-- Canadian Currency Weakens Toward Parity Versus Dollar as Retail Sales Drop
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-02-21T22:14:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/canadian-currency-weakens-toward-parity-versus-dollar-as-retail-sales-drop.html
Canada’s dollar weakened versus its
U.S. counterpart after data showed retail sales fell in December
and currencies of commodity-exporting nations slid on concern a
bailout hasn’t resolved  Greece ’s long-term debt crisis.  The Canadian currency fell to within half a cent of parity
with the greenback, which fluctuated against the euro on concern
 Europe  will require further political measures to resolve its
fiscal turmoil. U.S. stocks were little changed, and global
stocks declined.  “The risk-off environment is weakening the appeal of the
Canadian dollar,” said David Song, a currency analyst in  New
York  at DailyFX.com, the research unit of FXCM Inc., an online
currency-trading service. “The downtick in retail sales is
instilling a bearish outlook for the Canadian dollar as it damps
the prospects for future growth.”  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
waterfowl on the C$1 coin, depreciated 0.3 percent to 99.69
cents per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto, after touching as
low as 99.76 cents. One Canadian dollar buys $1.003. The loonie
has appreciated 0.6 percent this month versus the greenback,
underperforming nine of its 16 most-traded peers.  The currency will weaken to C$1.03 by the end of this
quarter and C$1.06 by the end of June, Osborne predicted.  Canada’s dollar fell for a fourth day against the euro,
weakening 0.3 percent to C$1.3193. The greenback rose 0.1
percent versus the shared currency, closing at $1.3234, after
strengthening 0.4 percent earlier and losing 0.4 percent.  Bonds Fall  Government bonds  dropped, pushing  two-year note  yields up
four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 1.11 percent.
They touched 1.12 percent, the highest level since Oct. 28. The
price of the 1 percent securities due in February 2014 increased
7 cents to C$99.79.  Retail sales declined 0.2 percent in December, falling for
the first time in five months, Statistics  Canada  data showed
today in Ottawa. That matched the median of 24 forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  The MSCI World Index of stocks in developed nations was
down 0.1 percent after declining earlier as much as 0.4 percent.
The gauge has gained 9.5 percent in 2012. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index was little changed after gaining earlier as corporate
earnings tempered concern Greece still faces turmoil.  The loonie weakened even as crude oil, Canada’s biggest
export, climbed to a nine-month high. Crude for March delivery
touched $106.07 a barrel in New York, the most since May.  Correlation Lost  “The historical correlation between oil and the Canadian
dollar has broken down recently,” said DailyFX.com’s Song.
“The Canadian dollar will move more with Canadian fundamentals
over the near term.”  The one-month correlation coefficient between crude oil and
the Canadian dollar was 0.45 today, down from 0.84 in October. A
reading of 1 indicates the measures move in lockstep.  The Australian and New Zealand dollars were worst
performers today among the U.S. currency’s 16 most-traded peers
tracked by Bloomberg. Both countries, like Canada, export raw
materials. The loonie fell versus nine.  European finance ministers approved 130 billion euros ($173
billion) in aid for Greece by tapping into European Central Bank
profits and coaxing investors into providing more debt relief to
shield the region from a default. Greece’s debt may still
balloon to 160 percent of gross domestic product in a worst-case
scenario, analysis by the  International Monetary Fund  and
European officials indicated.  “It makes it hard to see what good news could spark a
renewed upswing in risk sentiment,” said  David Watt , senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada’s RBC Capital
Markets unit in Toronto. “Domestic factors are still generally
secondary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Montreal at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  