-- Cancer-Drug Shortages Targeted by Stopgap U.S. Approvals
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-21T18:40:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/cancer-drug-shortages-targeted-by-stopgap-fda-approval-of-similar-products.html
Cancer-drug shortages that have
plagued U.S. hospitals are being targeted by  Food and Drug
Administration  decisions, announced today, giving generic-drug
makers clearance to provide stopgap replacements.  Use of the drugs Doxil, for treating ovarian cancer and
multiple myeloma, and methotrexate, for leukemia and tumors of
the breast and lung, will be bolstered by the decisions, the
agency said. The cancer drugs are among 220 types of medications
deemed to be in short supply in the U.S. by the American Society
of Health-System Pharmacists.  Caraco Pharmaceutical Laboratories Ltd. (CPD)  will import an
unapproved drug from  India  with the same active ingredient as
Doxil, made by New Brunswick, New Jersey-based  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) , according to a  letter  on the agency’s website. A
generic form of methotreaxate, made by  APP Pharmaceuticals Inc (APPX) .,
has received expedited approval from the agency and will be
available in March, the FDA said.  Temporary importation of unapproved foreign drugs is
considered “only in rare cases” when there is a shortage of a
treatment “that is critical to patients” and can’t be resolved
in a timely fashion with already approved drugs, the FDA said in
the  statement .  J&J alerted doctors in June about the Doxil shortage. The
drug is produced by a contract manufacturer that signaled it
would be getting out of the business over the next several
years, according to Doxil’s website. J&J identified an
alternative supplier and is transitioning over an extended
period of time.  India Import  Caraco, a generic-drug maker based in Detroit, will
temporarily import the drug Lipodox from its Mumbai, India-based
parent,  Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (SUNP) , the FDA said.
Lipodox has the same active ingredient as Doxil and is made in a
plant that has been inspected by the FDA, Sun Pharmaceutical
said in a letter to doctors posted on the FDA website.  Supplies of methotrexate began running low last year when
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH in Ingelheim,  Germany , shut its Ben
Venue Laboratories factory in Ohio after manufacturing flaws
there.  Lake Forest , Illinois-based  Hospira Inc. (HSP) , which also
makes methotrexate, didn’t have the capacity to keep up with
demand, Michael Ball, chief executive officer, said today. The
company is expediting shipment of 31,000 vials, enough to meet
one month of demand, to hospitals and clinics, the FDA said in
the statement.  Meeting Demand  Hospira also will release another 34,000 vials next week
that will meet the full market demand by mid-March and establish
a safety stock, Ball said. Hospira was able to make the
additional vials available by “scouring the globe” for FDA-
approved active ingredient being used by other companies that
make the medicine, Ball said.  President Barack Obama Oct. 31 directed U.S. regulators,
through an executive order, to gather information from drug
manufacturers about potential shortages.  The FDA has prevented 114 drug shortages since Obama signed
the executive order, FDA Commissioner  Margaret Hamburg  said
today. The agency released draft guidelines today that attempt
to help drugmakers understand when they should notify regulators
of an impending shortage.  Shortages of injectable cancer drugs such as  Roche Holding
AG (ROG) ’s Herceptin for breast tumors have created an opening for
dangerous unapproved versions to be sold to clinics and other
health-care providers, the FDA said last month. It warned
providers to avoid direct solicitations from unproven sources
and only buy drugs through approved channels.  In Congress, Democratic lawmakers including Senators  Jay Rockefeller  of  West Virginia  and  Tom Harkin  of Iowa and
Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland have pressed for
probes of so-called “gray market,” or third-party drug
resellers that some in the health-care industry have accused of
price gouging.  Hamburg backed requiring drugmakers to notify the FDA of
any interruption in production and giving the agency the ability
to enforce the mandate. U.S. Representatives  Diana DeGette ,
Democrat of Colorado, and Tom Rooney, Republican of Florida,
have introduced legislation requiring notification, with daily
fines of $10,000 for noncompliance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  