-- Cardinal Health Hit With DEA Suspension Order Over Painkiller Shipments
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-21T17:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/cardinal-health-hit-with-dea-suspension-order-over-painkiller-shipments.html
A  Cardinal Health Inc. (CAH)  distribution
facility in  Florida  posed a public safety threat by shipping
heavy volumes of prescription painkiller oxycodone to
pharmacies, according to the U.S. government.  An investigation by the Drug Enforcement Administration
found the company’s Lakeland, Florida, facility shipped a
“staggering” amount of oxycodone to four retail customers in
the state, including two CVS Caremark Corp. pharmacies, between
October 2008 and December 2011, according to documents the
agency filed earlier this month in U.S. District Court in
 Washington .  The DEA said it suspended the distribution facility’s
authority to ship controlled substances on Feb. 2 after
determining continued operations posed an imminent danger to the
public, the agency said.  “DEA’s investigation of Cardinal and its top four retail
customers revealed a staggeringly high and exponentially
increasing rate of oxycodone distribution from the Lakeland
facility,” the DEA said.  Cardinal, based in Dublin,  Ohio , sued the DEA after the
suspension order was issued and obtained a temporary restraining
order blocking enforcement of the suspension, according to court
papers. The suspension order required the Lakeland facility to
immediately halt shipment of all controlled substances to about
5,200 customer accounts, including pharmacies and hospitals
serving hundreds of thousands of patients, Cardinal said in
court papers.  Suspended Shipments  Cardinal said suspension is unnecessary because it stopped
distribution of controlled substances to the pharmacies
identified by the DEA, according to a court filing by the
company. It suspended distributions to two independent
pharmacies months ago and temporarily suspended shipment to the
two CVS pharmacies.  “Cardinal Health maintains a vigorous and robust anti-
diversion system, which has been described by the DEA’s own
inspectors and investigations as one of the best among wholesale
distributors nationwide,” the company said.  Debbie Mitchell, a spokeswoman for Cardinal, declined to
comment on the DEA action, citing pending litigation. The action
was reported earlier in the Wall Street Journal.  The DEA said in its court filing that the Lakeland facility
shipped about 50 times as much oxycodone to the four customers
that the average Florida pharmacy received from Cardinal. The
company repeatedly filled orders that exceeded volume thresholds
that it set, and orders flagged by Cardinal as suspicious were
released with little or no explanation why, the DEA said.  The case is Cardinal Health Inc. v. Eric Holder, 12-00185,
U.S. District Court for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in  New York  at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 