-- Caterpillar North America Sales Expand on Replacement Demand
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-02-21T16:41:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/caterpillar-north-america-sales-expand-on-replacement-demand.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the largest
construction and mining-equipment maker, said North American
retail sales in the past three months rose 47 percent from a
year ago as customers replaced old machinery.  Global sales in the three months ending January rose 27
percent from a year earlier, the Peoria, Illinois-based company
said in a  filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission today. The gain in  North America  was less than the 51
percent increase reported for the three months through December.  The North American sales increase was “still pretty
strong,” considering January is usually a slower month, Larry De Maria, a New York-based analyst for William Blair & Co., who
has an “outperform rating,” said in an interview today. North
American sales “continue to have solid momentum and display
strength driven largely by replacement buying,” he said.  Machine sales through January increased at a slower pace
than in the three months ending in December in all of the
company’s reporting regions except for  Latin America , according
to the filing. Caterpillar releases three-month rolling retail
sales reports provided by its independent dealers each month.  Asia-Pacific machine retail sales expanded 25 percent
through January, down from 31 percent in the three months
through December. The Chinese Lunar New Year celebration
probably slowed sales in the region last month, De Maria said.  Caterpillar Chief Financial Officer Ed Rapp on Feb. 2 said
he expected a “tailwind” in the U.S. and  Europe  on replacement
demand as the economy recovers. North America is the company’s
largest region by sales followed by Asia-Pacific, Europe,  Africa 
and the Middle East.  The company on Jan. 26 forecast 2012 earnings will rise 25
percent to a record $9.25 a share. Sales will reach as much as
$72 billion this year, up 20 percent from $60.14 billion last
year, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 