-- Chavez Says He Needs Another Operation
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-02-21T21:54:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/chavez-says-he-ll-undergo-another-operation.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
said that he needs another operation in his battle with cancer
after doctors found a new lesion, just eight months before the
country’s presidential election.  Tests taken in Cuba in the past few days showed a lesion of
about 2 centimeters in diameter in the same area where a tumor
was removed in June, Chavez, 57, said today on state television
from his home state of Barinas. Doctors will remove the growth
to see if it is malignant or not, he said.  Chavez is preparing to begin campaigning for the Oct. 7
election in his bid to extend his 13-year rule until 2019. The
need for another operation and questions over his true condition
may swing undecided voters to the opposition’s younger
candidate, Henrique Capriles Radonski,  Boris Segura , a
strategist at Nomura Securities International in  New York , said
today in a phone interview.  “Chavez is the favorite to win the election if he’s
healthy, but this relapse and others going forward will weaken
his chances,” Segura said. “If his health status isn’t clear,
I think that will be a headwind on the elections.”  The president spoke today in public for the first time
since Feb. 17 and after a columnist for El Universal, Nelson
Bocaranda,  said yesterday  that Chavez was flown to Cuba for
medical tests to review the need for another operation.  Venezuelan bonds rallied today on the prospect of a change
in government and policies that have fueled the region’s highest
inflation rate and dried up investment.  ‘Negative News’  “I totally deny that I have metastasis in the liver or
that the cancer has spread throughout my body and that I’m
dying,” Chavez said today on state television alongside his
brother and daughter. “There will be another surgery. I regret
having to give this negative news during Carnival but I’ve been
forced to due to the rumors.”  Chavez had two operations last year in Cuba after an
undisclosed form of cancer was discovered in June. Since then,
he has received chemotherapy and said that he is “free of
illness.”  The opposition chose Capriles, a 39-year-old governor of
Miranda state, to challenge Chavez in October after holding a
primary election on Feb. 19. Capriles, who says that he will
maintain popular social programs while gradually unwinding state
control over the economy, says that he wishes Chavez a long life
to see the changes coming to  Venezuela .  Bonds Rally  The yield on Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds
maturing in 2027 fell 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage point,
to 11.66 percent at 2:45 p.m. in New York, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 1.38 cents to 82.88
cents on the dollar.  The extra yield that investors demand to own Venezuelan
debt rather than  U.S. Treasuries  fell 31 basis points to 10.22
percent, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global index.
That’s the lowest since May 2010, and compares with a drop of
nine basis points on average in  Latin America  today.  Chavez has increased his public appearances since returning
from medical tests in Cuba in October while his hair grew back
after halting chemotherapy treatment. In January he spoke for
9.5 hours during an address to the National Assembly, his
longest speech ever.  The columnist Bocaranda, citing unidentified sources in
Cuba, said that doctors have recommended that Chavez stop using
steroids that may have made him appear healthier.  “The probability that President Chavez could not be a
candidate has increased after this announcement,” Barclays
Capital analysts Alejandro Arreaza and  Alejandro Grisanti  wrote
in a note to clients. The election could also be postponed,
though no later than the end of the year, they said.  Chavez said that he’ll provide more information tomorrow
after meeting with his doctors and government officials.  During the time that he was recovering from surgery in Cuba
in June, Chavez signed laws from  Havana  and appeared in taped
videos broadcast on state television.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 