-- Chavez Media Say Rival Capriles Backs Plots Ranging From Nazis to Zionists
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-02-21T04:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/chavez-media-say-rival-capriles-backs-plots-ranging-from-nazis-to-zionists.html
Venezuela’s state media has accused
opposition presidential nominee Henrique Capriles Radonski of
offenses ranging from participating in a Zionist conspiracy to
joining a Nazi-inspired effort to wipe out blacks and the poor.  An election on Oct. 7 will be a choice between President  Hugo Chavez ’s socialist revolution and “international Zionism
which threatens to destroy the planet,” according to an  article 
published on the website of Radio Nacional de Venezuela a day
after Capriles won a Feb. 12 opposition primary.  The attacks, which were condemned by the Simon Wiesenthal
Center, are a taste of what’s to come as Chavez faces his
biggest challenge yet after 13 years in power, said Carlos
Romero, a political analyst at the Universidad Central de
Venezuela. Capriles, a descendent of a Jewish immigrant, won the
primary by a 34-percentage-point margin over his nearest rival,
pushing down bond yields on optimism he may defeat Chavez and
introduce market-friendly policies.  “They’re going to do everything possible to obstruct the
opposition’s campaign,” Romero said in a phone interview from
Caracas.  While the attacks on the 39-year-old governor of Miranda
state have increased in intensity since the primary, they began
even before it.  On Feb. 10, Mario Silva, host of a late-night debate
program aired on state-owned Venezolana de Television, or VTV,
accused Capriles of being caught by police performing oral sex
in a car with another man in 2000. Silva said Capriles had used
his influence to force police to drop indecency charges stemming
from the incident.  Piece of Paper  The only support presented for the allegations was a piece
of paper that Silva waved in front of the cameras and said was a
police report on the incident. Capriles on Feb. 15 denied the
allegations and said the police report, which has circulated via
e-mail in Venezuela, was false.  When asked whether a police report existed, and if so
whether it could be released, the Baruta Police declined to
comment.  In a speech on national television Feb. 15, Chavez referred
to the unmarried Capriles as “Mrs. Bourgeois.”  Investors reacted positively to the primary. The yield on
Venezuela’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due in 2027 fell 30
basis points to 11.80 percent, the lowest since April 2010, in
 New York  on the first day of trading after Capriles’ victory.
The country’s 5-year credit default swaps fell to the lowest
since September 2008.  Casting Doubt  Chavez’s allies have cast doubt on the validity of the
primary, saying the ballot count of 3 million was too high for
the voting system to manage in one day.  The  Supreme Court  on Feb. 14 ordered the opposition
alliance to hand over the voter lists to investigate alleged
irregularities, sparking concern it would be used by the
government to discriminate against participants in the primary
by denying them jobs in the public sector. The alliance said it
had already burned the registry to protect people’s anonymity.  Chavez  won  the last presidential election in 2006 against
then-Zulia state Governor Manuel Rosales with 63 percent to 37
percent.  Since then, polls show his popularity has fallen as a two-
year recession, the fastest inflation in the world, and
shortages of basic staples such as milk and cooking oil have
beset his administration.  Chavez was supported by 47.3 percent of those surveyed in a
December poll by Caracas-based Consultores 21, while an
unspecified opposition candidate had 44.9 percent. The poll was
published by  Barclays Capital  in a note to clients Feb. 2 that
didn’t say when it was conducted or the margin of error.  ‘Primitive’ Strategy  Venezuela’s  economy  grew 4.2 percent in 2011 following two
years of contraction while consumer prices climbed 26 percent in
January from a year earlier, the fastest pace among 78 economies
tracked by Bloomberg.  “The attacks form part of a primitive political strategy
to discredit the candidate,” said Colette Capriles, a political
analyst at the Simon Bolivar University in Caracas who is a
distant relative of the candidate. “The government was
surprised by what happened in the primary and is reacting
reflexively.”  An article published Feb. 13 on the website of Radio
Nacional, titled “The Enemy is Zionism,” linked Capriles with
the Jewish nationalist movement because of a meeting he held
with members of the Confederation of Israeli Associations of
 Venezuela , the main umbrella group of the country’s 12,000-
strong Jewish community.  Wiesenthal Center  Members of CAIV met with all five candidates for the
presidential primaries between November and January, according
to a  statement  published on its website, which also has a
section dedicated to Zionism. In the meeting with CAIV, Capriles
spoke of his family origins and what his policies would be if
elected president, according to the statement.  The Los Angeles-based Simon Wiesenthal Center, a group that
fights against discrimination, said in a Feb. 17  statement  that
it had written to Chavez to ask him to prevent anti-Semitic
attacks on Capriles and “hatemongering” by the Venezuelan
state media.  Chavez has angered members of Venezuela’s Jewish community
by cultivating ties with  Iran ’s President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad ,
who has called for  Israel  to be wiped off the map. Chavez broke
off diplomatic relations with the Jewish state in 2009 to
protest its military incursion into the  Gaza Strip  to halt
rocket attacks by Hamas, which has been branded a terrorist
group by the U.S. and the European Union.  ‘Neo-Nazi Sect’  Chavez, who in 2009 called the Israeli government
“genocidal,” has repeatedly denied being anti-Semitic. Still,
Jewish groups have accused him of inciting violence against
Venezuela’s Jews through speeches like one he gave in 2004
comparing the country’s opposition to “wandering Jews.”  Another  media report , aired Feb. 13 on state channel VTV,
said Capriles was a member of a Catholic group called Tradition,
Family and Prosperity, which it described as a “neo-Nazi sect”
that sought to assassinate Pope  John Paul II  and “eliminate
blacks, mestizos, communists and the poor.” The report didn’t
say what evidence it had to support its claim.  The worldwide lay Catholic movement was started in  Brazil 
in the 1960s to defend against moral threats that, according to
the website of its U.S. affiliate, include gay marriage,
abortion and  Dan Brown ’s 2003 bestselling mystery “The Da Vinci
Code.”  Calls to Chavez’s United Socialist Party of Venezuela went
unanswered. Capriles’ press department didn’t immediately
respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the accusations.  ‘Low-Life Pig’  Capriles, whose Jewish grandfather fled Nazi persecution in
 Poland  and founded the local unit of  East Hanover , New Jersey-
based Nabisco Inc., has responded to the attacks by playing up
his Catholic faith, giving thanks for his victory in the primary
at a church on Margarita island.  Chavez himself called Capriles in appearances last week on
state TV a “low-life pig” and compared him to former French
presidential candidate Jean Marie Le Pen, who favors clamping
down on immigrants.  Capriles, who has pledged to maintain social programs for
the poor and only gradually unwind state control over the
economy, is hiding his true political colors in order to capture
votes, Chavez said.  “Now Mrs. Bourgeois is going round flirting with the
chavista people,” Chavez said in comments broadcast Feb. 15 on
state TV. “Who’s going to believe you, bourgeoisie, if we know
you so well?”  Attacks on Capriles aren’t new. In 2009, government
supporters painted a black-and-red swastika on the wall of his
state government headquarters, saying Capriles was trying to
dismantle some of Chavez’s social programs in the state,
Caracas-based newspaper El Nacional reported.  Capriles has pledged to conduct a non-confrontational
campaign.  “It doesn’t bother me because people know I’m an open
book,” Capriles said Feb. 15 in comments broadcast on Caracas-
based radio station Union Radio. “Let them continue attacking
me because the more they do it, the more people join my side.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 