-- Chelsea Therapeutics Northera Shouldn’t Be Approved on Safety, FDA Says
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-21T21:08:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/chelsea-therapeutics-northera-shouldn-t-be-approved-on-safety-fda-says.html
Chelsea Therapeutics International
Ltd. (CHTP) ’s drug to treat a condition that can cause dizziness in
people with nervous system disorders may be unsafe and shouldn’t
be approved, U.S. regulators said. The company’s shares fell.  The medicine, called Northera, lacks adequate data it
works,  Food and Drug Administration  staff said today in a
report. Agency advisers are set to meet Feb. 23 on whether the
agency should approved the drug, chemically known as droxidopa.
If so, it would be the first product marketed by the  Charlotte ,
North Carolina-based company.  The FDA had previously expressed concern about the length
of trials and reports of a life-threatening neurological
disorder that may be linked to the drug, Chief Executive Officer
Simon Pedder said in a Feb. 13  statement . Northera would treat a
condition that causes  blood pressure  to drop within three
minutes of standing up, Chelsea Therapeutics said.  “On the basis of the safety concerns compounded by absence
of evidence of durability of effect,” the drug shouldn’t be
approved at this time, the report said.  Chelsea Therapeutics fell 21 percent to $2.64 at 4 p.m. New
York time. The company’s shares have fallen 22 percent in the
past 12 months before today.  Neurogenic Orthostatic Hypotension  About 180,000 patients suffer from the blood pressure drop
known as neurogenic orthostatic hypotension in the U.S., Keith Schmidt, Chelsea Therapeutics vice president of sales and
marketing said on an earnings call Nov. 2. The FDA is scheduled
to make a decision on approval by March 28.  Northera is available in  Japan  as part of a marketing
agreement with  Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. (4506)  and generates
annual revenue of $50 million, Chelsea Therapeutics said on its
website. The FDA is concerned that the drug has been associated
with reports of a life-threatening neurological disorder known
as neuroleptic malignant syndrome in patients in Japan, the
company said. No incidents of the disorder have been reported in
the company’s studies, Chelsea Therapeutics said in the Feb. 13
statement.  The company attempted to determine whether Northera works
based on patients’ assessment of their symptoms and discovered
researchers should have asked about different symptoms,
including patients’ ability to make posture changes, Chelsea
Therapeutics said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  