-- Chelsea May Bring in Benitez as Interim Coach, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-02-21T11:21:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/chelsea-may-bring-in-benitez-as-interim-coach-mail-says-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers with clickable links to the Web.  Chelsea Interim  Former Liverpool coach  Rafael Benitez  may become an interim
replacement for Andre Villas-Boas at Chelsea should billionaire
owner Roman Abramovich decide to fire the Portuguese, the Daily
Mail said.  Chelsea is fifth in the Premier League, which means it’s
not on course to participate in the  Champions League  next
season.  Abramovich has employed seven different coaches in nine
years at the west London club, and is increasing pressure on
Villas-Boas, who is in his first year at Chelsea, the newspaper
said.  Gunners Talks  Robin van Persie , the Premier League’s top scorer, is
willing to open talks on a new contract with Arsenal,  the Daily
Telegraph said.   The Dutchman’s contract runs out after next season, and the
north London club is ready to pay him a “substantial” fee to
renew and raise his current 80,000 pounds ($126,600) a week
salary, the newspaper said.  Van Persie  has said he doesn’t want to talk about a new
pact until after the season while the Gunners try to finish in
the top four to qualify for the Champions League again, the
Telegraph said.  Torres Move  West Ham attempted to bring in Chelsea striker Fernando Torres on loan last month,  the Mail said .  Hammers owner  David Sullivan  said his club offered to take
the player, who has struggled to score since joining the Blues
for 50 million pounds last year, for a month, the newspaper
said. Chelsea rejected the offer, saying “not at this moment in
time,” the newspaper said.  Tevez Apology  Carlos Tevez  will apologize this week to Manchester City
manager,  the Manchester Evening News said.   The pair will meet this week to settle their differences
and get the player back into the team, the newspaper said.  The striker hasn’t played since a disagreement about coming
on as a substitute in a City match against  Bayern Munich  in
September. He spent three months without permission in
Argentina.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  