-- Chesapeake Profit Rises as Shift From Gas to Oil Pays Off
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-02-21T23:56:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/chesapeake-profit-rises-as-shift-away-from-gas-to-oil-pays-off.html
Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second-
biggest U.S. natural-gas producer, said fourth-quarter profit
more than doubled as the company boosted oil output amid record
crude prices.  Net income was $429 million, or 63 cents per share,
compared with $180 million, or 28 cents, a year earlier, the
Oklahoma City-based company said today in a statement. Excluding
one-time gains and losses, per-share profit was one cent lower
than the average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  is seeking $12
billion from sales of  oil fields , drilling rigs and pipelines
this year to close a funding gap caused by tumbling gas prices.
So far, Chesapeake isn’t making the transition away from gas
production toward more crude as quickly as expected, said Mike
Kelly, an analyst at Global Hunter Securities in Houston.  “Investors want reassurances that they still are set to
hit their production targets,” Kelly, who has a “buy” rating
on the shares, said today in a telephone interview. “Any color
they can provide to delineate how they intend to make that
transition will be well received.”  Focus on Oil  McClendon has been shifting his focus to oil as new,
intensive drilling techniques that opened previously
impenetrable rock formations created a glut of North American
gas, depressing prices for the furnace and factory fuel. During
the fourth quarter, output of crude and gas liquids such as
propane rose 13 percent compared with the prior three-month
period, less than the 20 percent increase Kelly expected.  The statement was released after the close of regular U.S.
stock trading. Chesapeake fell 9 cents to $24.62 at the close in
 New York . The stock has 17 buy ratings from analysts, 16 holds
and four sells.  Without this year’s planned asset sales, Chesapeake faces a
$4 billion shortfall between cash flow and exploration costs,
 RBC Capital Markets  said in a Feb. 13 note to clients. The
company’s capital spending exceeded cash from operations in
every quarter since October 2003, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Chesapeake is also saddled with a  net debt load  that is
twice the size of  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ’s, a company with a market
value 27 times larger. During the third quarter of 2011, as U.S.
gas futures were dropping 16 percent, Chesapeake swelled its net
debt by 18 percent to $11.678 billion.  Asset Sales  Chesapeake raised $16.3 billion from asset sales since July
2008, equivalent to almost half the company’s total revenue
during that period, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Chesapeake said today that it has curtailed about 1 billion
cubic feet of daily gas production in response to the expanding
supply glut and depressed prices. The cuts occurred primarily in
the U.S. shale regions known as the Haynesville and Barnett, the
company said.  Chesapeake plans to reduce the number of rigs drilling for
dry gas by 68 percent to 24 by the end of next month, according
to the statement. The company is slashing its dry-gas drilling
budget by 70 percent this year to about $900 million, the lowest
since 2005.  The number of rigs searching for crude and gas liquids will
jump to 133 this year from 92 in 2011, the company said.
Chesapeake plans to escalate liquids output to 150,000 barrels a
day this year and more than 200,000 barrels a day in 2013,
according to the statement.  Liquids Content  Oil and gas liquids accounted for 18 percent of
Chesapeake’s overall production during the October-to-December
period, up from 12 percent a year earlier, according to today’s
statement.  Chesapeake is sensitive to falling gas prices, with every
25-cent decline reducing the company’s  cash flow  by 5.4 percent,
 Brian Gibbons , a credit analyst at CreditSights, said in a Feb.
7 note to clients.  Gas declined to a 10-year low of $2.231 per million British
thermal units on Jan. 23, after plunging 41 percent in 2011.
Crude averaged $94.06 a barrel during the final three months of
last year, a record for any fourth quarter.  Exxon, based in Irving,  Texas , is the largest U.S. gas
producer, according to the Natural Gas Supply Association, a
Washington-based industry group whose members produce about one-
third of the nation’s gas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  