-- China Would Regulate UN Carbon Credits at Home, Exchange Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-21T04:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/china-would-regulate-un-carbon-credits-at-home-exchange-says.html
China  probably won’t allow United
Nations carbon credits in its cap-and-trade program unless they
are approved by a domestic regulator, according to an official
at the  Shanghai Environment & Energy Exchange.   China likely will develop its own registration and
verification process for so-called offset credits, which would
be eligible for compliance with the country’s emission-reduction
quotas, Li Jin, a researcher at the exchange, said at a carbon
conference in Shanghai. The bourse is helping to design
 emissions trading  in China’s financial center.  “It will be something like a local version of the United
Nations Executive Board,” which oversees the Clean Developments
Mechanism, known as the CDM, Li said. “Projects approved under
the CDM will be easier to be used as domestic offsets, but they
will still need to go through the local process.”  The surging supply of offsets from the CDM and uncertain
demand for its credits helped drive prices in the European Union
to four-year lows last month. That market, the world’s biggest,
banned offsets from new projects in most emerging nations
including China after 2012. China has supplied 59 percent of all
credits issued since 2005, according to UN data.  China, the world’s biggest energy consumer, last month
required seven cities and provinces including  Shanghai , Beijing
and Guangdong to set emission caps as part of its plans to start
pilot programs for carbon trading. It aims to cut the nation’s
carbon dioxide emissions by as much as 17 percent per unit of
gross domestic product in its five-year plan through 2015.  Australia, China  Australia and China itself may replace Europe as main
buyers of UN carbon credits for post-2012 projects from China,
according to the International Emissions Trading Association.  Future demand for the new carbon credits “won’t come from
Europe unless the Europeans raise their target for reducing
emissions, but I don’t think that’s realistic considering the
current state of the economy in  Europe ,” Jeff Swartz,
international policy director of the Geneva-based association
known as IETA, said at the Shanghai conference. “So the source
of demand might come from Australia after 2015 because it will
use international offsets and they might come from China.”  Chinese policy-makers are likely to tailor so-called
Certified Emission Reduction credits from the CDM program to
suit its domestic emission targets, Swartz said.  “You have all of these credits there in your backyard, and
there is no buyer for them, and you have a reduction target in
the country,” he said. “Why not use the CERs, why not take
advantage of the system which is proven. ”  First Time  Australia  passed a law last year that will force almost 500
of the largest companies in the country to pay for their
greenhouse-gas emissions for the first time. The law gives
emitters the option of using UN credits to offset as much as
half of their Australian emissions by paying for pollution-
abatement projects in  developing countries  starting in 2015.  “China is Australia’s largest trading partner, and
Australia is the world’s largest exporter of coal,” Swartz said.
“It makes sense for Australian companies to come to China and
starts to buy CERs from Chinese projects,” he said.  UN emission credits for delivery in December fell 5.3
percent to 4.66 euros ($6.18), snapping four days of gains on
the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London . They are down 60
percent from a year ago on concern about an oversupply of
permits and weak demand from the EU as it struggles with its
debt crisis and the possibility of another recession.  EU carbon permits also fell on ICE, dropping 5.4 percent to
8.77 euros on ICE. They are down 45 percent from a year ago.  -- Jing Yang , with assistance from Mathew Carr in London. Editors:
 Mike Anderson , Alessandro Vitelli.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jing Yang in Shanghai at 
 jyang251@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mike Anderson at 
 manderson34@bloomberg.net  