-- China Soybean Imports to Jump by 14% on Demand, Oil World Says
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-02-21T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/china-soybean-imports-to-jump-by-14-on-demand-oil-world-says.html
China  will import 14 percent more
soybeans in the first three months of 2012 than a year earlier
because of declining oilseed output and rising demand, Hamburg-
based Oil World said.  The Asian nation will import 12.5 million metric tons of
soybeans from January through March this year, the oilseed
researcher said in a report. Shipments to China totaled 4.12
million tons in January, up from 3.77 million tons in December,
according to the report. Soybean exporters in the U.S., expected
to be the second-biggest shipper behind Brazil in 2011-12, sold
2.923 million tons to China in the biggest one-day deal on
record, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Feb. 17.  “China has stepped up purchases of U.S. soybeans and will
have to do more in the weeks and months ahead,” Oil World said.
“Due to the severe crop losses in  South America , China has
become more dependent on U.S. soybeans. In China, declining
oilseed production and rising demand have further widened the
production deficit, which must be filled with higher imports.”  Soybean futures have gained 6 percent this year, partly on
speculation that demand from China will increase and as dry
weather has cut South American production.  China said on Feb. 15 it would buy 8.62 million tons of
soybeans valued at $4.3 billion from the U.S. Chinese importers
COFCO and the Chinese National Grain Corporation bought oilseeds
from  Bunge (BG)  Ltd.,  Archer-Daniels-Midland (ADM)  Co. and Cargill Inc.,
Oil World said. More sales may be announced as China is planning
for deals to total 12 million tons, the researcher said.  “Additional agreements are likely to be signed soon,” Oil
World said. “Our latest analysis confirms that Chinese soybean
imports are going to rise sizably and a further increase is
likely to occur in April through September.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 