-- China to Overtake U.S. as Largest Trading Nation, HSBC Says
-- B y   S o p h i e   L e u n g
-- 2012-02-21T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/china-to-overtake-u-s-as-largest-trading-nation-hsbc-says.html
China  will overtake the U.S. as the
world’s largest trading nation by 2016, as intra-Asian commerce
and rising demand from emerging markets boost shipments,
according to  HSBC Holdings Plc. (HSBA)   Trade in China and the Asia-Pacific region will grow at an
annualized pace almost twice as fast as the world average over
the next five years, driven by shipments within the region and
expanded ties with  Latin America , the Middle East and North
Africa, HSBC said in a global trade report issued today.  Demand from traditional consumer markets in the West is
expected to slow as the evolving European debt crisis threatens
the global outlook. China, the world’s second-biggest economy,
will stimulate growth with fiscal stimulus and an acceleration
in infrastructure projects, raising its imports of commodities
from Latin America and the Middle East, HSBC said.  “The world’s largest businesses are continuing to broaden
their supply chains across Asia-Pacific” that will boost trade
within the region, Simon Constantinides, HSBC’s regional head of
global trade, Asia-Pacific, said in an interview in  Hong Kong .
“As China expands its global reach, especially into  South
America  and Africa, its substantial energy demand and higher
manufacturing output will drive strong imports and exports
within these sectors.”  Largest Exporter  HSBC estimates the value of China’s  trade  will rise at an
annualized rate of 6.6 percent over the next five years,
compared with 6.5 percent gains for  Asia  and 3.8 percent for the
world, according to today’s reports.  “The developed markets will slow,” Constantinides said.
“Everybody is going to trade with China.”  China’s share of global imports and exports will increase
to 12.3 percent in 2026 from 9.8 percent last year, the bank
estimates. The nation overtook Germany as the world’s largest
exporter in 2009.  Vietnam and  Bangladesh  will become the region’s top
emerging trade partners over the next five years for ready-made
garments, textiles and rice, while Peru, Norway and Brazil will
become major partners for trade in iron ore, soya and oil, HSBC
said.  Printing and machinery will become the fastest emerging
industry in the Asia-Pacific as global supply chains locate in
the region, evidence of a shift toward higher value production,
HSBC said in its report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophie Leung in Hong Kong at 
 sleung59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  