-- China Copper Imports Drop for First Time in Eight Months
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-21T07:54:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/china-stocks-drop-for-first-time-in-three-days-as-oil-hurts-profit-outlook.html
China’s stocks  rose to the highest
in 11 weeks after European governments reached an agreement on a
Greek aid package and investors speculated the Chinese
government will adopt more measures to ease a credit crunch.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd.  and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (939)  led gains for lenders after money-market
rates declined. Jiangxi Copper Co. climbed 1.3 percent after
European finance ministers awarded 130 billion euros ($173
billion) in Greek aid. Gansu Qilianshan Cement Group Co. jumped
to the highest in almost three months, pacing gains among
companies based in western China after the government approved a
plan to accelerate the region’s development.  “There will be more policy easing and more liquidity will
released into the economy,” said Wei Wei, an analyst at West
China Securities Co. in  Shanghai . “It still remains to be seen
if these policies will be effective in stemming a slowdown in
the economy.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  climbed 17.8 points, or 0.8
percent, to 2,381.43 at the close, the highest since Dec. 1. The
 CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  rose 0.9 percent to 2,562.45. The Shanghai
Composite has rebounded 8.3 percent this year on expectations
the government will ease monetary policies to bolster economic
growth that cooled to the slowest pace in 2 1/2 years in the
fourth quarter of 2011. The measure trades at 9.8 times
estimated earnings, compared with a record low of 8.9 times on
Jan. 6, according to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Flash PMI  Concerns about China’s economic slowdown intensified after
January data showed exports and imports falling for the first
time in two years, new lending was the lowest for that month in
five years and money supply grew the least in more than a
decade. China’s expansion may be cut almost in half if  Europe ’s
debt crisis worsens, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a
Feb. 6 report.  HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit Economics are scheduled to
release their preliminary manufacturing index for this month,
known as the Flash PMI, at 10:30 a.m. tomorrow. It was at 48.8
in January, below the 50 threshold for expansion.  Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, rose
1.3 percent to 26.84 yuan.  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. , the
listed unit of nation’s biggest maker of the lightweight metal,
advanced 0.4 percent to 7.27 yuan.  Greece won a second bailout after European governments
wrung concessions from private investors and tapped into
European Central Bank profits to shield the euro area from a
precedent-setting default.  Greek Bailout  Finance ministers awarded 130 billion euros in aid,
engineered the central bank profits transfer and coaxed investor
representatives into providing more debt relief in an exchange
offer meant to tide  Greece  past a bond redemption next month.  Vice President  Xi Jinping  told Irish political leaders that
China is “considering more involvement in helping address the
European debt issue through the European Financial Stability
Facility, the European Stability Mechanism and other channels,”
according to comments aired by Dublin-based broadcaster RTE
yesterday.  Europe is China’s biggest overseas market, making up about
18 percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to
Shenyin & Wanguo Securities Co.  China will raise export tax rebates for some goods for the
first time since 2009 this year, the  China Daily  reported,
citing Vice Commerce Minister Zhong Shan.  Export Rebates  The increase will be implemented at an “appropriate time”
and that will be applied to “specific categories of goods”
including some labor intensive products, the newspaper said. Tax
rebate rates were “in general” increased to 13.5 percent in
2009 from 9.8 percent before the global financial crisis,
according to the newspaper.  China  will continue to implement proactive fiscal and
prudent monetary policies this year as it adjusts the policies
“slightly” to make them more targeted, flexible and forward
looking, the official Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday,
citing a statement from a meeting attended by members of the
Politburo.  ICBC, the biggest Chinese lender, rose 1.4 percent to 4.46
yuan. Rival Construction Bank advanced 0.6 percent to 4.88 yuan.
The seven-day repurchase rate, a gauge of funding availability
in the financial system, fell 12 basis points to 5.25 percent as
of 3:26 p.m. in Shanghai, according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center. One basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Easing Liquidity  China cut the amount of cash that banks must set aside as
reserves for the second time in three months to spur lending.
Reserve requirements will fall by 50 basis points from Feb. 24,
the People’s Bank of China said on Feb. 18.  “On the margin, policy will ease slightly and that will
provide an additional boost to Chinese equity markets.”
Manpreet Gill, senior investment strategist at Standard
Chartered Plc, said on Bloomberg Television today.  The People’s Bank of China won’t sell any repurchase
contracts today, according to a trader at a primary dealer
required to bid at the auctions.  Qilianshan Cement climbed 4.8 percent to 10.83 yuan, the
highest close since Nov. 29.  Sichuan Road & Bridge Co. (600039)  rose 3.9
percent to 7.82 yuan. Xinjiang Korla Pear Co. jumped 5 percent
to 9.20 yuan.  The government plans to put 15,000 kilometers (9,323 miles)
of new rail lines into service in western China in the five
years through 2015, Xinhua reported yesterday, citing a State
Council statement. The economies of the western region will
expand at a faster pace than the national average in the period
ending 2015, according to the statement.  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) ,  Asia ’s biggest oil
refiner, lost 0.7 percent to 7.55 yuan. Crude futures for March
delivery, which expire today, advanced as much as $2.20 to
$105.44 in intra-day trading, the highest price since May 5.  “Higher international crude prices certainly sparked some
concern among investors that Sinopec may face big losses in
refining,” Shi Yan, a Shanghai-based analyst with UOB-Kay Hian
Ltd., said yesterday. “It serves as a reminder on how
vulnerable Sinopec is to fluctuations in crude prices.”  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  