-- China Buys Least Iran Crude in Five Months Amid Price Talks
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-21T10:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/china-iran-crude-imports-at-five-month-low-on-price-talks.html
China , the  biggest buyer  of Iranian
crude, cut purchases to the lowest level in five months in
January even as its total oil imports rose after trading
companies in the two nations failed to renew supply contracts.  Imports from  Iran  fell to 2.08 million metric tons, or
about 493,000 barrels a day, according to Bloomberg calculations
from data released today by the Beijing-based General
Administration of Customs. That’s the lowest rate since August
and 14 percent less than the average 575,000 barrels bought
daily in December. China’s total crude imports rose 6.8 percent
from a month earlier to 5.5 million barrels a day.  The decline increases pressure on Iran as it seeks
alternative buyers for its crude amid U.S. and European Union
sanctions imposed because of its nuclear program. China 
International United Petroleum & Chemical Co., or Unipec, the
nation’s biggest oil trader, was still negotiating 2012 term
supplies last month after the 2011 contract lapsed, two people
with knowledge of the talks said Jan. 10.  “The drop in imports appears to be part of the price
dispute that Unipec is having with the National Iranian Oil
Co.,”  David Wech , head of research at JBC Energy GmbH, said by
telephone from Vienna. China may have held back purchases from
Iran to get better prices during the term-supply talks, he said.  2012 Supply Talks  Terms for crude supplies to China this year have now mostly
been agreed, three people with knowledge of the talks said
today. Some details of the contract between Iran and Unipec are
still to be worked out, according to two of the people, who
declined to be identified because the information is
confidential.  The sanctions against Iran have strengthened the bargaining
position of China, which buys about a fifth of the country’s
crude exports, according to the IEA report. The EU will ban oil
imports from Iran starting July 1 in an attempt to halt the
Islamic republic’s nuclear program. U.S. President  Barack Obama 
signed a bill on Dec. 31 that denies access to the U.S.
financial system to any foreign bank that conducts business with
the Central Bank of Iran.  China paid an average $110.47 for each barrel of crude it
bought from the Persian Gulf nation in January, according to
Bloomberg calculations from the customs data. That’s 3 percent
more than the $107.28 a barrel paid in 2011. The spot price of
the Iranian Heavy crude grade averaged $112.71 a barrel in
January, 6.3 percent more than last year, according to  data
compiled  by Bloomberg. The price was $118.90 today.  Sanctions Criticism  China, which counted Iran as its third-biggest supplier of
crude last year after  Saudi Arabia  and  Angola , opposes trade
restrictions against Iran and said sanctions on its oil exports
aren’t “constructive,” Xinhua News Agency reported Jan. 26,
citing comments from the Ministry of  Foreign Affairs .  Iran fell behind  Russia  to become China’s fourth-biggest
supplier in January, the data today showed. Russian shipments to
China rose 22 percent to 2.47 million tons from December, while
Saudi volumes climbed 1.4 percent to 4.82 million and supplies
from Angola slid 2.1 percent to 2.79 million.  China has been taking more seaborne East Siberian Pacific
Ocean crude cargoes from Russia and increasing oil deliveries
via a pipeline that started in January last year, according to
Wech. The pipeline will supply 15 million tons of Russian crude
a year to China from 2011 to 2030, Xinhua said.  Imports from  Libya  gained 158 percent to 736,000 tons, the
highest level since March, before an uprising against Muammar Qadaffi curbed that nation’s shipments.  Imports Rebounding  Net crude imports this year may rise 5.9 percent from a
year earlier to 266 million tons, or 5.3 million barrels a day,
according to estimates released this month by China National
Petroleum Corp., the nation’s largest oil and gas producer. That
would be the slowest growth in at least six years.  Iran will increase the volume of crude it ships to China
“soon” as the two countries have agreed on pricing and sales
methods for an oil contract, Iran’s state-run Mehr news agency
reported Feb. 16, citing an unidentified official at the
National Iranian Oil Co.  China bought an additional 200,000 barrels a day of oil
from Iran in “recent months” and may continue to increase
imports, Didier Houssin, director of energy markets and security
at the IEA, said at a conference in  London  yesterday.  “China’s oil imports from Iran will stabilize,” Hong
Kong-based  Gordon Kwan , head of regional energy research at
Mirae Asset Securities Ltd., said in an e-mail. “They’re
unlikely to jump in February during Xi Jinping’s visit to the
U.S.” China’s Vice President Xi met with President Obama during
a U.S. visit from Feb. 13 to Feb. 18.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Winnie Zhu in Shanghai at 
 wzhu4@bloomberg.net ;
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  