-- Citigroup Stakes, U.S. Mutuals, EFSF Bonds: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-21T13:09:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/citigroup-stakes-u-s-mutuals-efsf-bond-program-compliance.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-biggest
U.S. bank by assets, will let managers of its hedge funds own
part of the business ahead of rules that limit shareholders’
cash in the unit, Chief Operating Officer  John Havens  said.  Employees in the  Citi Capital Advisors  division, or CCA,
will get a “significant” stake in managing the funds, Havens
said in an interview. This will increase, he said, as New York-
based Citigroup withdraws its own money and attracts outside
investors to comply with the Volcker rule, which restricts
deposit-taking banks from making bets with their own capital.  Havens and Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 55, are
seeking to replace the company’s cash in CCA with funds from
outsiders as regulators draft the Volcker rule’s final language.
The proposed rule would prohibit banks from owning more than 3
percent of hedge funds and private-equity funds and from
investing more than 3 percent of Tier 1 capital in the funds.  Former  Morgan Stanley (MS)  executives Jonathan Dorfman and James
O’Brien run CCA, which managed  $18.2 billion  in private-equity,
venture-capital and hedge funds, Citigroup said in August.  Citigroup had at least $5 billion in the funds, a person
familiar with the matter said in May. The company also invested
about $800 million of its money in internal private-equity and
hedge funds in the third quarter, according to a November
regulatory filing.  Attracting external capital would help Citigroup withdraw
its money without forcing the closure of funds that hold mostly
company cash. Citigroup didn’t provide details about how it
would divest its ownership of the hedge-fund unit.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Mutuals May Struggle to Stay Afloat Under Fed Dividend Rule  Mutual savings banks say they will have difficulty
retaining capital, attracting investors and even staying afloat
under a new  Federal Reserve  rule requiring depositors each year
to approve a dividend waiver.  In short, mutual bank managers say, the new rule may make
it less attractive to invest in mutual holding companies -- the
entities that own the typically small, consumer-service oriented
banks. That could lead to decreased capital, pressure to convert
to an all-stock company and ultimately, the absorption of
community-oriented mutual holding companies into big-name banks.  Mutual banks are thrifts whose majority owners are
depositors and whose minority owners are public shareholders.  For decades, the former Office of Thrift Supervision
allowed a mutual holding company to waive its yearly dividend --
which meant the holding company could avoid a large tax bill,
provide investors assurance it could meet its income-to-dividend
test and retain and attract public shareholders, who contribute
real capital to the institution and receive the dividend
instead.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, the Federal Reserve now helps to
govern mutual banks. Under an interim Fed rule, a mutual holding
company can no longer waive the dividends it owes itself unless
a majority of the bank’s depositors vote to allow the waiver.
The new requirement is in effect even as the Fed reviews
comments on it.  In the comment letters, mutual bank managers point out that
most depositors won’t understand the waiver issue and will
probably reject it. Ultimately, the managers warn, the dividend-
waiver issue could erode their capital levels and scare away
investors.  For more, click here.  Turkey Proposes Laws for Bank Regulator Chiefs, Insider Trading  The Turkish government will allow the heads of the banking
regulator and the fund which insures deposits and manages failed
banks to serve a second term in office, according to draft
legislation submitted to parliament yesterday.  Tevfik Bilgin ’s six-year term as chairman of the Ankara-
based banking regulator will end in April. Sakir Ercan Gul, who
has headed the Istanbul-based Savings Deposit Insurance Fund
since February 2010, will complete his term at the end of this
month.  Separately, Turkey will introduce tougher penalties for
manipulation of financial markets and insider trading, Sabah
newspaper reported, citing a draft for a new capital markets
law.  The law foresees jail sentences of between three and six
years for those found guilty of insider trading or spreading
false information and then profiting from it, Sabah said.  The new law will include more specific definitions of the
kind of publications, including material from the Internet, that
are subject to it, Sabah said. That may lead to penalties for
foreign institutions that have written reports recently that
affected markets, the newspaper said, without specifying them.  Compliance Action  UBS Turning Whistle-Blower in Libor Probe Pressures Rivals  UBS AG’s (UBSN)  decision to become first-confessor as regulators
probe the alleged manipulation of  interest rates  will ratchet up
the risks for other banks that set the benchmark for $360
trillion of securities worldwide.  The bank is seeking to insulate itself from the biggest
possible fines from the investigation by turning itself in to
regulators before its competitors to gain leniency, lawyers
said. The plan still leaves the Zurich-based lender vulnerable
to  lawsuits  from clients and raises the potential antitrust
penalties for its competitors.  UBS, already facing scrutiny of its internal controls after
posting a $2.3 billion loss from unauthorized trading last year,
is trying to shorten the probe against itself by cooperating.
Its disclosure to regulators that employees colluded to rig the
 London  interbank offered rate is likely to renew calls for
regulators to overhaul the way firms set the rate.  UBS disclosed in a July filing it had got conditional
immunity from the U.S. Justice Department in its probe of Libor.
In February, the bank said it received similar immunity from the
Swiss Competition Commission. Spokesman Richard Morton declined
to comment on the lender’s leniency agreements.  By making the first disclosure to regulators, the lender
will make it harder for competitors including  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM)  and Citigroup Inc. to claim similar protection. UBS’s
competitors could face higher penalties for not coming forward
earlier, said Steven Francis, a regulatory lawyer at Reynolds
Porter Chamberlain in London.  Brian Marchiony , a London-based JPMorgan spokesman, and
 Jeffrey French , a spokesman for Citigroup in London, declined to
comment on the investigations.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted daily for
the British Bankers’ Association in London.  For more, click here.  U.K. FSA Is Reviewing Cross-Border Allegations in Libor Probe  Britain’s Financial Services Authority is investigating
“significant cross-border allegations in regards to Libor.”  Tracey McDermott, the regulator’s acting head of
enforcement, publicly disclosed the probe for the first time in
a speech in London today.  The U.K. regulator is probing whether banks’ proprietary-
trading desks exploited information they had about the direction
of Libor to trade interest-rate derivatives, potentially
defrauding their firms’ counterparties, two people familiar have
said.  The U.K. FSA is investigating whether banks’ Libor
submissions reflected their actual cost of borrowing and is
scrutinizing market data for potential anomalies, another person
familiar with the investigation said. The watchdog is scanning
e-mails between bankers for code words that could be used to
manipulate Libor, a person familiar with the case has said.  For more, click here.  European Sovereign Bond Protection Facility Launched, EFSF Says  The European Financial Stability Facility said it has
launched a program that will be able to provide partial
insurance for sovereign bonds of a euro-area nation.  The European Sovereign Bond Protection Facility would offer
insurance certificates for newly issued debt. The certificates
would give the holder an amount of fixed-credit protection of 20
percent to 30 percent of the principal amount of the sovereign
bond, the EFSF said.  The partial risk protection is designed to be used
primarily under precautionary programs and is aimed at
increasing demand for new issues of euro-area nations and
lowering funding costs, the EFSF said. The program is one of two
leveraging mechanisms in development and must be requested in
order to be used.  Bristol Myers Squibb Gets Subpoena for Abilify Information  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  said it received a subpoena from
the U.S. attorney’s office in  New York  asking for information
about sales and marketing of its second-best-selling drug,
Abilify, used to treat schizophrenia and other mood disorders.  “It’s not possible at this time to assess the outcome of
this matter or its potential impact on the company,” the New
York-based firm said in a filing Feb. 17 with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The subpoena was received
last month.  The Abilify antipsychotic drug generated $2.8 billion in
revenue in 2011, second after the blood thinner Plavix in the
company’s portfolio, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Laura Hortas, a company spokeswoman, declined to comment on
the subpoena beyond the company’s statement.  Courts  Expert Networker John Kinnucan Charged; Barnetson Pleads Guilty  John Kinnucan, the Broadband Research LLC founder who said
he refused to secretly record a money manager in a nationwide
U.S. probe of insider trading, was charged with participating in
a securities fraud scheme.  Kinnucan, 54, was charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit securities fraud, one count of conspiracy to commit wire
fraud and two counts of securities fraud in a federal complaint
unsealed Feb. 17 in federal court in New York.  He was arrested at his home in Portland, Oregon, on Feb.
16, and is being held in jail, according to the Federal Bureau
of Investigation. He was scheduled to appear before a federal
magistrate in Oregon Feb. 17, the U.S. said.  Kinnucan used “financial incentives,” and other
inducements to persuade public company insiders to reveal their
employer’s secrets, Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara, whose
office is prosecuting the case, said in a statement.  Kinnucan allegedly paid one source of illegal tips $27,500
and invested $25,000 in the business of a second source. He also
provided inside information to his clients on the understanding
they’d use the tips to execute transactions, according to the
statements in a criminal complaint filed in U.S. District Court
in New York.  In the complaint, prosecutors said that between 2008 and
2010, Kinnucan allegedly obtained nonpublic information such as
quarterly revenue numbers from co-conspirators who worked at
publicly-traded companies such as  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV) ,  Sandisk
Corp. (SNDK)  and  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX)   Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office, declined
to comment on Kinnucan’s arrest.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission also brought a
parallel civil case against Kinnucan Feb. 17 in a complaint
filed in Manhattan federal court.  Nathaniel Burney, a New York lawyer who has represented
Kinnucan, said in a phone interview last week that he is no
longer his defense lawyer and declined to comment further on the
matter, citing attorney-client privilege. Kinnucan said in a
Feb. 14 e-mail that he was representing himself.  Separately, former SanDisk Corp. executive Donald Barnetson
pleaded guilty Feb. 17 to participating in a securities fraud
scheme with Kinnucan.  Barnetson, 37, pleaded guilty in federal court in Manhattan
Feb. 17 to one count of conspiracy to commit securities and wire
fraud. He faces as long as five years in prison and was ordered
released on $50,000 bond.  Lee Flanagin, a spokesman for Milpitas, California-based
SanDisk, said Barnetson left the company in early 2011.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-MAG-424, and the
civil case is SEC v. Kinnucan, 12-CV-1230, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here, and click here.  Iran Starts Trial in $2.6 Billion Bank Fraud Case, Press TV Says  Iran started the trial of 32 people charged with
involvement in a $2.6 billion banking fraud, the biggest in the
country’s history,  Press TV  reported, citing Prosecutor General
Abbas Jafari-Dolatabadi.  The trial opened in the Islamic Revolution Court in Tehran
Feb. 19, with Jafari-Dolatabadi saying the defendants are part
of “a well-organized group which has conducted criminal actions
in the guise of an investment company to undermine the economic
security of the society,” Press TV said.  The defendants, who weren’t identified, were involved in
efforts to provide forged documents to get loans with the aim of
buying state-owned companies that were being privatized and to
open up letters of credit to transfer large amounts of money
abroad, Press TV said, citing the indictment.  Owners of the Aria Investment Development Co., which is at
the center of the controversy, allegedly bribed managers of
banks to get loans and letters of credit, the report said. The
company has more than 35 affiliates that are active in diverse
business activities, it said. The equivalent of $2.6 billion was
withdrawn from the country’s banking system and deposited in a
personal account, Press TV said.  Interviews/Speeches  Tilman Says Dodd-Frank and Volcker Rules Won’t Help  Leo Tilman, president of L.M. Tilman & Co., talked about
risk strategies and corporate behavior, as well as his views on
the Volcker rule.  He spoke with Tom Keene on Bloomberg Television’s
“Surveillance Midday.”  For the video, click here.  Bloomberg’s Cohan Says Arbitration Doesn’t Work  Bloomberg columnist William D. Cohan said arbitration on
Wall Street “is all a fiction.” Cohan talked with Bloomberg’s
Ken Prewitt on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”
They were joined by  Gerard Cassidy , an analyst with  RBC Capital
Markets .  Cohan is a Bloomberg View columnist.  The opinions
expressed are his own.  For the audio, click here.  Comings and Goings  Citigroup Appoints New Japan Markets Head After Libor Suspension  Citigroup Inc. appointed a new head of its Japanese markets
business as Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit seeks to
rebuild in the country after receiving the third regulatory
punishment in seven years in December.  Suneel Bakhshi was appointed president and CEO of Citigroup
Global Markets Japan, according to a statement on the New York-
based bank’s website. Bakhshi is currently chief risk officer of
Citigroup’s commercial bank, according to the statement.  Bakhshi is taking over duties from Brian Mccappin, who the
bank said in December would resign after the unit was banned for
two weeks from trading tied to the London and Tokyo interbank
offered rates. Citigroup staff attempted to improperly influence
the rates, the Japanese Financial Services Agency said. The bank
was also suspended from soliciting sales of certain products to
retail customers after failing to fully explain their risk.  Citigroup said Mccappin would resign after regulators
announced the ban, and apologized to customers in a statement in
response to the FSA’s allegations.  James “Jamie” Forese, head of Citigroup’s securities and
banking unit, said in an internal memorandum obtained by
Bloomberg News that Bakhshi has held several senior positions in
trading, banking, and risk management during his 30-year career
at Citigroup.  Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup,
confirmed the memo’s contents. Shuntaro Higashi, the unit’s
interim president and CEO, will continue as chairman of the
business, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 