-- City Rising From New Zealand’s Deadly Earthquake Spells End for Low Rates
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-02-21T22:15:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/city-rising-from-new-zealand-s-deadly-earthquake-spells-end-for-low-rates.html
A year after an earthquake wrecked
New Zealand’s second-largest city, the first steel piles are
appearing downtown, signs of reconstruction that Westpac Banking
Corp. says will spur inflation and end record-low  interest
rates .  A block from Christchurch’s ruined cathedral, a two-level
retail and office project is among the first in the cordoned-off
heart of the South Island city, which today marks the
anniversary of the country’s deadliest quake in eight decades.
As many as 26 commercial buildings are under way in the inner
city, Prime Minister John Key said this week.  “Its sort of like spring for buildings, they are starting
to appear now,” Warwick Issacs, general manager of operations
at the  Canterbury Earthquake Recovery Authority , said in an
interview. Ninety-six piles are being sunk for realtor Harcourts
Grenadier’s four-story office block and its owners “want it up
as soon as they possibly can,” he said.  After 12 months of demolition, clearing and temporary
repairs, hampered by more than 5,700 aftershocks, a NZ$20
billion ($17 billion) reconstruction program is gaining
momentum, moving from the rebuilding of suburban homes to the
offices and malls downtown. While that will bolster spending and
create jobs, it will also drive up prices and wage costs, said
Dominick Stephens, New Zealand chief economist for Westpac.  “It’s going to put pressure on resources, pressure on
inflation and therefore require higher  interest rates ,”
Stephens, who previously worked at the central bank, said in a
telephone interview. “Implications will be larger than the
market currently believes.”  Rate Increase  Swap rates imply the three-month bank bill yield will be
about 3.4 percent by late 2013. Westpac forecasts 4.3 percent.
Stephens expects officials to boost the cash rate from a record-
low 2.5 percent in December, reaching 6 percent by late 2015.  Nine out of 16 economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast
the cash rate will rise between September and March.  Consumer
prices (NZCPIYOY)  gained 1.8 percent in 2011, while wages in the country
rose the most in three years in the fourth quarter, boosted by
an increase in demand for construction workers.  A report this week showed the cost of road-building rose
the most in two years, bolstering predictions that construction
inflation will accelerate rapidly this year, said Stephen Toplis, head of research at Bank of  New Zealand  Ltd. in
Wellington, who expects a rate increase in September.  Central bank Governor Alan Bollard last month said he
expects a gradual lift in construction this year, with work
“getting under way in earnest” in 2013.  Broken Cathedral  In Cathedral Square, dust-covered demolition workers gather
at two trucks selling sandwiches and hot food, replacing the
40,000 tourists and office staff who once filled the heart of
the city. The 130-year-old stone cathedral stands broken and
deconsecrated, with stained-glass windows shattered and the west
wall propped up by girders.  Across the square, The Press newspaper’s century-old
building has vanished, one of about 200 heritage buildings that
will be fully or partially demolished.  “The government is committed to rebuilding this great
city,” Key told a service for families and rescuers today
remembering the magnitude 6.3 temblor that killed 185 people a
year ago. “We will rebuild a new Christchurch, a Christchurch
with a new future, a city that looks different but carries a
renewed vibrancy and energy.”  Repairs have been slowed by  aftershocks , with 12 of
magnitude 5.5 or higher since a 7.1 earthquake struck on Sept.
4, 2010. That includes a level-6 earthquake as recently as Dec.
23.  Aftershocks  Fletcher Building Ltd. (FBU) , the nation’s biggest construction
company, today lowered its full-year earnings forecast, citing
weak demand and delays to Christchurch rebuilding caused by the
aftershocks in December.  The aftershocks diverted contractors to emergency fixes and
temporarily slowed work on final repairs, which are mow
accelerating, said David Peterson, general manager of earthquake
recovery at Fletcher. He oversees a project on behalf of the
state-owned disaster insurance agency to repair at least 100,000
homes that have suffered damage of as much as NZ$100,000. His
contractors have returned 9,180 properties to their owners and
are working on 30,460 more.  “We’ve got a wee way to go,” Peterson said in an
interview in his Christchurch office. He said the project is
averaging about 1,600 completions a month and that will increase
to between 2,200 and 2,500 in order to complete 80 percent of
the NZ$3 billion repair job by December 2014.  Benign Inflation  Bollard told reporters last month that he wasn’t
uncomfortable with an outlook for no change in rates through
2012 as inflation remained benign. Price pressures “may be a
little less than they would have been had there been an earlier
rebuild,” said Bollard, who announced he would step down in
September after helming the central bank since 2002. “We think
there will be less likely bottleneck inflation as result.”  In the inner city’s so-called “red zone,” more than half
the 2,700 commercial buildings need to be fully or partially
demolished, and around 1,060 have already been removed. Those
that are sound are being restored, including four hotels.  Rebuilding Goals  “Three want to open no later than the middle of this
year,” said Issacs at the Earthquake Recovery Authority, who
wants to reduce the size of the cordoned-off area by early
April.  The return of workers and tourists to the city center can’t
come soon enough for Rick Hellings, chief executive officer of
 Smiths City (SCY)  Group Ltd., which reopened an appliance and
furniture store just outside the red zone in November.  “Our midweek foot traffic is well down because we don’t
have those people working in the central city,” he said in an
interview. “The central area won’t go ahead until such time as
they’ve got those 40,000 people back.”  Smiths City plans to rebuild its head office next to the
store, said Hellings, who is working from a converted house in
the west of the city.  “I don’t see any reason we wouldn’t go back,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net  