-- Clinton Says Diplomats Must Aid U.S. Businesses Overseas
-- B y   W i l l i a m   M c Q u i l l e n
-- 2012-02-21T19:35:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/clinton-says-diplomats-being-pressed-to-promote-u-s-businesses.html
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
said the U.S. needs more economists working in the diplomatic
corps to help companies win business overseas and add jobs at
home.  The State Department is training diplomats in economics,
finance and markets to ensure they are focused on  job creation 
in the U.S. and overseas, Clinton said today at a conference.
Diplomats are being told to conduct “business outreach and
advocacy” when overseas, she said.  “We’re changing the way we do business to better advance
and support the way you do business,” Clinton told corporate
leaders at a State Department luncheon. “We need to see the
world like you do, crisscrossed not just by national borders but
by global supply chains.”  The conference brought together representatives from more
than 100 nations, leaders from companies such as Boeing Co. and
the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. Countries such as  India ,  China  and
 Brazil  are already focused on economic goals, and the U.S. needs
to catch up, she said.  Increasing diplomacy also will help level the playing field
with nations that may use non-competitive practices, Clinton
said. Focusing on trade is part of President Barack Obama’s
initiative to double U.S. exports to $3.14 trillion by 2015,
from $1.57 trillion in 2009.  ‘Fallen Behind’  “We had fallen behind some other countries -- some of them
our friends and allies -- when it came to using diplomacy to
promote economic interests,’ Clinton said. ‘‘American companies
haven’t always seen the federal government as an ally, and I
know the State Department hasn’t always been the first call when
they’re looking for help. We can and will do better.”  Boeing Co. (BA)  Chief Executive Officer Jim McNerney called on
Congress to reauthorize the Export-Import Bank, which he said
has helped create 290,000 direct and indirect jobs at more than
3,600 U.S. companies. Renewing the bank’s lending powers has
been “shamefully episodic and short term,” McNerney said.  U.S. exporters led by Boeing, the world’s biggest aerospace
company, and Caterpillar Inc., the world’s largest maker of
construction and mining equipment, are pushing to increase the
bank’s lending limit, which is nearing its ceiling. The
companies lobbied more than 100 lawmakers this month to push for
a 40 percent increase in lending, to $140 billion. They said
failure to act will cost jobs.  “Ex-Im reauthorization is vital for keeping competitive
with foreign rivals,” McNerney, also Boeing’s chairman, said.
“It’s certainly more than a Boeing issue.”  Clinton also named Heidi Rediker as the department’s first
chief economist to work on programs to support U.S. companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  