-- CME Raises Stake in Dubai Mercantile Exchange in Recapitalization Plan
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-02-21T12:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/cme-oman-fund-to-increase-stakes-in-dubai-mercantile-exchange.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest
futures exchange owner, and Oman Investment Fund will raise
their respective stakes in the Dubai Mercantile Exchange to
support expansion at the Middle East oil bourse.  CME Group’s Nymex division will double its holding to 50
percent, while Oman’s sovereign wealth fund will own 29 percent
of the Dubai exchange, according to a PRNewswire statement
released today. The DME will receive “significant new funds,”
Chief Executive Officer Thomas Leaver said in a conference call,
without providing further financial details. The Dubai
exchange’s only product is the Oman crude futures contract.  “The CME is putting capital into the DME to help them
reach their goals,” Gary Morsches, the managing director for
energy at CME Group, said on the call. The Oman crude contract
is “an outstanding measure for Mideast crudes, and the
liquidity provides outstanding risk-management tools.”  The DME is seeking to establish the Oman crude futures
contract, which gives investors the option to take physical
deliveries, as the benchmark for oil sales to  Asia . Leaver, its
CEO, wants more oil-producing countries, which mainly use
benchmarks to price the crude they sell under long-term
contracts, to adopt the Oman contract as their base.  Diluted Holdings  Other stakeholders in the DME will see their holdings
diluted because they didn’t invest additional funds. A unit of
Dubai Holding LLC, one of the emirate’s three main holding
companies, will retain 9 percent, while 12 percent will be held
by investors including Vitol Group,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
and Concord Energy Inc., according to the statement.  Under the existing arrangement, CME Group, the Oman fund and
a Dubai state-owned investment company each has a 25 percent
stake in the exchange, according to the company’s website and
comments Leaver made in a June 2009 interview. The other
investors split a 20 percent stake bought in 2008. The remaining
5 percent is allocated to floor trading members, according to
the website and Leaver.  DME Chairman Ahmad Sharaf said Jan. 9 that the exchange
would raise money this year by offering shares to existing
investors, while maintaining the current roster of shareholders.  Oman, the largest Middle Eastern oil producer that’s not a
member of OPEC, uses the monthly averages generated by the
exchange to set the  official selling price  for its crude. Dubai
began using the DME as a benchmark to price its oil in 2009. The
standard for Middle Eastern crude is the Dubai price assessment
published by Platts, an energy-information division of McGraw-
Hill Cos.  Swaps, Options  CME Group offers clearing services for trades done on the
Dubai exchange and supports swaps and options contracts that are
based on the DME’s Oman oil futures contract.  The Dubai exchange, which may offer additional fuel or
derivative contracts, is targeting members of the six-nation
Gulf Cooperation Council to switch to the Oman contract as a
benchmark, Leaver has said. The council comprises  Saudi Arabia ,
 Kuwait , the  United Arab Emirates , Qatar, Oman and Bahrain.  The DME, located in the Dubai International Financial
Centre, delivered more than 145 million barrels of crude oil in
2011, according to today’s statement. Trading volume rose 19
percent from the previous year, according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  