-- Coal to India Beating China on Singh Diktat
-- B y   D i n a k a r   S e t h u r a m a n   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-02-21T05:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/coal-to-india-beating-china-on-supply-shortfall-energy-markets.html
India  is poised to surpass China as
the world’s biggest thermal coal importer as Prime Minister
Manhoman Singh seeks supplies for power makers that have halted
plans for $36 billion of new plants because of a fuel shortage.  Purchases from abroad may exceed 118 million metric tons
this year in India, compared with China’s 102 million tons, said
Daniel Hynes, a director of commodity research at Citigroup Inc.
in Sydney. Imports may rise after the government ordered state-
run  Coal India Ltd. (COAL)  to plug a local shortfall with foreign
supplies, according to analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  India’s forecast emergence as the world’s biggest coal
buyer underscores a dearth of domestic fuel that prompted
companies from billionaire Anil Ambani’s  Reliance Power Ltd. (RPWR)  to
 Adani Power Ltd. (ADANI)  to mothball planned expansion of electricity
capacity. India’s $1.7 trillion  economy  grew at the slowest pace
in two years from July to September as power and factory output
slowed. For its part, China is adding twice as much coal-
production capacity this year as in 2011, according to the
National Energy Administration, reducing its import needs.  “Coal shipments to China will get diverted to India,”
 Michael Parker , a Hong Kong-based analyst at Bernstein, said in
an interview. In China, “power consumption growth rates will
continue to decline and coal production and transport capacity
growth are rapidly improving.”  The deficit between the demand and supply of  domestic coal 
in India may rise as high as 150 million tons by 2014 if the
country fails to increase local supplies by 6 percent this year,
according to Hynes. The nation is seeking to improve
infrastructure to achieve an average economic growth rate of 9
percent in the five years starting April 1.  China Imports  Thermal, or steam-coal  imports  by  China  will drop this year
by about 40 million tons, an amount that may be bought by India
instead, Parker said. China’s purchases rose 17 percent to about
138 million tons last year, excluding coking coal used to make
steel, customs data show.  China will add 200 million tons of coal-production capacity
this year, twice as much as in 2011, according to the National
Energy Administration. Power consumption increased 12 percent
last year and may increase 8.5 percent this year, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported Jan. 11. Coal output increased 11
percent in 2011 and may grow 6.6 percent, Bernstein estimates.  India imported 81.1 million tons of steam coal for its
 power plants  in 2011, according to New Delhi-based Interocean
Group, a shipping brokerage. Annual overseas purchases may rise
by 74 percent, or 60 million tons, in four years, according to  K.
Raja Gopal , chief executive officer at the power unit of  Lanco
Infratech Ltd. (LANCI) , India’s second-largest non-state power utility.  ‘Upside Potential’  “If Coal India is forced to supply new power plants with
coal, the upside potential for thermal coal imports is
significantly higher than 118 million tons,” Citigroup’s Hynes
said in an e-mail.  Coal India reported a 2.7 percent drop in production to
291.2 million tons in the nine months ended Dec. 31, according
to a Feb. 13 statement. Operations were curbed by rains, while
the development of new mines was hampered by delays in land
acquisitions and environmental approvals.  “There’s a chance that India can surpass China’s current
import levels,” Hiranyava Bhadra, a partner at  KPMG ’s Indian
unit, said by phone from Mumbai. “It will depend on the
availability of sourcing infrastructure and the ability of the
distribution system to afford more expensive fuel,” he said.
Imports will climb to about 250 million tons in 2017, according
to Bhadra.  Paying the Penalty  Coal India must pay a penalty to power producers should
deliveries fall to less than 80 percent of the contracted
quantity, according to the  government . That puts pressure on the
mining company to increase imports. Buying the fuel from Coal
India would eliminate the financial risk of importing it
directly for Reliance, Adani and other power producers.  Coal India sells domestic fuel for less than international
prices. For instance, the company sells the 4,300-4,600
kilocalories grade at 780 rupees a ton ($16), according to a
statement on its  website . Prices may be revised after March,
Coal India Chairman Zohra Chatterji said on Feb. 17. A similar
 grade  from  Indonesia  cost $58 a ton in February, according to
Indonesian government prices.  Thermal  coal  with 6,700 kilocalories per kilogram at
 Australia ’s Newcastle port, an Asian pricing benchmark, cost
$117.60 a ton as on Feb. 17, according to IHS McCloskey data on
Bloomberg.  Regulatory Stick  “They import what they can pay, and if they can’t pass
through fuel costs and sell at regulated tariffs, they will be
squeezed,” said  Emmanuel Fages , the Paris-based head of energy
research in  Europe  at Societe Generale SA. “The new regulation
is a stick, but I don’t see where the carrot is.”  Coal India scrapped a proposal to buy coal this year and
suspended a separate plan for annual imports over a decade
because of disagreements with customers on deliveries to plants,
three people with knowledge of the matter said Feb. 2.  India’s fuel shortages are being exacerbated by a lack of
trucking and reliable railway networks to transport coal inland
from ports. Thermal coal supplies at ports may be as much as 9
million tons, Citigroup said in a Feb. 6 report. Some mines are
operating at one-third capacity because they aren’t receiving
cargoes, the report cited Coal Secretary Alok Perti as saying.  “Coal India has to make a more serious effort for imports
now,” Perti said in a Feb. 16 interview in  New Delhi . The
company plans to produce 440 million tons of the fuel from
domestic mines in the year ending March 31, according to Perti.
The production target for the next 12 months is 464 million tons,
he said.  ‘Doing Our Best’  “We have asked Coal India to consider giving power
companies higher coal supplies,” Coal Minister Sriprakash Jaiswal said Jan. 18. “It’s not possible to increase coal
output overnight, but we are doing our best.”  India’s  peak power deficit  was 13 percent in December
compared with 10 percent in January last year, according to the
Central Electricity Authority. The nation had 187.5 gigawatts of
installed capacity as of Jan. 31, more than half of which uses
coal, according to the data.  Higher imports, when blended with local coal, will result
in a “marginal” increase in cost which Coal India can pass
through, Gopal said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dinakar Sethuraman in New Delhi at 
 dinakar@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  