-- Cobalt Tumbles on Bigger-Than-Expected Loss: Houston Mover
-- B y   J o e   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-02-21T23:06:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/cobalt-tumbles-on-bigger-than-expected-loss-houston-mover.html
Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE) ,
the deep-water oil explorer whose largest investors include
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , fell the most in two months after
posting a fourth-quarter loss almost twice the average estimate.  The shares declined 6.1 percent to $31.97 at the close in
 New York . Before today, the stock had more than doubled in the
past year as Cobalt announced discoveries off the coast of
 Africa  and in the  Gulf of Mexico , including a field the company
said may hold 1 billion barrels of crude.  Cobalt’s loss widened to $51.1 million, or 13 cents a
share, from $29.8 million, or 9 cents, a year earlier, the
Houston-based company said today in a Business Wire statement.
The average of 10 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg was
for a per-share loss of 7.4 cents.  Cobalt’s costs for exploration failures jumped more than
fivefold to $8.87 million from a year earlier, according to
today’s statement. The company also said in a U.S. regulatory
filing today that the Securities and Exchange Commission has
started an investigation into whether one of its partners in an
Angolan project, Nazaki Oil and Gaz SA, has connections to
senior government officials.  In a separate announcement today, the company said it plans
to sell 15.7 million new shares and some of its shareholders
will sell an additional 31.3 million. The underwriters of the
offering have been granted the option to sell an additional 7.05
million shares, the company said.  The proceeds from the sale will be used to fund drilling
and general corporate expenses, according to the statement.
Cobalt was founded in 2005 and first sold shares to the public
in December 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Carroll  in Chicago at 
 jcarroll8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  