-- Codexis Has Historic Drop After CEO Resigns: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-02-21T21:40:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/codexis-has-historic-drop-after-ceo-resigns-san-francisco-mover.html
Codexis Inc. (CDXS) , the U.S. biotechnology
company, had a record decline after Chief Executive Officer Alan Shaw departed and analysts downgraded its shares.  Codexis, which develops enzymes used in the production of
biofuels, biochemicals and pharmaceuticals,  declined  19 percent
to $3.70 at the close in  New York , the most since it began
trading on April 22, 2010.  Shaw, who was president of the company since it was
founded, will leave “to pursue other interests,” the  Redwood
City , California-based company said in a Feb. 17 statement.
Peter Strumph, 47, senior vice president and business head of
pharmaceuticals, was appointed interim CEO.  “Alan, in consultation with the board, decided that it was
in the best interest of the company to turn over the reins at
this time,” Wes Bolsen, chief marketing officer, said today by
telephone. “The board decided that now was the best time to put
in the leadership team that it’s going to take to move Codexis
forward,”  Shaw will continue to serve as a special adviser to the
board. His resignation follows the departure of Chief Financial
Officer Robert Lawson, who left the company Jan. 24.  Lawson “chose to take another opportunity in the  software
industry , which is where he came from,” Bolsen said.  Michael Klein , a New York-based analyst with Sidoti & Co.,
downgraded the shares today to “neutral” from “buy” with a
target price of $4. Codexis was also downgraded to
“underweight” from “neutral” by Michael Cox, an analyst with
Piper Jaffray & Co. in New York.  Ethanol Yeast  Codexis is working with a venture of Royal Dutch Shell Plc
and  Brazil ’s Cosan SA Industria & Comercio on improved yeast
strains to boost the output of mills that turn sugar cane into
ethanol, technology it said in September it plans to sell at the
end of this year.  The company also introduced new enzymes last year for
converting biomass into sugars that can be used to make
detergent alcohols it’s developing with Chemtex Inc.  “To what extent are these initiatives going to play out
and what’s the timeline around when they play out?” Klein said.
“That’s the uncertainty right now weighing on the stock.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  