-- Copper Gains as Greek Acccord Eases Debt-Crisis Concern
-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 2012-02-21T19:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/copper-jumps-most-since-november-on-greek-bailout-correct-.html
(Corrects spelling of “copper” in headline.)  Copper surged the most since
November after a second bailout for  Greece  eased concern that a
European debt crisis will crimp metals demand, and as China took
steps to spur bank lending and economic growth. Aluminum also
rallied.  European finance ministers approved 130 billion euros ($173
billion) in aid for Greece by tapping into European Central Bank
profits and coaxing investors into providing more debt relief to
shield the region from a default. The proportion of cash that
Chinese lenders must set aside will fall half a percentage point
as of Feb. 24, the People’s Bank of China said Feb. 18, lowering
the requirement for the second time in three months. China is
the world’s largest copper user.  “Copper is up on optimism surrounding the Greek bailout,
coupled with a decision by the  Bank of China  to reduce the
 reserve requirements  for Chinese banks,” Scott Gardner, the
chief investment officer at Verdmont Capital SA in Panama, said
in an e-mail.  Copper futures for May delivery climbed 3.5 percent to
settle at $3.8445 a pound at 1:12 p.m. on the Comex in New York,
the biggest gain for a most-active contract since Nov. 30.
Prices slumped 6.6 percent in the previous six sessions.  Imports of refined copper by China fell 18 percent in
January from a record in December, the first drop in eight
months, customs figures showed today.  Production Disruption  A worker died in an accident at  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  and
 Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s Collahuasi copper mine in  Chile  yesterday,
shutting down the mine. Snowstorms at Collahuasi, the world’s
third-largest copper mine, disrupted production earlier this
week at the site, 4,400 meters (14,426 feet) above sea level.  “Incidents like these are indicative of the kind of
fundamental issues copper producers face,”  William O’Neill , a
partner at Logic Advisors in Upper Saddle River, New Jersey,
said in a telephone interview.  On the London Metal Exchange, copper for three-month
delivery gained 2.6 percent to $8,449 a metric ton ($3.83 a
pound), the biggest jump since Feb. 3.  Stockpiles monitored by the LME, down 18 percent this year,
slid for a fifth session to 305,425 tons, remaining at the
lowest level since September 2009.  Aluminum for three-month delivery advanced 3.5 percent to
$2,255 a ton, rising the most since Nov. 30. Zinc, nickel, lead
and tin also surged in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net ;
Debarati Roy in  New York  at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  