-- Court Order Halts Debt-Collection Operation FTC Calls Fraudulent
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-02-21T19:28:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/court-order-halts-debt-collection-operation-ftc-calls-fraudulent.html
A federal judge in  Chicago  moved to
shut businesses that allegedly used illegally obtained personal
financial data to make threatening debt collection calls from
India to thousands of consumers who didn’t owe them money.  U.S. District Judge George W. Lindberg issued a temporary
order after the Federal Trade Commission sued Varang K. Thaker
of  Villa Park ,  California , and affiliated companies American
Credit Crunchers LLC and Ebeeze LLC, claiming the firms browbeat
victims to make payments on non-existent loans.  The FTC said the companies found their targets by somehow
obtaining Social Security numbers, bank account numbers and
other information submitted by people who had applied online for
payday loans.  The FTC alleged in court documents that the companies hired
callers in Ahmedabad,  India  to pose as debt collectors and law
enforcement officials, who harassed the applicants into paying
more than $5 million.  The FTC said that Thaker and the companies, in which he
serves as an officer, violated laws against unfair and deceptive
practices and fraudulent debt collection.  “This is a brazen operation based on pure fraud, and the
FTC is committed to shutting it down,”  David Vladeck , director
of the FTC’s bureau of consumer protection, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Consumers should not be pressured into paying
debt they don’t remember owing.”  The judge in his order dated Feb. 14 prohibited Thaker and
the companies from engaging in illegal conduct, froze Thaker’s
assets and those of the two companies, and appointed a receiver
to take over the firms. The FTC held a press conference
announcing the action today.  Eight Million Calls  Thaker and the companies didn’t respond to requests for
comment by phone and e-mail. A court hearing on the matter is
scheduled for Feb. 28, said  Steve Baker , director of the FTC’s
Midwest regional office.  Since January 2010, consumers have received about eight
million debt collection calls from India, Baker said. Those
getting calls had applied online to legitimate lenders for
short-term credit, known as payday loans because they are
usually repaid when the borrower gets his or her paycheck.  Baker said the FTC doesn’t know how the businesses
affiliated with Thaker obtained the financial information and
said the agency hasn’t been able to obtain cooperation from
Indian law enforcement officials. “We’re at the beginning” of
the investigation, he said.  Trade Group  The  Online Lenders Alliance , a trade association of
companies involved with Internet-based loans, last year hired
Freeh Group International LLC, a company founded by the former
director of the  Federal Bureau of Investigation ,  Louis Freeh , to
investigate after receiving widespread complaints from consumers
about threatening calls. The callers “are making the whole
industry look bad,” said Peter Barden, a spokesman for the
group said.  “Since the beginning of this scam we have been working
with the FTC and issuing consumer alerts warning our customers
about fraudulent debt collectors and what consumers can do to
protect themselves,” Lisa McGreevy, the head of the group, said
in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Maura Reynolds
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  