-- Banker Uses Whistle-Blower Rule to Sue for Bonus
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-02-21T15:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/credit-agricole-banker-uses-whistle-blower-rule-to-sue-for-bonus.html
A senior investment banker at  Credit
Agricole SA (ACA)  sued the French lender for millions of pounds,
claiming he missed out on bonuses and was dismissed for
reporting colleagues under whistle-blowing rules.  Edward Willems, former deputy head of fixed income markets
at  Credit Agricole ’s corporate and investment banking unit, was
“subjected to detriment as a result of making protected
disclosure,” his lawyer Tom Croxford told a London employment
tribunal today.  Willems’ bonuses in 2010 and 2011 were “inappropriately
low” because of the whistle blowing, Croxford said, without
describing the conduct he reported. Willems “is seeking
millions of pounds,” Credit Agricole’s lawyer Nicholas Randall
said at the hearing this morning.  While most wrongful dismissal damages are capped at about
72,000 pounds ($114,000), employment tribunals can award
unlimited amounts in whistle-blower cases. Samantha Mangwana, an
employment lawyer at Russell Jones & Walker who isn’t involved
in the case, said she has seen several whistle-blowing claims in
the financial industry, often for large sums when bonuses are
involved.  Employees are protected by U.K. law from being fired or
punished if they reveal malpractice in the public interest. The
conduct could be “improper, illegal or negligent behavior by
anyone in the workplace,” according to a guidelines published
on a British government  website .  Hocher, Laffineur  Jean-Yves Hocher, the chief executive officer of Credit
Agricole’s investment banking unit, and Guy Laffineur, the
former global head of fixed income markets, are scheduled to
appear as witnesses during the 11-day trial.  Meriel Schindler, one of Willems’ lawyers, didn’t respond
to an e-mail requesting comment. An e-mail to Credit Agricole’s
press office wasn’t immediately answered.  Most cases settle before trial, Mangwana said.  “Instead of thanking the whistle blowers for sticking
their necks out to avoid financial malpractice, all too often
reprisals are suffered and litigation commences,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  