-- Crisis Needs Revision of Economic Policies, Ordonez Says
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y
-- 2012-02-21T12:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/crisis-requires-deep-revision-of-economic-policies-ordonez-says.html
Governments must carry out a “deep
revision” of economic policies so they’re fully adapted to the
way monetary union works to overcome the euro region’s crisis,
Bank of  Spain  Governor Miguel Angel Fernandez Ordonez said.  “It’s fundamental that economic authorities and agents
fully assume the implications derived from sharing a single
monetary union,” Ordonez said in a speech in Madrid today.
“Solid public finances and flexibility of economic structures
are crucial requirements in this respect.”  Spain is battling a recession that the  International
Monetary Fund  expects will cause the economy to contract 1.7
percent this year. In the short term, countries can boost
competitiveness only by adjusting prices and salaries and
improving productivity, Ordonez said.  A “disproportionate part” of defending the stability of
the euro area has fallen to the  European Central Bank  as
governments seek to forge ways to stabilize markets, he said.
ECB steps such as the measures to keep funding channels open for
banks have helped give “precious time,” said Ordonez, an ECB
council member.  After two years of trying, governments still have not been
able to create “some mechanism of mutual assurance” that would
play a role in stabilizing markets, he said.  Sharing Sovereignty  European leaders have repeatedly reaffirmed their
commitment to preserve the monetary union and it’s obvious that
the process will require sharing sovereignty in areas such as
fiscal policy and powers relating to banks, Ordonez said.  “The steps taken so far point in the right direction,
although, to put it politely, there is a notable margin for
improvement in relation to the pace at which these decisions are
being taken,” he said. Current tensions in the region are due
to excessive complacency over high levels of private debt that
accumulated in some countries without sufficiently strict fiscal
policies to counterbalance them, said Ordonez.  “We are all aware that we live in critical times for
European integration,” he said. “We face a crisis of great
reach.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charles Penty in  Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  