-- Death Toll Mounts in Syria as Global Community Weighs Steps to End Unrest
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-02-21T00:28:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/death-toll-mounts-in-syria-as-global-community-weighs-steps-to-end-unrest.html
Opponents of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s rule stepped up their deadly attacks against
government officials as the violence of the past 11 months
pushes the country toward civil war.  Gunmen killed Syrian Public Prosecutor Nidal Ghazal, Judge
Mohammed Ziyadeh and their driver in Idlib, the official  Syrian
Arab News Agency  said. Assad’s security forces killed 12 people
today, Al Arabiya television reported.  The international community is divided over how to resolve
the conflict as the daily death toll mounts. Forces loyal to the
president are using tanks and artillery to try to crush a
rebellion seeking to topple Assad. Syrian government forces
killed 27 people across the country yesterday, the London-based
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on its website.  “I’m worried that  Syria  is going to slide into a civil
war,” U.K. Foreign Secretary William Hague told the  BBC ’s
Andrew Marr show yesterday.  A group of 2,500 soldiers deserted Assad’s forces and said
they joined the opposition Free Syrian Army, Istanbul-based Star
newspaper reported today, citing videos posted on the Web. About
40,000 people have deserted the regime’s 270,000-person security
forces, according to a Turkish Foreign Ministry official, who
confirmed the intelligence reports on customary condition of
anonymity.  Army General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the U.S. Joint
Chiefs of Staff, said yesterday on CNN that it’s too early to
arm the Syrian opposition, because it’s difficult to identify.  Chinese Visit  “Intervening in Syria would be very difficult,” he said
on  CNN ’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS.” Syria is “an arena right now
for all of the various interests to play out. And what I mean by
that is you’ve got great power involvement:  Turkey  clearly has
an interest, a very important interest, Russia has a very
important interest,  Iran  has an interest.”  China’s Vice Foreign Minister Zhai Jun visited Damascus on
Feb. 18 and urged Syria to halt the fighting and restore
stability. Zhai, speaking in the capital after a meeting with
Assad, backed the Syrian leader’s proposed referendum on a new
constitution, set for Feb. 26, according to the Chinese state
news agency Xinhua.  Syrian forces intensified efforts to stem the rebellion
after  China  and Russia vetoed a resolution at the  United Nations
Security Council  earlier this month calling on Assad to step
down in favor of an interim government that would hold
elections. The UN estimates more than 5,400 Syrians died last
year as Assad cracked down on protests that began in March, and
 Saudi Arabia  says the current death toll is at least 7,000.  ‘Disaster Areas’  “Bashar al-Assad is a relatively weak guy” with “a lot
of very strong people around him,”  Edward Walker , a former U.S.
ambassador to Israel and Egypt, said yesterday on CNN’s “State
of the Union” program. “Those people realize that if they give
up, they are dead.”  Syrian activists said there are “disaster areas” near
Damascus, with towns including Zabadani in Madaya having no
water or electricity,  Al Jazeera  television reported today,
citing Syria’s Revolution Command Council.  The International Committee of the Red Cross recently took
steps to begin talks on a cease-fire, Geneva-based spokeswoman
Carla Haddad Mardini told the  Associated Press . The effort seeks
to stop fighting “in the most affected areas” in Syria and
deliver emergency aid, she told AP. She didn’t immediately
return a call seeking comment.  Egypt Cuts Ties  Egypt ’s parliament approved a request by its Arab Affairs
Committee to cut ties with Syria, Al Jazeera TV reported today,
without saying how it got the information. The country recalled
its ambassador to Syria, the state-run Middle East News Agency
reported yesterday, citing Foreign Minister Mohamed Amr.  Egypt has joined the Gulf Arab countries in seeking to
isolate the Assad government. The Gulf Cooperation Council’s six
members announced on Feb. 7 that they were expelling Syrian
ambassadors from their capitals and withdrawing their envoys.  The list of options the international community has is
short, “with some, like a new UN General Assembly condemnation,
symbolically powerful, but practically insignificant,” Daniel
R. DePetris, the senior editor of the Journal on Terrorism and
Security Analysis, wrote yesterday in the Small Wars Journal.
“Others, like a Libya-style intervention or air strikes on
Syria’s defenses, are either impractical or politically
explosive.”  Contact Group  The most likely scenario for the U.S., DePetris said, is
forming a “Friends of Syria” group, which Secretary of State
 Hillary Clinton  will discuss with representatives of more than
85 other nations later this week in Tunis.  The “upcoming meeting will demonstrate that the Assad
regime is increasingly isolated and that the brave Syrian people
need our support and solidarity,” Clinton told reporters as
foreign ministers gathered today in Los Cabos,  Mexico . “Their
suffering has to be addressed, so we have to focus on
humanitarian issues and think about ways to deliver humanitarian
aid.”  “We have to prepare for the likelihood that the Syrian
regime is going to be under increasing pressure, which will
create perhaps more space for all of us to perhaps push hard on
a transition,” she said, adding that the U.S. will intensify
its outreach to countries that still support the Assad regime.  ‘Clear Message’  The Friends of Syria meeting “will send a clear message to
 Russia , China and others who are still unclear about how to
handle the increasing violence” and who aren’t supporting UN
resolutions intended to halt it, Clinton said.  The Syrian army resumed shelling residential districts of
Homs yesterday, Al Jazeera reported, citing opposition groups. A
fuel storage depot at the refinery in the besieged city was
bombed overnight by “an armed terrorist group,” SANA said.
Syrian forces stormed the city of al-Sokhna in the center of the
country, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said yesterday
in an e-mailed statement.  Security forces and armed men have been looting and
destroying shops in the Al-Atarib town in the countryside of
Aleppo, according to the Local Coordination Committee in Syria,
a network of activists.  Pressuring Assad  The unrest aims at “partitioning” the country and hurting
its position in the  Middle East , Assad was cited by SANA as
saying during the meeting with Zhai. The government has blamed
the violence on “terrorists” and foreign provocateurs.  The U.S., the European Union and the  Arab League , which
backed the resolution vetoed by China and Russia, will attend
the “Friends of Syria” meeting in  Tunisia  this week.  The meeting will discuss tightening the economic
stranglehold around Syria as part of efforts “to increase the
pressure on the Assad regime, to increase the isolation of the
Assad regime,” the U.K.’s Hague said.  EU governments are moving toward stiffer sanctions on
Syria. The 27-nation bloc is considering a freeze on central
bank assets and a ban on imports of phosphates and precious
metals, an EU official told reporters in Brussels on Feb. 8 on
condition of anonymity. The Arab League has already suspended
Syria and imposed economic sanctions on it.  Michael Hayden, who served as CIA director in Republican
President  George W. Bush ’s administration, suggested on CNN’s
“State of the Union” that a safe haven be created in northern
Syria to protect the civilian population and provide an area for
the opposition to coalesce. He said the haven could possibly be
created “under the Turks, but with broad international
sanction,” and that the idea was “probably not quite ready for
prime time.”  The “real dark scenario” is continuing with the status
quo, he said.  “What we’re seeing now bleeding into Syria, particularly
from  Iraq , is al-Qaeda and Islamic fundamentalism,” Hayden
said. “As long as this stays frozen, you’ll see the opposition,
I fear, take on more of this characteristic, and that can’t be
good.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  