-- BP Settles With Injured Deepwater Horizon Worker
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-02-21T05:46:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/deepwater-horizon-worker-benton-drops-bp-lawsuit-in-u-s-.html
BP Plc (BP/) ,  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  and others
involved in the operation of the Deepwater Horizon rig that
exploded in the  Gulf of Mexico  in 2010 agreed to settle a
lawsuit filed by a worker injured in the blast.  Oleander Benton, the Deepwater Horizon worker, said in a
filing yesterday in federal court in New Orleans that all the
claims have been “amicably settled,” and asked U.S. District
Judge  Carl Barbier  to dismiss the lawsuit.  Benton’s was among at least 40 lawsuits filed by survivors
or relatives of the 126-member crew that was aboard the rig when
it exploded off the Louisiana coast in April 2010, killing 11
and resulting in the worst  oil spill  in U.S. history. BP faces
hundreds of other lawsuits, including from businesses that have
had their properties or livelihoods damaged by the spill, and is
pressing to settle claims before a trial over its liability.  “With a reasonable settlement, we will settle,” BP Chief
Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said Feb. 7 in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “If it’s not a reasonable settlement,
we’ll go to court.”  BP, based in  London , is negotiating with U.S. officials to
settle pollution claims, according to a person familiar with the
talks, who declined to be identified because the matter isn’t
public. The U.S. is seeking fines of as much as $4,300 for each
of the 4.1 million barrels spilled after the explosion, which
would total as much as $17.6 billion.  Other Settlements  BP has already reached settlements with  Anadarko Petroleum
Corp. (APC)  and Mitsui & Co.’s Moex Offshore LLC unit, partners in the
well, and with Cameron International Corp., which provided
blowout-prevention equipment. Anadarko agreed to pay $4 billion
to BP, while Moex paid $1 billion and Cameron $250 million.  Those settlements let BP lower its reserve to cover costs
related to the sinking of the rig to $37.2 billion from more
than $40 billion, the company said this month.  Benton, who was employed as a seaman, had sought $5.5
million in damages for the injuries she suffered as a result of
the explosion, according to her statement of claim. Benton
blamed the defendants’ negligence and unseaworthiness of the rig
for the injuries.  Benton also said she settled claims against Cameron and
Halliburton Energy Services Inc. Details of the settlement
weren’t disclosed in the court document.  Hundreds of lawsuits by fishermen, tour operators and state
and local governments are being handled by Barbier. The judge is
to determine whether BP or any of the other companies engaged in
gross negligence or willful misconduct. He won’t consider
criminal allegations.  The  Justice Department  previously said it was investigating
possible criminal violations related to the blowout and spill.
None of the companies has been charged with a crime.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 2-10-md-1979,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider at   jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net  