-- How to Defuse Political Peril of Surging Gas Prices: Ron Klain
-- B y   R o n   K l a i n
-- 2012-02-21T00:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/defusing-political-peril-of-surging-gas-prices-commentary-by-ron-klain.html
The White House’s economic
achievement checklist looks better each day.  Unemployment rate 
back in the low 8 percent range? Check. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  back above 12,000? Check. Payroll-tax cut extended for
the rest of this year, giving an extra boost to the economy?
Check.  Yet a worrisome item casts a shadow over the good news. The
political risk of rising gasoline prices is the emerging hot
topic in  Washington . The question is: Are gas prices and their
impact on middle-class families like the weather, a phenomenon
everyone complains about but no one can change? Or can President
 Barack Obama  and his team defuse this danger before it grows
harder to manage?  According to AAA, gas prices have climbed an average of 14
cents a gallon in the past month and about 30 cents a gallon
since late November. In states such as Pennsylvania and  Florida ,
prices are an additional 10 cents to 15 cents a gallon higher,
and seem to go up each week.  The political pinch that this can cause is often
underappreciated. For some people, a few extra dollars at the
pump each week is little more than an annoyance. But for hard-
pressed middle-class families, and working families living
paycheck to paycheck, the soaring numbers at the corner gas
station are far more meaningful than the indexes at the  New York
Stock Exchange. (SPX)   Bigger Impact  Consider this: The president just won a victory over
congressional Republicans who couldn’t withstand the political
consequences of a payroll-tax increase of $40 a month for the
average working person. But for an average couple living in
suburbia, driving about 1,500 miles per person each month, in
two cars that get average gas mileage, a 50-cents-a-gallon
increase will cost them about 20 percent more than the payroll-
tax cut saves them. In their case, what the president and
Congress gives, the gas man takes away.  The potential economic impact of such a hit to the middle
class is obvious. Mass-market retailers have long correlated
even modest increases in gas prices with falling sales, which,
in turn, could damp the recovery. But even this understates the
political effect of rising gas prices, which is magnified for
three reasons.  First, working-class residents of suburbs and exurbs are
hit hardest -- and these are the families (and the areas) that
disproportionately account for swing voters in presidential
contests. Second, gas prices tend to surge sharply in states
that happen to be critical electoral battlegrounds -- especially
in the industrial heartland and the upper Midwest. And third,
big price increases almost always occur in the summer -- after
the primaries end and before the conventions -- when little else
is stirring the political conversation.  In each of the last three presidential elections, rising
gas prices have posed a particular problem, especially for the
Democratic presidential candidate. In 2008, the faltering
campaign of the Republican nominee, Senator  John McCain , was
revived in the late summer -- not just by Sarah Palin’s star
appeal, but also by the power of her “drill, baby, drill”
message as a purported response to rising gas prices.  This is a particularly difficult political problem for
Democrats, because the two most popular responses -- a cut in
gas taxes or an expansion of oil drilling -- are anathema to
critical party constituencies. Lower  gas-tax revenue  dries up
the funding source for building roads, bridges and transit
projects. This affects the working-class voters who derive their
livelihood from such projects. And expanding oil drilling --
beyond the aggressive plans that the administration has already
put forward -- would alienate conservation-minded voters who are
also important Obama supporters. Moreover, some environmentally
oriented voters believe that higher gas prices are a good thing,
as they provide an incentive for more conservation, less driving
and the purchase of more fuel-efficient vehicles.  Bad Choices  This dynamic creates three bad choices for Democratic
presidential candidates: abandon principled positions on
conservation and the environment, watch as working-class voters
critical to the candidacy rally behind ill-advised Republican
plans for gas-tax cuts and recklessly expanded oil production,
or suffer the political consequences of taking no action at all.  In 2008, the political fallout from the gas-tax issue faded
in the fall, as the price receded and the financial collapse in
September dwarfed all other concerns. But waiting for fall to
come, or hoping that other events will distract voters, isn’t a
strategy for coping with the economic and political challenge of
rising prices in 2012.  Instead, the White House should act boldly, and move
immediately to cope with the problem before it becomes
politically red hot.  One idea might be a “pocketbook protection” plan, which
would work as follows: If the average  price of gas  exceeds $4 a
gallon, an additional, automatic payroll tax cut of 1 percent
would kick in, as much as $50 per month, per person. The cut
would stay in place for at least 90 days; it would disappear
when the price fell below $4.00 per gallon.  There are three advantages to this approach. First, because
the plan is of limited duration and is capped at $50 a month,
its cost is relatively modest -- about $5 billion a month, or
$20 billion total, assuming the usual four-month gas-price
surge. Second, because it isn’t a reduction in gas taxes, it
doesn’t weaken any incentives for fuel conservation or
efficiency: All workers get $50 to soften the blow of higher gas
prices, but the less fuel they use, the more money they save.
And third, the relief provides the greatest relative help to
lower-income workers who need gas to commute and feel the price
pinch the hardest.  Ripple Effect  Admittedly, by decoupling the tax relief from gas-tax
collections, the pocketbook protection plan does give some
benefit to workers who don’t drive. But any such windfall is
modest, and even these non-drivers will need help dealing with
the ripple effect of rising gas prices on the costs of other
goods and services that are transportation-dependent.  The plan could be almost entirely paid for with a modest,
no-loopholes surcharge on corporate taxes on profit derived from
the higher gas prices. The administration would be able to avoid
pejorative terms such as “windfall” or “excess” profit tax,
because the tax is neither confiscatory nor punitive. With
higher gas prices,  oil companies  will make record profit -- and
a partial surcharge will still leave that profit at record high
levels. In other words, the plan isn’t vulnerable to suggestions
of creeping, soak-the-rich redistribution. It would leave in
place all incentives for oil companies to increase production,
do more research and development, and explore alternative fuels.
But a modest surcharge would help fund at least a partial
pocketbook protection program to make sure the cost of the oil
companies’ gain isn’t excessive pain for the rest of us.  With gas prices now rising in the winter (when they are
traditionally low), and increased anxiety about stability in the
 Middle East , all signs point to a surge this summer. By
developing and announcing a plan now, the administration can
avoid being unarmed when facing the horrible choice between
enduring the anger from voters hurt by gas prices or backing
Republican policies that are bad for conservation and the
environment.  The administration should take this chance to fill its tank
with political capital before the gauge says “E” -- for
economic peril.  ( Ron Klain , a former chief of staff to Vice President  Joe Biden  and a senior adviser to President Barack Obama on the
Recovery Act, is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is a senior
executive with a private investment firm. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ron Klain at  rklain@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 