-- Dell Falls After Forecast Misses Estimates: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-02-22T23:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/dell-misses-analysts-estimates-amid-sluggish-personal-computer-demand.html
Dell Inc. (DELL)  tumbled the most in six
months after its first-quarter sales forecast missed analysts’
estimates, dragged down by lackluster personal-computer demand
from consumers and governments.  Dell, the world’s third-largest maker of PCs, dropped 5.8
percent to $17.15, the biggest decline since Aug. 17. Before
today, the stock had  outperformed  the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index this year, which had climbed 8.3 percent.  Sluggish sales -- coupled with shrinking profit last
quarter -- have raised concerns about Dell’s comeback plan,
which has relied on streamlining operations to boost earnings.
After an almost 25 percent gain in Dell’s shares this year
before today, some investors may have been overly optimistic
about the company’s ability to turn around its operations, said
 Brian Marshall , an analyst at ISI Group Inc. in San Francisco.  “The ship is so big that to move the needle is a herculean
feat,” said Marshall, who has a “neutral” rating on the
shares. “Expectations are way too high.”  Revenue for the period ending in April will decrease 7
percent to $14.9 billion,  Round Rock , Texas-based Dell said in a
statement. That trailed the  average  $15.1 billion estimate of
analysts, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Fourth-quarter  net income  declined 18 percent to $764
million, or 43 cents a share, from $927 million, or 48 cents, a
year earlier. Sales rose 2 percent to $16 billion, in line with
analysts’ estimates. Excluding some items, earnings will be at
least $2.13 a share this fiscal year, Dell said.  Apple Competition  Sales in the consumer division fell 2 percent last quarter,
evidence that Apple Inc. is winning over buyers with its Mac and
iPad devices. Revenue in the business that caters to governments
slipped 1 percent amid “weakness” in purchasing by U.S.
federal agencies and governments in Western Europe, Dell said.  “When do we see revenue growth for the company start to
show up?” said Abhey Lamba, an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA
Inc. in  New York , who initiated coverage of Dell this month with
a “buy” rating. “They’ve been able to grow earnings because
of cost management and supply-chain improvements. But you can do
that for only so long. At a certain point, revenue needs to
start growing or else earnings will come down.”  Dell is suffering from competition with Apple at the high
end of the market and Lenovo Group Inc. and Acer Inc. at the low
end, Shaw Wu, an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc., wrote in a
research note earlier this month. Chief Executive Officer
Michael Dell, who retook the reins of the company in 2007, is
making deals and adding new products in a bid to revive growth
and focus on more profitable areas.  Tight Purse Strings  Consumers are keeping their wallets closed as they cope
with a slow economic recovery, and some are opting for iPads
instead of traditional  notebook computers . U.S. PC shipments
declined 4.9 percent last year, the worst performance since
2001, according to research firm IDC.  In addition, last year’s flooding in  Thailand  crimped disk-
drive production. The supply disruption will continue into the
quarter that ends in October, the company said.  Microsoft Corp.’s Windows 8 operating system, due later
this year, may provide a lift to consumer PC sales,  Michael Dell 
said yesterday on a conference call with analysts. It also will
entice business customers that want to buy tablets running
Windows, he said. Until now, most tablets have run software from
Apple or Google Inc.  “With Windows 8, there’s great excitement in the corporate
space for us,” Dell said. “There’s pretty strong appetite for
Windows 8 tablets in the enterprise.”  Business Strength  Dell also is selling more of its own data-storage and
networking gear, instead of relying on  products  made by such
companies as EMC Corp. Business computing demand is “pretty
strong,” Chief Financial Officer Brian Gladden said in an
interview. Sales to large corporations rose 5 percent last
quarter, while the unit that sells to small and midsize
businesses got a 6 percent boost, the company said.  Dell and rival  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  are counting on sales of
thin, lightweight laptops called “ultrabooks” to spur sales.
Dell’s new ultrabook, called the XPS 13, starts at $999. It’s
made of aluminum, carbon fiber and glass, sports a 13.3-inch
screen, and will go on sale later this month.  Dell also is diversifying beyond PCs. It bought computer
networking company Force 10 Networks Inc. last August for an
undisclosed price and storage maker Compellent Technologies a
year ago for about $856 million. On Feb. 2, it hired former CA
Inc. CEO John Swainson to head a new software group.  Software Deal?  Dell may be scouting for a software acquisition worth $1
billion to $3 billion, said  Peter Misek , an analyst at Jefferies
& Co. Misek has a “hold” rating on Dell shares.  Computer and data-management software makers Quest Software
Inc. and CommVault Systems Inc. are possible targets, he said.
BMC Software Inc., which makes tools to manage servers and has a
market value of about $6.5 billion, may be too large,.  Dell plans to hold a Feb. 27 event in  San Francisco  with
Michael Dell to discuss its data-center products. The company
will continue to acquire software companies, he said yesterday
on the conference call.  “There’s significant opportunity for us to build a big
business here,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in San Francisco at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Tom Giles  at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  