-- Denmark Steps Up Prefunding to Cut Risk as Euro Crisis Persists
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-02-21T14:43:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/denmark-steps-up-prefunding-to-cut-risk-as-euro-crisis-persists.html
Denmark ’s central bank said three
quarters of the state’s borrowing need for this year have been
met as it starts selling bonds to meet its 2013 requirement in a
bid to cut funding risks amid persistent market turbulence.  About 75 billion kroner ($13.4 billion) in bonds will be
sold this year, the central bank said today in its annual report
on government debt and borrowing. This year’s financing need is
28 billion kroner, after the bank sold 124 billion kroner in
2011. The bank has so far sold 20 billion kroner, mostly in 10-
and 30-year bonds, this year.  Denmark has served as a haven for investors fleeing the
euro area’s debt crisis, keeping yields at record lows even as
the Nordic country struggles with the fallout of a burst housing
bubble and a regional banking crisis. Denmark has paid less than
 Germany  to borrow for 10 years since Nov. 23, as investors turn
away from the euro region. Denmark is one of only 12 nations
ranked AAA at the three major ratings companies.  To keep investors committed, Denmark needs to rein in
 government spending , Governor Nils Bernstein said in today’s
statement.  “This crisis in the European sovereign debt markets has
made it clear that lender perception of a country’s
creditworthiness can change quickly,” Bernstein said. “It is
essential to maintain investor confidence, which is a condition
for low yields on Danish  government securities .”  Denmark’s debt will be 44.6 percent of gross domestic
product this year, compared with an average of 90.4 percent in
the euro area, the European Commission said in November.  Still, the commission said Feb. 14 it will review Denmark’s
economy because of high private sector debt in its first annual
Alert Mechanism Report. Denmark is among 12 countries the
commission said it will review under new rules on economic
governance in the 27-nation bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  