-- Yen Depreciates to Seven-Month Low Versus Dollar; Norwegian Krone Rallies
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-22T22:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/dollar-near-6-month-high-against-yen-on-economy-euro-holds-gain-on-greece.html
The yen weakened to a seven-month
low against the dollar as the highest yield premium on
Treasuries when compared with Japanese debt since August damped
the appeal of yen-denominated assets.  The yen fell for a fifth day, the most since April, after a
report showed sales of previously owned U.S. homes rose to the
highest in almost two years, bolstering expectations for growth
in  North America . It has weakened 3.7 percent since the  Bank of
Japan  on Feb. 14 unexpectedly expanded its asset-purchase
program. Norway’s krone rallied against all its major
counterparts as investors pared bets the central bank would cut
 interest rates  after unemployment unexpectedly declined.  “Given the movement we’ve seen in dollar-yen over the past
couple of years, this move is pretty significant,” said Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s
RBS Securities Inc. in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “There is a
possibility, not a certainty, that the BOJ is doing stealth
intervention now that we know that they did it before.”  The yen dropped 0.7 percent to 80.29 per dollar at 5 p.m.
New York time, after falling to 80.40, the weakest level since
July 11.  Japan ’s currency slid 0.8 percent to 106.38 per euro,
after sliding to 106.57 yen, the lowest since Nov. 14. The euro
rose 0.1 percent to $1.3249.  The  spread  between U.S. and Japanese two-year notes
expanded to 19.05 basis points yesterday, the most since Aug. 1,
according to closing-market data compiled by Bloomberg. The
difference was 18.6 basis points today.  Norway Employment  The krone, this month’s best performing major currency
against the dollar and the euro, strengthened 0.7 percent to
7.4865 per euro and 0.8 percent to 5.6506 per dollar.  Traders now expect a 0.1 percentage point interest rate
reduction from Norges Bank in the next 12 months, compared to
0.23 percent reduction a week ago, according to a Credit Suisse
Index based on swaps.  A report today showed  Norway ’s  unemployment fell  to 3.3
percent in the December quarter, when most economists surveyed
by Bloomberg had predicted no change from 3.4 percent in the
prior period.  Australia ’s dollar fell 0.2 percent to $1.0638 after the
resignation of Foreign Minister  Kevin Rudd , the former prime
minister who was ousted as leader in 2010. The move was
announced during a trip to  Washington  and opens the door for
Rudd to contest for the top post again.  Net-Longs  Futures traders pared bets the yen would appreciate versus
the dollar versus those it would weaken by 25,712 contracts in
the week ended Feb. 14. The so-called net-longs totaled 29,459
compared to 55,171 the previous week.  Borrowing in yen to buy higher-yielding currencies such as
 Brazil ’s real or  Mexico ’s peso  returned  2 percent month-to-date
according to the UBS V24 Carry Index.  The BOJ expanded its asset-purchase program to 30 trillion
yen ($374 billion) from 20 trillion, with 19 trillion yen set
aside for  government bonds . The central bank also said it will
target 1 percent inflation “for the time being.”  Consumer
prices (JNCPIYOY)  fell at a 0.2 percent annual rate in December, government
data show.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has told Japanese lawmakers
that policy makers set a price target to show the central bank’s
resolve and it will take further steps to end deflation.  “Everyone was really long yen early this year and now
people are selling their long positions and that is compounding
the move,” said Charles St-Arnaud, a foreign-exchange
strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in New York. “A lot of
participants have been waiting impatiently to be going long
dollar-yen.” A long is a bet an asset will appreciate, a short
a wager it will depreciate.  Home Sales  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which tracks the U.S. currency against
those of six major trading partners, climbed 0.2 percent to
79.198 after dropping 0.4 percent in the previous two days.  Sales of previously owned homes in the U.S. rose 4.3
percent in January to a 4.57 million annual rate, the highest
level since May 2010, according to a Bloomberg News survey
before the National Association of Realtors’ report today.  UBS AG raised its forecasts for the dollar versus the yen,
according to an e-mailed report. Nomura Holdings Inc. raised its
first-quarter dollar-yen forecast to 79 from 75 today.  “We now target a move to 85 by the end of this year and 90
by the end of 2013,” analysts including Mansoor Mohi-uddin in
 Singapore  wrote in the note. Previous projections were 80 yen
and 85 yen respectively, according to the report.  The median estimate of 49 strategists is 80 yen for the
fourth quarter of 2012. The forecast has been stable since Oct.
28.  Fitch Cuts Greece  The yen has depreciated 7.2 percent in the past three
months, the biggest decline among 10 developed nation peers
tracked by Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes. The dollar
weakened 3.2 percent, and the euro dropped 4 percent.  The euro held gains against the yen after  Fitch Ratings  cut
 Greece ’s credit rating to C from CCC. A default by the nation is
likely in the near term, the ratings company said in a statement
today.  “We’ve seen some decent rallies in the euro crosses, and
an unwinding of euro shorts is what is driving the market moves
at the moment,” said  David Mann , regional head of research for
the Americas at Standard Chartered in  New York . “It’s not
necessarily a euro-dollar story going on right now.”  The 17-nation currency has strengthened against all but
three of its major counterparts over the past week after
European Union finance ministers awarded 130 billion euros ($172
billion) in aid to Greece and reached an accord for greater debt
relief from investor representatives.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  