-- Draghi Maintains His Silence on ECB’s Role in Greek Bailout
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2012-02-21T12:59:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/draghi-stays-silent-on-ecb-role-in-greek-bailout.html
Mario Draghi  exited marathon talks
in Brussels today without commenting on the  European Central
Bank ’s role in a bailout for Greece, leaving it for finance
chiefs to announce that ECB profits from Greek bond holdings
will be funneled back to the debt-strapped nation.  The ECB will distribute the profits derived from its
 purchases  of Greek bonds to national central banks, who will
give the money to their governments to bolster Greece’s aid
package, euro-area finance ministers said in a statement. In a
new twist, governments also agreed to contribute the equivalent
of the profits their national central banks make on Greek bonds
in investment portfolios, the ministers said.  ECB President Draghi has yet to comment publicly on the
ECB’s involvement in the wrangling over  Greece  even as he
arranged to swap Greek bonds to avoid losses in a restructuring
and sought similar treatment for the region’s 17 national
central banks. While welcoming news that ministers agreed early
today on a second aid package for  Athens  after 13 hours of
talks, Draghi declined to comment when asked specifically by
reporters about the ECB’s stance.  Draghi was last week negotiating with Greece to swap the
Greek bonds in national central banks’ investment portfolios for
similar assets that are immune to so-called collective action
clauses, or CACs, to ensure they don’t take losses in a debt
restructuring, according to euro-area officials.  ECB Bond Swap  National central banks will indeed swap the Greek bonds in
those portfolios, another euro-area official said today on
condition of anonymity. The swap will happen today and is
identical to one the ECB carried out last week for the Greek
bonds in its asset-purchase program, the official said. An ECB
spokesman declined to comment.  Greece wanted the bonds in the portfolios to be included in
a private-sector deal aimed at slicing about 100 billion euros
($132 billion) off its debt, the officials said. The central
banks argued they would have dumped the bonds if they were
normal investors and that they shouldn’t be forced to take
losses on them.  A compromise may have been reached. Finance ministers
announced today that “governments of member states where
central banks currently hold Greek  government bonds  in their
investment portfolio commit to pass on to Greece an amount equal
to any future income accruing to their national central bank
stemming from this portfolio until 2020.”  That will reduce Greece’s debt ratio by 1.8 percentage
points by 2020 and lower its financing needs by about 1.8
billion euros, they said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Brussels at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  