-- Dragon Oil Says Iran Sanctions May Make Rig Payments ‘Difficult’
-- B y   E d u a r d   G i s m a t u l l i n
-- 2012-02-21T17:30:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/dragon-oil-says-iran-sanctions-may-make-rig-payments-difficult-.html
Dragon Oil Plc (DGO)  said tightening
international sanctions against Iran may make it “more
difficult” for the Dubai-based explorer to make payments for a
rig operating in the  Caspian Sea .  Dragon is using the  Iran-Khazar  rig, owned by National
Iranian Oil Co., to drill wells off  Turkmenistan . The company
has “ways to pay for it” without violating the sanctions, said
Chief Executive Officer Abdul Jaleel Al Khalifa. He declined to
elaborate.  “In future, it might become more difficult, but currently
we don’t have any problems,” Tarun Ohri, director of finance,
said today in an interview in  London .  The U.S. and European Union are imposing wider sanctions to
bring pressure on Iran to halt its nuclear program. The U.S. and
its allies say the program is a cover for developing atomic
weapons, a charge  Iran , the second-largest oil producer among
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, has denied,
maintaining it is for civilian purposes.  “We can live with the current sanctions rules,” Al
Khalifa said today in London. “We are abiding by them and keep
monitoring any new sanctions that come through and I don’t think
it will hurt our operations. I’ve clarified the use of Iran-
Khazar with people of the U.S. consulate in the Emirates.”  Dragon, which is focused on exploration in Turkmenistan,
today reiterated its plan to increase production to about
100,000 barrels of oil a day in 2015 from 61,500 a day on
average last year.  It’s considering expanding in West Africa after saying last
week it was examining plans to bid for  BowLeven Plc (BLVN) , a driller
working in Cameroon. Dragon has until mid-March to firm up plans
and inform the market whether it would bid or not, Ohri said.  The company is also considering a bid for licenses in  Iraq 
with possible partners later this year, Al Khalifa said. He
declined to name companies.  Dragon is in the process of relinquishing its last interest
in Yemen before exiting the country, the company said today in a
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduard Gismatullin in London at 
 egismatullin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  