-- Driverless Car Could Defy the Rules of Sprawl: Robert Bruegmann
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r u e g m a n n
-- 2012-02-21T00:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/driverless-car-could-defy-rules-of-sprawl-commentary-by-robert-bruegmann.html
From all reports, the driverless
car, once considered in the realm of science fiction, now looms
on the transportation horizon.  Nevada  last week became the first
state to issue regulations for the operation of  self-driving
vehicles , which, one transportation official claimed, are
“surely the future of automobiles.”  There has been a great deal of speculation about what
effect this  technology  will have on the way we use automobiles
and its implications for safety and legal liability. But how
will it change the American city? For example, might it allow
drivers to commute even farther in relative comfort and safety
and thus accelerate sprawl in our urban areas?  At first glance, this would appear to be a logical
conclusion. Each successive breakthrough in transportation
technology in the past few hundred years, from the steam
railroad and horse-drawn streetcar to the automobile and
airplane, has increased mobility, and this development has
accompanied more dispersed, lower-density settlement patterns in
almost every urban area in the world.  But this outcome is by no means inevitable. In thinking
about transportation, it is too easy to become mired in old and
inadequate assumptions. One is a belief in technological
determinism -- that a given technology will have a specific set
of consequences on society. In fact, almost every technological
innovation, like almost every new human tool, can lead to
strikingly divergent results.  Railroad Example  The railways of the 19th century, for example, were a
potent factor in the piling-up of business and population at the
center of large industrial cities at exactly the same moment
that they allowed a substantial percentage of urban dwellers to
live in ever-more-remote suburbs. Although the rise in
automobile use has happened in a period that witnessed a vast
decentralization of cities and lowering of densities, that
result has by no means been inevitable. The Phoenix and Los
Angeles urban areas are overwhelmingly dependent on automobile
transportation, but their densities have increased substantially
in recent decades.  Another obstacle to clear thinking about transportation is
a tendency to believe that there is some deep inherent
difference between private and public transportation -- the
automobile versus the bus, for example -- and that they are
radically different and competing modes. This has been an
article of faith among those who urge policies that discourage
automobile use and encourage public transportation as a way to
cut traffic congestion, fuel consumption and greenhouse-gas
emissions.  But given the technical advances of recent years, trains
and particularly buses are no longer necessarily more fuel-
efficient per vehicle mile traveled than the automobile. For the
vast majority of trips, they are much slower. At best, policies
encouraging transit use at the expense of automobiles involve
painful trade-offs.  The driverless car might well substantially alter all the
equations: the division between public and private, the
collective and individual. Transportation policy has never been
as clear as the polemics on the subject would suggest. The taxi,
for example, has long shared characteristics of each. In recent
years, the divide between public and private transport has been
further eroded with the  Zipcar (ZIP) , Super Shuttle and other on-
demand vehicles such as Personal Rapid Transit, a system of
small automated vehicles running on guideways. A pioneering and
successful example of PRT, constructed in the 1970s, can still
be seen in operation in Morgantown,  West Virginia .  Flexible System  What the driverless automobile might do is further break
down the distinctions. Suppose an individual can summon a
vehicle on demand -- a small capsule like a  golf cart  for doing
errands in the city, for example, or something more like a van
to transport a track team to another city -- and that vehicle
can go directly from starting point to destination. The
flexibility this system could provide might well reduce the
incentive for owning an automobile, which has to serve all
purposes, is expensive to buy and maintain, and in most cases
spends most of its time taking up valuable space in a garage or
parking lot.  If the driverless car reduces congestion by maximizing the
use of existing highways and taking passengers farther and
faster with greater comfort, it could lead to even more
dispersed cities. But it could also have the opposite effect.  Given the large amount of space devoted to roads and
parking in American cities, even minor increases in collective
use of vehicles could lead to less need for new pavement and
parking and to higher residential and commercial densities. This
would reinforce a trend that is already visible, as new
development at the far suburban edge of most urban regions is
currently being created at higher densities than in the past and
there is a great deal of infill in city centers and close-in
suburbs.  Although the driverless automobile, like almost every
technological advance, will undoubtedly bring on a great many
new problems, it could also help ease several existing problems
caused by the automobile, notably traffic fatalities and
congestion. An important prerequisite for increasing the
benefits and reducing the negative side effects is to abandon
some of the reflex thinking that currently hobbles
transportation planning.  A place to start is the widely held, but dubious,
assumption that we should plan our cities around some particular
transportation system. To facilitate buses and trains, many
people advocate turning the clock backward and creating a denser
urban fabric of the kind that was necessary for 19th-century
industrial cities. There is nothing wrong with living in this
way if it is what most people choose to do. The arrival of the
automobile, however, gave urban dwellers a great deal more
mobility and flexibility in how they lived, and a large number
opted for more dispersed settlements.  The driverless car could well extend that flexibility in
dramatic fashion, combining some characteristics of automobiles
and public transportation and allowing people more choice in the
way they live, whether it involves more compact, high-density
cities, more dispersed low-density settlements -- call it sprawl
if you like -- or, perhaps most likely, all of the above.  (Robert Bruegmann is a professor emeritus of art history,
architecture and urban planning at the  University of Illinois  at
 Chicago  and the author of “Sprawl: A Compact History.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Robert Bruegmann at  bbrueg@uic.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 