-- Dublin Offices to Revive as Facebook, Google Add Space
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-24T11:58:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/dublin-office-market-set-to-revive-as-facebook-google-add-space.html
(Corrects percentage of Dublin office space bought or
leased in 2011 in fifth paragraph of story published Feb. 21.)  When Bill Clinton told American
executives that they’d be  “nuts”  not to invest in Ireland,
many were already ahead of the former president. U.S. companies
were behind almost 40 percent of offices bought or leased in
Dublin in 2011 and the trend is likely to accelerate this year.  Internet companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Yelp Inc. (YELP)  are
looking for additional space in the Irish capital, as are
 Salesforce.com Inc., (CRM)   Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK)  and  Citigroup
Inc. (C) , according to people with knowledge of the searches.
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  is seeking to more than double the size of its
European headquarters in Dublin, three people briefed on the
plans said in January, and PayPal Inc. said today it will hire
1,000 people to work at a building near the Irish capital.  The financial crisis that caused Ireland to seek a 67.5
billion-euro ($89 billion) international bailout in 2010 drove
down commercial property rents as well as labor costs and
sparked new government initiatives to attract investment. U.S.
companies leased or bought about nine times more space in Dublin
last year than they did in 2007, according to  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   “Dublin is a much more cost-competitive destination than
it may have been before,” said Robert O’Shea, a partner at
legal firm Matheson Ormsby Prentice who advises U.S. companies
on moving to Ireland. “That is reflected in the pipeline of
projects we would see for 2012 and 2013.”  U.S. companies were involved in 38 percent of the office
purchases or leases in Dublin last year, up from 23 percent in
2007, according to CBRE. Google’s purchase of the 210,000-
square-foot (19,500-square-meter) Montevetro building in April
alone equaled about 14 percent of all Dublin’s office space
bought or leased in 2011. The absorption of existing prime space
means more U.S. companies will probably need offices built for
them.  Selling Ireland  Foreign direct investment in Ireland rose to $18.3 billion
in 1999 from $838 million in 1994, according to the  United
Nations , as the so-called Celtic Tiger boomed. Much of the
investment came from U.S. companies like  Intel Corp ., the
world’s largest chipmaker, and medical-products developer
Medtronic Inc., which were attracted by a low corporate tax rate
and inexpensive labor.  Since the financial collapse, the Irish government has been
promoting the country’s affordability and its links to the U.S.
as it tries to create  100,000  jobs by 2016 and reduce
unemployment of 14.2 percent. Real estate in Ireland is “a
steal,” Clinton told a forum of investors including private-
equity executives Henry Kravis of KKR & Co. and  Wilbur Ross  of
WL Ross & Co. on Feb. 9, according to the Irish Examiner.  Cheaper Now  IDA Ireland, the government agency responsible for
attracting overseas investment, has a full-time employee whose
job is to inform multinationals about Ireland’s falling rents,
wages and construction costs. Ireland was the fifth most
expensive location in the world for office accommodation in
2007, today it’s 45th, IDA Chief Executive Officer Barry O’Leary
said in an interview.  Commercial rents in Dublin are now around 55 percent lower
than when the market peaked in 2007, and apartment rental costs
are down by more than 60 percent, O’Shea said. Labor
productivity rose 7.6 percent from 2008, the second most of the
27 countries that make up the European Union, which averaged 5.4
percent, according to an analysis byConstantin Gurdgiev, an
adjunct lecturer in finance at Trinity College in Dublin.  Favorable Taxes  A corporate  tax rate  of 12.5 percent is a vital part of the
attraction for U.S. companies, he said. So is transfer pricing,
which involves the allocation of income between units in
different countries to avoid taxes. Changes in copyright
legislation are being considered and  tax breaks  are being
offered to overseas workers who relocate to Ireland as the
government seeks to attract more U.S. investment.  The 591,000 square feet of commercial space purchased or
rented by U.S. businesses compares with about 59,000 square feet
in 2007.  Most of the U.S. companies opening in Dublin “put a toe in
the water to see what it’s like, see it’s easy to get good staff
and then start expanding,” Fidelma Healy, chief operating
officer at e-commerce company Gilt Groupe (Ireland), said in an
interview. The company has about 70 employees in Ireland, 20 of
them in Dublin, after it opened there last year.  MasterCard Inc. will add 130 employees in Dublin over the
next four years and expand into new offices, the company said
Feb. 15, without disclosing a new location.  Yelp, a social-networking and local-search company based in
 San Francisco , is also among the companies seeking to add space
in Dublin,  Jones Lang  LaSalle Inc. said in a January report.  Google Wants More  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , has 2,200
employees in Dublin, said IDA’s O’Leary. More than  3,000  will
eventually be employed in its European headquarters there,
according to a filing by the company’s Irish unit. The company
is close to leasing 32,000 square feet of space at East Point
business park, according to two people familiar with the matter.
The talks were first reported in the Irish Times in November.
Celine Crawford, a Google spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Another Mountain View-based company,  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD) , leased
space in 2011 and has increased the number of employees to about
175 from 30 since last year, according to O’Leary.  Facebook is seeking to more than double the size of its
European headquarters in Dublin ahead of its $5 billion initial
public offering and is considering leasing the former Bank of
Ireland headquarters building. More than 350 people work at its
Dublin office, set up in 2008, according to O’Leary at the IDA.  Facebook Search  The social-networking site is also considering leasing part
of the Ulster Bank headquarters in the city, according to two
people familiar with the matter. They declined to be identified
because the information isn’t public. Facebook, based in  Menlo
Park , California, and Ulster Bank’s parent company,  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) , declined to comment.  Most of the social-networking companies have leased space
near the city’s south docklands. That’s so they can recruit one
another’s staff, said  John Moran , managing director at Jones
Lang’s Irish division. Endorsement from peers “is always
enormously important,” which is why companies tend to cluster
in a location, he said.  PayPal, an online-payment company owned by  EBay Inc. (EBAY) , plans
to build up the staff at its new European Operations Centre in
Dundalk over four years. The town is about 50 miles (80
kilometers) from Dublin.  Shortage of Space  Though Dublin’s office vacancy rate is 19.5 percent,
according to Jones Lang, a shortage of prime office space
suitable for use by U.S. companies is emerging. That could spur
new development of prime offices and rising rents.  Moran is seeking a 165,000 square-foot headquarters
building for  Bank of New York Mellon  in Dublin. “To find a
building in the location that we want, which is primarily south
docklands, it will have to be built for us because there’s no
pre-existing building of a size that actually suits our
requirement,” he said in an interview.  Tenants that need new buildings will have to pay about 35
euros a square foot to make it worthwhile for the developer to
build them, Moran said. Prime rents are about 20 percent less
than that at present, according to the broker.  Paddy Kelly, a developer whose Dublin-based company built
offices in the city for U.S. companies including Compaq Computer
Corp. and United Parcel Service Inc., said the expansion by U.S.
companies won’t spark a recovery in the country’s economy. Kelly
wants the government to offer incentives to draw more
international companies.  The IDA hopes to secure at least four more projects valued
at $100 million to $420 million within four months, O’Leary said
in a Jan. 20 interview. He declined to say how many of them will
be located in Dublin.  Interested Industries  Financial-services and information-technology companies are
expressing an interest in expanding, said Paddy Conlon, a CBRE
director who advises multinationals seeking to set up or enlarge
operations in Ireland. “A number of pharmaceutical companies
are also looking to expand into Ireland” and others are
considering moving their headquarters there, he said.  A willingness by landlords to sign three- to five-year
leases suits U.S. companies because it allows them flexibility
to expand, he said. “Rent is still a major factor, but it’s not
just about rent.”  The shortage of buildings suitable for headquarters is “an
opportunity to look at putting maybe some investment into that
sector,”  Brendan McDonagh , head of Ireland’s National Asset
Management Agency, said by e-mail. State-run NAMA is
“optimistic” that it will do deals with “a number of
multinationals” in the coming months, he said. NAMA is
liquidating bad assets of Irish banks.  Business District  Ireland’s Electricity Supply Board is considering an office
building at its current headquarters in the central business
district. Public transport agency CIE has sought permission to
develop 81,500 square meters of  office space , equivalent to
nearly a third of the Empire State Building in  Manhattan , next
to Dublin’s International Financial Service Centre.  Irish telecommunications billionaire Denis O’Brien, who
controls the largest Caribbean mobile-phone operator, Digicel
Group Ltd., may develop an office block on St. Stephen’s Green
without a tenant agreeing to lease it in advance, according to
Moran, who advises O’Brien on real estate.  The Spencer Dock Development Company Ltd. received
 permission  on Feb. 15 to build an office block with about
209,000 square feet (19,400 square meters) of space on Dublin’s
north docks. The property will be leased by a “significant
international firm,” according to the planning documents.  Clondean Ltd. received planning approval for an office
block close to LinkedIn’s Irish headquarters earlier this month.
The developer planned to develop apartments on the site before
the residential market collapsed.  Center and South  Salesforce aims to rent office space in south Dublin and
Citigroup’s Citibank is weighing renting office space near the
city center, according to people familiar with the matter who
declined to be named because they were not authorized to discuss
it. Kerry Grove, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Salesforce, and Tara O’Reilly, a spokeswoman for New York-based
Citigroup, declined to comment.  The IDA is already looking for the next wave of companies
that will open in Ireland, O’Leary said. The organization keeps
a list of companies run by former Google employees it encounters
to identify future expansion candidates. The rapid growth of
companies like Facebook, Zynga Inc. and Twitter Inc. led the IDA
to set up a new unit in 2010 targeting companies with less than
$30 million a year in revenue. Thirty five of them have since
set up in Ireland, he said.  “We’ve already got the top 10 companies born of the
Internet,” said O’Leary. “We ain’t gonna stop at that.” 