-- Munch ‘Scream’ May Fetch at Least $80 Million at Sotheby’s
-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 2012-02-21T14:05:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/edward-munch-s-the-scream-may-sell-for-at-least-80-million-at-sotheby-s.html
One of the best-known images in the
history of art,  Edvard Munch ’s “The Scream,” is being sold at a
 New York  auction in May.  The 1895 work by the Norwegian artist, one of four versions
of the screaming figure, will be included in Sotheby’s May 2
sale of Impressionist and modern works. It carries a value of at
least $80 million, the auction house said in an e-mailed release
today.  Masterpieces by big-name Impressionist and modern artists
have been fetching exceptional prices in recent years. Sotheby’s
“Scream” is the only one left in private hands. It is being
offered by the Norwegian businessman Petter Olsen, whose father
Thomas was a friend and patron of the artist. The pastel-on-
board composition has been in the Olsen family for more than 70
years. The primary version of the work, in tempera and crayon on
board and dating from 1893, is in the National Gallery of
 Norway .  “I have lived with this work all my life, and its power and
energy have only increased with time,” Olsen said in an e-mailed
statement. “Now however, I feel the moment has come to offer the
rest of the world a chance to own and appreciate this remarkable
work.”  Munch Museum  Proceeds from the sale will go toward the establishment of
a new museum, art center and hotel on Olsen’s farm, Ramme Gaard
at Hvitsten, Norway. It will open next year in connection with
the Munch 150th anniversary, and will be dedicated to the
artist’s work and time there.  The primary version of “The Scream” was stolen from the
National Gallery in 1994 and recovered several months later.
Another was taken from the Munch Museum in Norway in 2004 and
recovered after two years.  The image, evoking a moment when the artist was seized with
anxiety while walking along a road near Oslo, was to be the
central element in his “Frieze of Life” series.  Of the variants, this  Sotheby’s (BID)  version is closest in
composition to the one in Norway’s National Gallery. The pre-
auction view in New York will be the first time it has been
exhibited in the U.S. for decades, said Sotheby’s. It is also
notable for having a hand-painted inscription by Munch on the
frame, explaining the genesis of the work.  Shivering Sunset  “I was walking along the road with two friends, the sun was
setting,” reads the frame. “The sky turned a bloody red and I
felt a whiff of melancholy. I stood still, deathly tired -- over
the blue-black fjord and city hung blood and tongues of fire. My
friends walked on -- I remained behind. Shivering with anxiety,
I felt the great scream in nature.”  Pablo Picasso ’s 1932 painting of his mistress Marie-Therese
Walter, “Nude,  Green Leaves  and Bust,” sold for a record $106.5
million at  Christie’s International (CHRS)  in New York in May 2010.
Last year, Paul Cezanne’s painting “The Card Players” was bought
by the emirate of Qatar for $250 million, the most ever paid for
a work of art, Vanity Fair magazine reported on Feb. 2.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 