-- Megaupload’s Dotcom Wins Release on Bail
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-02-22T06:11:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/megaupload-s-dotcom-wins-release-on-bail-amid-u-s-copyright-indictment.html
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom,
imprisoned in  New Zealand  since Jan. 20 at the request of the
U.S., won release today as a judge ruled he isn’t a flight risk
and should be freed on bail.  “The factors relating to flight risk are not now of such
concern that there remains just cause to continue to remand Mr.
Dotcom in custody,” North Shore District Court Judge N. R.
Dawson said in a 13-page written ruling e-mailed by New
Zealand’s  Justice Department .  Dotcom, 38, is sought in the U.S., where he was indicted in
the biggest copyright infringement conspiracy in the country’s
history. He faces charges in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files.  In a revised indictment filed in a U.S. court in Alexandria,
 Virginia , on Feb. 17, Dotcom was charged with three new criminal
copyright counts and five new wire-fraud counts. Those are in
addition to one count of racketeering, one count of conspiring
to commit  money laundering  and two counts of criminal copyright
infringement charges that were unsealed by the U.S. on Jan. 19
following the arrests of four individuals, including Dotcom, in
Auckland.  The racketeering and money-laundering charges carry maximum
penalties of 20 years in prison.  The conspiracy deprived copyright owners of more than $500
million, the U.S. government said.  Denied Misconduct  Dotcom, who legally changed his family name from Schmitz,
had sought to overturn North Shore District Court Judge David
McNaughton’s Feb. 16 denial of his bail request. His three co-
defendants were granted bail.  Dotcom earlier “emphatically” denied any criminal
misconduct, in a statement to the court, according to
McNaughton’s ruling.  Dawson said new factors affected his decision to grant bail,
including submissions that Dotcom doesn’t have the money to
leave New Zealand, with his bank accounts having been seized by
authorities in that country, as well as  Hong Kong  and the U.K.  Keeping Dotcom in jail until an extradition hearing, which
probably won’t happen until July, would be “onerous and
effectively punitive,” Dawson wrote.  1 Billion Visits  Megaupload advertised that it had more than 1 billion
visits to the site, more than 150 million registered users and
50 million daily visitors, and accounted for 4 percent of
 Internet traffic , prosecutors said. The  site  was shut down by
the U.S. Justice Department and now shows an FBI anti-piracy
warning, saying the domain name has been seized pursuant to an
order issued by a U.S. District Court.  “It is submitted that this is the largest prosecution to
date for infringement of copyright in the  United States ,”
McNaughton said in his ruling. “The offending is described as
unprecedented and most serious.”  When police arrived at Dotcom’s house on Jan. 20, he
activated electronic locks and sought refuge in a safe room, New
Zealand police said in a statement. Police neutralized locks and
cut their way into the safe room, where Dotcom was sitting
cross-legged on the floor near a safe that contained a loaded
shotgun.  The U.S. has 45 days from the arrest date to file a formal
extradition request.  New Zealand’s Justice Department didn’t immediately respond
to a phone and e-mail messages asking whether a formal
extradition request from the U.S. has been received.  The case is Kim Dotcom v.  United States of America . DCNSD
[25 January 2012]. District Court at North Shore ( Albany ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net . 