-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline For First Time in Three Days on Greek Woes
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-21T22:55:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/emerging-stocks-drop-as-oil-increase-overshadows-greece-bailout-package.html
Emerging-market stocks dropped for
the first time in three days on concern  Europe  will continue to
struggle even after a second rescue package for  Greece .  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.2 percent to
1,064.41 at the close in New York, retreating from a more-than
six-month high reached yesterday.  Mexico ’s  IPC Index (IPC)  slid the
most in a month as  Genomma Lab Internacional SAB (LABB)  fell to a four-
month low on concern it may increase debt to make an
acquisition. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  dropped the most in two
months, while Turkey’s benchmark gauge declined for the first
time in five days.  European finance ministers approved a second bailout of 130
billion euros ($173 billion) in aid for Greece by tapping into
European Central Bank profits and coaxing investors into
providing more debt relief to shield the region from a default.
The nation’s debt may still balloon to 160 percent of gross
domestic product in a worst-case scenario, analysis by the
 International Monetary Fund  and European officials indicates.  “Emerging markets are still focused on what’s happening in
the  euro zone ,” Simon Quijano-Evans, an emerging-markets
economist at ING Groep NV, said by phone from  London . “The euro
zone has confirmed that it will not let Greece default in the
short term, but we obviously need to start seeing longer-term
issues like a fiscal union being concretized.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 16 percent this
year, while the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed-nation stocks
advanced 9.5 percent. Emerging-market shares trade for 12 times
reported earnings, and reached the most expensive level in eight
months yesterday. Shares on the MSCI World are valued at 14.4
times earnings.  Iran Boosts Crude  Oil rose to the highest level in nine months in New York on
speculation that the Greek deal will boost demand as increasing
tensions between  Iran  and the West put pressure on supply. Oil
futures for March delivery, which expired today, advanced 2.5
percent to $105.84 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the highest settlement since May 4.  United Co. Rusal PLC (RUALR)  declined 4.2 percent in Moscow as
aluminum futures fell for a second day in  Shanghai . The Micex
slid 1.3 percent, the most since Dec. 21.  Mexico’s  IPC Index (MEXBOL)  lost 1.1 percent, the biggest drop since
Jan. 13. Genomma Lab, a producer of over-the-counter drugs, made
an offer to buy  Prestige Brands Holdings Inc. (PBH)  for $834 million
today. The acquirer’s stock dropped 9.4 percent as investors
worried the purchase will increase debt, said Aldo Miranda, a
trader at Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA.  Brazilian and Argentinean markets were closed for holidays
yesterday and today and will trade for half a day tomorrow.
Indian and U.S. markets were shut yesterday.  Turkish Banks  Banks including  Turkiye Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB)  led Turkey’s  ISE
National 100 Index (XU100)  0.3 percent lower. State-run Halkbank dropped
0.8 percent in Istanbul.  South Africa ’s  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH)  gained 0.1
percent as higher metals prices boosted resources companies.
 Anglo American Plc (AAL)  rose 1.3 percent in Johannesburg and  BHP
Billiton Ltd. (BIL) , the world’s biggest mining company, added 0.7
percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  gained 0.8 percent, reversing
losses of the same amount, on speculation the government will
adopt more measures to ease a cash squeeze after cutting banks’
reserve-requirement ratios for the second time in two months
over the weekend.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. ,
 China ’s largest lender, gained 1.4 percent and  China
Construction Bank Corp. (601939)  added 0.6 percent as the People’s Bank
of China’s move sent money-market rates lower.  Kospi Steady  China Telecom Corp. (728)  gained 4.1 percent in  Hong Kong , the
most in six months, after saying it will start offering Apple
Inc.’s iPhone 4S next month.  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490) , the nation’s biggest carrier, dropped
6.4 percent after Deutsche Bank AG recommended selling the
stock.  Asiana Airlines Inc. (020560)  lost 4.4 percent on concern fuel
prices will increase. The benchmark  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  was little
changed.  The BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.8 percent
to the highest level since July 27.  Bharat Heavy Electricals
Ltd. (BHEL) , the country’s biggest producer of power equipment,
advanced 4.8 percent to a three-month high after Power Secretary
P. Uma Shankar said that the government will probably approve a
proposal to levy a 19 percent import tax.  The  extra yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries fell nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, to 366 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  