-- Emotional Adele Adds Top Brit Music Awards to Grammy Successes
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-02-22T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/emotional-adele-adds-top-brit-music-awards-to-grammy-successes-for-album.html
An emotional Adele led winners at
the  Brit  music awards in London last night.  The singer, who has recovered from career-saving throat
surgery, followed her six Grammy wins this month by capturing
the top British music industry honors. Her “21” was chosen
MasterCard British album of the year and she was also named best
U.K. solo female artist, beating Jessie J, Kate Bush, Florence &
the Machine, and last year’s winner  Laura Marling .  “I’m so proud to be flying the British flag for all of
you,” she started her second victory speech of the evening. As
the live TV show ran out of time, she was then cut off by host,
comedian James Corden. He was booed by the audience and Adele
made a middle-finger gesture that she later told reporters was
directed at “the suits” behind the ceremony, not her fans.  Ed Sheeran, 21, also picked up two awards, for best British
solo male artist and best British breakthrough act. A Brit win
may add as much as 5 million pounds ($7.9 million) to an album’s
sales, a certain boon for record-company bosses at the O2 event.  “It’s been an amazing year,” Adele told the audience
after her first win, saying she was shaking with emotion. “I’d
like to thank my record company for letting me be the kind of
artist I want to be.”  She sang “Rolling at the Deep” in what was only her
second live performance since her operation in 2011. As Adele
hit the high notes of the chorus, “we could have had it all,”
there was a standing ovation from those listening.  Fan Campaigns  Adele and Sheeran were beaten to the prize for best single,
voted for in an online poll and often subject to huge campaigns
by fans. It went to former X Factor boy-band One Direction for
“What Makes You Beautiful.”  Bruno Mars was named international male solo artist,
following his international-breakthrough nomination in 2011.
Rihanna was picked best international female artist for a second
year and Lana Del Rey was best international breakthrough
artist.  Coldplay won the best British group for the third time. The
band has sold more than 55 million records worldwide. Dave Grohl’s  Foo Fighters  won the international band trophy.  The  Brits  are the  British Phonographic Industry’s  annual
pop-music awards and presented in one form or another since
1977. They have been sponsored by  Mastercard Inc. (MA)  for the last
14 years. Winners also receive a Brit statuette designed by
Peter Blake, the pop artist who created the “Sgt. Pepper’s
Lonely Hearts Club Band” sleeve for the Beatles.  Best Producer  Ethan Johns was named best British producer. Johns, whose
father Glyn worked with the Eagles and Led Zeppelin, has
recently produced tracks by Laura Marling, the Kings of Leon and
Ryan Adams. He is about to be inducted into the Rock and Hall of
Fame in April too.  The best-producer award was known in advance of the
ceremony, as was the outstanding contribution to music prize for
Blur -- the band will also be performing at the  London  Olympics
closing concert this year. The Critics’ Choice went to Emeli
Sande, a former medical student whose impressive debut album
“Our Version of Events” released this month showcases her
soulful voice and songwriting.  Kid Next Door  Sande, Sheeran and Adele’s music has won acclaim for
putting kid-next-door emotional appeal above polished pop and
crafted images.  Last year, Adele won a standing ovation at the Brits for
her emotional performance of “Someone Like You,” which was
accompanied only by a piano. That performance has been watched
more than 90 million times on YouTube.  The event last night, opened by Coldplay and closed by
Blur, was held at the  O2  for a second year after the Earl’s
Court Exhibition Centre closed.  Brits caterers  Payne & Gunter  had a team of 60 chefs and
550 waiting staff, serving 5,200 pieces of crostini and 1,200
lamb best ends. Record-company executives delighted in jokes
about which nominee would eat or drink the lot.  Woes about download piracy and CD sales seemed forgotten as
the after-show parties started up.  All CDs are at prices from about $13 in the U.S. or 9
pounds in the U.K. Download rates vary across services.  Information:  http://www.brits.co.uk/   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at 
 mbeech@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 