-- Tencent Pivots From PC to IPhone for China’s $4.2 Billion Online Ads: Tech
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-02-22T11:00:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/tencent-pivoting-from-pc-to-iphone-for-china-s-online-ads-tech.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  is  China ’s
biggest Internet company, with 430 million users. Even so, it is
only No. 6 in attracting advertising because its customers are
considered students and farmers without much discretionary
income.  Enter the smartphone.  China’s online advertising market expanded more than 40
percent to $4.2 billion last year, according to Media Partners
 Asia . The industry may exceed $10 billion by 2015, it said.
Tencent Chief Executive Officer Ma Huateng is wooing that money
by shifting his focus from personal computers to mobile devices.  As many as 75 million smartphones will be sold in the
world’s biggest Internet market this year, 29 percent more than
2011, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co., and those users are
often members of China’s growing middle class.  “It’s the right strategy,” said Billy Leung, an analyst
at OSK Securities in Hong Kong, who recommends buying the stock.
“High-end users have the ability to spend more.”  The market agrees: Following a 7.6 percent decline in 2011,
Tencent shares have jumped 26 percent in Hong Kong this year,
outperforming the gains in  Baidu Inc. (BIDU) , China’s biggest search-
engine company, and  NetEase.com Inc. (NTES) , the second-biggest Chinese
online games operator.  Tencent rose 1.9 percent to HK$197.20 at close today,
valuing the company at HK$362.9 billion ($47 billion), more than
U.S. Internet companies  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  and  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)   Apple, Google  Tencent’s QQ.com is China’s most popular website, while
 Sina (SINA)  Corp.’s Sina.com ranks third, according to data from China
Websites Ranking.  Still,  Sina (SINA)  had $101 million of ad revenue in the third
quarter, compared with about $95 million for Tencent, according
to earnings data reported by the companies.  “Advertisers have regarded their users as low-end,” said
Dick Wei, an analyst at JPMorgan. Tencent’s websites carry fewer
ads for luxury cars and prime real estate, compared with Sina,
he said.  To change that, Shenzhen-based Tencent introduced its
Weixin messaging service for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhones and devices
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system.  A 16-gigabyte iPhone 4S costs 4,988 yuan ($792) at Apple’s
online store in China, or more than double the average monthly
wage in the country.  Facebook, Twitter  Weixin offers improved features for social networking
compared with Tencent’s own Mobile QQ wireless-chat software --
important in a country where services by Facebook Inc. and
Twitter Inc. are restricted by government censorship. Weixin
users can receive alerts about text, voice and video messages
even if they aren’t opening the application, while QQ users need
to be logged on to access information.  Dundas Deng, an analyst at Guotai Junan Securities in
Shenzhen, said he uses Weixin on his iPhone to locate other
contacts in his vicinity. The service includes a technology that
displays contacts within a user-specified geographical area that
are on the network, he said. QQ has a similar feature.  “All the operators are trying to enhance the social-
networking features of their service because that will help make
them more sticky,” said Deng, who recommends buying the shares.  Tencent has signed up 50 million people since last year for
Weixin, and that may more than triple by 2013, said JPMorgan’s
Wei.  High-End Users  Demand for Weixin, a free service, will help drive a third
of Tencent’s Internet users to access the company’s services on
their mobile devices by next year, said Wei, who has an
“overweight” rating on the company’s stock.  Winning users with higher incomes will help Tencent boost
online advertising, said Vivek Couto,  executive director  at
media consultants Media Partners Asia in  Singapore . The per
capita income of Chinese households in cities and towns has
 doubled  in six years.  “They are making a more concerted effort to win over the
higher-end demographics,” Couto said.  Tencent accounted for 4.1 percent of China’s online
advertising market in the fourth quarter, according to research
company Analysys International. The company ranked behind Baidu,
 Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (ALIBABZ) , Google,  Sohu.com Inc. (SOHU)  and Sina in ad
sales, according to Analysys.  “With the adoption by smartphone users with 3G data plans,
Weixin is then helping Tencent to sign up a more high-end mobile
user base,” Catherine Chan, a spokeswoman for Tencent, said in
an e-mail.  Weixin, Mobile QQ  Weixin is the most popular social-networking application
for iPhone users in China after Tencent’s Mobile QQ, according
to Analysys. Tencent introduced Weixin in January 2011, 12 years
after offering QQ.  “Even before Weixin, we have attracted some high-end
advertisers with our young user base,” Tencent’s Chan said.  The surge in Weixin users will allow Tencent to boost e-
commerce revenue through partnerships with retailers, said Qin
Weijie, an analyst at PingAn Securities in Beijing.  “The location-based technology of Weixin gives it a lot of
potential in mobile commerce,” said Qin, who rates the stock
“strong buy.”  Offering online games, entertainment and lifestyle services
to QQ users, while keeping the basic messaging service free, has
helped Tencent boost revenue. Games accounted for more than half
of the company’s third-quarter revenue of 7.5 billion yuan.  IAd Similarities  Tencent may also increase sales by placing advertising in
mobile-phone apps accessed by Weixin users, similar to Apple’s
iAd mobile advertising system, according to JPMorgan’s Wei.  Alibaba Group, China’s biggest e-commerce company,
introduced its AliCloud service in July to add mobile phone
users, while Baidu said in December its mobile-phone technology
platform was included in a new  Dell Inc. (DELL)  handset in China.  Spending on developing new services is putting pressure on
its margins. Tencent’s third-quarter profit missed analysts’
estimates.  Earnings in the fourth quarter are estimated to grow at a
slower pace. Profit may increase 15 percent to 2.52 billion
yuan, according to the average of nine analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Weixin isn’t expected to generate revenue for the company
“anytime soon,” said Jiong Shao, who rates Tencent
“underperform” at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Hong Kong.  Tencent’s Weixin leads in China’s mobile instant-messaging
services market, with more users than services offered by
WhatsApp Inc. and Xiaomi Corp., according to JPMorgan.  “The mobile instant-messaging market is a winner-takes-all
market,” Deng said. “And users tend to go for the service that
their friends are using.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  