-- EON Said to Proceed With Energy Asset Sales in Germany
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-22T16:42:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/eon-said-to-proceed-with-german-energy-asset-sales-luring-funds.html
EON AG (EOAN) ,  Germany ’s largest utility,
is proceeding with the sale of energy assets in its home market
valued at as much as 4.5 billion euros ($5.9 billion) as it
seeks to cut debt and raise cash for growth elsewhere, according
to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The sale of the Dusseldorf-based utility’s Open Grid  Europe 
natural gas network has drawn interest from four groups of
energy and financial bidders and may be concluded in May, said
two of the people, who declined to be identified as the plans
are private. EON is also working with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  on the sale
of its Energy From Waste unit which generates power by burning
refuse, and it may attract strategic bidders, the people said.  Over the last decade, EON accumulated  debt  snapping up
 power plants  and customers from  Spain  to Siberia as energy
markets began to open to competition. Then Germany’s decision
last year to exit nuclear power reduced earnings for the
country’s largest four utilities, prompting EON to cut jobs. The
company is now turning to markets such as  Brazil  where energy
demand is projected to grow faster than in Europe.  GDF Suez SA (GSZ) , Belgium’s Fluxys, Dutch grid operator
Nederlandse Gasunie NV and  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG)  are leading
competing sets of bidders for the German gas network, said two
of the people. The business may fetch more than its so-called
regulatory asset base, a common gauge of a grid’s value, of
about 3 billion euros ($4 billion), one of the people said.  Previous Deals  Each of the four groups own pipelines in Germany or its
neighbors. Funds managed by Macquarie Infrastructure and Real
Assets completed the purchase of  RWE AG (RWE) ’s German gas grid unit
about a year ago. Gasunie agreed to buy a German gas transport
network in 2007.  Fluxys G SA, the majority owner of the Belgian grid
operator, completed the purchase of Eni SpA’s minority stakes in
German and Swiss pipelines in November. GDF Suez of  France 
operates Europe’s largest gas network.  Open Grid Europe operates about 12,000 kilometers (7,450
miles) of gas transmission pipes in Germany, according to its
 website .  Rules guaranteeing inflation-linked rates for energy
transmission have lured pension plans, insurers and
infrastructure investment funds to seek grid assets in the
region. The German insurer Allianz SE agreed to acquire stakes
in the Norwegian Gassled pipeline network last year.  European regulators have sought to split energy generators
from their transmission assets in a bid to increase competition
in the gas and power markets.  Bidding Consortiums  “ Fluxys (FLUX)  is interested and is in a bidding consortium” for
Open Grid Europe, Berenice Crabs, a spokeswoman for the Belgian
company, said by phone from Brussels yesterday.  Spokesmen for EON, Macquarie and Gasunie declined to
comment on the possible asset sales.  Gerard Mestrallet , GDF’s chief executive officer, told
reporters in Berlin last month that GDF Suez has set up a group
to look into buying EON’s pipelines. GDF Suez spokesman Paul-
Alexis Bouquet cited Mestrallet’s comments, and declined to
comment further.  EON Energy From Waste’s sales rose to 544 million euros
last year from 539 million euros a year earlier as the company
received more refuse for incineration, according to its website.
The majority of the division’s facilities are located in
Germany, the  website  shows. The company is scheduled to report
2011 earnings March 14.  The waste division may be worth between 800 million euros
and 1.5 billion euros, two of the people said. EON will probably
receive information from interested parties next month, one
said.  French utility  Veolia Environnement SA (VIE)  and environmental
services company Remondis AG are among the parties that may seek
to buy the business, two people with knowledge of the matter
said. Asian buyers may also be interested, one said.  A Veolia spokeswoman didn’t immediately return a call and
e-mail seeking comment. Remondis spokesman Michael Schneider
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  