-- Equity Residential Lifts Bid for Banks’ Stake in Archstone to $1.5 Billion
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-02-21T17:24:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/equity-residential-lifts-bid-for-banks-stake-in-archstone-to-1-5-billion.html
Sam Zell ’s Equity Residential raised
its bid for a stake in Archstone held by  Bank of America Corp. 
and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to almost $1.5 billion after  Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  said it wanted to take control of the real-estate
company.  The banks extended Zell’s deadline for exercising his
option to buy their remaining 26.5 percent of Archstone until
April 19, Chicago-based Equity Residential said in a statement
today. Lehman, which has agreed to pay $1.3 billion for the
banks’ other 26.5 percent of the apartment company, tried
unsuccessfully to block the Zell deal, saying it would be forced
to pay more than the $2.6 billion it planned for the banks’ 53
percent stake in Archstone.  Equity Residential (EQR)  will get an $80 million breakup fee if
Lehman matches Zell’s price for the Archstone stake, Equity
Residential said. Zell previously said he valued the stake at
$1.3 billion or more.  Ruling that Zell was entitled to the option, U.S.
Bankruptcy Judge James Peck said in a court hearing last month
that he assumed the Zell company would bid about $1.4 billion
for half of the banks’ stake, because at that price Equity
Residential would get a breakup fee in compensation for its work
preparing a bid for Archstone.  Kimberly Macleod , a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to comment
on the Zell bid.  ‘Disguised Sale’  The banks’ deal with Zell is really “a disguised sale of
100 percent of the banks’ stake to Lehman,” designed to get a
good price, Peck said. “I know it.”  Still, he said, the Zell company is entitled to exercise
its option, denying Lehman’s request for a preliminary
injunction.  Lehman, which has said it wants to sell Archstone for
$6 billion to help pay creditors, is first seeking to gain
control by buying the banks’ stakes. Zell’s company is
Archstone’s biggest rival in the apartment business, referred to
by Peck as “the elephant in the room.”  Archstone is Lehman’s biggest real estate asset. Lehman
owned 47 percent before agreeing to buy another 26.5 percent.  Liquidation Plan  Lehman is embarking on a $65 billion liquidation plan after
three years in  bankruptcy court , which would pay the average
creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar in the next few years.  Lehman sued the banks on Dec. 15 for breach of contract,
saying they colluded to sell a stake to Zell’s company,
Archstone’s “largest competitor.” Equity Residential, with a
minority stake, could use its leverage to gain all of Archstone
so Lehman would have to defend itself by buying the stake Zell
bid for, Lehman’s lawyer, Paul DeFilippo, told the judge last
month.  Archstone, which Lehman acquired in a $22 billion leveraged
buyout with Tishman Speyer Properties LP, has ownership
interests in hundreds of apartment developments from  Washington 
and  New York  to  San Francisco . Lehman and the banks made loans,
which they later converted to equity after Archstone faltered in
the 2008 credit crisis.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 