-- EU to Move to Suspend Funds to Hungary, EU Official Says
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-02-21T15:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/eu-to-move-to-suspend-funds-to-hungary-eu-official-says-1-.html
The European Commission will adopt a
proposal tomorrow to suspend infrastructure-development
subsidies to  Hungary  after the country failed to curb its
deficit in a sustainable way, a European official said.  The commission, the European Union’s Brussels-based
regulator, will propose halting the so-called cohesion funding
to Hungary for one year starting on Jan. 1, 2013, the official
said on condition of anonymity because the discussions are
private. The decision is linked to the nation’s fiscal policy
and not to recent EU infringement proceedings against the
government in three areas including central-bank independence,
the official said.  The move, which affects funds used to finance investment
and development projects, raises pressure on Hungarian Premier
 Viktor Orban , who is trying to revive talks with the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund  on a loan. Hungary
stands to lose as much as 1.7 billion euros ($2.3 billion) in
2013, or about 1.5 percent of gross domestic product, said Peter Attard Montalto, an economist at Nomural Holdings Plc in  London .  “This will pose a significant drain on the budget as well
as providing a hole in the balance of payments,” Montalto said
today in an e-mail. “It may also slow the pace of investment in
infrastructure by government.”  The forint erased gains today and was barely changed at
287.69 per euro at 3:28 p.m. in Budapest. The currency has risen
9.5 percent against the euro this year, making it the best-
performing in the world after losing 16 percent in the second
half of last year, the most in the world.  Economic Growth  EU finance ministers are due to discuss the proposal in
March. Losing cohesion funding may threaten investments aimed at
fostering economic growth. Hungary’s forecast for gross domestic
product this year ranges between stagnation and 0.5 percent
growth,  Mihaly Varga , Orban’s chief of staff, said on Feb. 19.  The government has argued that its planned multi-year
spending cuts will yield the necessary savings to wean the
budget off its reliance on one-off revenue for meeting deficit
goals.  Since coming to power in 2010, Orban has effectively
nationalized $14 billion of private pension funds and levied
extraordinary taxes on energy, financial, retail and
telecommunication companies to plug budget holes from tax cuts
that failed to boost economic growth.  Special Taxes  The Cabinet plans to end special taxes on the energy,
retail and telecommunications industries and halve the bank levy
starting next year. The government targets savings of 550
billion forint ($2.5 billion) this year and 900 billion forint
in 2013 from budget-consolidation steps, including welfare cuts,
 Economy Ministry  State Secretary Zoltan Csefalvay said Feb. 14.  Hungary’s budget sustainability underwent a “severe
deterioration” last year, which was masked by one-time
measures, the European Commission said on Jan. 11. Hungary has
failed to take “effective action” to rein in the deficit in a
“sustainable nature,” it said.  The shortfall without one-time measures reached 252 percent
of the government’s initial target for 2011, the Economy
Ministry said on Jan. 9. For 2012, Hungary may reduce the  budget
deficit  below 3 percent of GDP “on the back of a close to 0.9
percent of GDP one-off revenue” from extraordinary industry
levies, the commission said. For 2013, the commission forecast a
shortfall of 3.25 percent of GDP in Hungary.  Hungary can’t start talks on an international loan with the
IMF and the EU until the government meets preconditions,
including addressing concerns on monetary policy, the judiciary
and the data-protection agency. The EU has no deadline or
timeline to assess Hungary’s Feb. 17 response on the
infringement procedures, a commission spokesman told reporters
today in Brussels.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  