-- Euro-Area Finance Ministers’ Statement on Greek Bailout: Text
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-21T07:44:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/euro-area-finance-ministers-statement-on-greek-bailout-text.html
Following is a statement released
today by the group of euro-area finance ministers on the
agreement on a second bailout for  Greece .  Eurogroup statement  The Eurogroup welcomes the agreement reached with the Greek
government on a policy package that constitutes the basis for
the successor program. We also welcome the approval of the
policy package by the Greek parliament, the identification of
additional structural expenditure reductions of 325 million
euros to close the fiscal gap in 2012 and the provision of
assurances by the leaders of the two coalition parties regarding
the implementation of the program beyond the forthcoming general
elections.  This new program provides a comprehensive blueprint for
putting the public finances and the economy of Greece back on a
sustainable footing and hence for safeguarding financial
stability in Greece and in the euro area as a whole.  The Eurogroup is fully aware of the significant efforts
already made by the Greek citizens but also underlines that
further major efforts by the Greek society are needed to return
the economy to a sustainable growth path.  Ensuring debt sustainability and restoring competiveness
are the main goals of the new program. Its success hinges
critically on its thorough implementation by Greece. This
implies that Greece must achieve the ambitious but realistic
fiscal consolidation targets so as to return to a primary
surplus as from 2013, carry out fully the privatization plans
and implement the bold structural reform agenda, in both the
labor market and product and service markets, in order to
promote competitiveness, employment and sustainable growth.  To this end, we deem essential a further strengthening of
Greece’s institutional capacity. We therefore invite the
Commission to significantly strengthen its  Task Force  for
Greece, in particular through an enhanced and permanent presence
on the ground in Greece, in order to bolster its capacity to
provide and coordinate technical assistance. Euro area Member
States stand ready to provide experts to be integrated into the
Task Force. The Eurogroup also welcomes the stronger on site-
monitoring capacity by the Commission to work in close and
continuous cooperation with the Greek government in order to
assist the Troika in assessing the conformity of measures that
will be taken by the Greek government, thereby ensuring the
timely and full implementation of the program. The Eurogroup
also welcomes Greece’s intention to put in place a mechanism
that allows better tracing and monitoring of the official
borrowing and internally-generated funds destined to service
Greece’s debt by, under monitoring of the troika, paying an
amount corresponding to the coming quarter’s debt service
directly to a segregated account of Greece’s paying agent.
Finally, the Eurogroup in this context welcomes the intention of
the Greek authorities to introduce over the next two months in
the Greek legal framework a provision ensuring that priority is
granted to debt servicing payments. This provision will be
introduced in the Greek constitution as soon as possible.  The Eurogroup acknowledges the common understanding that
has been reached between the Greek authorities and the private
sector on the general terms of the PSI exchange offer, covering
all private sector bondholders. This common understanding
provides for a nominal haircut amounting to 53.5 percent. The
Eurogroup considers that this agreement constitutes an
appropriate basis for launching the invitation for the exchange
to holders of Greek  government bonds  (PSI). A successful PSI
operation is a necessary condition for a successor program. The
Eurogroup looks forward to a high participation of private
creditors in the debt exchange, which should deliver a
significant positive contribution to Greece’s debt
sustainability.  The Eurogroup considers that the necessary elements are now
in place for Member States to carry out the relevant national
procedures to allow for the provision by EFSF of (i) a buy back
scheme for Greek marketable debt instruments for Eurosystem
monetary policy operations, (ii) the euro area’s contribution to
the PSI exercise, (iii) the repayment of accrued interest on
Greek government bonds, and (iv) the residual (post PSI)
financing for the second Greek adjustment program, including the
necessary financing for recapitalization of Greek banks in case
of financial stability concerns.  The Eurogroup takes note that the Eurosystem (ECB and NCBs)
holdings of Greek government bonds have been held for public
policy purposes. The Eurogroup takes note that the income
generated by the Eurosystem holdings of Greek Government bonds
will contribute to the profit of the ECB and of the NCBs. The
ECB’s profit will be disbursed to the NCBs, in line with the
ECB’s statutory profit distribution rules. The NCBs’ profits
will be disbursed to euro area  Member States  in line with the
NCBs’ statutory profit distribution rules.   • The Eurogroup has agreed that certain government revenues
that emanate from the SMP profits disbursed by NCBs may be
allocated by Member States to further improving the
sustainability of Greece’s public debt. All Member States have
agreed to an additional retroactive lowering of the interest
rates of the Greek Loan Facility so that the margin amounts to
150 basis points. There will be no additional compensation for
higher funding costs. This will bring down the debt-to-GDP ratio
in 2020 by 2.8pp and lower financing needs by around 1.4 bn euro
over the program period. National procedures for the
ratification of this amendment to the Greek Loan Facility
Agreement need to be urgently initiated so that it can enter
into force as soon as possible.   • Furthermore, governments of Member States where central banks
currently hold Greek government bonds in their investment
portfolio commit to pass on to Greece an amount equal to any
future income accruing to their national central bank stemming
from this portfolio until 2020. These income flows would be
expected to help reducing the Greek debt ratio by 1.8pp by 2020
and are estimated to lower the financing needs over the program
period by approximately 1.8 billion euros.  The respective contributions from the private and the
official sector should ensure that Greece’s public debt ratio is
brought on a downward path reaching 120.5 percent of GDP by
2020. On this basis, and provided policy conditionality under
the program is met on an ongoing basis, the Eurogroup confirms
that euro area Member States stand ready to provide, through the
EFSF and with the expectation that the IMF will make a
significant contribution, additional official program of up to
130 billion euros until 2014.  It is understood that the disbursements for the PSI
operation and the final decision to approve the guarantees for
the second program are subject to a successful PSI operation and
confirmation, by the Eurogroup on the basis of an assessment by
the Troika, of the legal implementation by Greece of the agreed
prior actions. The official sector will decide on the precise
amount of financial assistance to be provided in the context of
the second Greek program in early March, once the results of PSI
are known and the prior actions have been implemented.  We reiterate our commitment to provide adequate support to
Greece during the life of the program and beyond until it has
regained  market access , provided that Greece fully complies with
the requirements and objectives of the adjustment program.  To contact the editor on this story:
Jones Hayden in Brussels at 
 jhayden1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Fraher at   jfraher@bloomberg.net  