-- Euro Finance Ministers Said to Reach Agreement on Greek Bailout
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-21T04:30:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/europe-finance-ministers-said-to-reach-accord-on-second-bailout-for-greece.html
Euro-area finance ministers reached
agreement on a second bailout package for  Greece  that is vital
to staving off a default next month.  The deal includes a 53.5 percent writedown for investors in
Greek bonds, Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who led the
meeting, told reporters early this morning. Debt-swap bonds will
have a coupon of 2 percent in 2014, rising to 3 percent in 2015-
2020 and to 4.3 percent after that, he said.  Finance ministers haggled into the night in Brussels over
the terms of new loans to Greece and a possible contribution by
central banks, and leaned on investors to accept bigger write-
offs in a bond exchange. Ministers were discussing a Greek debt
target of 121 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  called the
deal “a very good agreement.” Italian Prime Minister  Mario
Monti  said private bondholders agreed to take a bigger writeoff
on their Greek debt after “intense” negotiations.  The euro surged on news of a deal, rising as high as
$1.3293 and trading up 0.1 percent at $1.3262 at 5:30 a.m. in
Brussels.  European governments need to weld together the program to
give enough time for the bond exchange -- designed ultimately to
write off about 100 billion euros of Greek debt -- to go ahead
by a mid-March deadline. The target is for the swap offer to run
from Feb. 22 to March 9, so the exchange takes place in time for
Greece to escape the full 14.5 billion-euro cost of a March 20
bond redemption, German lawmakers were told last week by
government officials.  More Control  Bondholders’ response to the swap, Greece’s ability to
prolong two years of austerity, and a series of parliamentary
approvals in northern European countries gripped by an anti-
bailout mindset loom as risks to the latest salvage operation.  Frustrated with Greece’s inability to meet two years of
targets for cutting the deficit and selling off state assets,
donor countries are also insisting on more control over how
Greece spends the money. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Greece accepts the idea of paying international
aid into a special account, which would give priority to keeping
Greece solvent before releasing money for the country’s  budget .  The Netherlands, one of four euro-area nations still ranked
as AAA borrowers, is pushing for monitors to set up a full-time
observation post in  Athens .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Brussels at  cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in Brussels at  sodonnell@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Crawford at   acrawford6@bloomberg.net  