-- Euro Central Banks Said to Swap Greek Investment-Portfolio Bonds
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-02-21T17:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/euro-area-central-banks-said-to-exchange-greek-investment-portfolio-bonds.html
Euro-area central banks will swap
the Greek bonds in their investment portfolios for similar
securities to avoid enforced losses during a debt restructuring,
a euro-area official said.  The swap will happen today and is identical to one the
 European Central Bank  carried out last week with the Greek bonds
acquired in its asset-purchase program, the official said. The
new Greek bonds will be immune to collective action clauses, or
CACs, ensuring central banks don’t incur any losses when a
private-sector debt write-down takes place, the official said on
condition of anonymity. A spokesman for the Frankfurt-based ECB
declined to comment.  Announcing a second bailout for Greece earlier today, euro-
area finance ministers said part of the deal is for governments
to contribute the equivalent of the profits their national
central banks make on Greek bonds in investment portfolios. That
will reduce Greece’s debt ratio by 1.8 percentage points by 2020
and lower its financing needs by about 1.8 billion euros ($2.4
billion), they said. Ministers didn’t say whether the bonds
would be swapped for equivalent assets that are exempt from
CACs.  The ECB will also distribute the profits derived from its
purchases of Greek bonds to national central banks, who will
give the money to their governments to bolster  Greece ’s aid
package, finance ministers said in a statement.  Draghi’s Silence  ECB President  Mario Draghi  has yet to comment publicly on
the ECB’s involvement in the wrangling over Greece. The bailout
package agreed today aims to reduce the nation’s debt to 120.5
percent of gross domestic product by 2020 from more than 160
percent last year.  Greece wanted the bonds in the national central banks’
portfolios to be included in a private-sector deal aimed at
slicing about 100 billion euros off its debt, officials said
last week. The central banks argued they would have dumped the
bonds if they were normal investors and that they shouldn’t be
forced to take losses on them.  CACs typically make all bondholders subject to losing part
of their capital in a retrospective action that does not require
the assent of all lenders.  The next step will be to prepare legislation that ensures
the ECB can continue lending to banks using Greek collateral
should rating companies deem the country to be in default while
the private-sector swap is taking place.  Europe ’s rescue fund 
may provide 35 billion euros to help Greece buy back those bonds, 
according to a draft law published by Greece on Feb. 12.  Guarantee  Euro-area governments last July agreed on a guarantee for
the ECB, which cannot accept bonds with a default rating. The
Greek  finance ministry  said today that the swap will be offered
to investors this week. It may take around two weeks to
complete.  The value of Greek bonds held by euro-area central banks
other than Greece in their investment portfolios is less than 10
billion euros, another euro-area official has said. Not all 17
national central banks in the euro area have Greek bonds in
their portfolios.  Germany ’s Bundesbank doesn’t, another official
said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  