-- European Carbon Permit Price Rally ‘Won’t Last,’ UBS Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-02-21T09:52:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/european-carbon-permit-price-rally-won-t-last-ubs-says.html
The current rally in European Union
carbon permits will come to an end in April, said  UBS AG. (UBSN)   The “carbon crash” will continue because the market is
oversupplied by 2 billion metric tons and companies may sell
allowances once they realize how few they need, Per Lekander, an
analyst at the bank in Paris, said today by e-mail. “Enjoy the
carbon rally while it lasts - it won’t,” he said yesterday in a
research note.  EU allowances advanced 17 percent last week on speculation
that policy makers will act to curb excess supply after
political parties in the European Parliament committee on
industry agreed to call on the bloc’s regulator to propose
withholding some permits.  “Many observers assume that the EU Parliament is about to
set aside carbon allowances to prop up prices,” Lekander said.
“We believe this speculation is flawed, at least in the near
term.”  Carbon prices may remain strong ahead of the committee vote
on the measure, which is scheduled for Feb. 28, according to
Lekander. “We expect a supportive vote given the agreement and
we could expect that this could create some strength,” he wrote
in the note. “Often carbon also shows strength into the yearly
settlement of the system which happens on 31 March. We thus
expect the carbon crash to accelerate from 1 April.”  UBS,  Switzerland ’s largest bank, continues to see 3 euros a
metric ton as “reasonable price floor” for EU allowances,
according to the note.  EU carbon allowances rose 2.2 percent today to 8.96 euros a
ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in  London  as of 9:24
a.m., trimming yesterday’s 5.4 percent decline.  Any changes to the EU emissions trading system could take
“years, not months” and without them the program will be
oversupplied each year until 2020, Lekander said. His estimate
includes the use of United Nations carbon offsets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  