-- European Stocks Decline After Greek Bailout Agreement
-- B y   T o m   S t o u k a s
-- 2012-02-21T17:02:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/european-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-after-greek-bailout-deal.html
European stocks  fell from a six-
month high amid speculation a Greek bailout deal won’t be
sufficient to solve the nation’s debt crisis.  CSM NV, the world’s biggest maker of bakery ingredients,
tumbled 9.9 percent after reporting an unexpected loss.  Segro (SGRO) 
Plc dropped 2.1 percent after writing down the value of
peripheral assets.  National Bank of Greece SA (ETE) , the country’s
largest lender, plunged 9.5 percent.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 0.5 percent to 266.78 at
the close of trading. The gauge has still rallied 24 percent
since Sept. 22 amid speculation that the European sovereign-debt
crisis will be contained and as U.S. economic data exceeded
forecasts. The measure rose for a fourth day yesterday, climbing
to the highest level since July 26.  “We saw strong gains last week as the bailout was
anticipated,” said Louis de Fels, a Paris-based  money manager 
at Raymond James Asset Management International, which oversees
$35 billion worldwide. “Now we will need more good economic
news to push stocks higher.”  National benchmark indexes dropped in all of the western
European markets, led by Greece’s ASE, which sank 3.5 percent.
France’s CAC 40 fell 0.2 percent and Germany’s  DAX (DAX)  slid 0.6
percent. The U.K.’s FTSE 100 Index declined 0.3 percent.  Debt Relief  European finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) bailout package for Greece early today by tapping
into European Central Bank profits and convincing investors to
provide more debt relief to the Mediterranean country. The deal
includes a 53.5 percent writedown for investors in the nation’s
debt, according to Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who chaired
the talks. Finance ministers haggled into the night in Brussels
over the terms of new loans and a possible contribution by
central banks.  The odds that Greece will remain encumbered by debt were
illustrated by an analysis by European and  International
Monetary Fund  officials that highlighted what could go wrong
with a country unable to grow out of its fiscal woes by
devaluing its currency. In a worst-case scenario  Greece ’s debt
might balloon to 160 percent of gross domestic product in 2020,
it concluded.  Unless 90 percent of investors sign up to the bond swap,
Greece may need to use force to secure the debt relief, entering
legal difficulties. Finland and Germany are among the nations
whose lawmakers must back the new loans and the International
Monetary Fund must also decide how much it is willing to
contribute to the package.  Further Hurdles  “Further hurdles remain,” Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at
London Capital Group, wrote in e-mailed comments. “Concerns
still linger over whether the incoming government in  Athens 
would have any incentive or wish to enforce the austerity
measures after they have received the bailout package.”  CSM (CSM)  sank 9.9 percent to 13.12 euros, the largest drop in
more than four months. The company posted a full-year net loss
of 174 million euros, while analysts in a Bloomberg survey had
predicted a profit.  Segro, the U.K.’s largest publicly traded owner of
industrial properties, declined 2.1 percent to 231.7 pence. Net
asset value adjusted for share options slid 9.8 percent to 340
pence a share in the second half of 2011, the Slough, England-
based company said. The average analyst estimate was 354 pence,
according to a report from JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Banks Retreat  National Bank of Greece  led declines in financial shares,
falling 9.5 percent to 2.68 euros, after three days of gains.
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA dropped 2.4 percent to 1.53 euros in Milan.
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , Germany’s largest lender, fell 2.1 percent to
33.85 euros. Julius Baer Group Ltd. declined 2.5 percent to
36.66 Swiss francs.  TNT Express NV fell 2.9 percent to 9.89 euros after the
express-delivery service in takeover talks with United Parcel
Service Inc. reported a fourth-quarter loss as reorganization
costs and losses in  emerging markets  mounted. Post NL, which
owns almost 30 percent of TNT according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, dropped 4.3 percent to 4.75 euros.  Wienerberger AG (WIE)  fell 1.7 percent to 9.33 euros in Vienna
after the world’s biggest brickmaker’s 2011 net income missed
analyst estimates.  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  dropped 3.6 percent to 1,543 pence, the
largest decline in a month, after announcing results for an
exploration well in Sierra Leone.  “While the pay encountered liquids, further appraisal is
required to assess the commerciality,”  Goodbody Stockbrokers 
said.  Colruyt Falls  Colruyt SA (COLR) , Belgium’s biggest discount food retailer,
slipped 2.1 percent to 29.17 euros after it was cut to
“conviction sell” from “neutral” at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  Petropavlovsk Plc (POG) , a miner of gold in Russia, rose 6
percent to 738.5 pence after Nomura Holdings Inc. upgraded the
stock to “neutral” from “reduce.”  Croda International Plc (CRDA)  gained 4.5 percent to 2,123 pence
after reporting a 26 percent jump in pretax profit last year to
242.2 million pounds ($384 million), exceeding the average 239
million pounds estimated by analysts.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS) , Italy’s third-biggest
bank, surged 8.8 percent to 39 euro cents ahead of the sale of a
stake by its biggest investor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Stoukas in Athens at 
 astoukas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  