-- Teva Premium Swells on $250 Million Settlement: Israel Overnight
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y   a n d   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-02-22T14:51:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/teva-premium-balloons-on-250-million-drug-settlement-israel-overnight.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
climbed in New York, pushing the premium over Israeli stock to a
six-week high, on speculation the drugmaker is settling lawsuits
alleging a treatment led patients to develop hepatitis C.  U.S.-traded shares of the world’s largest maker of generic
drugs jumped 1.3 percent to a two-week high of $45.24 in New
York yesterday, widening the  advantage  over stock traded in  Tel
Aviv  to 80 cents, the most since Jan. 9. It was the biggest
premium among dually traded shares on the  Bloomberg Israel-US 25
Index (ISRA25BN) , which gained 0.9 percent to 92.79. The shares in Tel Aviv
climbed 0.8 percent to 167.3 shekels, or $44.49 today.  Teva agreed last week to pay more than $250 million to
resolve around 80 claims by people alleging that the anesthetic
Propofol was intentionally sold in vials large enough to be
reused by doctors, leading colonoscopy patients to develop
hepatitis C, two people familiar with the case said. Shares of
the drugmaker slid 23 percent in 2011, the biggest drop in five
years, on concern the dominance of multiple sclerosis treatment
Copaxone in Teva’s drug portfolio will impede revenue growth.  “There are so many clouds floating about Teva that seeing
any one of them go away brings some sunshine in,” Scott Tapley,
who helps oversee $2.5 billion at 1st Source Investment Advisors
Inc. and holds Teva shares, said in a phone interview yesterday
from  South Bend ,  Indiana . “The Copaxone, lawsuits, competition.
It’s nice to see some progress.”  Denise Bradley, a U.S.-based spokeswoman for Petach Tikva,
Israel-based Teva, confirmed that the company had settled the
Nevada Propofol cases, without specifying how much it will pay.  ‘Behind Us’  The deal also resolves a May 2010 case over Teva’s sales of
the anesthetic that spawned a jury award of more than $500
million against the company, according to the people, who spoke
on the condition of anonymity because they’re not authorized to
speak publicly about the agreements.  “Teva is pleased to have put the vast majority of these
matters behind us,” Bradley said in an e-mail. Fifteen Propofol
cases remain active on court dockets in  Las Vegas , she said.  Henry Chanin, a private-school principal from Las Vegas,
alleged he developed hepatitis C after getting tainted Propofol
during a colonoscopy.  “The parties notify the court that they have agreed to a
settlement in this matter,” Chanin’s lawyers told the Nevada
Supreme Court in a Feb. 17 filing. Teva had asked the state’s
highest court to overturn Chanin’s verdict.  Teva has  settled  about 120 Propofol lawsuits and reserved
$270 million for the litigation, the drugmaker told the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission in a Feb. 17  filing . Teva
will set aside an additional $15 million in the first quarter
for the cases, Bradley said in an interview.  Jumbo-Sized Vials  The drug is an intravenous agent used for sedation or
anesthesia, according to Teva’s  website . The patients’ lawyers
allege Teva intentionally sold Propofol in jumbo-sized vials to
encourage doctors to reuse them, even with the risk of spreading
blood-borne illnesses such as hepatitis, an incurable liver
disease.  Propofol is the medication that was at issue in the
involuntary manslaughter trial in  Los Angeles  of Conrad Murray,
who was pop star  Michael Jackson ’s doctor. Murray was convicted
in November and sentenced to four years in jail for giving the
singer injections of Propofol and other sedatives that led to
his 2009 death.  Lawyers for Las Vegas colonoscopy patients argued during a
series of trials that Teva officials stopped selling Propofol in
single-use-sized vials because it was more profitable to sell it
in larger containers that encouraged reuse.  Grand Jury  Probes by Nevada health officials and regulators from the
federal  Centers for Disease Control  and Prevention blamed the
2008 hepatitis C outbreak on the reuse of Propofol vials.  In 2010, a state grand jury indicted  Dr. Dipak Desai , who
ran the Endoscopy Center of Southern Nevada at the time of the
outbreak. Many of the hepatitis-related cases were linked to
that colonoscopy clinic. Desai also faces federal charges over
the outbreak.  Teva, which no longer makes Propofol, said last week that
fourth-quarter  profit  rose 23 percent as last year’s acquisition
of biopharmaceutical provider Cephalon Inc. shifted the company
further away from its original identity as a generic-drug maker.  Earnings rose to $1.4 billion, or $1.59 a share, from $1.1
billion, or $1.25, a year earlier, the company said on Feb. 15.
Teva bought Cephalon, based in the Philadelphia suburb of
Frazer,  Pennsylvania , for $6.5 billion last year in a bid to
broaden its reach into brand-name drugs.  ‘Encouraging Development’  In May, Teva will replace Chief Executive Officer  Shlomo Yanai  with Jeremy Levin, a Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. executive
known for overseeing the U.S. drugmaker’s “string of pearls”
strategy of small acquisitions and partnerships.  The CEO change is “an encouraging development,” 1st
Source Investment’s Tapley said.  The Israeli drugmaker’s 12 percent climb since the start of
the year helped spur an 11 percent  increase  for the Bloomberg
Israel-US 25 Index. The TA-25 Index, down 0.2 percent today, has
gained 3 percent this year.  Israel , whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the  Nasdaq ,
the most of any country outside the U.S. after  China . The
country is also home to more startup companies per capita than
the U.S.  Ceragon, Tower  Ceragon Networks Ltd. (CRNT) , an Israeli maker of wireless-
networking systems, rose to the highest level in more than three
months, adding 5.9 percent to $9.10. The company’s shares in Tel
Aviv declined 0.4 percent today to 34.31 shekels, or $9.12,
after climbing 5 percent yesterday.  Tel Aviv-based Ceragon received orders for its systems from
Telefonica SA,  Spain ’s biggest phone company and the second-
largest wireless carrier in  Latin America , according to a
statement released yesterday.  Tower Semiconductor Ltd. (TSEM) , a maker of customized chips, sank
the most in five months, retreating 8 percent to 81 cents. The
Tel Aviv shares gained 0.9 percent today to 3.038 shekels, or
the equivalent of 81 cents.  Migdal Haemek, Israel-based Tower raised $64 million from
Israeli institutional investors in the company’s convertible
bonds offering, according to a Feb. 20 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net ;
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  