-- Ex-Mizuho Executive Rekeda May Face SEC Lawsuit Over CDO
-- B y   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-02-22T00:37:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/ex-mizuho-credit-executive-rekeda-may-face-sec-lawsuit-over-cdo.html
U.S. regulators, as part of a broad
probe of how Wall Street firms bundled mortgage-linked financial
products as the housing crisis worsened, notified a former
 Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (MFG)  executive he may be sued for his
role in structuring the securities.  Alexander Rekeda, who previously headed structured credit
in the Americas at Mizuho, received a so-called Wells notice in
October informing him that Securities and Exchange Commission
staff intends to recommend an enforcement action against him for
allegedly making misrepresentations about a collateralized debt
obligation, according to his public broker filings.  Rekeda was part of a group of about 10 traders who left
Calyon, the investment-banking unit of  Credit Agricole SA (CRARY) , in
2006 to join Mizuho, helping the Japanese lender bolster its
U.S. mortgage-backed-securities business as the housing market
began to decline. As defaults on subprime home loans climbed,
Mizuho struggled to find buyers for its CDOs and, as their
values plummeted, had to absorb billions of dollars in losses.  The SEC, in the past three years, has targeted firms and
individuals for their roles in creating and selling products
linked to risky mortgages.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  all have been accused by the
agency of failing to tell investors about such products’ risks.  Top Grade  Mizuho came into the spotlight in September after  Standard
& Poor’s , the world’s largest provider of credit ratings, said
it could face SEC claims tied to the top grade it gave in 2007
to a $1.6 billion CDO that the Japanese bank underwrote. The
CDO, known as Delphinus, was downgraded within six months of
getting the top grade, and was rated junk by the end of 2008.  “We received a request from SEC to provide documents
related to CDO origination and sales,”  Masako Shiono , a Mizuho
spokeswoman, said in a phone interview. “We are now working on
meeting that information request.”  Shiono, who was asked when the information request was
made, declined to comment further. Steven Kobre, a lawyer
representing Rekeda, declined to comment.  The Wells notice was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Gallu in Washington at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  