-- Ex-McKinsey Consultant in Embargo Case Again Wins Appeal
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-21T23:20:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/ex-mckinsey-consultant-in-embargo-case-again-wins-appeal-1-.html
A former McKinsey & Co. consultant
whose 2010 conviction for violating a trade embargo with  Iran 
was partially set aside in October may face a retrial on three
counts after an appeals court sent the case back to a trial
judge.  Mahmoud Reza Banki, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Iran
who was sentenced to two and a half years in prison after his
New York jury trial, was freed in November after an appeals
panel overturned convictions on three of five counts. The
government appealed that ruling and the same panel today issued
an amended decision that gives prosecutors the option to seek a
retrial on the three counts.  “We’re grateful that the panel largely denied the
government’s rehearing petition and that it declined to
reinstate any of the convictions,” said Kathleen M. Sullivan, a
partner at  Quinn Emanuel Urquhart & Sullivan LLP (496224L)  who represents
Banki, said in a phone interview.  Banki had been in U.S. custody since his arrest in January
2010 and had served 22 months of his 30-month term before he was
released from prison in November.  The defendant, who has a doctorate in chemical engineering
from  Princeton University , was originally accused of running a
“value-transfer” business that essentially moved money to
residents of Iran from 2006 to 2009 in violation of the U.S.
embargo. Banki received about $4.7 million as part of the
transfer process and used the money to buy a $2.4 million
condominium, invest in securities and pay credit-card bills, the
government charged.  Reported the Funds  Defense lawyers claimed Banki didn’t violate the law
because he got the money from his family and reported the funds
to the U.S. government.  In October, a three-judge panel of the  U.S. Court of
Appeals  in New York reversed three counts and said the
government could retry Banki on two of them. The appeals court
also vacated a charge that he violated the trade restriction and
upheld Banki’s convictions on two counts of lying in response to
a subpoena from the U.S. Treasury Department about the matter.  Prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara then requested a rehearing before the appeals court.  In today’s decision, the appeals panel reversed three
counts and sent them back for possible retrial to U.S. District
Judge John Keenan in Manhattan, who presided over the 2010
trial. The three charges include conspiring to violate the Iran
trade embargo, violating the regulation and operating an
unlicensed money-transmitting business.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office,
declined to comment on today’s ruling or whether the U.S. would
seek to retry Banki.  “Mr. Banki remains confident that he would be acquitted by
a jury under the proper instructions should the government chose
to retry these counts despite the fact that he has served nearly
all of his original sentence,” Sullivan said.  The case is U.S. v. Banki, 1:10-cr-00008, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 