-- Expert Networker John Kinnucan Indicted for Securities Fraud
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-22T02:02:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/expert-networker-john-kinnucan-indicted-on-four-criminal-counts.html
John Kinnucan, founder of  Broadband
Research  LLC, was indicted for passing tips to clients at two
unidentified  hedge funds  about  SanDisk Corp (SNDK) ,  F5 Networks Inc. (FFIV) ,
 OmniVision Technologies Inc. (OVTI)  and other companies.  Kinnucan, 54, was charged in today’s indictment with two
counts of conspiracy and two counts of  securities fraud  in a
scheme to obtain nonpublic information about technology
companies for his clients that operated from 2008 to 2010.  Kinnucan “befriended” employees of public technology
companies, obtained nonpublic information from them and passed
them to his fund manager clients, the U.S. said.  He paid his sources in a variety of ways, prosecutors said,
“including paying for their meals at high-end restaurants and
shipping them expensive food, providing them with confidential
information about other technology companies and industry trends
and providing them stock trading advice and tips,” said
prosecutors in the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara.  Broadband Clients  To further the scheme, Kinnucan made numerous
representations to Broadband clients, telling them that none of
the information he obtained came from insiders at public
companies, that he didn’t pay any of his sources and that his
tips had been been reviewed and approved by a compliance
attorney in San Francisco, according to the indictment.  The unidentified insiders who conspired with Kinnucan
included employees at  Flextronics International Ltd. (FLEX) , F5
Networks and SanDisk, prosecutors said.  Donald Barnetson, a former executive at Milpitas,
California-based SanDisk, pleaded guilty in federal court in New
York on Feb. 17 and said he conspired with Kinnucan and passed
on inside information about his company.  Walter Shimoon, a former Flextronics manager, pleaded
guilty in federal court in July and claimed he passed inside
information to Kinnucan while working as a consultant for
Broadband Research. He said he was paid a total of $27,500 for
passing tips about his company, OmniVision Technologies, Apple
Inc. and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   Expert Networking  While neither man was named in the indictment of Kinnucan,
both men are cooperating with the probe of  insider trading  by
fund managers, expert networking consultants and employees of
publicly-traded technology companies by the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in New York and Bharara’s office.  Prosecutors alleged that after Kinnucan obtained
information from an F5 insider that the company was going to
beat analysts’ estimates in July 2010, he then passed tips to
several of his Broadband clients. At least two of Kinnucan’s
clients executed trades in F5 stock, either earning profits or
avoiding losses totaling more than $1.5 million, prosecutors
said.  Kinnucan announced in October 2010 that he’d refused a
request by FBI agents in  New York  to wear a wire and inform on
his fund manager clients, a move that presaged more than dozen
insider-trading arrests made during the federal initiative,
known as “Perfect Hedge.”  ‘A Target’  “Am I a target? Yeah, absolutely,” Kinnucan said in a
July 8 interview, adding that he expected to be arrested.
“There’s a saying that the government indicts who they
investigate, so I have always assumed that I was a target.”  Kinnucan denied he ever received illegal tips on companies,
and insisted the kind of information he provided hedge fund
clients was publicly available.  He has been held in U.S. custody since he was arrested Feb.
16 at his home in  Portland , Oregon. U.S. Magistrate Judge John
Acosta in Oregon directed that Kinnucan be held until a
detention hearing resumes tomorrow after prosecutors in New York
said he posed a danger to the community.  Thomas Hester, a public defender in Oregon who was
appointed to represent Kinnucan, didn’t return a voice-mail
message left at his office seeking comment about the case.  The case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-163, U.S District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  