-- Facebook, China Have Much in Common: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-02-21T23:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/facebook-china-too-much-in-common-to-like-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
Mark Zuckerberg  is pulling off a
feat bigger than becoming the world’s richest 20-something:
thriving in the cyber age even before “friending” the most
populous nation and biggest Internet market.  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s founder will soon have to “like” China,
where his website is banned. A post-initial-public-offering
Facebook will have shareholders demanding that it tap China’s
1.3 billion people, and now. Such is life when your business
model is predicated on ever-growing ranks of users updating,
sharing and poking to make advertisers and  investors  rich.  Zuckerberg will certainly face difficulties. Facebook’s
role in the Arab Spring movement caused many sleepless nights
for Communist Party bigwigs. Yet more focus should be on the
things  China (SHCOMP)  and Facebook have in common -- things that may not
jibe with Zuckerberg’s claims of making the world a better
place.  Let’s imagine a conversation between Zuckerberg and Chinese
President  Hu Jintao . Zuckerberg might greet Hu as the supreme
leader of world’s biggest marketplace; Hu might refer to the
hoodie-clad American as the supreme leader of the Internet
world.  “Contrary to what you might think, it will be great to
have Facebook in China,” Hu might say. “My billion-plus people
are used to having no privacy and relish losing even more of it
thanks to your blue and white pages. That pleases me.”  Privacy Lost  Zuckerberg (FB)  might retort: “Yes, Mr. President, you will be
happy to know that my people, just under a billion users mind
you, also look forward to sharing what’s left of their privacy
with you and me.” (Maniacal laughs all around.)  “See, Mr. Zuckerberg, we are not so different,” Hu adds.
“We both exert complete power over populations more eager to
surrender it than they realize.” Adds Zuckerberg: “And you
have to admit there’s a silver lining here -- this will really
stick it to  Google. (GOOG)  Neither of us likes them very much.”  Moments after their meeting, Hu turns to his staff and
says: “He is the perfect foil for our designs on ruling
cyberspace.” Zuckerberg tells his own: “He is the perfect
foil for our designs on ruling cyberspace.”  China’s leaders will expect Facebook to bow to their
censorship demands the way Google Inc., Yahoo! Inc., Microsoft
Corp. and Cisco Systems Inc. have. Twitter Inc. recently made an
about-face, announcing it will block posts on behalf of
governments. And Facebook will look forward to mining what it
can from China’s masses, just as it does America’s.  That’s probably not the Faustian bargain  Time magazine 
envisioned in 2010 when it dubbed Zuckerberg “Person of the
Year.” For all the hype about Facebook as a force for
democracy, its profit model is predicated on something very
different, and its side effects are still being counted.  Wall Street views Facebook as an unstoppable, limitless
force, much like economists thinking  China  can grow 10 percent
forever. Facebook views our privacy as a commodity to be bought,
sold and monetized, much as China’s government benefits from
keeping close tabs on the masses. China’s vast supply of low-
wage workers comes from the nation’s hinterlands; Zuckerberg’s
cheap-labor source is Facebook users.  Just like financiers wary of China, many Facebook users
have too much invested in the social-media juggernaut to walk
away. Those miffed by Facebook mining their lives for profit
think it’s too big of a phenomenon to blow off. It’s one thing
for socially responsible investors to steer clear of tobacco and
oil stocks; China is quite something else.  Rights Surrendered  Facebook’s governance structure resembles a dictatorship by
requiring investors to surrender rights to Zuckerberg. He now
controls 56.9 percent of voting power and has the right to
appoint his successor, a “disquieting factor,” says Gamco
Investors Inc.’s  Larry Haverty  in Rye,  New York . Yet asked in a
Feb. 8 Bloomberg interview whether a growth-stock investor like
him wants to own Facebook, he said: “absolutely.”  The bulls are so enthusiastic about China and Facebook that
they have no time for questions about whether either has peaked.
China proved it can grow for three years without U.S. and
European consumers. Doing so for two or three more years is
another story.  Critics question how many Facebook accounts are genuinely
active and how many are duplicates. I know loads of people who
have more than one account -- one for work, one for play. And
what if China goes the way of  Japan  and  South Korea (KOSPI) , where
social networkers prefer local offerings?  Facebook faces as existential a question as any  Internet
company  does: Is it a virtual part of our lives or a real one?
Even if it’s true that some people are on Facebook for eight
hours a day or more, does that ensure they will reach for their
credit cards? What if users become irate at the lack of
opportunities to opt out of  Facebook ’s efforts to monetize them?  In a pre-IPO pledge not to sell out,  Zuckerberg said  he
wants “to change how people relate to their governments.” Will
such sophomoric idealism survive the Beijing challenge?
Facebook’s own China-like ways suggests that’s highly doubtful.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in  Singapore  at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Gibney at 
 Jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 