-- FCC Should Block Verizon Purchase of Airwaves, N.J. Says
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-21T20:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/fcc-should-block-purchase-by-verizon-wireless-of-cable-airwaves-n-j-says.html
U.S. regulators shouldn’t let
 Verizon Wireless (VZW)  buy airwaves from cable companies because the
deal would eliminate possible competitors and enrich sellers
that hoarded airwaves, a New Jersey state agency said.  A $3.6 billion spectrum purchase from companies led by
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and a separate $315
million deal with Cox Communications Inc. aren’t “competitively
benign,” the New Jersey Division of Rate Counsel said in a Feb.
17 filing with the Federal Communications Commission ahead of a
deadline today for comments.  Verizon, the largest U.S. wireless provider, proposed
buying airwaves on Dec. 2 from top U.S. cable operator Comcast,
No. 2 Time Warner and Bright House Networks LLC, and announced
the deal with Cox two weeks later. Under the transactions,
Verizon and the cable companies are to market and sell each
other’s services.  Ed McFadden, a Verizon spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement that the deals are “clearly in the public interest”
and support FCC goals to re-allocate underutilized spectrum.  The  New Jersey  rate counsel, which advocates for consumers
during rate-setting proceedings for public utilities, said the
airwaves appreciated by more than $1 billion as they were held
by the cable companies, and should be returned to the FCC and
auctioned “rather than rewarding the cable companies for
stockpiling spectrum.”  The cooperation and marketing agreements “could lead to
collusion and higher prices for consumers,” the state agency
said.  Smartphone Demand  Verizon, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, wants to add
airwaves as customers increasingly adopt smartphones such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to watch video and browse the Web. Verizon
Wireless is owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and Newbury,
England-based  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   AT&T, the second-largest U.S. wireless operator, is seeking
new ways to add airwaves after it abandoned its proposed
acquisition of T-Mobile USA Inc. in December after government
opposition.  Cable companies may offer wireless services to their
customers through  Verizon Wireless  without investing in their
own network or acquiring a wireless company,  Neil Smit , a
Comcast executive vice president, said in an interview.  The FCC shouldn’t review the marketing agreements, which
aren’t contingent upon the spectrum deals, the Free State
Foundation said in comments to the agency, according to an e-
mail from the Rockville, Maryland-based group, which advocates
for free markets and limited government.  The deals don’t decrease the number of competitors, the
Free State Foundation said. The group said it wasn’t endorsing
the proposed transactions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  