-- Fed Regional Bank Directors Predicted ‘Moderate’ Growth in 2012
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-21T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/fed-regional-bank-directors-predicted-moderate-growth-in-2012.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
regional banks last month saw “moderate” growth in 2012 even
as the  U.S. economy  showed signs of strengthening.  Board members of the 12 banks “noted that recent economic
data had improved somewhat, but they were cautious about the
outlook,” according to minutes released in  Washington  today
that summarize discussions last month.  The minutes covered a Jan. 23 meeting by the  Fed’s Board of
Governors  to discuss the discount rate, which the central bank
charges on emergency loans to banks. The Fed kept the rate
unchanged at 0.75 percent.  A different panel within the Fed, the policy-setting
 Federal Open Market Committee , met Jan. 24-25 to adopt a plan to
hold  interest rates  near zero at least through late 2014 to spur
growth and reduce unemployment, extending a previous date of
mid-2013. The minutes of that meeting were released last week.
The FOMC next gathers in Washington on March 13.  Many of the directors of the Fed’s regional banks, who are
mostly bankers and business executives, “cited the downside
risks posed by ongoing uncertainty about global financial
markets and U.S. regulatory and fiscal policies,” the minutes
showed.  “Although conditions in labor markets had shown some signs
of improvement, directors remained concerned about the elevated
rate of unemployment,” the minutes said.  Changing Discount Rate  Recommendations about changing the discount rate, which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010, were the same as in
meetings in December.  Members of the Boston Fed’s board of directors in December
urged a quarter-percentage point discount-rate reduction, to 0.5
percent, “as a technical adjustment to better align the rate
with the recently reduced” cost on the dollar swaps with other
central banks.  The Fed’s November decision to lower the interest rate on
the swap lines by a half-point made it cheaper for banks abroad
to borrow dollars than U.S. institutions could do at home. Ten
regional Fed banks sought no change in the discount rate, while
the Kansas City Fed repeated its request for a quarter-point
rise.  As of Feb. 15, no banks were borrowing from the Fed’s
discount window.  Under the swap lines, the Fed lends money to counterparts,
including the  European Central Bank , which then make dollar
loans to banks in their jurisdiction. Since the Fed and other
central banks on Nov. 30 announced the interest-rate cut in a
coordinated move, Fed swap-line loans have surged to $109.1
billion from $2.4 billion.  Each of the Fed’s 12 regional banks has a nine-member board
of directors that requests discount-rate changes. The requests
are subject to final review and determination by the  Fed Board ,
which consists of the central bank’s five Washington-based
governors. They review requests about every two weeks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joshua Zumbrun  in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  