-- Fed Says U.S. Inequality Rose to Record Even With Redistribution
-- B y   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-02-21T23:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/fed-u-s-inequality-rose-to-record-in-10.html
Inequality of earnings in the U.S.
rose to a postwar high even as transfers of wealth, such as
 unemployment benefits , reached a record in 2010, according to
the Federal Reserve Bank of  Minneapolis .  “The bottom 20 percent of the  U.S. population  has never
done so poorly, relative to the median, during the whole postwar
period,” Fabrizio Perri and Joe Steinberg  wrote in a paper 
released today by the  Minneapolis Fed . “Low-earning households
have become, during the course of the Great Recession, more
vulnerable due to large losses in wealth.”  President  Barack Obama  has made inequality a rallying point
for his re-election campaign, calling for legislation to raise
taxes on millionaires after Congress extended a temporary
payroll tax-cut for workers.  “My message to Congress is, don’t stop here. Keep going,”
Obama said today of the payroll-tax cut at an event meant to
highlight U.S. workers who will benefit.  The Senate and the  House of Representatives  cleared the
$145 billion payroll package on Feb. 17, and the White House
said Obama plans to sign it into law this week.  Money earned by the bottom 20 percent of U.S. households
fell by about 30 percent compared with the median during the
recession as workers lost their jobs or decided to leave the
labor market, according the Minneapolis Fed study.  After Paying Taxes  Households that were in the bottom 20 percent of earnings
in both 2006 and 2008 experienced a $159 decrease in disposable
income, or money available after paying income taxes, said the
Minneapolis Fed’s Perri, a consultant, and Steinberg, a research
analyst. Those that moved into the bottom quintile from a
higher-earning category had $12,236 less to spend in 2008 than
in 2006, the study found.  “Although government redistribution policies -- taxes,
 unemployment  insurance and others -- have provided an important
cushion against the effect of earnings declines on disposable
income and consumption, they have not fully shielded households’
disposable income from these earnings fluctuations,” Perri and
Steinberg said.  “This further suggests that the Great Recession could have
indeed had major redistributive effects at the bottom of the
distribution,” they said.  The payroll tax measure, in addition to extending a two-
percentage-point tax reduction for workers, will continue
expanded unemployment benefits and avert a cut in doctors’
Medicare reimbursements through the end of this year. The
provisions would have expired at the end of the month if
Congress hadn’t acted.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  