-- Ferragamo Agrees to Pay Record Rent for Its Store on London’s Bond Street
-- B y   S i m o n   P a c k a r d
-- 2012-02-21T12:45:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/ferragamo-to-pay-record-rent-for-store-on-london-s-bond-street.html
Salvatore Ferragamo Italia SpA (SFER) , the
Italian luxury shoemaker that sold shares in an initial public
offering in June, agreed to pay a record rent as the company
renewed its lease on the U.K.’s most expensive shopping strip.  Ferragamo will to pay 1,000 pounds ($1,582) a square foot
in Zone A rent for the store at 24 Old  Bond Street  in central
London,  Savills Plc (SVS) , the broker for the property, said in a
statement today. Zone A rent refers to the price a tenant pays
for the most valuable part of the store, rather than the
property as a whole, and is used to compare different buildings.  New Bond Street and Old Bond Street, known collectively as
Bond Street, command the highest retail rents in London. The
Ferragamo deal exceeds the 965 pounds Zone A rent that jeweler
Piaget, a unit of Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, agreed to pay in
December 2009 for 169 Old Bond Street.  “Due to its enduring appeal to luxury brands, we predict
Bond Street will continue to see rents advancing strongly,”
Paul Endicott, Savills’s director of retail leases, said in a
statement. The company advised landlord NFU Mutual in leasing
the 7,500 square-foot (700 square-meter) unit.  Investors are also bidding up values of stores on the
street because of the long leases and regular, secure income
generated by these properties.  Tribeca Holdings Ltd., a company managed by Irish investor
Aidan Brooks, bought Cartier’s store on Bond Street for 18.7
million pounds in July. Annual rent equals 2.74 percent of the
purchase price. Cartier’s Zone A rent is about 535 pounds a
square foot and will probably rise when the company is due to
renegotiate its rent in two years, according to Tribeca.  Ferragamo will pay 1.6 million pounds in annual rent for
the Bond Street store, which it has occupied since 1967. Under
the new lease, the Florence-based luxury retailer will enlarge
its store to incorporate the first floor in addition to its
basement and ground floor, Savills said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Packard in  London  at 
 packard@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 