-- Finnish Parliament Set to Pass Greek Bailout, Lawmaker Says
-- B y   K a t i   P o h j a n p a l o
-- 2012-02-21T13:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/finnish-parliament-set-to-pass-greek-bailout-lawmaker-says-1-.html
Finland ’s parliament will probably
approve the second Greek bailout this week, said Miapetra Kumpula-Natri, chairwoman of the legislature’s Grand Committee.  “The main elements are in place,” Kumpula-Natri said
today in phone interview, citing the 130 billion-euro ($173
billion) size of the rescue and a collateral agreement for the
loan. The government plans to introduce the measure to
parliament on Feb. 24, Anita Sihvola, a spokeswoman at the
Finance Ministry, said by e-mail.  Greece won a second bailout today after  Europe ’s
governments wrung concessions from private investors and tapped
into European Central Bank profits to prevent a default. The
final hurdle for Finnish approval was cleared yesterday as it
signed an accord with  Greece  on collateral, which the Nordic
country had pushed for as a prerequisite to help its debt-
burdened euro colleague. The government’s majority in parliament
will help push through the agreement, Kumpula-Natri said.  Prime Minister  Jyrki Katainen ’s cabinet is backed by a
majority of 124 lawmakers, who must vote to uphold the coalition
or face penalties. Lawmakers who fail to comply may be ejected
from their party’s parliamentary group, the main forum for their
work in the legislature. Parliament has 200 seats, including the
speaker who doesn’t vote.  No Surprises  “This has been the method used for previous votes,”
Kumpula-Natri said. “The government has indicated this will be
the case and all six parties that are in government are in
agreement. I don’t expect any surprises.”  Finland was the only country to take the collateral deal
reached in October after more than four months of talks. Under
the accord, Greek bonds will be transferred from Greek banks to
a trustee, which will sell them and invest the proceeds in AAA
rated bonds with maturities of 15 to 30 years. In exchange,
Finland pays upfront its share of the capital of the permanent
rescue fund, the European Stability Mechanism.  The amount of collateral is determined based on the final
size of the bailout, the  Finance Ministry  said on its website.  The spread on Finland’s 10-year bonds and similar-maturity
German bunds was little changed, widening 0.3 basis points to
45.1 basis points at 3:43 p.m. in Helsinki. One basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  While Finland requires collateral for all rescue loans paid
from the temporary rescue fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, Finance Minister Jutta Urpilainen said Dec. 21 the
country will forgo extra security for any lending from the
permanent rescue fund, the ESM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kati Pohjanpalo in Helsinki at 
 kpohjanpalo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  