-- Fletcher Falls on Weak Housing, Quake Delays: Wellington Mover
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-02-22T04:09:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/fletcher-building-declines-on-weak-housing-quake-delays-wellington-mover.html
Fletcher Building Ltd. (FBU) , New
Zealand’s biggest building products maker, declined after saying
full-year profit may fall as much as 14 percent because of weak
housing markets and delays in earthquake reconstruction.  Profit before unusual items will be between NZ$310 million
($258 million) and NZ$340 million in the year ending June 30,
from NZ$359 million a year earlier, the Auckland-based company
said in a statement in which it reported first-half earnings
before unusuals fell 4 percent to NZ$159 million. The shares
fell 2 percent.  Fletcher expects modest increases in New Zealand house-
building and no improvement in Australia’s residential property
market, which will curb demand for cement, lumber and wallboard.
Strong aftershocks in the South Island city of Christchurch,
which was struck by an earthquake a year ago today that killed
185 people, have set back reconstruction, Chief Executive
Officer Jonathan Ling said.  “Conditions in  New Zealand  are expected to remain
challenging for the balance of the 2012 financial year,” Ling
said. “Levels of activity in both the residential and
commercial construction sectors will remain subdued.”  Fletcher shares fell 13 cents to NZ$6.51 at the 5 p.m.
close in Wellington. Earlier, they fell as much as 4.5 percent,
the biggest drop in four months.  Net income dropped 13 percent to NZ$144 million in the six
months ended Dec. 31, the company said. Sales rose 30 percent to
NZ$4.51 billion after last year’s acquisition of Australian
company Crane Group Ltd. Excluding that deal, sales fell.  Fletcher is reviewing its Laminex unit, which produces
wallboard used in bathrooms and kitchens, and incurred NZ$21
million of one-time costs in the six months ended Dec. 31. It
expects to incur an additional NZ$40 million to NZ$50 million of
costs in the second half, it said today.  The company will also review its insulation business in
 Australia  and New Zealand “to determine what will be required
to generate satisfactory returns in the future,” said Ling.
This may also result in one-time costs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Bourke at   cbourke4@bloomberg.net  