-- Forest, Almirall Lung Drug May Be Tied to Cardiovascular Deaths, FDA Says
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-21T21:11:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/forest-almirall-s-copd-drug-tied-to-increased-deaths-fda-says.html
Forest Laboratories Inc. (FRX)  and
 Almirall SA (ALM) ’s experimental drug to treat breathing complications
tied to a common lung disease may be linked to more instances of
cardiovascular deaths at higher doses, U.S. regulators said.  The twice-daily drug known chemically as aclidinium bromide
helped patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, or
COPD, breathe easier, Food and Drug Administration staff said
today in a  report . Advisers to the agency are set to meet Feb.
23 to weigh whether safety questions about the medicine have
been adequately assessed.  COPD, tied to smoking as a cause, is an umbrella term for
conditions that make it difficult to breath, according to the
 National Institutes of Health . If approved, the drug may have
$150 million in  sales  for New York-based Forest in 2015,
according to the average of two analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  “It is striking that all the cardiovascular deaths are
reported for the higher aclidinium dose,” the FDA said in its
report on the drug. “It is difficult to dismiss the apparent
imbalance in cardiovascular death between the treatment groups,
while at the same time, impossible to conclude that the data
represent a true safety signal,” the agency said.  Frank Murdolo, a spokesman for Forest, said in an e-mail
that the number of cardiovascular deaths in the group taking the
drug “does not rise to the level of a clear safety signal.”  COPD Drugs  “The documents look relatively benign,” John Boris, an
analyst with Citigroup in  New York , said today in a note to
clients. Boris said he expects the FDA to require more safety
studies once the drug goes on the market.  Treatment for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
includes inhaled drugs to open the airways such as Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH’s Spiriva and inhaled steroids such as
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Symbicort and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s Advair.  Shares of Forest fell less than 1 percent to $32 at the
close in New York. Shares of Almirall, based in Barcelona, fell
1.6 percent to 6.11 euros.  Forest has the rights to aclidinium in the U.S. while
Almirall owns them in the rest of the world.  London-based Glaxo also is working with  Theravance Inc. (THRX) ,
based in  San Francisco , to develop once-daily treatments,
according to Theravance’s  website .  Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease caused 126,000  deaths 
in the U.S. in 2005, according to the U.S. Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention in Atlanta.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  