-- Gasoline Rises to Seven-Month High as Oil Climbs on Greece, Iran
-- B y   K s e n i a   G a l o u c h k o
-- 2012-02-21T20:51:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/gasoline-futures-rise-as-oil-climbs-to-nine-month-high-on-greece.html
Gasoline rose as oil climbed to the
highest price in nine months after euro-area finance ministers
agreed on a second bailout for  Greece .  The best-performing energy commodity this year advanced to
a seven-month high as crude gained as much as 2.7 percent.
European finance ministers approved 130 billion euros ($173
billion) in aid for Greece by tapping into European Central Bank
profits and coaxing investors into providing more debt relief to
shield the region from a default.  “It’s very much the Greek situation and the stability it
brings to the markets,”  John Kilduff , a partner at Again
Capital LLC, a New York-based hedge fund that focuses on energy,
said by phone. “Now we can focus on the continuing improving
data set that we’ve been getting in the U.S.”  March-delivery gasoline rose 5.46 cents, or 1.8 percent, to
settle at $3.0702 a gallon on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the highest price since July 29. Prices are up 14 percent so far
this year.  Greece’s debt may still balloon to 160 percent of gross
domestic product in a worst-case scenario, analysis by the
 International Monetary Fund  and European officials indicated.  Prices also gained as an Iranian military commander said
 Iran  would consider taking pre-emptive action in response to
threats, according to the state-run Fars news agency.  “We will no more wait to see enemy action against us,”
Fars quoted Mohammad Hejazi, deputy head of the General Staff of
the Iranian Armed Forces for Logistic and Industrial Research,
as saying in an interview.  Suspended Deliveries  Iran suspended oil deliveries to  France  and the United
Kingdom, increasing concern that oil supplies may tighten. Iran
won’t cede its “right” to peaceful atomic energy and has
mastered the full nuclear-fuel cycle, Foreign Ministry spokesman
 Ramin Mehmanparast  said today.  A team of officials from the  International Atomic Energy
Agency , the  United Nations ’ nuclear watchdog, arrived in Tehran
yesterday for two days of meetings that provide an opportunity
to defuse allegations of a military aspect to the country’s
nuclear program.  Iran’s suspension of exports to France and the U.K.
followed a warning by its oil minister that Tehran might preempt
a European Union ban on purchases of the nation’s crude planned
to start July 1, the oil ministry’s news website, Shana, said
yesterday, citing Alireza Nikzad Rahbar, a spokesman.  Iran Sanctions  The EU and U.S. imposed sanctions on Iran, the second-
largest oil producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, in an attempt to halt its nuclear program.  “With Iran cutting off sales to England and France,
although these are small amounts of oil, the market is concerned
that could spread to other countries in  Europe , resulting in
refiners looking for alternative sources of supply,”  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow Oil Associates LLC in Houston, said by
phone. “It puts pressure on crude  oil prices  around the world,
which translates to higher gasoline prices as the U.S. is a
substantial importer of gasoline from Europe.”  EU nations bought a combined 18 percent of Iran’s crude and
condensate exports, or 452,000 barrels a day, in the first half
of 2011, according to the most recent data on the website of the
U.S. Energy Information Administration. France purchased 2
percent of Iran’s shipments, or 49,000 barrels a day, while the
U.K. took less than 1 percent, the data showed.  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, rose 0.5
cent to $3.57 yesterday, according to AAA data. Prices are the
highest ever for this time of year.  Heating oil for March delivery climbed 5.04 cents, or 1.6
percent, to $3.2393 a gallon on the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ksenia Galouchko in New York at 
 kgalouchko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  