-- GB Auto Surges on Car Assembler’s Deal With Geely: Cairo Mover
-- B y   A h m e d   A .   N a m a t a l l a
-- 2012-02-21T13:22:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/gb-auto-surges-on-car-assembler-s-deal-with-geely-cairo-mover.html
GB Auto (AUTO)  climbed to the highest in
more than four months after the Middle East’s biggest
independent car assembler signed a contract to produce and
distribute cars for  Geely Automobile Holding Ltd. (175)   GB Auto  shares  gained 4.1 percent to 24.57 Egyptian pounds
at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, the highest since Oct. 11. The
stock has advanced 17 percent this year, compared with a 39
percent surge for the main index. The benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
declined 2.4 percent today.  The Cairo-based company will sell passenger cars for Wan
Chai, Hong Kong-based Geely in “select high-growth markets
across North Africa,” it said in an e-mailed statement today.
GB Auto has assembled variations of the Hyundai Motor Co.’s
Accent, a four-cylinder sedan, in  Egypt  since 1995. That
agreement is due to expire at the end of 2013, although the
company will continue to import and distribute Hyundai vehicles,
Ghabbour said in November.  The contract will enable GB Auto to “target a different
segment of the population” because of the cars’ relatively
lower price, Samir Murad, vice president of research at Kuwait-
based NBK Capital, said by telephone. It comes “at a good time
for the company as it allows them to build complete knock-down
models in Egypt when Hyundai may not be renewing its assembly
contract,” he said.  Complete knock-down vehicle kits allow car manufacturers to
outsource assembly to other companies to cut costs.  GB Auto will start selling two Geely models in Egypt next
quarter and then begin assembling vehicles in the third quarter,
the company said today. GB Auto had about a 32 percent share of
the Egyptian passenger car market in 2011, according to its
estimates.  “Margins will not be high for distribution in 2012, but
the prospects are good because the product has a low price
point,” Murad said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  