-- Finance Minister Schaeuble Confident Lawmakers Will Approve Greek Package
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-21T09:47:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/german-lawmakers-set-to-back-greek-package-schaeuble-says.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said he’s “very confident” that lawmakers in Berlin
will approve the second bailout package for  Greece  after euro-
area finance ministers completed negotiations in Brussels.  “The decision isn’t easy for anybody, it’s not simple,”
Schaeuble  said  today on Deutschlandfunk radio. “But it’s a
decision that has to be weighed carefully, considering the
advantages and disadvantages of the possible alternatives.”  Previous rescue measures to stem the region’s debt crisis
have passed the German parliament with the backing of Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s coalition and two of the three opposition
parties. The lower-house vote on the 130 billion-euro ($173
billion) second Greek bailout is scheduled for Feb. 27.  “Parliaments have always agreed to support packages so
far, as a rejection might have triggered a crisis,”  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt, said in
a research note today.  Carsten Schneider, the budget spokesman for  Germany ’s
Social Democrats, the biggest opposition group in parliament,
suggested that his party’s lawmakers will back the Greek aid
package. “If the Greeks request it, one shouldn’t stand in the
way of this request,” he said on Deutschlandfunk today.  Questions remain about whether Greece can reduce its debt
to a sustainable level, meaning  Europe  may need to expand its
firewall against the crisis, Schneider said in the interview.
“This raises the question whether the amount of 500 billion in
the ESM, the permanent rescue fund, is enough,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  