-- ‘Godfather’ Author Puzo’s Estate Sued by Paramount in Copyright Action
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/godfather-author-mario-puzo-s-estate-sued-by-paramount-in-copyright-action.html
Paramount Pictures Corp. (0001184D)  sued
Anthony Puzo, the son and executor of the estate of author Mario Puzo, to prevent the publication of a new sequel novel to “The
Godfather,” saying it wasn’t authorized.  Paramount, which says it bought the copyright to Puzo’s
novel in 1969, is trying “protect the integrity and reputation
of The Godfather trilogy,” according to a complaint filed Feb.
17 in federal court in  Manhattan .  Paramount claimed that, after Puzo’s death in 1999, the
company agreed to allow  Bertelsmann AG (BTG) ’s Random House unit to
publish a single Godfather sequel, “The Godfather Returns,” in
2004. The estate published another novel, “The Godfather’s
Revenge,” in 2006 without Paramount’s approval, according to
the complaint.  “Far from properly honoring the legacy of ‘The Godfather,’
the unauthorized ‘The Godfather’s Revenge’ tarnished, and in the
process, also misled consumers into believing that ‘The
Godfather’s Revenge’ was authorized by Paramount,” the movie
studio, a unit of New York-based  Viacom Inc. (VIAM) , said in the
complaint.  Paramount is seeking damages and an order barring the Puzo
estate from publishing the third sequel novel, “The Family
Corleone,” this year.  ‘Sneak Attack’  Bertram Fields, a Los Angeles lawyer who represents the
Puzo estate, said he had repeatedly notified Paramount of the
sequel, which is to be published in May. The studio didn’t
protest before suing, said Fields, who called the suit “a sneak
attack.”  “For Paramount to do this to Mario Puzo’s children after
the tens of millions of dollars he made for the studio is
outrageous,” said Fields in a telephone interview.  “Paramount
and its executives should be ashamed.”  Fields said the 1969 contract between Mario Puzo and
Paramount didn’t give up Puzo’s right to publish sequels.  Paramount claims that the Puzo estate infringed its
copyright and trademarks, which the company has used in films,
video games, software, clothing and prints. The trademark
consists of the words The Godfather and a hand holding puppet
strings. Paramount said the Puzo estate plans to use the
trademarks without authorization to promote the new sequel.  The first Godfather film was released in 1972 and won
Academy Awards for best picture, actor and adapted screenplay.
Puzo shared credit for the screenplay.  Francis Ford Coppola 
directed the three Godfather movies.  The case is Paramount Pictures Corp. v. Puzo, 12-CV-1268,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  