-- Goldman Sachs, Insider Trading, Facebook, BNY in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n   a n d   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-21T13:38:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/goldman-insider-trading-facebook-bny-jpmorgan-in-court-news.html
A former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
computer programmer was freed after his conviction for stealing
the bank’s high-speed trading code was reversed by a U.S.
appeals court.  Wearing a gray sweatsuit, white tennis shoes and a huge
grin,  Sergey Aleynikov , 42, left the Manhattan courthouse where
he had been convicted in December 2010 and entered a waiting car
with his lawyer,  Kevin Marino .  “Justice occasionally works,” Aleynikov told reporters as
he left. “This was such big news to me I haven’t had any time
to think about what would happen.”  Aleynikov, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in Russia, said
he hoped to be with his three daughters, ages 8, 6 and 3. Until
Feb. 17, he had been serving an eight-year sentence at the
federal prison in Fort Dix, New Jersey.  After hearing oral arguments from both prosecutors and
Marino on Feb. 16, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan issued
a one-page order vacating Aleynikov’s convictions for economic
espionage and the interstate transportation of stolen property.
The appeals court said it would issue an opinion explaining the
ruling later.  The appeals court also issued a mandate that would have
foreclosed any further challenge to its decision. The office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara persuaded the court to set
aside the mandate so it can argue for a rehearing of the appeal,
either before a three-judge panel or all the court’s available
judges.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office,
declined to comment on the ruling.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, who presided over the
trial, ordered Aleynikov released from prison Feb. 17.  Aleynikov was convicted by a jury of violating the Economic
Espionage Act and the Interstate Transportation of Stolen
Property Act. He was sentenced last March.  On his last day of work at New York-based Goldman Sachs in
June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of lines of
source code from the firm’s high-frequency trading system,
prosecutors said.  He circumvented Goldman Sachs’s security, sent the code to
a server in Germany, compressed and encrypted it, and took it
with him to a meeting with new employers in Chicago, the U.S.
said. Prosecutors argued Aleynikov wanted it as a “cheat
sheet” to start a trading system at his new job.  During oral arguments on Feb. 16, the three-judge appeals
panel criticized the government’s application of the espionage
act to Aleynikov’s actions, asking the prosecutor how the crime
occurred and how it affected commerce.  The judges -- Dennis Jacobs, 67, Guido Calabresi, 79, and
Rosemary Pooler, 73 -- also asked if taking Goldman Sachs’s
trading code was comparable to taking copyrighted material or
bringing an employee manual to a new job.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford CFO Allegedly Forged Boss’s Name, Refused Reforms  R. Allen Stanford was furious to learn that his finance
chief, James Davis, forged his name to a 2007 employee memo
abolishing a department Stanford created to “reel in”
expenses, a former executive testified.  “He called me at home at 11 or 12 one evening, and he was
very mad,” Linda Wingfield, Stanford’s former executive
director of special projects, told jurors Feb. 17 at Stanford’s
criminal fraud trial in federal court in Houston. “He said he
did not sign it.”  Wingfield, who held a number of executive positions at
Stanford’s companies over 10 years, testified that Davis refused
to give the boss access to a corporate computer system with
Stanford Financial Group Co.’s financial records. Testifying as
a defense witness, she said Davis also ignored or circumvented
policies Stanford instituted to clamp down on expenditures.  “He fought us from day one, a department set up by the
chairman to try to control costs,” Wingfield said of Davis.
“Mr. Davis was always refusing.”  Wingfield’s testimony may bolster Stanford’s claim that it
was Davis, not he, who ran the financial services empire and
engineered a fraud that cost investors more than $7 billion.
Davis pleaded guilty and testified as a government witness
earlier in the trial.  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of stealing more than $2
billion from certificates of deposit at his Antigua-based
Stanford International Bank Ltd. Instead of holding investor
funds in safe assets as he promised, Stanford used their money
to fund an extravagant lifestyle and risky ventures including
Caribbean airlines, real estate projects and cricket
tournaments, prosecutors say.  Stanford, 61, has been jailed as a flight risk since being
indicted in June 2009. If convicted of the most serious charges,
he faces as long as 20 years in prison.  Wingfield, who also ran some of Stanford’s side ventures,
testified Feb. 17 via a video link from federal court in
Orlando, Florida. She said she was too ill to travel.  Robert Scardino, Stanford’s lawyer, asked Wingfield who
controlled “all the financial issues, including the treasury,
accounting, internal audits and investments” at Stanford’s
companies.  “Mr. Davis -- and the insurance, too,” she said. “There
was nobody else who handled all the books.”  Wingfield told jurors she believed Stanford’s court-
appointed receiver duplicated efforts and wasted money during
the “chaotic” period after the businesses were seized by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in February 2009.  More than 40 Stanford investors crowded into the courtroom
Feb.17 to mark the third anniversary of the SEC crackdown. Angie
Shaw, leader of the Stanford Victims’ Coalition, said the
group’s motto is “3 and $0,” meaning “three years and zero
recovery” by defrauded investors.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  For more, click here.  Commerzbank Defends Bonus Cut After Bank Fell Off ‘Cliff’  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  didn’t act dishonestly in going back on a
promise to pay bankers from a guaranteed bonus pool, the German
lender’s attorney said in a London trial over payments to
Dresdner Kleinwort staff.  Commerzbank, which took over Dresdner in 2009 and cut
bonuses by 90 percent or more, is defending a lawsuit brought by
104 Dresdner bankers who want individual payouts of as much as 2
million euros ($2.7 million).  Stefan Jentzsch, Dresdner’s former chief executive officer,
had promised at a 2008 company meeting to set aside 400 million
euros for discretionary pay. Dresdner’s record loss that year
justified changing the policy and Jentzsch’s pledge wasn’t
legally binding, Commerzbank lawyer Thomas Linden said.  “It may be perfectly honorable to withdraw from a non-
binding commitment in circumstances when the business has fallen
off a cliff,” Linden told the judge in closing arguments
yesterday. “Every banker, we say, in the U.K. knows that until
you have a document which sets out the award, you don’t have an
entitlement.”  European banks face pressure from governments and
regulators over pay. Executives at  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  should have to give up bonuses
so individuals aren’t rewarded for failure, the U.K. Treasury
said, while European financial services chief Michel Barnier has
called for new curbs on excessive compensation.  The case “comes at a time when the words ‘banker’s bonus’
are perhaps not the most popular in the English language,”
Andrew Hochhauser, a lawyer representing some of the Dresdner
claimants, said in his closing arguments.  Nonetheless, the 2008 bonus pool promise had been agreed
with then-owners  Allianz SE (ALV)  in consultation with the U.K.
Financial Services Authority as a way to stop staff leaving
Dresdner, he said.  Vermont Attorney General Appeals Ruling on Yankee Nuclear Plant  The state of Vermont filed an appeal of a federal court
ruling allowing  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  to keep its Vermont Yankee nuclear
power plant open.  William Sorrell, the state’s attorney general, said a Jan.
19 ruling by U.S. District Judge Garvan Murtha “improperly
limits” the state’s role in deciding whether the nuclear power
plant stays open past March 21. The appeal was filed Feb. 17.  Murtha said in his ruling last month that Vermont lacked
the authority to deny Entergy a license to operate the reactor
after March.  Entergy sued Sorrell, Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin and
members of its Public Service Board in April 2011. Entergy
claimed that the state didn’t have the authority to overrule the
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which renewed Entergy’s
license to operate the power station until 2032.  The company has said in court papers that  Vermont Yankee ,
the state’s only nuclear power plant, supplies about 33 percent
of Vermont’s electricity. It pays about $13 million a year in
state fees and taxes. The plant is in Vernon, on the Connecticut
River in the southeastern corner of the state.  New Orleans-based Entergy is the second-largest operator of
U.S. nuclear plants.  The case is Entergy Nuclear Vermont Yankee v. Shumlin,
1:11-00099, U.S. District Court, District of Vermont
(Brattleboro).  The appeal will be heard by the Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit in New York.  New York Can Enforce Ban Against Use of Schools for Worship  New York City can enforce a ban on the use of public
schools for worship services, a U.S. appeals court said,
restricting a judge’s temporary halt on the ban to only the
group that brought the lawsuit.  “The district court’s finding that Bronx Household has
shown likelihood of success on the merits of its case does not
justify enjoining the board from enforcing its order against
non-parties,” the appellate court in Manhattan said Feb. 17.  U.S. District Judge  Loretta Preska  on Feb. 16 granted a 10-
day temporary order blocking the city’s ban. The Bronx Household
of Faith had sought the order to allow its members to continue
meeting in a New York City public school on Sundays, in
contravention of an order that went into effect Feb. 13.  Last year, the appellate court, overturning Preska’s 2007
decision in favor of the church, ruled that the city may
prohibit religious groups from using school facilities outside
of regular school hours for “religious worship services.”  The legal battle dates to 1995, when the Bronx Household of
Faith, an evangelical Christian church, sued the city. The
church argued the city was violating the First Amendment by
denying it use of a school while allowing other community groups
access to campuses for their activities.  The U.S. Supreme Court in December refused to consider the
appeals court’s ruling reversing Preska’s decision. Lawyers for
the church returned to argue before Preska that the city’s ban
violates the First Amendment’s free exercise clause, which
forbids government interference in religious activities.  Jordan Lorence, a lawyer with the Alliance Defense Fund in
 Washington  who represents the Bronx Household of Faith, said in
a phone interview the appeals court’s order didn’t deal with the
merits of the case.  “It’s somewhat disappointing but it’s not a major
ruling,” Lorence said.  The case is The Bronx Household of Faith v. Board of
Education of the City of New York, 01-cv-08598, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Ex-SanDisk Employee Pleads Guilty in Kinnucan Insider Case  Former  SanDisk Corp. (SNDK)  executive Donald Barnetson pleaded
guilty to participating in a securities fraud scheme with John
Kinnucan, an expert networking consultant who was also charged.  Barnetson, 37, pleaded guilty in federal court in Manhattan
Feb. 17 to one count of conspiracy to commit securities and wire
fraud. He faces as long as five years in prison and was ordered
released on $50,000 bond.  “I conspired with a consultant to provide confidential
information with regard to my employer at the time, SanDisk
Corp.,” Barnetson told U.S. Magistrate Judge Gabriel Gorenstein
in the hearing.  Barnetson, a former senior director of original equipment
manufacture strategy for SanDisk, passed tips to Kinnucan who
shared them with his clients, which included hedge funds and
money managers, according to Barnetson’s plea agreement with the
government.  Prosecutors claim Barnetson tipped Kinnucan in July 2010
about SanDisk’s anticipated  revenue , which wasn’t public. In
September 2010, he told Kinnucan about confidential negotiations
about a legal dispute between SanDisk and Apple Inc., according
to the complaint.  Kinnucan paid Barnetson with a $25,000 investment in a
business he was starting, as well as meals at expensive
restaurants and food deliveries, according to the Kinnucan
complaint. Kinnucan also gave Barnetson inside information about
other companies, according to prosecutors.  Kinnucan, 54, the Broadband Research LLC founder who said
he refused to secretly record a money manager in a nationwide
U.S. probe of insider trading, was charged with one count of
conspiracy to commit securities fraud, one count of conspiracy
to commit wire fraud and two counts of securities fraud in the
complaint unsealed Feb. 17 in federal court in New York.  He was arrested at his home in Portland, Oregon, Feb. 16
the Federal Bureau of Investigation said. Elizabeth Steele, an
FBI spokeswoman in Portland, said Kinnucan was in the Multnomah
County Jail.  Lee Flanagin, a spokesman for Milpitas, California-based
SanDisk, said Barnetson left the company in early 2011.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Kinnucan, 12-mj-00424, and the
civil case is SEC v. Kinnucan, 12-cv-01230, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  SEC Submits Revised Koss Settlement After Earlier Rejection  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission submitted a
revised settlement of a lawsuit against stereo headphone maker
 Koss Corp. (KOSS)  and its chief executive officer after a judge
rejected an earlier one as too vague.  The SEC sued Milwaukee-based Koss in October, claiming it
had filed “materially inaccurate” financial statements from
2005 to 2009. The agency said the failure of Michael J. Koss,
who was CEO and chief financial officer, to supervise his
accounting staff enabled another executive to embezzle $30
million.  The SEC on Feb. 16 submitted a new settlement to U.S.
District Judge Rudolph T. Randa in Milwaukee after his rejection
of a prior one in December. As in the earlier one, the new
agreement requires the CEO to forfeit $450,000 and 160,000
options and to cooperate with the SEC. Neither the company nor
the Koss will admit or deny the SEC’s claims.  “There was no substantive difference” between the two
settlements, SEC lawyer Andrea Wood said Friday in a telephone
interview.  After rejecting the earlier proposal, Randa in December
asked the SEC to explain how it calculated the amount that Koss
would pay. SEC lawyers said the sum was equal to bonuses and
incentive pay that he received for the fiscal years 2008 and
2009 and part of 2010.  Randa said on Feb. 1 that the SEC’s response “largely”
satisfied his concerns.  Alan Berkeley, a partner in Pittsburgh-based  K&L Gates LLP (1142L) 
who is representing the company and the CEO, didn’t immediately
respond to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the revised
settlement.  Sujata Sachdeva, a former Koss finance executive, pleaded
guilty in 2010 to embezzling more than $30 million. She was
sentenced to 11 years in prison.  The case is U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission v. Koss
Corp., 11-cv-00991, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Wisconsin (Milwaukee). The criminal case is U.S. v. Sachdeva,
10-cr-00006, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Wisconsin
(Milwaukee).  MOEX Agrees to Pay $90 Million to Settle U.S. Spill Claims  Mitsui & Co. (8031) ’s MOEX Offshore 2007 LLC will pay $90 million
to the U.S. and five states for violating the Clean Water Act in
the 2010 Gulf of Mexico oil spill, according to court filings.  The U.S. filed a consent order in federal court Feb. 17
outlining the settlement. The agreement requires MOEX to pay $45
million in civil penalties to the U.S. and about $25 million
total to Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas,
court papers show. MOEX will also pay $20 million for land
acquisition projects, the U.S. said.  MOEX held a 10 percent share of  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well,
which blew up in April 2010, setting off the largest offshore
oil spill in U.S. history. The company earlier paid BP about $1
billion to settle claims. The U.S. has also sued BP and Anadarko
Petroleum Corp., which held a 25 percent interest in the well,
over Clean Water Act violations.  The settlement is the first of a series of expected
agreements with the U.S. as lawsuits over the 2010 spill
approach a trial set for Feb. 27. The U.S. Justice Department
sued MOEX, BP, Anadarko and  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , which owned the rig
that exploded, in December 2010, seeking fines for each barrel
of oil discharged.  The MOEX settlement doesn’t affect claims against or
potential recoveries from other companies over the spill, the
Justice Department said Feb. 17. MOEX no longer owns a share of
the lease, the U.S. said.  The Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that followed
killed 11 workers. The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater Horizon
drilling rig and subsequent spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against London-based BP and its partners and contractors.  U.S. District Judge  Carl Barbier  in New Orleans, who’s
overseeing much of the spill litigation, has scheduled a nonjury
trial for Feb. 27 to determine liability and apportion fault for
the disaster.  MOEX said in the consent decree that it wasn’t admitting
any liability under the Clean Water Act. The settlement also
wasn’t “an admission by the MOEX entities of any liability for
civil payments or any other claim out of or relating to the
Deepwater Horizon incident,” according to the filing.  The government case is U.S. v. BP Exploration & Production
Inc., 2:10-cv-04536, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans). The lawsuit is part of In Re Oil Spill
by the Oil Rig Deepwater Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April
20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Louisiana (New Orleans).  For more, click here.  Facebook Wins Lawsuit Against Power Ventures Over Login Data  Facebook Inc. (FB) , operator of the world’s largest social-
networking site, won a 2008 lawsuit accusing Power Ventures
Inc.’s Power.com of accessing and storing users’ login data
without authorization.  The ruling Feb. 16 by U.S. District Judge James Ware paves
the way for hearings on damages for Facebook.  “The undisputed facts establish that defendants
circumvented technical barriers” to access Facebook’s site,
Ware wrote in a 19-page opinion issued without a trial.  Facebook sued Power Ventures in December 2008 in federal
court in San Jose, California, saying Power.com offered users
the ability to retrieve their Facebook messages and other
information from Facebook’s computer servers without permission.  Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, accused
Power.com of infringing its copyrights and trademarks and
violating computer fraud and unfair competition laws. It sought
a court order prohibiting further access and unspecific damages.  Power Ventures is based in the Cayman Islands, according to
court papers.  Power.com  is up for sale on the Internet.  “We are pleased that the court ruled in our favor,” Craig
Clark, lead litigation counsel for Facebook, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will continue to enforce our rights against bad
actors who attempt to circumvent Facebook’s privacy and security
protections and spam people.”  “Facebook has established a dangerous precedent for the
future of users’ rights to own and control their data,” said
Steven Vachani, chief executive officer of Power Ventures, in an
e-mailed statement. “We intend to aggressively continue this
fight.”  The case is Facebook Inc. v. Power Ventures Inc., 08-
cv-5780, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  BNY Accused of $1.5 Billion Fraud in Amended U.S. Complaint  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. , the world’s largest custody
bank, defrauded clients of more than $1.5 billion through
foreign-exchange trades, according to a new complaint by the
U.S. government.  The bank “repeatedly lied” about a service for foreign
currency transactions and defrauded clients, including pension
funds and federally insured financial institutions, of more than
$1.5 billion, the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Manhattan said in an
amended complaint. It was filed Feb. 16, according to the
office.  The government’s lawsuit is one of several brought against
the bank, including one by New York Attorney General  Eric
Schneiderman , alleging it defrauded clients through its so-
called standing instruction foreign-exchange service.  “Standing instruction was so much more profitable to BNYM
than any other foreign exchange service because it relied on a
fraudulent business model,” U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara said in
the filing.  In the first complaint filed in October, the U.S.
Attorney’s Office said the bank defrauded clients of “hundreds
of millions of dollars.” Part of the lawsuit was resolved under
an agreement approved last month.  “As we have said before regarding this lawsuit, we believe
it is without merit, and we will defend ourselves in court,”
said Kevin Heine, a Bank of New York spokesman.  The case is U.S. v.  Bank of New York Mellon Corp. (BK) , 11-6969,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Harbinger Capital, Falcone Sued Over LightSquared Investment  Hedge fund manager Phil Falcone and his Harbinger Capital
Partners were sued by a New York woman who claims she and others
were misled about the fund’s decision to put most of the money
they invested into  LightSquared Inc. (SKYT)   Lili Schad, a Wallkill, New York, resident who said she
invested $4 million with Harbinger, claims she wasn’t told that
more than 60 percent of the partnership’s money went into
LightSquared, a company attempting to build a high-speed
wireless network, according to a complaint filed Feb. 17 in
federal court in Manhattan.  Schad, who seeks to represent all the limited partners in
Harbinger Capital Partners Fund I LP, also claims she wasn’t
informed that LightSquared’s plan to build the network faced
obstacles from U.S. regulators. The suit seeks unspecified
damages.  “Had plaintiff known that defendants would concentrate the
fund’s investments in LightSquared or known of the regulatory
obstacles the company faced, she would have refrained from
investing in the fund or immediately sought to withdraw her
investment from the fund,” Schad said in the complaint.  Schad alleged that Harbinger allowed some “favored
investors,” including Goldman Sachs Group Inc., to redeem their
investments on terms unavailable to others. She said that in
2009 Harbinger let Goldman Sachs redeem a $50 million investment
in the fund.  Lew Phelps, an outside spokesman for Harbinger Capital,
didn’t immediately return a phone message seeking comment on the
suit.  The case is Schad v. Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, 12-
CV-1244, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Geithner Should Testify in JPMorgan Suit, Lehman Says  U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  should to be
ordered to give a deposition in  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) ’s
lawsuit against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which alleged the bank
siphoned $8.6 billion out of Lehman in the 2008 credit crisis,
helping to cause its collapse, the defunct firm and its
creditors said.  Lehman has a March 16 deadline for completing its fact
finding in the case, after interviewing more than 200 witnesses,
creditors said in a filing in U.S. District Court in Washington.
Lehman is asking a federal judge to order Geithner to be
interviewed by lawyers for the firm and its creditors. The
Treasury Department “has for many months delayed and ultimately
refused to allow the testimony of Secretary Timothy F.
Geithner,” which is key to the case, they said.  The filing, e-mailed to Bloomberg, was confirmed by a
Lehman official who declined to be named. The filing was made in
person, the official said. It couldn’t be immediately confirmed
in court records.  Geithner, at the time president of the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York, discussed the collateral JPMorgan was demanding for
its loans with Richard Fuld and James Dimon, Lehman’s and
JPMorgan’s chief executive officers, in the week before Lehman’s
bankruptcy, according to the filing. He also met with Dimon and
 Henry Paulson , then Treasury Secretary, to discuss “concerns”
that Dimon was using the crisis to strengthen his bank at
Lehman’s expense, they said.  The Treasury also has refused to let Paulson testify,
creditors said. They would address the refusal separately, they
said. Lehman’s official committee of creditors works closely
with the defunct firm on its plans and lawsuits, it has said.  Anthony Coley, a Treasury Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail message seeking
comment on the filing.  Joseph Evangelisti , a JPMorgan spokesman,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on
Lehman creditors’ account of Dimon’s conversations with
officials.  Lehman filed the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in
2008, listing $613 billion in debt.  The main case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
08-13555, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The lawsuit is Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. v.
JPMorgan Chase Bank NA, 10-03266, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  New York Seeks to Pursue Ernst & Young Lehman Fee Suit  Ernst & Young LLP, bankrupt  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH) ’s
former auditor, should “disgorge” $125 million in fees earned
in an alleged fraud involving so-called Repo 105 transactions
that concealed tens of billions of dollars in debt, the New York
attorney general said.  Attorney General Eric Schneiderman asked a judge Feb. 17 to
let him pursue the suit after the auditing firm tried to get it
dismissed. The state is limited by law from recovering the fees
for itself or for Lehman’s former shareholders, Ernst & Young
said.  “E&Y is wrong on every count,” Schneiderman said in a
court filing in U.S. District Court in Manhattan. “It is well-
settled that the state can, and frequently does, obtain
disgorgement of ill-gotten gains under public enforcement
statutes.”  Repo 105 transactions are a form of short-term financing
that Lehman used to move as much as $50 billion off its balance
sheet temporarily to show investors it wasn’t carrying too much
debt, according to a bankruptcy examiner’s report. The report
was used as a basis for many suits, including one that Ernst &
Young is fighting by investors including the Alameda County
Employees’ Retirement Association, which alleges the firm made
misleading statements about Lehman’s finances before its 2008
bankruptcy.  Charlie Perkins, an Ernst & Young spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to a call and e-mail after regular business
hours seeking comment on the attorney general’s filing. The
auditing firm has said its work for Lehman met all applicable
professional standards and applied rules that existed at the
time.  Schneiderman said New York wasn’t suing on behalf of
Lehman’s shareholders and could distribute money obtained from
the suit “in any manner that serves justice, including to the
state.”  Lehman filed the biggest U.S. bankruptcy in history in
September 2008 with $639 billion in assets. It has said it will
spend the next few years completing a liquidation to pay
unsecured creditors less than 18 cents on the dollar.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Ernst &
Young LLP, 11-cv-00384, U.S. District Court, Southern District
of New York (Manhattan).  Legal Challenge to Google Privacy Policy Is Baseless, U.S. Says  A privacy group should lose its bid for a court order
forcing the Federal Trade Commission to challenge  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
changes to its privacy policy, the U.S. Justice Department said.  The Electronic Privacy Information Center has no basis in
the law to compel the FTC to take enforcement action against
Google, said Drake Cutini, a Justice Department lawyer, in a
filing Feb. 17 in federal court in Washington. The privacy group
sued Feb. 8, claiming Google’s planned changes to its privacy
policy violate a consent order requiring the search engine
company to protect consumer data.  The group said in its complaint that the FTC should sue
Google. The consent order stems from a lawsuit that the group,
known as EPIC, filed against Google.  “We are asking the court to dismiss the case because
parties such as EPIC are barred by law from interfering with the
proper investigation and enforcement of FTC orders,” Claudia
Farrell, an FTC spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “There can be no question that the Federal Trade
Commission has a duty to enforce its final order in the Google
matter,”  Marc Rotenberg , EPIC’s executive director, said in an
e-mail.  Google, the world’s  most-popular search engine , announced
plans on Jan. 24 to unify privacy policies for 60 services and
products including YouTube videos and Android software for
mobile phones. The move, set to take effect March 1, would
simplify conditions for user agreements, the Mountain View,
California-based company said.  EPIC said the plan would allow Google to combine more
information about users, reduce users’ control of their own data
and give more personal information to advertisers.  The FTC’s 2011 settlement with Google over privacy, which
barred sharing user data outside the company without clear
permission, stemmed from a complaint filed by the advocacy group
in 2010.  The case is Electronic Privacy Information Center v.
Federal Trade Commission, 12-00206, U.S. District Court,
District of Columbia (Washington).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Court Filings  Credit Suisse Trader Case Was Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s suit against
Kareem Serageldin,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s former global head
of structured credit trading, was the most-read docket on the
Bloomberg Law system last week for the second week in a row.  Serageldin was charged in a scheme to falsify prices tied
to collateralized debt obligations to meet targets and boost
year-end bonuses for his $5.35 billion trading book.  Serageldin, 38, who lives in the U.K. and led the
securities department of Credit Suisse’s investment banking
division, was named in an indictment on Feb. 1 in New York. Two
of his former subordinates, David Higgs, 42, and Salmaan
Siddiqui, 36, pleaded guilty in federal court in New York on
Feb. 1 and said they’re cooperating with the U.S. in the probe.  The cases are U.S. v. Higgs, 12-cr-00088, and U.S. v.
Siddiqui, 12-cr-00089, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The SEC case is U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission v. Serageldin, 12-cv-00796, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 