-- Goldman Sachs, Facebook, Hyundai: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2012-02-21T12:38:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/goldman-sachs-facebook-apple-hyundai-intellectual-property.html
Sergey Aleynikov, a former  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  computer programmer, walked out of a  New York 
courthouse the day after his conviction for stealing the bank’s
high-speed trading code was reversed by a U.S. appeals court.  Wearing a grey sweatsuit, white tennis shoes and a huge
grin, Aleynikov, 42, left the building where he had been
convicted in December 2010 and entered a waiting car with his
lawyer,  Kevin Marino .  “Justice occasionally works,” Aleynikov told reporters as
he left Feb. 17. “This was such big news to me I haven’t had
any time to think about what would happen.”  Aleynikov, a naturalized U.S. citizen born in  Russia , said
he hoped to be with his three daughters, ages 8, 6 and 3. Until
Feb. 17, he had been serving an eight-year sentence at the
federal prison in Fort Dix,  New Jersey .  “I’m very grateful to my mother and my aunt who supported
me from Russia, and my friends who stood by me and believed in
my innocence,” he said. “One lesson you learn is to really
start valuing your life, day-to-day is a victory.”  After hearing oral arguments from both prosecutors and
Marino Feb. 16, the U.S. Court of Appeals in Manhattan issued a
one-page order vacating Aleynikov’s convictions for economic
espionage and the interstate transportation of stolen property.
The appeals court said it would issue an opinion explaining the
ruling later.  The appeals court also issued a mandate that would have
foreclosed any further challenge to its decision. The office of
Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara persuaded the court to set
aside the mandate so it can argue for a rehearing of the appeal,
either before a three-judge panel or all the court’s available
judges.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for Bharara’s office,
declined to comment on the ruling.  Marino said he was confident the appeals court’s decision
would stand.  “It’s over now,” said Marino, of Marino, Tortorella &
Boyle PC in Chatham, New Jersey. “We’re on firm ground. This
was a wrongheaded prosecution that should never have been
brought.”  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, who presided over the
trial, ordered Aleynikov released from prison Feb. 17. After a
brief hearing this afternoon with prosecutors, Aleynikov and his
lawyers, she agreed to release him on his own recognizance.  Aleynikov was convicted by a jury in December 2010 of
violating the Economic Espionage Act and the Interstate
Transportation of Stolen Property Act. He was sentenced last
March.  On his last day of work at New York-based Goldman Sachs in
June 2009, Aleynikov uploaded hundreds of thousands of lines of
source code from the firm’s high-frequency trading system,
prosecutors said.  He circumvented Goldman Sachs’s security, sent the code to
a server in Germany, compressed and encrypted it, and took it
with him to a meeting with new employers in Chicago, the U.S.
said. Prosecutors argued Aleynikov wanted it as a “cheat
sheet” to start a trading system at his new job.  The case is U.S. v. Aleynikov, 1:10-cr-00096, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Facebook Wins Lawsuit Against Power Ventures Over Login Data  Facebook Inc. (FB) , the operator of the world’s largest social-
networking site, won a 2008 lawsuit accusing Power Ventures
Inc.’s Power.com of accessing and storing users’ login data
without authorization.  The ruling on Feb. 16 by U.S. District Judge James Ware
paves the way for hearings on damages for Facebook.  “The undisputed facts establish that defendants
circumvented technical barriers” to access Facebook’s site,
Ware wrote in a 19-page opinion issued without a trial.  Facebook sued Power Ventures in December 2008 in federal
court in San Jose,  California , saying Power.com offered users
the ability to retrieve their Facebook messages and other
information from Facebook’s computer servers without permission.  Facebook, based in Menlo Park, California, accused
Power.com of infringing its copyrights and trademarks and
violating computer fraud and unfair competition laws. It sought
a court order prohibiting further access and unspecific damages.  Power Ventures is based in the Cayman Islands, according to
court papers.  Power.com  is up for sale on the Internet.  Facebook filed papers with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission for an initial public offering on Feb. 1.  “We are pleased that the court ruled in our favor,” Craig
Clark, lead litigation counsel for Facebook, said in an e-mailed
statement. “We will continue to enforce our rights against bad
actors who attempt to circumvent Facebook’s privacy and security
protections and spam people.”  “Facebook has established a dangerous precedent for the
future of users rights to own and control their data,” said
Steven Vachani, chief executive officer of Power Ventures, in an
e-mailed statement. “We intend to aggressively continue this
fight.”  The case is Facebook Inc. v. Power Ventures Inc., 08CV5780,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of California (San Jose).  Patent  HTC Loses Patent Case Against Apple at Trade Agency  HTC Corp. (2498)  lost a patent-infringement claim against  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  at the U.S. International Trade Commission, the first of
the Taiwanese handset maker’s cases targeting the iPhone.  Apple didn’t violate an HTC patent for controlling how
mobile phones manage power supply, the Washington-based
commission  said  Feb. 16. The ruling completes a review of an
October finding by an agency judge, who had determined that
Apple devices didn’t infringe HTC’s intellectual property.  The commission also found that HTC wasn’t using the
invention at issue in the case, a requirement to have an
infringement violation found against another company. The
agency’s full opinion will be made available after both sides
have a chance to redact confidential information.  “We are disappointed by the commission’s ruling, and look
forward to reading the full opinion to understand its
reasoning,” Grace Lei, HTC’s general counsel, said in an e-
mail. “We’ll explore all options, including appeal.”  HTC, the second-largest maker of devices that run on  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, has a second case against Apple that is
scheduled to begin Aug. 30. Cupertino, California-based Apple
and Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC have been using patent lawsuits to
help protect their share of the smartphone market, which
expanded 55 percent last quarter.  Apple filed first in March 2010, seeking to block imports
of HTC’s Android phones. Apple contends that Android devices
infringe its patents. The commission, which can ban imports of
products found to infringe U.S. patents, found in December that
HTC was infringing an Apple patent related to data-detection.
HTC said it’s been able to design around that feature.  The HTC case against Apple is In the Matter of Portable
Electronic Devices, 337-721, U.S. International Trade Commission
( Washington ).  Apple Files Competition Claim Against Motorola Mobility  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. (MMI)  said Apple Inc. filed a
complaint with the European Union’s competition authority
accusing the company of violating a pledge to license industry-
standard patents on fair terms.  Motorola Mobility said in a regulatory filing that it was
notified of the complaint Feb. 17 by the European Commission.
 Jennifer Erickson , a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman, said the
company is willing to negotiate a patent license with Apple.  Apple and Motorola Mobility have sued each other in the
U.S. and  Europe  over technology used in smartphones, a market
that researcher IDC said grew 55 percent last year. Motorola
Mobility won two out of three rulings in lawsuits it filed
against Apple in a Mannheim, Germany, court, and in one case
forced Apple to remove some older iPhone and iPad models from
its online store in Germany.  Companies often collaborate on standards that are used to
make products work together, with participants pledging to
fairly license any patents on the standards they help create.
Apple contends  Motorola Mobility (MMI)  is violating that commitment.
Motorola Mobility, which has said it’s been in licensing talks
with Apple since 2007, denied the charge.  “MMI has a long-standing practice of licensing our patents
on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms and we offered
those to Apple,” Erickson said.  German courts have become the focal point of litigation
between the two companies, with each seeking orders that would
limit sales of the others’ products. On Feb. 16, a court in
Munich said Motorola Mobility’s mobile phones infringe an Apple
patent for a method of unlocking touch screens.  Google Inc., which is buying Libertyville, Illinois-based
Motorola Mobility for $12.5 billion, pledged to continue the
company’s licensing practices. Regulators in Europe and the U.S.
granted approval to the purchase while expressing some
reservation about how industry-standard patents are handled.  Hyundai, Kia Sued by Toyota Foe in Fight Over Hybrids  Hyundai Motor Co. and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270)  were named in a
patent-infringement lawsuit filed by a company that had been
embroiled in a years-long fight with Toyota Motor Corp. over
hybrid-engine technology.  Closely held Paice LLC and Baltimore’s  Abell Foundation , a
non-profit that’s invested in Paice, filed the suit Feb. 16 in
federal court in Baltimore, accusing the Seoul-based automakers
of infringing three patents.  The complaint targets Hyundai’s Sonata Hybrid and the Kia
Optima Hybrid. Hyundai and Kia, which are affiliated and whose
hybrid vehicles use the same powertrain technology, were aware
of the patent litigation with Toyota. The litigation ended with
a 2010 settlement reached after eight years of legal fighting,
Paice said.  “Since as early as 2004, Paice has contacted Hyundai on
numerous occasions and offered to discuss its patented hybrid
technology,” Paice said in the complaint. The company is
seeking cash compensation and an order that prevents further use
of the technology without permission.  “Hyundai Motor America is still examining the issues
raised in the lawsuit, which we received a short time ago, and
is not able to comment on the specifics of the suit at this
time,” Chris Hosford, a spokesman for Hyundai said. Officials
with Kia couldn’t immediately be reached for comment.  Paice was founded by Alex Severinsky, a Soviet emigrant who
began his career developing antitank-warfare instrumentation. In
the 1990s, he developed a high-voltage method to power gas-
electric vehicles that he contends is the basis for modern
hybrid technology.  Ford Motor Co., maker of the Fusion hybrid car, also agreed
to license Paice’s technology to resolve lawsuits.  The case is Paice LLC v.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , 12cv499, U.S.
District Court for the District of Maryland (Baltimore).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Megaupload Defendants Face More Criminal Counts, U.S. Says  Megaupload.com, a file-sharing website charged with
illegally distributing copyrighted movies and music, faces more
counts of criminal copyright infringement and wire fraud.  A revised indictment filed in a U.S. court in Alexandria,
Virginia, on Feb. 16 charged Megaupload.com and founder Kim Dotcom with three new criminal copyright counts and five new
wire fraud counts for allegedly running an illegal enterprise
for five years that unlawfully copied works and made them
available for download to customers. The original Jan. 5
indictment included five counts.  Since September 2005, what prosecutors have dubbed the
“Mega Conspiracy” has generated more than $175 million in
criminal proceeds by distributing millions of copies of
copyrighted works, such as movies, television programs, music,
books, video games and software, according to the indictment.  Megaupload reproduced copyrighted works directly from other
websites including Google Inc.’s YouTube for illegal sharing and
to give the false impression that a related video-sharing
website hosted user-generated, rather than copyrighted, content,
prosecutors said in an e-mailed statement on Feb. 17.  The conspiracy was led by Dotcom, a resident of Hong Kong
and  New Zealand  and a dual citizen of Finland and Germany, who
founded Megaupload Ltd., according to the indictment.  Dotcom, imprisoned in New Zealand since Jan. 20 at the
request of the U.S., failed to win release Feb. 16 after a judge
declined to immediately rule on his bid for bail.  The case is U.S. v Megaupload.com, 12-0003, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  ‘Spider-Man’ Trial Over Script Royalties Scheduled for January  Director Julie Taymor and the producers of “Spider-Man:
Turn Off the Dark” are set to square off in federal court in
Manhattan in January, 10 years after  Marvel Entertainment (MVL)  began
negotiating for its superhero to fly on Broadway.  In court on Feb. 17, U.S. District Judge Katherine Forrest
scheduled a jury trial to start Jan. 7, to resolve Taymor’s
claim that she’s owed money as co-author of the show.  On Feb. 16, producers and the  Stage Directors and
Choreographers Society  announced a settlement regarding her
director royalties. The lead producers are Michael Cohl and
Jeremiah Harris.  Taymor, 59, was removed from the stunt-filled $75 million
musical in March, 2011, after critics lambasted it during an
extended preview period. She sued the producers on Nov. 8,
saying they violated her intellectual property rights by making
changes without her permission and didn’t pay royalties due her
as a co-book writer.  In her suit, Taymor claims she’s owed at least $2,917.50 a
week from April 17, 2011, to the present, plus damages.  Dale Cendali, a lawyer in the New York office of Kirkland &
Ellis who represents  Cohl and Harris’s 8 Legged Productions,
declined to comment after the hearing. Taymor’s spokesman, Chris
Kanarick, didn’t return an e-mail on Feb. 17.  The case is Julie Taymor v. 8 Legged Productions LLC, 1:11-
cv-08002-RJH, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Lawyer Says National Candidates Violate Songwriters’ Rights  The issue of political campaigns using popular songs
without permission has come up again this year. Newt Gingrich is
being sued for using Survivor’s “Eye of the Tiger” and K’naan
has asked Mitt Romney to stop using his “Wavin’ Flag.”
Lawrence Iser, an attorney at Kinsella Weitzman Iser Kump &
Aldisert in Santa Monica, California, who represented both
Jackson Browne and David Byrne when their songs were used in
commercials for GOP candidates, spoke with Bloomberg Law on the
issue.  To hear the interview, click here.  Pirate Bay Website Infringes U.K. Record Copyrights, Judge Rules  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s British unit and eight other record labels won
a U.K. trial on their claims that users and operators of Pirate
Bay, the Sweden-based website used for online file sharing,
violate their copyrights.  The operators of the site, who weren’t represented at the
trial, “incite or persuade” users to commit copyright
infringement, Judge Richard Arnold ruled yesterday in  London .
The users have “a common design to infringe.”  While Pirate Bay isn’t a defendant, the court’s finding was
required before the record labels could seek a court order
forcing  British Sky Broadcasting Group Plc (BSY)  and five other
Internet-service providers to block access to the site,
according to the judgment. Arnold said the case was similar to a
landmark ruling last year in which ISPs were ordered to block
access to a file-sharing website known as Newzbin.  Pirate Bay enables downloading of digitized music and films
using software called BitTorrent that enables complete works to
be assembled from pieces on other users’ computers. The site has
faced civil and criminal proceedings in other countries,
including in Sweden. Arnold said the website was openly opposed
to the record labels’ copyrights.  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Ellen Rosen  in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 