-- Google Counters Microsoft Allegations on Browser Privacy Tools
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-21T19:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/google-counters-microsoft-allegations-on-browser-privacy-tools.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  attempted to counter
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s allegations that it sidestepped privacy
settings in the Internet Explorer Web browser by saying that the
policies in question are “widely non-operational.”  Microsoft had said in a  blog  post yesterday that Google is
circumventing certain privacy settings and tracking users of the
Internet Explorer browser with so-called cookies, which keep
tabs on what people do on the Web. The tool cited by Microsoft
asks websites to disclose information about their privacy
practices.  “It is impractical to comply with Microsoft’s request
while providing modern Web functionality,” Google said in an e-
mailed statement. “Today the Microsoft policy is widely non-
operational.”  More than 11,000 websites were not providing the
information as requested by Microsoft, Google said, citing
research from 2010.  Google, owner of the world’s largest search engine, is
grappling with concerns from privacy groups and government
officials around the world over how it uses information about
Web surfers. A Stanford University  study  released last week said
Google violated users’ privacy on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s Safari browser
through its DoubleClick ad network.  In yesterday’s blog post, Microsoft said its Internet
Explorer browser blocks third-party software called cookies,
unless a site presents a recognized policy statement indicating
how the site will use the cookie and will avoid user tracking.
The “P3P” policy statement is derived from a Web standards
body.  Google bypasses this “P3P” privacy setting in Microsoft
browsers, Redmond, Washington-based Microsoft said. The
company’s new Internet Explorer 9 has an additional privacy
feature that is not susceptible to this type of bypass.  Still, thousands of websites are not using P3P standards
requested by Microsoft, according to a report by Carnegie Mellon
University that was cited in the Google statement. Google, based
in  Mountain View ,  California , said Microsoft began using the
protocol in its browser in 2002.  -- Editors: Tom Giles, James Callan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  