-- Google’s Ghonim Recalls Sparking Egyptian Mutiny via Facebook
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-02-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/google-s-ghonim-recalls-sparking-egyptian-mutiny-via-facebook.html
Last February, viewers of  Egypt ’s
Dream TV network were stunned to see a young man weep in the
middle of an interview and walk off the set. Fresh out of
captivity, he was only just discovering the names and faces of
those who had died in anti-government protests.  He was Wael Ghonim, Google Inc.’s head of marketing for the
 Middle East  and North Africa. Through nimble use of social
media, Ghonim had helped unleash a wave of protests that, four
days later, would end the three-decade presidency of  Hosni Mubarak . In “ Revolution 2.0 ,” his new memoir, the 31-year-old
agitator recalls that Web-generated mutiny.  Ghonim has his critics, who say he dropped the cause. Yet
his role in igniting revolt is beyond dispute. A joke about it
even cropped up last year: Mubarak dies and runs into his
predecessors --  Anwar Sadat , who was assassinated, and Gamal
Abdel Nasser, who had heart failure. They ask him how he was
killed. “Facebook,” says Mubarak.  Ghonim is a reluctant hero. Just as he refused to
grandstand in thronged  Tahrir Square , he resists megalomania in
the book, despite his 340,000 Twitter followers.  The lachrymose television guest is far less prone to emote
on the page. He writes in clipped sentences with an understated
style that can border on the banal. “My skills and experience
were enriched by Google,” he declares on page 26.  Dial-Up Internet  Ghonim was born into Egypt’s secular middle class. His
physician father moved the family to  Saudi Arabia , then stayed
on as the rest of the family moved back. Wael got a job while at
Cairo University -- to pay off his huge bills for dial-up
Internet access.  In 1998, he founded a YouTube of sorts: IslamWay, a forum
for sharing audiotaped religious content. Heading to the U.S. in
2001 to donate the site to a Muslim charity, he met and married
an American convert, and moved back after the Sept. 11 terrorist
attacks. Seven years later, he joined  Google (GOOG)  in Cairo, then
transferred to Dubai.  Distance did nothing to alleviate his anger at Egypt’s
plight. In 2010, he set up a  Facebook (FB)  support page for Nobel
Peace Prize winner  Mohamed ElBaradei , who had just returned to
Egypt. ElBaradei taught him one thing: “We did not need a
savior; we had to do this ourselves,” he writes.  Rage turned to outrage when on June 8, 2010, Ghonim saw a
photo of the disfigured Khaled Said -- a young man who had been
dragged out of an Alexandria Internet cafe and fatally beaten.
Justice for Said became his primary cause.  Anonymous on Facebook  Ghonim set up a Facebook page called “Kullena Khaled Said”
(“We Are All Khaled Said”) -- constantly changing Internet
proxies to stay nameless -- and scheduled a peaceful protest in
Alexandria where people in black held hands and faced the sea.
The protest eventually snowballed into a Jan. 25 rally. By Feb.
11, Mubarak was gone.  Ghonim spent 12 of those heady days blindfolded in a cell,
arrested on suspicion of espionage after dining with two
American colleagues from Google. While in detention, he was
unmasked as the Facebook webmaster -- and miraculously freed.
The tide had turned, and he had helped turn it.  “Revolution 2.0” contains few personal anecdotes, besides
his wife begging him to spend more time with the two kids.
Ghonim seems more at ease in virtual reality -- “a real-life
introvert yet an Internet extrovert,” he says. Climactic moments
are evoked by reproducing his Facebook rallying cries, which, ex
post facto, lack fizzle, and which all end with the tally of
Facebook “likes” and “comments.”  Web pages and mouse clicks don’t add up to a rousing
revolutionary narrative. Yet in the real world, Ghonim’s low-key
style proved more effective than guerrilla warfare, and his book
is a balanced account that gives credit where it’s due.  Today, Ghonim is on sabbatical from Google to set up an
education-and-technology nonprofit. In Egypt’s political pecking
order, he’s nowhere: The dominant powers are the Muslim
Brotherhood and the military. Yet there’s no doubting that his
tell-it-like-it-is memoir will be studied by historians for
generations to come.  “Revolution 2.0: The Power of the People Is Greater Than
the People in Power” is published by Houghton Mifflin Harcourt
in the U.S. and Fourth Estate in the U.K. (308 pages, $26, 14.99
pounds). To buy this book in  North America , click  here .  (Farah Nayeri is a writer for Muse, the arts & leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 