-- Banks, Insurers Likely to Participate in Greek Swap After Past Writedowns
-- B y   F a b i o   B e n e d e t t i - V a l e n t i n i   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-21T16:06:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/greek-debt-swap-program-seen-getting-backing-from-europe-s-biggest-banks.html
Europe’s largest lenders and
insurers are likely to accede to the Greek debt swap because
they’ve already written down their sovereign holdings and want
to avert the risk of a default, analysts said.  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  Axa SA (CS)  have all
written down Greek government bonds by more than 70 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. This may limit losses
after private creditors and Greece overnight agreed to a deal
that could trigger a 74 percent loss in the securities' net
present value, according to estimates from Guillaume Tiberghien,
a London-based analyst at Exane BNP Paribas.  “European banks have had a long time to prepare and many
already have the losses behind them,” said  Dirk Becker , a
Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets. “In the end,
this deal was negotiated by the biggest banks and insurers, so a
large participation rate is assured.”  The biggest sovereign restructuring in history averts a
default that Deutsche Bank Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  has said could have triggered a “meltdown” far worse
than the aftermath of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s 2008
collapse. The success of the swap depends on how many investors
participate in the transaction.  Acceptance Rate  “The acceptance rate will be 90 percent for sure; we will
see if it hits 95 percent,” Hans Humes, president of hedge fund
Greylock Capital Management and a member of the  Institute of
International Finance ’s steering committee that negotiated the
swap, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television’s
“InBusiness with  Margaret Brennan .” “Given the circumstances,
the private-sector bondholders should be reluctantly
accepting.”  Under the deal, investors will forgive 53.5 percent of
their principal and exchange their remaining holdings for new
Greek  government bonds  and notes from the European Financial
Stability Facility. The plan seeks to reduce Greece’s debt
burden by 107 billion euros ($169 billion), about half the
country’s estimated gross domestic product for 2011, the IIF
said.  Bondholders will exchange 31.5 percent of their principal
into 20 new Greek government bonds with maturities of 11 to 30
years and the rest into short-dated notes issued by the EFSF.
The coupon on the new bonds was set at 2 percent until February
2015, 3 percent for the following five years and 4.3 percent
until 2042.  Collective Action Clauses  Greece’s government said it will introduce legislation to
parliament for so-called collective action clauses that will
allow it to enforce losses on bondholders refusing to take up
the offer. The government would need support from the owners of
50 percent of the bonds to force the rest to accept, said  Pierre Flabbee , a Paris-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  The new bonds will be subject to  English law , meaning
further changes to the securities can only be made by agreement
with bondholders, said Rodrigo Olivares-Caminal, who teaches
banking and financial law at Queen Mary, University of  London .  “It’s a good protection for bondholders,” he said. “But
 Greece  is in a worse position because it will not be able to
change the rules of the game on an ongoing basis.”  The BdB Association of German Banks said it expects a high
participation rate after lenders had time to prepare for the
restructuring. The VOeB association of German public banks said
the private sector’s involvement must be an “isolated case” in
order not to jeopardize investors’ confidence in sovereign debt.  Bigger Losses  “These three-month negotiations would be good-for-nothing
if then the banks say no,” said Kepler’s Flabbee. “When
provisions are taken, it’s an implicit approval for the plan.”  The IIF and European officials initially agreed to a 50
percent writedown at an October summit in Brussels. Greece’s
worsening economy put the debt-cutting target in doubt and
forced bondholders to accept bigger losses. At the start of
talks in November, creditors wanted an 8 percent coupon on the
new securities, a person with knowledge of the discussions said.
Today’s agreement foresees a weighted average coupon of 3.65
percent over the full 30-year period, the IIF said.  The IIF’s steering committee that negotiated the swap
included representatives from banks and insurers with the
largest holdings of Greek government bonds, including  National
Bank of Greece SA , BNP Paribas, Commerzbank AG, Deutsche Bank,
Intesa Sanpaolo SpA,  ING Groep NV (INGA) ,  Allianz SE (ALV)  and Axa.  The 32 members of the IIF’s larger creditors’ committee
have already taken at least 24 billion euros in combined
writedowns on the country’s sovereign debt, and have at least 44
billion euros in residual holdings, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg from their most recent reports.  BNP, Societe Generale  “BNP Paribas and  Societe Generale (GLE)  have provisioned
enough,” said Tiberghien at Exane BNP Paribas. “They have
every interest in participating” in the swap offer.  Hedge funds  holding Greek bonds may still resist the deal
and seek to get paid in full, either by the Greek government or
by triggering payouts from insurance contracts known as credit-
default swaps. Investors in Greek debt that are hedged with
credit-default swaps would be paid the face value of their
holdings in exchange for the underlying securities or the cash
equivalent if the insurance contracts are triggered.  A trigger would be avoided if Greece and its creditors
reach a voluntary agreement, or one that’s not binding on all
holders, while use of a collective-action clause to impose
losses on investors holding out against the exchange could
trigger the contracts, according to rules of the International
Swaps & Derivatives Association.  Credit-default swaps cover a net $3.2 billion of Greek
debt, less than 1 percent of the country’s bonds outstanding.  ‘Worst Option’  “A voluntary deal is the worst option for the hedge
funds,” said Kepler’s Becker. Such investors want to be repaid
in full by the borrower or a triggering of the CDS, he said.  Greece’s four largest banks are the country’s biggest
private creditors, with almost 29 billion euros of holdings of
government bonds. They have so far recorded combined losses of
only 4.3 billion euros on the bonds, according to their most
recent disclosures. The banks will receive a capital injection
as part of the bailout, allowing them to recognize more losses.  The biggest incentive of all for banks to help bail out
Greece is a possible repeat of the Lehman Brothers collapse,
which sparked the biggest financial crisis since the Great
Depression and led to losses of more than $2 trillion and
taxpayer bailouts from London to Berlin to  Washington , analysts
said.  “The fear is that the collapse of Greece might trigger the
collapse or a run on a couple of banks,” said Olivares-Caminal.
“They are buying time to be able to recapitalize the banks and
ring-fence Greece from the rest of  Europe .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fabio Benedetti-Valentini in Paris at 
 fabiobv@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  