-- Greek Rescue Leaves Risk of Default Alive in Europe as Austerity Deepens
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-02-21T12:51:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/greek-rescue-leaves-risk-of-default-alive-in-europe-as-austerity-deepens.html
Europe  is still struggling to avoid
the threat of default as investors warn Greece will soon risk
violating the terms of its second bailout in three years.  Seven months of negotiations ended in the pre-dawn hours in
Brussels with Greece winning 130 billion euros ($172 billion) in
aid it needs to avoid a March bankruptcy. Any respite may prove
temporary after it signed up to a program of austerity and
economic reform aimed at slashing debt to 120.5 percent of gross
domestic product by 2020 from about 160 percent last year.  Even with investors and central bankers chipping in to
relieve the debt burden, economists from Citigroup Inc. to
Commerzbank AG concluded  Greece  may again fail to deliver amid a
fifth year of recession, looming elections and social unrest.
The upshot could be the removal of aid and renewed debate over
the merits of fresh assistance before year-end as policy makers
shift toward doing more to inoculate the rest of Europe.  “The bailout bandage is on, but it won’t take much to
unravel,” said  David Miller , partner at Cheviot Asset
Management in London. “The  euro zone  has done its best to
ensure that Greece will deliver on promises, but there is
considerable scope for backtracking on  deficit reduction .”  Financial markets signaled doubt the accord will fix
Greece’s travails permanently or spell an end to the two-year
debt crisis. The euro surrendered initial gains against the
dollar and European stocks fell from a six-month high.  Bankruptcy Risks  By supporting Greece, Europe’s high command chose the
financial and political cost of awarding fresh money over the
risk of a bankruptcy that could splinter the 13-year-old euro
area. At least 386 billion euros has now been committed to save
Greece, Ireland and  Portugal  with investors predicting the
government in Lisbon at least will need more support.  To tackle future fiscal emergencies and limit contagion,
officials held out the prospect of boosting their firewall to
750 billion euros from a planned limit of 500 billion euros when
a permanent aid fund is paired with the temporary facility
starting in July. They also cajoled investors into providing
more debt relief in an exchange meant to tide Greece past a
March  bond repayment .  In return for the new cash, Greece signed up to cuts in
pensions, the minimum wage, health-care and defense spending, as
well as layoffs of state employees and asset sales. It must
implement that austerity with unemployment already topping 20
percent, meaning more retrenchment might end up only compounding
the debt stress.  Dangers ‘Substantial’  “The danger of Greece saving itself into economic
depression and having to default and exit the common currency
zone remains substantial,” said  Christian Schulz , an economist
at Berenberg Bank in London.  Jennifer McKeown  of Capital
Economics Ltd. repeated her forecast that Greece will quit the
euro by the end of the year.  The odds that Greece will remain encumbered by debt were
exposed by an analysis by European Union and International
Monetary Fund experts that highlights what could go wrong with a
country unable to grow out of its fiscal travails by devaluing
its currency. In a worst-case scenario, the debt may rebound to
160 percent of GDP by 2020 rather than nearing the 120 percent
the IMF deems “sustainable.”  “Given the risks, the Greek program may thus remain
accident-prone, with questions about sustainability hanging over
it,” said the report by the so-called troika, which also
includes the  European Central Bank .  ‘Fully Fledged’ Default  The study exposes the difficulties Greece faces in
delivering its promises amid a crisis-torn economy, said
Guillaume Menuet, an economist at Citigroup in London. The
country may miss its deficit goals as soon as June and have to
prepare for a “fully fledged, coordinated default” by year-
end, he said.  Joerg Kraemer, chief economist at Commerzbank in  Frankfurt ,
calculates the debt ratio will rise to 127 percent if annual
growth is 0.5 percentage points lower than assumed.  “Greece will find it difficult to shoulder even the
reduced debt in the long run if it does not implement far-
reaching reforms,” said Kraemer. “For the second half of the
year, there is a significant probability that a frustrated EU
stops payments to Greece.”  If 2010’s 110 billion-euro bailout is anything to go by,
Greece will struggle to reach its targets. Privatizations
supposed to reach 19 billion euros by 2015 have so far yielded
about a tenth of that amount and  Barclays Capital  estimates
that, even with promised fiscal cuts, just 16,000 state jobs
were shed in the three years through the third quarter of 2011
compared with 466,000 in the private sector.  Outside Scrutiny  In a bid to prevent renewed failure even if it means
eroding Greek sovereignty, European governments will tighten
their scrutiny. A special account will be established that gives
priority to keeping Greece solvent before releasing money for
the country’s budget. A European Commission task force will also
be embedded in  Athens .  The biggest near-term risk may be elections which could be
held as soon as April. In a poll released today, nearly every
Greek questioned by GPO for Mega TV said the budget measures
promised by the current government were too harsh.  “The new Greek government could refuse to follow through
on its commitment,” said David Mackie, chief European economist
at JPMorgan Chase & Co., who noted Europe’s leverage over Greece
will recede once investors complete a debt exchange and the
first aid payments are received.  Debt-Swap Relief  Other hurdles remain. Unless 90 percent of investors sign
up to the bond swap, Greece may need to enforce it, creating
legal difficulties. Finland and  Germany  are among the nations
whose lawmakers must back the new loans as voters attack the
bailouts. German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the
IMF plans to add 13 billion euros to the bailout, less than the
third it contributed to the first program.  The euro area has nevertheless “bought time” for
countries such as Portugal to prove they are more creditworthy
than Greece and to erect stronger defenses in the form of a
larger bailout fund, said  Carsten Brzeski , an economist at ING
Groep in Brussels.  “The often-cited Greek can has again been kicked down the
road,” he said. “The good thing is that the can is still on
the road, but it requires a huge amount of stamina and patience
to keep it there.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  London  at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  