-- Greece Wins Second Bailout as Europe Picks Aid Over Default
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-21T09:28:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/greece-wins-second-bailout-as-european-leaders-choose-aid-over-default.html
Debt-stricken  Greece  won a second
bailout after European governments wrung concessions from
private investors and tapped into European Central Bank profits
to shield the euro area from a precedent-setting default.  Finance ministers awarded 130 billion euros ($173 billion)
in aid, engineered a central-bank profits transfer and coaxed
investors into providing more debt relief in an exchange meant
to tide Greece past a March bond repayment. Stocks fell and the
euro fluctuated as investors speculated the deal won’t fix
Greece’s long-term challenges.  Bondholders’ response to the swap, Greece’s tolerance of
more austerity and a gantlet of parliamentary approvals in
northern European countries gripped by an anti-bailout mindset
loom as risks to the latest salvage operation.  “Everybody understood that this was the moment of truth,”
Belgian Finance Minister Steven Vanackere told reporters early
today after 13 1/2 hours of talks in Brussels.  The assistance brings to at least 386 billion euros the
sums spent or committed to save Greece, Ireland and  Portugal 
from bankruptcy, and to insulate Europe from a ruinous financial
cascade that might endanger the 13-year-old monetary union by
dragging down  Spain  or Italy.  Euro, Stocks  The accord initially lifted the 17-nation euro by as much
as 0.4 percent against the dollar before it slipped amid
speculation the latest pact won’t solve Greece’s debt woes. The
single currency rebounded to $1.3283 as of 10:03 a.m. in
Brussels, up 0.3 percent.  European stocks  retreated from a six-
month high.  Tests and questions remain. Unless 90 percent of investors
sign up to the bond swap, Greece may need to use force to secure
the debt relief, entering legal difficulties. Finland and
Germany are among the nations whose lawmakers must back the new
loans.  The  International Monetary Fund  also must decide how much
it is willing to contribute to the package. Greece has to enact
the prescribed austerity and economic reforms that could prove
too much to deliver amid a fifth year of recession, and risk
falling foul of social unrest and upcoming elections.  “Greece will find it difficult to shoulder even the
reduced debt in the long-run if it does not implement far-
reaching reforms,” said  Joerg Kraemer , chief economist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The probability will rise in the
second half of the year that a frustrated EU stops payments to
Greece.”  Fiscal Emergencies  Seeking to limit contagion, European officials also held
out the prospect of boosting the backstop for future fiscal
emergencies to 750 billion euros from a planned limit of 500
billion euros when a permanent aid fund is paired with the
temporary fund starting in July.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , chairman of
the overnight talks, predicted that a March 1-2 summit will
deliver a “significant reinforcement of the euro-area
firewall.” Germany, Europe’s dominant economy, has eased its
opposition to raising the aid ceiling, which will be a topic in
Mexico City this weekend when Group of 20 finance chiefs meet.  Euro leaders point to declining bond yields in  Italy  and
Spain as evidence that investors are less fearful that the
turmoil originating in Greece, representing 2.4 percent of the
continental economy, will spill across borders.  Greece met a key condition for aid by spelling out 325
million euros in additional spending cuts, the latest round of
the measures that have provoked street protests in  Athens  as
unemployment tops 20 percent.  ‘Accident-Prone’  Still, the odds that Greece will remain encumbered by debt
were illustrated by an analysis by European and IMF experts that
highlighted what could go wrong with a country unable to grow
out of its fiscal travails by devaluing its currency. “Given
the risks, the Greek program may thus remain accident-prone,
with questions about sustainability hanging over it,” the
analysis said. Debt may rebound to 160 percent of gross domestic
product, the same level as last year, it said.  Finance chiefs’ starting point yesterday was the baseline
European-IMF estimate, which put Greek debt at 129 percent of
GDP in 2020. By lowering Greece’s bailout loan rates and
extracting more from private investors and the central banks,
they whittled that figure to 120.5 percent, a level deemed
“sustainable” by the IMF.  ‘Keep Coming Back’  “Does this alleviate the risk of imminent default?” said
Callum Henderson, global head of foreign-exchange research in
 Singapore  at Standard Chartered Plc. “Yes, but not further out.
Further out, the concerns of a default will keep coming back.”  While a euro-zone statement spoke of a “significant
contribution” from the IMF to the three-year loan package, it
was unclear whether the fund would stick to its practice of
delivering a third of the aid money.  “Significant means lots of things,” said IMF Managing
Director  Christine Lagarde , who was French finance minister when
the crisis broke. She said an IMF decision in March on its Greek
contribution will hinge on  Europe ’s progress in building a
broader firewall.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  traveled to Brussels
to lead the bargaining with the bondholders, represented by
 Charles Dallara  and  Jean Lemierre  of the  Institute of
International Finance .  That give-and-take harked back to an earlier nocturnal
episode in the crisis, when Dallara in October bowed to pressure
from leaders including German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  to
consent to a 50 percent cut in the face value of Greek
bondholdings.  ‘Unique Circumstances’  The bank representatives leave Brussels with that writeoff
up to 53.5 percent. In a statement, they said that “the
unprecedented nature of the package underpinning the consensual
resolution of debt-restructuring discussions with Greece
reflects the exceptional and unique circumstances.”  Governments agreed to earmark their share of profits from
the ECB’s crisis-driven purchases of Greek bonds at discounted
prices for the Greek package. National central banks’ future
profits from holding Greek bonds in their investment portfolios
also will be funneled into the program.  ECB President  Mario Draghi  hailed the “very good
agreement,” while declining to comment on the central-bank
profits.  “We welcome the commitment of the Greek government to
undertake the actions to restore growth and stability,” Draghi
said. “We also welcome the commitment of euro-member countries
to keep on helping Greece to come back on the path of growth and
 job creation .”  State Assets  Frustrated with Greece’s inability to meet two years of
targets for cutting the deficit and selling off state assets,
donor countries also insisted on more control over how Greece
spends the money.  A special account will be set up that gives priority to
keeping Greece solvent before releasing money for the country’s
 budget . A European Commission task force will also embed in
Greece in an “an enhanced and permanent presence on the
ground” to improve the workings of the Greek bureaucracy,
according to the statement.  “We underestimated the challenge stemming from weak
administrative capacity and also weak political unity,”
European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn
said. “Now both of these challenges are being addressed.”  Since Greece’s fiscal woes erupted in late 2009, creditor
countries and the government in Athens have sought leverage over
each other. Rich countries led by  Germany  tied aid to ever-
stricter conditions, while Greece played on Europe’s fear that a
default would destabilize the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  