-- Grubb & Ellis Agrees to Sell Most Assets to BGC in Bankruptcy Proceedings
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r   a n d   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 2012-02-21T15:13:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/grubb-ellis-agrees-to-sell-itself-to-bgc-partners-in-new-york-bankruptcy.html
Grubb & Ellis Co. (GRBE) , a U.S. real
estate services company, filed for  bankruptcy protection  and
agreed to sell almost all its assets to  BGC Partners Inc. (BGCP)   The company yesterday listed $150 million in assets and
$167 million in debt in a Chapter 11 filing in U.S. Bankruptcy
Court in  New York . The company said it completed about 12,000
sale and lease transactions last year and  manages  more than
250 million square feet of property.  “We determined that a partnership with BGC provides the
best platform for our brokerage professionals, employees and
clients,” Thomas P. D’Arcy, chief executive officer of Grubb &
Ellis, said yesterday in a statement. “We expect no disruption
to the company’s operations.”  The Santa Ana, California-based company said the downturn
in the U.S. real estate market from 2007 to 2009 caused losses
during the period that severely strained its liquidity and
hampered its ability to keep operating, according to a court
filing. Grubb & Ellis failed to find a buyer outside the
bankruptcy process, Chief Financial Officer Michael Rispoli said
in the filing.  BGC Partners, a New York-based broker of financial
products, agreed to provide a loan of as much as $4.8 million to
Grubb & Ellis to keep it operating during the bankruptcy
process, Rispoli said.  BGC Statement  “This transaction reflects the deep and unwavering
commitment” of BGC “ to build a premier position in real
estate services” and “ enable Grubb & Ellis to thrive and grow
as part of the BGC family of companies,” BGC Chairman Howard W. Lutnick said today in a statement. Lutnick also is chairman of
Cantor Fitzgerald LP and the chief executive officer of both
companies.  Among Grubb & Ellis’s largest unsecured creditors listed in
court papers was U.S. Bank N.A. Corporate Trust Services,
trustee for holders of $32.1 million in 7.95 percent convertible
senior notes due in 2015.  The company is asking a judge to set a March 9 deadline for
preliminary bids in a formal auction tentatively scheduled for
March 21.  The case is In re Grubb & Ellis Co., 1:12-bk-10685,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney
at   jschneider5@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Milford in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at   dwong19@bloomberg.net ;
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 