-- Libyan Foreign Bank Rolls Out Islamic Products as Rules Change
-- B y   B r i g i t t e   S c h e f f e r
-- 2012-02-21T15:06:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/libyan-foreign-bank-rolls-out-islamic-products-as-rules-change.html
The  Libyan Foreign Bank  will offer
Shariah-compliant products as the government prepares regulation
to make Islamic banking the norm in the North African nation
following the ouster of  Muammar Qaddafi .  “Islamic products are being introduced and will
predominate, but we will not relinquish the use of traditional
banking,” General Manager Mohamed Ben Yusef said in an
interview today in Tripoli. “A decision will be made by the
Central Bank of  Libya  by the end of March to introduce a new
article in the banking law regarding Islamic governance.”  Shariah-compliant finance may reap the benefits of regime
changes in North Africa, where protests last year toppled three
leaders who persecuted Islamists. While Muslims make up about 95
percent of North Africa’s 220 million people according to the
CIA World Factbook, access to Shariah-compliant financial
services remains limited as past leaders, including Qaddafi,
held back the industry’s growth to curb the influence of Islamic
parties.  Mustafa Abdel Jalil, the chairman of the National
Transitional Council that lead the rebellion to topple Qaddafi,
said Oct. 23 that the country’s banking industry should comply
with Islamic law, which bans interest.  Central Bank  Governor
Saddek Omar Elkaber on Nov. 24 said the government will honor
bank licenses issued during Qaddafi’s era, including one given
to  Qatar Islamic Bank (QIB)  to start the only Shariah-compliant lender
in the country.  “We are a traditional society so we are looking for
products that are ethically and morally comfortable; we think
that Islamic banking can re-energize the industry and move our
economy forward,” Ben Yusef said.  The Libyan Foreign Bank, a fully owned unit of the central
bank, is the biggest bank in Libya in terms of capital and
assets, he said. Paid capital was $3 billion and total assets
were $18 billion at the end of January.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brigitte Scheffer in Dubai at 
 bscheffer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  