-- Michelle Obama Courts Female Voters After Contraception Rule
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-02-21T15:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/michelle-obama-courts-women-voters-by-touting-free-access-to-contraception.html
Michelle Obama  is being billed as
the featured attraction in house parties her husband’s re-
election campaign is organizing around the country tomorrow to
try to boost his support among women.  The first lady is to appear via conference call at the
“Women for Obama” gatherings, President  Barack Obama ’s re-
election campaign said in an e-mail sent to supporters last
night.  Michelle Obama, serving as honorary chairwoman of Women for
Obama, will “deliver a message just for us about the progress
we’re making together and the work ahead in the months to
come,” according to the e-mail, which said that “hearing from
the First Lady is sure to get us fired up.”  The house parties are an example of the more visible role
Michelle Obama is taking in her husband’s re-election campaign.
She spoke at Democratic Party fundraisers in  Los Angeles  on Jan.
31 and Feb. 1 while in  California  for appearances on “The
Tonight Show with  Jay Leno ” and  Ellen DeGeneres ’ show to
promote her “Let’s Move” anti-obesity program.  The house parties also follow the Obama administration’s
rule to provide women who work for religion-affiliated hospitals
and universities access to free contraception through their
health insurance.  Accomplishments for Women  The e-mail mentions access to contraception without a co-
pay among the administration’s accomplishments for women, in
addition to the president’s signing of the “Lilly Ledbetter
Fair Pay Act” and the 2010 health-care overhaul that includes
mammogram coverage and a restriction on charging women higher
premiums than men.  Roman Catholic bishops and Republican lawmakers and
presidential candidates have opposed the contraception rule,
while women’s advocacy groups have embraced it.  Obama has said he didn’t intend for the rule to be used as
a wedge issue in the campaign, while NARAL Pro-Choice America,
an organization that defends abortion rights, has been airing
radio ads in the battleground states of  Colorado ,  Florida ,
 Virginia  and  Wisconsin , promoting the policy as an example of
Obama’s commitment to women.  Church Leaders’ Concerns  A Feb. 10 compromise Obama offered that would force health
insurers, and not church-affiliated charities, to pay for
contraceptives for employees of those institutions has shifted
the debate away from a religious-freedom argument that carried
more political risks for the president. Some church leaders
still have concerns because their facilities are self-insured,
which could mean they would have to pay the costs.  At the Jan. 31 fundraiser in Los Angeles, Michelle Obama
promoted expanded coverage for women in the health-care law,
without mentioning contraception coverage explicitly.  She said that in the face of efforts to repeal the broader
law, “we have to ask ourselves: Are we going to stand by and
let that happen, or are we going to stand up to those insurance
companies? Are we going to let them refuse to cover things like
cancer screenings, prenatal care; things that save money, but
more importantly, save lives?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  