-- Mild and Rainy Week Ahead for U.S. East Coast, Forecasters Say
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-21T13:33:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/mild-and-rainy-week-ahead-for-u-s-east-coast-forecasters-say.html
Mild and rainy weather is expected
to wash across the Northeast this week, which may mean less
energy is needed for heating homes and businesses.  New York ’s high temperature may reach 56 degrees Fahrenheit
(13 Celsius) tomorrow, 13 above normal, and 57 the day after,
according to the  National Weather Service  in Upton, New York.
The chance of rain will grow as the week goes on.  Temperatures in the Northeast may be 8 degrees above
normal, said  Matt Rogers , president of Commodity Weather Group
LLC in Bethesda, Maryland. For the eastern U.S. as whole,
temperatures may be 5 degrees higher than normal.  Traders watch temperature predictions and heating degree
days values to gauge energy use and demand. About 51 percent of
U.S. households use natural gas for heating, according to the
Energy Department.  The heating degree days value in the six New England states
is expected to be 189 this week, or 65 below normal and 85 lower
than a year ago, according to the  U.S. Climate Prediction Center 
in  Camp Springs , Maryland.  Degree days values are calculated by subtracting the daily
average temperature from a base of 65 degrees to show energy
demand. Higher values mean more energy being used for heating.  The forecast value in the mid-Atlantic region, which
includes New York, is 185, or 50 lower than normal and 66 below
a year ago, according to the climate center.  The high in  Washington  may reach 72 the day after tomorrow
with a slight chance of showers, the weather service said.  Chicago is expected to have light snow and rain this week.
The city’s high temperature for the week is expected to be 46
tomorrow, 6 above normal, according to the weather service in
Romeoville,  Illinois .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  