-- U.S. Limits on Government Can’t Work Everywhere: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-02-21T00:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/limits-on-government-can-t-work-everywhere-commentary-by-ramesh-ponnuru.html
Supreme Court Justice  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  has drawn criticism for saying that she would not
counsel constitution writers abroad to look to our Constitution
as a model, and for recommending instead the basic laws of  South
Africa  and  Canada .  Some of that criticism, as even conservative columnist Jeff Jacoby  has noted , has been unfair, failing to note that Ginsburg
also praised aspects of our constitutional order.  Many of Ginsburg’s critics were also dismayed by a New York
Times  article  reporting, on the basis of a  recent study , that
constitution makers around the world are indeed looking at
models besides our own. “The Constitution has seen better days,”
it began.  The premise seems to be that the better our constitutional
design, the more we should expect other countries to seek to
emulate it. But this premise is clearly mistaken. Other
countries may have rational reasons not to adopt our
Constitution that do not reflect badly on its design. Political
elites in other countries may not want to live within the limits
that the U.S. model imposes. Other countries may also lack the
conditions that allow our Constitution to work.  Limiting Federal Power  Although the drafters and ratifiers of the U.S.
Constitution sought a stronger central government than the
Articles of Confederation had allowed, they also viewed
government power with much more skepticism than most
constitution makers in other societies have done. The
Constitution they adopted constrains the federal government by
granting it limited powers and subjecting proposals for its
expansion to multiple vetoes. It also, as Michael Greve points
out in his important new book “ The Upside-Down Constitution ,”
places state governments in competition with one another,
limiting their power. Not all peoples will favor such tight
constraints, still less their political elites.  Even friends of the Constitution can acknowledge that it
will not work in all societies in all times. In the same passage
in which he described it as “the most perfect constitution that
ever existed,” Alexis de Tocqueville  said  of the “federal
system” it created that “its benefits cannot be enjoyed by all
nations.” Smaller nations, for example, may not have need of a
federal structure. In an  essay  on the international influence of
the Constitution and the Federalist Papers, Duke University law
professor Donald Horowitz notes that many ethnically divided
countries have avoided federalism for fear it would promote
separatism.  The U.S. Constitution also presupposes cultural traits that
are not found everywhere. The more a constitution limits a
government, the more a society needs to rely on voluntary
associations to solve or manage problems. Those associations are
easier to form in high-trust societies than in places where
nobody trusts anyone outside the extended family.  Social trust also enables constitutional brevity. Our
Constitution leaves most policy outcomes to the political
processes it creates. A society where sizable groups fear they
could lose big in these processes might want a constitution that
reduces their risks by including specific policy commitments.  Perhaps the most important precondition is a culture
committed to the ideals the Constitution embodies. Our
Constitution would not work in a society that values security
and equality more, and freedom less, than we have historically
done. Ginsburg herself raised this point in her controversial
interview: “A constitution, as important as it is, will mean
nothing unless the people are yearning for liberty and freedom.
If the people don’t care, then the best constitution won’t make
any difference.”  In his essay, Horowitz illustrates the point when he
discusses countries that copied our constitutional arrangements
in the 19th century: “The Electoral College even survived long
periods of dictatorship, in  Brazil , for instance.”  Smaller Government Preferred  According to the New York Times story, one way many
contemporary constitution writers are departing from our
tradition is by providing explicit protection for many more
judicially enforceable rights than we do, including the
“entitlement to food, education and health care.” That our
Constitution is “parsimonious” with such rights, as the Times
puts it, is not necessarily a defect: It reflects our preference
for smaller government and for legislative rather than judicial
policy making. The more political decisions a constitution gives
over to the judiciary, the more those decisions are likely to
reflect the preferences of a political and legal elite rather
than those of the populace.  The vogue for judicially enforceable rights is a phenomenon
of recent decades. The Times notes that the average constitution
lasts 19 years. Ours has, of course, lasted much longer. Before
we conclude that it is hopelessly outmoded, let’s wait to see
how well other countries’ entitlement-heavy constitutions do at
providing political stability.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 