-- Indian Bond Yields Drop to 2-Week Low on Reserve-Cut Speculation
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-02-21T12:55:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/indian-bond-yields-drop-to-2-week-low-on-reserve-cut-speculation.html
India ’s 10-year bonds rose, pushing
yields to the lowest level in more than two weeks, as the
central bank signaled it will take additional steps to ease a
cash squeeze in the financial system.  The  Reserve Bank of India  will consider increasing its
open-market debt purchases and lowering lenders’  reserve
requirements  to release funds if necessary, Deputy Governor
Subir Gokarn said in Mumbai today. Banks borrowed an  average  1.3
trillion rupees ($26.4 billion) a day from the monetary
authority this quarter to meet cash shortages, compared with 882
billion rupees in the prior period, central bank data show.  “Given the tight liquidity, a cut in reserve requirements
looks possible anytime now,” said R.S. Chauhan, chief dealer of
treasury at  State Bank  of Bikaner & Jaipur. “The RBI may also
announce more debt purchases to boost cash.”  The yield on the 8.79 percent notes due November 2021 fell
one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 8.17 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. That is
the lowest level since Feb. 3. Financial markets in India were
shut yesterday for a public holiday.  The Reserve Bank has bought 906 billion rupees of sovereign
debt since the start of November via open-market auctions,
central bank data show.  “Open-market operations remain an option as we go along
and to the extent the opportunity is available for a cash
reserve-ratio cut, we will also consider that,” Gokarn told
reporters today.  The  Reserve Bank  reduced the amount of deposits lenders
need to set aside as reserves to 5.5 percent from 6 percent on
Jan. 24, the first cut since 2009.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs,
fell two basis points to 8.07 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  -With assistance from Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai. Editors:  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  