-- India May Spend $1 Billion to Map Aquifers, Avert Water Crisis
-- B y   A r c h a n a   C h a u d h a r y
-- 2012-02-21T06:27:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/india-may-spend-1-billion-to-map-aquifers.html
India  may spend as much as 50
billion rupees ($1 billion) in the next five years to map
underground water as indiscriminate sinking of wells by farmers
depletes resources in the world’s second-most populous nation.  The government’s goal is to avert a water crisis in the
South Asian country, where agriculture accounts for 20 percent
of the $1.7 trillion economy, Mihir Shah, a member of the
Planning Commission that sets five-year targets for economic
growth, said in an interview in New Delhi.  “Now people have begun to feel the pinch,” said Shah.
“Competitive drilling for water has led to the destruction of
our groundwater tables. This has happened because we don’t know
what lies below the ground.”  Mapping of aquifers, or large underground reservoirs, is
expected to help India manage cropping patterns and ensure
drinking water for its growing population. More than 85 percent
India’s villages and half of its cities rely on wells for water.
Farming accounts for about 90 percent of total water withdrawals
in India, with the irrigated acreage almost tripling since 1950.  Agricultural output is key to Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s target of raising economic expansion to more than 10
percent in the next decade to cut poverty. Annual growth may
slow to 6.9 percent in the 12 months to March, the least since
2009, the government said on Feb. 7.  Phased Audit  The Planning Commission’s  working group  on water has sought
100 billion rupees to help audit all of India’s groundwater
resources in phases through various federal funding programs.
The first phase of mapping will begin this year and will be
completed in India’s 12th five-year spending plan through March
2017, Shah said.  India lost 109 cubic kilometers of groundwater, supplies
equal to more than twice the capacity of  Lake Mead , the biggest
U.S. reservoir, because of indiscriminate use between 2002-2008,
according to a study by the U.S. National Aeronautical and Space
Agency.  About a fifth of water used globally comes from under the
ground, according to the  Stockholm International Water Institute .
Withdrawals are predicted to increase  50 percent  by 2025 in
 developing countries , and 18 percent in developed countries,
according to the policy group based in the Swedish capital.  India’s government established a  Central Ground Water
Authority  in 1986 to regulate pumping from aquifers. Groundwater
hasn’t been developed evenly across India, and exploitation has
led to a drop in water levels and seawater intrusion in some
areas, according to the Ministry of Water Resources. Of the
 5,723 sites  assessed, 839 are “over-exploited,” 226 are
“critical” and 550 are “semi-critical,” it said.  Some aquifers in central India that took 10,000 years to
accumulate water have dried up in the past 30 years, according
to Shah. “We don’t want to reach that situation everywhere,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Archana Chaudhary in  New Delhi  at 
 achaudhary2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sam Nagarajan at 
 samnagarajan@bloomberg.net  