-- Transocean Employee Hurt in BP Blast Asks for Separate Trial
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-21T22:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/injured-bp-spill-supervisor-wants-out-of-new-orleans-trial.html
Buddy Trahan, a  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  rig
supervisor who barely survived the  BP Plc (BP/)  Deepwater Horizon rig
disaster, asked a federal judge to free his stalled personal-
injury lawsuit from the oil-spill litigation set for trial in
 New Orleans  on Feb. 27.  “Like a beleaguered passenger who fruitlessly waits for a
streetcar that will not come, Buddy Trahan has waited and waited
and waited some more” for his case to be returned to state
court or set for trial in the New Orleans federal court, Lance
Lubel, Trahan’s lawyer, said today in court papers. “In sheer
exhaustion from his torturous ordeal, he respectfully -- but
stridently -- requests that the court reopen the only avenue of
escape and grant him the ride he needs and deserves.”  Trahan is one of about a dozen Transocean employees who
haven’t settled death and injury claims resulting from the  Gulf
of Mexico  rig explosion that killed 11 workers, according to
lawyers representing the employees.  His suit against BP shouldn’t have been caught up in the
other spill litigation and should be sent to a Texas court for a
speedy trial, according to the filing in the court of U.S.
District Judge  Carl Barbier .  The judge hasn’t ruled on earlier similar requests by
Trahan and families of other workers injured and killed on the
rig. They are trying to untangle their cases from the thousands
of economic-injury claims consolidated for pretrial processing.  Injury Cases Later  Barbier has said he’ll address Deepwater Horizon injury and
death claims at some point after the spill trial set to begin
next week. The nonjury trial is to determine the relative fault
of BP, Transocean and other contractors in the offshore project.  “I keep getting shuffled to the bottom of the pile,”
Trahan said Feb. 18 in an interview. “They need to take me out
of the bottom of the pile and let me have my day in court. It
won’t make things right, but it’ll let me turn this chapter.”  Trahan, 44, oversaw rig equipment, maintenance and long-
term repairs for six Transocean deep-water rigs in the Gulf
before the April 20, 2010, explosion that caused the worst
offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history.  Trahan, one of four Transocean and BP senior executives on
a VIP visit to the Deepwater Horizon the day of the blast, may
be the most seriously injured survivor.  The first explosion hurled Trahan 30 feet through a wall,
burning most of the clothes off his back in an instant, he said.
With both legs broken, his neck pierced by flying metal and his
left knee shattered, Trahan said, he almost bled to death.  Fellow Workers’ Help  Fellow workers dug him from the rubble and shoved him onto
a stretcher into one of the rig’s two lifeboats. As he drifted
in and out of consciousness, he said, people repeatedly roused
him and urged him to stay alive in spite of what he called
“blackout pain.”  Since then, Trahan has endured nine surgical operations,
including one to replace 13 metal pins and plates in his knee
after an infection. He has had to relearn to walk several times,
and relaxation eludes him, he said.  “You can’t turn on the TV and not see explosions,
sirens,” he said. “I can’t get away from it.”  Both eardrums burst in the explosion. He constantly hears
what sounds like radio static.  “Even when I just want peace and quiet, I can never get
that,” he said.  With sleep come nightmares. Trahan said he relives being on
the blazing rig, strapped to the stretcher and momentarily
abandoned while rescuers help another injured worker.  ‘Alone Again’  “I’m all alone again, and there’s this monstrous fire, and
I can’t even crawl away from it because I’m strapped to this
stretcher,” Trahan said. “And I’m knowing that my friends are
in that fire.”  Transocean, which isn’t named in Trahan’s lawsuit,
continues to pay his salary and medical bills, which he
estimates at almost $2 million so far. BP has never apologized
for his injuries or discussed his claim, he said.  “I see BP signs everywhere I go,” the lifelong oil
industry worker said. BP’s advertisements proclaiming the
company will do whatever it takes to “make things right” ring
hollow for him.  “I want to see the people who made those decisions
punished like I’m punished, and that’s never going to happen,”
he said.  Scott Dean  and Daren Beaudo, BP spokesmen; and Ellen
Moskowitz, a company spokeswoman, didn’t immediately respond to
telephone and e-mail messages seeking comment on Trahan’s case.  “I feel betrayed, robbed, ashamed that I’m not strong
enough to overcome this,” Trahan said. “I’ve lost my security.
I don’t know who I am and what I’m going to do now. They can
never make me whole.”  The spill case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, 2:10-md-02179,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  (New
Orleans).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 