-- Turkish Lira Weakens the Most in a Week on Lending Rates Cut
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-02-21T16:00:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/lira-heads-for-biggest-drop-this-year-as-yields-fall-on-interest-rate-cut.html
The lira weakens the most in more
than a week and yields sank for a third day after  Turkey ’s
central bank unexpectedly cut its highest lending rates by one
percentage point.  The lira depreciated 0.4 percent to 1.7491 per dollar at
5:57 p.m. in Istanbul, heading for the biggest drop since Feb.
10.  Yields (BENCH)  on two-year benchmark bonds slipped to the lowest
since Oct. 19, down 14 basis points, or 0.14 percentage point,
to 9 percent, according to the Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS index.  The  central bank  cut the maximum  interest rate  at which it
lends to banks overnight to 11.5 percent from 12.5 percent,
saying it was taking into account monetary easing in other
economies. The bank in Ankara also reduced the 12 percent repo
rate for market making to 11 percent, while leaving the lower
limit of its so-called rates corridor  unchanged  at 5.75 percent,
according to an e-mailed statement today after a meeting of the
Monetary Policy Committee.  “The unexpected cut weighs on the lira as the market
interprets it as a sign of relaxation of the monetary policy,” Murat Toprak , chief currency strategist for  Europe , the Middle
East and  Africa  at HSBC Holdings Plc in  London , said in e-mailed
comments.  Governor Erdem Basci introduced the corridor in October,
allowing him to vary rates on a daily basis. Since mid-January
he has made more funding available at the lowest end of this
band even as inflation surged to a three-year high. The cheaper
money supports the government in keeping the economy growing
amid a slowdown in Europe, Turkey’s main export destination.  “The central bank’s current strategy, even with a 100
basis point narrower corridor, still gives it significant room
to maneuver and the bank is likely to keep this flexibility
until inflation slows and the credibility gap narrows,”  Tevfik Aksoy , the London-based chief economist for Central and Eastern
Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa at Morgan Stanley & Co.,
said.  The lira sank 18 percent last year in the worst performance
worldwide and hit a record low of 1.9224 per dollar on Dec. 28
and yields soared 390 basis points in the biggest rise in three
years as investors reduced positions in Turkey on account of its
large current-account deficit.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  