-- Iran Said to Offer India Extra Oil Supplies Amid Europe Cut
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   P r a t i s h   N a r a y a n a n
-- 2012-02-21T15:19:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/iran-said-to-offer-india-additional-crude-oil-shipments-on-revised-terms.html
Iran  offered India extra crude
supplies on revised terms as international sanctions tighten the
Middle East producer’s circle of oil customers, according to
three people with knowledge of the talks.  Indian refiners have yet to decide on whether they will
take up Iran’s offer of additional shipments, the people said,
declining to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak with the media. The South Asian nation’s government is
open to increasing oil imports from the Persian Gulf state,
according to two of the people.  The people declined to give details on the terms offered by
Iran. They may not necessarily involve lower prices, and could
include more flexibility in the grades offered and loading
dates, and an increase in the number of days of credit before
 India  is required to pay, one of the people said. Iran hasn’t
offered India a discount for its crude, one of the people said.  “Make no mistake, the party that’s getting hammered left,
right and center at the moment is Iran,” said  Praveen Kumar , an
analyst at Facts Global Energy in  Singapore . “They are sitting
on about 400,000 barrels a day of excess crude, and it’s fair to
say the Asian buyers have the upper hand at the moment.”  Iran’s offer to India follows a suspension of oil exports
by the Persian Gulf nation to French and British buyers and the
growing risk of losing market share to  Saudi Arabia , the largest
producer in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.  ‘Being Clever’  The European Union and U.S. have imposed sanctions to
protest  Iran’s nuclear program , restricting trade and financial
transactions. The U.S. and its allies say they suspect the
program is a cover for developing atomic weapons, a charge Iran
has repeatedly denied, maintaining it is for civilian purposes.  “Iran is being clever,” Kumar said. “It has cut supplies
to  Europe  earlier than big buyers there expected and is now
turning to its Asian customers. But still, even if India and
 China  take up some extra supplies, Iran is still going to be
left with some crude.”  Iran won’t cede its “right” to peaceful atomic energy and
has mastered the full nuclear-fuel cycle, Foreign Ministry
spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said today. A team of officials
from the  International Atomic Energy Agency , the United Nations
nuclear watchdog, arrived in Tehran yesterday for two days of
meetings that provide an opportunity to defuse allegations of a
military aspect to the country’s nuclear program.  Japan-China  Refiners in  Japan  are holding off from signing oil-supply
contracts from Iran, four people with knowledge of the talks
said today, while China International United Petroleum &
Chemical Co. agreed to most terms of a 2012 deal with the
Islamic republic, according to three other people.  India hasn’t asked the nation’s refiners to cut crude
purchases from Iran, an official at the nation’s oil ministry
said today. India isn’t facing any immediate issues in paying
Iran, the official said, declining to be identified because the
information is confidential.  India and Iran have struggled to preserve $9.5 billion in
annual crude trade after the  Reserve Bank  of India dismantled a
mechanism used to settle payments in euros and dollars in
December 2010. Transactions are currently routed through  Turkiye
Halk Bankasi AS (HALKB) , based in Ankara, which has told Indian refiners
it may no longer be able to act as an intermediary, four people
with knowledge of the matter said Jan. 10.  Conduit for Payments  Refiners are wary of increasing oil imports from Iran while
talks on finding a conduit for payments are continuing, two of
the people said today. Options being considered are a barter of
oil for commodities and other products from India in
transactions through an account in state-run UCO Bank, an
increase of investment in Iranian infrastructure projects, as
well as the use of a Russian bank for routing funds.  Payments are still continuing through  Turkey ’s Halk Bank
and none of the alternate options have been finalized amid the
escalating international pressure, two of the people said today.
While Indian refiners plan to renew term contracts with Iran for
the year starting April 1, continued difficulties related to
payments may stall Iranian efforts to sell extra supplies, one
of the people said today.  Saudi Arabia will increase crude exports to some Indian
refiners as they seek to diversify supplies, four people with
knowledge of the plans said Nov. 15. Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the
country’s state-run producer, told refiners in India it can
replace some of the Iranian crude, two people with knowledge of
the matter said July 12.  Stable Supply  Saudi Arabia is ready to boost supply to other nations as
well. The country is prepared to help  South Korea  secure
“stable” crude oil supplies if the Asian country’s imports are
disrupted by an embargo on Iran, the kingdom’s Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said in a meeting with South Korean President  Lee Myung Bak  in  Riyadh  on Feb. 7. It can meet any future requests and
extra demand from South Korea for oil purchases, he said.  While India has proposed paying for oil in rupees, Iranian
officials have sought partial payment in yen because they’re
concerned that they may not get sufficient value from the
currency, which isn’t fully convertible, three people with
knowledge of the talks said Jan. 23.  Iran is concerned that India’s entire oil bill can’t be
paid through exports to Iran, the people had said. Iran’s
imports from India are worth about $2.5 billion a year, while
its annual crude sales to the South Asian nation are valued at
about $9.5 billion, they said.  India opposes sanctions on Iran from anyone other than the
 United Nations , Ranjan Mathai, India’s foreign secretary, said
Jan. 17. India continues to buy Iranian oil, he said.  The Indian government plans to take a delegation of
engineering companies to Iran to explore opportunities for
exports to the country, the Financial Chronicle newspaper
reported Feb. 6. The exports would be in industries such as
power, railways and infrastructure that aren’t under sanctions,
Aman Chadha, chairman of the Engineering Export Promotion
Council of India, told the newspaper.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Pratish Narayanan in Mumbai at 
 pnarayanan9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  