-- Iran Vows to Press On With Its Atomic Program as IAEA Visits
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-02-21T17:02:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/iran-vows-to-press-on-with-its-atomic-program-as-iaea-visits-2-.html
Iran  pledged to press on with its
efforts to develop atomic energy as the United Nations nuclear
watchdog started a second day of meetings in Tehran to clarify
aspects of the country’s activities.  Iran has mastered the full nuclear-fuel cycle and the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  supervises its work,  Ramin Mehmanparast , a Foreign Ministry spokesman, told reporters in
Tehran today. Iran is exercising its “right to peaceful nuclear
energy,” he said in comments aired live by the state-run Press
TV news channel. “There is nothing to negotiate.”  A team of IAEA officials arrived in Tehran yesterday for
two days of meetings that provide an opportunity to defuse
allegations of a possible military aspect to the country’s
nuclear program. The delegation is in Iran for talks, not
inspections, Mehmanparast said.  The conflict over Iran’s nuclear work has driven  oil prices 
higher.  Israel  and the U.S. have refused to rule out military
action against Iranian nuclear sites to prevent the country from
acquiring a weapon. As a signatory to the nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty, Iran says it has the right to enrich
uranium on its soil and maintains it wants atomic power to
produce electricity for its growing population.  Iran would consider taking pre-emptive action in response
to threats, an Iranian military commander said today, according
to the state-run Fars news agency.  Pre-Emptive Action  “We will no more wait to see enemy action against us,”
Fars cited Mohammad Hejazi, deputy head of the General Staff of
the Iranian Armed Forces for Logistic and Industrial Research,
as saying in an interview.  Iran’s new strategy is to “make use of all our means to
protect our national interests and hit a retaliatory blow at
them whenever we feel that enemies want to endanger our national
interests,” Hejazi said, according to Fars.  The enrichment program is at the heart of the dispute over
Iran’s nuclear capabilities because, while enriched uranium can
be used as fuel, at higher concentrations it can form the core
of a bomb.  “We hope to have some concrete results after this trip,”
the IAEA’s top inspector, Herman Nackaerts, said on Feb. 19 at
Vienna Airport. “The highest priority remains, of course, the
possible military dimensions of  Iran’s nuclear program , and we
want to tackle all outstanding issues.”  ‘Credible’ Intelligence  While the IAEA says Iran hasn’t used its declared uranium
stockpile to make weapons, it said in a November report it had
“credible” intelligence showing that Iran worked on components
needed for a nuclear weapon until 2010.  Robert Kelley , a U.S.
nuclear-weapons scientist and former IAEA inspector, wrote on
Jan. 11 that some of the evidence may be forged, backing a claim
by Iran.  The Vienna-based agency has sought access to Iran’s Parchin
military base and Lavisan physics center as well as to
centrifuge workshops and uranium mines. All of Iran’s declared
nuclear material is under IAEA seal, monitored by cameras and
subject to regular inspection.  The agency said in the November report that Iran allegedly
tested explosives designed for its Shahab-3 missile warhead in
Marivan in 2003. Uranium traces could still be found if used in
the experiments, according to Kelley and Arms Control
Association Director Daryl Kimball.  “Iran should allow the IAEA to go to Marivan and take
samples at the site where Iran supposedly did their full-scale
high-explosive tests,” said Kelley, who helped debunk forged
intelligence before the 2003  Iraq War . “The agency needs to put
Marivan first because it is the sleeping dog in the last
report.”  ‘Intensive Discussions’  The IAEA team last visited Iran in a three-day trip that
ended Jan. 31, with Nackaerts saying “intensive discussions”
were held with Iranian authorities and further meetings were
needed.  Speaking in  Jerusalem  today, U.S. Senator  John McCain  said
it appears there is “significant tension” between the U.S. and
Israel over how to deal with Iran’s nuclear program, and such
differences “are not helpful.”  McCain, speaking at a press conference after meeting with
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu , said Israel is a
sovereign state that can best determine the threats against it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  