-- Israel Tycoons Face Regulations Reducing Company Pyramids to Three Levels
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l   a n d   A l i s a   O d e n h e i m e r
-- 2012-02-22T13:04:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/israel-tycoons-said-to-face-rules-cutting-company-pyramids-to-three-levels.html
Israeli companies, such as  Delek
Group Ltd. (DLEKG)  and  IDB Holding Corporation Ltd. (IDBH) , will need to
simplify corporate structures after a government committee
called for reducing debt risk and boosting transparency.  The committee on economic concentration recommended today
that companies limit their pyramid structure to no more than
three public layers and proposed a four-year deadline for
corporations to comply with the new rules. In addition, they
will need to reduce cross-holdings in financial and industrial
businesses. The recommendations now go to the Cabinet for
approval.  “This report is not intended as an attack on the private
sector,” Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer said at a
Jerusalem press conference with Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Finance Minister Yuval Steinitz. “We rely on the
private sector, while making sure it works efficiently without
exerting undue influence on the business sector.”  If implemented, companies including billionaire Isaac Tshuva’s Delek Group, Nochi Dankner’s IDB Holding and the Ofer
family’s  Israel Corp. (ILCO)  will have to sell assets and merge
business activities. Some 20 families control 25 percent of the
listed companies and 50 percent of the total market share in the
 Tel Aviv Stock Exchange (TA-25) , one of the highest concentrations among
developed economies, the Bank of Israel said in its 2009 annual
report.  Minority Shareholders  “The recommendations will lower the risk of highly-
leveraged companies and reduce their power in the economy while
strengthening the influence of minority shareholders,” said
Noam Pincu, real estate and holding companies analyst at Psagot
Investment House Ltd. in  Tel Aviv . “The new rules will force
companies like IDB to sell their financial businesses and Delek
to sell their insurance business.”  Discount Investment ended negotiations in November to sell
Shufersal Ltd.,  Israel ’s largest grocery chain, to  Isralom
Properties Ltd. (ILOM)  and  England ’s Noe family after they were unable
to meet possible government requirements endorsed by the
concentration committee.  Shares of IDB Holding, which controls the country’s biggest
mobile-phone operator Cellcom Israel Ltd. through Discount
Investment, have  lost  68 percent in the past 12 months. The
benchmark  Tel Aviv-25 index  has declined 15 percent.  “The divestments of companies will bring dynamism and
change of ownership thereby increasing competition in the
economy, and reduce prices,” said Glenn Yago, senior director
at the  Milken Institute , a U.S. economic think tank.  Mass Protests  Hundreds of thousands of protesters demonstrated in Israel
last year calling for more affordable housing and lower prices
for food and other consumer products. Netanyahu said today that
the high level of concentration in the economy stymies
competition. In response to the protests, he appointed a
committee led by economist  Manuel Trajtenberg , which recommended
a series of measures.  In December, Israel’s Cabinet voted to exempt Internet
purchases of goods for personal use from  customs duties  as part
of the package of measures aimed at reducing the cost of living.  Tshuva’s Delek Group, which owns the country’s fourth-
largest insurer  Phoenix Holdings Ltd. (PHOE1)  and has stakes in natural
gas businesses and in debt-ridden  Delek Real Estate Ltd. (DLKR) , has
dropped 16 percent in the past 12 months. Only 6 percent of the
companies listed on the Tel Aviv benchmark index are more
leveraged than Delek, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “This process of industrial reorganization may lift the
number of companies listed on the Tel Aviv bourse, increase
liquidity and boost foreign investment as a result of greater
transparency,” said Milken’s Yago.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net 
To contact the reporter on this story:
Alisa Odenheimer in Jerusalem at 
 aodenheimer@bloomberg.net  