-- Israel Bond Yields Rise to 2-Month High as Rates Seen on Hold
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-02-21T13:34:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/israel-bond-yields-rise-to-2-month-high-as-rates-seen-on-hold.html
Israel ’s benchmark bonds fell,
pushing yields to the highest level in more than two months, on
bets  Greece ’s deal to secure a second bailout may lead the
central bank to hold borrowing costs next week.  The yield on the 5.5 percent notes due January 2022 rose
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 4.64 percent,
the highest since Dec. 15 at 12:31 p.m. in  Tel Aviv .  One-year
interest-rate (ISSW1)  swaps, an indicator of investor expectations for
the benchmark rate in the next 12 months, jumped five basis
points to 2.51 percent, matching the level on Dec. 12.  Greece won a second bailout after European governments
wrung concessions from private investors and tapped into
European Central Bank profits to shield the euro area from a
precedent-setting default. Exports make up about 40 percent of
the Israeli economy and  Europe  is one of the largest markets.
The Bank of Israel will hold the benchmark interest rate at 2.5
percent at a policy meeting Feb. 27, according to all 20
analysts in a Bloomberg  survey .  “The central bank is likely to save its ammunition next
week so it can respond to future economic developments,” Modi Shafrir, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd.,
said by phone. “Despite a moderation in economic activity, the
fact that the liquidity problem in Europe has eased and the
possible renewed inflationary pressure give support for  interest
rates  to hold at the current level.”  Interest Rates  Consumer prices climbed an annual 2 percent in January
compared with a median estimate of 1.9 percent. Inflation is
expected to be 2.4 percent in the next 12 months, according to a
survey of economists released by the  Bank of Israel  on Feb. 19.
Inflation erodes the value of fixed-income payments.  Bank of Israel Governor  Stanley Fischer  said Feb. 2 the
country has “plenty of room” to lower interest rates if
needed. It cut the benchmark rate by a quarter-point last month
to 2.5 percent, the third reduction in five months. Borrowing
costs may fall as much as 25 basis points in coming months,
Shafrir said.  The one-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate government notes of
similar maturity, rose one basis point to 257, implying an
average annual inflation rate of 2.57 percent. The rate has
increased 28 basis points since consumer price moves were
announced on Feb. 15.  The central bank and the  Finance Ministry  have reduced
their growth predictions for this year, citing the impact of the
European debt crisis. The economy expanded an annualized 3.2
percent in the fourth quarter compared with a revised 3.8
percent in the third quarter as exports and private consumption
declined, the statistics bureau said Feb. 16.  The  Tel-Bond 40 Index (TEL-B40)  of corporate bonds gained less than
0.1 percent to 263.81. The shekel fell 0.3 percent to 3.7345 a
dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  