-- J&J Names Alex Gorsky CEO to Replace William Weldon
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2012-02-22T21:17:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/j-j-names-gorsky-ceo-as-health-care-company-seeks-to-rebound-from-recalls.html
Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ’s insider pick of
Alex Gorsky as the new chief executive officer elevates the
person most familiar with the safety and quality issues that
have plagued the company.  Gorsky, 51, a former army captain and endurance athlete,
now leads the devices and supply-chain units. He will be seen by
investors as a force for stability at a time when J&J’s image
has been tarnished by recalls of artificial hip implants and
over-the-counter drugs, and safety concerns involving vaginal
mesh products that have spurred thousands of lawsuits.  “We do not anticipate significant changes in J&J’s
strategic direction under his leadership,” Lawrence Biegelsen,
an analyst at Wells Fargo Securities in New York, wrote in a
research note after the move was announced.  Gorsky, who has spent all but four of the last 24 years at
J&J, succeeds outgoing CEO William C. Weldon, 63, who will stay
on as chairman. J&J was almost certain to go with an internal
candidate after Weldon set up a succession race in 2010 between
Gorsky and another top executive, Sheri S. McCoy, 53, the leader
of the company’s branded-drug units.  The executives weren’t available for interviews,  William Price , a J&J spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Difficult Month  The change comes during a difficult month for J&J, the
world’s second-biggest seller of health-care products.  On Feb. 13, the  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based company was
knocked from one of the top two spots in Harris Interactive’s
annual consumer poll of corporate images for the first time in
13 years, falling to seventh. On Feb. 17, the drugmaker said it
was recalling more than half-million bottles of infants’
Tylenol, because of complaints with the dosing system.  J&J fell less than a percent to $65 at 4 p.m. New York
time. The stock has gained 7.2 percent in the past 12 months,
which ranks  eighth  of the 12 companies in the Standard & Poor’s
500 Pharmaceutical Index.  The recall was the latest of hundreds of millions of
packets of Tylenol, Motrin, Benadryl and other products pulled
due to foul odors, adulterated ingredients and bad labeling over
two years, part of drumbeat of revelations that have undermined
the company’s reputation for quality and safety.  “Gorsky is a conservative choice and the strongest
internal candidate,” said  Erik Gordon , a business professor at
the  University of Michigan , in  Ann Arbor . “That’s a big deal at
a company that always taps an insider as its next CEO -- even if
what they need is someone from outside the team that led the
company into so much trouble.”  Ninth Leader  Gorsky, a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy at  West
Point , will take over April 26 at the company’s annual meeting
as only the ninth  leader  in J&J’s 126-year history, the company
said yesterday in a statement. In an October 2011 speech to
fellow military veterans in  Chicago , Gorsky offered lessons on
making business decisions that he said he learned during his
career.  “You don’t have to get it 100 percent right,” Gorsky said
in a talk  posted online  by MBA Veterans, which hosted the
conference. “When you get it 60 percent, go! Any more time that
you spend trying to figure it out, you’re going to lose in the
speed that you’re missing out on.”  Gorsky also described himself as someone who leads by
listening before he talks.  “That allows you to collect much more meaningful input and
ultimately make the right call,” he said in an online video
discussing his education experiences at the  University of
Pennsylvania ’s Wharton School of Business in Philadelphia, where
he received his MBA in 1996.  Device Lawsuits  J&J, maker of everything from Band-Aids to cancer drugs,
generated $65 billion in 2011 sales. While Gorsky takes over a
company that has seen a revival in its drug business, the device
unit he ran faces lawsuits over the recalled artificial hips and
vaginal mesh implants.  “It’s been a challenging time for devices, but not through
any of Alex’s doing,” said  Rick Wise , a Leerink Swann & Co.
analyst in  New York , by telephone. Gorsky is “a thoughtful,
disciplined, capable guy” who should steer J&J well, he said.  J&J’s DePuy unit faces more than 4,500 lawsuits over its
ASR hips, which the company recalled in August 2010. At the
time, The company recalled 93,000 hips worldwide, including
37,000 in the U.S., saying that more than 12 percent failed
within five years.  Lawyer’s Response  One lawyer suing the company, Michael A. Kelly, said he was
“shocked” that J&J elevated Gorsky.  “It’s clear that the medical device division was not being
well supervised, managed or run, certainly from 2006 through
2010, when the entire ASR debacle was going forward,” said
Kelly, of Walkup, Melodia, Kelly & Schoenberger in  San
Francisco .  “I would think somebody would say: At what cost are we
making the profits and what message does it send that we promote
the person who was in charge of this division to an even higher
job, given the way that the entire ASR issue was handled,”
Kelly said.  Gorsky, a former marathon runner, joined J&J’s Janssen
Pharmaceutica unit in 1988 as a sales representative, according
to a company  biography . He then left the company in 2004 to join
Basel, Switzerland-based  Novartis AG (NVS) , where he headed North
American pharmaceuticals.  $1.2 Million Pay  Four years later, he returned to J&J, and he was named
global chairman of the devices and diagnostics groups in 2009.
He’ll be paid $1.2 million as CEO, the company said in a filing.  Weldon, in an e-mailed statement, described Gorsky as “an
experienced, visionary and disciplined leader with more than 20
years of increased and broad-based responsibilities over two
separate periods of employment with Johnson & Johnson.”  Jeff Jonas , an analyst with Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York,
called Gorsky “the natural choice. I don’t think there’s going
to be a huge change; he’s been involved in a lot of their recent
decisions anyway,” he said in a telephone interview.  Since Weldon took over as CEO on April 15, 2002, the shares
have increased an annual 2.8 percent, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. During his tenure, Weldon pulled off the two
biggest deals in company history: the $16.6 billion purchase of
Pfizer’s consumer products in 2006 and last year’s agreement to
buy orthopedics maker Synthes Inc. for $21.3 billion. The latter
is pending regulatory reviews.  J&J  sales  may increase to $66.4 billion this year,
Biegelsen, the Wells Fargo analyst, predicted in a Jan. 25 note
to clients. That includes $26.2 billion in device revenue, $25
billion from the drug unit and $15.2 billion from the consumer
division. New York-based  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  is the world’s biggest
seller of medical products.  McCoy, Gorsky’s competitor for the top spot, will continue
in her role as head of the pharmaceutical and consumer group,
J&J said yesterday in its statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Langreth in New York at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  