-- Japan Refiners Said to Stall on Iran Crude Deals Amid U.S. Sanctions Talks
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i   a n d   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2012-02-21T13:11:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/japan-refiners-said-to-stall-on-iran-crude-oil-agreements-amid-u-s-talks.html
Refiners in  Japan  are holding off
from signing oil-supply contracts from  Iran , four people with
knowledge of the talks said, while China International United
Petroleum & Chemical Co. agreed to most terms of a 2012 deal
with the Islamic republic, according to three other people.  At least three Japanese refiners that buy crude from the
Persian Gulf nation haven’t renewed annual contracts with
National Iranian Oil Co., pending direction from the government,
according to the people, who declined to be identified because
the information is confidential. The contracts are for more than
100,000 barrels a day of crude, about a third of Japan’s imports
from Iran, according to data supplied by the people.  The talks underline the contrasting way in which Asian
countries, among the largest importers of crude, are managing the
need to secure supplies against a backdrop of tightened U.S. and
European Union sanctions on OPEC’s second-biggest producer. The
measures have strengthened the bargaining position of  China ,
which buys about a fifth of Iran’s crude exports, the
 International Energy Agency  said Feb. 10. Refiners in India are
studying an Iranian offer to accept extra shipments on revised
terms, three people familiar with the matter said today.  “Make no mistake, the party that’s getting hammered left,
right and center at the moment is Iran,” said  Praveen Kumar , an
analyst at Facts Global Energy in  Singapore . “They are sitting
on about 400,000 barrels a day of excess crude, and it’s fair to
say the Asian buyers have the upper hand at the moment.”  Seeking Exemption  Japan, the world’s second-biggest buyer of Iran’s crude
after China, is seeking an exemption to a U.S. law that would
punish banks that do business with Iran. The law, aimed at
reducing Iran’s oil sales, will sanction any country’s financial
institutions that do business with Iran’s central bank unless
it’s determined that country has made “significant reductions”
in Iranian oil imports.  Japan will propose cutting  crude purchases  from Iran by at
least 11 percent annually from this year, according to a
Japanese government official who declined to be named because
the talks are continuing. The government has yet to reach an
agreement and is still negotiating with the U.S., Foreign
Minister  Koichiro Gemba  said today.  The refiners must complete supply deals by early March in
order to buy Iranian crude beyond next month, when the current
contracts expire, according to the people. An agreement between
the U.S. and Japan is likely to be concluded by the end of
February, according to the government official. At least one
refiner has already agreed a contract for supplies starting in
January, one of the people said.  China Talks  Japan reduced purchases from Iran by 11.7 percent last year
to 18 million kiloliters, or about 313,000 barrels a day,
according data compiled by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and
Industry. That accounted for 8.8 percent of Japan’s  total crude
oil imports  in the year.  Details of the contract between National Iranian Oil
Co. and China International, or Unipec, are still to be worked
out, according to two people, who declined to be identified
because the information is confidential. The Chinese company
will get a discount for certain crude grades from Iran compared
with market prices, said one of the people.  Huang Wensheng , a Beijing-based spokesman at China
Petroleum & Chemical Corp., the parent of Unipec, declined to
comment on the Iran deal, citing business confidentiality.  India Refiners Undecided  The volume of Unipec’s term purchases from Iran will drop
by some extent from last year’s level of between 265,000 to
280,000 barrels a day because the Chinese state oil company has
halved imports in the first quarter, said one of the people, who
declined to give exact volumes. The two sides should have
completed 2012 supply talks by the end of December, two people
said Jan. 10.  China bought an average of 557,413 barrels daily of Iranian
crude in 2011, accounting for 11 percent of total purchases.  Indian refiners have yet to decide on whether they will
take up Iran’s offer of additional shipments, three people said
today. The terms may not necessarily involve lower prices, and
could include more flexibility in the grades offered and loading
dates, and an increase in the number of days of credit before
 India  is required to pay, one of the people said. Iran hasn’t
offered India a discount for its crude, one of the people said.  The U.S. and the EU suspect  Iran’s nuclear program  is a
cover for developing atomic weapons. President  Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad 's government denies the accusation, maintaining
it’s for civilian purposes. Iran is exercising its “right to
peaceful nuclear energy,”  Ramin Mehmanparast , a Foreign Ministry
spokesman, told reporters in Tehran today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  