-- Billionaire Fredriksen Sees Golar LNG Rates Surging: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-02-21T12:35:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/japan-beating-west-for-lng-tankers-boosts-demand-for-golar-ships-freight.html
Rates for tankers hauling liquefied
natural gas are rising for a third year as expanding Japanese
demand for the fuel attracts cargoes from the Atlantic,
extending voyages at a time of shipping capacity shortages.  Rising requirements from Japan mean  Golar LNG Ltd. (GOL) , which
operates nine LNG tankers and is controlled by shipping
billionaire  John Fredriksen , will report a fourfold gain in 2012
 net income , according to the mean of 11 analyst estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. Golar is reactivating four-decade-old
mothballed ships after rates doubled in 2011 and are forecast by
analysts to advance another 58 percent in 2012.  Traders redirected 13 ships to  Asia  from Europe or the U.S.
in the past month, data compiled by Bloomberg show. LNG from
Nigeria, the largest exporter in the Atlantic, sold for 93
percent more in Japan than in the U.K. in January, up from 40
percent 11 months ago, according to New York-based Poten &
Partners.  “This bottleneck cannot be corrected overnight,” said
Fotis Giannakoulis, a New York-based analyst at Morgan Stanley.
“It will take years, and it is an opportunity for a lot of LNG
shipowners to generate premium returns.”  Shipments to  Japan , the biggest LNG buyer, are swelling to
a record after March’s earthquake and tsunami shuttered about 90
percent of the nation’s nuclear power. Gaps between LNG prices
around the world will last five more years because production is
growing fastest in the Atlantic while demand is being led by
Asia, Morgan Stanley estimates.  $147,000 a Day  LNG tanker rates rose to $97,630 a day last year from
$43,663 in 2010, according to Fearnley LNG, a unit of  Norway ’s
second-largest shipbroker. Daily rents will average $147,000 in
2012, the median of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg
shows. Costs surged as shipowners failed to keep pace with an
expansion in the supply of LNG, liquefied by cooling natural gas
to about minus 160 degrees Celsius (minus 256 degrees
Fahrenheit).  Fredriksen, Golar’s 67-year-old chairman, is betting the
rally won’t end any time soon. The company is spending $400
million on two new LNG carriers and may double the order because
global price gaps and trade growth make the ships a good
investment, according to a Feb. 14 statement.  Demand for LNG vessels will rise 12 percent this year, RS
Platou Markets AS, an Oslo-based investment bank, estimates. Two
new tankers will join the fleet of 374 ships, an expansion of
less than 1 percent, according to London-based  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the
world’s largest shipbroker. The carriers need equipment to hold
about 155,000 cubic meters (5.5 million cubic feet) of liquid
that expands to 95 million cubic meters in gas form, equal to
about 25 percent of peak daily winter demand in the U.K.,
Europe’s biggest gas market.  Record Japan Cargo  Shipments to Japan will expand 3.9 percent to a record 79
million metric tons this year, estimates Arctic Securities ASA,
an Oslo-based investment bank. January imports rose 28 percent
from a year earlier to a record 8.15 million tons, according to
the Ministry of Finance.  The flow of extra cargoes to Asia is worsening the shortage
of shipping capacity because the journey to Japan from  Nigeria 
is about 8,700 miles longer than the voyage to the U.K. European
LNG demand will decline this year and next as the region
contends with a mounting debt crisis, according to  Barclays
Capital . Imports will also contract in  North America  because of
increased gas supply from deposits trapped in shale rocks, the
bank’s analysts wrote in a report Jan. 23.  Oil Rout  Fredriksen’s other shipping investments, spanning  oil
tankers , dry-bulk carriers and  container ships , are suffering
from industry-wide gluts. Frontline Ltd., the billionaire’s
tanker company, split in December to withstand the worst rout in
rates since 1999.  The same slump is hurting other owners. General Maritime
Corp., the second-largest U.S. oil-tanker owner, filed for
bankruptcy in November. Bigger competitor  Overseas Shipholding
Group Inc. (OSG)  suspended its dividend Feb. 9.  Golden Ocean Group Ltd., Fredriksen’s dry-bulk commodity-
shipping company, fell 25 percent in the past year in Oslo
trading. The Baltic Dry Index, a measure of the cost of hauling
coal and iron ore, plunged 45 percent in that span, according to
the London-based Baltic Exchange, which publishes freight rates
along more than 50 maritime routes.  Gains in LNG tanker rates may slow next year as fleet
growth accelerates. Shipyards will deliver 22 new vessels in
2013, equating to a 5.9 percent increase, according to Clarkson.
There are 57 new carriers on order, figures compiled by Redhill,
England-based IHS Fairplay show.  Nuclear Capacity  Japan’s economy contracted an annualized 2.3 percent in the
fourth quarter, the Cabinet Office said Feb. 13. The country is
still contending with last year’s disaster, which led to the
 meltdown  of the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant. Japan had 6.4
percent of its nuclear capacity operating as of Jan. 27,
according to industry data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic growth in  South Korea , Asia’s second-biggest LNG
buyer, will slow to 3.3 percent this year from 3.6 percent in
2011, according to the median of eight economist forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  China , the third-largest importer in the
region, will expand at an 8.5 percent rate, the slowest in more
than a decade, the median of 21 estimates shows.  Asia, accounting for about 60 percent of global LNG demand,
will raise imports by 10.2 million tons this year as shipments
to  Europe  and the U.S. fall 4.4 million tons, Barclays
estimates. Supply in the Atlantic will increase 7.3 million
tons, compared with 3.6 million tons in the Pacific and a 2.2
million-ton decline in the  Middle East .  Stena Orders  Stena Bulk AB, a Swedish owner of 80 ships, may double its
fleet of LNG vessels because of the booming Asian trade. There’s
about an 80 percent change Stena will order at least four new
vessels next month, adding to its current three, Chief Executive
Officer Ulf Ryder said yesterday in an interview in Gothenburg.  Nigerian LNG cost $17.12 per million British thermal units
in Japan and $8.87 in the U.K. last month, compared with $14.38
and $10.27 in March, according to Poten, an industry consultant.
After taking transport and re-gasification costs into account,
profit from selling the gas to Japan was $13.64 on Jan. 31
against $7.17 to the U.K. That compares with respective levels
of $11.96 and $8.93 in March.  Asian LNG buyers are also seeking supplies from outside the
region because Indonesian exports are declining as domestic
demand strengthens. Shipments may drop to about 300 cargoes of
LNG this year from 362 last year and 427 in 2010, Gde Pradnyana,
a spokesman for the nation’s oil and gas regulator BPMigas, said
in December.  Profit Jumps  Demand for LNG carriers will be “strong” for “years to
come” as new production projects are completed and demand from
Japan and China strengthens, Golar said in a statement today.
Fourth-quarter net income surged to $17.2 million from $4.71
million a year earlier and 2011 profit was $46.7 million.  Golar’s net income will jump to $194.2 million this year,
analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg show. The shares, up 1.9
percent in 2012, will rise to 289.11 kroner ($50.72) in the next
12 months, the average of 10 estimates shows, implying a 7.5
percent climb. The stock almost tripled in 2011, and only two of
the 16  analysts  whose recommendations on Golar are tracked by
Bloomberg advise selling.  “Going forward, we expect the arbitrage to be the norm,
rather than something that is strange,” said Per Christian
Fett, an LNG broker at Astrup Fearnley in Oslo. “Even if we had
more ships, the arbitrage would still be there. There are not
enough volumes to close it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  