-- Keydata Founder Seeks Probe Ban on FSA Staff Who Saw E-Mails
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-02-21T15:36:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/keydata-founder-seeks-probe-ban-on-fsa-staff-who-saw-e-mails.html
Keydata Investment Services Ltd.’s
founder told a judge the Financial Services Authority should
exclude from its probe of the company anyone who saw protected
attorney-client e-mails improperly obtained the U.K. regulator.  The FSA, which lost a ruling over the e-mails in October,
should also hand over communications with other agencies to
which it sent the material, including the  Serious Fraud Office 
and the Insolvency Service in Britain and financial watchdogs in
Luxembourg and the  Cayman Islands , lawyers for Stewart Ford said
at a hearing in London today.  “We want to know who at the FSA has seen the material,”
said Hodge Malek, one of Ford’s lawyers. “We say those people
should be taken off the case.”  Keydata administered 2.8 billion pounds ($4.42 billion) of
assets when the FSA asked a court to place it into
administration in 2009. The watchdog had started investigating
the company two years earlier, examining whether it targeted
investors with potentially misleading advertisements, and for
tax irregularities.  The e-mails sent by Ford and other directors to legal
advisers were covered by the attorney-client privilege and
improperly obtained by the FSA, Judge Ian Burnett ruled in
October. The so-called judicial review prompted the regulator to
suspend its four-year-old investigation into Keydata.  The FSA’s lawyer declined to comment during a break in the
hearing. Andrea Kinnear, a spokeswoman for the regulator, didn’t
immediately have a comment when reached by phone.  Lawyer’s Advice  The privileged material included a lawyer’s advice to Ford
on how to deal with the FSA and an instruction that the
regulator should never see the communications, Malek said. The
FSA’s dispersal of the e-mails to other regulators shows it was
“hell-bent” to bring Ford down, Malek said.  “The FSA could have followed the correct and open path;
instead they decided to take a risk because they thought the
material was juicy and prejudicial and would help their case,”
Malek said. “They took a risk and they were wrong.”  Ford wants to prohibit the material from being used for any
purpose, as well as documents that incorporate anything from the
e-mails. He also wants copies of FSA letters informing other
agencies about the judgment, and any responses it received.  The SFO determined Ford wasn’t a suspect and offered to
destroy the encrypted documents it received from the FSA, Malek
said. If other regulators don’t follow suit, the e-mails could
come back to haunt Ford, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  