-- KGHM, PGE, PGNiG, PZU Shares: Central European Equity Preview
-- B y   P i o t r   B u j n i c k i
-- 2012-02-21T07:55:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/kghm-pge-pgnig-pzu-shares-central-european-equity-preview.html
The following is a list of companies
whose shares may undergo unusual price changes in central
European markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses after company
names. Share prices are from the last close.  Poland’s  WIG20 Index (WIG20)  fell 0.5 percent, the Czech  PX Index (PX) 
rose 0.3 percent and Hungary’s  BUX Index (BUX)  climbed 1.1 percent.  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH)  : Quadra FNX Mining Ltd.
shareholders approved a C$2.87 billion ($2.9 billion) takeover
by KGHM. This is Poland’s largest overseas bid aimed at
deepening the Polish copper producer’s global reach. KGHM gained
0.7 percent to 138.5 zloty.  PGE SA (PGE)  : Poland’s Treasury will wait until a court
hearing mid-May on whether the country’s competition regulator
can block PGE, Poland’s largest power utility, from taking over
Energa SA before it decides what to do with the state-owned
electricity distributor, Gazeta Wyborcza reported, citing
Treasury Minister Mikolaj Budzanowski. PGE lost 2.1 percent to
20.5 zloty.  Polskie Gornictwo Naftowe i Gazownictwo SA  (PGN PW):
Poland’s dominant gas company filed a suit in a Stockholm
arbitration court, seeking lower prices in a gas delivery from
OAO Gazprom of Russia, PGNiG said in an e-mailed statement.
PGNiG retreated 0.5 percent to 3.71 zloty.  PZU SA (PZU)  : Poland’s largest insurer will spend 13
billion zloty ($4.1 billion) on acquisitions, Rzeczpospolita
cited Chief Executive Officer Andrzej Klesyk as saying. PZU will
publish a new strategy in March and is looking at insurers in
 Europe  as potential targets, Klesyk said. PZU advanced 0.6
percent to 343 zloty.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Bujnicki in Warsaw 
 pbujnicki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  