-- Kinder Morgan Nears Decision on $3.8 Billion Canadian Pipe
-- B y   M i k e   L e e
-- 2012-02-21T20:34:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/kinder-morgan-nears-decision-on-3-8-billion-canadian-pipe-1-.html
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners LP (KMP) ,
the second-biggest U.S. pipeline operator, said it will decide
by the end of March whether to move ahead with a $3.8 billion
expansion of its Trans Mountain oil-sands pipeline after
receiving ample interest from shippers.  Trans Mountain is the only pipeline currently carrying
crude and refined products from Alberta’s oil-sands region to
Canada’s Pacific Coast. Oil from the pipeline can be shipped to
 Asia  through the port of Vancouver.  Kinder Morgan  received
enough interest from potential shippers to double the line’s
capacity to 600,000 barrels of crude a day, Kinder Morgan said
today in a statement.  “The final decision on the proposed project will be known
by the end of the first quarter,” Kinder Morgan Canada
president Ian Anderson said in the statement.  The Trans Mountain line is the most viable option to ship
Canadian crude to foreign markets because it would follow
existing right-of-way and may encounter less resistance from
landowners and environmental groups, Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Kinder  said at a Jan. 25 analyst conference in Houston.  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL Line, which would
connect to the U.S. Gulf Coast, was rejected by President Barack
Obama earlier this year because of environmental concerns, and
TransCanada must reapply for approval of a new route.  Enbridge
Inc. (ENB) ’s proposed Northern Gateway pipeline, which would extend
from the oil-sands region to Kitimat, British Columbia, is
facing more than a year of regulatory hearings amid opposition
from aboriginal groups.  Trans Mountain Scrutiny  Trans Mountain also faces scrutiny from environmental
groups, who’ve said that an expansion would increase the risk of
an  oil spill  along the line’s route and questioned whether
Vancouver’s harbor can safely accommodate more tanker traffic.  Opposition to the other pipeline projects may improve
Kinder Morgan’s chances when it applies for regulatory approval
for Trans Mountain, Bradley Olsen, an analyst with Tudor
Pickering Holt & Co. in Houston, said in an interview.  A consensus is forming that, “ Canada  will at some point
have a pipeline outlet to the West Coast,” said Olsen, who
rates Kinder Morgan’s units “trim” and doesn’t own any.  “It becomes a question of, do you want a completely new
pipeline or do you want to expand an existing pipeline?”  Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  has said connecting
the oil-sands regions to foreign markets is one of his
government’s top priorities. Canada’s oil production is expected
to grow to 3.5 million barrels a day in 2015, from 2.9 million a
day in 2011, according to the Canadian Association of Petroleum
Producers.  Enterprise Products Partners LP is the biggest U.S.
pipeline operator.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Lee in Dallas at 
 mlee326@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  