-- Kingfisher Airlines Plunges on Flight Cuts, Frozen Accounts: Mumbai Mover
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-02-21T08:40:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/kingfisher-plunges-after-accounts-frozen-13-of-flights-cut-mumbai-mover.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR) , the Indian
carrier struggling with a cash shortage, slumped the most in
more than three years in Mumbai trading after tax authorities
froze bank accounts forcing it to cancel flights.  The airline, controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya,
 plunged  as much as 20 percent, the biggest intraday decline
since Nov. 5, 2008, to 21.35 rupees. It changed hands at 24.65
rupees as of 1:59 p.m. local time  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest airline, and
discount carrier SpiceJet Ltd. both surged on speculation
Bangalore-based Kingfisher may collapse following more than 10
quarters of  losses  caused by price wars and higher  fuel  costs.
Kingfisher, which has cut about 15 percent of services, expects
to resume full operations this week, it said on Feb. 18.  “It’s a dying thing,” said Priyadarshi Srivastava, vice
president of IDBI Capital Market Services Ltd. “Investors still
stuck with the stock have to accept the fact that they have made
a wrong investment.”  Kingfisher expects to win new funding from banks and it is
working to regain access to the frozen accounts, E.K. Bharat Bhushan, the head of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation,
told reporters today in  New Delhi  after a meeting with airline
Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Aggarwal. The regulator gave the
carrier an extension until tomorrow to file a revised schedule.  The carrier is operating less than half of its 64 planes
and it has pared services to about 175 flights a day, Bhushan
said. There are no concerns about safety standards and the
regulator isn’t considering canceling Kingfisher’s flight
permit, he said.  Kingfisher Pilots  The regulator is also checking how many pilots the carrier
still has. As many as 50 have quit since Feb. 14, The Times of
 India  newspaper reported today, without saying where it got the
information. Prakash Mirpuri, a spokesman, didn’t answer two
calls and a text message to his mobile phone. Kingfisher said
yesterday that it has enough flight and cabin crew to operate
its schedule.  “Sensational headlines more speculative than fact,”
Mallya said on his  Twitter feed , without identifying any
specific articles. Mallya also controls liquor-maker  United
Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , a Formula One motor-racing team and owns Indian
Premier League cricket team Royal Challengers Bangalore.  Kingfisher, which hasn’t paid salaries on time since
December, expects to clear overdue wages by March 20, Bhushan
said. The carrier’s flight cuts haven’t so far triggered a jump
in ticket prices, he said.  Shares Fall  United Breweries Holdings Ltd. (UB) , Mallya’s holding company,
fell as much as 12 percent. United Spirits, which makes
McDowell’s No. 1 Whiskey, dropped as much as 5.4 percent. Jet
Airways rose as much as 7.5 percent and SpiceJet jumped as much
as 15 percent.  Kingfisher had jumped 27 percent this year through
yesterday on speculation the government will help money-losing
carriers. Regulatory changes under consideration include letting
airlines import fuel to avoid state taxes and ending a bar on
them selling stakes to foreign carriers.  The airline is seeking new investment after pledging its
brand, office furniture and other assets against $1.3 billion of
 debts . Its loss in the quarter ended Dec. 31 widened to 4.44
billion rupees ($90 million) from 2.54 billion rupees.  SpiceJet (SJET) 
and Jet Airways also lost money in the period. Indian airlines
will probably lose $2.5 billion in the year ending March,
according to CAPA - Centre for Aviation, an industry consultant.  Kingfisher has met with banks and requested additional
working capital. It hasn’t asked the government for a bailout,
it said yesterday. The airline said last month that it’s in
talks with potential investors including SC Lowy Financial
Services.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  