-- Kingfisher Air Reverses 20% Drop After Nearing Loan Agreement With Banks
-- B y   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-02-21T11:53:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/kingfisher-air-reverses-20-drop-after-nearing-loan-agreement-with-banks.html
Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  reversed a
20 percent plunge in Mumbai trading after Bloomberg-UTV said
banks are close to granting a 10 billion rupee ($203 million)
loan to help the carrier maintain operations.  The airline rose 0.4 percent at the close of trading to
26.75 rupees, after earlier having its biggest intraday decline
in more than three years. Calls to Prakash Mirpuri, a company
spokesman, went unanswered.  Kingfisher, controlled by billionaire Vijay Mallya, will
get funding including 4 billion rupees of working capital, the
television channel said, without revealing where it got the
information from. The report eased concerns about the Bangalore-
based airline’s future after it cut about 15 percent flights
because of tax authorities freezing accounts.  “The shares may have gained, but Kingfisher as a brand is
losing its value,” said  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief
strategist at New Delhi-based SMC Global Securities Ltd. “They
have to get their act together or they might run out of time
fast.”  Jet Airways ( India ) Ltd., the nation’s biggest airline,
rose 7.3 percent at the close and discount carrier SpiceJet Ltd.
jumped 10 percent, helped by speculation Kingfisher will
collapse. The airline has lost money for more than 10 quarters
because of rising fuel prices and competition.  Kingfisher expects to win new funding from banks and it is
working to regain access to the frozen accounts, E.K. Bharat Bhushan, the head of the Directorate General of Civil Aviation,
told reporters today in  New Delhi  after a meeting with airline
Chief Executive Officer Sanjay Aggarwal. The regulator gave the
carrier an extension until tomorrow to file a revised schedule.  64 Planes  The carrier is operating less than half of its 64 planes
and it has pared services to about 175 flights a day, Bhushan
said. There are no concerns about safety standards and the
regulator isn’t considering canceling Kingfisher’s operating
permit, he said.  The regulator is also checking how many pilots the carrier
still has. As many as 50 have quit since Feb. 14, The Times of
India newspaper reported today, without saying where it got the
information. Kingfisher said yesterday that it has enough flight
and cabin crew to operate its schedule.  “Sensational headlines more speculative than fact,”
Mallya said on his  Twitter feed , without identifying any
specific articles. Mallya also controls liquor-maker  United
Spirits Ltd. (UNSP) , a Formula One motor-racing team and owns Indian
Premier League cricket team Royal Challengers Bangalore.  Kingfisher, which hasn’t paid salaries on time since
December, expects to clear overdue wages by March 20, Bhushan
said. The carrier’s flight cuts haven’t so far triggered a jump
in ticket prices, he said.  Shares Fall  United Breweries Holdings Ltd. (UB) , Mallya’s holding company,
fell 8.8 percent at the close. United Spirits, which makes
McDowell’s No. 1 Whiskey, dropped 2 percent.  Kingfisher has jumped 27 percent this year on speculation
the government will help money-losing carriers. Regulatory
changes under consideration include letting airlines import fuel
to avoid state taxes and ending a bar on them selling stakes to
foreign carriers.  The airline said last month that it’s in talks with
potential investors including SC Lowy Financial Services. It
told lenders it may receive an equity infusion of $250 million
by March, three people familiar with the matter said Jan. 17.  Kingfisher is seeking new investment after pledging its
brand, office furniture and other assets against $1.3 billion of
 debts . Its loss in the quarter ended Dec. 31 widened to 4.44
billion rupees from 2.54 billion rupees.  SpiceJet (SJET)  and Jet
Airways also lost money in the period. Indian airlines will
probably lose $2.5 billion in the year ending March, according
to CAPA - Centre for Aviation, an industry consultant.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  