-- Knicks Lose to Nets as Williams Overshadows Lin
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-02-21T05:12:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/knicks-lose-to-nets-as-lin-held-to-21-points-in-anthony-s-return-to-lineup.html
The  New York Knicks  were beaten by
the New Jersey Nets 100-92 as  Deron Williams  scored a season-
high 38 points to outplay fellow point guard Jeremy Lin and
overshadow Carmelo Anthony’s return.  Williams hit a career-high eight three-pointers, tying the
most ever against the Knicks, as the Nets won for just the
second time in their past 11 games to improve to 10-24.  The last time the division rivals met on Feb. 4, Lin came
off the bench to score 25 points for the Knicks in a 99-92 win.
He took over as a starter two days later and then carried the
team to seven victories in the next eight National Basketball
Association games. While Lin led the Knicks with 21 points and
nine assists last night at Madison Square Garden, Williams said
his performance had stolen the spotlight.  “We definitely had this one circled,” Williams told
reporters. “I know I did because this was stuck in my mind,
this all started on me. Even tonight he had a great game. It’s
going to be overshadowed because of mine, but it’s definitely a
great story.”  Anthony, back in the lineup for the Knicks after missing
the previous seven games with a groin strain, finished with 11
points on 4-of-11 shooting and had a team-high six turnovers in
37 minutes. Anthony was averaging a team-leading 22.3 points a
game before the injury and Lin’s emergence.  “Sometimes when a guy comes back you stand around watching
him,” Knicks coach  Mike D’Antoni , whose team was outscored
64-43 during the second and third quarters, said at a news
conference. “We just lost what we were doing the last eight or
nine games.”  Nets’ Energy  The Knicks (16-17) were outscored 32-21 in the second
quarter to fall behind 50-42 at halftime and never got closer
than six points the rest of the way. D’Antoni said his team’s
energy wasn’t where it needed to be after the opening quarter.  Nets guard MarShon Brooks, who added 18 points, said his
backcourt mate was motivated by the attention focused on Lin,
the Harvard University graduate whose rise from bench-warmer to
international sensation has been dubbed “Linsanity.”  “We’ve been hearing a lot about Lin from across the
river,” Brooks told reporters. “The difference was we just
played with so much energy and Deron just took the game over. I
knew he was going to come out like that. As a competitor, you
really don’t want to hear about that no more.”  Kris Humphries had 14 points and 14 rebounds for the Nets,
who led by as many as 19 points during the second half.  The Nets hit 15 of their 31 three-point attempts, with
Williams making 8-of-14 shots from beyond the arc. Williams also
totaled six assists before fouling out of the game with just
over three minutes remaining. Lin also fouled out for the first
time in his NBA career.  ‘Gut Check’  “We need to come with the same energy, the same passion
against teams with poorer records than against the defending
champions or the  Los Angeles Lakers ,” said Lin, who helped the
Knicks to a win over the NBA-champion  Dallas Mavericks  two days
ago. “It’s definitely a gut check.”  Lin scored at least 20 points for the eighth time in nine
starts and had his second-fewest turnovers over that stretch for
the Knicks, who host the Atlanta Hawks tomorrow.  “He had a good game and Deron had a great game,” D’Antoni
said. “It’ll be that way sometimes. I’m not big on the matchups
thing because it’s a team game and we didn’t play well as a
team.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  