-- Seven Afghans Are Killed During Protests Over Koran Burning at U.S. Base
-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 2012-02-22T15:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/koran-burning-at-biggest-u-s-military-base-in-afghanistan-brings-apology.html
Seven Afghans died amid gunfire and
the U.S. embassy in Kabul halted travel by its staff during a
second day of protests over the burning by U.S. troops of the
Koran, the Islamic scripture, at their main base in  Afghanistan .  Crowds of men turned violent, throwing stones and in some
cases attacking offices or shops across Kabul and three nearby
provinces of eastern Afghanistan, said local government
spokesmen and residents reached by phone. In addition to the
seven dead, 30 people were injured, according to a statement e-
mailed by the Interior Ministry.  The  U.S. embassy  said in an e-mailed notice that it had
“suspended all travel for embassy personnel in Kabul until
further notice and ordered any personnel not at a secure
compound to return to the embassy immediately.” The U.S.
mission also halted staff members’ movements in the second-
largest city, Kandahar, acting embassy spokesman Mark Thornburg
said in a separate e-mail.  Protests erupted in the eastern city of Jalalabad and in
Logar and Parwan provinces, which adjoin Kabul. They followed
yesterday’s demonstration outside Bagram airbase in Parwan,
where Afghans found that U.S. soldiers had included Korans among
other books dumped and burned as refuse. Bagram is the biggest
U.S. base in Afghanistan.  While U.S. officials quickly apologized and the top U.S.
military commander  announced training  for all troops in “the
proper handling of religious materials,” the Koran burning has
deepened damage to the international forces’ public image,
Afghan and Muslim affairs analysts said in interviews.  Koran and Jesus  The U.S.-led force in Afghanistan and other westerners
often underestimate the reverence of Afghans and other Muslims
for the Koran, said Sultan Shahin, an Indian analyst who runs
 New Age Islam , a website on Muslim and interfaith affairs.  “Americans often suppose that the Koran, as a book, is
analogous to the Christian Bible, but in fact Muslims’ reverence
for the Koran is more like the reverence that Christians feel
for the person of Jesus,” he said in a phone interview in New
Delhi. “For Christians, the divine vehicle of God’s message is
Jesus, while Muslims see their prophet as fully human and the
divine gift is the book.”  The U.S. embassy and the American-led  International
Security Assistance Force , or ISAF, used their websites and
Twitter messages today to publicize apologies by U.S. officials,
including Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta . “We honor and respect
the religious practices of the Afghan people without
exception,” Pentagon spokesman  George Little  told reporters,
citing a statement yesterday by Panetta.  Taliban Victory  The Taliban guerrillas fighting American forces “strongly
condemn the U.S.’ violent action in dishonoring our holy book,”
said the movement’s spokesman,  Zabihullah Mujahed , in a phone
interview. “These disbelievers have committed such acts several
times in the past,” he said.  Despite the U.S. apologies, “this incident is a big
victory for the Taliban because Afghans will believe what they
say -- that the foreigners are here to dishonor our book and
Islamic culture,” said Abdurrahim Muqdader, a tribal elder in
Parwan province, where the Koran burning and the first protest
occurred. He said the incident will increase the danger in
coming days of Afghan troops or police attacking U.S. soldiers
in revenge.  The Korans were damaged after soldiers culled them, with
other books, from a library at a prison for alleged Taliban and
allied Islamic militant fighters, an ISAF statement said. The
volumes were thrown into a pile of debris for burning and pulled
out by Afghan employees at the base.  Burned Pages  “I was collecting pages from the Koran, some burned and
some unburned, and two U.S. soldiers called for me to give the
pages to them,” one such employee, Muhammad Nabi, said in a
phone interview. “I told them, ‘Even if you kill me, I won’t
give them to you,’” Nabi said.  An Afghan policeman shot dead two U.S. soldiers in April
amid four days of protests across Afghanistan sparked when a
Florida pastor,  Terry Jones , oversaw the burning of a Koran at
his church. In that upheaval, Afghan rioters killed 24 people,
including seven international employees of the  United Nations  in
the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif.  Afghans protested again last month when a video was posted
on the Internet showing four U.S. Marines urinating on the
corpses of Afghans who may have been Taliban guerrillas. Panetta
and other American officials condemned that incident.  Afghan troops, police or security guards have killed about
70 troops or other personnel of the U.S.-led international
forces in Afghanistan in 46 attacks since 2007, according to
U.S. Defense Department figures prepared for a Feb. 1
congressional hearing. The U.S. is training the Afghan forces to
take over security duties as the Obama administration prepares
to withdraw the main U.S. combat force from Afghanistan by 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eltaf Najafizada in Kabul at 
 enajafizada1@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  