-- Nigeria Naira Climbs as Dollar Sales Outweigh Inflation Concern
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-02-21T16:19:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/naira-falls-for-2nd-day-on-depreciation-bets-as-inflation-rises.html
Nigeria ’s naira climbed against the
dollar, erasing earlier losses, as oil industry dollar sales
outweighed speculation that a rise in the inflation rate would
weigh on the local currency.  The currency of  Africa ’s largest oil producer strengthened
as much as 0.8 percent and traded up 0.2 percent at 157.2975 as
of 4:43 p.m. in Lagos, after losing as much as 0.7 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The appreciation is due to dollar sales by  oil companies 
and the low demand for the U.S. currency,” Sewa Wusa, a
currency analyst at Lagos-based Sterling Capital Ltd., said by
phone. “However, as a rule, an economy with consistent higher
inflation stands the risk of a weak currency, which raises
concern for the naira.”  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  offers dollars at twice-weekly
auctions and interbank trading to maintain exchange rate
stability. The oil industry is the second major source of dollar
supplies in the country.  The annual  inflation  rate in Nigeria jumped to 12.6 percent
in January from 10.3 percent a month earlier, the National
Bureau of Statistics said yesterday. It has increased from 9.3
percent in August, the lowest since May 2008. The central bank
maintained its  benchmark interest rate  at a record 12 percent
for a second consecutive meeting Jan. 31 to curb inflation after
the government partially removed fuel subsidies, resulting in
higher gasoline costs. The inflation outlook will be impacted by
fiscal injections, the partial deregulation of petrol price and
new tariff regimes on certain food imports, Governor Lamido Sanusi said Jan. 31.  ‘Fiscal Laxity’  “Key factors that depress the naira include fiscal laxity
and a high inflation rate,” Paul-Harry Aithnard, an analyst at
Lome, Togo-based Ecobank Transnational Inc, said in a note to
clients today.  Nigeria increased its target for this year’s budget deficit
to 2.97 percent of gross domestic product from 2.77 percent
forecast in December, the  Finance Ministry  said Feb. 16. Total
expenditure will be cut by about 100 billion naira ($634
million) to 4.6 trillion naira this year, while withdrawals from
the excess crude account, Nigeria’s oil savings, is set to rise
by 36 percent to 306.76 billion naira, the ministry said.  “The greater risk to inflation in our view remains the
fiscal stance, but we detect signs of a new realism from
lawmakers and are cautiously optimistic,” Gregory Kronsten  and
Olubunmi Asaolu, analysts at Lagos-based FBN Capital Ltd., said
in an e-mailed note to clients today.  The central bank is concerned lawmakers may increase
spending by boosting the benchmark oil price to $75 or $80 a
barrel from $70 a barrel, Sanusi said Jan. 31.  Ghana ’s cedi was unchanged at 1.7003 per dollar in Accra,
the capital, after appreciating 0.2 percent yesterday, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  