-- Napoli Rallies to Beat Chelsea 3-1 in Champions League; Real Madrid Draws
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-02-21T23:49:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/napoli-beats-chelsea-3-1-in-champions-league-soccer-cska-ties-real-madrid.html
Napoli came from behind to beat
Chelsea 3-1 in their  Champions League  soccer round-of-16 opener,
as CSKA Moscow tied Real Madrid 1-1 on a last-second goal.  Ezequiel Lavezzi got two goals and Edinson Cavani one in
Naples last night after  Juan Mata  scored for Chelsea, which
hosts the return match in the two-game series March 14 in
London. The winner advances to the quarterfinals.  “Chelsea are very strong and it’s not over, but we have a
good advantage,” Lavezzi told UEFA’s website. “We have to go
there and play another great match trying to score some goals
and close the tie.”  Pontus Wernbloom’s volley in second-half stoppage time gave
CSKA the home draw after Cristiano Ronaldo scored for Real
Madrid, which has won  Europe ’s elite club competition a record
nine times and will host the second game in three weeks.  “Having led the game and conceded so late it doesn’t leave
a good taste in the mouth,” Real manager  Jose Mourinho  told
UEFA’s website. “We must step up for the second leg.”  Chelsea’s defeat followed Arsenal’s 4-0 loss at AC Milan
last week and the group-stage eliminations of  Manchester United 
and Manchester City. The last time an English team failed to
make the last eight was in 1996.  The Blues’ loss in  Italy , which lifted their winless streak
to five matches, also will keep the pressure on first-season
manager Andre Villas-Boas, who’s been criticized by fans and the
media with the team fifth in the Premier League.  Not Ideal  “We keep working hard on the training ground but
unfortunately we don’t seem to transport that on the pitch,”
Chelsea goalkeeper Petr Cech told  Sky Sports . “It is not an
ideal situation but we are still in it and will fight to the
end.”  Cech was forced into saves against Cavani and Christian
Maggio in the opening 18 minutes. Chelsea then took the lead in
the 27th minute as Napoli defender Paolo Cannavaro failed to
control the ball and Mata put his shot into the corner.  Napoli made it 1-1 six minutes before halftime when Lavezzi
curled a shot into the bottom right corner from the edge of the
penalty area and took the lead at the break on a stoppage-time
goal from Cavani.  Lavezzi shot wide of goal after being sent free by Cavani
early in the second half. The two then combined in the 65th
minute as  David Luiz  lost the ball to Cavani, who laid off a
pass which Lavezzi fired past Cech.  Ashley Cole kept the deficit to two goals by clearing
Maggio’s shot off the goalline with nine minutes remaining.  “We have 90 minutes ahead of us to turn the tie around,”
Villas-Boas told Sky Sports.  Madrid Denied  Real  Madrid  controlled play at the Luzhniki Stadium in
Moscow, though was denied a seventh straight win in the
competition by Wernbloom’s last-second goal.  Alan Dzagoev’s free kick into the area was headed by Vasili
Berezutski to the far post, where his brother Aleksei nodded it
back toward the center for Wernbloom to shoot past Iker Casillas
from six yards out.  “Madrid are still the favorites, but the outcome of this
match gives us hope for a good result over the two legs,” CSKA
coach Leonid Slutski said on UEFA’s website.  CSKA goalkeeper Sergei Chepchugov, playing in place of the
injured Igor Akinfeev, made several early saves before Real took
the lead in the 28th minute. Zoran Tosic failed to clear Fabio
Coentrao’s cross and Ronaldo fired a shot into the bottom corner
for his 35th goal of the season.  The remaining first-leg matches in the round of 16 are
scheduled for today, when Marseille hosts  Inter Milan  and  Bayern
Munich  visits Basel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 