-- Netflix User Satisfaction Plunged After Price Rise, Plan Changes
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/netflix-user-satisfaction-plunged-after-price-rise-plan-changes.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ’s customer satisfaction
plunged in the fourth quarter, a reflection of consumer anger
over rising prices and changes to its subscription plans,
according to a survey.  Satisfaction with Netflix, the online and mail-order video
service, slid 14 percent to 74 from a year earlier on a scale of
0 to 100, according to the American Consumer Satisfaction Index.
That was below the 76.1 rating of all retailers and one of the
biggest drops in more than 16 years of tracking,  Ann Arbor ,
Michigan-based ASCI LLC said in a statement.  Netflix angered customers in July with a 60 percent
increase in prices for users who both stream videos and get DVDs
by mail. The company in September tried to rebrand the mail-
order business Qwikster and force some customers to set up
separate accounts, before giving up. Last week, Netflix took
steps to encourage sign-ups to its DVD mail-order business.  “While the plan was abandoned and the company has since
started adding subscribers, the toll on customer satisfaction is
heavy and Netflix remains in a precarious position relative to
the rest of the industry,” the group said in the statement.  Consumers rated  Los Gatos , California-based Netflix as the
worst retail website in the last three months of the year, ASCI
said. The index was created by the  University of Michigan ’s Ross
School of Business.  Netflix has begun adding customers after losing 800,000 in
the third quarter. The company signed 610,000 new customers in
the fourth quarter, to bring the total to 24.4 million.  The shares have gained 76 percent this year after a 61
percent loss in 2011. They closed Feb. 17 at $121.85 in  New
York , little changed from the previous day.  DVD Customers  Netflix, which typically vies with online retailer
 Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  for first place in satisfaction, is adding
content and working to improve its website, according to  Steve Swasey , a spokesman.  “We are the first to admit we did have some missteps,”
Swasey said in an interview. “It’s ours to gain back.”  Netflix on Feb. 17 tempered its drive for new streaming
customers by allowing people to sign up for DVD-only plans on
its website. Previously, the company had removed links on its
website for the $7.99 mail-order plan. Users first had to enroll
in an online plan before they could make changes in their
accounts, Swasey said.  “Nothing’s changed, we’re not backpedaling on our belief
the DVD business is declining and the streaming side of the
business is growing,” Swasey said.  Content Costs  Netflix is in a race to acquire new streaming-only
customers to balance rising content costs and fund an
international expansion,  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush
Securities in  Los Angeles , said. He has an “underperform”
rating on the shares.  “They make less than a dollar a month on a streaming
customer and $3 to $4 on a DVD customer,” Pachter said. “They
would argue that streaming is a fixed cost, which would be true
if they weren’t constantly paying more for content.”  The American Consumer Satisfaction Index is based on
interviews and a model developed at the University of Michigan
that maps customer expectations, perceived quality, value and
satisfaction against customer complaints and customer loyalty.  Another group produced similar findings. Netflix’s customer
satisfaction plummeted seven percentage points in 2011,
according to data collected by the bi-annual Foresee E-tail
Satisfaction Index, according to a Dec. 28 statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  