-- Nordic Currencies Stung in Crisis as Ingves Reverses
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-02-21T16:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/nordic-currencies-stung-in-debt-crisis.html
Sweden  and Norway are losing their
appeal as havens from Europe’s debt crisis at a time when the
krona and krone are more overvalued than at almost any point in
the past 40 years.  Sweden’s central bank cut  interest rates  for a second-
straight meeting on Feb. 16 after exports, accounting for about
half of the nation’s output, fell 6 percent in December.
Norway’s foreign trade slid 4.3 percent in the fourth quarter.
The Swedish krona is about 25 percent too expensive, and the
Norwegian krone more than 40 percent based on an Organization
for Economic Cooperation and Development measure of the relative
costs of goods and services.  Concern the krona’s appreciation is weighing on growth amid
the euro-region’s turmoil marks a reversal from late 2010, when
Riksbank Governor Stefan Ingves dismissed calls to manage the
currency. His Norwegian counterpart, Oeystein Olsen, said last
week he’s ready to act on krone strength even as European
leaders crafted a second Greek bailout and the  U.S. economy 
showed signs of gathering strength.  “Those currencies need to depreciate,” Peter Von Maydell,
head of foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Suisse Securities in
 London , said in a telephone interview on Feb. 14. “Monetary
policy in the case of Norway and Sweden is resisting currency
strength.”  Forecast Cut  Sweden’s Finance Minister Anders Borg said on Feb. 17 that
the government will cut its 2012 growth forecast to 0.5 percent
from an August estimate of 1.3 percent as the debt crisis
reduces exports ranging from appliances by Stockholm-based
Electrolux AB to SKF AB’s ball bearings. The day before, the
Riksbank lowered its  benchmark repo rate  by 0.25 percentage
point to 1.50 percent, and forecast it will stay there through
the first quarter of 2013. The central bank previously signaled
it would average 1.8 percent at the beginning of next year.  The Norges Bank lowered its overnight deposit rate on Dec.
14 by a greater than forecast 0.5 percentage point to 1.75
percent, the biggest reduction since May 2009. Weaker demand
from debt-strapped Europe and krone strength have prompted some
exporters to announce job cuts. Renewable Energy Corp. ASA, a
Sandvika-based maker of solar energy components, said on Oct. 26
that it would shut some plants, affecting 700 workers.  The krona and krone are lagging behind the  Australia  and
 New Zealand  dollars, also seen as havens, after outperforming a
year ago, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative Performance  Since Oct. 27, the krona had fallen 1.7 percent as of 4:03
p.m. London time, as measured in a basket of 10 developed-market
currencies, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show. The
krone was 1.4 percent lower. Australia’s dollar was 2.5 percent
higher, with New Zealand’s dollar rising 5.3 percent.  The krona was little changed today at 8.8102 per euro, and
rose 0.2 percent to 6.6414 against the dollar. The krone
weakened 0.3 percent versus the euro to 7.5284, and slipped
about 0.1 percent to 5.6722 against the dollar.  Analysts predict the Nordic currencies will depreciate
against the dollar and the euro through at least the third
quarter. The krone will weaken to 7.60 per euro and drop to 6
against the dollar, according to the median of more than 20
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The krona will decline to 8.89
versus the euro and to 6.90 per dollar, separate surveys show.  The krone is overvalued against the dollar by about the
most since at least 1970, based on a gauge of purchasing power
parity by the Paris-based OECD that tracks prices of similar
goods and services across countries. The krona is also
overvalued by about the highest in more than 40 years.  Watching for Response  “There are limits” in how much currency strength the
Norwegian and Swedish economies can take, Bjoern-Roger Wilhelmsen, chief interest-rate and currency strategist at
Swedbank First Securities in Oslo, and a former central bank
economist, said in an interview on Feb. 17. “A substantial
appreciation would lead to  monetary policy  responses.”  Losses in the currencies may also be compounded because
they are two of the four least-traded currencies within the
Group of 10, Bank for International Settlements data show,
making it harder for international investors to exit.  The two accounted for 3.5 percent of the $4 trillion
average daily turnover in foreign-exchange markets during the
three years ended in 2010, according to the Basel, Switzerland-
based BIS.  ‘Thrown Around’  “Their illiquidity is definitely a negative when markets
are in risk off mode,” said  Adam Cole , global head of foreign-
exchange strategy at  RBC Capital Markets  in London. “They tend
to be thrown around by general risk appetite. They’re both
vulnerable at the moment to their exposure to the  euro zone .”  Euro-region gross domestic product will shrink 0.5 percent
in 2012, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg survey
of 19 economists. That compares with 1.6 percent growth in
Sweden and 2.2 percent in  Norway , separate surveys show. U.S.
GDP will increase 2.2 percent, according to another poll.  Greece  won a second bailout after European governments
wrung concessions from private investors and tapped into
European Central Bank profits to shield the euro area from a
precedent-setting default. Finance ministers awarded 130 billion
euros in aid, engineered a central-bank profits transfer and
coaxed investors into providing more debt relief in an exchange
meant to tide Greece past a March bond repayment.  No Net Debt  As the euro region contracts this year, the Nordic
currencies appeal as havens may outweigh prospects for further
rate cuts, according to Claire Dissaux, the London-based
managing director of global economics and strategy at Millennium
Global Investments, which oversees about $12 billion.  “On both currencies I hold pretty positive views and more
so possibly at the current levels on the krona,” Dissaux said
in a Feb. 16 interview. “In Sweden and Norway we’ve got good
sovereign balance sheets and no need for fiscal consolidation.”  Norway, the world’s seventh-biggest oil exporter, has no
net debt and the biggest budget surplus of any AAA rated nation.
Sweden, similarly top rated, has shrunk government debt every
year since 2009 and its budget is in surplus.  The Norwegian central bank is monitoring the krone as
policy makers focus on boosting competitiveness in the nation,
Olsen said. “We follow closely the krone developments,” he
said in a Feb. 16 interview. “There is no specific level at
which we react.”  He said today in a speech in Oslo that the krone has
“strengthened markedly” from “an already strong level.”  Growth slowed in the fourth quarter as the debt crisis
curbed exports. GDP, excluding oil, gas and shipping output,
grew 0.6 percent after 0.8 percent in the previous period, Oslo-
based  Statistics Norway  said Feb. 16.  Missed Estimates  “Some segments of the export industry are feeling the
effects of lower turnover and a strong krone,” Olsen said in
the text of a speech the same day.  Weaker demand from  Europe  means one in four exporters are
planning to cut staff this quarter, according to the
Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise on Feb. 14.  “Sluggish growth in the euro area has subdued the demand
for Swedish exports, which slowed down significantly in 2011,”
the Riksbank said Feb. 16.  Electrolux, the world’s second-biggest appliance maker,
said Feb. 2 that fourth-quarter demand in western Europe fell 3
percent from a year earlier “following deterioration in several
major southern European markets.” Net income was 220 million
kronor ($33 million), less than the 581 million kronor average
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 13 analysts.  Bonds, Stocks  SKF, the largest maker of ball bearings, which are used in
construction cranes and cars, said Jan. 26 that sales will
probably be “slightly lower” in Europe in the first quarter.
Tom Johnstone, chief executive officer of the Gothenburg-based
company, said in an interview that Europe is a concern for the
company.  Sweden’s trade surplus shrank to its narrowest in more than
a year at the end of 2011,  Statistics Sweden  said on Jan. 26.  Bond markets have also underperformed. An auction of
Swedish 2022 bonds on Feb. 8 drew the lowest demand in more than
a year. The nation’s 10-year borrowing costs rose above those of
 Germany  a day earlier for the first time since September.  The OMX Stockholm 30 Index of equities has risen 12 percent
this year, lagging behind euro-region indexes in nations
including Greece, Germany and  Finland . Norway’s benchmark index
rose 9.9 percent this year.  “We believe the risk lies to the downside as the growth
slowdown, currency overvaluation and an easing-rate cycle should
offset any upside from an uptick in risk appetite,” Adrian Lee,
president and chief investment officer at currency manager
Adrian Lee & Partners in London, said in an e-mailed response to
questions on Feb. 17.  The euro-region outlook “should keep the Nordic central
banks in an easing cycle,” he said. “This should see krone-
krona depreciation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 