-- TNT Express to Refocus on European Operations as Financial Losses Mount
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b
-- 2012-02-21T17:24:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/tnt-express-reports-fourth-quarter-loss-on-emerging-market-growth-slowdown.html
TNT Express NV (TNTE) , the Dutch express-
delivery service in takeover talks with United Parcel Service
Inc., said it will refocus operations on  Europe  as financial
losses mounted.  The 2011  operating loss  at Europe’s second-largest express-
delivery service was 105 million euros ($139 million) compared
with earnings before interest and taxes of 180 million euros a
year earlier, the Hoofddorp, Netherlands-based company said
today. Sales climbed 2.7 percent to 7.25 billion euros.  TNT Express, which was spun off from the former Dutch
national postal operator in May, will seek cooperation
agreements with airlines to carry goods outside Europe and
partnerships to provide services in China and Brazil. TNT
Express is in talks with UPS after rejecting a 4.89 billion-euro
offer on Feb. 11 from the Atlanta-based company.  “We recognize that more investment is required” in
subsidiaries in Brazil and  China  to make them “high-standard
operating companies, and we see some complementary competencies
with potential partners,” Chief Executive Officer Marie- Christine Lombard said on a conference call with journalists.
“It could be commercial agreements, could be joint ventures, it
could go up to a sale. It’s too early to say.”  Shares Decline  TNT Express  dropped  29 cents, or 2.9 percent, to 9.87 euros
in Amsterdam today. Following UPS’s offer of 9 euros a share,
TNT Express’s stock is trading up 71 percent this year, valuing
the company at 5.37 billion euros.  The Dutch company plans to reduce fixed costs by 150
million euros by the end of 2013, TNT Express said today. The
program will include reorganization costs and write-offs of 150
million euros.  Operating losses last year amounted to 360 million euros in
the Americas and 76 million euros in the Asia-Pacific region.
Operating profit in Europe totaled 356 million euros.  “They’re throwing in the towel a bit too early in Asia-
Pacific and  Brazil  especially,” Andre Mulder, an Amsterdam-
based Kepler Capital Markets analyst who recommends buying the
shares, said by phone. “They have 20 percent market share in
Brazil, so they should be able to make a good margin there. If
they can’t do it with that market share, who else can?”  Air Capacity  One-third of the cost savings will stem from reductions in
TNT Express’s own air-shipment capacity, with 10 to 12 planes of
its 50-aircraft internal European fleet being phased out and
intercontinental capacity being reduced by half, Lombard said.
TNT Express will seek “preferred suppliers” among airlines
that can provide cargo capacity, she said.  The remaining two-thirds of the savings program will focus
on reorganizing back-room operations, with administration and
information technology among activities that will be contracted
out, according to Lombard.  An acquisition of TNT Express by  UPS (UPS) , the world’s largest
package-delivery company, or its main competitor,  Memphis ,
Tennessee-based FedEx Corp., has been speculated about for years
as the U.S. companies study European expansion. The talk gained
momentum after TNT Express’s spinoff from the Dutch mail
service, now called PostNL NV.  Market Share  Underlying operating profit, which excludes one-time
effects and currency shifts, fell to 228 million euros in 2011
from 323 million euros a year earlier and amounted to 3.1
percent of sales, missing TNT Express’s target range of 8
percent to 9 percent. The company reduced the target in October
from a plan for the margin to exceed 9 percent.  Deutsche Post AG (DPW) ’s DHL unit is the biggest express delivery
service in Europe, with a 17.6 percent share of the market in
2010, according to figures from Transport Intelligence. UPS had
a 7.7 percent share of the region’s express and parcels service
market that year, compared with  FedEx (FDX) ’s 3.3 percent and TNT
Express’s 9.6 percent.  “We have a great presence in European countries, so I
would say there is no reason why that can’t grow
independently,” TNT Express Chief Financial Officer Bernard Bot
said on a telephone conference today with journalists, declining
to comment further on the UPS offer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Alex Webb  in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  