-- Obama Urges Public Pressure for Economic Plans
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-02-21T19:29:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/obama-gathering-taxpayers-to-highlight-payroll-tax-cut-stories.html
President  Barack Obama  said public
pressure was vital in getting Congress to extend a temporary
payroll tax cut for workers and urged voters to push lawmakers
to act on his proposals to help struggling homeowners and raise
taxes on millionaires.  “This got done because of you, because you called, you e-
mailed, you tweeted your representatives” to get them to act,
Obama said of the payroll tax cut at an event meant to highlight
U.S. workers who will benefit. “My message to Congress is,
don’t stop here. Keep going.”  Obama used the passage of the  payroll tax  cut to mark an
election-year victory on a part of his economic plan. With the
threat of the temporary  tax cut  expiring at the end of the
month, Republicans dropped their insistence on cutting spending
to pay for the legislation.  To follow up, Obama lobbied for his proposal to let
homeowners who owe more on their mortgages than their houses are
worth, and are current on their payments, save $3,000 per year
through refinancing into lower-interest loans guaranteed by the
 Federal Housing Administration . Lawmakers should back pending
legislation to help small businesses export more goods, he said.  Buffett Rule  He also renewed his call for Congress to pass legislation
that would ensure taxpayers with incomes of $1 million or more
pay a minimum rate of 30 percent. The measure is known as the
Buffett rule after billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who
originated the idea last year.  “This may be an election year, but the American people
have no patience for gridlock,” the president said.  Republicans have rejected Obama’s proposals, with House
Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio calling them a rehash of earlier
plans that won’t improve the economy.  House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor  of Virginia said Feb. 19
that he would assemble a package of bills, including a 20
percent tax cut for small business in “the next several
weeks.”  The Senate and the  House of Representatives  cleared the
$145 billion payroll package on Feb. 17, and the White House
said Obama plans to sign it into law later this week.  In addition to extending a two-percentage-point tax cut for
workers, the measure will continue expanded  unemployment
benefits  and avoid a cut in doctors’  Medicare (FFOYMED)  reimbursements
through the end of this year. The provisions would have expired
at the end of the month if Congress hadn’t acted.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  