-- Obama Administration Said Set to Release Corporate Tax-Rate Plan Tomorrow
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-02-21T23:10:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/obama-administration-said-set-to-release-corporate-tax-rate-plan-tomorrow.html
The Obama administration will
release details tomorrow on its proposal to reduce the 35
percent corporate tax rate and eliminate tax breaks, said
administration officials familiar with the plan.  The Treasury Department will outline the proposal,
according to the officials, who briefed reporters on condition
of anonymity. They didn’t discuss details of the
administration’s proposal.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said Feb. 15 during
congressional testimony that the administration would release a
proposal that is “more than principles but less than fully
articulated legislative language.”  He said the proposal would include a lower  corporate tax 
rate and the elimination of dozens of tax breaks. The
administration will propose retaining breaks that directly
support investment in the U.S., he said.  “We’ll have a very important debate about which of those
types of incentives we should preserve, which ones we can’t
afford any longer,” Geithner told the House Ways and Means
Committee.  The current U.S. corporate tax rate is the second-highest
marginal rate in the world. Effective tax rates on U.S.
companies are below 30 percent, in line with the tax burden in
other major economies.  UPS (UPS) , Macy’s  Companies such as United Parcel Service Inc. and Macy’s
Inc. have been urging a reduction in the corporate tax rate.
Other companies, including Apple Inc. and Google Inc., have been
lobbying for a tax holiday on profits earned outside the
country.  Any revenue-neutral change would tend to raise taxes on
companies that benefit from many tax breaks, such as drugmakers
and technology companies, while lowering payments for retailers
and others that don’t get many tax breaks under the current
system.  The U.S. expects to collect $236.8 billion in corporate
income taxes, or 1.5 percent of gross domestic product, in the
fiscal year ending Sept. 30.  The administration has been working on a corporate tax
overhaul for more than a year. In his 2011 State of the Union
address, President  Barack Obama  blamed “a parade of lobbyists”
for the complex  tax code  that leaves companies with disparate
tax rates.  ‘Rid of the Loopholes’  “Get rid of the loopholes,” he said. “Level the playing
field. And use the savings to lower the corporate tax rate for
the first time in 25 years –- without adding to our  deficit .  It
can be done.”  This year, Obama’s speech focused on international  tax
avoidance  and said he wanted to remove tax provisions that he
said encourage companies to move jobs outside the country.  “From now on, every multinational company should have to
pay a basic minimum tax,” he said. “And every penny should go
towards lowering taxes for companies that choose to stay here
and hire here in America.”  The administration’s budget, released Feb. 13, didn’t
provide details on the minimum tax. It included corporate tax
provisions the administration has previously tried and failed to
advance in Congress.  Camp’s Plan  Representative  Dave Camp , a Michigan Republican who is
chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has released
part of a proposed corporate tax overhaul. Camp proposed a 25
percent top rate and changes to the international tax system
that would allow companies to avoid paying U.S. taxes on most of
the income they earn outside the country.  Last week, Camp urged Geithner to propose a comprehensive
tax-code overhaul that would include changes to corporate and
individual taxation.  The proposals from the administration and Camp are designed
not to increase the federal  budget deficit , in contrast with
policies promoted by the Republican presidential candidates.  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor, wants to
reduce the corporate tax rate to 25 percent before eliminating
any tax breaks.  Rick Santorum , the former Pennsylvania senator,
wants to cut the rate to 17.5 percent and eliminate corporate
taxes for manufacturers.  Newt Gingrich , the former House speaker, wants to cut the
rate to 12.5 percent and let companies write off all capital
investments immediately.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  