-- Obama Sings Blues at White House Event With B.B. King
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/obama-to-groove-with-mick-jagger-b-b-king-at-white-house-show.html
President  Barack Obama  sang the
blues at the White House, with some prompting, as some of the
genre’s best known musicians gathered for a concert last night
to mark Black History Month.  Mick Jagger ,  B.B. King , Buddy Guy and  Jeff Beck  were among
the artists taking the stage for the eighth installment of the
“In Performance at the White House” concert series. King sang
“The Thrill Is Gone” and Jagger offered “I Can’t Turn You
Loose,” among the selections in a 15-song set.  Obama said the blues had its roots in slavery and
segregation and the indignities faced in the past by black
Americans. The genre  “refused to be limited” and spread from
the South to Chicago and around the world to lay the foundation
for rock and roll, hip-hop and R&B, he said.  The blues has a universal appeal because “no one goes
through life without both joy and pain, triumph and sorrow,”
the president said.  “The blues reminds us that we’ve been through tougher
times before,” he said. “When we find ourselves at a
crossroads, we don’t shy away from our problems. We own them. We
face up to them. We deal with them. We sing about them.”  Obama plans to speak today at the construction site for the
Smithsonian’s National Museum of African American History and
Culture, to open in 2015.  Break From Rehearsals  The day before the performance, Obama met with the
musicians and their families, talking music, not politics, said
two of the musicians, Keb Mo and Troy “Trombone Shorty”
Andrews. They spoke with reporters during a break yesterday from
rehearsals at the White House.  Jagger told fans in a message on Feb. 20 on the social
networking site Twitter that Obama “seemed really relaxed and
happy.”  Buddy Guy goaded Obama into singing a few words from
“Sweet Home  Chicago ,” a reference to the president’s hometown,
as the ensemble finished the last song. “I heard you singing Al
Green,” Guy teased the president. “You done started
something.”  Obama, in the audience, at first demurred, then took the
microphone to the crowd’s delight. The president had previously
displayed his singing prowess by crooning a line from Green’s
1971 hit “Let’s Stay Together” at a Jan. 19 fundraiser.  Keb Mo joked earlier in the day that Obama would one day
release a record to be called, “Now I Can Finally Get My Groove
On.”  Important Tradition  The performer said that, while blues music is important as
a tradition for African Americans and Guy and King are “elder
statesmen” who paved the way for others, white British
musicians such as Jagger and Beck did as much as anyone to make
the music popular with people of all races and nationalities.  First lady  Michelle Obama , at a blues music clinic for
students at the White House, said the blues is “as deeply
American -- and as deeply human -- as just about any form of
music that we’ve got in this country” that “stirs our souls
and it helps us rise above all our struggles.  “And that’s why this music series is so deeply rooted in
the American experience,” she said. “That’s why it has
traveled from the Deep South into every part of the country and
just about every form of music that we hear today.”  Susan Tedeschi, Shemekia Copeland, Gary Clark Jr., Derek
Trucks and Warren Haynes also were featured.  “At the Crossroads: A History of the Blues in America”
was streamed on the White House website last night and will be
broadcast on PBS stations on Feb. 27 at 9 p.m., according to a
statement from the White House.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  