-- F-35 Fails to Meet Goals Costing Lockheed $32 Million
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-02-22T15:04:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/lockheed-loses-31-5-million-in-f-35-fighter-payments-from-u-s-.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  lost $31.5
million of a possible $52.5 million in U.S. payments last year
because its F-35 fighter failed to meet three milestones,
according to Pentagon data.  Lockheed, the world’s largest defense contractor, had an
opportunity to earn as much as $10.5 million for each of five
performance goals set for the fighter. It successfully completed
two, Joseph DellaVedova, the Pentagon’s spokesman for the F-35
program, said in an e-mail.  The forfeited $31.5 million marked the second consecutive
year of reduced fees after Defense Secretary  Robert Gates 
tightened payment criteria for the F-35, the Pentagon’s most
costly weapons program, in February 2010.  The annual performance payments are Bethesda, Maryland-
based Lockheed’s only fees on the $27.4 billion development
contract that goes through 2016. Lockheed is paid separately for
delivery of aircraft under the initial four production
contracts.  The reduced fees marred a year when the Pentagon’s test
office  reported  the three versions of the F-35 matched or
exceeded the program’s restructured plan for tests designed to
evaluate flying qualities. The jet met most test goals in 2010
after falling behind in 2009.  The Pentagon’s top weapons buying group, the Defense
Acquisition Board, met yesterday to review a revised cost
estimate and schedule for what’s now a $382 billion project. The
results will be adopted in an official Pentagon decision memo,
spokeswoman  Cheryl Irwin  said in an e-mail.  Matters to Shareholders  Falling short on the milestones “matters to Lockheed
Martin shareholders,”  Byron Callan , director of defense
analysis for Capital Alpha Partners LLC, in Washington, said in
an e-mail. “Clearly, if incentives aren’t being earned, it
means the program isn’t exceeding expectations. Being on track
might be OK, but being on firmer ground would be even better in
this budget environment.”  Higher fees to Lockheed Martin would confirm “what
investors have been hearing -- that the program is making
progress and test milestones are being knocked down,” he said.  Lockheed  rose 46 cents  to $87.61 at 9:57 a.m. in New York
trading after increasing 6.5 percent in the 12 months through
yesterday.  Citing improved performance, Defense Secretary Leon Panetta
last month ended a two-year “probation” that Gates had imposed
on the Marine Corps version of the plane, the F-35B designed for
short takeoffs and vertical landings. It is the most complex
model.  ‘Significant Progress’  “We successfully met the criteria for two milestones and
made significant progress on the other three,” although the
F-35 contract doesn’t allow for partial credit, Michael Rein, a
Lockheed Martin spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “While we’re disappointed that we did not meet our
customers’ expectations on all of the specific elements of the
award fee milestones, we believe the F-35 program made
outstanding progress in flight test, training and production in
2011,” Rein said.  For 2010, Lockheed earned $7 million of a possible $35
million based on performance, forfeiting the remaining $28
million because it failed to meet the required milestones.  Money Withheld  Gates had withheld from the F-35’s development program $614
million, Lockheed’s remaining unearned fees, as he extended that
phase and delayed purchases of 122 aircraft.  He also directed the Pentagon’s F-35 program office to
tighten criteria for earning the withheld money. The $35 million
and $52.5 million in potential fees were part of a pool that is
now down to $526.5 million.  Robert Stevens , Lockheed’s chairman and chief executive
officer, said in a July 29 interview, that the company was “on
track” to meet the five milestones. “Our heads are down,” he
said. “We are focused.”  Of the five milestones, Lockheed and subcontractors
 Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  successfully met all
criteria for ground testing used to verify structural integrity
at hundreds of airframe locations. Lockheed also completed sea
trials of the F-35B, accomplishing 72 short takeoffs and 72
vertical landings on the USS Wasp.  Lockheed didn’t accomplish all the requirements for two
software releases or of aircraft carrier “suitability” tests
of launching and landings conducted on the ground in Lakehurst,
 New Jersey .  The fee was withheld because Lockheed needs to redesign a
faulty tail-hook assembly that failed in some of the ground
tests to fully hook onto the arresting cable used during
landings. The flaw was discovered early enough to keep on track
for testing at sea in 2014, according to DellaVedova.  Lockheed was informed of the fee decision on Jan. 30, four
days after reporting fourth-quarter earnings, DellaVedova said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in  Washington  at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  