-- Oil Rises to Nine-Month High on Greece, Iran
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-02-21T21:41:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/oil-rises-to-highest-level-in-nine-months-as-europe-reaches-greek-aid-deal.html
Oil increased to a nine-month high
after  Greece  won a second bailout and Iran said it stopped
selling crude to France and Britain.  Futures rose 2.5 percent after the euro-area ministers
approved 130 billion euros ($173 billion) in aid for Greece by
tapping into European Central Bank profits and coaxing investors
into providing debt relief, shielding the region from a default.
Iran stopped selling oil to the countries yesterday, preempting
a European Union ban, an official news website said.  “There’s a lot of relief about the Greek situation in the
market and Iran is making a lot of noises,” said  Kyle Cooper ,
director of research at IAF Advisors, a Houston-based energy
consulting company. “The Greek agreement has increased optimism
about the economy.”  Crude oil for March delivery gained $2.60 to $105.84 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement since May 4. Futures have risen 7.1 percent this
year. The March contract expired at the close of floor trading.  The more active April contract increased $2.65, or 2.6
percent, to $106.25 a barrel on the Nymex. Floor trading was
closed yesterday because of the U.S. Presidents Day holiday.  Brent oil for April settlement increased $1.61, or 1.3
percent, to $121.66 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange, also a nine-month high.  Greek Economy  Greece will enjoy an economic rebound now that European
finance ministers have approved the rescue package, IIF managing
director Charles Dallara said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Brussels.  “The Greece news is part of what rallied the market,”
said  Tom Bentz , a director with BNP Paribas Prime Brokerage Inc.
in New York. “The market is up after the Iranians cut off
supplies to some European countries.”  Brent touched $121.88 today, the highest level since May 5,
following Iran’s announcement of the oil export halt. The
European Union on Jan. 23 agreed to ban crude imports from Iran
starting July 1 to pressure the country over its nuclear
program.  Iran “will give its crude oil to new customers instead of
French and U.K. companies,” the  Shana  oil ministry news website
reported yesterday, citing Alireza Nikzad Rahbar, a ministry
spokesman.  Iran Sanctions  The Iranian decision will have “no impact on Britain’s
energy security or supplies,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday.  EU nations bought a combined 18 percent of Iran’s exports
of crude and condensates, or 452,000 barrels a day, in the first
half of 2011, according to the U.S. Energy Department. France
purchased 49,000 barrels a day and the U.K. 11,000 barrels.  “The sanctions are making it increasingly difficult for
Iran to sell oil,” said Bill O’Grady, chief market strategist
at Confluence Investment Management in  St. Louis . “You are
effectively taking Iran out of the global market to some extent,
and that’s a big deal.”  Iran pledged to press on with its efforts to develop atomic
energy as the United Nations nuclear watchdog started a second
day of meetings in Tehran.  Iran  has mastered the full nuclear-fuel cycle and the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  supervises its work,  Ramin Mehmanparast , a Foreign Ministry spokesman, told reporters in
Tehran today.  “The oil market popped on the Iran headlines,” said  Phil Flynn , senior market analyst at PFGBest Research in Chicago.
“We got an extra dollar on the headlines, which dashed hopes
that there may return to serious negotiations.”  U.S. Equities  Oil also gained as the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  topped
13,000 for the first time since May 2008 and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index traded above the highest close since 2008. Both
indexes retreated after crude settled.  Hedge funds  and other money managers raised wagers on
advancing  oil prices  by 14 percent in the week ended Feb. 14 to
233,889, according to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders report. It was the highest level since
May 10.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 669,407
contracts as of 3:36 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 723,843
contracts on Feb. 17, 21 percent above the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.46 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at 
 bbanker@bloomberg.net  