-- Oil Trades Near Nine-Month High on Iran Tension
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-02-21T13:05:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/oil-rises-to-nine-month-high-on-iran-export-halt-europe-bailout-meeting.html
Oil traded near the highest price in
nine months in  New York  after euro-area finance ministers agreed
on a second bailout for  Greece .  Crude advanced as much as 2.1 percent from its Feb. 17
settlement. There was neither floor trading nor a closing price
yesterday in the U.S. because of the Presidents’ Day holiday.
Brent, the benchmark for half the world’s oil, was little
changed in London after Europe Union finance ministers awarded
130 billion euros ($173 billion) in aid to Greece.  “The Greek bailout was priced into oil because it was
expected that a deal would be approved,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in London. “Brent is
overbought. We have some geopolitical issues in Iran and Syria
but OPEC is producing at record levels and output from Libya is
increasing.”  Oil futures for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange , which expire today, rose as high as $105.44, up $2.20
from the Feb. 17 close and the highest price since May 5. They
were at $104.59 at 1 p.m. London time, while the more-actively
traded April contract was at $104.90, up $1.30. Today’s trades
will be booked with yesterday’s electronic transactions for
settlement.  Brent oil for April settlement on the ICE Futures Europe
exchange in London was down 22 cents, or 0.2 percent, at $119.83
after rising yesterday to as much as $121.15, the highest since
June 15. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-
traded West Texas Intermediate was at $14.93, compared with this
year’s widest spread of $19.02 on Feb. 6.  Iran-China Deal  Oil pared gains after  China  International United Petroleum
& Chemical Co., the trading unit of China’s largest refiner,
agreed terms of a 2012 crude-supply deal with Iran, according to
three people with knowledge of the negotiations.  Data released earlier today by the General Administration
of Customs showed China, the biggest buyer of Iranian crude, cut
purchases in January to the lowest level in five months after
 oil companies  in the two nations failed to renew contracts.
Crude imports were 2.08 million metric tons, or about 493,000
barrels a day, according to Bloomberg calculations from the
data. That was down 5 percent from a year ago and 14 percent
from December.  Supplies to India  Iran offered  India  extra crude supplies on revised terms as
international sanctions tightened the Middle East producer’s
circle of oil customers, according to three people with
knowledge of the talks. Indian refiners have yet to decide on
whether they will take up Iran’s offer of additional shipments,
the people said. The South Asian nation’s government is open to
increasing oil imports from the Persian Gulf state, according to
two of the people.  The EU said yesterday that member countries are cutting oil
purchases from Iran and have sufficient reserves to deal with
disruptions. The EU agreed to stop purchases of Iranian crude
starting July 1 in a move to punish the Persian Gulf country’s
nuclear program.  Iran is unlikely to close the Strait of Hormuz, said Amrita Sen, a commodities analyst at Barclays Plc in  London .  “We’ve talked about Hormuz, which we don’t think will
happen. That could take it to $150 or even higher,” Sen said in
interview with  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s “On the
Move” program. “An Israeli strike on Iranian production would
be much worse.”  UN Investigators  United Nations investigators are starting two days of
meetings in Iran, offering Tehran a chance to stem speculation
that its nuclear program will spark a military conflict. Iran’s
oil-ministry news website Shana reported Feb. 19 that the nation
will cut supplies to the U.K. and  France .  Iran’s attempt to preempt a European Union import ban will
have “no impact on Britain’s energy security or supplies,”
U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday in London.
The U.K. got 1 percent of its crude from  Iran  in the first half
of 2011 and France got 4 percent, according to the U.S. Energy
Administration.  “We imagine this was met by our friends in London with a
general shrug,”  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group
in Villanova, Pennsylvania, said in a note today. He estimates
that 22 percent of Iranian crude exports are purchased by China,
while  Japan  buys 14 percent. “Until we see one of these buyers
affected, Iran will remain mostly bark and little bite.”  Hedge-funds and other money managers raised bullish bets on
 Brent crude  by 6,818 contracts, or 7.5 percent, in the week
ended Feb. 14, data yesterday from the ICE Futures Europe
exchange showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  