-- Crude Oil Falls From Nine-Month High on Signs of Slowdown in Europe, China
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-02-22T13:56:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/oil-drops-in-new-york-on-concern-greek-bailout-not-enough-to-stem-crisis.html
Oil fell from a nine-month high as
signs of slowing demand in  Europe  and  China  countered concern
that a conflict between  Iran  and Western nations may escalate
and disrupt supplies from the Persian Gulf producer.  Futures slipped as much as 0.6 percent in New York after an
index based on a survey of euro-region purchasing managers
unexpectedly declined, signaling a contraction. Manufacturing in
China, the world’s second-biggest oil consumer, may shrink for a
fourth month. Oil rose earlier after United Nations inspectors
in Iran said they were denied access to a suspected nuclear-
related military base.  The purchasing manager index indicates that “euro-zone
economies will remain very weak in the months ahead,” said Andy Sommer, a senior trader at EGL AG in Dietikon,  Switzerland .
“That means oil demand in the euro zone remains weak.”  Oil for April delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
fell as much as 64 cents to $105.61 a barrel and was at $105.78
at 1:49 p.m.  London  time. The contract earlier rose to $106.41,
the most since May 5. Front-month prices have gained 13 percent
in the past year.  Brent for April settlement was down 1 cent at $121.65 a
barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London. The
European benchmark contract’s  premium  to New York-traded West
Texas Intermediate widened to $15.87 a barrel from $15.41.  “One hundred and twenty dollars, for us, is a cap for
prices,” Sommer at EGL said. “Without new supporting bullish
news, some reverse had to be expected.”  Nuclear Program  The  International Atomic Energy Agency  said Iran refused
permission to visit the Parchin military base during two days of
talks that ended yesterday. An Iranian military commander said
his nation would consider pre-emptive action if threatened.  “The fact that the inspectors couldn’t see what they
wanted to see is also fuel on the fire,” said Gerrit Zambo, a
trader at  Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “Any action,
especially in the Strait of Hormuz, will certainly push up  oil
prices  much higher than these levels.”  Israel and the U.S. have said all options are on the table
in ensuring the Persian Gulf nation doesn’t acquire atomic
weapons. Iran says its nuclear program is for energy.  Speculation that oil supplies will be disrupted has
increased as tension between Iran and Western nations escalates,
 David Greely , head of energy research at Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. in  New York , said in a report today. The bank maintained a
recommendation that investors buy Brent contracts for July 2012
to take advantage of rising prices.  Slowing Growth  A euro-area composite index based on a survey of purchasing
managers in services and manufacturing industries dropped to
49.7 from 50.4 in January, London-based Markit Economics said in
an initial estimate today. Economists in a Bloomberg News survey
had forecast a reading of 50.5.  An index of manufacturing in China from HSBC Holdings Plc
and Markit Economics was at 49.7 for February, signaling factory
activity will shrink a fourth month as Europe’s sovereign-debt
crisis damps exports and the housing market cools. Readings
below 50 point to a contraction.  Oil’s rally in New York may stall after the 14-day relative
strength index climbed above 70, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. A reading higher than that level signals futures may
have risen too quickly and further gains probably aren’t
sustainable. Investors tend to sell contracts when prices are
considered overbought.  Debt Crisis  Agreement on a second bailout for  Greece  may not be enough
to end Europe’s debt crisis and countries in the euro-area
periphery must reduce debt and improve competitiveness, Bank of
England Deputy Governor Charlie Bean said in a speech yesterday
in Glasgow, Scotland.  Crude inventories in the U.S., the world’s biggest user of
the commodity, probably climbed to the highest level in almost
five months last week as rising North American output and the
planned reversal of the Seaway pipeline bolstered stockpiles, a
Bloomberg News survey showed.  Gasoline supplies declined  250,000 barrels , according to
the median of eight analyst estimates in the survey. Distillate
inventories, a category that includes diesel and heating oil,
probably fell 1.38 million barrels.  The Energy Department is scheduled to release its weekly
report at 11 a.m. tomorrow in  Washington , a day later than usual
because the government and financial markets were closed for the
Presidents’ Day holiday. The industry-funded  American Petroleum
Institute  will publish its own data today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  