-- Oil Search Plans to Obtain Gulf of Papua Partner in Mid-2012
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2012-02-21T04:43:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/oil-search-plans-to-obtain-gulf-of-papua-lng-partner-in-mid-2012.html
Oil Search Ltd. (OSH) ,  Papua New Guinea ’s
biggest oil producer, said it plans to obtain a partner in
mid-2012 to help develop fields that may underpin its second
liquefied natural gas development in the country.  Oil Search, partner in a $15.7 billion LNG venture in Papua
New Guinea led by  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , has found more than 30
prospects in the Gulf of Papua that may support another project,
the Port Moresby-based company said in a  presentation  today
after posting a 9 percent gain in full-year profit.  “We’re not an LNG operator,” Managing Director Peter Botten told reporters on a conference call. “To add credibility
to the venture we’re in discussions with a number of highly
credible, experienced LNG operators, who if they’re not in PNG,
are certainly looking at PNG.”  Oil Search is starting the largest drilling program in its
history and seeks to develop additional LNG processing units to
export the fuel to  Asia , the company said today. The Sydney-
listed oil producer is planning to spend $2.2 billion in Papua
New Guinea this year.  The company may have an initial view in late 2012 or early
2013 on whether it has enough gas to expand the Exxon-led
venture, according to its earnings statement. Oil Search and its
partners in that project may be able to make an investment
decision on a third processing unit in late 2013 or early 2014,
Botten said.  Oil Search has dropped 5 percent in the past year, compared
with the 13 percent slump in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.
The  stock  rose 2.1 percent to A$6.69 as of 3:34 p.m. local time.  Shell, Exxon  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Europe ’s largest oil company, is
among energy producers that have talked to the company about a
partnership in the Gulf of Papua, Oil Search said in August.
Botten today identified Shell, Exxon and  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  as
companies that may seek expansion opportunities in the country.  The Gulf resources may feed the LNG project already under
development in Papua New Guinea or underpin a new venture,
Botten said. The company said today it plans to drill at least
two of the prospects in the area in the last quarter of 2012.  Exxon’s PNG development, scheduled to start exports in
2014, will take gas from fields in the Southern Highlands and
Western provinces of the country by pipeline to a plant located
about 20 kilometers (12 miles) northwest of  Port Moresby .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 