-- Billionaire Okada Brings Winning Courtroom Record to Legal Fight With Wynn
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   V i n i c y   C h a n
-- 2012-02-21T09:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/okada-takes-court-experience-to-wynn-fight.html
Kazuo Okada, the Japanese
billionaire forced to sell his stake in  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  at a
discount, pledged to fight to protect his investment. He has a
history of winning lawsuits.  Okada’s  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425)  today reiterated a
vow to take legal action and yesterday called the sale
“outrageous,” in e-mailed statements. Wynn had accused Okada
of improper payments and said it was giving Universal a $1.9
billion promissory note for a stake worth $2.77 billion at the
market price.  The redemption comes after 69-year-old Okada’s lawsuit last
month demanding Wynn divulge information about a HK$1 billion
($129 million) donation to a university foundation in Macau,
home to its most profitable casino. With Okada as chairman,
Universal has prevailed in tax, patent and libel cases in  Japan 
over the past six years.  “Investors like the fact that Universal often sues, rather
than negotiate these disputes secretly, as so many other
companies do,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees $600 million
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo.  Okada, who got rich selling machines used in Japan’s 19.4
trillion yen ($243 billion) pachinko industry, has a record of
going to court and winning.  Court Wins  Aruze Corp., as Universal was previously called, won a 2008
tax case, a 2007 libel case and a favorable judgment in an
appeal by Japan Electric Amusement Machine Patent Association,
which in 2006 sued the company in a patent case.  “Okada and his associates will try every means to overrule
the forced redemption” by Wynn, said Victor Yip, an analyst at
UOB Kay Hian Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “The legal dispute is not going
to end here.”  Universal fell 0.3 percent to 1,511 yen as of the close of
trading in Tokyo trading today, after plunging 21 percent
yesterday, the biggest drop since listing in 1998. Wynn Resorts
was little changed at $112.69 as of Feb. 17 in  New York , where
markets were closed yesterday for a national holiday.  Wynn has scheduled a conference call today at 10 p.m., Hong
Kong time, to discuss its announcement of the forced redemption
of Universal’s holdings, according to the casino-operator’s
website.  Philippine Casino  The court clash puts more at stake than the value of
Universal’s 20 percent holding in the casino business founded by
 Stephen Wynn , now chairman. The Las Vegas-based casino
operator’s allegations against Okada included that he violated
U.S. anti-corruption laws and made cash payments to gambling
regulators in the Philippines, where Universal has broken ground
on a $2.3 billion hotel and casino resort as part of  Manila ’s
Entertainment City project.  Philippine Amusement and Gaming Corp. Chief Executive
Officer Cristino Naguiat, Jr. said the authority received no
cash or in kind payments from Okada, according to an e-mailed
statement from the gaming regulator today. The Universal
chairman visited the gaming authority, also known as PAGCOR,
yesterday and told Naguiat that the $110,000 in payments
referred to in the Wynn statement as improper were for business
associates’ accommodations, according to a PAGCOR statement
yesterday.  “Based on records of Okada’s group, the $110,000
represented various accommodations granted to Okada’s business
associates not only from the  Philippines  but from other
countries as well from 2008 to 2011,” Naguiat said in the
statement yesterday.  The case won’t affect Okada’s Manila investment “right
now,” PAGCOR said in an e-mailed statement today. “We believe
this issue is an intra-corporate battle between Mr. Kazuo Okada
and Mr.  Steve Wynn .”  Bankrolled Wynn  Wynn Resorts has said its running dispute with Okada
stemmed from Universal’s decision to compete by pursuing
projects in the Philippines. Okada, who helped bankroll Wynn’s
entry into the casino business, was removed as vice chairman
after admonishments from the board over the Philippine’s plan,
Wynn Resorts said.  Universal plans to open two casinos and three hotels in
Manila by next year and will decide by 2015 whether to build
more gambling venues in  Asia , Okada said in a September
interview. Okada has said he wants to expand into casinos as
sales of pachinko machines in Japan aren’t growing enough.  Universal gets 95 percent of revenue from sales of machines
for Japan’s pachinko parlors, where customers play a kind of
vertical pinball and amass steel balls to win prizes that can be
exchanged for cash to avoid the country’s prohibition on
gambling.  Universal  revenue  has fallen 7 percent in the five years
through March 31, 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Wynn sales almost  quadrupled  from 2006 to 2011, the data show.  Pachinko Fortune  Okada got into pachinko after selling his juke-box repair
business and using the proceeds to make pachinko machines for
children, according to a July 2000 interview published in
Japan’s Asahi newspaper.  He founded Universal Lease Co. Ltd. in 1969, which became
Aruze Corp. in 1998 before changing its name to Universal
Entertainment in November 2009, according to Wynn Resorts’
 website .  Forbes  put  Okada and his family at 564 on its list of the
world’s billionaires in March 2011, estimating their net worth
at that time at $2.1 billion. His Okada Holdings has a 68
percent stake in Universal, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  University Donation  While Okada vows legal action to protect his investment in
Wynn, he is also awaiting Wynn’s decision on whether to comply
with a suit requesting it divulge financial records related to
its HK$1 billion pledge to the University of Macau Development
Foundation.  Nevada  state court judge Elizabeth Gonzales said on
Feb. 9 that Wynn had until Feb. 23 to respond.  The request by Okada is about “good corporate
governance,” Gidon Caine, an attorney for Okada, said at the
time.  The legal battles between Okada and Wynn Resorts founder
Stephen Wynn have torn the partnership the two developed after
meeting in 2000.  Okada has said Wynn “had few backers, from his viewpoint,
and was looking for new ones,” in 2000 and that the decision
work together was almost “immediate.”  Okada, through Aruze, invested $452.5 million in Wynn
Resorts, according to a book the two wrote together. The
Japanese businessman has been on Wynn Resorts’ board since
October 2002, according to the Las Vegas casino company’s
website.  ‘Best Partner’  “I remember when Okada invested in Wynn,” said Takashi
Kiso, head of the Tokyo-based consulting firm International
Casino Institute Ltd. “At that time, Wynn mentioned that Okada
was the best partner and a promising entrepreneur. So it is a
pity to see the recent dispute.”  Wynn named the upscale restaurant in his casinos Okada,
while the Japanese billionaire said in December 2009 that the
roughly 50 billion yen he’d invested in Wynn had almost been
repaid in dividends alone.  Universal got 18.2 billion yen in dividends from its Wynn
Resorts stake in the fiscal year ended March 2011, according to
the pachinko-maker’s annual report.  The Japanese company may not receive $12.8 million in
dividends payable March 1, as it no longer owns the stake
following Wynn’s forced sale. Wynn declared a 50 cents a share
dividend on Feb. 2.  Wynn Probe  In accusing Okada of improper payments, Wynn referred to an
investigation it commissioned by Former Nevada Governor  Robert
Miller  and  Louis Freeh , the ex-director of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation . The probe showed Okada violated U.S. anti-
corruption laws and uncovered cash payments and gifts valued at
about $110,000 to Philippine gambling regulators, Wynn Resorts
said in its Feb. 19 statement on  Business Wire .  Wynn Resorts also filed suit against Okada, Aruze USA and
Universal Entertainment in  Clark County , Nevada, for breach of
fiduciary duty and related offenses, according to Wynn’s
statement Feb. 19. The filing couldn’t be confirmed
independently through electronic court records.  Casino companies sometimes end alliances because of
“entanglements” between owners, said Kiso of the International
Casino Institute. “This case is the biggest entanglement I
remember.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in  Tokyo  at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Vinicy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 vchan91@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  