-- Okada Put Gambling Official in $6,000 Suite, Wynn Says
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-02-22T04:16:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/okada-payments-to-gambling-officials-violated-u-s-bribery-law-wynn-says.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. accused Japanese
billionaire Kazuo Okada of putting up a  Philippines  gaming
regulator in a $6,000-a-day suite in Macau as part of a series
of payments that the company said appear to have violated U.S.
anti-bribery law.  Okada’s Universal Entertainment Corp. improperly gave more
than $110,000 in payments and gifts to two chief gambling
regulators in the Philippines and their families, according to a
report prepared for Wynn Resorts and filed Feb. 19 with a
lawsuit against Okada in state court in Nevada.  Okada, his associates and companies made three dozen
improper payments, including a four-day stay by a Filipino
regulator, Cristino Naguiat Jr., in the most expensive room at
Wynn Resorts Macau, according to a report by Freeh Sporkin &
Sullivan LLP. The room, known as Villa 81, covers 7,000 square
feet, the report said.  “Naguiat’s luxury stays at Wynn Resorts facilities were
fully known to Mr. Okada, who actively involved himself in some
of the arrangements,” according to the report, prepared by
former Federal Bureau of Investigation director  Louis Freeh .  Okada, who is developing a gaming business in the
Philippines, has been asked to step down as a director of Las
Vegas-based Wynn Resorts.  Escalating Dispute  The casino company claims that Okada, Universal and a
company controlled by Universal, Aruze USA Inc., breached their
duty to Wynn. On Feb. 19, Wynn forcibly redeemed Universal’s
19.7 percent stake in the company at a discount, escalating a
dispute between Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Wynn  and Okada,
who helped bankroll the casino company.  Universal said in a statement yesterday that while it
hadn’t been provided with a copy of the report, “we believe the
allegations leveled against Universal are motivated by self-
interest and represent the results of an incomplete and
otherwise flawed corporate governance process.”  Universal said Aruze USA would seek a court order to
prevent the redemption of the shares.  Okada visited the office of regulator Philippine Amusement
and Gaming Corp., or PAGCOR, in  Manila  on Feb. 20 and denied
making cash gifts, the regulator said in an e-mailed statement.  Okada told Naguiat, PAGCOR’s chairman, that the $110,000 in
gifts detailed in the report were “complimentary
accommodations” granted to Okada’s business associates from the
Philippines and other countries from 2008 to 2011, according to
the statement. The billionaire also apologized to the regulator
for including the agency and its officials in the dispute, it
said.  Industry Practice  There was “nothing inappropriate” about the
accommodations, Naguiat said in a phone interview. “It is
industry practice that if there are casino executives in town,
we offer cars, security and rooms as a courtesy, as a form of
reciprocity. This practice also happens in the  airline
industry .”  The 47-page Wynn report concludes that Okada, his company
and associates “appear to have engaged” in violations of the
U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in the Philippines and may
also have done so in  South Korea . The FCPA bars corrupt payments
to government officials for obtaining or retaining business.  “Based upon a multi-month investigation -- which
culminated with a personal interview that Okada long evaded --
Freeh uncovered substantial evidence of gross improprieties by
Okada and his agents,” Wynn Resorts said in its breach-of-
fiduciary-duty complaint.  Entertainment City  Since 2008, Okada and his associates have procured land and
a provisional gaming license to create an establishment known as
Entertainment City Manila. Okada is the chairman of Tokyo-based
Universal.  Wynn Resorts set up an account funded by deposits from
Okada or his company for “billing conveniences related to
charges at various Wynn Resorts locales,” according to the
Freeh report.  The report details 36 charges between May 2008 and June
2011 when Okada, his associates and companies made payments that
“directly benefited senior PAGCOR officials, including two
chairmen and their family members.” One payment, for $4,642,
benefited Jose Miguel “Mike” Arroyo, the husband of former
Philippines President  Gloria Arroyo , according to the report.  Freeh’s report details the September 2010 visit of Naguiat,
his wife, three children, nanny and other PAGCOR officials to
Wynn Resorts Macau. Naguiat was registered as “Incognito,”
which Freeh’s report said was “an attempt to hide the payment
of extremely costly expenses by a corporation connected with a
regulated entity.”  $20,000 Cash  Okada’s associates obtained $20,000 from the resort’s cash
cage as advances for Naguiat and his family, according to the
report. Okada also hosted a dinner at Wynn Macau for Naguiat and
about 13 others, charging the $1,673 to Okada’s room.  Naguiat said he had one dinner with Okada and the rest with
other casino executives whom he didn’t name.  “I never received $20,000; we didn’t receive any cash,”
he said. “I was told that the amount wasn’t supposed to be
charged to our rooms. It was a mischarge.”  The report details a Wynn Resorts board meeting in February
2011, when Okada said words to the effect of “in  Asia , it is
okay to give gifts to government officials,” and “I wouldn’t
bribe someone but would have someone else bribe that person.”  Okada Denial  In a Feb. 15 interview with Freeh’s investigators, Okada
denied making those statements. He admitted meeting with Naguiat
during his Wynn Macau stay and said they “did not discuss any
business at the dinner which would have been rude,” according
to the report.  Okada was never told the cost of Naguiat’s stay, “nor did
he ask anybody that question,” according to the report. He also
said one employee was fired and another resigned after a
scolding as a result of the stay.  The evidence about the stay, Freeh concluded, “cast
substantial doubt on Mr. Okada’s credibility.” His various
actions also gave the Wynn Resorts board “a factual basis to
review Mr. Okada’s continued suitability to be a major
shareholder and director,” according to the report.  Last month, Okada sued Wynn Resorts in state court in
 Nevada  to force the company to produce spending records. That
case is pending. Okada opposed Wynn Resorts’ HK$1 billion ($129
million) pledge in July 2011 to the University of Macau
Development Foundation.  ‘Fair Value’  Wynn Resorts has said the dispute stemmed from Okada’s
decision to compete by pursuing projects in the Philippines.
Okada was removed as vice chairman after admonishments from the
board over the plan, Wynn Resorts said. The company said that it
will recommend that he be dropped from the  board  of Wynn Macau
as well.  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has requested
information about Wynn’s donation to the university foundation.
Wynn was asked in an informal inquiry by the SEC’s Salt Lake
City office on Feb. 8 to preserve information about the
commitment, the company said in a Feb. 13 regulatory filing.  Wynn Resorts said in a statement that to protect the
company’s gambling licenses, it may redeem shares for “fair
value” from a person found “unsuitable” under its articles of
incorporation. An independent financial consultant helped
calculate the fair value, and Okada’s stake was redeemed at a
discount because of restrictions on the shares, Wynn said in the
statement.  ‘Unlawful Payments’  “Okada had made unlawful payments to foreign gaming
regulators who could advance Okada’s business interests,” Wynn
alleged in its complaint. “Okada surreptitiously undertook
these acts despite admonishments that all directors closely
adhere to company policy.”  Wynn climbed 6 percent to $119.40 yesterday in Nasdaq Stock
Market  trading . Universal Entertainment plunged the daily
maximum of 21 percent in  Tokyo  on Feb. 20, the first trading day
after Wynn filed its lawsuit.  Universal’s shares rose as much as 14 percent in Tokyo
today, the most on an intraday basis since Aug. 25, to 1,727 yen
and traded at 1,665 yen as of 12:57 p.m.  The case is  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  v. Okada, A-12-656710-B,
District Court,  Clark County , Nevada ( Las Vegas ). The earlier
case is Okada v. Wynn Resorts Ltd., A-12-654522-B, District
Court, Clark County, Nevada (Las Vegas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  