-- London’s New Offices May Not Lure Tenants on World Economy, EC Harris Says
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-21T11:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/london-office-projects-may-not-attract-tenants-ec-harris-says.html
London  developers may complete as
much as 53 million square feet of office space by 2016, though
they may struggle to find tenants before the properties are
built,  EC Harris LLP  said.  Leases for up to 70 million square feet of space are due to
expire before 2017, the London-based consulting firm said in the
 report  today. However, the global economy’s weakness may prompt
tenants to extend their current lease or move into an existing
building rather than paying more for new space, according to the
report.  The lack of demand for new buildings, combined with tighter
credit and a wave of job cuts by financial-services companies,
will prevent some developments from going ahead, EC Harris said.
More than 150 projects are planned, according to the firm.
Developers restarted office-tower construction in 2010, betting
tenants would choose new buildings when their leases ended.  Developers are “looking to put more people into their
offices as a way of giving themselves some form of market
advantage,” said Richard Taylor, head of commercial development
at EC Harris. “It allows tenants to take less space,”  More than 50 percent of the office pipeline through 2016 is
in the  City of London  financial district. Rents there fell 0.1
percent in January from December as buyers showed “anxiety”
about the prospects for rental growth in the short term,
Investment Property Databank Ltd. said in a Feb. 14 statement.
U.K. financial services companies eliminated 58,000 jobs last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  West End Plans  Planning constraints mean London’s  West End  has 9 million
square feet of new and refurbished space due to come onto the
market. The report said that some of that is likely to be
developed as homes because it’s a safer investment.  There will be opportunities for investors to modernize
office buildings because “relocating is disruptive, making the
’stay and refurbish’ option very attractive,” the report said.
About 15 percent of the pipeline of  office space  is
refurbishment space with “speed to market” crucial.  “It’s harder to find refurbishment projects in certain
locations and the existing buildings aren’t necessarily aligned
to present day requirements,” Taylor said by telephone.
“That’s where the imagination comes through from developers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net . 