-- OneSteel Gains on Switch in Focus to Iron Ore Unit: Sydney Mover
-- B y   S o r a y a   P e r m a t a s a r i
-- 2012-02-21T06:27:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/onesteel-gains-on-switch-in-focus-to-iron-ore-unit-sydney-mover.html
OneSteel Ltd. (OST)  gained the most in
more than two years in Sydney trading as  Australia ’s second-
biggest steelmaker said it’s switching focus to  iron ore  away
from its unprofitable steel unit.  The shares rose 12 percent to close at 82 Australian cents,
their biggest gain since April 3, 2009.  OneSteel is considering changing its name as it targets an
almost doubling of production from its iron ore unit that
accounts for about 40 percent of sales together with its mining
consumables business. The company today reported underlying
earnings of A$78 million ($84 million), beating its own guidance
of as much as A$75 million.  “One Steel’s mining assets may enable the company to turn
things around in the future,” Ben Le Brun, a market analyst at
Options Xpress said in a note after the result today. “This is
definitely moving in the right direction.”  OneSteel swung to a  net loss  of A$74 million in the six
months ended Dec. 31, from profit of A$116 million a year
earlier. The steel unit narrowed its loss with earnings before
interest and tax of A$75 million in the period amid weak
domestic demand, high raw material prices and the stronger
Australian dollar. It plans to cut 430 jobs at the unit before
June 30, adding to last year’s reduction of 300 employees and
170 contractors.  Mining will account for more than half its assets when iron
ore production reaches 11 million metric tons a year at full
capacity after June 2013, OneSteel Chief Executive Geoff Plummer
said on a call with reporters today. It plans to produce 6
million tons of iron ore this fiscal year.  “The benefit of our growth focus on our mining and mining
consumables businesses is clearly evident in our results,”
Plummer said in today’s statement. Still, the company has no
plans to exit the  steel industry .  The company said it is “confident” of its balance sheet
position as it has A$1 billion of undrawn facilities and
statutory gearing of 33.8 percent. It provided no update on
whether a share sale may be necessary which may be helping the
shares higher, Le Brun said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Soraya Permatasari in Melbourne at 
 soraya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  