-- Money Market Rate in China Snaps 6-Day Gain After Bank Reserve Ratios Cut
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-02-21T09:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/money-market-rate-in-china-snaps-6-day-gain-after-bank-reserve-ratios-cut.html
China ’s benchmark money-market rate
fell, snapping a six-day advance, on optimism the availability
of cash will improve after a cut in lenders’ reserve-requirement
ratios.  The People’s Bank of China said over the weekend that it
will reduce the proportion of cash that banks must set aside by
half a percentage point to 20.5 percent from Feb. 24. The
reduction may add 400 billion yuan ($64 billion) to the
financial system, according to ANZ Banking Group Ltd. The
monetary authority won’t sell any repurchase contracts or bills
today, according to a trader at a primary dealer required to bid
at the auctions.  “I expect that the liquidity injection from the reserve-
requirement-ratio cut will push repo rates down,” said Dariusz Kowalczyk, a strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong .
“Liquidity conditions will then ease in March,” he said,
adding that he was forecasting reserve ratios to be lowered by
another 200 basis points this year.  The  seven-day repurchase rate , a gauge of funding
availability in the financial system, fell 12 basis points to
5.25 percent in  Shanghai , according to a weighted average
compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The monetary authority has suspended sales of one-year and
three-month bills this year to help boost  money supply .  The one-year swap rate, the fixed cost to receive the
seven-day repurchase rate, rose one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 3.32 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The yield on the 3.93 percent government bonds due
August 2021 climbed one basis point to 3.53 percent today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 