-- Low-Cost Options ‘Collar’ Would Cut CO2 Risks, Jefferies Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-02-21T15:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/low-cost-collar-would-cut-co2-price-risk-jefferies-says.html
Power stations, factories and
airlines concerned that volatile carbon prices may boost their
compliance costs can use a low-cost options strategy to cut
price risks, said Jefferies Bache Ltd.  Emitters could buy a December call option at a strike price
of about 11 euros ($14.54) a ton and sell a  put option  at a
strike of about 7 euros, said Andrew Ager, head of carbon in
London at the unit of  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  In the so-called
collar, the price of the call at 1.25 euros a ton would almost
offset the revenue from selling the put at 1.10 euros, based on
data yesterday from ICE Futures  Europe  in London.  “At the moment we’re going through an exceptionally
volatile time,” Ager said today by phone. “Putting on a zero-
cost collar can bring peace of mind.”  EU allowances advanced 17 percent last week to 9.27 euros a
metric ton on speculation that policy makers will act to curb
excess supply after political parties in the European Parliament
committee on industry agreed to ask the bloc’s regulator to
propose setting aside, or withholding, some permits. UBS AG said
yesterday prices may fall to 3 euros, potentially around April,
because tightening the market will probably take years rather
than months.  “Although we still believe some EU emissions trading
system participants are misguided about the timeliness
surrounding the supply recalibration proposals, upside price
risk is still substantial as the market gets trigger happy every
time it hears the words set-aside,”  Matthew Gray , an analyst
for Jefferies Bache in London, said yesterday in a research
note.  Protection, Risk  EU carbon for December rose 3.8 percent today to 9.10 euros
on ICE as of 3:34 p.m.  Call options give the buyer the right to purchase at a set
level. Put options give the buyer the right to sell at a certain
price. Buying the call option offers protection if prices jump
beyond that level, Ager said.  The collar strategy is not without risk, he said. Should
prices drop fast, then the value of the sold put option can
surge. Yesterday, the price of the put with a 7 euro strike
jumped 8.9 percent as December futures declined 5.4 percent,
according to the ICE data.  Still, the collar strategy allows the compliance buyer to
benefit from some downside, while protecting against another
surge, Ager said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  