-- How the Iran Nuclear Standoff Looks From Turkey: Soli Ozel
-- B y   S o l i   O z e l
-- 2012-02-21T00:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/how-the-iran-nuclear-standoff-looks-from-turkey-commentary-by-soli-ozel.html
For two neighbors who don’t trust
each other and for centuries were engaged in fierce strategic
and religious competition, it is remarkable that Sunni  Turkey 
and Shiite  Iran  haven’t gone to war over their border since
1639. As Turkish leaders walk a diplomatic tightrope over
U.S.-led efforts to pressure Iran into abandoning a suspected
nuclear-weapons program, their overriding priority is to keep
it that way.  Relations between the two former imperial powers became
particularly strained after the 1979 Iranian Revolution, which
pitted a radical theocratic model of government against the
fiercely secular one that Turkey embraced under Mustafa Kemal
Ataturk. Turks complained frequently of Iranian perfidy and
subversive activities they alleged Iran was pursuing inside
Turkey, including occasional support for the separatist
Kurdistan Workers’ Party, or PKK. And yet, Turkey remained
strictly neutral during the 1980-1988  Iran-Iraq War  and the
two neighbors continued to cooperate when necessary.  So when, in 2010, some commentators and legislators in
 Washington  began accusing Turkey of abandoning its North
Atlantic Treaty Organization allies and “turning east” to join
an ideologically driven “axis” with the Islamic Republic of
Iran, Turks were dumbfounded. They saw the American analysis
as a facile, ahistorical take on their positions vis-a-vis
Iran’s nuclear program, as well as on their efforts to build
bridges with Syria and Hamas.  Double Trouble  Two events in quick succession triggered the debate in
Washington. On May 31, 2010, Israeli commandos boarded a
Turkish ship as it sought to break through Israel’s naval
blockade of Gaza. In the fight that followed, eight Turks and
a Turkish-American were shot dead, triggering a bitter rupture
in relations between America’s two closest allies in the
region. Then, on June 9, Turkey voted against the U.S. in the
 United Nations Security Council , on a  resolution  that imposed
further sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program.  To some Americans, Turkey seemed to be picking Iran’s
side in its long-running struggle against the U.S. and  Israel .
Turks, for their part, also felt betrayed. It was Turks,
rather than Israelis, after all, who died on board the Mavi
Marmara aid ship. And Turkey voted against sanctions in the
 Security Council , because Turkish and Brazilian diplomats had
only a few weeks earlier succeeded -- in line with a letter
from U.S. President  Barack Obama  -- in persuading Iran to
accept a nuclear- swap deal  that was designed to help restart
talks on the broader Iranian nuclear program. Turks believed
they had scored a breakthrough. Their allies didn’t agree.  There followed a torrent of frenzied articles, in the
U.S. and elsewhere, questioning Turkey’s strategic loyalties.
Observers, unhappy with Turkey’s increasingly assertive and
autonomous foreign policies, alleged that the country was
turning its back on the West. Events seemed to bear out their
long-held suspicion that Turkey’s ruling  Justice and
Development Party , which has Islamist roots, remains
ideologically committed to an anti-Western agenda.  That Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  called
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  “a friend,” and
dismissed worries about  Iran’s nuclear program  as “hearsay,”
provided material on which to build the case. But the approach
betrays a stupefying lack of interest in analyzing the
underlying rationale of Turkish foreign policy on Iran, as
well as a tendency to dismiss the national interests of
regional powers.  Increasing Trade  Trade  between the two neighbors rose to $16 billion in
2011 from $1 billion in 2000, most of it reflecting rising
oil-and-gas imports by Turkey. Iran generally provides 30
percent of Turkey’s oil supply and a third of its total
natural-gas imports, saving Turkey from almost total
dependence on  Russia . More than 70,000 Turkish trucks go
through Iran to take goods to and from Central Asian republics
each year. Both sides often cooperated in their fights against
Kurdish separatists.  With such interests at stake, Turkey objected to the
imposition of harsher sanctions against Iran. To protect
valuable commercial ties, Turkish negotiators worked
tirelessly to keep diplomatic options open. But to the
discomfort of its Western allies, Turkey also consistently
raised the issue of Israel’s undeclared nuclear arsenal,
insisting that the debate over Iran’s program should be
conducted with a view to a nuclear-free  Middle East .  Turkey has no interest in having a nuclear-armed Iran as
its neighbor. It is cognizant that this would trigger a race
to acquire nuclear weapons by Iran’s foes in the Arab world.
Nuclear arms, plus increasingly sophisticated missile systems,
would also tilt the balance of power between two neighbors of
similar size in favor of Iran.  Yet Turkey has even less enthusiasm for war, waged by
either Israel or the U.S. It believes a diplomatic solution to
the nuclear standoff can still be found, if the Iranians are
given a return ticket to the international system and a
normalization of relations with the U.S. On the other hand,
the Turkish authorities increasingly are worried about the
fragmented nature of the Iranian regime and the growing clout
of the  Revolutionary Guard Corps .  The preference for a diplomatic solution to the Iran
nuclear dispute continues, even after a sharpening of the age-
old competition between Iran and Turkey following the Arab
revolts and the U.S. withdrawal from  Iraq . These developments
have triggered a rapprochement with officials in Washington
and have exposed talk of a “shift of axis” for the fallacy
that it is.  Competition Over Iraq  U.S. withdrawal has allowed Iran to firm its grip on
Iraq, and tensions between Sunnis and Shiites are rising. Iran
is a natural patron of Iraq’s Shiite majority, and despite
efforts to stay above the sectarian fray, Turkey is seen as
siding with Iraq’s Sunni leaders. Partly as a consequence of
this trend, relations between Turkey and the Shiite-dominated
government in  Baghdad  have deteriorated considerably and
Turkish influence in non-Kurdish areas of Iraq has declined.  But the most important area of competition between the
Iranian and Turkish capitals is  Syria . In the course of the
last nine years, Turkey made a substantial political
investment in building relations with the Syrian regime --
partly with an eye to luring President Bashar al-Assad away
from Iran. Syria is a big prize in the regional contest for
hegemony. That investment was incinerated, however, when
Erdogan failed to persuade Assad to respond to protesters and
open up Syria’s political system.  Forced to choose, the Turkish government sided with the
mainly Sunni Syrian opposition, whose largest organization,
the  Syrian National Council , has since set up its headquarters
in Istanbul. A commander of the Free Syrian Army is among the
refugees who live in camps in Turkey. Iran, by contrast,
unequivocally supports the Assad regime, which comes
predominantly from the Alawite sect, and has been harshly
critical of Turkey’s position.  As they wrestle with each other in Iraq and Syria, the
Turkish and Iranian foreign ministers shuttle back and forth
between their capitals, declaring eternal friendship. In a
similar pas de deux, Turkey continues to play a role in
attempting to mediate the nuclear impasse, while Iran still
appears to need its neighbor’s good offices in rekindling
negotiations with Western powers. As time goes by, that dance
is getting harder to sustain.  (Soli Ozel is a professor of international relations at
Kadir Has University and a columnist for Haberturk newspaper.
This is the fifth in a series of op-ed articles about Iran,
from writers in countries that have a direct interest in the
escalating debate over how to rein in its alleged nuclear
weapons program. Read Part 1, Part 2, Part 3 and Part 4.                     The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Soli Ozel at  soli@khas.edu.tr   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Marc Champion at  mchampion7@bloomberg.net  