-- Pantaloon Unit Plans to Add Stores for Young Indian Shoppers
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-02-21T11:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/pantaloon-unit-plans-to-add-stores-for-young-indian-shoppers-1-.html
Future Value Retail Ltd., a
subsidiary of India’s largest retailer  Pantaloon Retail India
Ltd. (PF) , plans to open at least 65 new stores in 18 months as
consumer demand and retail sales in the nation grow.  The company plans to add 40 Big Bazaar supermarkets and 25
Fashion@Big Bazaar clothing stores, Chief Executive Officer
Sadashiv Nayak said in an interview on Feb. 17, without
specifying how much the company would invest in the expansion.  Adding multiple stores in cities will help consumers move
to modern retail stores, Nayak said. “As the country becomes
younger, we will soon experience a generation which will say out
of five visits to the market three should be to modern trade,”
he said.  India’s retail market, which is estimated to grow to 26
trillion rupees ($529 billion) in 2014 from 16.9 trillion rupees
in 2010, according to a January report by Netscribes India Pvt.,
is dominated by small family run stores. Organized retail
accounts for about 5 percent of the total Indian market,
according to the Associated Chambers of Commerce and Industry of
India.  “The management has clearly indicated its mandate of
adding space in the formats that require lower investment and
have a higher churn,” analysts Bharat Chhoda and Dhvani Modi of
ICICIDirect wrote in a note on Feb. 16. “This move will enable
the company to achieve topline growth and also reduce the
working  capital requirements .”  Selling Fashion  Most of the new stores will be in large or so-called Tier I
cities, which contribute to about 70 percent of the company’s
 business , Nayak said. The retailer sees an opportunity for
selling fashion in smaller cities, he said.  “When you move to the Tier II and Tier III towns, there
aren’t enough options for people to buy fashion,” he said.
“Tier III is where we need to discover the new engine of
growth. They will never be the core engine for growth today, but
we’re investing for two years down.”  The retailer operates 160 Big Bazaars, more than 200 Food
Bazaars, 65 Pantaloons outlets and 21 Central departmental
stores. They also have more than 20 standalone Fashion@Big
Bazaar stores. The Mumbai-based company added 19 Big Bazaars and
six standalone Fashion@Big Bazaar outlets in the 12 months ended
June 2011, according to Pantaloon’s  annual report .  Pantaloon rose 1.6 percent to 193.4 rupees at the close in
Mumbai trading. The stock has gained 50 percent since the
beginning of this year and the benchmark BSE India Sensitive
Index gained 19 percent.  ‘Becoming Younger’  Higher consumption and urbanization will encourage the
growth of retail in the country, Nayak said.  “The country is becoming younger and we are seeing people
move to cities,” he said. “We’re seeing a need for people to
express their affluence through clothes or their homes. There is
the ability to consume more food. The need to eat more, and many
more cuisines, is surely now becoming a part of life in Tier I
and Tier II towns.”  India ’s consumer spending is likely to almost quadruple by
2020 to $3.6 trillion spurred by economic growth and rising
incomes, the  Boston Consulting Group  said in a report this
month. The expenditure is set to expand from $991 billion in
2010, according to the report.  High interest costs eroded  earnings  for Pantaloon in the
three months ended Dec. 31, and the company posted a loss of
79.6 million rupees in the period, compared with a profit of 124
million rupees a year earlier. Pantaloon plans to offer
promotions to customers to boost sales, and may exit its non-
core businesses to lower its  debt , the company said in a  note  to
investors after its earnings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  