-- Paulson Fund Sued Over Sino-Forest Losses
-- B y   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   L a u r e n c e   V i e l e   D a v i d s o n
-- 2012-02-21T20:16:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/paulson-fund-sued-over-sino-forest-losses.html
John Paulson ’s $23 billion hedge
fund was sued by an investor over Paulson & Co.’s reported $468
million losses in  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE)  last year.  Hugh Culverhouse seeks class-action status on behalf of all
investors who lost money in the hedge fund, according to a
complaint filed today in federal court in Miami.  “Defendants breached their fiduciary duties by conducting
a grossly negligent due diligence analysis of Sino-Forest’s
business operations that did not analyze the substantial risks
of holding a near-billion-dollar investment in a forestry
company based in  China ,” Culverhouse said in his complaint.  Sino-Forest’s shares dropped more than 80 percent in June
when Carson Block’s Muddy Waters LLC said the Hong Kong-based
company overstated its timber holdings. Sino-Forest denied the
allegations.  Paulson & Co., based in  New York , told clients in a June
letter that it lost C$462 million since the end of May on its
Sino-Forest investment. The hedge fund had held 31 million
shares of Sino-Forest in May, or 12.5 percent of outstanding
stock, and had sold its entire stake as of June 17, according to
the letter.  “The lawsuit filed by Hugh Culverhouse against Paulson &
Co. is without merit,” the company said in a statement. “As in
all our investments, Paulson has access to the same information
that everyone else in the securities markets does. Like other
public market investors, we must rely on audits and underwriter
due diligence for comfort that financial statements and
disclosures are accurate and reflect the true state of affairs
at companies with publicly traded securities.”  Paulson said on a July 21 investor call that he would hire
a specialist in  Hong Kong  after losses tied to Sino-Forest, two
people briefed on the matter said that month.  The net realized loss on the investment since Paulson first
bought Sino-Forest was C$105 million, according to today’s
company statement.  The case is Culverhouse v. Paulson & Co., 12-cf-20695, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Florida  (Miami).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in New York at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Laurence Viele Davidson in Atlanta  at 
 lviele@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  