-- Peugeot Is In Talks With General Motors on Possible Alliance; Shares Surge
-- B y   A l e x   W e b b   a n d   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2012-02-22T21:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/peugeot-says-it-s-in-talks-about-alliances-after-report-on-gm.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  and  PSA Peugeot
Citroen (UG)  are in talks to form a broad partnership as the two
automakers struggle with declining car sales in Europe.  The alliance may include developing engines and building
vehicles together in the region, a person familiar with the
discussion said today, declining to be identified because the
talks aren’t public. Peugeot  rose  the most in almost three
years.  GM, the world’s largest carmaker, is looking for ways to
turn around its unprofitable Opel brand, while Peugeot is
seeking to stem a growing debt load. Peugeot’s 2011 sales in the
region plunged 8.8 percent to 1.68 million vehicles. GM’s
dropped 1.9 percent to 1.17 million. Auto executives expect
deliveries in the region to shrink in 2012 for a fifth year.  “A partnership with GM would make sense, because Peugeot
and Opel both lack scale,” said Sascha Gommel, a Frankfurt-
based Commerzbank analyst with a “hold” rating on Peugeot
shares, adding that  Fiat (F)  SpA is also a potential partner.  Peugeot shares gained 1.74 euros, or 12 percent, to 16.13
euros as of the close of trading in Paris. The stock has  slumped 
44 percent over the last 12 months, bringing its market value to
3.77 billion euros ($5 billion). GM fell 1.9 percent to $26.55
at the close in  New York .  GM Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson declined to comment
to reporters at a Habitat for Humanity event in Detroit. Klaus- Peter Martin, a GM spokesman, said earlier “we routinely talk
with others in the industry” while not commenting beyond that.
Jonathan Goodman, a Peugeot spokesman, reiterated comments the
Paris-based carmaker made last night that it was in discussions
on possible partnerships without providing specifics.  Borrowed Shares  About 6.8 percent of Peugeot’s stock, the second-highest in
the European auto sector after Fiat, has been lent out,
according to  Data Explorers  in  London , most likely to
speculators who are betting the shares will fall. In a short
sale, traders borrow securities to sell them on expectations
they will be able to buy them back at a cheaper price.  Peugeot Chief Executive Officer Philippe Varin informed
French Labor Minister Xavier Bertrand of the talks yesterday,
Bertrand said in an interview with radio station Europe1 today.  Varin said last week that the company was willing to
investigate partnerships as long as they were in line with the
group’s strategy, including expansion outside Europe, and
contributed synergies while maintaining Peugeot’s independence.  Peugeot, Europe’s second-biggest automaker after Volkswagen
AG, announced plans last week to sell 1.5 billion euros in
assets to reduce debt, which widened to 3.4 billion euros as
profit and sales fell.  CDS Drop  Should the outcome of talks with Detroit-based GM be
positive, an accord may be announced at the Geneva car show the
first week of March, French newspaper La Tribune reported last
night, adding that the discussing have been going on for several
months.  Peugeot’s credit-default swaps fell 46.5 basis points today
to a two-week low of 461, a 9 percent decline, according to CMA
prices. A decline in credit-default swap prices indicates an
improvement in perceptions of creditworthiness.  A basis point on a default swap protecting 10 million euros
of debt for five years is equivalent to 1,000 euros a year. CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc., compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Opel Losses  GM, which last week posted a record annual net income of
$9.19 billion for 2011, is planning more cost cuts for its
unprofitable European unit after the last turnaround plan failed
to end losses there.  The automaker’s  Europe  business, including the Opel brand,
lost $747 million last year before taxes and interest. While
that’s an improvement from $1.95 billion lost in 2010, GM had
planned to break even in the region until November, when it
pulled back the forecast as the European outlook worsened.  Peugeot, whose origins date back to the early 19th century
laminated steel- and toolmaker Peugeot-Frères et Jacques
Maillard-Salins, is still 30 percent owned by the Peugeot
family, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The company’s current chairman Thierry Peugeot is the
great-grandson of Eugene, who jointly led the company with his
cousin Armand when it produced its first automobile in 1891.
Thierry is joined on the board by relatives Roland, Robert and
Jean-Philippe Peugeot, and Marie-Helene Roncoroni.  Blackrock Inc. last year became the second-largest investor
with 5 percent, according to a regulatory filing.  Consolidation Needed  Fiat isn’t currently in talks with Peugeot, a person
familiar with the matter said today, declining to be identified
discussing a private topic.  Fiat CEO  Sergio Marchionne  said last month in Detroit he’s
willing to participate in industry consolidation in Europe and
would consider adding a third partner before a planned merger
between Fiat and U.S. automaker Chrysler Group LLC.  Carmakers in Europe need to consolidate to compete with VW,
which had a market share in the region of 23.3 percent last
year, Marchionne said Jan. 10. He said at the time that Fiat
wasn’t discussing with Peugeot or other potential partners,
including GM’s Opel unit, though he wouldn’t close the door on
any eventual alliances.  Fiat held talks with Peugeot after the 2008 financial
crisis regarding a possible combination, a person familiar with
the matter said. Negotiations failed because the Peugeot family
didn’t want to lose control over the carmaker, the person said.  Peugeot, whose carmaking division missed a target of
breaking even in 2011, said Feb. 15 it will sell property as
well as a holding in the Gefco trucking unit that has yet to be
determined. The disposals include the Citer vehicle-rental unit
that Peugeot sold to Enterprise Holdings Inc. on Feb. 1 for 440
million euros.  Earnings before interest, taxes and one-time gains or costs
fell to 1.32 billion euros in 2011 from 1.8 billion euros a year
earlier, Peugeot said last week. The company’s deliveries
globally fell 1.5 percent to 3.5 million vehicles in 2011, led
by the drop in Europe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Webb in Frankfurt at 
 awebb25@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Higgins in  Detroit  at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net ;
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  