-- Polish Interest-Rate Increase More Likely in First Half, Bratkowski Says
-- B y   K a t y a   A n d r u s z   a n d   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 2012-02-21T16:17:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/polish-interest-rate-increase-more-likely-in-first-half-bratkowski-says.html
A Polish  interest-rate  increase
before July is becoming more probable as economic growth this
year outpaces the government’s forecasts, monetary policy maker
Andrzej Bratkowski said.  Gross domestic product may increase 3.5 percent in 2012,
Bratkowski said in an interview yesterday in Warsaw, compared
with the government’s estimate of 2.5 percent.  Poland ’s  economy ,
the only one in the European Union to escape a recession in
2009, expanded 4.3 percent last year as grants to the 27-member
bloc’s poorer members spurred infrastructure investment while a
weaker zloty helped exports.  “The question is less and less whether, and more and more
when to raise rates,” Bratkowski said. “It’s getting more
likely that a rate hike will be necessary in the first half of
the year.”  While policy makers from the  European Central Bank  to
 Brazil  have cut interest rates over recent months in an effort
to stimulate economic growth, the Narodowy Bank Polski has left
its  seven-day interest rate  at 4.5 percent since June. The bank
raised borrowing costs by 1 percentage point in the first half
of last year as inflation accelerated to a decade-high 5
percent, double the central bank’s target.  Output Acceleration  Industrial output grew 9 percent in January from the year-
earlier period, the fastest pace since February 2011. Poland’s
purchasing managers’ index rose for the first time in three
months in January, indicating greater confidence in the economy.  After weeks of wrangling, Greece reached an agreement with
its private creditors, paving the way for an accord with other
European governments on a 130 billion euro ($173 billion)
bailout. Investors will forgive 53.5 percent of their principal
and exchange their remaining holdings for new Greek  government
bonds  and notes from the European Financial Stability Facility,
helping to reduce Greece’s debt burden by 107 billion euros,
about half the country’s estimated output for 2011.  The accord will bolster investor confidence and may limit
the effect Europe’s debt crisis will have on slowing economic
growth, Bratkowski said.  “We can expect that growth in Poland will be higher
because we don’t expect any dramatic slowdown in the EU’s
economy,” Bratkowski said. This will result in higher market
confidence in Poland, “which means the zloty will probably be
stronger and the profitability of bonds will be lower, which
will support our fiscal consolidation plans.”  Currency Moves  The Polish currency has strengthened 6.9 percent against
the euro this year, the third-best performance of some 170
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The zloty, which dropped 11
percent in the second half of last year, was “undervalued” and
is “returning to its correct level,” Jan Krzysztof Bielecki,
who heads Prime Minister Donald Tusk’s council of economic
advisers, said in an interview last week.  Investors are still expecting rate cuts, according to
forward-rate agreements, which investors use to fix borrowing
costs in the future. The gap between nine-month forward-rate
agreements and the main  interbank rate  is 24 basis points.  Not ‘Fantastic’  The currency’s gains helped slow inflation to 4.1 percent
in January from 4.6 percent the month before, the gauge
remaining above the central bank’s target of 2.5 percent for a
16th month. It’s “fairly unlikely” that inflation will return
to the goal without rate increases, Bratkowski said. The zloty
fell to 4.1808 against the euro as of 4:50 p.m. in Warsaw from
4.1701 yesterday.  The central banker’s views contrast with comments made
yesterday by Governor Marek Belka, who said that while inflation
is too high, this is mainly due to imported goods such as fuel.
Oil traded near a nine-month high today after euro-area finance
ministers agreed on a bailout package for  Greece , potentially
boosting fuel demand.  “The January inflation figures weren’t fantastic,”
Bratkowski said, noting that the data were in line with policy
makers’ predictions that price growth would slow. “The zloty’s
appreciation gives us more time to observe developments, but
this state of affairs can’t continue for too long. With each
month that goes by, there is less room to simply monitor the
situation and more need to take a decision on interest rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net ;
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  