-- Polish Rates May Rise as Slowdown Threat Fades, Bratkowski Says
-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l   a n d   K a t y a   A n d r u s z
-- 2012-02-21T10:04:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/polish-rates-may-rise-as-slowdown-threat-fades-bratkowski-says.html
The Polish central bank may be
forced to raise  borrowing costs  as early as the first half of
this year as inflation remains above target and the economy is
set to grow faster than the government expects,  Monetary Policy 
Council member Andrzej Bratkowski said.  Bratkowski spoke in an interview yesterday in Warsaw.  On economic growth:  “Recent weeks have given us evidence that we shouldn’t
fear any dramatic slowdown in the European Union. That changes
Poland’s expectations entirely, much improving the outlook for
our economic performance. Apart from the better-than-expected
situation in the EU, Polish data also support the view that
we’re unlikely to see a sharp slowdown which would justify
interest-rate cuts. We can expect GDP growth of about 3.5
percent in 2012. But it’s becoming increasingly likely that we
won’t see an economic slowdown in  Poland  at all.”  On inflation:  “The January inflation figures weren’t fantastic; after
all, we’d predicted that inflation would slow down from January
even without the zloty appreciation we’ve been observing. So we
can say that inflation was in line with our expectations. The
decline in the inflation rate means the danger of it continuing
to grow has receded, and increases the probability that it will
move toward the 2.5 percent target in the next three quarters.
In my opinion, though, if economic growth stays above 4 percent,
it’s fairly unlikely that inflation will return to the target
without rate increases.”  Monetary policy:  “Poland’s strong economic growth justifies the Monetary
Policy Council’s ‘wait-and-see’ stance. It’s true that the
zloty’s appreciation gives us more time to observe developments,
but this state of affairs can’t continue for too long. With each
month that goes by, there is less room to simply monitor the
situation and more need to take a decision on  interest rates .
After the latest economic data, which diminish fears about an
economic slowdown, I’d assess the probability of MPC’s next
decisions as follows: 50 percent that interest rates remain
unchanged; 40 percent that they’re raised and 10 percent that
they’re cut. In my opinion, the question is less and less
whether and more and more when to raise rates. It’s getting more
likely that a rate hike will be necessary in the first half of
the year.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net 
Katya Andrusz at 
 kandrusz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  