-- Rajoy Calls for Calm After Protests, Defends Labor Overhaul
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-02-21T16:29:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/rajoy-calls-for-calm-after-protests-defends-labor-overhaul.html
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy 
called for “calm” after students and police clashed at an
anti-austerity rally and said he would stick to an overhaul of
 labor rules  following nationwide protests.  “It’s time for calm and responsibility, and of course we
mustn’t project an image abroad that doesn’t reflect our
country,” Rajoy told reporters at a news conference with U.K.
Prime Minister  David Cameron  in  London  today.  El Pais  and El Mundo newspapers showed pictures today of
police with riot gear and truncheons pinning one demonstrator to
the floor and handcuffing another bleeding youth at a protest in
Valencia. Rajoy said police have “a function to fulfill” just
as the students have the right to protest.  Rajoy, in power since December, is trying to convince
investors and voters he can face down opposition to overhaul the
economy and implement the deepest budget cuts in at least three
decades. Tens of thousands of people demonstrated across  Spain 
on Feb. 19 in protests organized by unions against a decree that
lowers firing costs and makes it easier for firms to reduce
wages.  Rajoy, who has a parliamentary majority, said the
government wouldn’t change the law that aims to bring down the
23 percent unemployment rate. The decree, approved by the
Cabinet on Feb. 10, is making its way through Parliament as a
bill with the government seeking support from other parties.
While unions have criticized it, the main CEOE business group
has praised the legislation.  “I think the decisions we have taken are just and
equitable, and when growth starts they will help to create
jobs,” he said. “The government has to defend the common
interest and to work for growth and jobs.”  Spain’s economy is edging into its second recession in as
many years and the Bank of Spain expects the economy to contract
1.5 percent this year amid deeper austerity measures. The
 unemployment rate  is the highest in the European Union and among
 young people  amounts to 49 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  