-- Rand Weakens First Day in Three as Yields Advance on Europe Growth Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-21T12:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/rand-bonds-decline-on-concerns-greece-s-bailout-deal-won-t-stop-recession.html
The rand weakened against the dollar
for the first time in three days on concern a bailout deal for
 Greece  won’t be enough to stave off a recession in the euro
region, damping demand for  South Africa ’s exports.  South Africa’s currency depreciated 0.9 percent to 7.7472
per dollar as of 1:48 p.m. in Johannesburg, the worst
performance out of more than 20 emerging-market currencies
monitored by Bloomberg. It fell 0.6 percent to 10.2280 per euro.
Bonds retreated for the first time in three days.  European finance ministers awarded Greece 130 billion euros
($173 billion) in aid by tapping into European Central Bank
profits and coaxing investors into providing more debt relief to
shield the region from a default. Africa’s biggest economy will
probably expand less than 3 percent this year as fiscal problems
in  Europe , South Africa’s biggest trading partner, sap demand
for exports, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said on Jan. 26.  “There was a huge build-up to the finalisation of the
deal, and now that it has happened, the question is: what’s
next?”, Ian Cruickshanks, head of treasury strategic research
at Johannesburg-based Nedbank Group Ltd., said by phone. The
deal hasn’t removed concerns about euro-zone growth, he added.  Gordhan, who will give updated forecasts in his budget
speech tomorrow, said in October the economy would grow 3.4
percent this year. Gross domestic product expanded an annualized
1.4 percent in the third quarter, close to a two-year low.  ‘Die Another Day’  “The bailout simply means that Greece lives to die another
day,”  John Cairns , a currency strategist at Rand Merchant Bank
in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “The market has
responded with a big yawn; after weeks of anxiously waiting, the
deal is an anti-climax.”  The euro-region economy, which buys 22 percent of South
Africa’s exports, contracted in the fourth quarter for the first
time in 2 1/2 years as the region’s debt crisis undermined
confidence and forced governments from  Spain  to Greece to
toughen budget cuts. GDP in the 17-nation euro area fell 0.3
percent from the prior three months, the first drop since the
second quarter of 2009.  Bonds dropped today on concern South Africa’s government
borrowing requirement will rise as economic growth fails to meet
projections, cutting into  tax revenue , and as Transnet SOC Ltd.,
the state-owned rail and ports operator, sells bonds to pay for
a 300 billion rand ($39 billion) infrastructure plan.  Budget Speech  Gordhan will probably forecast a shortfall of 5.4 percent
of gross domestic product in the year through March 2013 in his
budget speech tomorrow, according to the median estimate of 10
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The market will, in the short term at least, be focused
on supply guidance in tomorrow’s Budget speech,”  George Glynos ,
an economist at Johannesburg-based ETM Analytics, wrote in e-
mailed comments today. “The market will be watching”
Transnet’s borrowing “to see how this fits into the already
budgeted borrowing requirement going forward,” he added.  Investors were more pessimistic about South African debt
than other  emerging markets  in the past six months. The cost to
protect the country’s debt against non-payment for five years
increased 43 basis points, or 0.43 percentage point, to 179 over
the period, according to data provider CMA. Mexico swaps dropped
19 basis points, while  Brazil ’s declined 27 and  Russia ’s gained
8 during the same period.  The yield on South Africa’s 103 billion rand of 10.5
percent bonds due 2026 rose two basis points, or 0.02 percentage
point, to 8.23 percent. The nation’s $1.5 billion of 4.665
percent notes due 2024 fell, driving the yield up eight basis
points to 4.31 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold the South African
securities over U.S. Treasuries of similar maturity widened one
basis point to 2.26 percentage points. The spread has narrowed
from 2.7 percentage points when the notes were first sold on
Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  