-- RBA Sees Scope for Further Australian Rate Cuts on Europe Crisis: Economy
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-02-21T06:11:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/rba-says-rates-appropriate-with-scope-for-easing-minutes-show.html
Australia ’s central bank said it has
scope to ease monetary policy if needed, after keeping the
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged this month as risks in Europe
abated, minutes of its Feb. 7 meeting showed.  Policy makers “judged that if demand conditions were to
weaken materially, the inflation outlook would provide scope for
a further easing in monetary policy,” the minutes released
today by the Sydney-based  Reserve Bank of Australia  showed.
“While the financial situation in Europe remained fragile, the
likelihood of an extremely bad outcome seemed to have diminished
somewhat.”  Australia’s dollar fell after the minutes showed the RBA is
maintaining “an easing bias,” according to  Sue Trinh , a senior
currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada in  Hong Kong . The
central bank unexpectedly held rates at 4.25 percent this month
after two quarter-percentage-point reductions late last year
helped the economy weather Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis, which
showed signs of easing today as debt-stricken Greece won a
second bailout.  Governor  Glenn Stevens  and his board noted in today’s
minutes that last quarter’s rate cuts “had been passed through
to most lending rates in the economy, which were now around
average levels.”  Since the meeting, Australia’s four biggest banks raised
their standard variable mortgage rates independently from the
RBA, drawing criticism from the government. The central bank
said that competition for deposits, recent covered bond sales,
and the cost of swapping funds raised offshore into Australian
dollars had added to the price lenders paid to raise money.  ‘Narrowed the Difference’  “Collectively, these developments had increased banks’
overall cost of funding relative to the cash rate and had
narrowed the difference between banks’ lending rates and funding
costs,” policy makers said in the minutes.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia  increased the interest on a
variable-rate home loan by 10 basis points to 7.41 percent last
week, followed by National Australia Bank Ltd., which added 9
basis points to 7.31 percent. Westpac Banking Corp. boosted the
cost by 10 basis points to 7.46 percent on Feb. 10, after
Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. added 6 basis points
to 7.36 percent. ANZ Bank and Westpac cited higher debt premiums
and competition for deposits.  Funding costs for banks haven’t fallen as much as the 50
basis points in cuts to the central  bank rate , Stevens said in
Sydney today, responding to questions after a panel discussion
at the ASIC Summer School 2012. Banks have responded to that
fact, he said.  Aussie Falls  Australia’s currency fell 0.2 percent to $1.0735 as of 4:57
p.m. in Sydney from yesterday, when it rose 0.5 percent. The so-
called Aussie trimmed declines after euro-area officials reached
agreement on providing  Greece  with a second rescue package.  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region, Hong Kong may say
today its  unemployment rate  was unchanged at 3.3 percent in
January, according to the median of 12 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  In Europe,  Switzerland ’s trade surplus probably widened in
January, while a  consumer confidence  index may show Danish
consumers became more pessimistic this month, surveys predict.
 Turkey ’s central bank will probably keep its benchmark rate
unchanged at 5.75 percent, all nine economists surveyed by
Bloomberg said.  Euro-area consumer confidence was probably little changed
this month with an index reading at minus 20.1 compared with
minus 20.7 in January, according to a Bloomberg survey ahead of
a release by the European Commission in Brussels today.  Rate Pause  The Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago’s National Activity
Index probably rose to 0.22 in January from 0.17 in December,
according to the median of five estimates by Bloomberg.  This month’s rate pause in Australia spurred the currency,
which reached a six-month high of $1.0845 following the decision
and has appreciated about 5 percent this year. The improvement
in the global and domestic economies prompted investors to pare
bets on a rate cut next month to 32 percent, according to a
Credit Suisse Group AG index.  “With growth expected to be close to trend and inflation
consistent with the target, the board considered that this
setting was appropriate for the overall macroeconomic outlook,”
the RBA said in today’s minutes.  Australia’s central bank aims to keep inflation between 2
percent and 3 percent on average and policy makers noted that
recent data confirmed that  core inflation  is now in the mid-
point of the target range.  On Hold  Today’s minutes suggest the central bank is “on hold for
some time,” said  Adam Carr , a senior economist in Sydney at
ICAP Australia Ltd., a unit of the world’s biggest interdealer
broker. “Even if you’re pessimistic, it’s going to take time
for that to be reflected in the data given its current
momentum.”  Still, the currency’s strength is hurting Toyota Motor
Corp.’s Australian division, the country’s largest car exporter,
which announced last month it would cut more than a 10th of the
employees at its assembly plant after a 21 percent decline in
2011 production. General Motors Co.’s local unit has also
announced job cuts.  Australia recorded its worst annual jobs growth in 19 years
in 2011 as  Europe ’s escalating debt crisis damaged confidence.
The jobs market has shown signs of revival this year as
employers added the most workers in 14 months in January and the
unemployment rate unexpectedly declined to 5.1 percent.  Longer Hours  “Members observed that it appeared that additional demand
for labor had been met largely through existing employees
working longer hours over the past year, rather than through an
increase in hiring,” the minutes showed.  Australia’s economy is being driven by  China , the nation’s
biggest trading partner, which is buying up  iron ore , coal and
natural gas as millions of people in the world’s most populous
nation move to urban centers. Resource projects in Australia
valued at A$456 billion ($490 billion) are spurring companies
such as BHP Billiton Ltd. to increase hiring and helping cushion
a slump in manufacturing and services.  “Growth in China had moderated as intended, but on most
indicators had remained quite robust through the second half of
2011,” policy makers said in the minutes.  The RBA this month lowered its forecasts for growth and
inflation. It sees average growth of 3.5 percent in 2012, down
from its Nov. 4 estimate of 4 percent. Consumer prices will rise
3 percent in the year through to the fourth quarter, less than a
previous prediction of 3.25 percent, the central bank said,
while underlying inflation is predicted to be unchanged at 2.75
percent.  “Global economic and financial market developments had
been somewhat more positive over the past month or so,” policy
makers said in today’s minutes. “Whereas the situation had been
looking quite negative in early December, recent actions by the
 European Central Bank  and euro-area governments had boosted
confidence.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  