-- RBS Set for Return to Profit Alongside Lloyds After 2011 Losses
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-02-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/rbs-lloyds-to-return-to-profit-in-2012-after-last-year-s-losses.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  are set to post losses for 2011 this
week before returning to profit as the state-controlled U.K.
banks cut thousands of jobs and finish a series of writedowns.  RBS may report a net loss of 1.1 billion pounds ($1.75
billion) for the 12 months to Dec. 31 and post an 887 million-
pound profit for 2012, according to the  median estimate  of 13
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Lloyds is estimated to report a
2.6 billion-pound loss for 2011 and a 1.5 billion-pound profit
for 2012, according to a separate survey of 12 analysts.  Lloyds would have returned to profit last year if it hadn’t
set aside 3.2 billion pounds to compensate customers who were
improperly sold personal-loan insurance, while RBS’s loss would
have been narrower without a 950 million-pound charge for
similar insurance sales. RBS has announced 6,800 job reductions
since August, while Lloyds said it was cutting 15,000 employees
as the two banks restructure their businesses in the wake of
bailouts four years ago.  “Impairments are coming down as the businesses shrink and
losses are reduced,” said Shailesh Raikundlia, a banking
analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank in London. “These
things are not expected to be repeated. RBS and Lloyds are going
to return to profit in 2012.”  RBS reports 2011 figures on Feb. 23, with Lloyds following
a day later. The companies’ shares have risen 41 percent and 40
percent respectively this year, following a  rally by lenders 
across  Europe  on speculation the worst of the region’s financial
crises is over.  Cost Cuts  A Lloyds spokeswoman declined to comment on the earnings
estimates. An RBS spokesman didn’t immediately return voicemails
requesting comment.  The government was forced to rescue RBS at the height of
the financial crisis, injecting 45.5 billion pounds of taxpayer
money into the lender, making it the costliest bailout of any
bank in the world. Lloyds ceded a 41 percent stake to the state
and sought a bailout of more than 20 billion pounds after buying
HBOS Plc, the U.K.’s biggest mortgage lender.  The taxpayer’s investment in both banks is about 29.7
billion pounds underwater, according to Bloomberg calculations.
The U.K. paid about double the current market price for its
shares in both companies.  Cost reductions from cutting jobs and exiting businesses
won’t aid their profitability much this year, according to Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool. He said RBS
may report more detail on savings from its investment bank,
which is exiting unprofitable cash equities, merger advisory and
equity capital markets businesses.  Deposit ‘Price War’  Lloyds and RBS’s 2011 results were also affected by rising
borrowing costs as the banks weaned themselves from low-interest
government loans and took on costlier funding in wholesale
markets. As the European sovereign-debt crisis continues to roil
bond markets, the banks have been forced to compete for customer
deposits as a source of funding.  For that reason, “market intelligence suggests retail
funding costs are being bid up,” the  Bank of England  said in
its December financial stability report.  Banco Santander SA (SAN) 
confirmed the trend when its U.K. unit reported results  Jan. 31 .  “A price war for deposits” may “be a driver of net
interest margins coming back down,” said  Bruce Packard , an
analyst at Seymour Pierce in London.  RBS’s loan-to-deposit ratio fell by 2 percentage points to
112 percent in the third quarter, meaning the bank lent 112
pounds for every 100 pounds it took in deposits. At its worst in
2008, the ratio was 154 percent.  Bonuses Reduced  In response to having its senior debt and deposit ratings
cut in October, RBS said it had made “significant progress” in
strengthening its credit profile since 2008.  Lloyds improved its loan-to-deposit ratio to 140 percent in
the third quarter from 154 percent a year earlier. It was 176
percent at the end of June 2009, and Chief Executive Officer
Antonio Horta-Osorio plans to reduce the ratio to 130 percent.  Horta-Osorio said in January he’ll spurn his 2011 bonus
given the bank’s full-year loss and his nine-week absence for
exhaustion. Yesterday former CEO  Eric Daniels  was stripped of 40
percent of his bonus, losing about 580,000 pounds worth of
deferred stock, as a result of the improper insurance sales.  While the banks will likely make profits in 2012, revenues
aren’t going to improve, said  Simon Willis , an analyst at  Daniel
Stewart Securities Plc. (DAN)  Lloyds’ full-year revenue for 2012 will
fall 0.2 percent to 20.5 billion pounds, according to the
Bloomberg survey, while RBS revenue will contract 2.7 percent to
26.3 billion pounds.  “Three years ago, quite a lot of people were looking for
positive earnings from RBS and Lloyds in 2011 and certainly
2012, so the recovery has been deferred at least twice,” said
Willis. “People will expect a recovery, but there’ll be an
element of not entirely believing it until you see it.”  Still, smaller banks making fewer new loans may curb the
likelihood of future problems, said Greenwood.  “These banks haven’t been writing a lot of new business
and have been shrinking their balance sheets,” he said. “The
scope for further big nasty losses is becoming more limited.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in  London  at 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  