-- Treasuries Fall for 3rd Day as Greek Bailout Reduces Haven Demand at Sale
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-02-21T22:02:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/treasuries-fall-for-3rd-day-as-greek-bailout-reduces-haven-demand-at-sale.html
Treasuries declined for a third day
as the approval of a bailout package for  Greece  by European
leaders reduced refuge demand at the U.S. government’s auction
of $35 billion in two-year notes.  The notes yielded 0.310 percent, matching pre-auction
trading and compared with 0.25 percent at the previous sale on
Jan. 24.  Yields (USGG10YR)  on 10-year debt reached the highest level in a
month while they are still more than a percentage point below
their five-year average on speculation the  Federal Reserve  will
maintain efforts to stimulate the economy. The central bank sold
$8.6 billion of notes today as part of its program to shift its
holdings to longer-maturity Treasuries.  “It was an on-the-screws auction with muted response so
far,” said Russ Certo, managing director of rates trading at
Gleacher & Co. in  New York . “This was a winner for the dealers
because we took down the supply pretty much at the lows for the
day.”  Yields on current two-year notes rose one basis point, or
0.01 percentage point, to 0.30 percent at 5:01 p.m. New York
time, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 0.25
percent securities maturing in January 2014 was unchanged at 99
29/32.  Benchmark 10-year note yields rose six basis points to 2.06
percent. They touched 2.08 percent, the most since Jan. 24,
compared with a five-year average of 3.41 percent.  Inflation Measure  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a reflection of traders’ outlook
for inflation known as the break-even rate, reached 2.31
percentage points, the highest since August.  The two-year note auction’s  bid-to-cover  ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.54, compared with an average of the
past 10 auctions of 3.49 percent.  Two-year notes have lost 0.1 percent this year, compared
with the 0.5 percent decline for the broader Treasury market,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The two-year
securities returned 1.5 percent in 2011.  Indirect bidders, a class of investors that includes
foreign central banks, bought 35.8 percent of the notes at the
sale after purchasing 32.9 percent in January. The average for
the past 10 offerings is 32.3 percent.  Bid Details  Direct bidders, non-primary dealer investors that place
their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 9.5 percent of
the notes at the sale, compared with an average of 13.7.  Primary dealers  held  $65.27 billion of U.S. coupon
securities of as long as three years in maturity as of Feb. 8,
the most ever, according to Fed data. The amount helped to push
aggregate dealer holdings of Treasuries to a record high of $106
billion during the same period.  “It’s a big supply week,” Gleacher’s Certo said.
“There’s a lot of Treasury bill supply and auction supply in
the U.S.”  Today’s offering is the first of three note auctions this
week totaling $99 billion. The Treasury will sell $35 billion in
five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion in seven-year securities
on Feb. 23.  This week’s note auctions and last week’s sale of $9
billion of 30-year Treasury Inflation Protected Securities will
raise $47.8 billion of new cash as maturing securities held by
the public total $60.2 billion.  Investors in a weekly survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit
of the world’s largest interdealer broker, maintained their
bearish stance on Treasuries. Ried’s index on the outlook
through June slid to 43 for the seven days ended Feb. 17 from 44
the previous week. A figure below 50 shows investors expect  U.S.
government debt  to drop.  Fed Moves  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June.  The U.S. central bank sold securities due from December
2012 to May 2013 today under the program, according to the New
York Fed’s  website . Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has pledged to
keep the target for overnight lending between banks at virtually
zero until at least late 2014.  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in Brussels awarded 130
billion euros ($172 billion) in aid to Greece. The plan includes
a 53.5 percent writedown for investors in the nation’s bonds,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters.  Officials also held out the prospect of boosting the
backstop for future fiscal emergencies to 750 billion euros from
a planned limit of 500 billion euros when a permanent aid fund
is paired with the temporary fund starting in July. A summit on
March 1-2 may deliver a “significant reinforcement of the euro-
area firewall,” Juncker said.  “It’s a little bit of a selloff with some optimism over
 Europe  maybe working its way out,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York,
one of primary dealers that are required to bid at the auctions.
“It’s clearly not an endgame, they’re still going to be
dragging this thing out instead of there being some definitive
end to the crisis.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  