-- Treasuries Decline for Third Day as Greek Bailout Eases Demand for Refuge
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-02-21T16:05:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/treasuries-fall-before-u-s-debt-auctions-this-week-totaling-99-billion.html
Treasuries dropped for a third day
after European finance ministers agreed on a second bailout
package for Greece aimed at staving off default and keeping the
17-nation euro area intact.  Two-year  yields  traded at almost the highest level since
October as the Treasury prepared to sell $35 billion of the
securities today in the first of three note auctions this week.
Yields on 10-year debt still remain more than a percentage point
below their five-year average on speculation the  Federal Reserve 
will maintain efforts to stimulate the economy.  “It’s a little bit of a selloff, with some optimism over
 Europe  maybe working its way out,” said Ira Jersey, an
interest-rate strategist at Credit Suisse Group AG in New York,
one of primary dealers that are required to bid at the auctions.
“It’s clearly not an endgame, they’re still going to be
dragging this thing out, instead of there being some definitive
end to the crisis.”  Yields on 10-year notes rose five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.05 percent at 11:02 a.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in February 2022 fell 13/32, or $4.06 per
$1,000 face amount, to 99 18/32. The yield reached the most
since Feb. 9.  Two-year note yields were at 0.29 percent after reaching
0.30 percent, almost the highest since Oct. 28.  Market Reaction  “Treasury yields are up slightly due to the Greek bailout,
yet it’s a pretty mild reaction,” said  Richard Gilhooly , an
interest-rate strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD
Securities Inc. in New York. “There was some outride risk going
into the weekend that some countries like the Netherlands and
 Finland  weren’t going to go ahead with the bailout, but they
decided to give Greece the cash. Overall, Treasury yields are
still holding in ranges.”  The difference between rates on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a reflection of traders’ outlook
known as the break-even rate, reached 2.31 percentage points,
the highest since August.  The two-year notes being sold today yielded 0.29 percent in
pre-auction trading, compared with 0.25 percent at the previous
sale on Jan. 24.  Investors  bid  for 3.75 times the amount of available debt
last month, versus the average of 3.49 for the past 10 auctions.
 Indirect bidders,  the category of buyers that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 32.9 percent.  Debt Sales  The government is also scheduled to auction $35 billion of
five-year notes tomorrow and $29 billion of seven-year
securities on Feb. 23.  Treasuries have lost 0.5 percent this year, while company
debt has gained 2.5 percent, according to Bank of America
Merrill Lynch indexes.  Investors in a weekly survey by Ried Thunberg ICAP, a unit
of the world’s largest interdealer broker, maintained their
bearish stance on Treasuries. Ried’s index on the outlook
through June slid to 43 for the seven days ended Feb. 17 from 44
the previous week. A figure below 50 shows investors expect  U.S.
government debt  to drop.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to cap
borrowing costs and spur the economy under a program it plans to
conclude in June.  Fed Operations  The U.S. central bank sold $8.6 billion of securities due
from December 2012 to May 2013 today under the program,
according to the New York Fed’s  website . Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  has pledged to keep the target for overnight lending
between banks at virtually zero until at least late 2014.  U.S. home sales climbed in January to the highest level
since May 2010, economists said before reports this week.
Combined purchases of new and existing houses increased to a
4.97 million annual rate from 4.92 million in December,
according to Bloomberg News surveys. Existing-home sales figures
are scheduled for release tomorrow, and a report on new-home
sales will be published Feb. 24.  “The tendency is that the markets are relieved by the
Greek situation,” said Viola Stork, a fixed-income strategist
at Helaba Landesbank Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt . “We’ve
seen rather strong data, but at the moment the Federal Reserve
is keeping a loose monetary policy. As long as we see modest
reactions from the Fed, yields will remain anchored at lower
levels.”  Yield Levels  Ten-year note yields are 37 basis points above the record
low of 1.67 percent and 1.85 percentage points less than the
average over the past decade even after the government increased
the publicly traded  debt  to a record $10.1 trillion. The 10-year
yield has averaged 3.41 percent since Feb. 21, 2007.  Timothy F. Geithner , who took over the Treasury Department
in the midst of the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression, oversaw an almost doubling of U.S. public debt and
presided over the loss of the nation’s AAA rating. He has done
better for investors than  Robert Rubin , while falling short of
predecessor  Henry Paulson .  Euro-area finance ministers meeting in Brussels awarded 130
billion euros ($172 billion) in aid to  Greece . The plan includes
a 53.5 percent writedown for investors in the nation’s bonds,
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  told reporters.
The euro strengthened as much as 0.4 percent to $1.3293, the
highest since Feb. 9, before dropping 0.3 percent.  Officials also held out the prospect of boosting the
backstop for future fiscal emergencies to 750 billion euros from
a planned limit of 500 billion euros when a permanent aid fund
is paired with the temporary fund starting in July. A summit on
March 1-2 may deliver a “significant reinforcement of the euro-
area firewall,” Juncker said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  