-- Record Rice Crop Boosting Stockpiles to Decade High: Commodities
-- B y   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 2012-02-21T20:54:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/record-rice-harvests-seen-boosting-stockpiles-to-decade-high-commodities.html
Rice stockpiles are poised to reach
the biggest in almost a decade as record harvests boost supplies
and imports decline for the first time in three years.  Inventories may gain 3 percent to 100.1 million metric
tons, the most since 2003, as global imports contract 7.5
percent, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  says. The Thai
export price, a global benchmark, may tumble as much as 11
percent to $500 a ton in the first half, the  lowest  since June
last year, the median of 11 trader and exporter estimates
compiled by Bloomberg shows.  Rice slumped 15 percent from a three-year high in November
as India, the second-biggest grower, lifted a three-year ban on
exports of non-basmati grain and Thailand, the largest shipper,
bought less than expected in the first four months of a
government stockpiling program. That’s boosted supplies of the
staple for half the world at a time when farmers are planting
record wheat and corn crops. Global  food  costs fell 10 percent
from a record in February 2011, according to the  United Nations .  “Indian exports created havoc in the earlier supply-and-
demand calculations,” said Jac Luyendijk, the chief executive
officer at Preverenges, Switzerland-based SAT Swiss Agri Trading
SA, who has worked in the rice industry for about two decades,
including stints at Andre & Cie. and Nidera. “We have a very
negative outlook.”  Chinese Farmers  The price of 100 percent grade-B Thai rice fell 3.4 percent
to $563 this year, as rough-rice futures traded in  Chicago 
dropped 5.3 percent to $14.07 for 100 pounds. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI Agriculture Index of eight commodities including
wheat and corn is little changed. The MSCI All-Country World
Index of  equities  rose 10 percent and Treasuries lost 0.5
percent, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.  Production will advance 2.6 percent to 462.75 million tons
this year as imports worldwide drop to 30.12 million tons, the
USDA estimates.  India  may  ship  6.5 million tons, the most since
at least 1960, as the harvest climbs 6.3 percent to a record 102
million tons, the data show. Farmers in biggest grower  China 
will boost output 2.6 percent to a record 140.5 million tons.  The expansion is contributing to record supplies of cereals
this year as farmers respond to prices that more than doubled
since 2005, according to the UN’s Food & Agriculture
Organization in  Rome . Inflation worldwide may slow to 2.6
percent this year from 3.6 percent in 2011, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Indian Weather  Global rice prices may be vulnerable to poor growing
conditions in exporting countries because only about 7 percent
of global output is traded internationally and 59 percent of all
cargoes are shipped by three countries,  Thailand ,  Vietnam  and
India. The 7 percent compares with about 37 percent for
soybeans, 20 percent for wheat and 11 percent for corn, USDA
data show.  Any change from normal weather patterns in India may spur
the government to ban exports once more, said  Concepcion Calpe ,
a senior FAO economist and secretary of the organization’s
intergovernmental group on rice.  The Thai government decided last month to extend its
program to buy the grain above market rates after purchasing as
much as 60 percent less than its target since October, said the
Commerce Ministry. The exporters’ association says that may help
cut shipments now estimated by the government at 9.5 million
tons this year compared with 10.6 million tons in 2011.  Producers Association  Farmers in the U.S., the fifth-largest exporter, may switch
fields to more profitable crops, the Houston-based U.S. Rice
Producers Association said in a Jan. 13 report. Domestic
 stockpiles  are set to drop to a two-year low before the next
harvest after acreage fell to the smallest in more than two
decades, the USDA estimates.  “I see farmers reducing their rice acres,” said Dwight Roberts, president of the association. “Soybeans and corn just
pencil in better that rice. Crunch the numbers and rice is just
not attractive.”  Stockpiles in the five biggest exporting nations will reach
a record 31.9 million tons in 2011-2012, the London-based
International Grains Council estimates.  The  Philippines , formerly the world’s biggest buyer, will
cut imports to 500,000 tons this year and to 100,000 tons in
2013 from 2.6 million tons in 2008-2009 when prices rallied to a
record as some countries curbed shipments, according to
forecasts from the agriculture ministry.  Myanmar, Vietnam  Exports from Myanmar may more than double to 1.5 million
tons this year as planting expands, and increase to 3 million
tons by 2015, the Myanmar Rice Industry Association said last
month. The gain would make the country the sixth-largest
shipper, with volumes at the highest level since the 1960s, when
it was the biggest exporter.  Shipments from Vietnam, which totaled 7.1 million tons in
2011, may be as much as 7.34 million tons this year, according
an agriculture ministry report on its website Feb. 3.  Nigeria , the largest importer,  South Africa  and  Senegal 
advanced some of this year’s planned purchases to the last
quarter of 2011 on concern that prices would rise, said  Rakesh Singh , a trader at New Delhi-based Emmsons International Ltd.
That means stockpiles are already replenished, curbing demand,
said Singh, who’s traded the grain for two decades.  India will continue to export non-basmati rice because
stockpiles are still big enough to meet domestic demand, Food
Minister K.V. Thomas said Jan. 17, according to a report by the
 Press Trust of India .  “India’s lifting of the  export  ban last year reversed the
price direction,” according to Chookiat Ophaswongse, the
honorary president of the Bangkok-based Thai Rice Exporters
Association, which sets the weekly benchmark price. “India’s
presence continues to pressure global prices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  