-- Rio Sees ‘Volatile’ First-Half Ore Prices on Greece, China
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-02-21T03:09:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/rio-sees-volatile-first-half-iron-ore-prices-on-china-greece.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the second-biggest
 iron ore  exporter, expects prices to remain volatile in the
first half as demand slows from Chinese steel mills and the
European debt crisis crimps the outlook for global growth.  “We believe we’ll go through a period of uncertainty
probably in the first six months of the year with volatility,
then we see some smoother sailing,”   Sam Walsh , the company’s
iron ore and Australia chief executive officer, told reporters
in Perth. “Trying to resolve the issues in  Greece  and elsewhere
creates an amount of uncertainty. People are holding back
waiting for things to be resolved, waiting for the comfort that
they can see where the economy will be going.”  Prices, which have dropped 2.3 percent since the start of
the year, may be softer in the first half before demand picks up
in the second, Anglo American Plc said last month. China, the
largest steelmaker, boosted annual output by the slowest pace in
three years in 2011 with some mills including Maanshan Iron &
Steel Co. reporting annual profit fell by more than 50 percent.  “There’s an element of softness there,” Walsh told
reporters on Feb. 18. “From the profit results from  steel mills 
you can see there are some issues.”  Rio rose 1.2 percent to A$68.83 at 1:55 p.m. in Sydney
trading, compared with a 0.7 percent gain in the benchmark
S&P/ASX 200 Index.  The mills haven’t restocked as is typical in the weeks
after the Lunar New Year on concern of a lack of government
support for steel-consuming housing and infrastructure projects,
 Tom Price , commodity analyst at UBS AG in Sydney, said today in
an e-mail. Iron ore dropped for nine straight days this month,
the longest run in more than three months. It fell 30 percent
during October as purchases in China slowed.  Greek Crisis  Vale SA, the world’s largest  iron-ore  producer, said last
week fourth-quarter profit fell 21 percent, missing analysts’
estimates, after prices dropped and the debt crisis caused
European shipments to slump. The company said it expects a
“tight” market for the raw material this year because of
increasing Chinese demand and constrained supply expansion.  “The outlook for iron ore is one of robust demand, though
not without some caution as a result of the European and
American economic challenges,” Walsh said. “We’re fortunate
that China is a managed economy and that government has
committed to continue to invest in the sort of basic
fundamentals that are needed for the urbanization and
industrialization of China.”  Fourth-Quarter  The People’s Bank of  China  on Feb. 18 decided to reduce the
proportion of cash that banks must set aside by half a
percentage point to 20.5 percent, to help ease a cash shortage
in the financial system. China’s gross domestic product grew 8.9
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, the slowest
pace since the first half of 2009.  “Although the rate of GDP growth in China is starting to
slow, we predict a soft landing with growth around 8 percent
this year,” Walsh said.  Rio last year made 78 percent of its net income from iron
ore sales, data compiled by Bloomberg shows. The company is
expanding iron ore output in  Australia ’s Pilbara region by more
than 50 percent to 283 million metric tons by next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  