-- Romania’s Transelectrica Is Sued Over Wind-Park Grid Connection
-- B y   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 2012-02-21T14:39:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/romania-s-transelectrica-sued-over-wind-park-grid-connection.html
Romania’s Eolica Dobrogea SRL sued
the country’s energy regulator, ANRE, and  power-grid  operator
 Transelectrica SA (TEL) , for refusing to connect a wind park to the
national grid, Transelectrica said.  Eolica, which is building wind parks in Romania for  Spain ’s
 Iberdrola Renovables SA (IBR) , is claiming damages of 118 million
euros ($157 million) a year from the grid operator for not
connecting the company’s Cogealac park to the national power
grid, according to a statement to the Bucharest Stock Exchange
yesterday. The trial is scheduled to start on March 16.  Eolica’s shareholder and board member Christoph Kapp said
the legal action against Romanian authorities was taken by the
company’s administrator “in his own discretion and intention”
while the company initiated the procedures to replace him,
according to an e-mailed statement today.  “Once the new management will be in place, one of the
first actions will be the immediate withdraw the legal actions,
litigations and court files,” Kapp  said in the statement . “We
will do our utmost to rectify the unprofessional and completely
contra-productive steps taken by the actual management in the
shortest period of time possible.”  Iberdrola “is not involved in any way in the legal actions
taken by Eolica,” Adrian Goicea, the company’s country manager,
said in a phone interview today.  When contacted by Swiss Capital SA, a local brokerage,
Transelectrica’s juridical department said it is not concerned
over the further development of the litigation as the company’s
refusal to connect the wind park to the national grid has legal
grounds, the brokerage said in a note to clients today.  ANRE didn’t respond to calls seeking additional comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andra Timu in Bucharest at 
 atimu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  