-- Romney Unlike Father He Invokes to Connect With Michigan Voters
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-02-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/romney-unlike-father-he-invokes-to-connect-with-michigan-primary-voters.html
Mitt Romney mentioned in an  opinion
piece  for a  Michigan  newspaper last week that he learned to love
“chrome and fins and roaring motors” while growing up in
 Detroit . His father might have disagreed with such sentiment.  George Romney, a onetime chairman of the now defunct
American Motors Corp., was a pioneer of small, fuel-efficient
cars, most notably the Rambler. He even kept a plaque in his
office from the Cleveland Auto Dealers Association that read:
“To George Romney, critic, lecturer, anthropologist, white
hunter of the American dinosaur.” To the elder Romney, the gas-
guzzling, chrome-laden automobiles of his era were doomed just
like the prehistoric beasts.  “This fellow here is called a triceratops,” he told a
Time magazine interviewer in 1959 as he pulled a miniature
dinosaur from his briefcase. “He had the biggest radiator
ornament in prehistoric history. It kept getting bigger and
bigger until finally he could no longer hold up his head.”  Car detail tastes aside, there are numerous ways  George
Romney  and Mitt Romney differed, both in their personalities and
politics. The contrasts come into view as the son seeks to wrap
himself in the popularity and success of his father -- a three-
term governor in Michigan during the 1960s -- before the state’s
Feb. 28 Republican presidential primary.  Volcanic Vs. Calculating  George, who died in 1995, was effervescent and volcanic. He
pushed through the first state income tax in Michigan and
supported the civil rights movement, actions that carried
political risk. Mitt is more calculating and disciplined.  “George was a leader. Mitt is a manager,” said J. Bonner
Ritchie, a retired business professor at Brigham Young
University who was a friend of George’s and has interviewed Mitt
for an unpublished book about his father. “George was willing
to take risks. He was less concerned about what people would
think about him. Nobody ever accused George of flip-flopping or
playing to the audience.”  Ritchie said he and his two co-authors haven’t titled their
book yet and are delaying its publication at the request of  Mitt
Romney , 64, who helped fund the project.  Too much focus on George Romney carries risk for Mitt
Romney as he fights for the 2012 Republican presidential
nomination in a year when the party’s opposition voices to
 government spending , abortion rights, and immigration are the
loudest.  Advocated Civil Rights  His father was part of the Republican Party’s moderate wing
and he used his platform to advocate government assistance to
the poor in housing and other areas. In 1964, he refused to
support the party’s presidential nominee,  Barry Goldwater , in
part because of Goldwater’s opposition to national civil rights
laws, which ended segregation and provided minority voting
rights.  Complicated relationships between fathers and sons in
political families aren’t unusual. Former President  George W. Bush  went out of his way to keep distance between his presidency
and that of his father,  George H.W. Bush .  The younger Bush rarely talked about his father on the
campaign trail, while Romney, the youngest of four children,
routinely brings up his dad as he recounts how the family took
cross-country drives to see national parks.  When he lost three Republican state caucuses on Feb. 7 to
former Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania , Romney talked
about his father as he sought to highlight the family’s working-
class credentials. He said his dad once apprenticed as a
carpenter and could “take a handful of nails, stick them in his
mouth and then, you know, spit them out, pointy end forward.”  Side-by-Side Campaigning  The public support and affection between father and son
went both ways. George Romney was a confidant to his son and
campaigned at his side in  Massachusetts  in 1994 when he
unsuccessfully challenged Democratic Senator Ted Kennedy, who
died in August 2009.  The two Romneys lived in different eras defined by their
own political dynamics, so some comparisons aren’t easy fits.
Still, their governing styles and backgrounds could hardly be
more distinct.  George relied on gut instinct, while Mitt depends on
homework and preparation. George never finished college, while
Mitt attended an elite high school,  Brigham Young University  and
 Harvard University ’s law and business schools.  Well-Mannered Son  George once inadvertently ripped the lapel off the coat of
a state lawmaker during an argument, while as Massachusetts
governor Mitt was known for his well-mannered behavior.  “George Romney was very outspoken, extroverted, candid and
dynamic in a way that Mitt has just never been able to be,”
said  Bill Ballenger , editor of the  Inside Michigan Politics 
newsletter. “He was a very straight-forward, straight-shooting
guy and Mitt has always had this trouble of people thinking that
there is something artificial about him.”  George was also a natural salesman who showed determination
in whatever he undertook, Ritchie said, including the courtship
of his wife, Lenore, then an aspiring actress.  His pursuit of Lenore began in high school, and ended
successfully years later after he followed her first to
 Washington , D.C. and then to Hollywood.  “He was persistent in a way that very few people are,” he
said.  Washington Lobbyist  The senior Romney served as a lobbyist in Washington for
the aluminum industry, before entering the  automotive  industry.
He returned to Washington after his governorships as secretary
of housing and urban development in the Nixon administration. He
resigned that position in 1972,  expressing  frustration with the
“inherent limitations” in the political processes that make
reforms “too dependent upon a crisis.”  Given his views about  taxes  and an activist government,
George likely wouldn’t mesh well in the current  Republican
Party . Even in his own era, he got himself into political
trouble and was known for occasional gaffes, like his son.  In one of those misstatements, George damaged his own
presidential bid when he told an interviewer in 1967 that he’d
suffered a “brainwashing” in 1965 from military commanders and
diplomats during his travels in  Vietnam .  After initially backing American involvement in the war,
his newfound criticism was in conflict with his party’s
collective view as it prepared to challenge incumbent President
 Lyndon Johnson . It also appeared inconsistent and included a
word that for some Americans carried negative connotations about
U.S. soldiers. After the remark, George saw his standing in
polls drop and his presidential bid was fatally damaged.  Puzzled Looks  How much George Romney’s name will help his son in next
week’s primary remains unknown. It could be overstated,
considering the family’s presence on the state’s political stage
ended years ago. Mitt Romney’s mother ran unsuccessfully for
 U.S. Senate  in 1970 and his brother, Scott, lost his bid to
become the Republican nominee for  Michigan (BEESMI)  attorney general in
1998. Last week, a few blocks from the home where Mitt Romney
spent the majority of his childhood, raising the name of his
father often drew puzzled looks from younger residents.  As different as father and son are politically, there are
similarities, including their frugality. Mitt has been seen
doing his own laundry in hotels on the campaign trail. George
was known for eating at McDonald’s and grabbing roses from the
bushes of his neighbors during his morning jogs to give to his
wife, said Ritchie, the retired business professor.  They also shared a commitment to physical fitness. Mitt
Romney routinely runs or uses a treadmill while on the campaign
trail, while his father played a jogging version of solitary
golf at first daylight using luminous balls at a country club
across the street from their home in  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan.  Both father and son also shared a sincere desire to help
others, Ritchie said.  “There is no question of the centrality of their
commitment to the community, their faith and family,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John McCormick in Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  