-- Russia Says EU Carbon Trading Rules for Foreign Airlines Are ‘Premature’
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-21T11:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/russia-says-eu-carbon-trading-rules-for-foreign-airlines-are-premature-.html
The extension of the European
Union’s emissions trading system to international airlines is
“premature” and could lead to higher ticket prices and a slump
in demand for flights, according to  Russia ’s government.  Russia, which is hosting a two-day meeting of countries
opposing the inclusion of foreign airlines in the EU cap-and-
trade plan, urged the exemption of non-European carriers and
opted for global measures to tackle emissions from the industry,
the Transportation Ministry said in a statement.  “Before coordinated actions by countries are worked out it
is necessary to refrain from applying the directive to carriers
from countries non-members of the EU,” Transportation Minister
 Igor Levitin  said in an opening speech at the meeting, according
to the statement e-mailed today.  The meeting of 32 countries in Moscow follows a  non-binding
resolution  adopted by the  United Nations ’  International Civil
Aviation Organization  last year at the urging of 26 nations,
including  India ,  China ,  Japan  and Russia, calling for the
exemption of non-EU airlines from the European emissions trading
system, or the ETS.  At their gathering today and tomorrow the opponents of the
ETS plan to “coordinate action” and discuss a “basket of
countermeasures” against the EU emissions trading system,
according to an agenda obtained by Bloomberg News.  Equivalent Measures  The EU has repeatedly said that while its ETS law enables
the exemption of incoming flights from a country if it
implements “equivalent measures” to tackle pollution from
aviation, the bloc won’t give up the inclusion of airlines in
the cap-and-trade program.  “So far it very much seems this group of countries can
agree on one thing: what should not be done,” Climate
Commissioner Connie Hedegaard said in an interview last week.
“But it would be much more interesting to see what new move
they are willing to take that would make it likely this time to
get a global deal through ICAO.”  The EU, which wants to lead the global fight against
 climate change , decided that flights to and from European
airports should become as of 2012 a part of the ETS after
airline carbon-dioxide discharges in the region doubled over two
decades and international organizations failed to enact
pollution curbs.  85 Percent Allocation  International carriers will be given emission permits
making up 85 percent of the industry cap in 2012 and will have
to buy the remaining 15 percent at auction. Should airlines pass
the extra costs on to passengers, fares would increase by no
more than 12 euros ($15.88) each way of a long-haul flight based
on the current price of EU CO2 allowances, Hedegaard said
earlier this month.  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and Delta Airlines Inc.
announced in January a $3 per ticket surcharge on flights from
the U.S. to  Europe  to compensate for the cost of buying permits.  Levitin said that the ETS curbs on airlines violate the
Chicago Convention governing international civil aviation
because carbon permits have to be bought for the entire flight
and not just for the part in the EU airspace, according to the
statement today.  “Taking into account that global warming is all-
encompassing, it is necessary to solve these issues by consent
of all parties concerned by the decision at the global level in
the framework of ICAO,” he was quoted as saying.  The UN aviation body intends to strike a deal this year
creating a global carbon market for the industry,  Raymond
Benjamin , ICAO’s secretary general, said in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net 
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net 
Torrey Clark at   tclark8@bloomberg.net  