-- Samsung Wins Two U.S. 4G Deals as Company Seeks Expansion in Network Gear
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-02-21T06:40:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/samsung-wins-two-u-s-4g-deals-as-company-seeks-expansion-in-network-gear.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
second-largest mobile-phone maker, won two contracts to sell
gear for fourth-generation wireless service in the U.S. as it
seeks to gain share in the market for  network equipment .  The company gained orders from “top” and “mid”-tier
U.S. mobile-phone operators, I.P. Hong, head of the marketing
group at  Samsung (005930) ’s network-equipment business, said today in an
interview in Seoul, declining to provide further details. An
official announcement will be made around May, he said.  The deals would boost Samsung’s presence as an equipment
provider in one of the world’s most advanced 4G markets. The
maker of Galaxy smartphones is vying for a larger share of the
network-gear industry led by  Ericsson AB (ERICB) , Huawei Technologies
Co. and Nokia Siemens Networks.  Samsung is counting on sales of products using the so-
called long-term evolution, or LTE, technology, as carriers
around the world race to build 4G networks using the standard to
offer faster Web browsing and downloads on phones. The new U.S.
orders are also for LTE service, Hong said.  Samsung, which aims to be one of the top three makers of
telecommunications gear by 2015, was set to overtake Ericsson
as the largest vendor of LTE base stations in  Asia  last year,
researcher NPD In-Stat  said  in November. The company seeks to
be among the world’s three largest LTE equipment vendors
this year, Hong said.  India Contract  Samsung is in competition to win an LTE contract from a
leading carrier in India and expects the negotiations to
conclude in the first half, he said. The company is also in
discussions with Clearwire Corp. in the U.S. for a possible
contract, he said.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung said in June it won an
order from  KDDI Corp. (9433)  in  Japan  to supply LTE equipment. The
company was among three vendors picked by Sprint Nextel Corp. in
2010 for a project worth as much as $5 billion to upgrade
networks.  Before last year, Samsung’s focus had been on developing
products using WiMax technology, an alternative 4G standard
supported by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  Growth of the WiMax market is slowing
as operators’ switch to LTE. Samsung will continue supporting
existing WiMax customers, Hong said.  The market for LTE equipment may grow 45 percent annually
over the next five years,  according to  Dell’Oro Group. The
global wireless equipment market grew 15 percent in the third
quarter, with LTE gear sales accounting for almost half the
increase, according to the  Redwood City , California-based
researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  