-- Saudi Arabia’s Domestic Oil Demand Rises 4% in 2011, JODI Says
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-02-21T13:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/saudi-arabia-s-domestic-oil-demand-rises-4-in-2011-jodi-says.html
Saudi Arabia ’s domestic consumption
of crude oil rose 4 percent in 2011 from a year earlier, data
the government submitted to the Joint Organization Data
Initiative showed.  The world’s largest crude exporter used 661.2 million
barrels of oil last year, compared with 636.4 million barrels in
2010, according to data posted on the initiative’s  website  on
Feb. 19. That’s about a fifth of its total output of 3.39
billion barrels last year.  Saudi Arabia faces rising demand for crude as its
population grows and its gross domestic product expands. The
country, which is aiming to double its generation capacity in
the next decade, generates about half its electricity from oil,
Fouad Jwayed Alsherebi, Saudi Electricity Co.’s executive vice
president of generation said on Feb. 7.  “The domestic growth drivers are strong, underpinned by
robust GDP growth, the current pricing structure, and the lack
of alternatives,”  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist at Jeddah-
based  National Commercial Bank , the country’s largest lender by
assets, said yesterday in an e-mail.  Crude consumption is rising even as production of natural
gas rises. Saudi Arabian Oil Co.’s offshore Karan gas field,
which started output last year, offers some relief to the use of
crude in power production, Kotilaine said.  The state-owned producer plans to start output at the
Hasbah and Arabia fields in 2014, Chief Executive Officer Khalid al-Falih said on Jan. 14 in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.  “Most of the new gas is still at the planning and
development stage and will not fundamentally change the
picture,” Kotilaine said.  Saudi Arabia holds the world’s fifth-largest gas deposits
and increased its output of the fuel by 7 percent to 83.9
billion cubic meters in 2010, according to BP Plc’s Statistical
Review of World Energy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Cairo at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  