-- Saudi Oil Minister Al-Naimi Arrives in Qatar for Talks
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-02-21T14:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/saudi-oil-minister-al-naimi-arrives-in-qatar-for-consultations-.html
Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi held
talks in Qatar with officials including his former Qatari
counterpart Abdullah bin Hamad al-Attiyah.  Al-Naimi declined to comment today upon his arrival at a
hotel in Doha, the Qatari capital. Al-Attiyah, the country’s
deputy prime minister, said al-Naimi was visiting for
“consultations,” declining to elaborate.  Saudi Arabia  is the
world’s largest crude exporter, and neighboring Qatar is the
biggest supplier of liquefied natural gas.  Al-Naimi met with Qatari Energy Minister Mohammed al-Sada.
A press conference scheduled to follow the talks was canceled.  Tension has escalated between Gulf Arab nations including
Saudi Arabia and Qatar, both with Sunni-majority populations,
and their Shiite neighbor  Iran . Saudi Arabia and Qatar export
their hydrocarbons though the  Strait of Hormuz , a waterway at
the mouth of the  Persian Gulf  that Iran has threatened to block
if Western nations tighten sanctions over its nuclear program.  Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Iran share membership in the
 Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries,  which provides 40
percent of the world’s oil. Saudi Arabia pumped 9.61 million
barrels a day of oil last month, and Iran, OPEC’s No. 2
producer, supplied 3.48 million barrels a day, according to data
published in the group’s monthly oil market report. Qatar
produced 820,000 barrels a day, according to the report, which
is based on secondary sources.  Saudi Arabia and Qatar are also investing in renewable
sources of energy to reduce their reliance on crude and gas.
Qatar will host the annual United Nations climate change
conference this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  