-- Shell EPA Permits for Alaska Drilling Challenged in Court
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-02-21T21:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/shell-epa-permits-for-alaska-drilling-challenged-in-court-1-.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s air
pollution permits for offshore oil drilling in  Alaska  were
challenged by environmental groups who said the permits violate
the U.S. Clean Air Act.  The Alaska Wilderness League and eight other organizations
filed a petition with the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  San Francisco 
on Feb. 17, asking it to review two permits the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency granted Shell to operate its
Discoverer drillship in the Sea of Beaufort and the Sea of
Chukchi.  “As early as this summer, the Discoverer drillship and
other vessels in Shell’s fleet could be in the Chukchi Sea or
 Beaufort Sea  of the  Arctic Ocean  where they will pump tens of
thousands of tons of pollution into pristine Arctic skies,” the
groups said in a statement today.  The organizations allege that the EPA approved the permits
without ensuring that all air quality standards were met,
including not requiring that Shell install all the pollution
controls that it should have, according to the statement.  The EPA permits were issued Feb. 10 to U.S. subsidiaries of
The Hague-based Shell, according to the petition.  “Shell and EPA have worked to assemble strong,
environmentally responsible air permits,” Shell spokeswoman
Kelly op de Weegh said in an e-mailed statement. “Specifically,
we have committed to retro-fit our catalytic exhaust systems and
use ultra-low sulfur fuel on all of our vessels.”  Drilling Permits  The company will continue to work with regulators to get
all the permits it needs to start drilling this summer, op de
Weegh said.  Shell on Feb. 17 received U.S. approval for its oil-spill
response plan in the  Chukchi Sea , bringing it closer to winding
up a five-year quest to drill off the north coast of Alaska.  Shell must obtain drilling permits from the Interior
Department’s Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement to
start work as early as July. The company also needs U.S. Fish &
Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries Service
permission for “incidental” disruption of polar bears, walrus,
whales and seals.  Shell, which has spent about $4 billion on leases, seismic
studies and research of Arctic mammals since acquiring access to
the Beaufort Sea in 2005, is seeking to drill as many as five
wells this year in a region with an estimated 26.6 billion
barrels of oil. The exploration plans for both Chukchi and
Beaufort seas were approved last year.  An EPA spokesman in  Washington  didn’t immediately return
calls for comment.  The case is Redoil v. EPA, 12-70518, U.S. Court of Appeals
for Ninth Circuit (San Francisco.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 