-- South Korea Police Arrest 6 for Spreading N. Korea Nuclear Accident Rumors
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   S a n g w o n   Y o o n
-- 2012-02-21T03:54:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/six-arrested-in-s-korea-over-nuclear-rumors.html
South Korean police arrested six
people for spreading false rumors about a North Korean nuclear
reactor explosion on Jan. 6 to manipulate the stock market.  The six, including two office workers and a university
student, conspired to circulate rumors through instant-messaging
that a light-water reactor exploded in  North Korea  and radiation
had leaked, the  National Police Agency  said in a statement
posted on its website today. They made 61 million won ($54,314)
in profits from spreading rumors to move financial markets,
according to the police.  The South Korean won declined as much as 0.9 percent on
Jan. 6 to 1163.15 per dollar, its weakest level since Dec. 20,
while the benchmark  Kospi index  dropped as much as 2.1 percent.
The decline prompted the nation’s financial regulator to
investigate the spreading of rumors, and the stock exchange to
probe whether there were any “unusual” trades.  “We will continue to strictly probe stock price
manipulation crimes aimed at disrupting equity-market order and
doing harm to investors,” the police said in the statement.
“The police and the Financial Supervisory Service will keep
expanding the investigation.”  The South Korean financial regulator said on Dec. 28 it
would boost monitoring of market speculation related to North
Korea after the  Kospi (KOSPI)  index tumbled a day earlier. The gauge
sank as much as 2.3 percent on Dec. 27 on what exchange
officials attributed in part to unconfirmed rumors about the
health of North Korea’s new leader and plans by  China  to send
troops to the communist nation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net 
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  