-- Slave Receipt, Caddy Lead $500 Million African American Museum
-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 2012-02-21T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/slave-receipt-chuck-berry-headline-500-million-african-american-museum.html
An ordinary sales slip consigning a
young woman to slavery is among the chilling items that will be
displayed at the National Museum of African American History and
Culture.  The $500 million branch of the Smithsonian in Washington
breaks ground tomorrow for an opening in the autumn of 2015 that
will add an ambiguous exclamation to the imposing line of
culture palaces along the Mall.  A rendering of the museum’s design reveals it to be too
polite to capture the tragic and redemptive African-American
experience. Yet I can feel an exuberant Africanness struggling
to escape the civic blandness imposed by fundraising, watchdog
groups and design review that are part of building on America’s
most sacred ground.  Athletically sloping columns hoist tiers of bronze
metalwork above the National Mall. David Adjaye, the project’s
chief designer, says those sprouting bronze metal bands derive
from Yoruba motifs. The building captures a sensibility found in
textiles and art throughout West Africa, where the chief slave-
trading ports were.  London-based Adjaye is working with the insightful
architect Philip Freelon, of Durham,  North Carolina . (The team
includes architecture firms Davis Brody Bond and SmithGroup.)  As you approach the museum, the apparently solid bronze
surface is revealed as a delicate screen made from a high-tech
composite of concrete and bronze that softens the building’s
bulk. Its patterns energetically update the ornamental ironwork
screens that veiled porches in 19th-century  New Orleans , where
many of the artisans were African-American.  On the Porch  The museum’s Mall-facing south side welcomes visitors with
a broad veranda -- another image drawn from collective memory.
Even the poorest could take refuge from the heat of summer on a
porch where family life was carried on.  Fronted by a cooling pond, the veranda will beckon visitors
trudging the walkways from the nearby Washington Monument. The
location is extraordinary -- next to the Smithsonian National
Museum of American History, where the mall opens to the broad
green cross-axis that leads from the White House and flows
around the monument to the picturesque tidal basin.  The ground floor is given over to a glass-wrapped public
room, a convivial gathering and event space with a ceiling from
which hangs a forest of wood boards; these conceal lighting and
projection screens. The convex ceiling rises highest at the
edges to call attention to views of the White House and the
Lincoln Memorial. No other Washington museum takes in this
extraordinary setting.  In the Basement  In basement galleries, museum director Lonnie Bunch links
black experience to the full sweep of American events, from
slavery to the election of  Barack Obama . The museum will display
a French Croix de Guerre earned by a World War I “Harlem
Hellfighter,” who was permitted to fight for the U.S. only
under the French.  You’ll walk through a comfortable rail car reserved for
whites, swing open a pair of doors and find bare benches where
blacks were segregated.  “I am not creating a building by, and about, and for
African Americans,” said Bunch. “We’re helping people
understand American ideas of freedom and resiliency.”  The history galleries culminate in a contemplative memorial
room, where water spills down from a ground-level oculus above.  Two upper-level exhibition floors focus on black
contributions in music, sports and fine arts. You’ll find Chuck Berry’s guitar and Cadillac.  Out the Window  Adjaye has cut angled windows into the mesh exterior. One
aims at the domed pavilion that commemorates the slave-owning
 Thomas Jefferson . Another frames the Lincoln Memorial, where the
Rev.  Martin Luther King . Jr. delivered his famous “I Had a
Dream” speech.  Visitors can truly comprehend the power of King’s oratory
by imagining the vast space in front of Lincoln’s statue filled
with thousands of listeners.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. He is the author of “The
Agile City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  http://web.me.com/jscanlonrussell   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 