-- Solyndra Replaces Homicides for Ex-Prosecutor Known as ‘T-Bone’
-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-02-21T05:00:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/solyndra-replaces-homicides-for-ex-prosecutor-known-as-t-bone-.html
Nobody gives up information easily.  So says  Todd Harrison , the congressional investigator who
has sought to discover how Solyndra LLC came to win a $535
million U.S. loan guarantee only to file for  bankruptcy
protection  two years later.  “Whether it’s blatant lies or lies of omission, nobody
tells you the truth the first time around,” Harrison said in an
interview.  The 41-year-old chief counsel to the Republican-led House
Energy and Commerce Committee’s investigations panel developed
his hard-boiled philosophy working as prosecutor in New York.
There he dealt with homicides and a plot to blow up the city’s
Herald Square subway station, learning in the process how to
build a case, the “tells” that show when someone is lying, and
the best way to “flip” a witness.  “You want to let them know that you have the goods on
them,” he said.  Solyndra isn’t a “ripped-from-the-headlines” drama that
would merit an episode on “ Law & Order ,” the television series
that was based in part on cases handled by the Manhattan
district attorney’s office where Harrison previously worked.  Even so, Harrison said his prosecutorial instincts peaked
when company executives and Obama administration officials
offered assurances that the solar-panel maker was on track last
summer, instead of satisfying committee requests for documents.
Other recipients of U.S. guarantees now are under scrutiny,
although Harrison won’t identify the companies.  Clean Energy  Solyndra, which made solar panels of cylinder-shaped tubes,
fired its 1,100 workers before filing for bankruptcy protection
in September, becoming Exhibit A for Republicans who say the
administration’s support of clean energy wasted taxpayer dollars
from an Energy Department loan-guarantee program.  The White House blamed unforeseen market forces for
Solyndra’s collapse. After a year, the committee’s investigation
has turned into a “fishing expedition,” administration
officials and congressional Democrats say.  “It is troubling that House members would use their
investigative authority and taxpayer resources to seek a
political advantage,”  Eric Schultz , a White House spokesman,
said in an e-mail, referring to news reports that House Speaker
 John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, has made oversight of the
administration’s policies a priority. He declined to comment on
Harrison’s role in the investigation.  Energy, OMB  After two congressional subpoenas, Harrison and his team
have compiled more than 187,000 pages of communications and
other documents from the White House and federal agencies that
had an oversight role, including the Energy Department, which
approved the 2009 loan guarantee, and the Office of Management
and Budget, which reviewed the risk of backing the company. The
panel set today for the White House to comply with a November
subpoena for all Solyndra-related documents.  Investigators have also conducted nine interviews with
administration officials, according to Schultz.  The information doesn’t back up Republican assertions that
the White House may have intervened in the award as a favor to
 George Kaiser , the fundraiser for President Barack Obama and
Oklahoma billionaire whose foundation was a major investor in
Solyndra, Schultz said.  Kaiser told congressional aides during a two-hour interview
that he never lobbied for Solyndra, according to a letter House
Democrats released in November.  Document Access  Harrison isn’t willing to concede the point, noting that he
hasn’t had access to all the documents he wants. A subcommittee
meeting scheduled for Feb. 17 to consider additional subpoenas
was canceled after the White House agreed to let four officials
speak with the congressional investigators.  Representative  Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and
chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee, has said the
investigation has revealed a cozy relationship between the White
House and Solyndra’s investors.  “If our investigation ends up showing that there was no
quid pro quo, then great,” said Harrison, who oversees a team
of 12 people, including a forensic accountant. “I still think
it’s an open question.”  Harrison’s career path is unusual in  Washington , where
staffers typically start as government interns or low-ranking
aides and work their way up.  After graduating from Yale University and American
University’s Washington School of Law, Harrison, a Republican,
joined the  New York  district attorney’s office under Robert Morgenthau, who held the post for 34 years until his 2009
retirement.  ‘T-Bone’  Harrison’s determination in pursuit of cases, like a dog
clenching food, earned him the nickname “T-bone” among
colleagues, said Jack Smith, who worked with Harrison in both
the district attorney’s office and later in the U.S. Attorney’s
eastern district New York branch.  “Todd is all about the facts,” Smith, who now leads the
U.S. Justice Department public integrity division in Washington,
said in an interview. “If someone in my family was the victim
of a crime, I would want Todd to be the prosecutor.”  One case Harrison investigated involved a young couple that
prosecutors said at the spur of the moment decided to strangle
the girl’s father.  The couple waited in the house for the mother to come home,
then strangled her. Both bodies apparently sat in the apartment
for days until being dumped in the  East River . The couple
eventually pleaded guilty.  ‘Lie a Little Bit’  Harrison joined the U.S. Attorney’s office for the eastern
district of New York in 2002, where he was deputy chief of the
violent crimes and terrorism division. There, he led an
investigation into a plot to blow-up the Herald Square subway
stop in  Manhattan . In that case, he said he persuaded one of two
plotters to testify against the other.  “In an interrogation like that, you want them to lie a
little bit,” Harrison said, describing his technique for
getting a suspect to flip into a witness. “You can then
immediately trip them up, confront them with their lies, sort of
smack ‘em in the face a little bit that way, and in theory
you’ll get the truth after that.”  Harrison said he was attracted to the prosecutor job
because it was about doing the right thing. He said it also was
a rush for a young, smart, self-described “cocky” attorney who
wasn’t afraid to square off with judges with three decades more
experience.  “My mom told me at a young age that I would probably be a
lawyer,” he said. “I don’t think she meant it as a compliment,
frankly.”  ‘Next Shiny Object’  Harrison said the committee’s investigation has expanded
beyond Solyndra to other companies that received U.S. loan
guarantees. He won’t identify which recipients for fear of
affecting their operations.  He said he’s determined to maintain focus on the Energy
Department loan-guarantee program, and not be distracted by the
“next shiny object” that often sidetracks congressional
oversight.  “We’re not done with the investigation,” he said.
Recalling lessons as a prosecutor, Harrison said: “Everyone
says, ‘I wasn’t there’ until you show them a fingerprint from
the bank robbery and then they say, ‘Oh, yeah, I was there.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  