-- Sovereign, Corporate Bond Risk Rises, Credit-Default Swaps Show
-- B y   M i c h a e l   S h a n a h a n
-- 2012-02-21T11:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/sovereign-corporate-bond-risk-falls-credit-default-swaps-show.html
The cost of insuring against default
on European sovereign bonds rose on concern the 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) bailout for  Greece  will fail to resolve the
region’s debt crisis.  The Markit iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-
default swaps on 15 governments increased eight basis points to
342 basis points at 11:26 a.m. in London. An increase signals
deterioration in perceptions of  credit quality .  The Greek government’s decision to introduce legislation
for so-called collective action clauses, allowing it to enforce
losses on bondholders, makes it more likely that default swaps
on the nation’s debt will be triggered. An International Swaps &
Derivatives Association official said in an interview that the
group is monitoring the situation “diligently.”  “Given the vulnerable state of the  Greek economy , the
failure to implement earlier reforms and patience running thin
amongst its European partners there will be plenty of further
crises,” according to Elisabeth Afseth, a fixed-income analyst
at Investec Capital Markets in London.  As much as $3.2 billion of default insurance tied to Greek
debt may be trigged if the CACs are used because all investors
would be bound by a majority agreement to accept a proposed debt
restructuring. Policy makers previously rejected the possibility
of a  credit event  that would trigger swaps, arguing it would
encourage traders to bet against indebted nations and worsen the
crisis.  ISDA Rules  The introduction of the clauses doesn’t in itself trigger
default swaps, though using them does, according to ISDA rules.  The cost of insuring against losses on corporate debt also
rose, with contracts on the Markit iTraxx Crossover Index of 50
companies with mostly high-yield credit ratings climbing 7.5
basis points to 575.5, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The Markit iTraxx Europe Index of 125 companies with
investment-grade ratings rose 2.25 basis points to 133.5 basis
points. The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers increased nine basis points to 222 and
the subordinated gauge was 10 higher at 372.5.  A basis point on a credit-default swap protecting 10
million euros of debt from default for five years is equivalent
to 1,000 euros a year. Swaps pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent
should a borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Shanahan  in  London  at 
 Mshanahan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  