-- Stanford Illness Halts Trial After Tax Lawyer Testifies About Secret Loans
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-21T22:13:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/stanford-illness-halts-trial-after-tax-lawyer-testifies-about-secret-loans.html
Internal Revenue Service auditors
knew about hundreds of millions of dollars R.  Allen Stanford 
borrowed from his Antiguan bank to fund an array of private
ventures, according to a tax lawyer who worked on the audits.  “In 1999, the IRS position was these were valid loans and
should be treated as valid loans” between the bank and Stanford
and between Stanford and his other companies, Larry Campagna, a
tax partner with  Chamberlain Hrdlicka , testified in the
financier’s defense today in federal court in Houston before
proceedings were halted for the day because Stanford fell ill.  Prosecutors claim Stanford secretly borrowed $2 billion
from investor savings at Antigua-based Stanford International
Bank Ltd. to finance an extravagant lifestyle and speculative
ventures ranging from Caribbean airlines, real estate
developments and cricket tournaments. CD buyers were told their
funds were held in safe, liquid investments.  U.S. securities regulators seized Stanford’s operations on
suspicion of fraud in February 2009. Stanford, 61, is fighting
charges he defrauded investors of $7 billion through what the
government claims were bogus Antiguan CDs. His trial is in its
fifth week in federal court in Houston.  No ‘Free Rein’  Campagna told jurors that IRS auditors were already in
Stanford’s offices examining his personal and corporate tax
returns when Chamberlain Hrdlicka was hired to appeal some IRS
rulings in 2003. Under questioning by prosecutors, the tax
attorney said the auditors weren’t necessarily given “free
rein” to look at any documents they wanted.  “Nobody at the IRS has unlimited access to anything,” he
testified.  Campagna said the IRS didn’t seek fraud penalties on any of
the Stanford returns auditors examined for the years 1999
through 2003. He said the company was still negotiating with the
IRS over subsequent years’ returns when the businesses were
seized by regulators.  Jurors also heard testimony by genealogical researcher
Karen Pittman, a college librarian Stanford paid to investigate
his ancestry for links to  Stanford University  founder Leeland
Stanford.  Pittman said she found evidence she felt indicated the two
men shared a common ancestor in  England  during the 1600s. Under
questioning by prosecutors, she said that after two years of
research, she couldn’t “definitively” state the two men were
related.  Blood Ties  Earlier in the trial, prosecutors told jurors that Stanford
University has denied any linkage between its founder and the
Texas financier. Allen Stanford often touted such blood ties in
promotional materials given to investors.  After Stanford became ill today, U.S. District Judge David Hittner asked the jury to return tomorrow.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 