-- State-Based Education Reform Needs Tough Common Standards: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-21T00:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/state-based-education-reform-needs-tough-common-progress-standards-view.html
The Barack Obama administration has
begun issuing long-awaited waivers giving states some
flexibility in complying with the No Child Left Behind education
law. But with the exception of politicians, educators and
parents in the 11 states that have received them, nobody seems
very pleased with the changes.  Advocates for the disadvantaged raise concerns that poor
and minority children will be forgotten under the new regime,
which will allow approved states to set their own benchmarks on
school performance and improvement. Conservatives say the
conditions attached are a new federal intrusion into states’
prerogatives. And Washington politicians of both parties claim
that the executive branch has overstepped its bounds.  The good news is that all of these concerns are overstated.
The bad news is that the waivers, issued by Education Secretary
 Arne Duncan , will do little to promote much-needed comprehensive
reform in American public schools.  The goal of NCLB -- not actually a new law but an ambitious
2002 re-authorization of the Lyndon B. Johnson-era  Elementary
and Secondary Education Act  -- was to use federal money as a
carrot and sanctions as a stick to push states to set high
standards for school improvement and establish concrete measures
of student performance. By this yardstick, it has been a
qualified success.  Law Needs Updating  Nonetheless, any legislation a decade old will show cracks
in its foundations, and No Child Left Behind has more than its
share. The one that led to the current turning point was a
mandate that all U.S. children reach proficiency in math and
language arts by 2014, a requirement that even the law’s authors
must have realized was unachievable. They assumed Congress would
move to amend and reauthorize the act well before that deadline.
Congress didn’t. Duncan acted. And we don’t blame him, even if
the move comes close to crossing the executive-legislative
divide.  Despite all the hoopla, the waivers simply aren’t that big
a change from the requirements of No Child Left Behind. Rather,
they continue the federal shift away from the old law’s emphasis
on punishments, such as closing schools that fail to meet annual
progress requirements, and toward the incentive-laden approach
of the administration’s Race to the Top grant-making initiative.  When the administration announced its intent to issue
waivers last summer, our greatest concern was that it not give
states so much flexibility that standards would be watered down
to the point of meaninglessness. We are relieved that the states
(for the most part high achievers under NCLB) will still need to
provide evidence of improvement based on “college-and-career-
ready standards,” and that the Education Department made several
of them revise their applications to provide greater detail on
measures to ensure compliance. Rigor remains.  But a Band-Aid is not going to suffice. States and schools
will remain in limbo until Congress passes an improved version
of the education act aimed at consolidating the gains of the
last decade.  Closing Achievement Gaps  There are many areas for improvement. For example, No Child
Left Behind has encouraged teachers and administrators to worry
less about nurturing high-achieving students than about meeting
“ adequate yearly progress ” targets and getting as many students
rated “proficient” as possible. The law has also proved highly
arbitrary in punishing schools that failed to close achievement
gaps between regular pupils and those in special education, or
between native speakers of English and those learning it as a
second language. Little has been done to shed light on why the
achievement gap between girls and boys is widening, why many top
students fail to maintain their  elite performance  and why many
minority students fare poorly even at high-achieving suburban
schools.  Given public sentiment and the Republican-controlled House,
the centerpiece of any new law will probably be to grant states
more freedom to become laboratories of reform. We have no
problem with that, so long as they set rigorous benchmarks for
student and school performance and let parents know what they
are doing. The question is who will set those standards.  Conservatives are adamantly opposed to federally
administered benchmarks, and many have promoted the  Common Core
State Standards  initiative, a laudable project led largely by
governors of the 45 states that have signed on to the effort.
But the Common Core has its own flaws. Some early supporters
complain that entrenched educational interests have dumbed down
the standards.  A  study  by the Pioneer Institute for Public Policy
Research, a Massachusetts-based group that promotes free-market
solutions, found that switching to Common Core would water down
language benchmarks in Massachusetts and  California , and that
for algebra I and II and geometry, the content “shows low
academic expectations for its definition of ‘college readiness.’
"  Battling Over Turf  Another concern is that that ideology and turf battles will
stand in the way of what everyone wants: better schools. Obama’s
budget, released last week, included a sensible measure to tie
$5 billion in federal spending on teacher pay and tenure to
performance instead of seniority. Republicans might have been
expected to laud the new direction. Yet  John Kline  of  Minnesota ,
the chairman of the House Education and the Workforce Committee,
criticized the White House for meddling in state and local
affairs.  States can’t have it both ways. If they want the money made
available by No Child Left Behind, they will have to accept a
federal role in K-12 education. We applaud the initiative they
are showing in taking the lead on education reform, and hope
Congress begins debate, without delay, on  two bills  that Kline
has presented. But without some baseline agreement on robust
national standards, the U.S. risks falling further behind in
global educational achievement.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 