-- States With Raw-Milk Sales Have More Outbreaks, Study Shows
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-02-21T22:24:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/states-with-raw-milk-sales-have-more-outbreaks-study-shows-1-.html
States that allow raw milk sales
have more than twice as many dairy-related disease outbreaks as
states with prohibitions on such unpasteurized products, a
 Centers for Disease Control and Prevention  study showed.  The rate of incidents caused by raw milk, cheese and yogurt
was 150 times greater than outbreaks linked to pasteurized milk,
according to the Atlanta-based CDC’s study, published today in
the journal  Emerging Infectious Diseases . The 13-year review
examined outbreaks from 1993 to 2006 in all 50 U.S. states.  Unpasteurized dairy has gained popularity by consumers who
say raw milk strengthens the immune system and provides other
health benefits. Twenty states ban raw milk sales in some form.  “Restricting the sale of raw  milk products  is likely to
reduce the number of outbreaks and can help keep people
healthier,” Robert Tauxe, deputy director of the CDC’s Division
of Foodborne, Waterborne and Environmental Diseases, said in a
statement.  Dairy caused 4,413 illnesses, 239 hospitalizations and
three deaths, according to the study. In 60 percent of the
outbreaks, state health officials determined raw milk products
were the cause.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  banned the interstate
sale of raw milk in 1987 and has investigated farmers and co-op
owners who provide raw milk products. A federal court this month
awarded the FDA an injunction against Daniel Allgyer, an Amish
farmer in Kinzers, Pennsylvania, to bar him from interstate
distribution of raw milk. He can still sell the products in
 Pennsylvania .  Disguised Transaction  Allowing buyers to participate in a cow share -- where
consumers purchase part of the animal and then receive product -
- is “merely a subterfuge to create a transaction disguised as
the sale of raw milk to consumers,” according to the Feb. 2
decision from a federal judge in U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania. The milk transported across
state lines “constitutes a sale” legally regulated by the FDA.  The agency spent about two years investigating Allgyer.  Most recently, 77 people in four states have been sickened
as of Feb. 16 in a campylobacter outbreak from raw milk produced
by Family Cow dairy in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania, according to
the Center for Infectious Disease Research and Policy at the
 University of Minnesota  in  Minneapolis  and the Pennsylvania
Health Department. Campylobacter is a bacterial infection that
causes diarrhea and vomiting.  Connection Unproven  “Raw milk didn’t make people sick, campylobacter did,”
Edwin Shank, who co-owns the  dairy , said in an interview.
“That’s an important distinction. Whenever its raw milk, people
want to vilify raw milk and say don’t drink it. They don’t say
the same thing about cantaloupe or spinach or peanut butter.”  Family Cow said on its website that “we are skeptical if
this apparently powerful diarrhea bug we are hearing about is
actually connected to our farm or if it was something going
around in other communities not in any way connected to us.”  Illnesses from raw milk are a small portion of foodborne
illnesses, said Sally Fallon Morell, president of the Weston A.
Price Foundation, a non-profit nutrition research group in
 Washington  that works for universal access to raw milk.  “There are not enough outbreaks to see a pattern,” she
said in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  