-- India Stock Futures Swing Between Gains, Losses on Debt
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-02-21T11:59:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/stocks-climb-to-seven-month-high-as-greek-debt-deal-reached-bhel-advances.html
Indian stocks rose to their highest
level in almost seven months after European finance ministers
reached an agreement on a second bailout package for  Greece  to
shield the region from a precedent-setting default.  Bharat Heavy Electricals Ltd. (BHEL) , the biggest producer of
power equipments, rose to a three-month high as the government
is likely to approve a proposal to levy a 19 percent import tax
to help local companies compete for orders with Chinese rivals,
Power Secretary P. Uma Shankar said.  Tata Steel Ltd. (TATA) , the
largest producer, and  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) , the nation’s
most valuable company, both surged at least 2.5 percent each.  The BSE  India   Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, rose 0.8 percent
to 18,428.61 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Mumbai, its highest level
since July 27. The  measure  has rebounded 21 percent from its low
in December, crossing the 20 percent mark that signals a  bull
market , as slowing consumer prices, a strengthening rupee and
the first reduction in banks’ reserve ratios since 2009 spurred
foreigners to buy stocks.  “The near-term payment crisis with Greece, Italy or Spain
has been averted, and for some time we will see liquidity being
benign globally and the rally continuing in most asset classes
globally,” Nirmal Jain, chairman of brokerage  India Infoline
Ltd. (IIFL) , told Bloomberg UTV today.  Euro-region finance ministers awarded 130 billion euros
($173 billion) in aid, engineered the central bank profits
transfer and coaxed investor representatives into providing more
debt relief in an exchange offer meant to tide Greece past a
bond redemption next month. The EU is India’s biggest trading
partner, according to the nation’s trade ministry.  The assistance brings to at least 386 billion euros the
sums spent or committed to save Greece, Ireland and Portugal
from bankruptcy, and to shield  Europe  from a financial cascade.  Fund Flows  Overseas  investors  bought a net  $121 million  of Indian
stocks on Feb. 17, taking their investment this year to $5
billion, data from the regulator show. They pulled out $512
million in 2011, contributing to the 25 percent slump in the
Sensex, its second-worst annual loss. Developing-nation stock
funds lured $19 billion this year, compared with outflows of $34
billion in 2011, Citigroup Inc. said in a Feb. 17 note.  “The big difference between this year and the last is
liquidity and that’s been driving the markets,” said  Arun Kejriwal , a director at Kejriwal Research & Investment Services
in Mumbai. “It’s been a party out there for investors this year
and the Europe news has added to it.”  The S&P CNX  Nifty (NIFTY)  Index on the National Stock Exchange of
India added 0.8 percent to 5,607.15. The  BSE 200 Index (BSE200)  advanced
0.7 percent to 2,278.33, its highest level since July. The
market was closed yesterday for a public holiday.  Import Duty  Bharat Heavy jumped 4.8 percent to 318 rupees on
expectations the government will raise duty on imports to help
it compete with overseas rivals. India’s cabinet may approve a
proposal to increase duty on imports of generation equipment to
19 percent to help local manufacturers Bharat Heavy and  Larsen &
Toubro Ltd. (LT) , a government official said. Chinese suppliers have
won orders from Reliance Power Ltd. and Adani Power Ltd. as
India seeks to add 100,000 megawatts in capacity by 2017.  “India has been the best-performing Asian market year-to-
date and we believe the strong performance would continue as the
liquidity driven rally is now getting the policy support and
corporate earnings stability,” CLSA Asia Pacific Markets
analysts Mahesh Nandurkar and Bhavesh Shah wrote in an report
today. CLSA raised its Sensex target for the year ending in
March 2013 to 20,800.  Tata Steel added 2.8 percent to 491.5 rupees and Reliance
increased 3.1 percent to 843.55 rupees.  State Bank of India , the
biggest lender, gained 1.5 percent to 2,452.45 rupees, extending
this year’s gains to 51 percent, the second-best performer on
the 30-member Sensex.  Kingfisher Slumps  Kingfisher Airlines Ltd. (KAIR)  added 0.4 percent. The airline
owned by billionaire Vijay Mallya erased an intraday plunge of
as much as 20 percent after Bloomberg UTV said, citing unnamed
sources, lenders may give it about 10 billion rupees as working
capital loan. Tax authorities froze Kingfisher’s bank accounts
forcing it to cancel as many as 32 daily flights since Feb. 17,
the airline said Feb. 18.  “The shares may have gained, but Kingfisher as a brand is
losing its value,”  Jagannadham Thunuguntla , chief strategist at
New Delhi-based SMC Global Securities Ltd., said by phone.
“They have to get their act together or they might run out of
time fast.”  Jet Airways (India) Ltd. (JETIN) , the nation’s biggest airline, and
discount carrier  SpiceJet Ltd. (SJET)  both surged on speculation
Kingfisher may collapse following more than 10 quarters of
 losses  caused by price wars and higher  fuel  costs. Kingfisher,
which has cut about 15 percent of services, expects to resume
full operations this week, it said on Feb. 18.  Jet rallied 7.3 percent to 352.8 rupees, extending this
year’s advance to 108 percent. SpiceJet jumped 10 percent to 27
rupees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  