-- Most Swiss Stocks Decline After Greek Aid Agreement
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2012-02-21T16:55:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/stocks-in-switzerland-decline-after-deal-on-greek-aid-abb-shares-retreat.html
Most  Swiss stocks  retreated as
investors weighed euro-area leaders’ agreement on a second aid
package for Greece.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s biggest power-grid supplier, slipped
1.3 percent. Zurich Financial Services and  Swiss Life Holding AG (SLHN) 
slid more than 1.5 percent.  Schindler Holding AG (SCHP)  climbed 1.1
percent after forecasting a higher profit in 2012. Uster
Technologies Ltd. jumped to a four-year high after Toyota
Industries Corp. raised its offer for the company.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of  Switzerland ’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, fell 0.1 percent to 6,237.82
at the close in Zurich. More than two shares retreated for each
that gained. The gauge has still advanced  5.1 percent this year
 as the  European Central Bank  increased lending to banks and U.S.
economic reports topped forecasts. The broader Swiss Performance
Index lost 0.3 percent today.  “It remains unclear if the Greek tragedy has ended
permanently,” Viola Stork, an analyst at Helaba Landesbank
Hessen-Thueringen in  Frankfurt , wrote in a report today. “What
is decisive is not the approved reform measures and the
financial assurances, but the implementation of reforms and
increasing the competitiveness of the country.”  European finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) bailout package for  Greece . The deal includes a
53.5 percent writedown for investors in the nation’s debt,
according to Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who led the talks
in Brussels.  Deal Implementation  The odds that Greece will remain encumbered by debt were
illustrated by an analysis by European and International
Monetary Fund officials that highlighted what could go wrong
with a country unable to grow out of its fiscal woes by
devaluing its currency.  “Given the risks, the Greek program may thus remain
accident-prone, with questions about sustainability hanging over
it,” the analysis said. In a worst-case scenario Greece’s debt
might balloon to 160 percent of gross domestic product in 2020,
it concluded.  The deal is “looking more and more like a ‘buy the rumor,
sell the fact’ type event,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional
trader at IG Markets in  Melbourne .  Swiss exports, adjusted for inflation and seasonal swings,
fell 3.4 percent in January from the previous month, when they
gained a revised 6.4 percent, the Federal Customs Office in Bern
said today.  ABB, Zurich Financial  ABB fell 1.3 percent to 19.04 francs as a gauge of European
industrial goods companies was among the worst performers of the
19 industry groups in the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP) .  Zurich Financial, Switzerland’s largest insurer, lost 1.6
percent to 225.80 francs. Swiss Life declined 1.7 percent to
101.70 francs and  Baloise Holding AG (BALN)  dropped 1.9 percent to
73.10 francs.  Schindler rose 1.1 percent to 110.20 francs after the maker
of escalators said full-year net income fell to 611 million
francs from 711 million francs a year earlier, citing a strong
franc and restructuring costs. The average analyst estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey called for 613 million francs. The company
also said it expects to achieve “significantly higher” net
income for 2012.  Uster Technologies rallied 5.3 percent to 46.05 francs, its
highest since January 2008, after Toyota raised its offer price
for the supplier of textile testing instruments to 44 francs a
share. Uster said it’ll recommend the increased offer to its
shareholders.  Novartis, Transocean Climb  Novartis AG (NOVN)  rose 1.3 percent to 52.40 francs after the
company agreed to pay as much as $440 million for the rights to
an experimental drug against hepatitis C, joining Gilead
Sciences Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. in seeking deals to
gain medicines against the virus.  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , the world’s biggest operator of offshore
drilling rigs, advanced 4.1 percent to 45.35 francs as Alan Laws, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in Denver, recommended
“buying the dip,” saying the company is now better positioned
to settle its disputes with BP Plc as the dividend funding no
longer affects free  cash flow . The stock dropped the most in
more than two months yesterday after saying it won’t recommend a
dividend payment at its 2012 annual shareholder meeting.  Burckhardt Compression Holding AG (BCHN) , the maker of compressors
for the oil and chemical industry, climbed 4.8 percent to 262
francs, its highest price since July, after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. added the stock to its “conviction buy” list and raised
its price estimate for the stock by 21 percent to 350 francs.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  