-- Strauss-Kahn Is Questioned by Police in French Prostitution Investigation
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-02-21T09:41:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/strauss-kahn-meets-with-police-in-french-prostitution-probe.html
Dominique Strauss-Kahn  is being
questioned by French police in Lille investigating a
prostitution ring, a spokeswoman for the prosecutors said today.  Strauss-Kahn turned himself in for questioning at 8:55 a.m.
local time, a spokeswoman for the Lille prosecution said,
declining to be named according to office policy. He faces
possible charges of aiding in procuring prostitutes and
benefiting from embezzlement, she said.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, gave up his post as managing director of
the  International Monetary Fund  last year after being arrested
in  New York  for sexually assaulting a hotel maid. Prosecutors
dropped the case over concerns about his accuser’s credibility.
After the one-time French presidential favorite returned to his
home country, accusations made there by an author were also
dropped for lack of evidence of attempted rape and the expiry of
the statute of limitations on sexual assault.  Strauss-Kahn’s lawyers are with the former IMF chief, the
spokeswoman said. He may be held as long as 48 hours under
French law. Prostitution and paying for sex are legal in  France ,
while procuring prostitutes for another is not.  The Manhattan hotel maid has filed a civil case against
Strauss-Kahn in the Bronx, which her lawyers have said may be
buttressed by information from the Lille probe.  ‘Spiteful Insinuations’  Investigators want to determine whether Strauss-Kahn knew
the women were prostitutes and if so, how they were paid. French
builder  Eiffage SA (FGR)  filed an embezzlement complaint after an
internal probe found an employee spent as much as 50,000 euros
($66,000) to pay for women to travel as far as  Washington  to
have sex with Strauss-Kahn. He is also being questioned on
whether he helped arrange for women to attend sex parties, or
otherwise aided in organizing them while knowing they were
prostitutes.  Strauss-Kahn has denied wrongdoing in relation to the
prostitution investigation and said in a Nov. 11 statement from
his lawyers that he wanted to be questioned, “to put an end to
the dangerous and spiteful insinuations” in the media.  The Lille investigation has led to charges against eight
people, including local hotel officials and a local police
chief, according to the spokeswoman.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  