-- Swiss Companies Chase Global Takeovers From Alpine Perch
-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-21T08:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/swiss-companies-chase-global-takeovers-from-alpine-perch.html
Switzerland  is flexing its muscle.  The Alpine nation, with about 2 percent of the U.S.’s
population, is running neck-and-neck with the world’s biggest
economy in global dealmaking this year with a combined $48
billion of takeovers, including the largest:  Glencore
International Plc (GLEN) ’s $38 billion planned purchase of  Xstrata Plc. (XTA)   Underpinned by solid earnings and balance sheets, Swiss
companies from drugmaker  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  to engineering company
 ABB Ltd. (ABBN)  are stepping up acquisitions, taking advantage of the 7
percent gain in the Swiss franc against the euro in the past
year and the relative weakness of European competitors stymied
by the debt crisis.  Nestle SA (NESN) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  are
among those with cash to spend on deals.  Swiss corporations “see this window of opportunity to go
for acquisitions,” said Lorenz Reinhard, who manages 5 billion
francs ($5.5 billion) in Swiss equities at  Pictet & Cie . in
Geneva. Strong balance sheets and the strength of the franc have
combined to produce “a unique situation,” he said.  Glencore’s planned takeover of Xstrata, Roche’s $5.7
billion hostile bid for diagnostics company Illumina Inc., and
ABB’s $3.9 billion acquisition of electrical circuit-maker
Thomas & Betts Corp. are the three largest deals out of Europe
this year, with the latter targets in the U.S. In total, Swiss
deals account for 59 percent of the $81 billion of takeovers
announced by all western European acquirers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Profit Margins  Switzerland’s 20 biggest listed companies have an average
profit margin of 18 percent, almost double the 9.3 percent
 average  of the 309 European companies listed on the Euro Stoxx
Index, according to Bloomberg data. They also have big cash
piles to tap after boosting cash and near-cash items about 43
percent to 214 billion francs since 2009, based on the latest
company filings.  More deals are in the pipeline. Vevey, Switzerland-based
Nestle, which has more than $8 billion in cash, is vying with
Danone SA for Pfizer Inc.’s infant-nutrition business, which may
fetch more than $10 billion, people familiar with the situation
said this month. ABB Chief Executive Officer  Joe Hogan  said the
company could make acquisitions of up to $8 billion over the
next three years, according to Swiss weekly SonntagsZeitung.  Basel-based Syngenta, the world’s largest producer of
agricultural chemicals, has a “full mergers and acquisitions
team working continuously” on targets of different sizes, Chief
Financial Officer John Ramsay said on Feb. 8, while drugmaker
Novartis, with about $4 billion in cash reserves, has signaled
it’s also planning acquisitions.  Stock Market Strength  “There remain plenty of Swiss firms with sufficient
firepower to pursue large transactions both domestically and
abroad,” Patrik Kerler, head of mergers and acquisitions at
KPMG in Switzerland, wrote in the auditing firm’s annual M&A
Yearbook published last month.  Swiss stocks are performing strongly, too, avoiding some of
the volatility holding back mergers elsewhere. After falling
about 20 percent, the SMI has recovered all of the losses that
followed Greek bailout talks last July and has risen almost 8
percent above its level at the end of that month as of Feb. 20.
 Germany ’s benchmark DAX index remains 2.9 percent below its July
level and France’s CAC is 5.4 percent lower, while the U.K.’s
FTSE-100 is up just 2.2 percent.  “Swiss companies benefit from a perception of stability
from investors, who also understand that they need to be
aggressive internationally to grow,” said Lilach Nachum, a
professor of international business at the  City University  of
 New York ’s Baruch College.  Big Swiss companies are among the region’s most
internationally oriented, with Nestle getting more than 80
percent of its revenue outside  Europe . ABB, Roche and Novartis
all receive about 60 percent of their sales on other continents.  Currency Boost  Following deals in  Asia , like Nestle’s $1.7 billion
acquisition of Chinese confectioner Hsu Fu Chi International
last year, Swiss companies are now more likely to make
acquisitions in the U.S., where they “see some gaps,” Pictet’s
Reinhard said.  Swiss takeovers abroad have been boosted by the surge in
the value of the franc, which has climbed against the euro in
the last year as investors seek refuge from economic turmoil.
That’s spurring Swiss companies to accelerate international
expansion as overseas targets get cheaper. The currency’s gain
to near-parity with the euro prompted the Swiss central bank to
declare an exchange ceiling of 1.20 francs per euro last year --
its first such intervention since the 1970s.  “A strong currency and balance sheets as well as the need
for growth abroad make Swiss companies buyers,” said Juerg Glesti, a partner in corporate finance at Deloitte AG based in
Zurich.  Tax Haven  To be sure, the Glencore-Xstrata deal is only Swiss in
name. The all-stock merger that makes up 81 percent of
Switzerland’s deal volume is set to take place between two
corporations with roots elsewhere that have been lured, along
with other companies in the energy and commodities industries,
by the country’s low taxes. The result, Baruch College’s Nachum
said, is that Switzerland accounts for a disproportionate share
of international M&A.  Transocean Ltd. and Weatherford International Ltd., oil-
services providers born in Louisiana and  Texas , respectively,
and the commodities trader Vitol Group, which traces its origins
to the Netherlands, have made Switzerland their home. Louis
Dreyfus Holding BV, a commodities trader that had its
headquarters in  France  for most of its 161-year history, has
also consolidated trading in Geneva. In a 2009 biography, its
late CEO Robert Louis-Dreyfus cited tax reasons for the move.  ‘Brighter Year’  While both Glencore and Xstrata are run by South African
citizens and listed in  London , the companies have their
headquarters just two miles apart in the mountainous canton of
Zug -- an area with lower corporate tax rates than others in
Switzerland. Their proposed deal, combining mining and trading
assets in places as far-flung as Australia and  Argentina , is
thus officially an all-Swiss affair.  The basic rate of  corporate income tax  in Zug is 15.4
percent, compared with 25 percent in the U.K. Tax policies like
that “have been shown to do remarkably well in attracting
international businesses,” Nachum added.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is the leading adviser to Swiss
acquirers over the last 12 months, followed by Morgan Stanley,
Citigroup Inc., Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
according to Bloomberg data. So far this year, Goldman and
Citigroup are tied for first.  Despite the sovereign debt crisis and risk of recession in
Europe, optimism for Swiss deals remains high, with  KPMG 
predicting “a brighter year” for M&A in 2012.  Swiss companies’ newfound confidence was on full display at
this year’s  World Economic Forum  at the Davos ski resort, an
event at which the global business elite typically discuss deals
far removed from their snowy host country. Instead, delegates
arriving for the first day of the Forum were greeted with a
surprising headline: Roche’s unsolicited bid for Illumina.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in London at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  