-- Syria Intensifies Homs Attack as Assad Accuses Foreign Sides
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-02-21T12:36:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/syrian-army-steps-up-homs-attack-as-assad-blames-foreign-sides-.html
Syria ’s army escalated its shelling
of the city of Homs as President Bashar al-Assad accused
“foreign sides” of providing weapons and money to rebels.  The army killed seven people this morning, including a
child, during a heavy bombardment of Homs, the U.K.-based Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights said in an e-mailed statement. The
city, under siege for almost three weeks, was hit by 200 tank
shells today, while 27 people were killed across the country,  Al
Arabiya  reported, citing opposition activists.  Government forces have intensified efforts to stamp out the
rebellion by using mortars, artillery and tanks. The  United
Nations  estimates more than 5,400 Syrians died last year as
loyalist forces cracked down on protests that began in March.
Twenty people were killed yesterday across the country,
according to the Syrian Observatory.  Assad accused unidentified foreign sides of providing
weapons and financial support to “armed terrorist groups” as
they seek to destabilize Syria, the official  Syrian Arab News
Agency  reported yesterday. The government has blamed the
violence on terrorists and foreign provocateurs.  Russia won’t take part in a meeting on Syria being held in
Tunis this week, the Foreign Ministry said on its website today.
The U.S., the European Union and the  Arab League , which backed a
UN resolution calling on Assad to step down in favor of an
interim government that would hold elections, will attend the
“Friends of Syria” meeting. Russia and  China  vetoed the
resolution earlier this month.  Increasing Pressure  The meeting will discuss tightening the economic
stranglehold around Syria, U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague 
told the  BBC  on Feb. 19.  The conflict is escalating into a civil war as more
soldiers defect and take up arms against Assad’s rule. About
40,000 people have deserted the regime’s 270,000-person security
forces, according to a Turkish Foreign Ministry official.  A group of armed rebels killed Mahmoud Ramadan, a
businessman in Aleppo, the country’s second-largest city, SANA
said. Ahmed Ramadan, a member of the opposition  Syrian National
Council’s  executive bureau, told Al Jazeera television that his
brother was killed by security agents for being an opponent of
the Assad regime.  The attack came a day after gunmen killed Public Prosecutor
Nidal Ghazal, Judge Mohammed Ziyadeh and their driver in Idlib.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  