-- U.K. Chefs at Smart Restaurants Offer Tips for London Cheap Eats
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-02-21T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/u-k-chefs-at-smart-restaurants-recommend-london-cheap-eats-richard-vines.html
London  restaurant prices are among
the highest in the world, yet you don’t always have to spend a
lot to eat well, even in the center of the city.  I asked almost 50 chefs and restaurateurs where they go for
cheap eats. Here’s what they had to say:  Tom Aikens  (Tom Aikens): “Polpo.  Russell Norman  is so
clever: He has created a handful of restaurants that are so
spot-on for the times, and his food concepts are so simple but
they work. Fun, urban, relaxed, inexpensive.”  Joel Antunes (Kitchen Joel Antunes): “Les Deux Salons.
Anthony Demetre’s cooking is outstanding and I think that their
set lunch menu at 15.95 pounds ($25.18) for three courses is a
phenomenal bargain.”  Jason Atherton (Pollen Street Social): “Meatliquor.
Yiannis Papoutsis has mastered the art of the perfect burger.
I’m so glad the  Meatwagon  has found a permanent residence in
central London.”  Pascal Aussignac (Cigalon): “Busaba Eathai is still
best.”  Sat Bains (Restaurant Sat Bains, Nottingham): “Bar Boulud
is a great relaxed restaurant where you can grab a brilliant
burger, charcuterie or a lavish slap up: Hits all the spots and
great drinks.”  Claude Bosi (Hibiscus): “Mien Tay, in Battersea.”  Daniel Boulud  (Bar Boulud): “Ottolenghi.”  Sally Clarke (Clarke’s): “Lucky Seven on Westbourne Park
Road,  Notting Hill , for a great hamburger. I go with my son
straight out of school, and it’s a treat for both of us.”  Anthony Demetre (Les Deux Salons): “Bocca Di Lupo is my
top favorite for a relatively cheap meal. That’s closely
followed by Kitchen Joel Antunes. He’s London’s unsung hero.”  Chris Galvin (Galvin Bistrot de Luxe): “28-50 in Fetter
Lane (the Texture boys) or the Delaunay.”  Alexis Gauthier (Gauthier Soho): “Cay Tre, Soho. It’s
really local to me and therefore an ideal place to eat between
lunch and dinner service. The food is delicious, good value and
they also care about the ingredients.”  Brett Graham  (The Ledbury): “Koya.”  Trevor Gulliver (St John Bread & Wine): “Chez Marcelle.
Kinda slow because Marcelle cooks everything herself and very
much in her own time.”  Des Gunewardena (Kensington Place/D&D London): “Princi. If
I have morning meetings in Soho I always drop in for a brioche
and a double-shot cappuccino.”  Skye Gyngell (ex-Petersham Nurseries): “Spuntino or Polpo
or any of those little hole-in-the-wall places of Russell
Norman. Also,  Maltby Street  on Saturday mornings. It’s an
incredibly lovely little market.”  Anna Hansen (Modern Pantry): “The Corner Room.”  Sam Harris (Zucca): “Jose, on Bermondsey Street. I often
drop in to see Jose for a quick bite to eat between services.”  Sam Hart  (Barrafina): “Koya serves only foot-trodden udon
noodles in a variety of combinations that are never less than
fabulous. At 7 pounds to 10 pounds for a huge bowl, this is
seriously good value.”  Angela Hartnett  (Murano): “Byron. They do great burgers,
and it’s quick service. Fish House is a good fish-and-chip shop
near  Victoria Park . It’s easy, old-style fish and chips.”  Mark Hix (Hix Belgravia): “Hung’s, on Wardour Street, is a
place I often go. They do a good tripe in special sauce. Koya on
Frith Street is good, too.”  Jacob Kenedy (Bocca Di Lupo): “Pitt Cue Co, Royal China
(dim sum at lunchtime), Mooli’s, Koya, Hot Stuff.”  Tom Kitchin (Kitchin, Edinburgh): “Polpo is good. I love
the informality, the happiness. I’m planning a visit to Terroirs
next.”  Pierre Koffmann (Koffmann’s): “L’Absinthe. It’s a simple
bistro but the food is good and the prices are low for food and
wine.”  Atul Kochhar (Benares): “Dishoom, near Leicester Square.”  Adam Perry Lang  (Barbecoa): “Applebee’s Fish at Borough
market, the prawn wrap. I can eat even when I have just finished
a meal.”  Jeremy Lee (Quo Vadis): “Brawn. A glass of something
delicious and a few wee plates at Brawn never fails to please.”  Rowley Leigh (Le Cafe Anglais): “I eat in the Chinese
restaurants in Queensway occasionally. Dim sum at the Royal
China at lunch and roast pork and spectacular rude waiters at
the Four Seasons and Kam Tong.”  Bruno Loubet (Bistrot Bruno Loubet): “Exmouth Market is a
great destination for a variety of world cuisines at a good
price. I can choose between a Jamaican curry, Ghanaian street
food or a buckwheat galette, all for around 6 pounds.”  Francesco Mazzei (L’Anima): “Yildiz, on Blackstock Road.
It’s a Turkish barbecue place and one of the few that does lamb
breast. It’s good meat and bread.”  Nuno Mendes (Viajante): “Koya,  Yum Bun  on Broadway Market,
Lucky Chip burgers, Rochelle Canteen and Big Apple Hot Dogs.”  David Moore  (L’Autre Pied): “Yalla Yalla. In the heart of
Soho, it’s a little corner of  Beirut , with authentic street food
in a cramped but hugely atmospheric setting. You must try the
sauteed chicken liver with garlic and pomegranate molasses.”  Russell Norman (Mishkin’s): “Morito, in Clerkenwell, or
Govinda’s, in the Hare Krishna Temple in Soho Street.”  Jamie Oliver  (Union Jacks): “Chipotle, on Baker Street, or
this great hot-dog place, Big Apple Hot Dogs, on Old Street.”  Ashley Palmer-Watts (Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal ): “Les
Deux Salons. I wouldn’t exactly call it cheap eats: It’s just
incredibly hard to beat the place for value.”  Stevie Parle (Dock Kitchen): “ Railroad , in Hackney, or
Tayyabs.”  Gary Rhodes  (Rhodes Twenty Four): “Princi in Soho. It’s
simple, but with great savory and sweet bites.”  Simon Rogan (Roganic): “Meatliquor. It’s the talk of the
town right now, is cheap, great fun and the burgers are
excellent. I like the Bohemian feel of it, all a bit off the
wall, and I love the corn dogs.”  Michel Roux Jr. (Le Gavroche): “Soif, in Clapham. I live
around the corner and it’s excellent value, good food. The head
chef (Colin Westal) used to work for me so it has to be good.”  Silvena Rowe (Quince): “Brawn. It’s the place I take all
my U.S. visitors.”  Mark Sargeant (Rocksalt): “Canteen. It’s a real slice of
British tradition in a smart, modern environment. They source
the best possible produce and it’s great value for money.”  Leonid Shutov (Bob Bob Ricard): “Burger & Lobster is
phenomenal. I love it. I also like Goodman. It’s not cheap but
it’s casual and informal, and the steak is fantastic.”  Rick Stein (Seafood Restaurant, Padstow): “Tayyabs, a
Pakistani restaurant in the East End. The saag lamb -- lamb and
spinach leaves, with garam masala, chili, garlic and ginger --is
excellent.”  Agnar Sverrisson (Texture): “Busaba Eathai. I love the
flavors and spices, and the food is fantastic value for money.”  Ben Tish (Opera Tavern): “Tayyabs. The food is cheap,
consistently good, and although the service can be a little
shaky at times, it’s all part of its noisy charm.”  Clive Watson (Village East): “Zucca, our neighbor on
Bermondsey Street. It’s reliable, memorable and no fuss.  A bowl
of Sam Harris’s pasta and a glass of  Lugana Superiore  is as good
as cheap eats with a seat gets in my little black book.”  Mickael Weiss (Coq d’Argent): “Franco Manca serves the
best pizza in London and the queue goes down much more quickly
than you think it will. One of the capital’s hidden gems.”  Alyn Williams (Alyn Williams at the Westbury): “Burger &
Lobster in Clarges Street. Twenty pounds for one of London’s
best burgers or an awesome lobster roll with chips is hard to
beat. Otherwise, I head to Chinatown for dim sum.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 