-- U.K. Green Bank Should Sell Green Bonds From 2013, Group Says
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-02-21T16:07:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/u-k-green-bank-should-sell-green-bonds-from-2013-group-says.html
The U.K.’s planned Green Investment
Bank should be able to issue bonds to help finance clean-energy
projects such as renewable technologies from April 2013, the
head of an environmental think-tank said.  “The earlier bonds are issued, the faster we should get
the Green Investment Bank leveraging off institutional investors
and deploying capital at the scale the low-carbon transition
needs to meet our carbon targets and economic imperatives,”
said Peter Young, chairman of the London-based Aldersgate Group.  Young, who has met with Treasury and other officials to
discuss the bank’s scale and progress, said he wanted to see the
institution issue green bonds early in 2013 to get longer-term
investors into environmental projects.  “The particular attraction of bonds is they’re a form of
financing that some of larger institutional investors feel
comfortable in trading in and investing in,” he said.  The government says at least 110 billion pounds ($174
billion) is needed by 2020 to replace aging power plants,
upgrade the grid and build renewable-energy projects. Lack of
appropriate finance might  threaten  the U.K.’s pace to a low-
carbon economy, Business Secretary Vince Cable has said.  A spokeswoman at the Department for Business, Innovation
and Skills said no decision had been taken and how the bank, as
an independent body, will borrow will be decided in due course.  The institution will be able to borrow from 2015 or 2016
provided the U.K.’s debt is falling as a percentage of economic
output, a criteria that Young said should be lifted.  “If the Green Investment Bank can show itself to be a
really robust institution making some good and sensible
decisions, I don’t see that deficit rule as being very
relevant,” he said.  All Party Support  The government is setting up the bank, supported by all
three political parties, with an initial 3 billion pounds to
spur investment in low-carbon technologies. That could leverage
a further 15 billion pounds, Chancellor  George Osborne  has said.  “To determine the best mechanism, government and the GIB
will need to consider the relative merits of different options,
including the cost of borrowing, and the ability and most
appropriate manner to access new types of investor,” the
spokeswoman for the business department said by e-mail.  “This will be particularly important given the risk
profile of investing in GIB debt,” she said. The bank’s
location will be decided this month, the government said. There
were  32 bids  from locations across the U.K. wanting to host.  The institution needs European Commission approval before
it can start. Under interim arrangements, the first investments
will be managed through a team in the business department until
that’s granted. The team, called U.K. Green Investments, is on
course to start in April, according to the spokeswoman.
Commission approval of the bank is expected early next year.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  