-- U.K. Stocks Fall From a Seven-Month High; Tullow Retreats
-- B y   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-02-21T17:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/u-k-stocks-erase-decline-after-greece-wins-second-bailout-croda-advances.html
U.K. stocks  dropped as investors
speculated that Greece will remain stricken by debt even after
the euro area’s finance ministers agreed to bail out the
Mediterranean nation for a second time.  Energy companies led declines, as  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW)  retreated
3.6 percent. William  Morrison (MRW)  Supermarkets Plc, the smallest of
the U.K.’s four largest food retailers, slid 0.8 percent after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. downgraded the stock.  Croda
International Plc (CRDA)  rose 4.5 percent after posting 2011 earnings
that beat analysts’ estimates.  The  FTSE 100 (UKX)  Index fell 17.05, or 0.3 percent, to 5,928.2
at the close in  London  as four stocks dropped for every one that
climbed. The gauge has still  rallied 20 percent  from last year’s
lowest level on Oct. 4. The benchmark measure jumped 0.7 percent
yesterday to its highest since July 8 as China cut its  banks’
reserve requirements . The FTSE All-Share Index also dropped 0.3
percent today, while Ireland’s ISEQ Index decreased 0.8 percent.  “There’s an element of traveling is better than
arriving,” said Gerard Lane, an equity strategist at Shore
Capital in Liverpool, England. “There wasn’t anything
surprising and there’s still a degree of doubt about whether the
agreement holds because the conditions for  Greece  to meet are
still quite difficult,” he said.  Greece’s Bailout Package  Euro-area finance ministers awarded Greece a 130 billion-
euro ($172 billion) rescue, coaxed private creditors to provide
more debt relief through a bond-swap offer and tapped into
European Central Bank profits to avert the single currency’s
first default. Investors will forgive 53.5 percent of their
principal and exchange remaining holdings for new Greek
 government bonds  and notes from the European Financial Stability
Facility, the International Institute of Finance said in a
statement today.  U.K. stocks declined as investors considered an
International Monetary Fund analysis that suggested Greece’s
debt will still swell to 160 percent of gross domestic product
in a worst-case scenario.  Britain posted its biggest  budget surplus  in four years in
January as Chancellor of the Exchequer George Osborne’s spending
cuts continued to take effect. Revenue exceeded spending by 7.75
billion pounds ($12.2 billion), compared with  a surplus  of 5.2
billion pounds a year earlier, the Office for National
Statistics said today.  Tullow Oil Drops  Tullow Oil retreated 3.6 percent to 1,543 pence after
Anadarko Petroleum Corp. failed to give a figure for the
potential reserves at a well it operates in  Sierra Leone . Tullow
owns a 20 percent stake in the Jupiter-1 well.  BG Group Plc (BG/)  slipped 1.9 percent to 1,480.5 pence.  Morrison lost 0.8 percent to 295 pence after Goldman Sachs
added the shares to its “conviction sell” list.  CSR Plc (CSR) , the U.K. maker of chips used in Nokia Oyj mobile
phones, tumbled 5.1 percent to 260.9 pence after it was
downgraded to “hold” from “buy” at Numis Securities Ltd. and
Canaccord Genuity Corp.  Croda International, the world’s second-largest maker of
cosmetic ingredients, advanced 4.5 percent to 2,123 pence after
posting pretax profit of 242.2 million pounds for 2011. That
exceeded the  average analyst estimate  for 239 million pounds.  ICAP Plc, the world’s largest broker of transactions
between banks, gained 1.6 percent to 395.8 pence after saying it
will buy Singapore-based Island Shipbrokers Pte Ltd. to expand
in Asia.  Admiral Group Plc (ADM) , the U.K. car insurer that owns the
confused.com website, climbed 3.2 percent to 1,043 pence after
its rating was raised to “outperform” from “neutral” at
Credit Suisse Group AG.  Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  jumped 7 percent to 1,453 pence after
CNBC-TV18 reported on its moneycontrol.com website that the
company may merge Sterlite Industries India Ltd. and Sesa Goa
Ltd. The report said Vedanta will also transfer its 38.8 percent
stake in Cairn India Ltd. to the combined entity.  “Vedanta’s stated strategy is to simplify and consolidate
its corporate structure,” the company said in a statement
following the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  