-- U.K. Seeks Permission From Supreme Court to Appeal Solar Ruling
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-02-21T17:45:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/u-k-seeks-permission-from-supreme-court-to-appeal-solar-ruling.html
The U.K. government said today it’s
seeking permission from the  Supreme Court  to appeal against
decisions by two lower courts that its planned early cuts to
solar subsidies are unlawful.  The  High Court  ruled in December that plans for a Dec. 12
cut in the so-called feed-in tariffs paid for electricity from
solar panels were illegal. The government then lost a case at
the Court of Appeal to overturn that decision. The Department of
Energy and  Climate Change  said today in an e-mailed statement
that ministers “respectfully disagree” with the last ruling.  “We have today lodged an application with the Supreme
Court seeking that court’s permission to appeal,” the
department said. “We want to see the available funding spread
as far and wide as possible, making FITs a scheme for the many
not a scheme for the few.”  Ministers say the cuts are needed to stem a surge in solar
power that threatened to eat up the subsidy budget, which also
covers small-scale wind and hydropower plants and biomass
burners. Through uncertainty created by legal proceedings, the
government may be limiting solar installations before March 3,
when it has said it will definitely bring subsidy cuts in.  The case was brought against the government by Solarcentury
Holdings Ltd., Homesun Ltd. and the environmental group Friends
of the Earth after ministers sought to cut the so-called feed-in
tariffs paid for electricity from solar panels on Dec. 12,
before the end of a consultation on the reductions.  ‘Cynical Exercise’  “If we are lucky this is just a cynical exercise to limit
the market to 3rd March and they will withdraw in a few weeks,”
Solarcentury Chairman Jeremy Leggett said in an e-mailed
statement.  The government on Feb. 9 outlined plans for regular reviews
of the tariffs to provide predictability for the industry, and
said it’s targeting 22 gigawatts of solar power in the U.K. by
2020, more than 20 times the current level. Cuts in the
subsidies will enable more capacity to be installed within the
existing budget, according to the energy department.  “A successful appeal will allow ministers to slash
renewable energy subsidies at any time,” Friends of the Earth
Executive Director Andy Atkins said in an e-mailed statement.
“This misguided appeal will only add to the uncertainty
hovering over the renewable clean  energy industry .”  Wasting Money  Climate Change Minister  Greg Barker  on Jan. 23 said in
Parliament that the government had so far incurred 66,400 pounds
($105,000) in legal fees fighting the case. Caroline Flint,
energy spokeswoman for the opposition  Labour Party , said the
government was wasting taxpayer money on the case.  “This government has already wasted tens of thousands of
pounds on legal fees in a desperate attempt to save face over
their chaotic mismanagement of the cuts to the feed-in tariff
for solar power,” Flint said. “Taxpayers should not be made to
foot the bill for this government’s incompetence.”  In January, the then Secretary of State for Energy and
Climate Change,  Chris Huhne , told lawmakers in parliament that
the government was “spending a few thousand pounds in order to
save consumers 1.5 billion pounds,” the estimated lifetime
costs of projects that might have been installed from December
through March under the old subsidy levels without the
uncertainty created by the ongoing legal battle.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  