-- U.K. FSA Is Reviewing Cross-Border Allegations in Libor Probe
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-02-21T09:45:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/u-k-fsa-is-reviewing-cross-border-allegations-in-libor-probe.html
Britain’s Financial Services
Authority is investigating “significant cross-border allegations
in regards to Libor.”  Tracey McDermott, the regulator’s acting head of
enforcement, publicly disclosed the probe for the first time in
a speech in  London  today.  The U.K. regulator is probing whether banks’ proprietary-
trading desks exploited information they had about the direction
of Libor to trade interest-rate derivatives, potentially
defrauding their firms’ counterparties, two people familiar have
said.  The rate, a benchmark for about $360 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
daily on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London.
The lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from
one another for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss
francs. After a predetermined number of quotes are excluded,
those remaining are averaged and published for each currency by
the BBA before noon.  Regulators worldwide are investigating whether banks
attempted to manipulate the London, Tokyo and euro interbank
offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor. The U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission, U.S. Commodity Futures
Trading Commission,  U.S. Department of Justice , and  Japan ’s
Financial Services Agency are all involved. The probes are being
led separately, with regulators sharing some information.  E-Mail Code Words  The U.K. FSA is investigating whether banks’ Libor
submissions reflected their actual cost of borrowing and is
scrutinizing market data for potential anomalies, another person
familiar with the investigation said. The watchdog is scanning
e-mails between bankers for code words that could be used to
manipulate Libor, a person familiar with the case has said.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  are among banks that have said they’ve received
requests for information from global regulators. RBS, the U.K.’s
largest government-owned lender, has dismissed at least four
employees in connection with the probes, two people briefed on
the move have said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 