-- U.K. Insider-Trading Suspects Said to Face FSA Charging Decision in March
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-02-21T12:30:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/u-k-insider-trading-suspects-said-to-face-regulator-s-decision-on-charges.html
Seven people arrested by Britain’s
financial regulator as part of its highest-profile insider-
trading investigation may learn next month whether they’ll be
charged, two people familiar with the probe said.  The suspects were arrested nearly two years ago by
Britain’s Financial Services Authority and included employees
who worked for  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  (DBK), Exane BNP Paribas and Moore
Capital Management LLC. The suspects must report to police
stations in  London  on March 26 to discover if they’re being
prosecuted, said the people, who declined to be identified
because they weren’t authorized to discuss the case.  The investigation is codenamed Tabernula, Latin for little
tavern, and is probing whether the men engaged in the front-
running of block trades. Investigators are seeking to determine
if the suspects profited by using knowledge of upcoming
securities sales, generally on behalf of a corporate client.  Not all of the suspects will necessarily be charged next
month and some final decisions may be delayed, according to one
of the people.  The FSA arrested an eighth suspect last year, and last week
a ninth -- a trader at insurer  Legal & General Group Plc (LGEN) ’s
investment-management arm.  The FSA and the Serious Organised Crime Agency also
searched an office and home in London and a residence in Kent,
southeast of the British capital, during last week’s arrest.  The FSA secured the longest-ever U.K. sentence for  insider
trading  a year ago when former Dresdner Kleinwort banker
Christian Littlewood was imprisoned for 40 months after
admitting illegal trading over a 10-year period, along with his
wife and an accomplice.  Seven people who were  charged  in 2010 with making about 2.5
million pounds ($4 million) with data leaked from London
printers with clients including UBS AG and JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s Cazenove unit are scheduled to go to trial next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 