-- Biggest U.K. Surplus in Four Years Pressures Osborne on Stimulus: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-02-21T12:29:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/u-k-records-biggest-budget-surplus-in-four-years-in-january.html
Britain posted the biggest  budget
surplus  in four years in January, increasing pressure on
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  to provide some
stimulus for the economy in his budget next month.  Revenue exceeded spending by 7.75 billion pounds ($12.3
billion), compared with a surplus of 5.2 billion pounds a year
earlier, the  Office for National Statistics  said today in
London. The median of 10 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey
was 6.3 billion pounds. January is the biggest tax-collection
month of the year.  Osborne is refusing to bow to pressure from opposition
politicians to relax his fiscal squeeze to promote growth when
he presents his annual budget on March 21. Moody’s Investors
Service said last week that while the U.K.’s Aaa rating was at
risk from the crisis in Europe, the government’s commitment to
deficit reduction supported the top grade.  “Together with the recent pick-up in the economic data,
this might help the chancellor to claim at next month’s budget
that his Plan A is still working,” Capital Economics Ltd. Chief
U.K. Economist  Vicky Redwood  said. “We still think that
borrowing will be much harder to pull down further ahead once
economic growth slows.”  The pound was trading at $1.5810 as of 12:09 p.m. in
London, down 0.3 percent on the day. The benchmark 10-year
government bond yield was little changed at 2.23 percent.
 European stocks  fell from a six-month high amid speculation a
Greek bailout deal reached overnight won’t be sufficient to
solve the nation’s debt crisis.  Greek Deal  European finance ministers approved a 130 billion-euro
($173 billion) bailout package for Greece early today by tapping
into European Central Bank profits and convincing investors to
provide more debt relief to prevent the nation defaulting.
Bondholders’ response to the swap and parliamentary approvals in
some European countries loom as risks to the deal.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  lost 0.7 percent, its first
decline in five days, and the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  slipped
0.4 percent.  The U.K. budget figures showed that receipts rose 2.8
percent in January from a year earlier. The government receives
a fifth of all taxes on company profits and gets final payments
of income tax for the previous fiscal year in January. In the
first 10 months of the fiscal year, the deficit narrowed to 93.5
billion pounds from 109.1 billion pounds. Government revenue
increased 4.7 percent and spending grew 1.6 percent.  Budget Incentives  The data raise the possibility that borrowing in the fiscal
year through March will come in below the 127 billion pounds
forecast by the Office for Budget Responsibility in November,
giving Osborne limited leeway to offer tax incentives in the
budget, said  Chris Williamson , chief economist at Markit.  “Our credible deficit plan is working,” the Treasury said
in an e-mailed statement. It is “keeping  interest rates  at
record lows for families and businesses and helping to support
the recovery.”  Ed Balls , who speaks for the opposition  Labour Party  on
economic matters, called on Feb. 19 for Osborne to lower  sales
tax  to aid the economy. The Institute for Fiscal Studies said
Feb. 1 lower borrowing could give the chancellor room to safely
implement a “significant” fiscal stimulus to support growth.  While gauges of manufacturing and services improved in
January, the economy shrank 0.2 percent in the  fourth quarter 
and the  Bank of England  forecasts only a “gradual” recovery
this year.  Policy Easing  Australia ’s central bank said it has scope to ease monetary
policy if needed, minutes of its Feb. 7 meeting released today
showed. Elsewhere,  Hong Kong  said its  unemployment rate  fell to
3.2 percent in January from 3.3 percent in December.  In  Europe ,  Switzerland ’s trade surplus narrowed in January
and a Danish  consumer confidence index  rose. Turkey’s central
bank kept its one-week repo rate at a record low of 5.75
percent, maintaining the floor of the interest-rate corridor
it’s using to slow inflation while supporting growth.  Euro-area consumer sentiment was probably little changed
this month, with an index at minus 20.1 compared with minus 20.7
in January, according to a Bloomberg survey ahead of a release
by the European Commission today. The Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago’s National Activity Index probably rose to 0.22 in
January from 0.17 in December, according to another survey.  U.K. Debt  In the U.K., the surplus including government support for
banks was 10.7 billion pounds. National debt was 989 billion
pounds in January, or 63 percent of gross domestic product,
falling below the 1 trillion-pound mark reached in December.
There was a public-sector cash surplus of 16.8 billion pounds,
compared with economists’ forecast for 24.7 billion pounds.  The statistics office said the sale of lender  Northern Rock 
to Virgin Money added 653 million pounds to national debt. This
is because a capital transfer of 1.4 billion pounds to Northern
Rock in 2009 was treated as a “temporary effect” and not
included in national debt until the sale to Virgin for 747
million pounds. The ONS said the sale includes some deferred
payments that will over time reduce the impact on the debt.  The government is aiming to rid Britain of a  budget deficit 
equal to 9 percent of gross domestic product by 2017 with a 147
billion-pound austerity program.  The improvement in the January data reflected less
borrowing by local authorities and public corporations, with the
central government posting weaker-than-forecast revenue growth,
according to the  Office for Budget Responsibility .  In the final two months of the fiscal year, growth in
value-added tax is expected to be weak and revenue from
financial-sector bonuses may fall, the budget watchdog said in
a commentary on today’s figures. Spending growth, meanwhile,
may pick up sharply as departments “backload” their outlays,
although they are likely to undershoot November’s full-year
forecast by more than 250 million pounds, it said.  Moody’s placed Britain’s Aaa rating on negative outlook on
Feb. 13, a move Osborne said was a “reality check.”  There are “rising challenges,” Moody’s said. Still the
government’s “response to negative developments late last year
indicates its commitment to restoring a sustainable debt
position.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  