-- First Foreign-Bribery Case Built From Sting Dropped by U.S.
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/u-s-drops-first-foreign-bribery-case-based-on-undercover-sting-operation.html
The biggest U.S. prosecution of
individuals accused of foreign bribery was dropped after the
government failed to win convictions of 10 people who went to
trial among the 22 charged in the case.  The  Justice Department  yesterday asked a federal judge in
Washington to dismiss the indictment, which originally accused
the security-industry officials of planning to make payments to
a federal agent posing as a representative of the West African
nation of Gabon to secure a stake in a fake $15 million deal for
weapons and security gear.  It was the first time the government used a sting operation
involving undercover techniques to charge violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  “I for one hope that this very long and very expensive
ordeal will be a true learning experience for the department and
the FBI as they regroup to investigate and prosecute FCPA cases
against individuals” U.S. District Judge Richard Leon said
while granting the government’s request. He had earlier told
prosecutors of his concerns about their “aggressive conspiracy
theory” of the case, he said.  Courtroom Setbacks  The dismissal adds to courtroom setbacks for the government
in FCPA cases. Last month, a federal judge in  Texas  acquitted a
former manager at a Texas unit of Zurich-based ABB Ltd. who was
accused of bribing Mexican officials. A related case was
dismissed last year by a judge who said the jury verdict
convicting two men at an electricity tower company of bribing
Mexican officials was tainted by prosecutor misconduct in “a
sloppy, incomplete and notably over-zealous investigation.”  In a crackdown on overseas bribery that started during the
 Bush administration , the government settled 57 cases against
companies from 2005 through 2011 without trial, reaping $4.1
billion for the U.S. treasury, according to Justice Department
data. A push to prosecute more individual defendants during the
same period produced mixed results.  Of the 93 people charged over the past seven years,
including the defendants in the sting case, 41 pleaded guilty
and six were convicted at trial by the end of 2011, according to
data by Shearman & Sterling LLP. Through 2011, four defendants
were fugitives, one was exonerated and three had their cases
dismissed. The remainder are awaiting trial. The 31 defendants
who’ve been sentenced got an average of 2 years and 2 months in
prison.  Remaining Defendants  In seeking to end the so-called Gabon case, the government
said in court papers it “carefully considered” the outcomes of
the first two trials of 10 defendants and the impact of rulings
in those cases on the remaining defendants, as well as the
resources needed to continue with “another four or more”
trials.  The first trial of four defendants resulted in a hung jury
in July after more than six days of deliberations. The four-
month trial of six others ended last month with three acquittals
and the jury unable to reach a verdict on the rest.  Marc Morales, one of the defendants in the second trial,
told reporters yesterday after the hearing that he was “happy
to move on with my life and spend time with my family.” Asked
how much money he spent defending against the charges, Morales
said, “more than I have.”  The jury could not reach a verdict on Morales.  “If, as the DOJ said, there’s a sea of global corruption,
it’s much wiser for them to use their resources to prosecute
those actual crimes, rather than pursuing this fictitious sting
operation,” Eric Bruce of Kobre & Kim LLP, who represented
defendant Pankesh Patel, said in an interview.  Laura Sweeney , a Justice Department spokeswoman, declined
to comment beyond yesterday’s filing.  Videotaped Meetings  The case stemmed from a three-year investigation involving
an informant who had pleaded guilty in an earlier bribery case.
Investigators recorded telephone calls and videotaped meetings
with  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agents posing as
representatives of Gabon, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-biggest oil
producer.  The government said the defendants agreed to pay a $3
million commission for the business, half of which they were
told would be paid to the country’s defense minister.  Assistant U.S. Attorney General  Lanny Breuer , who oversees
the Justice Department’s criminal division, has cited the Gabon
case, along with the Galleon Group LLC insider-trading probe, as
examples of the government using wiretaps and other undercover
techniques to pursue white-collar criminals.  ‘FCPA World’  “I think the decision is based solely on the facts of this
case and will not have widespread impact on the FCPA world,”
said Paul Pelletier, a partner at Mintz Levin Cohn Ferris
Glovsky & Popeo PC in  Washington  who was a supervisor in the
fraud section of the department’s criminal division when the
case was filed.  Pelletier said sting cases are hard for prosecutors because
investigators rely on cooperating individuals “with all their
warts.” The government in the future may “insert” undercover
agents into an investigation at an earlier stage so targets can
work through them rather than the informant, he said.  The government’s case was put together through Richard Bistrong, a former executive from Armor Holdings Inc. He pleaded
guilty in 2010 to bribing officials of the  United Nations  and
the Netherlands to obtain contracts for body armor and pepper
spray, according to court papers. He has yet to be sentenced.  Bistrong identified possible targets for the government,
according to court papers. Working with the FBI, he recorded
telephone and in-person meetings with the defendants. He also
introduced them to Pascal Latour, an FBI agent posing as a
representative for Gabon’s defense minister.  Cocaine Addiction  Bistrong, in testimony given during the second trial,
admitted to having a cocaine addiction and to filing false tax
returns and other crimes.  Defense lawyers said the lead FBI agent shared cigars,
gifts and meals with Bistrong, compromising the government’s
investigation. The relationship was documented in  text messages 
and e-mails shown to the jury.  U.S. prosecutor Joey Lipton told Leon that the government
has contacted lawyers for three men who pleaded guilty in the
case and will discuss with them whether those pleas can remain
in place.  The case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  