-- U.S. TV for Iran Might Be Free, Doesn’t Have to Be Cheap: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-21T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/u-s-broadcast-for-iran-might-be-free-but-doesn-t-have-to-be-cheap-view.html
Programs that go on and on. Shows
that lack focus. Graphics and production values that make
Iranian state TV look hip by comparison. Why has the U.S.-run
Persian News Network been so bad for so long?  It’s not for lack of importance. In the absence of a
diplomatic mission for 33 years, America’s principal voice in
 Iran  is the actual  Voice of America , the U.S. government-run,
multimedia news agency. Especially in these times of high
tension over U.S.-led efforts to prevent Iran from achieving
nuclear-weapons capability, the U.S. has a strong interest in
being heard by Iran’s people. But the VOA’s Persian News Network
has fallen far short of that aim. According to a survey last
year, only 6 percent of adults in Iran watched a PNN program at
least once a week.  Iranians depend on external sources for an objective view
of current events. Iranian broadcast networks are completely
under state control. With one of the highest concentrations of
jailed journalists in the world, the country  ranks among the
worst  in terms of media freedom, according to the watchdog group
 Freedom House . About 13 percent of the population can regularly
access the Internet, but the government makes efforts to filter
its content.  From its 2007 start, PNN -- which provides six hours of
original, Persian-language TV programming a day, repeated over
24 hours, via satellite TV -- has been pretty lousy. The one
notable exception is the hit “Parazit,” introduced in 2009 and
inspired by “ The  Daily Show  with  Jon Stewart .” An  internal
2009 report  documented issues of poor technical and journalistic
standards that cropped up again in an informal review last year.  The network can ill-afford to be complacent. Since 2010, it
has had stiff competition from the British Broadcasting
Corporation, whose superior Persian-language service immediately
ate up a third of PNN’s 29 percent market share. Later that
year, the Iranian government began jamming both signals, forcing
PNN and  BBC  off the satellite to which most Iranian households
tune their dishes. Since then, viewers have had to physically
manipulate their devices to watch PNN or BBC. Most don’t bother
for PNN; in the 2011 viewership survey, its market share plunged
from 20 percent to 6 percent. Yet BBC’s actually grew -- from 10
percent to 12 percent.  To its credit, PNN responded to its weaknesses with a fresh
program lineup introduced in mid-January. A more diversified mix
includes shows on technology, arts and music, and Iran’s
economy, breaking up the previous, heavy diet of news and
debate. Several unprofessional hosts are gone, and the network’s
stronger personalities have been given greater exposure.  Still, whereas BBC Persian offers world-class
entertainment, watching PNN feels dutiful. This is unacceptable.
At a time when speaking to more than 6 percent of Iranians
should be an urgent U.S. priority, the  Broadcasting Board of
Governors , which oversees VOA, should make producing first-rate
television at PNN an imperative. President  Barack Obama  should
bear this in mind when he nominates a replacement for Walter Isaacson, a seasoned media executive who  resigned as chairman  of
the board last month. Isaacson’s predecessor was a politician.  Even on PNN’s new shows, content is sometimes frustratingly
unprofessional. For instance, PNN’s technology show, created in
response to the popularity of a well-conceived, well-edited tech
program on BBC Persian, is slapdash. An episode might consist of
a journalist simply meandering around a trade show ogling new
gadgets.  If resources aren’t available to make low-quality shows
like this one creditable -- the Broadcasting Board of Governors
just announced a  2013 budget  that would cut VOA’s allocation by
$17 million -- the network should cancel them and focus on what
it can do well. “Parazit,” whose popularity with Iranian youth
provoked state television to produce a number of rival programs
mimicking its style, demonstrates what can be done.  In addition to the broadcast, PNN should improve its
website. Television remains by far the most important way
Iranians consume news, but the Internet is significant, too,
especially given jamming of TV satellite signals. Though the
government periodically blocks access to PNN’s website, many
Iranians have software to breach the firewall.  The  PNN site , however, is off-putting. Even without knowing
Persian, a user can easily see why the  BBC site  is better. PNN’s
staid look should be ditched for something livelier. And a new
design should enable users to easily discern the most important
news of the day.  From the start, President Barack Obama has been an advocate
for American soft power. With the prospect of a shooting war
looming in Iran, there is no more pressing place to deploy that
power. When a well-executed show like “Parazit” can begin to
undercut the legitimacy of the Iranian regime, there’s no
telling what a superlative network could do.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 