-- UGI to Consider Pennsylvania Expansion With Philly Gas Works
-- B y   J i m   P o l s o n   a n d   R o m y   V a r g h e s e
-- 2012-02-21T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/ugi-to-consider-pennsylvania-expansion-with-philly-gas-works.html
UGI Corp. (UGI)  is among East Coast
utility companies that may bid on municipally-owned  Philadelphia
Gas Works (AGL)  after city officials decided last week to put it on
the market.  Philadelphia Mayor Michael Nutter is considering the sale
after a study he commissioned found a divestiture would release
the city from rising costs and financial risks associated with
the 176-year-old utility. A potential buyer might value the gas
works at $1.4 billion to $2 billion, depending on what was sold,
merger advisory firm  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  said in its study. The city
might clear as much as $496 million from a sale after costs,
Lazard said.  “Pennsylvania utilities are a core business for us and
we’d certainly take a look at it,” UGI Treasurer Hugh Gallagher
said in a Feb. 17 telephone interview. “It sounds like it’s
going to be a very complicated process. We’ll see if it makes
sense.”  UGI, which the city hired to operate the gas works in 1961
before reclaiming management in 1972, is headquartered in  King
of Prussia , Pennsylvania, about 19 miles northwest of
Philadelphia’s landmark city hall. The utility owner has twice
expanded its Pennsylvania operations in the past six years,
buying gas-distribution units of  Southern Union Co. (SUG)  in 2006 for
$580 million in cash, and  PPL Corp. (PPL)  gas utilities for $268
million in 2008.  Seeking Financial Advisers  The city will solicit bids in March from financial advisers
for a potential sale, Mayor Nutter said at a Feb. 13 press
conference when the Lazard study was released. Any sale needs
approval by the city council and state regulators and may take
two years, he said.  UGI is one of a slate of nearby utilities that might glean
savings and attractive returns from the largest, and oldest,
municipal-owned gas works in the U.S., analysts said.  “This will pique a lot of interest if they actually go
ahead with it,” Michael Gaugler, a New York-based analyst for
Brean Murray Carret & Co. said in a telephone interview Feb. 14.
“I can’t recall a municipal system of this size ever coming on
the market.”  The utility serves more than 500,000 accounts, the most of
any government-owned system, according to the American Public
Gas Association in  Washington . Philadelphia is the fifth-most-
populous U.S. city.  Other Possible Bidders  Potential buyers also include nearby  New Jersey Resources
Corp. (NJR) , owner of gas distributors in central and northern  New
Jersey , and  South Jersey Industries Inc. (SJI) , which distributes gas
south and east of Philadelphia, said Gaugler and Chris
Ellinghaus, a New York-based analyst for The Williams Capital
Group LP. New Jersey Resources and South Jersey Industries don't 
comment on mergers or aquisitions, spokespersons for those 
companies said in e-mailed messages.   Nearby utilities could reduce costs by sharing systems and
employees with the municipal gasworks,  Paul Patterson , a New
York-based analyst for Glenrock Associates LLC, said in an
interview. Infrastructure investment funds might back a bid by a
small utility like New Jersey Resources, which has a market cap
of $3.1 billion, Gaugler said.  Pennsylvania ’s Public Service Commission has encouraged
privatization of the city gas works, saying its customer base
can’t support vital safety improvements.  Philadelphia’s residential gas rates are the highest in the
state, inflated by subsidies to the poor and elderly and the
need to cover unpaid bills that rose to a total $103 million in
2010,  Standard & Poor’s  wrote in an Aug. 22 note to clients.
Almost 20 percent of utility customers qualify for federal
heating assistance.  Replacing Pipe  The new owner must replace as much as 1,500 miles (2,400
kilometers) of cast-iron pipe, a type implicated in fatal gas
explosions in Philadelphia and Allentown, Pennsylvania, last
year, James H. Cawley, a Pennsylvania Public Service
Commissioner, said in an interview. The commission sets rates
for Philadelphia Gas Works.  “It’s matter of public safety,” he said. “Cast iron is
brittle. You’re going to have more leaks and you’re going to
have more problems.”  It would take the city 85 years to finish the upgrades at
the current rate of replacement, Cawley said. A buyer might
borrow money to accelerate the fix, he said.  Mayor Nutter has placed several conditions on a potential
sale. The successful buyer must agree to a rate freeze through
August 2016, comply with a union contract that restricts
layoffs, and continue discounts for the poor and elderly.  Unattractive Restrictions  “When you look at the restrictions they’re placing on a
potential buyer, it becomes a lot less attractive,” Gaugler
said. “You can’t fire anybody, you can’t raise rates, you can’t
do this, this, this.”  Infrastructure investment funds and companies serving other
parts of Pennsylvania and New Jersey may be potential bidders,
Glenrock’s Patterson said.  An offer may also attract  AGL Resources Inc. (GAS) , which became
the largest owner of gas-only utilities with its December
purchase of Nicor for about $2.5 billion, Gaugler said.  WGL
Holdings Inc. (WGL) , owner of Washington’s gas utility might look
because it’s familiar with urban gas systems, he said.  Pepco Holdings Inc. (POM) , which delivers power in Washington and
gas in  Delaware , also may consider a bid, Ellinghaus said.  At WGI Holdings, Ruben Rodriguez, a spokesman, didn't return 
a voicemail message seeking comment. Spokespersons for Pepco 
Holdings and AGL Holdings also had no immediate comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Polson in New York at 
 jpolson@bloomberg.net ;
Romy Varghese in Philadelphia at 
 rvarghese8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  