-- Ukraine Fans Default Risk in Russia Bet as Vote Molds Policy
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2012-02-22T17:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/ukraine-fans-default-risk-in-russia-gas-bet-as-vote-molds-policy.html
Ukraine’s efforts to seek cheaper
natural gas from Russia rather than comply with the terms of a
bailout have alarmed investors, propelling the former Soviet
republic’s credit risk above Argentina’s for the first time in
two years.  The government is shunning the  International Monetary Fund 
as it struggles to agree on discounted fuel imports from Russia,
with whom clashes halted European gas transit twice since 2006.
That’s fanned concern over its ability to meet $11.9 billion in
debt costs this year, with  default risk  rising more than any
country Bloomberg tracks except Greece in the last six months.  While Ukraine faces a widening current-account gap, slowing
 economic growth  and limited access to global  capital markets ,
President  Viktor Yanukovych  has refused to raise household gas
tariffs to restart a $15.6 billion IMF aid package as support
for his ruling party ebbs before October elections.  “It’s a question of willingness to pay a political
price,” Ronald Schneider, who helps manage about $1 billion in
emerging-market debt at Raiffeisen Kapitalanlage GmbH in Vienna,
said Jan. 31 by phone. “Skepticism for Ukraine will increase”
without a resumption in IMF disbursements.  Swaps, Global Appetite  The cost of insuring Ukrainian state debt against non-
payment for five years using credit-default swaps rose 254 basis
points in the last six months to 780 today, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices from
dealers in the privately-negotiated market. That compares with
768 yesterday for  Argentina , which the gauge surpassed Jan. 13.  Ukraine’s CDS price fell this month after peaking at 930
basis points on Jan. 17. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  “The improvement in Ukrainian debt spreads is a mere
consequence of the risk rally we’re now seeing in the markets,”
 Luis Costa , an emerging-market strategist at Citigroup Inc. in
London, said today by e-mail. “The macro story in Ukraine still
points to very dangerous imbalances in the local economy.”  Economic growth may slow to 3.9 percent this year from
about 5 percent in 2011, the government estimates, as the euro-
region turmoil threatens its steel exports and cold weather
curbs the grain harvest.  IMF Warning  Pressure on the hryvnia has intensified in recent months
while dwindling trust in the authorities has halted capital
inflows and investment, the IMF’s Ukraine representative, Max Alier, warned former First Deputy Prime Minister Andriy Klyuev
in a Jan. 31 letter, the Kommersant-Ukraine  newspaper  reported
Feb. 13.  The hryvnia has declined to 8.0138 per  U.S. dollar  from
7.9550 a year ago. Ukraine’s gold and foreign-currency  reserves 
fell $3.3 billion to $31.8 billion in 2011 as the hryvnia
weakened and its current-account deficit widened to 5.5 percent
of gross domestic product from 2.2 percent.  The former Soviet state’s credit-rating outlook was cut to
stable from positive at  Fitch Ratings  in October, while Moody’s
Investors Service lowered it to negative in December, citing
risks to funding, liquidity and political stability. They both
rate Ukraine five levels below investment grade.  The yield on the government’s Eurobond due 2016 has jumped
to 8.587 percent from 6.265 percent when it was issued last
June. Foreign investors have cut hryvnia-debt holdings to 4.26
billion hryvnia ($532 million) as of yesterday from 11.26
billion hryvnia last January,  central bank  data show.  Bailout Frozen  Ukraine’s IMF loan, obtained in 2010, has been frozen since
last March because the government won’t approve a one-third
increase in consumer energy costs, a move the Washington-based
fund has demanded to trim losses at state energy company NAK
Naftogaz Ukrainy.  “We can’t burden the citizens,” Yanukovych, whose ruling
Party of Regions has 14 percent backing before this year’s
parliamentary vote, said Feb. 16 in comments published on his
 website .  Instead, he wants to wipe a third off his country’s gas
bill by seeking a discount on its Russian imports to $250 per
1,000 cubic meters from the $416 average price assumed in this
year’s budget. The bill came to about $12 billion last year.  While the two neighbors have been negotiating for months,
no agreement has been reached. Ukrainian officials say Russia
wants control of the transit pipelines  OAO Gazprom (GAZP)  uses to ship
gas to  Europe , a similar deal to one Belarus accepted last year.  ‘Very High Price’  Ukraine is unwilling to sanction the sale and Prime
Minister  Mykola Azarov  reiterated Feb. 11 that there are no
plans to join a Russia-led customs union of which Belarus is
also a member.  “Russia will demand a very high price in terms of
sovereignty and getting control of key economic assets,” Ariel Cohen, a senior fellow at the  Heritage Foundation  in  Washington ,
said Feb. 8 by phone.  Gazprom’s press service declined to comment yesterday when
asked about the negotiations with Ukraine and what the company
is seeking in return for potential price discounts.  Russia , which supplies Ukraine with more than 70 percent of
its gas needs, agreed to cut prices in April 2010 in exchange
for a 25-year extension on its lease of the Black Sea port of
Sevastopol, where it has a naval base.  Cheese Ban  The two countries have fallen out over Ukrainian cheese
imports, with Russia banning products from three plants on
quality grounds. Russia halted Ukrainian dairy imports in 2006
after it cut gas supplies during a price dispute.  Ukraine doesn’t appear ready to make concessions, according
to Alex Brideau, an analyst at Eurasia Group in  Tokyo .  “At the same time, it wants a deal quickly, so as to
minimize the economic damage from high prices,” he said in a
Feb. 10 note. “The combination of these factors makes it
probable that tension will escalate between the two sides in the
coming weeks.”  Gazprom’s Chief Executive Officer, Alexey Miller, accused
Ukraine of taking as much as 40 million cubic meters of gas a
day from EU-bound energy shipments during freezing temperatures
this month, the Interfax  news agency  reported today.  Ukraine’s gas-transit system may be rendered obsolete after
the Russian export monopoly completes construction of pipelines
along alternative routes, Sergey Kupriyanov, a company
spokesman, said later in an e-mailed statement.  Naftogaz denied taking “a single cubic meter of gas” in
an e-mailed statement.  Eurobond Sale  With Russian gas talks dragging on and no sign of a
compromise with the  IMF , Ukraine has said it may seek to raise
funds on international markets next month.  The government plans to borrow 12.15 billion hryvnia abroad
in March, almost a third of its full-year target for foreign
borrowing, the  Finance Ministry   said  Feb. 9. It picked JP Morgan
Chase & Co., Morgan Stanley and Russia’s VTB Capital and Troika
Dialog, which is controlled by OAO Sberbank, to lead manage a
potential Eurobond sale, the ministry said Feb. 3.  Whether Ukraine can successfully sell debt abroad depends
on foreign-investor appetite and the government’s readiness to
accept higher borrowing costs,  Olena Bilan , chief economist at
Dragon Capital in Kiev, wrote in a Feb. 10 note.  “Unless the Ukrainian authorities succeed in reducing
fiscal and external pressures -- the main Ukrainian macro risk
at the moment -- we don’t think investors will be prepared to
accept a single-digit yield on new Ukrainian debt,” she said.  ‘Enough Resources’  Even if cooperation with the IMF isn’t resumed, Ukraine
doesn’t see any problems with foreign-debt repayments, Finance
Minister Valery Khoroshkovsky said today, the Ligabiznesinform
news agency reported. “We have enough resources to repay all
debts,” he said, according to the agency.  The  budget deficit  reached 4.3 percent of GDP last year,
with Naftogaz’s shortfall widening to 20.6 billion hryvnia,
according to the Finance Ministry.  Ukraine’s currency may fall further without measures to
bolster public finances, according to Sergei Strigo, who helps
manage about $750 million as head of emerging-market debt at
Amundi Group in  London . Amundi cut its holdings of hryvnia-
denominated bonds at the end of last year after the chances of a
“substantial” devaluation in the currency in 2012 rose.  “The market is waiting for a resolution to either the IMF
or some agreement on gas prices with Russia,” Strigo said Feb.
2. “The current path isn’t sustainable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  