-- UN Agrees to Expansion of African Mission in War-Hit Somalia
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-02-22T15:42:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/un-security-council-to-vote-on-increasing-somalia-peacekeepers.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
authorized an increase of almost 50 percent in the troop
strength of the African Union’s peacekeeping mission in Somalia,
boosting efforts to wipe out militia linked to al-Qaeda.  The council today voted 15-0 in favor of a resolution to
raise the number of personnel in the mission, known as Amisom,
to 17,731 from 12,000, currently made up of Ugandan, Burundian
and Djiboutian troops.  Amisom, fighting alongside Somali troops, has pushed the
Islamic militant group al-Shabaab from most areas of the capital
Mogadishu, and it needs more manpower to wrest control of the
rebel-held central and south, Commander Fred Mugisha said in
October. The rebels are also facing pressure outside the city
from Kenyan and Ethiopian forces operating independently and
with government soldiers from the Horn of Africa nation.  Kenya  deployed troops into southern  Somalia  in October in
pursuit of al-Shabaab militants it blames for a string of
attacks on foreigners including a British man shot dead at a
luxury resort on the coast near the border of Somalia.  The UN’s authorization for the expansion of Amisom may
bolster Kenya’s plan to place its forces under Amisom command
and will increase the cost of the mission by $300 million to
about $550 million.  Ethiopian forces entered Somalia in December, seizing the
central town of Beledweyne from al-Shabaab, government spokesman
Bereket Simon said last month.  London Conference  The vote was taken a day before a U.K.-organized
international conference in  London  on boosting security in
Somalia and tackling maritime piracy affecting the global
shipping industry.  The meeting also will explore the next steps in dealing
with the humanitarian crisis in Somalia, where famine last year
left 750,000 people on the brink of starvation and drove tens of
thousands of people from their homes. More than 2.3 million
people in Somalia are still in need of emergency assistance, the
UN Food and Agriculture Organization said on Feb. 3.  Somalia has been wracked by a civil war since the ouster of
Mohamed Siad Barre, the former dictator, in 1991. Al-Shabaab,
which controls most of southern and central Somalia, has been
fighting President Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed’s administration
in Mogadishu in a bid to establish an Islamic state.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in  United Nations  at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  