-- Union for Independent Contractors to Offer Health Insurance
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-02-21T20:16:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/union-for-independent-contractors-to-offer-health-insurance-1-.html
The Freelancers Union, a nonprofit
created to represent freelance workers and independent
contractors, will receive $341 million in loans from the U.S.
government to start health insurance plans in three states.  The plans will compete with for-profit offerings from
companies including  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH)  and  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) 
and nonprofit Blue Cross plans beginning in 2014,  Marilyn Tavenner , the acting administrator of the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services, said in a statement. The programs are
called “co-op” plans, after a provision of the 2010 health law
that authorized them.  The co-ops “will promote competition in the insurance
market and respond well to the health-care needs of Americans,”
Tavenner said in the statement. The plans will begin by 2014
with the opening of new government-run health insurance markets,
called exchanges.  Freelancers Union now offers a 401(k) plan and health- and
life-insurance coverage for its estimated 171,000 members,
according to its  website . The organization’s new plans, which
will be offered by affiliates created in  New York ,  New Jersey 
and Oregon, “will be open to everyone,” the group said in a
statement, including non-members.  The union expects to cover 200,000 people in the plans
within five years. “It’s like venture capital for health
care,” said Sara Horowitz, the group’s executive director.  Freelancers Union is among seven co-op plans that the
 Department of Health and Human Services  is funding. The others
will operate in  Iowa , Nebraska, Montana,  New Mexico  and
Wisconsin. The plans will share a total of $639 million in
government loans, offered at interest rates of less than one
percent.  The money will be provided “on an incremental basis” as
the organizations reach “milestones” for establishing their
insurance plans, to protect against default, said Barbara Smith,
the associate direct of the co-op program at HHS.  Her agency has established “sort of an early warning
system to determine if a co-op is going to be in trouble and to
see if we can get them on a pathway toward correcting that and
becoming viable,” she said in a conference call with reporters.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  