-- University Affirmative Action Threatened by U.S. Top Court Admissions Case
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   J o h n   H e c h i n g e r
-- 2012-02-22T05:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/university-affirmative-action-programs-attract-u-s-supreme-court-scrutiny.html
Colleges may soon have to overhaul
decades-old efforts to promote racial diversity after the U.S.
Supreme Court agreed to reconsider the constitutionality of
affirmative action in admissions.  In accepting an appeal from a rejected white applicant to
the  University of Texas  at Austin yesterday, the justices
signaled interest in rolling back the type of race-based
admissions the high court approved in 2003.  The 2003 ruling, which upheld a policy at the  University of
Michigan Law School , gave public and private schools a road map
for setting up valid affirmative action programs -- and
suggested the high court wouldn’t revisit the issue for 25
years. Colleges, which set up their rules under the assumption
that the legal issue was settled, would have to revamp their
policies if the court now outlaws race-based admissions, said
Lee Bollinger, the president of  Columbia University  in  New York .  “This case has the potential to cut across all of higher
education,” said Bollinger, who as president of the  University
of Michigan  in the late 1990s and early 2000s led the defense of
its affirmative action programs. The court’s surprising decision
to hear the case set off “a lot of consternation” among
colleges, he said.  Most of the nation’s selective colleges and universities
have adopted affirmative action. The Supreme Court has ruled on
cases involving public universities, and private colleges are
bound by its decisions as well because they are subject to
provisions of federal civil-rights law.  Discrimination Claim  The justices will hear the latest case -- in which student
Abigail Noel Fisher said she suffered discrimination when she
applied to Texas -- during the nine-month term that starts in
October, potentially with arguments before the November
presidential election.  Universities have had the court’s blessing for affirmative
action since the 1978 Regents of the  University of California  v.
Bakke decision gave race-conscious admissions a limited
endorsement.  The 2003 ruling, Grutter v. Bollinger, said admissions
officers can consider race as part of a “holistic” review of
the applicant’s file. On the same day, the justices struck down
a separate affirmative action program they said was too
mechanistic. Writing for the court, Justice Sandra Day O’Connor
said the court “expects that 25 years from now, the use of
racial preferences will no longer be necessary.”  Changed Court Composition  The court’s changed composition since 2003 now makes new
limits on affirmative action all but certain, with the central
issue being how far the court will go. O’Connor has retired,
leaving Justice  Anthony Kennedy  as the court’s swing vote on
race issues.  Kennedy dissented in the 2003 case and has said schools at
all levels should focus on race-neutral steps to achieve
diversity.  Those might include affirmative action programs based on
socio-economic status, rather than race. Some universities have
already started using those methods, said Richard Kahlenberg, a
senior fellow at the Century Foundation in  Washington  who has
written books on education and taught constitutional law.  “The logic behind this is that economic obstacles are even
more substantial than racial obstacles to a student’s doing well
academically,” Kahlenberg said in an interview. At the same
time, “there’s an overlap between race and class in our
society, so anytime a university uses economic disadvantage,
they will indirectly be admitting a lot of students of color.”  Class-Based Admissions  A Century Foundation study in 2004 found that class-based
affirmative action could almost, though not completely,
replicate the breakdowns from traditional race-based admissions
programs.  Looking at the 146 most selective colleges and
universities, the study concluded that blacks and Latinos would
account for 4 percent of the student body if admissions were
based solely on grades and test scores. Race-based affirmative
action increased that number to 12 percent. Had it been used
instead, socio-economic affirmative action would have produced a
10 percent figure.  If the  Supreme Court  forbids direct consideration of race,
colleges will look more at students’ socio-economic backgrounds,
according to Bruce Poch, the former dean of admission at Pomona
College in Claremont,  California .  As many already do today, admissions officers would then
consider where students live, their parents’ occupations, the
schools they attend and whether they are the first in their
families to get a degree, Poch said.  Imperfect ‘Proxy’  “It’s not a perfect proxy,” said Poch, now a higher-
education consultant. “Something would be lost. America has
always been a place where race has been part of one’s
experience. It’s kind of funny to pretend that it isn’t.”  State schools could also adopt an approach similar to
 Texas ’s Top 10 Percent Law, which guarantees admission to state
residents who graduate in the top decile of their high school
class. The 1997 law was enacted in part to boost minority
admissions at state universities.  The Texas system is in court because a second part of its
admissions policy allows direct consideration of race. Fisher,
the rejected student, points in her appeal to statistics
indicating that the Top 10 Percent Law was helping ensure a
significant number of minority students even without explicit
consideration of race.  Freshman Class  In 2004, the last year race wasn’t considered, the entering
freshman class at the university was 21.4 percent black and
Hispanic. The freshman class that entered in the fall of 2011
was 26.3 percent black and Hispanic, according to the
university’s website.  A federal appeals court in  New Orleans  upheld the Texas
system.  Fisher says the high court doesn’t necessarily have to
overturn the Grutter ruling to strike down the Texas system. At
the same time, her lawyers told the court it might need to
reconsider the 2003 ruling “to restore the integrity of the
Fourteenth Amendment’s guarantee of equal protection.”  The fresh look at affirmative action arrives as the U.S.
becomes an increasingly diverse society, with fast-growing
Latino and Asian populations -- and a black president who
himself attended elite universities. Americans of other races
will outnumber whites by 2042, the Census Bureau projects.  Higher Standard?  The Supreme Court’s consideration also follows intensifying
debate about whether Asian-Americans are held to a higher
standard in admissions, requiring stronger test scores and
grades to gain entry to selective colleges. The U.S. Education
Department is investigating such allegations at  Princeton
University , which says it doesn’t discriminate. The department
dropped an investigation of  Harvard University  this month after
an Asian-American student withdrew a complaint.  A growing number of states are outlawing affirmative action
in college admissions, suggesting the court will be taking on
the subject amid growing distaste with the practice, said Roger Clegg, president and general counsel of the Center for Equal
Opportunity, a  Falls Church ,  Virginia , nonprofit opposed to
racial preferences.  Arizona , California,  Michigan ,  Nebraska  and Washington
eliminated race-based affirmative action in college admissions
through ballot initiatives, according to his organization’s
tally. The New Hampshire legislature passed a law banning racial
preferences that took effect this year.  Ballot Initiative  “In a country with so many different racial and ethnic
groups, it becomes more and more untenable for institutions to
be sorting people based on their skin color and what countries
their ancestors come from,” Clegg said in an interview.  Supporters of affirmative action say the experiences in
those states show the continuing need for the programs.  In California, which outlawed race-based admissions at
state schools through a 1996 ballot initiative, black enrollment
declined throughout the system, falling to 3 percent at the
state’s public law schools within five years, Bollinger said.
Black enrollment has since rebounded, though not to pre-1996
levels, affirmative action advocates said.  “We are still living with the tragic legacy of slavery and
Jim Crow,” Bollinger said. “That’s a very important fact that
we have to address.”  At Texas, the news of the Supreme Court review was greeted
with a more muted reaction among students, said Natalie Butler,
the university’s student body president and a government and
communications-studies major from Tempe, Arizona. Race relations
are not tense at the university, she said.  “We do a really good job on diversity, but we could always
do better,” she said in an interview  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
John Hechinger in Boston at 
 jhechinger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net ;
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  