-- Turkish Central Bank Unexpectedly Cuts Upper Lending Rates, Yields Slide
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-21T15:16:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/turkish-central-bank-cuts-upper-lending-rates-yields-slide-1-.html
Turkey’s  central bank  unexpectedly
cut the maximum interest rate at which it lends to banks, saying
it was taking into account monetary easing in other economies.
Bond yields fell to a four-month low.  The bank lowered the maximum rate on overnight loans to
11.5 percent from 12.5 percent and reduced its 12 percent repo
rate for market-making lenders to 11 percent. The one-week repo
rate, the floor of the corridor within which Erdem Basci,
governor of the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey, varies
lending rates, was kept at 5.75 percent, as expected by all nine
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  After almost doubling the effective funding rate to 12.5
percent in October to stem a currency deterioration and
quickening inflation, Basci, 45, started reducing borrowing
costs in January. The central bank has been lending at about 7.5
percent since mid-January. The cheaper money supports government
efforts to keep the economy growing amid a slowdown in  Europe ,
Turkey’s main export market.  “The unexpected cut of the lending rate is a sign of
relaxation of monetary policy,”  Murat Toprak , chief currency
strategist for Europe, the  Middle East  and  Africa  at  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in London, said in e-mailed comments.  Lower rates would support Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan ’s goal of achieving at least 4 percent growth this year
for Turkey’s $735 billion economy, after the fastest expansion
behind  China  among major economies last year. Economists expect
growth to slow to 2.7 percent in 2012, according to the median
of seven estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Why Touch It’  Yields (BENCH)  on two-year benchmark bonds fell 16 basis points, or
0.16 percentage point, to 8.98 percent at 3:56 p.m. in Istanbul,
heading for the lowest level since October. The lira fell the
most this year, declining 0.62 percent to 1.7532 per dollar. The
benchmark ISE-100 stock index dropped 362.97 points, or 0.59
percent, to 61086.10.  “I didn’t expect the cut and, to be honest, don’t see much
sense here,” said Viktor Szabo, who helps manage $7 billion in
emerging-market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management in  London .
“The central bank created a flexible mechanism which allows it
to fine-tune short-term interest rates, so why touch it?”  Basci may be seeking to send a message to the market that
the central bank wants to see lower rates, Szabo said.
Alternatively, the governor may be signaling that he is certain
that the inflation rate is coming down, or that he is “fully
confident” there will be no “big” surprises from the  euro
zone , he said.  Less Hawkish  Inflation accelerated to 10.6 percent in January. Basci
forecast last month that it will slow to 6.5 percent this year,
still above the bank’s target of 5 percent. The rate will fall
to 6.87 percent in 12 months, according to the average estimate
of more than 80 economists and executives in a fortnightly
report published by the central bank on Feb. 8.  The lira’s rebound from an 18 percent slump in 2011 may
help rein in prices. Basci spent about $18 billion of central
bank reserves between July and January and also raised bank
borrowing costs and cut  reserve requirements  to prop up the
currency.  “The improvement in inflation prospects and especially
decisions taken toward increasing global liquidity are stated as
the main reasons behind the decision to narrow the interest rate
corridor,” said  Yarkin Cebeci , an economist for JPMorgan Chase
& Co. in Istanbul. “The language is surely less hawkish.”  ‘Cautious’ Policy  The central bank said it will continue with a “cautious
monetary policy stance for a while longer to meet medium-term
inflation targets. The monetary policy committee decided to cut
the ceiling for its lending rate due to monetary-easing
decisions worldwide.  The  European Central Bank  pumped a record 489 billion euros
($643 billion) into the euro region in December to ward off a
funding squeeze caused by the sovereign debt crisis. The  Federal
Reserve  kept the option open for a third round of bond purchases
after its January meeting and pledged to keep its  benchmark 
interest rate at a record low of about zero percent until late
2014.  Depending on global conditions the central bank “could
continue narrowing the interest rate corridor by cutting the
overnight lending rate further in the coming months,” said
Cebeci, who had forecast a 20 percent chance of a reduction in
the overnight rate before today’s decision.  European Crisis  Greece  reached an agreement with its private creditors
overnight, securing the biggest sovereign restructuring in its
history and paving the way for a second bailout of 130 billion
euros from European governments.  Turkey , whose exports climbed
to a record $135 billion last year, sells almost half of its
good to the European Union.  Steps to curb the Greek-led euro-zone crisis and expansive
monetary policies by the ECB and the Fed trumped last year’s
concerns about Turkey’s ability to finance its  current-account
deficit , which narrowed in the last two months of 2012 after a
credit-fueled boom led to a surge in imports that pushed the 12-
month trade gap to a record $78.6 billion in October. The
deficit is still about 10 percent of economic output.  Investors poured $13.7 billion into Turkish government debt
and equities this year compared with a decline of $2.7 billion
in the first five weeks of 2011, central bank data show.  “The CBT seems to be content with the recent capital
inflows that smoothen financial and price stability concerns,”
Mehmet Besimoglu, chief economist at Oyak Investments in
Istanbul, said in an e-mailed report.  The “accommodative stance” in Basci’s monetary policy is
likely to continue despite concerns about inflation and the
sustainability of foreign investments, Besimoglu said. “As long
as risk appetite continues, the downward shift in  interest rates 
is quite ‘consumption-friendly.’ Thus, it can be argued that
this signals more cuts in the coming period if liquidity
prevails.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  