-- Turkish Central Bank Keeps One-Week Repo Rate at 5.75 Percent
-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 2012-02-21T12:00:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/turkish-central-bank-keeps-one-week-repo-rate-at-5-75-percent.html
Turkey ’s central bank kept its one-
week repo  rate  at a record low, maintaining the floor of the
interest-rate corridor it’s using to slow inflation while
supporting growth.  The benchmark was held at 5.75 percent, where it has been
since August, the bank said on its website today. That matched
the estimate of all nine economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The
Ankara-based bank will release minutes of the monetary policy
committee’s meeting within five working days.  Governor Erdem Basci set up the corridor in October,
allowing him to vary rates between the benchmark and a ceiling
of 12.5 percent. Since mid-January he has made more funding
available at the lower rate, even as inflation surged to a
three-year high. The cheap money supports efforts by the
government to keep the economy growing amid a slowdown in
 Europe , Turkey’s main export market.  “There is a very limited slowdown in the economic activity
which does not necessitate an urgent monetary stimulus,” Sinan Goksen, head of research at Ekspres Invest brokerage in
Istanbul, said today in a report. “There is still a risk that
the elevated headline inflation jeopardizes pricing behavior.”  Inflation accelerated to 10.6 percent last month. Basci
forecast last month that it will slow to 6.5 percent this year,
still above the bank’s target of 5 percent.  Investor Expectations  The lira’s rebound from an 18 percent slump in 2011 may
help rein in prices. Basci spent about $18 billion of central
bank  reserves  between July and January and also raised bank
borrowing costs and cut  reserve requirements  to prop up the
currency. It has climbed more than 8 percent and traded at
1.7477 per dollar at 1 p.m. in Istanbul.  “The recent rally in the lira will likely spark downward
revisions to CPI forecast,” encouraging investors to bet on
lower  interest rates , BNP Paribas SA said today in a report.  The government is targeting economic growth of 4 percent
this year, less than half of the 2011  expansion , which was
second only to  China (CNGDPYOY)  among the Group of 20 major economies.  The credit-fueled boom led to a surge in imports that
pushed the 12-month current account deficit to a record $78.6
billion, or about 10 percent of economic output, in October. The
gap narrowed the following two months, though it’s still about
10 percent of economic output.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 Epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  