-- Vedanta Gains in London on Review to ‘Simplify, Consolidate’
-- B y   F i r a t   K a y a k i r a n
-- 2012-02-21T17:37:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/vedanta-gains-in-london-on-review-to-simplify-consolidate-1-.html
Vedanta Resources Plc (VED)  was the
largest gainer in London’s benchmark  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  after
 India ’s biggest copper producer said it intends to simplify its
corporate structure.  The shares surged 7 percent to 1,453 pence, the highest
level since Aug. 4.  The index  was 0.3 percent lower.  Vedanta commented after India’s CNBC-TV18 moneycontrol.com
website reported that the company is seeking to merge its
Sterlite Industries (India) Ltd. and Sesa Goa Ltd. An
announcement on the plan, which would also see Vedanta’s 38.8
percent stake in Cairn India Ltd. transferred into the combined
entity, is “likely very soon,” according to the report.  “Vedanta’s stated strategy is to simplify and consolidate
its corporate structure,” the company said in a statement
today. “Management reviews options to deliver this strategy on
an ongoing basis and will update the market as appropriate.”  Sterlite would become the holding company for Vedanta’s
Indian operations, according to the news report. Vedanta in
December completed the acquisition of oil producer  Cairn India
Ltd. (CAIR)  after paying $8.67 billion for 58.5 percent of the company.
Iron-ore unit Sesa Goa holds 20 percent of that stake.  Vedanta, whose bonds were downgraded to Ba3 from Ba2 by
Moody’s Investors Service last month, is simplifying its
structure to avoid further downgrades when it needs to raise
funds, according to the website report.  Sterlite Industries is seeking to buy the government’s
remaining stake in  Hindustan Zinc Ltd. (HZ)  and Bharat Aluminium Co.,
also known as Balco, Vice Chairman Navin Agarwal said on Jan.
23. Sterlite bought 51 percent of Balco in 2001 and a majority
stake in Hindustan Zinc a year later.  Vedanta will need to raise $3 billion to buy Balco, CNBC-TV18 said. The company’s debt could rise to as much as $18
billion when its capital expenditure program is also taken into
consideration, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Firat Kayakiran in  London  at 
 fkayakiran@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  