-- Venezuelan Bonds Rally on Report of Chavez Medical Tests: Caracas Mover
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 2012-02-21T16:10:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/venezuelan-bonds-rally-on-report-of-chavez-medical-tests-caracas-mover.html
Venezuelan bonds rallied on
speculation President  Hugo Chavez ’s health is worsening after a
columnist for El Universal newspaper said that he may have
traveled to Cuba for medical tests related to cancer.  The yield on  Venezuela ’s benchmark 9.25 percent bonds due
2027 fell 6 basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 11.82
percent at 10:43 a.m. in  New York , according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose 0.38 cent to 81.88 cents on the
dollar.  Nelson Bocaranda, a columnist for Caracas-based El
Universal,  said yesterday  that Chavez traveled to Cuba to meet
with a team of doctors to decide whether to undergo a third
operation after having a cancerous tumor removed in June.
Venezuelan Information Minister Andres Izarra denied the report
yesterday on his Twitter account.  “Rumors of Chavez being back in hospital for emergency
surgery in Cuba began to circulate among traders over the long
weekend,”  Russell Dallen , head bond trader at Caracas  Capital
Markets  in Miami, said in an e-mail. “The health rumor has put
a bid under Venezuela bonds among those hoping for regime
change.”  Chavez, 57, underwent chemotherapy treatment last year and
has said that he’s “free of illness” as he prepares to run for
re-election in October. He hasn’t revealed what type of cancer
he had or released any medical reports. He last appeared in
public on Feb. 17.  Bocaranda also said on his  Twitter account  that Chavez’s
mother, siblings and children traveled to Cuba to be with him.  Diosdado Cabello, the head of Venezuela’s national assembly
and a former minister in Chavez’s government, said speculation
about Chavez’s health worsening was wrong.  “Don’t pay attention to the rumors,” he said today on his
Twitter account.  State oil company  Petroleos de Venezuela SA ’s bonds also
rallied today on the reports. The yield on PDVSA’s 8.5 percent
bonds due in 2017 fell 33 basis points to 12.20 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The bond’s price rose
1.21 cents to 85.09 cents on the dollar.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  