-- Vietnam Stocks May Climb 25%, Manulife Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-21T02:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/vietnam-stocks-may-climb-25-manulife-says.html
Vietnam  stocks,  Asia ’s worst
performers in 2011, may climb 25 percent this year as lower
 interest rates  bolster corporate earnings, according to Manulife
Asset Management (Vietnam) Co.  The benchmark VN Index may rally to as high as 516 this
year, Tran Thi Kim Cuong, who oversees about $300 million as the
firm’s Ho Chi Minh City-based head of equities, said by phone
yesterday. The gauge closed at 413.98 yesterday. Manulife
Vietnam is part of  Manulife Asset Management , a unit of Manulife
Financial Corp., Canada’s largest insurer.  “Everyone is expecting that consumer prices will be much
lower and the central bank will cut interest rates, supporting
corporate earnings,” Cuong said. “The market this year is
poised for more upside potential than downside.”  The  VN Index (VNINDEX)  has gained 18 percent in 2012, the second-best
performance in Asia, as inflation slowed and the central bank
signaled it may cut borrowing costs. It tumbled 27 percent in
2011 as the government tightened credit to choke off a surge in
inflation, restricting funding for businesses and raising
interest rates.  Fitch Ratings  said in August lending costs for
some businesses in July were as high as 25 percent.  Inflation (VNCPIYOY)  cooled for a fifth month in January, with
consumer prices rising 17.3 percent from a year earlier. The
rate may slow to a single-digit pace as early as June, Louis
Taylor, Standard Chartered Plc’s chief executive for the
country, said on Jan. 13. The  State Bank  of Vietnam instructed
lenders to “reduce interest rates to levels that are suitable
to the macroeconomic situation,” according to a statement
posted on its website on Feb. 13.  ‘Sustainable Rally’  Manulife Vietnam is favoring consumer stocks, amid “very
strong” prospects for consumption growth, and some bank stocks
with low valuations, Cuong said.  Her firm holds shares of  Vietnam Export-Import Commercial
Joint-Stock Bank (EIB) , Military Commercial Joint-Stock Bank,  Vietnam
Dairy Products Joint-Stock Co. (VNM)  and Kinh Do Corp., a producer of
baked goods and candy.  Vietnamese stocks are cheap and may rally in the next two
quarters, Dominic Scriven, chief executive of Dragon Capital
Group Ltd., said in a phone interview on Feb. 17. The VN Index’s
slump last year helped drag  valuations  to 6.9 times estimated
profit on Jan. 10, the lowest level for data compiled by
Bloomberg dating back to November 2008. It now trades at a
multiple of 9.1.  “We expect a bigger and more sustainable stock rally in
the second and third quarters when inflation is expected to
reach single digits,” Scriven said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Kieu Giang in Hanoi at 
 giang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  