-- Wal-Mart Fourth-Quarter Profit Trails Estimates as Low Prices Hurt Margins
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-02-21T21:37:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/wal-mart-fourth-quarter-profit-trails-estimates-as-low-prices-hurt-margins.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, reported fourth-quarter profit that trailed
analysts’ estimates as an emphasis on low prices hurt margins.
The shares tumbled the most in six months.  Net income for the quarter ended Jan. 31 fell 15 percent to
$5.16 billion, or $1.50 a share, from $6.06 billion, or $1.70, a
year earlier, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based retailer said
today in a statement. Excluding some items, profit was $1.44,
trailing the $1.45 average  estimate  of 24 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  is working to contain
Wal-Mart’s costs and last quarter started pulling the company’s
greeters from store lobbies to help with customer-service tasks.
The retailer is seeking to keep prices low as its low-income
shoppers suffer from persistent unemployment.  “It’s not the most inspiring result, but they’re in a
better place than they were 12 months ago,” Natalie Berg,
global research director for Planet Retail in  London , said in an
interview. “Going back to basics is a winning strategy, but it
will take some time.”  The earnings miss was Wal-Mart’s second in a row. The
company’s profit hasn’t trailed analysts’ estimates for two
consecutive quarters since at least the first quarter of its
fiscal 2006, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Wal-Mart fell 3.9 percent to $60.07 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline since Aug. 10. The  shares  gained 11
percent last year.  Wal-Mart Sales  Sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at least a year rose 1.5
percent, the second gain in the past 10 quarters. The average
estimate of six analysts was for a 1.8 percent gain.  Total revenue increased 5.9 percent to $123.2 billion.
Gross profit as a portion of sales narrowed to 24.3 percent, a
0.4 percentage point decrease from a year earlier.  Chief Financial Officer  Charles Holley  said that there will
continue to be pressure on margins as the company works to wring
out costs and offer low prices.  “We may see margins come down more than expenses in some
quarters and expenses come down more than margins in other
quarters,” Holley said on a conference call with journalists.
“We’re not going to match expense reduction with margin
reduction.”  Margins at Wal-Mart’s biggest business, the U.S. stores
division, are likely to disappoint investors, said  Colin
McGranahan , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New
York. Sales at the U.S. stores rose 2.4 percent while operating
income increased 1.4 percent.  ‘Not That Impressive’  “It’s just not that impressive,” McGranahan said.  Wal-Mart’s guidance for fiscal 2013 also is disappointing,
McGranahan said. The company said earnings per share will be
$4.72 to $4.92. The average of analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg was $4.90.  Comparable-store sales including fuel for the Sam’s Club
warehouse membership unit rose 6.8 percent, topping analysts’
average estimate of 5.5 percent. The company said last month
that Brian Cornell would step down as the unit’s CEO and be
replaced by Rosalind Brewer, who most recently was president of
Wal-Mart’s U.S. East business.  Sales at the company’s international operations rose 13
percent to $35.5 billion. Operating income for the unit
increased 15 percent to $2.31 billion.  Job Security  Holley said Wal-Mart’s core customer still is under
pressure from high unemployment and tight household budgets.  “ Job security  is still the number one thing they worry
about,” he said.  Food prices are the second-biggest concern among Wal-Mart
customers, and fuel costs are number three, he said. Wal-Mart’s
food business was hit by 400 basis points of inflation and
passed less than half of that on to customers, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  