-- Wal-Mart’s Asda Plans Price, Quality Push After Christmas ‘Win’
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-02-21T14:49:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/wal-mart-s-asda-plans-price-quality-push-after-christmas-win-.html
Asda, the U.K. supermarket chain
owned by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , said it plans to focus on price
transparency and improved food quality as it looks to boost
growth in a market reliant on promotions and discounting.  “The economy is still going to be challenging and we need
to do everything we can possibly do to maintain the two drivers
of price and quality,” Chief Executive Officer Andy Clarke said
at a press conference in  London  today. “Our focus will very
clearly be on price leadership and our investment in quality.”  Sales at stores open at least a year rose 1 percent
excluding fuel in the 14 weeks ended Jan. 7, Asda said today,
slower than the third quarter’s 1.3 percent growth. The grocer
maintained that pace in January, Finance Director Rob McWilliam
said, led by a guarantee to be 10 percent cheaper than
competitors, more shoppers buying a basket worth in excess of 40
pounds ($63.18) and a surge in online purchases.  Asda was a “clear winner at Christmas,” Clarke said, with
online sales of more than 700 million pounds and a “modest
amount” of volume growth. The second-largest U.K. grocer
increased its market share to 17.5 percent in the 12 weeks ended
Jan. 22 from 16.9 percent in the same period a year earlier,
according to researcher  Kantar Worldpanel , with the purchase of
the Netto discount chain boosting growth.  About 500,000 customers each week are checking their
receipts on Asda’s price-guarantee website, McWilliam said. The
Leeds, England-based retailer promises to be 10 percent cheaper
than competitors or will refund the difference.  Chosen by You  The grocer has cut the price of hundreds of items in its
mid-priced own-brand Chosen By You range and set aside 500
million pounds to invest in 25 store openings. Those include
superstores of 25,000 to 80,000 square feet, small-format
outlets of 3,000 to 25,000 square feet and Asda Living stores,
plus three depots and 43 extensions and refurbishments.  Last month, the grocer said it was on track to open
overseas pilot stores for its George fashion range as part of an
agreement with two franchise partners. Azadea Group of Lebanon
will be responsible for outlets in the  Middle East , while
 SandpiperCI  will look at stores in Jersey and Guernsey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  