-- Wealthy Enriched by Double-Dipping in Disadvantaged Plan
-- B y   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h ,   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-02-21T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/wealthy-enriched-by-double-dipping-u-s-plan.html
In April 2003, Piyush Agrawal
deleted his son’s name as president of APS Technologies Inc. He
replaced it with his own on a  hand-written filing  with the
 Florida  Department of State.  That made the 66-year-old retired educator the sole officer
and director of the firm and separated its management from a
medical supply company run by Agrawal’s two sons. Three months
later, he followed his sons into a U.S. program that steers
government business to the “socially and economically
disadvantaged.” It was the Agrawal family’s second time
obtaining federal assistance under a benefit that  prescribes 
that immediate family members should participate only once.  The New Delhi immigrants have grown rich on $256 million in
government contracts since 1993 through a web of family-owned
companies. The Agrawals are still in the nine-year program
today, 18 years after first qualifying.  They are among 12 repeat participants that have received
$412 million in preferential contracts, and more than $1 billion
in total government awards, based on data compiled by Bloomberg.
Because of opportunistic entrepreneurs and lax government
overseers, even the wealthy profit from a taxpayer-supported
program designed to bolster underprivileged segments of society.  “Legitimate small businesses are put at a huge competitive
disadvantage when bad actors lie about their small business
status and don’t play by the rules,” Representative Sam Graves
said in a statement. The Missouri Republican is chairman of the
House Small Business Committee. “We owe it to American
taxpayers to make sure that contracts intended for small
businesses go to small businesses.”  Passport to Contracts  Established by Congress in 1978, the Small Business
Administration program accounted for $16.7 billion in contract
awards last year, more than the  budget  of the Commerce
Department. Admission to the program, under Section 8(a) of the
Small Business Act, gives entrepreneurs a passport to obtain
federal contracts that typically aren’t subject to competition.
The U.S. targets  23 percent  of its $530 billion in buying each
year for disadvantaged small companies through an array of
assistance, of which the 8(a) designation is only one.  The SBA defines the socially disadvantaged as “those who
have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice or cultural
bias,” such as women, blacks, Hispanics, Native Americans and
Asian-Americans. Eligibility in the 8(a) program is limited to
U.S. citizens whose net worth can’t initially exceed $250,000
and shouldn’t rise above $750,000 while in the program, with the
exception of investments in first homes, the business and
retirement accounts.  Multiple Companies  Business owners and members of their immediate families may
participate only once, though the SBA spells out exceptions.
These include approved mentoring relationships and joint
ventures between past and current participants, or if
participants are in different lines of business.  The SBA certified multiple companies at a single address
more than 100 times since 1990, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. Four companies with overlapping ownership or business
interests obtained 23 years of eligibility in the program at one
address, the data show.  When firms in the SBA program “were operating at the same
address as a previous participant, the companies were affiliated
or had commingled resources,” the  Government Accountability
Office  reported in its own investigation in March 2010. At the
time, the SBA said it didn’t have the capability to detect
businesses enrolled in the program at a common address.  SBA Analysis  The SBA “is conducting an analysis of all 8(a) firms to
identify and correct anomalies,” said the SBA’s John Shoraka in
a  statement . Shoraka, the acting associate administrator of
government contracting and business development in  Washington ,
said the agency is improving its capacity to cross-check program
records and provide “more intense scrutiny” to applicants
while stepping up enforcement against “bad actors.” He
declined to discuss specific examples.  Bloomberg analyzed SBA data on more than 8,000 participants
in the program and then developed profiles of 12 firms with
matching addresses through government contracting databases,
state incorporation records, real estate deeds, litigation and
interviews.  Wrongdoing Denied  Each of the matching participants contacted by Bloomberg,
including the Agrawals, denied any wrongdoing and said they
fully comply with government guidelines. The Agrawals declined
to be interviewed. In a written response to questions, they said
their businesses in the program were separate.  “The Agrawals are distinct and separate entities and have
their own families, liabilities and assets. To group them all
into one is misleading and inaccurate,” the Agrawals said in the
statement.  Akhil Agrawal, 44, and brother Sukrit, 46, run the family
distribution company, American Medical Depot, out of offices in
Opa-Locka, Florida. The father’s company, APS Technologies, is
based in nearby Hialeah. They fulfill contracts for the
government together through Allied Joint Venture LLC, an SBA-
approved entity registered to the father at the Hialeah office.  The Agrawals live in homes with a combined market value of
$3.2 million, including a suite of penthouse oceanfront
condominiums in  Miami Beach , according to property records, and
have donated more than $200,000 to federal political candidates
since 2000, according to campaign-finance records.  The family’s medical distribution business was  implicated 
in overbilling a veterans hospital in the 1990s, though the
matter was settled. Later, the Agrawals were questioned in a
criminal political-corruption probe in Florida related to how
American Medical Depot was awarded local contracts for voting
machines and medical supplies. No charges were brought.  Repeat Participants  In addition to the Agrawals, repeat participants identified
by Bloomberg include:  -- Four Glendale,  Arizona , builders who won $142 million in
awards for the disadvantaged since 1996 as part of $364 million
in total government contracts, all at the same address.  Dennis Shaw, 42, bought a desert estate for $3.1 million
and reported a net worth of $13.4 million in 2007, two years
after graduating from the program, property records and court
documents show. His company, EPC Corp., was the first of four at
the same address to enter the program. He also held options on
the successor firm, Candelaria Corp., according to his personal
financial statement. That company’s owner, Reggie Candelaria
Jr., 42, paid $2.4 million for a Tuscan-style residence with
eight bathrooms while in the program.  Shaw said in a telephone interview that the companies
continued to participate through joint ventures and mentoring
agreements. Candelaria blocked a reporter’s entrance to the
property by padlocking the front gate.  “No comments today,” he said.  -- Two Ocilla,  Georgia , modular-building sales companies
that had different minority owners with the same white managers.
They supplied Army barracks and temporary shelter to Hurricane
Katrina victims among others.  Roscoe Allen Jr., a disabled black former Marine, is
listed with the Georgia Secretary of State as chief executive
officer of Roscoe Allen Co., which obtained $81.4 million in
business for the disadvantaged from 1999 through 2008, out of
total government business of $105 million, U.S. records show.  ‘I Don’t Know’  “I don’t know nothing about $100 million of business, I
don’t,” Allen, 52, said in a telephone interview.  Allen’s former financial manager, D.W. Harper, and former
general manager, Walter Harper, both white, declined to comment
for this story. Decade-old snapshots of Allen’s website identify
the men’s relationship with the former Marine, who confirmed it.  Harper and Hudson are also identified as officers or
employees of Hispanic-owned  Marteen Inc. , a current SBA program
participant at the same address, according to state and federal
records. Martin Hurtado, who is listed with the secretary of
state as chief executive officer, couldn’t be reached during a
reporter’s visit to the property or via repeated phone calls
over two months.  Harper, 51, was listed as Marteen’s primary contact in the
federal government’s Central Contractor Registration database as
recently as December. After Bloomberg contacted the firm, the
contact’s name was changed to Hurtado. Harper lives in a house
with a helicopter pad and owns a $1 million oceanfront
condominium in Florida, according to property records.  By comparison, the black former Marine lives in a house
with a market value of $90,140 and the Mexican-American business
owner Hurtado is listed at a residence with an $11,607 market
value, according to property records.  -- An 87-year-old African-American widow and her daughter
who operated two cleaning companies at the same address in
Philadelphia. The mother’s company, Watts Window Cleaning &
Janitorial Co., won $6 million in sheltered contracts through
2001. The daughter’s company, Watts Industries Inc., then
obtained certification as disadvantaged and lined up $609,403
more, government contracting records show.  The daughter, Yvette Watts, 48, who is listed with the
Pennsylvania Department of State as an officer of both
companies, didn’t respond to requests for comment. Her mother,
Priscilla, said by telephone that she was unfamiliar with the
SBA program for the disadvantaged.  “What’s that?” the elder Watts said.  Akhil and Sukrit Agrawal enrolled their company, American
Purchasing Services Inc., in the SBA program in February 1994.
It does business as American Medical Depot. Their father,
Piyush, borrowed from credit cards to help finance the business,
said Karl Sidman, a former controller of American Medical Depot,
in an interview. The Agrawals also obtained $298,000 in SBA-
guaranteed loans, federal records show.  Jeb, George Bush  Soon, they were socializing with politicians, including
Florida Governor Jeb Bush at Christmas parties. His Republican
administration named American Medical Depot the state’s Minority
Business Enterprise of the year in 2002.  Akhil and his father posed for a photograph with President
 George W. Bush  at a $2,000-a-plate fundraiser in  Fort Lauderdale 
in September 2003. Six weeks later, the family visited the White
House to celebrate the Indian festival of lights.  By then the Agrawals had been a focus of two government
investigations, one recently ended and the other beginning.  American Medical Depot overcharged a veterans hospital in
 Albuquerque ,  New Mexico , in 1998 and 1999 under a contract
reserved for the disadvantaged business program, according to a
report by the Department of Veterans Affairs Inspector General.
The company increased the hospital’s costs by $1.1 million
rather than delivering $400,000 in promised savings, wrote John
Ames, the VA Inspector General’s director of contract review and
evaluation, in an April 2000 report.  23 Percent Markup  Akhil Agrawal and a hospital contracting officer structured
the contract so that American Medical Depot bought the
hospital’s inventory of medical and surgical supplies at cost
and then sold it back for 12.5 percent more, without the
products ever leaving the shelf, investigators found.  American Medical Depot also tacked on 23 percent to the
direct vendor price of products it supplied to the hospital, the
probe found. Investigators characterized as “grossly
inaccurate” a report by hospital personnel “that purported to
show that the contract had been cost-effective,” and
recommended that the VA discontinue the relationship.  The contract was dissolved in October 2001, according to a
“Settlement and Release of Claims Agreement” the Agrawals
provided. The accord says the VA paid American Medical Depot
$3.25 million, without specifying what the money was for. Jean
Schaefer, a VA spokeswoman in Phoenix, said the agency had no
comment.  Local Florida Contracts  The Agrawals also generated millions of dollars in revenue
through local-government contracts that didn’t come through the
SBA program. In Florida, two of the deals got the family
subpoenaed as prosecutors probed an influential black Republican
named Dorsey Miller Jr., who worked as a consultant for American
Medical Depot.  Akhil Agrawal retained Miller in October 2001, two months
before his company won an $878,375 contract to assemble and
warehouse new voting machines for Broward County. The equipment
replaced malfunctioning perforated-card machines that produced
the “hanging chad” controversy in the 2000 presidential
election. Broward County’s Office of Economic Opportunity
required that 10 percent of the contract go to minority-owned
businesses.  In July 2002, American Medical Depot paid Miller a $27,535
finder’s fee for the voting-machine contract, according to state
investigators’ records. In December 2002, the Agrawals amended
Miller’s contract to pay him $3,500 a month plus 33 percent of
gross profit from other business he brought the company.  Kickback Inquiry  John Hanlon Jr., a former assistant state’s attorney, said
in an interview that he was investigating whether Miller or
others were paid illegally to steer the voting-machine contract
to American Medical Depot, which had never worked on election
machines before. Hanlon granted the Agrawals immunity for their
testimony. They didn’t implicate Miller in any wrongdoing,
according to transcripts of the testimony.  By 2002, the Agrawals were also selling medical supplies to
the North Broward Hospital District, where Miller was the board
chairman and a member of its Minority Business Enterprise
Committee, according to sworn testimony in the criminal probe.
The district paid American Medical Depot $340,000 in 2002,
rising to $3 million in 2003, investigators’ records show.  “The AMD proposal added cost to the NBHD supply chain,”
Mickey Victores, the hospital district’s director of purchasing,
wrote in a  memo  to the organization’s top management in January
2004. His memo rebutted American Medical Depot representations
that it saved the district money. Victores declined to comment.  No Indictment  Miller publicly recused himself from the American Medical
Depot decisions. He left the board in 2005. In an interview with
Bloomberg, Miller called the probe a “witch hunt.”  After three years and seven interviews with the father and
sons, a grand jury in December 2006 declined to indict Miller.  It was after American Medical Depot’s eligibility in the
SBA program expired February 2003 that the father Piyush wrote
in his name as president of APS Technologies, replacing Sukrit.
A few months later he registered in the SBA program at the same
address as American Medical Depot.  The Allied Joint Venture partnership he formed between
American Medical Depot and APS in December 2007 retained a
contract to supply surgical and medical products to the Navy
that the family had held since 1999, according to state and
federal records. This allowed his sons to continue a
relationship that generated sales to the Navy of $39.4 million
in gauze, tape, catheters, syringes and lubricated condoms
through early 2011, according to the  Defense Logistics Agency . A
follow-up award to Allied last year could be worth $40 million
more through 2015, the agency said.  Sole Qualifier  Contracts sometimes were written so that the Agrawals were
identified as the sole qualified vendors.  “American Medical Depot has been determined to be the only
responsible source and no other supplies or services will
satisfy agency requirements,” wrote Thomas Sidor, a Defense
Logistics Agency contracting officer, in the award notice for a
$3.7 million contract in early 2009. In early 2010, Sidor said
the company was “the only medical/surgical prime vendor that is
currently geared to meet the needs of the Navy” to fulfill a
$3.2 million extension. Sidor declined to comment.  Since July 2007, a fourth company eligible for federal
contracting preferences has been located in the Agrawals’
offices. Tidewater Management LLC, registered to former Marine
Thomas “Tommy” Jefferson Summerour III, 26, qualifies for
business set aside for companies owned by veterans disabled
while in the service. He is the son of American Medical Depot
Vice President Jeff Summerour Jr., 55.  Service-Disabled Veteran  Government records show that Tidewater, operating out of a
cubicle at the Agrawals’ Hialeah office, has won $14 million in
federal contracts providing the same service as American Medical
Depot, distributing surgical and medical supplies.  The younger Summerour “rents space in the building, and
American Medical Depot helps him where possible,” the Agrawals
said in their statement. “So far, he is barely making a
living.”  The Summerours didn’t respond to requests for comment.  Mike Cline, a former sales executive for American Medical
Depot, filed an employee breach of contract and whistle-blower
lawsuit against the Agrawals, American Medical Depot and APS in
state court in February 2010. The complaint alleges that the
Agrawals overbill the government through inflated fees and a
non-existent third-party vendor that the suit doesn’t identify.  “There’s four or five businesses in there that just shift
around money and headcount and costs, using personnel in each of
the businesses,” Cline said in an interview. The Agrawals have
denied his allegations in court filings.  Chair Through Wall  At least four financial executives and several bookkeeping
employees have quit or been fired by the Agrawals over the past
five years, according to former employees. One of them, a former
controller named Bill Riska, said he quit in late 2009 after
Akhil Agrawal threw a chair through his office wall.  “Although they said they wanted a controller, they really
didn’t,” said Sidman, another former controller. “They were
looking for somebody to make sure the bills were paid timely,
that receivables were collected on a regular basis, and anything
else dealing with financial statements, they just did not want
you to see.”  Former employees also said in interviews that they don’t
believe the distinctions the Agrawals make between their
companies. American Medical Depot and APS shared offices,
personnel and accounting, according to interviews with Riska,
Sidman and others.  Tiffany Marquez, who worked for APS from 2007 until early
2010, says the elder Agrawal once told her, “APS stands for
Akhil, Piyush and Sukrit.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elliot Blair Smith in Washington at 
 esmith29@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net .
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Robert Blau at   rblau1@bloomberg.net ;
John Walcott at   jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Stoughton at +1-202-654-7375 or
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  