-- Wider U.S. Evacuation at Fukushima Supported in NRC Transcripts
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d   a n d   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-02-21T21:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/wider-u-s-evacuation-at-fukushima-supported-in-nrc-transcripts.html
The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
Commission released transcripts that officials said supported
Chairman  Gregory Jaczko ’s recommendation last year to evacuate
Americans from within 50 miles of  Japan ’s crippled reactor.  “If this happened in the U.S., we would go out to 50
miles,” Bill Borchardt, the NRC’s executive director for
operations, told Jaczko in a conversation on March 16, five days
into the crisis, included among 3,000 pages of documents
released today by the agency. “That would be the appropriate
guidance to give the ambassador to pass on at this point.”  Republicans in Congress have criticized Jaczko’s leadership
during the 2011 disaster, and Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican, in May questioned why Jaczko recommended
a 50-mile (80-kilometer) evacuation zone when Japan’s government
cleared 12 miles. Jaczko has said his response was consistent
with what the NRC would propose in a similar U.S. crisis.  The transcripts, some redacted, offer a glimpse into the
NRC emergency operations center in Rockville,  Maryland , as
officials struggled to get accurate information after an
earthquake and tsunami almost a year ago crippled the power
plant.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi was unable
to keep its nuclear fuel cool, triggering meltdowns and
radiation leaks.  A “fog of war” atmosphere hung over the commission and
its staff as executives and officials responded to the unfolding
crisis, Jaczko said in discussing the transcripts during a
conference call with reporters.  ‘Very Hectic’  Agency officials found reliable information was scarce and
“there was confusion and communication problems” in the first
hours after Fukushima lost power,  Eliot Brenner , an NRC
spokesman, said in a blog post on the NRC’s website today. “The
first days were very hectic.”  The five-member NRC is weighing rules to improve safety at
104 U.S. nuclear reactors, including directing owners to be
better prepared for power failures, and the agency may issue its
first Fukushima-related orders by March 9.  One of Fukushima’s reactors “doesn’t have a spent-fuel
pool anymore,” Martin Virgilio, deputy executive director for
reactor and preparedness programs, told Jaczko on March 16,
according to the transcripts. Damage to the cooling pools turned
out less dire than initially thought.  Jaczko asked his four colleagues to stay out of the
emergency operations center in the days after the Fukushima
crisis began. He “broadly interprets the authority granted to
the NRC chairman,” a Dec. 13 report from Republicans on the
U.S. House Oversight and Government Reform Committee said.  Jaczko has said he assumed increased authority as
Fukushimna unfolded because of powers granted to the chairman in
1980, following a partial meltdown at the Three Mile Island
nuclear plant near Harrisburg,  Pennsylvania , a year earlier.  The NRC released the transcripts in response to multiple
Freedom of Information Act requests.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  