-- With These Enemies, Israel Needs More Friends: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-02-21T00:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/with-these-enemies-israel-needs-friends-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
The governor of  New Jersey ,  Chris Christie , said  something  that caught my attention the other
night at an event sponsored by the American  Israel  Public
Affairs Committee, the pro-Israel lobbying group.  He paraphrased a quotation of  Franklin Delano Roosevelt ’s:
“I ask you to judge me by the enemies I have made,” and then
said: “In that same spirit, I would like to say to all of you
tonight: I admire Israel for the enemies it has made.”  It was an acute observation, and one made not quite often
enough. It is sometimes difficult, given Israel’s missteps, to
remember that it is a democracy whose enemies are among the
world’s most dangerous people.  For  American Jews , particularly the many who think of
themselves as centrist or as somewhat to the left of center, the
subject of Israel today provokes a contradictory and anxiety-
producing mass of feelings: pride, discomfort, bewilderment,
vexation, frustration, love. The precise mix often depends on
the day of the week and on the news of the day. It has become a
bit exhausting, thinking about Israel. (You can only imagine,
then, what it is like to actually live there.)  Defining Characteristics  Gone are the uncomplicated, Leon Uris-scripted days of one-
eyed war heroes and  Yoni Netanyahu’s martyrdom  on the tarmac
during the raid on Entebbe.  Benjamin Netanyahu  stirs up knottier
and more ambivalent feelings than his late brother ever did.
This prime minister, unlike several previous prime ministers,
seems not quite so interested in trying to reach an amicable
divorce with the Palestinians. So the continued occupation (and,
more to the point, settlement) of the West Bank, which offends
the sensibilities of many American Jews (and most other people),
is becoming Israel’s defining characteristic.  How sad it is that a flourishing democracy with a
contentious press and an independent judiciary, a haven for
inventors and scientists, the only Middle Eastern country where
it’s safe to be gay (and Christian, for that matter) is coming
to be known mainly for its retrograde occupation of the  West
Bank .  It is distressing for so many reasons: moral, political,
theological and reputational. And it obscures the underlying
cause of the conflict: The inability of many Arab Muslims, and
their supporters, to reconcile themselves to the unalterable
truth that the Jews are from the place that, before it was
called  Palestine , was called Judea and Israel.  It is also distressing because it muddies what should be
clear: Israel’s sins are quite often exaggerated, while the sins
of its enemies -- and here we return to Governor Christie’s
point -- could not be more heinous.  Let us consider Israel’s four principal adversaries of the
moment: the Islamic Republic of Iran, Bashar al-Assad’s Syria,
and the fundamentalist terrorist groups Hezbollah and Hamas. Few
would argue that the Israeli government has not behaved in
counterproductive and sometimes-brutal ways. But anyone who
possesses the basic powers of reason and observation understands
that  Iran  and Syria on their best days don’t match Israel on its
worst.  Iran is run by a regime whose first, defining act was of
mass hostage-taking. It is a country that has used its children
to  clear minefields  with their feet and that guns down others
when they protest repression. It is a country that uses rape as
a weapon against dissidents. It is a country that, according to
the U.S. Treasury Department, funds al-Qaeda.  Killing Innocents  Hamas is an organization that boasts of killing innocent
children and regularly kills Palestinians with whom it
disagrees, sometimes by throwing them from buildings. Hezbollah,
of course, is a proxy of Iran’s regime, its external terror
apparatus. Hezbollah has killed Americans, and its members have
been indicted in the assassination a Lebanese prime minister. It
seeks to impose an Islamist regime on Lebanon, and it functions
as an arms supplier to Assad, who is  Saddam Hussein ’s successor
as the world’s leading butcher.  I am not arguing that Israel should be held to the
debauched standard of behavior set by Iran or  Syria . (Israel
should be held to the standards of a Western democracy, albeit
one under threat of missile attack and other, similar
unpleasantness.) I’m actually arguing something different: That
Israel, like the Jewish people for whom it is a refuge, attracts
the hatred of terrible people, people whose terribleness would
still be profusely evident even if the Jews or Israel never
entered the frame. (Hitler and Stalin -- and Saddam -- come to
mind, of course, as well as the Crusaders, the inquisitors, the
pogromists, and I could go on).  The hatred of Jews and the Jewish national home by men whom
history has adjudged to be comprehensively evil should suggest a
couple of lessons. The possible theological and cosmological
lessons I will leave for another day, but the political lessons
are more obvious: Good people should take the hatred directed at
Israel by evil people as a sign that, just maybe, Israel’s basic
cause is just. Israel and its supporters should understand that
the enmity reflects well on their cause, and they should do
whatever they can to guarantee that their behavior could never
possibly be seen as analogous to the behavior of their enemies.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 