-- Women Have Higher Death Risk, Less Chest Pain From Heart Attack in Study
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-02-21T21:25:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/women-have-higher-death-risk-less-chest-pain-from-heart-attack-in-study.html
Women who are hospitalized for a
heart attack are less likely to experience chest pain and are
more likely to die than men the same age, researchers said.  The analysis published in the  Journal of the  American
Medical Association  is the largest to examine the interplay
among gender, age and chest pain when it comes to death from
 heart disease , the leading killer worldwide. Chest pain is the
hallmark symptom of a heart attack, according to researchers who
suggested its absence might help explain women’s increased risk.  The study examined the records of 1.1 million Americans
from 1994 to 2006 in the National Registry of Myocardial
Infarction, the largest database of  heart-attack  patients in the
world. Forty-two percent of women reported no chest pain when
they were hospitalized for a heart attack, known medically as a
myocardial infarction, compared with 30.7 percent of men. Almost
15 percent of the women died, compared with 10 percent of men.  “Our data suggest that the absence of chest pain is
associated with increased mortality, especially among younger
women,” said the researchers, led by John Canto, from the
Watson Clinic and Lakeland Regional Medical Center in  Florida .
“Patients without chest pain and discomfort tend to present
later, are treated less aggressively and have almost twice the
short-term mortality compared with those presenting with more
typical symptoms.”  The excess risk of dying in the hospital for women who
weren’t experiencing chest pain decreased with age, as the
oldest women were less likely to die than men the same age who
also weren’t suffering the tell-tale signs of a heart attack.  Common Symptoms  Chest pain and discomfort were still the most common
symptom among those hospitalized for heart attacks, and they
should be emphasized in public education campaigns, the
researchers said. The finding that the absence of chest pain may
help predict the risk of death is “provocative,” and should be
confirmed by additional studies, they said.  More than 1 million Americans suffer heart attacks each
year, and half die as a result, according to the  National
Institutes of Health . The report didn’t determine what other
symptoms heart-attack patients were having that led them to the
hospital, the researchers said. Previous studies show women in
particular may  experience  pain in the upper back or neck,
indigestion, nausea, extreme fatigue and shortness of breath.  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s Genentech unit funded the National
Registry of Myocardial Infarction and approved the final
manuscript of the paper. It didn’t play a role in the design,
management or analysis of the study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  