-- Yale Expresses Outrage at NYPD Monitoring of Muslim Students
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-02-21T22:15:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/yale-expresses-outrage-at-nypd-monitoring-of-muslim-students.html
Yale University President  Richard Levin  expressed outrage over revelations that the New York
Police Department used cyber surveillance and other tactics to
monitor Muslim student associations throughout the Northeast.  The report from the  Associated Press , outlined surveillance
dating back to 2006-2007 of Muslim students, part of a larger
effort to build databases of where Muslims lived, prayed and
shopped, according to the news service.  “Police surveillance based on religion, nationality or
peacefully expressed political opinions is antithetical to the
values of Yale, the academic community and the  United States ,”
Levin said today in a statement.  Police spokesmen provided 12 names of former members of
Muslim student associations who were later arrested or convicted
for terrorism, according to the AP. Student activities that were
recorded included a white-water rafting trip documented by an
undercover officer, the AP said.  The NYPD conducted the monitoring, because student groups
attract young Muslim men, a typical demographic for terrorists,
the AP reported.  Muslim student groups are sources of support for a
population that has “often been the target of thoughtless
stereotyping, misplaced fear and bigotry,” Levin said.  The universities under surveillance included Yale,  Columbia
University , the University of Pennsylvania and 13 others in the
region, according to the AP.  “We have to keep this country safe; this is a dangerous
place,” New York Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  told reporters today
during a Brooklyn news conference. “The job of  law enforcement 
is to make sure they prevent things, and you only do that by
being proactive. I don’t know why keeping the country safe is
antithetical to the values of Yale.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg LP,
the parent company of Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  