-- ThyssenKrupp, Securitas Sell Debt as Greek Aid Emboldens Issuers
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-21T14:33:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-21/thyssenkrupp-securitas-sell-debt-as-greek-aid-emboldens-issuers.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s largest
steelmaker, and security company  Securitas AB (SECUB)  are selling their
first bonds in  Europe  in almost three years as  Greece  won a
second rescue package to stave off bankruptcy.  ThyssenKrupp is raising 1.25 billion euros from five-year
notes in its first euro offering since June 2009, while
Stockholm-based Securitas is selling 350 million euros of bonds
in its first euro deal since April that year. The companies led
2.1 billion euros of corporate debt sales today, the most in a
week, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “The Greece deal gives European corporates and banks a
broader scope to tap primary debt markets, ramping up funding
activities with rates still very low and credit spreads at tight
levels,” said Norval Loftus, the chief investment officer at
Allegra Investment Management Ltd. in  London . “The European
new-issue corporate bond calendar should accelerate anew.”  Yields on investment-grade company bonds relative to the
benchmark swap rate have tumbled 52 basis points this year to
203, near the smallest gap in six months, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch index data show. Absolute yields have dropped to
3.66 percent from 4.4 percent at the start of the year.  ThyssenKrupp’s sale of five-year bonds will be priced to
yield 280 basis point more than the swap rate, according to a
banker involved in the transaction for the Essen, Germany-based
steelmaker. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Securitas  Securitas’s five-year securities will yield 125 basis
points more than the swap rate, said a banker with knowledge of
the deal who declined to be identified because the information
is private.  A ThyssenKrupp spokesman, who declined to be identified
citing company policy, confirmed the steelmaker was selling
bonds. Securitas spokeswoman Gisela Lindstrand said the company
was selling bonds without providing details.  European lenders also tapped bond investors.  Societe
Generale (GLE)  SA, France’s second-largest bank, and Denmark’s largest
lender  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  are selling unsecured debt.  Abbey National Treasury Services Plc, a U.K. unit of Banco
Santander SA, is offering investors 18-month floating-rate notes
in euros, according to a banker involved in the deal said. FGA
Capital SpA, a car-financing venture between Fiat SpA and Credit
Agricole SA, raised 500 million euros from two-year bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  