-- 
Microsoft, Computer Makers May Be Hurt as Floods Crimp Sales, IDC Says

-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 
2011-11-10T05:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-11-10/pc-makers-microsoft-may-be-hurt-as-floods-crimp-sales-idc-says.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ,  Lenovo Group
Ltd. (992) ,  Dell Inc. (DELL)  and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  are among companies that may
be hurt this quarter and in 2012 as flooding in  Thailand  strains
personal-computer supplies and raises prices, IDC said.  PC shipments will decline between 2.2 percent and 3.4
percent in the fourth quarter from a year earlier, down from a
prior forecast for 5.1 percent growth, IDC said today in a
report. In the first quarter, shipments may drop by 1.8 percent
to 13.4 percent. IDC had projected a gain of 8.2 percent.  Rising waters have swamped industrial parks in Thailand
where companies like  Western Digital Corp. (WDC)  and Toshiba Corp.
make about a quarter of the world’s disk drives. The PC
industry, already weighed down by concerns about a weak economy
and the surging popularity of tablets, would usually be in
“peak production” ahead of holiday demand right now, IDC said.  “A lot of these plants are still under water, and it’s
unclear how much damage they will find when the water recedes,”
Loren Loverde, an analyst at IDC, said in an interview. “It’s
also unclear how quickly the cleanup can begin and how much time
it will take to bring in replacement parts to rebuild.”  The flood has caused drive prices to increase by $10 to
$25,  Seagate Technology Plc (STX)  Chief Executive Officer Steve Luczo
said in an interview. That could rise further, he said.  “If you’re thinking of buying someone a laptop for
Christmas, I’d buy it now,” Luczo said. Seagate’s plants
haven’t been flooded, though the company has seen its supply
chain disrupted.  Goldman Sachs Forecast  IDC’s reduced forecast comes a day after  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  cut its own forecast for PC shipments for the fourth
quarter and next year. PC shipments will decline 3 percent this
quarter compared with a year earlier, down from a previous
estimate for an increase of 3.1 percent, Goldman analysts said
in a note yesterday.  First-quarter shipments will drop 8.5 percent, compared
with an earlier projection for an increase of 4 percent. For all
of 2012, shipments will rise 3.3 percent, Goldman Sachs said,
down from a previous forecast for an increase of 4.3 percent.  As a result, Goldman Sachs also pared its estimates for
Microsoft’s profit and sales. All server, storage and PC sellers
may experience some higher costs as a result of the hard-drive
shortages, Goldman Sachs said.  Palo Alto , California-based Hewlett-Packard was the world’s
biggest PC seller in the third quarter, according to IDC,
followed by Lenovo and Dell.  Higher-Profit Products  Smaller computer makers will bear the brunt of the
disruption in Thailand, as larger manufacturers will get first
crack at the available drives, IDC’s Loverde said. Even so,
Hewlett-Packard and the bigger vendors still will see supply
constrained and are likely to funnel the drives they have into
higher-profit products, such as server computers and pricey
laptops, and away from cheaper netbooks and mini-notebooks, he
said.  In the third quarter, total PC shipments rose less than
forecast, dragged down by disappointing back-to-school sales, a
sluggish economy and a shift to tablets and smartphones.
Framingham, Massachusetts-based IDC said global sales rose 3.6
percent, below the 4.5 percent growth it had predicted.  Computer memory-chip maker  Hynix Semiconductor Inc. (000660)  said
last month that the disaster may trim computer shipments in the
first quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at   dbass2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  