-- Ackman’s J.C. Penney Sale Ends Failed Saga to Agitate for Change
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-08-27T04:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/ackman-s-j-c-penney-sale-ends-failed-saga-to-agitate-for-change.html
Activist investor  Bill Ackman  is
selling his entire stake in  J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  after a public spat
with the company’s board, marking an end to more than two years
of failed efforts to agitate for changes at the retailer.  Pershing Square Capital Management LP, Ackman’s hedge fund,
said yesterday it hired  Citigroup Inc. (C)  to underwrite the sale of
its 39.1 million shares in the retailer, after reaching an
agreement earlier this month to unload its stake. The
department-store chain filed a prospectus for the shares that
account for about 18 percent of its stock and make Pershing its
largest investor.  The stake sale coincides with Ackman’s resignation from the
board of J.C. Penney on Aug. 12 after a public clash over its
direction and management. It also brings to an end his role as
activist investor at the company after his handpicked Chief
Executive Officer Ron Johnson alienated customers with a plan to
turn the chain into a collection of boutiques and presided over
its worst annual sales in more than two decades.  “Ackman overplayed his hand with Johnson,”  Paul Swinand ,
an analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago , said in an
interview. The move to sell his stake will be the end of “a
debacle” for J.C. Penney and its shareholders, Swinand said.  Citigroup will sell Ackman’s stake in J.C. Penney for
$12.90 apiece, according to two people with direct knowledge of
the matter, who asked not to be identified because the
discussions are private. Ackman would take a loss of about $500
million, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Jennifer
Burner, a spokeswoman for Pershing, didn’t immediately respond
to a request for comment.  Public Spat  J.C. Penney  shares  dropped 1.7 percent to $13.12 in
extended trading yesterday, after falling 1.1 percent to $13.35
at the close in New York. The stock has declined 32 percent this
year compared with a gain of 16 percent for the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  Ackman stepped down from J.C. Penney’s board after sparring
with his fellow directors over his push to replace Mike Ullman,
who succeeded Johnson in April as interim CEO. He drew the
board’s anger in the previous week by making public a letter he
sent to directors saying he had persuaded former J.C. Penney CEO
Allen Questrom to agree to return as chairman if he approved of
the next CEO.  Pershing became J.C. Penney’s largest shareholder in
October 2010. Ackman then joined the board in February 2011 and
began pushing for changes, assuming the activist role he also
took at many companies, including  Target Corp. (TGT)  Four months
later, the Plano, Texas-based department-store chose Johnson to
replace Ullman as CEO, hiring him away from heading Apple Inc.’s
successful stores.  Sweeping Changes  Johnson, with Ackman’s support, instituted sweeping changes
at J.C. Penney, including the removal of sales promotions and
private-label merchandise, popular among the retailer’s female
shoppers, and introducing a more upscale home department with
designer goods such as $60 toasters from architect Michael
Graves.  The strategy flopped, leading to a $985 million loss for
the year ended in February as sales plunged 25 percent to the
lowest since at least 1987.  It’s been a tough year for Ackman. His $11.2 billion
Pershing is trailing many of its biggest rivals this year with a
3.7 percent return through July in his largest fund.  Ackman is also nursing a paper loss on his short bet on
 Herbalife Ltd. (HLF) , a weight-loss and nutritional supplement
company, which he has accused of being a pyramid scheme. The
company has repeatedly denied the accusation.  Carl Icahn  and
 George Soros ’s family office have taken the other side of the
bet, helping the shares double in value this year.  Paper Loss  Ackman’s career has been dotted with both high-profile wins
and jaw-dropping losses. He raised a $2 billion fund to invest
in retailer Target in 2007, and then lost 90 percent of the
money in the next two years. At the time he called it “one of
the greatest disappointments” of his career.  At least one large investor has pulled money over
Pershing’s performance. Soros Fund Management LLC, the family
office of billionaire Soros, asked to withdraw about $250
million from Pershing last year. Because Ackman’s firm only
gives back a portion of investor cash each quarter, Soros won’t
get all its money back until next year.  The turnaround that eluded Johnson at J.C. Penney may be
gathering steam under Ullman. Since replacing Johnson in April,
Ullman has revived discounting and brought back merchandise to
attract core customers while shoring up J.C. Penney’s cash
balance with a $2.25 billion loan and an $850 million drawdown
from a revolving credit facility.  Sales Decline  In the second quarter, the retailer’s sales decline slowed.
Revenue in the quarter ended Aug. 3 fell 12 percent to $2.66
billion, less than the 23 percent drop in the same period last
year.  Ullman has also attracted other hedge fund investors
besides Soros and Icahn who back his strategy. J. Kyle Bass, who
focuses on corporate turnarounds, has accumulated a long
position in J.C. Penney this month by buying the company’s
secured loans, according to a person familiar with the matter,
who asked not to be named because the information is private.  To keep the turnaround going, Ullman will have to preserve
cash. J.C. Penney said on Aug. 20 when it announced its
quarterly results that it expected to end the year with more
than $1.5 billion in liquidity and that the forecast doesn’t
assume outside financing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  