-- AFL Hands Essendon Finals Ban, A$2 Million Fine Over Supplements
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-27T14:45:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/afl-hands-essendon-finals-ban-a-2-million-fine-over-supplements.html
Australian Football League club
Essendon was banned from this year’s finals series and given an
unprecedented A$2 million ($1.8 million) fine over the
supplements scandal that has overshadowed the 2013 season.  The AFL Commission also suspended Essendon coach James Hird
for 12 months, banned or fined two other key officials and
stripped the club of draft picks for the next two years for
bringing the game into disrepute by implementing a supplements
program in 2011 and 2012 that risked players being given banned
substances. Essendon  said it accepted  the penalties.  The sanctions, announced last night at a televised news
conference following two days of negotiations at the league’s
Melbourne headquarters, were the “most significant” in the
Australian rules competition’s history, AFL Chief Executive
Officer Andrew Demetriou said.  Essendon acknowledged that it had “established a
supplements program that was experimental, inappropriate and
inadequately vetted and controlled,” AFL Chairman Mike Fitzpatrick said in a  statement . “The club failed to ensure it
adequately protected the health, welfare and safety of the
players.”  The Bombers, who had been guaranteed a berth in next
month’s finals by finishing in the top eight of the regular-season standings, will officially finish in ninth place, the AFL
said. Five teams have a chance of taking the last playoff spot
going into this weekend’s final round.  Seven-Month Probe  Melbourne-based Essendon, the winner of 16 Premierships,
has been under investigation by the Australian Sport Anti-Doping
Authority and the AFL since early February over its use of
supplements. Essendon self-reported its concerns about the
program and officials and players co-operated fully with the AFL
and ASADA in the probe, during which 130 witnesses were
interviewed and 13,000 documents reviewed, the AFL said.  Essendon in February commissioned former Telstra Corp.
Chief Executive Officer Ziggy Switkowski to conduct a review of
its corporate governance from August 2011, which detailed “a
disturbing picture of a pharmacologically experimental
environment never adequately controlled or challenged or
documented within the club.”  The ASADA probe is ongoing and the anti-doping agency
earlier this month provided the AFL with a 400-page interim
report. Acting on that report, the AFL charged Essendon, Hird,
club doctor Bruce Reid, football manager Danny Corcoran and
assistant coach Mark Thompson with engaging in conduct
unbecoming and bringing the game into disrepute.  Corcoran was given a six-month ban from Oct. 1, two months
of which were suspended, while Thompson was fined A$30,000. Reid
is contesting his charge, which will be heard tomorrow.  Not Drug Cheats  Essendon Chairman Paul Little said last night the club’s
acceptance of the sanctions recognized failings that had
occurred during the supplement program.  “The admissions relate to governance and people
management, not the administration of prohibited or harmful
substances,” Little said. “Importantly, there is no allegation
of drug cheating.”  Demetriou said that Hird had apologized to the commission
for his role in the saga and had appeared to be “genuinely
remorseful.” The 40-year-old Hird, who captained the team to
the 2000 championship, will be welcome back as Bombers coach
after serving his ban, Little said.  “James Hird told the commission that he took
responsibility for the shortcomings in the club’s 2012
supplements program,” he said. “There is no doubt in my mind
that James Hird agreed to accept these penalties so the club
could move on. James is very keen to continue his coaching with
Essendon and the Essendon Football Club is very keen to have
James Hird continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  