-- Akorn Agrees to Purchase Hi-Tech Pharmacal for $640 Million
-- B y   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2013-08-27T20:07:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/akorn-agrees-to-purchase-hi-tech-pharmacal-for-640-million.html
Akorn Inc. (AKRX) , a maker of generic eye-care products, agreed to buy  Hi-Tech Pharmacal Co. (HITK)  for $640
million in cash to expand into areas including cold and cough
treatments.  Hi-Tech investors will receive $43.50 a share,  Lake Forest ,
Illinois-based Akorn said in a statement today. That’s 24
percent more than yesterday’s closing share price for Hi-Tech.  Akorn, which calls itself the third-biggest U.S. maker of
generic eye products, said the acquisition of Amityville, New
York-based Hi-Tech will add to earnings as soon as the deal is
completed. The combined company will have annual revenue of more
than $500 million. Akorn said it plans to fund the acquisition
with a combination of Hi-Tech’s cash and about $600 million in
loans.  “The portfolio of Hi-Tech products is a great strategic
fit to our currently marketed products as it diversifies our
offering to our retail customers beyond ophthalmics to other
niche dosage forms,” Akorn Chief Executive Officer Raj Rai said
in the statement. “We also plan to capitalize on the
manufacturing capabilities of Hi-Tech to further expand our
presence in the private label OTC business.”  Akorn rose 9.6 percent to $18.02 at 4 p.m.  New York  time,
its biggest one-day increase since November 2011. Hi-Tech
increased 22 percent to $42.99.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was financial adviser and Kirkland &
Ellis LLP and Polsinelli PC were legal advisers to Akorn. Nomura
Securities International Inc. was financial adviser and Arent
Fox LLP and Tashlik Goldwyn Crandell Levy LLP were legal
advisers to Hi-Tech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bruce Rule in New York at 
 brule1@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  