-- Amazon Adds Ability to Buy Goods From Within Mobile Apps
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-08-27T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/amazon-adds-ability-to-buy-goods-from-within-mobile-apps.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  said it’s
introducing a feature that will let people shop for goods from
within mobile applications.  Software developers will be able to create games, sports,
weather and other apps that sell products from Amazon, either
inside the app or by linking to Amazon’s Web store, the Seattle-based company said in a statement today.  While consumers could buy digital goods such as game
features and magazines via in-app purchasing, Amazon has only
previously tested the sale of physical products through the same
channel. The new initiative gives Amazon Chief Executive Officer
 Jeff Bezos  more opportunities to sell merchandise while letting
software developers earn a commission of up to 6 percent from
the online retailer for any sales they generate.  “Imagine a developer of a nutrition and fitness app can
now offer their customers the ability to purchase vitamins,
supplements and fitness gear within the app, directly from
Amazon,” Mike George, Amazon’s vice president in charge of
games, app store and cloud drive, said in the statement.  Days of Wonder Inc., a games company, said it’s introducing
a new version of its “Ticket to Ride” mobile app that will
also let users buy the board game via Amazon. In some cases,
users will be able to buy both the physical and digital versions
of a game as a single package.  Amazon gave developers the ability to add in-app purchasing
for digital content in April 2012, matching a feature already
offered by  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Walt Disney Co., Conde
Nast Inc.,  Gameloft SE (GFT)  and Dow Jones & Co. were some of the
first participants in Amazon’s program.  Physical, Digital  Eric Hautemont, CEO of  Los Altos , California-based Days of
Wonder, said the physical and digital versions of games are
complementary. When the company released the iPad version of
“Ticket to Ride,” sales of the board game jumped 30 percent.
When the iPhone version came out, they jumped another 30
percent, he said.  “Our expectation is going to be a significantly greater
conversion rate from people that have never played Ticket to
Ride and discover the Kindle version, and end up buying the
physical board game as a result,” Hautemont said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  