-- American Realty CEO Buys Sillerman’s Manhattan Townhouse
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2013-08-27T22:01:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/american-realty-ceo-buys-sillerman-s-manhattan-townhouse.html
Nicholas Schorsch, the chief
executive officer of single-tenant landlord American Realty
 Capital Properties Inc. (CPTP) , bought a townhouse on Manhattan’s Upper
East Side for $13.9 million.  The seller of the property, at 159 East 70th St., is
entertainment executive  Robert F.X. Sillerman , records filed
today with the New York City Department of Finance show. The
four-story property between Lexington and Third Avenues includes
six residential units, and was built in 1910, according to real
estate website Propertyshark.com.  Schorsch’s American Realty Capital has been on a buying
spree as it seeks to become one of the country’s largest single-tenant landlords. Last month, the New York-based company agreed
to purchase American Realty Capital Trust IV, a nonlisted real
estate investment trust, in a deal valued at $3.1 billion. In
May, it agreed to acquire  CapLease Inc. (LSE)  for $2.2 billion.
Schorsch is also the head of AR Capital LLC, the top fundraiser
among U.S. nontraded REITs.  American Realty Capital plans to complete $1.1 billion of
deals in the second half of the year, after which it will be the
second-biggest single-tenant landlord in the U.S.  Realty Income
Corp. (O) , based in Escondido, California, is the largest.  Schorsch is financing the Manhattan townhouse purchase with
a $7.12 million mortgage from Bank of America Corp., according
to public records.  Anthony DeFazio, a spokesman for American Realty Capital,
said he couldn’t immediately comment on the sale. Ed Tagliaferri, a spokesman for Sillerman, declined to comment.  Sillerman is the former chairman and CEO of CKX Inc., the
owner of the “American Idol” brand that was acquired by Apollo
Global Management LLC in 2011. He now leads New York-based
 Viggle Inc. (VGGL) , the developer of a program that allows viewers to
“check in” to television shows they are watching, and collect
points that are redeemable for items such as movie tickets,
music or gift cards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  