-- Angola’s Dos Santos to Extend Rule as Proteges Founder
-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-08-27T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/angola-s-dos-santos-to-extend-rule-as-proteges-founder.html
Angolan President Jose Eduardo dos Santos may extend his 34 years in power because the people who
he’d like to replace him lack support from the ruling party.  Last year Dos Santos chose Manuel Domingos Vicente, 57, the
former head of the national oil company, Sonangol, as his vice
president and this year put his son, 35-year-old Jose Filomeno de Sousa dos Santos, in charge of a $5 billion sovereign wealth
fund.  While both would continue the economic policies that have
made Angola sub-Saharan  Africa ’s third-biggest economy neither
have won favor with senior members of the Popular Movement for
the Liberation of Angola, said analysts including Justin Pearce
of the School of Oriental and Asian Studies in London and Leif
Biureborgh, a Luanda-based analyst who advises companies
including Ericsson AB.  “He’s not going to resign because he hasn’t found a
credible successor that’s acceptable to the party,” Elias Isaac, Angola Director of the Open Society Initiative for Sub-Saharan Africa, said in an Aug. 21 interview in Luanda, the
capital. “He’ll drag on.”  Dos Santos, who came to power in 1979, will turn 71 today,
and the MPLA celebrates his birthday with rallies, parades and
public announcements. He presided over Africa’s second-biggest
oil producer through most of a 27-year civil war that ended in
2002.  The first step for succession is the election of a new
party leader, Dos Santos told Portugal’s SIC television in June
in the first formal interview he’s granted for several years.  Civil War  The president’s birthday isn’t an appropriate time to
discuss succession, said Carolina Fortes, spokeswoman for the
Luanda provincial party office.  In Africa only Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, the leader of
Equatorial Guinea, has been in power longer.  Founded in 1962 the MPLA fought a guerrilla war against
Portuguese colonizers and then led the country from independence
in 1975. The same year a civil war against the National Union
for The Total Independence of Angola, or Unita, began.  Vicente ran Sonangol from 1999 until 2012, a period when
the oil company nearly doubled the country’s production to 1.78
million barrels a day, second on the continent to only Nigeria,
through ventures with companies including  Total SA (FP)  and  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)   He was appointed by Dos Santos as a special minister in
charge of the economy before he was selected as the Angolan
leader’s running mate in last year’s election, which the MPLA
won with 72 percent of the vote.  ‘Like Children’  “Vicente was parachuted in and the MPLA, a large party in
which there’s always been debate, was saying don’t treat them
like children,” Biureborgh said in an Aug. 20 interview in
Luanda. “If there’s no wide-felt legitimacy it’s not
sustainable.”  The vice-president is “technically competent,” earning
the support of foreign oil companies, Biureborgh said.  BP Plc (BP/) 
and  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  also operate in the country.  “Vicente as the next president of Angola would signal a
continuation of the economic model that Angola has pursued so
far, which is characterized by a relatively stable operating
environment in the all important petroleum sector,” Markus Weimer, an analyst at Control Risks in  London , said by e-mail.
“For oil companies this makes Vicente an attractive prospect
for the presidency.”  Continuity, Stability  Angola’s economy has expanded every year since 1994, with
growth peaking at 22.6 percent in 2007, according to the World
Bank. The $114 billion economy will probably expand 6.5 percent
this year and between 7 percent and 8 percent next year,
according to the central bank.  Dos Santos has appointed a second-in-command before,
including former prime ministers Marcolino Moco and Lopo de
Nascimento, and former vice president Fernando da Piedade Dias
dos Santos, known as Nando, who were later cast aside and often
blamed for problems, Pearce said.  “This strategy allows Dos Santos to present himself as a
figure of continuity and stability and to limit the ambitions of
any would-be successors,” Pearce said. “The old guy could be
there until he’s dead or infirm.”  That Vicente didn’t have a leading role in the independence
movement and the civil war lowers his standing in the eyes of
the party, Biureborgh said.  Banks, Phones  “The issue for Dos Santos is to find someone to trust who
will protect him” and his family after he steps down, Isaac
said. His daughter, Isabel dos Santos, owns stakes in Banco BIC
SA, the country’s biggest bank by branches, and Unitel SA, the
largest mobile phone operator, as well as restaurants and
nightclubs.  Angola ranks 157th out of 176 countries on Transparency
International’s 2012 Corruption Perceptions Index. In 2011 the
International Monetary Fund said the country transferred $32
billion to offshore accounts between 2007 and 2010. The money
was in “excess” of debt servicing needs, the IMF said.  The president’s eldest son, Jose Filomeno, a former
director of Luanda-based Banco Kwanza Invest, is tainted by the
perception of nepotism  because the president appointed him to
head the sovereign wealth fund, which was started this year,
Isaac said.  “A monarchistic effort would be very difficult,”
Biureborgh said. “It risks splitting the MPLA which would be
bad for the elite.”  ‘Long-Term Game’  Other power brokers in the party, such as General Manuel
Helder Vieira Dias Junior, known as Kopelipa, a state security
official, are weak politically because they have numerous
business deals, Biureborgh said. Vicente, who owned part of a
company that sold a portion of its stake in an oil exploration
concession with  Cobalt International Energy Inc. (CIE)  to Sonangol,
faces the same scrutiny, Isaac said.  Powerful people within the party include former vice
president Nando, Julius Mateus Paulo, the MPLA’s general
secretary and General Jose Maria, head of the military
intelligence agency.  Bornito Baltazar Diogo de Sousa, territorial administration
minister, and Manuel Jose Nunes Junior, a member of parliament,
as well as Nando are potential successors as are Antonio Paulo
Kassoma, Pitra Neto and Joao Lourenco, London-based Africa
Confidential reported in July, citing an unidentified party
member.  The longer Dos Santos remains in power, the more pressure
will increase for reform and better state delivery of jobs,
education and health care, Alex Vines, head of the African
program at Chatham House in London, said by e-mail. While the
country is classified as “upper middle income” by the World
Bank with gross domestic product per capita of $5,485, most
people live on less than $2 a day, according to the United
Nations.  The party could push him to step down ahead of the 2017
elections because he’s seen as a liability, Pearce said.  “Some see themselves as brokers, others have ambition,”
Vines said. “This remains a long-term game and Dos Santos keeps
everybody guessing about his intentions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  