-- Apple E-Books Judge Says She’ll Limit Antitrust Remedies
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2013-08-28T04:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/apple-e-books-judge-says-she-ll-limit-antitrust-remedies.html
The federal judge who last month
found  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  liable for fixing e-book prices said she plans
to limit the remedies sought by the U.S. to ensure they “rest
as lightly as possible” on the way the company does business.  U.S. District Judge Denise Cote in  Manhattan  yesterday said
she intends to narrow several of the measures suggested by the
Justice Department to prevent future e-book price-fixing,
including the authority of a monitor appointed by the court to
assess Apple’s antitrust compliance training.  Cote ruled last month after a three-week  trial  that Apple,
the maker of the iPad tablet computer, helped coordinate a
conspiracy with five book publishers to limit retail price
competition and raise e-book prices.  The judge said she will require Apple to abandon for two
years agency pricing agreements, under which publishers set
retail prices and Apple was paid a percentage of the sale price.  She said she will sign a final order spelling out the
remedies next week.  The U.S. sued Cupertino, California-based Apple and the
five publishers in April 2012. After the trial, which began June
3, Apple was also found liable to 33 states that joined the
 Justice Department  in the suit. The company faces a separate
trial on damages. The Justice Department didn’t ask for money
damages in its case.  Apple, which plans to appeal Cote’s judgment, also faces
private consumer class actions over e-book pricing. The judge’s
findings may aid the private plaintiffs.  Cote said yesterday she hopes that Apple, the world’s
biggest technology company, will bring its “excellence and
exceptionalism” to the task of training employees to comply
with antitrust law and that it will “make a sincere effort to
reform its culture.”  The case is U.S. v. Apple Inc., 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in  New York  at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  