-- Argentina Plans New York-Buenos Aires Bond Swap
-- B y   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-08-27T18:14:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/argentina-plans-new-york-buenos-aires-bond-swap-on-singer.html
Argentina  is offering to swap
holders of New York-law bonds into debt governed by local
legislation as investors shift into the notes after a U.S. court
sided with creditors seeking full repayment on claims from the
nation’s record default in 2001.  The move comes after the Aug. 23 ruling, which prompted
dollar-denominated local law bonds due 2017 to rally and yield
3.95 percentage points less than similar-maturity notes issued
under  New York  rules yesterday. The gap grew to within 0.11
percentage point of the record 4.06 percentage point difference
April 3. At 11.85 percent, the local-law debt yielded twice the
emerging-market average, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Faced with the prospect of paying the holdout creditors in
full or risking a second default in 12 years, President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  said in a national address yesterday she
will offer a third swap at the same terms to owners of defaulted
debt who rejected previous exchanges, as well as to holders of
the restructured notes. The proposal is aimed at circumventing
the U.S. court ruling without reneging on payments to the New
York-law bondholders.  “There was always the expectation that if Argentina
couldn’t win in court, it would find anther way to get its way,
for example, by re-routing payments,” Diego Ferro, co-chief
investment officer at Greylock Capital Management, which
oversees $500 million in emerging-market debt including
restructured Argentine bonds, said in a telephone interview.
“It’s a predictable patch solution that in the end guarantees
that dollar debt will be paid.”  Bonds Fall  Greylock hasn’t decided whether it’ll accept the debt swap
into local law, Ferro said.  Argentina’s proposal trigged declines in the local-law
bonds today. The dollar securities due 2017 fell the most in
four months, plunging 2.88 cents to 85.26 cents on the dollar at
2:09 p.m. in New York. Dollar notes due 2017 sold under New York
law tumbled 1.73 cents to 78.43 cents on the dollar.  The appeals court on Aug. 23 said it would delay the effect
of its ruling until the U.S.  Supreme Court  decides whether to
review the case, which may not come until the first quarter of
2014, according to law firm Shearman & Sterling LLP. The stay
would be lifted if the Supreme Court doesn’t take the case
putting subsequent bond payments in jeopardy of default since
Argentina has said it won’t obey the court orders to pay
creditors Fernandez has dubbed “vultures.”  ‘Serial Payers’  The debt swap would be offered into local law debt in the
same terms and currency as original bonds, according to
Fernandez.  “Instead of recalcitrant debtors, we are serial payers,”
Fernandez, 60, said in her speech, adding that the country has
paid about $174 billion in debt since 2003. “The ruling ignored
the country’s accords reached with 93 percent of holders of
defaulted debt.”  She also said the ruling invalidates future debt
restructurings and asked God to “illuminate” the U.S. high
court.  The changing of jurisdiction on performing debt governed by
international law will be voluntary and dependent on the outcome
of the nation’s request for the Supreme Court to take their
case, a government official, who isn’t authorized to speak
publicly about the plans, said in an interview. The re-opening
of the swap is intended to show the Supreme Court the nation’s
willingness to pay, he said.  ‘Most Pragmatic’  The Supreme Court grants only one percent of about 8,000
petitions it receives every year.  “This is the most pragmatic thing they could have done,”
said Alberto Bernal, head of fixed-income research at Bulltick
Capital Markets in Miami. “It’s good news for bonds because it
shows total willingness to pay, even if Argentina is trying to
circumvent U.S. courts.”  Banks from Credit Suisse Group AG to Barclays Plc say that
investors should buy local-law bonds, which are exempt from the
court orders, as  default risk  for debt sold abroad increases
after Argentina’s appeal was rejected.  “We recommend only the shortest local-law bonds in
Argentina,” said Daniel Chodos, a strategist at Credit Suisse,
said in a telephone interview from New York, referring to dollar
notes due 2013 and 2015. “The ruling states that the order is
for the exchange bonds, which were sold under foreign law, so
local law bonds shouldn’t be involved.”  ‘Right Mind’  Investors will probably switch to the 2015 bonds after the
government pays $2 billion of principal on the 2013 bonds next
month, giving the longer notes additional support, Chodos said.  “Nobody in their right mind would resign New York
protection for Argentine law,” Jorge Piedrahita, chief
executive officer of Torino Capital LLC in New York, said in an
e-mail. “Payments would be easily embargoed by Elliott and
there’s the risk of having to get the money out of Argentina.”  Argentina in 2001 defaulted on a record $95 billion of
foreign debt. Holders of about 91 percent of the bonds agreed to
take new exchange bonds in 2005 and 2010, at about 30 cents on
the dollar. Creditors including billionaire  Paul Singer ’s
Elliott Management Corp. have rejected the swaps.  Fernandez last week reassured bond investors that she won’t
change terms on securities sold under Argentine legislation
after the central bank set aside $2.3 billion for debt payments
this year, of which $2 billion are for local law.  ‘Important Message’  “It’s an important message to the international community
because we are paying local-law maturities,” she said in an
Aug. 21 speech. “We haven’t changed the terms in local law debt
in 10 years and won’t start to.”  Argentina’s vow to continue paying performing bonds
regardless of the court ruling had spurred speculation the
government will change legislation of its New York-law exchange
bonds to a jurisdiction outside the U.S.  The extra yield investors demand to own Argentine bonds
over  U.S. Treasuries  widened 33 basis points, or 0.33 percentage
point, to 1,108 basis points today, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co. data.  Argentina’s five-year credit default swaps, contracts
insuring the nation’s debt against non-payment, rose 265 basis
points to 2,745 basis points at 2 p.m. New York time, according
to data compiled by CMA Ltd. The peso fell 0.2 percent to
5.6427.  ‘Pesofication’ Risk  Still, the fastest decline in  central bank reserves  since
2001 is spurring concern Argentina will pay its local law bonds
in pesos, a process known as “pesofication.” The fair value of
Argentine  government bonds  due 2015, called Boden 15, is 87.2
cents per dollar, compared with yesterday’s price of 95.15,
according to an Aug. 9 Citigroup Inc. report.  Argentina has $15.3 billion of dollar debt due by the end
of 2015 including interest, compared with $36.9 billion of
reserves as of yesterday. Reserves are on track to fall to $25
billion by the end of 2015, according to Citigroup.  South America ’s second biggest economy will have enough
foreign currency funds to continue making payments on dollar
bonds in the next three years, Barclays Plc analyst Sebastian Vargas said in a telephone interview from New York.  “We’re keeping our market weight position and reiterating
our recommendation to buy Boden 15,” Vargas said. “Instead of
pesofying you could simply not even pay a dime and kick the
payments five years down the road. Why would you pesofy? Instead
of pesofying you would simply forcibly restructure debt, but
that is not in the cards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Camila Russo in New York at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net ;
 Michael Tsang  at 
 mtsang1@bloomberg.net  