-- Argentina to Reopen Debt Swap After Adverse U.S. Court Ruling
-- B y   E l i a n a   R a s z e w s k i   a n d   C a m i l a   R u s s o
-- 2013-08-27T00:39:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/argentina-to-reopen-debt-swap-after-adverse-u-s-court-ruling.html
Argentina  will send a bill to
Congress tomorrow to reopen a debt restructuring for those
creditors who haven’t accepted previous swaps after the nation’s
2001 default, said President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner .  The new swap, if approved by Congress, will offer holders
of defaulted debt the same securities issued in previous
restructurings in 2005 and 2010, Fernandez said in a nationally
televised speech. She also said that holders of restructured
bonds, who accepted discounts of as much as 70 percent, will be
able to swap them into securities governed by Argentine law in a
bid to prevent payment disruptions from a U.S. court ruling in
favor of the holdouts.  The announcement came after a three-judge panel in a U.S.
appeals court rejected Argentina’s attempt at reverting a ruling
in favor of the defaulted debt holders, led by billionaire hedge
fund manager  Paul Singer ’s Elliott Management Corp. and Aurelius
Capital Management LP. Argentina argued that forcing it to pay
holdouts at the expense of investors of restructured debt would
violate its sovereignty and expose it to a fresh financial
crisis by receiving billions of dollars in new claims. Fernandez
rejected the court’s titling of the country as “a uniquely
recalcitrant debtor.”  “Instead of recalcitrant debtors, we are serial payers,”
Fernandez, 60, said in her speech, adding that the country has
paid about $174 billion in debt since 2003. “The ruling ignored
the country’s accords reached with 93 percent of holders of
defaulted debt.”  With the effect of the ruling delayed until the U.S.
 Supreme Court  decides whether to hear the case, a resolution may
not come until the first quarter of 2014, according to law firm
Shearman & Sterling LLP.  “We beg God to illuminate the U.S. Supreme Court,”
Fernandez said.  The changing of jurisdiction on performing debt governed by
international law will be voluntary and depending on the
nation’s request for the Supreme Court to take their case, a
government official, who isn’t authorized to speak publicly
about the plans, said in an interview. The re-opening of the
swap is intended to show the Supreme Court the nation’s
willingness to pay, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eliana Raszewski in  Buenos Aires  at 
 eraszewski@bloomberg.net ;
Camila Russo in  New York  at 
 crusso15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andre Soliani at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net  