-- Las Vegas Sands to Pay $47.4 Million in U.S. Agreement
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2013-08-28T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/las-vegas-sands-reaches-non-prosecution-deal-with-u-s-.html
Las Vegas Sands Corp. (LVS) , operator of
the Venetian-Palazzo hotel complex in the largest U.S. gambling
market, will pay $47.4 million to end a federal probe of its
failure to report a high-stakes patron’s suspicious deposits.  In a non-prosecution agreement with U.S. Attorney Andre Birotte in  Los Angeles , the company, the largest U.S.-based
casino operator, will turn over money the gambler lost and won’t
face charges, Birotte’s office said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. It was the first time a casino has agreed to give
such funds to the government, prosecutors said.  “What happens in Vegas no longer stays in Vegas,” Birotte
said in the statement. “For the first time, a casino has faced
the very real possibility of a federal criminal case for failing
to properly report suspicious funds received from a gambler.”  The patron, Zhenli Ye Gon, who identified himself to the
casino as the owner of a chemical business, wired or deposited
$58 million with Las Vegas Sands from February 2005 to March
2007, according to a statement of facts included with the
agreement.  Ye Gon was the largest all-cash, up-front gambler the
Venetian had ever done business with, prosecutors said in the
statement. His bets were monitored in real time and his losses
large enough to affect the bonuses of casino executives. He lost
$90.1 million at the company’s casinos, including credit loaned
to him, the government said.  Awaiting Extradition  In March 2007, Ye Gon’s  Mexico  City home was raided and law
enforcement officials seized $207 million in U.S. currency. He
is awaiting extradition to Mexico where he was charged with
drug-trafficking, according to the statement. The company failed
to adequately investigate Ye Gon, his respective companies or
his source funds, prosecutors said.  Casinos are required to file suspicious activity reports
when a customer is involved in a transaction the casino knows,
suspects, or has reason to suspect “had no business or apparent
lawful purpose or was not the sort in which the particular
customer would normally be expected to engage, and the casino
knew of no reasonable explanation for the transaction after
examining the available facts.”  “The company has cooperated fully and that effort was
recognized,”  Ron Reese , a spokesman for Las Vegas Sands, said
yesterday in a statement. The company confirmed the agreement.  In July Las Vegas Sands lost a bid to set aside a $101.6
million jury award to Richard Suen, a Hong Kong businessman who
claimed he helped the casino operator obtain a gaming license in
Macau.  The company also faces a wrongful termination lawsuit by
its former Macau casino chief  Steven Jacobs .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Palmeri in Los Angeles at 
 cpalmeri1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  