-- Asian Stocks Fall as U.S. Vows to Hold Syria Accountable
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2013-08-27T10:39:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/asian-stocks-fall-as-kerry-says-u-s-to-hold-syria-accountable.html
Asian  stocks  fell, with the regional
benchmark index snapping a two-day gain, after the U.S. pledged
to hold  Syria ’s government to account for deadly chemical-weapons attacks on its people, damping investors’ risk appetite.  Billabong International Ltd., an Australian surf-wear
company, slumped 5.3 percent after it posted a loss more than
three times its market value and said its core brand was
worthless. ENN Energy Holdings Ltd. fell 5.4 percent in Hong
Kong after the gas-pipeline operator’s first-half net income
missed estimates.  Tokyo Electric  Power Co. jumped 12 percent
after the government said it would take over handling
radioactive spills at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant.  The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index fell 0.6 percent to 130.84 as
of 7:37 p.m. in  Tokyo , with about three shares dropping for each
that gained on the gauge.  “There’s uncertainty over the geopolitical issues,”  Angus Gluskie , chief investment officer at White Funds Management in
Sydney, where he helps oversee about $500 million, said by
telephone. “It’s a destabilizing factor. Many people like us
would be saying let’s stand on the sidelines. At the moment,
we’re not putting more money back into equities.”  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index declined 0.6 percent. Trading
of PetroChina Co. and Kunlun Energy Co., a unit of PetroChina,
was suspended.  PetroChina  PetroChina, the nation’s biggest energy producer, announced
after the close that three executives under investigation
resigned. The company was planning management changed at its
Daqing oilfield after a government probe of the unit’s top
executive, said two people familiar with the situation.  Japan’s Topix index slid 0.5 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex Index
slid 0.9 percent. Singapore’s Straits Times Index dropped 1.6
percent, falling a ninth day, its longest losing streak since
September 2002. South Korea’s Kospi Index fell 0.1 percent as
data showed the nation’s  consumer confidence  was unchanged in
August.  The S&P BSE Sensex plunged 3.2 percent in Mumbai after the
rupee weakened and the Indian government passed legislation
expanding the world’s largest food program.  New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index lost 0.1 percent. Australia’s
S&P/ASX 200 added 0.1 percent. China’s Shanghai Composite Index
gained 0.3 percent as data showed July profit at industrial
companies gained 11.6 percent from a year earlier.  ‘Cowardly Crime’  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  fell 0.6 percent
today. The measure lost 0.4 percent yesterday, reversing gains.
In the strongest terms yet from a U.S. official, Secretary of
State  John Kerry  yesterday denounced an attack last week on a
Damascus suburb as a “cowardly crime” requiring a response
against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime.  The Asia-Pacific gauge has risen 1.1 percent so far this
year,  lagging  a 16 percent surge in the  S&P 500  through
yesterday, as growth slows in China and speculation that the
 Federal Reserve  will curb economic stimulus spurs investors to
sell assets across Asia and  emerging markets .  “While tapering is inevitable, timing remains uncertain
and data-dependent,”  Donald Williams , Sydney-based chief
investment officer at Platypus Asset Management Ltd., which
manages about $1 billion, wrote in an e-mail. “By the time it
starts, it will be priced into stocks.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific index trades at 12.8 times estimated
earnings, compared with 15 for the S&P 500 and 13.7 times for
the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Billabong Slumps  Billabong lost 5.3 percent to 53.5 Australian cents. The
company said its 40-year-old surf brand was worthless after the
company’s losses tripled amid store closures, firings and a
breach of debt terms.  ENN Energy slid 5.4 percent to HK$38.45 after reporting a
lower-than-expected 737 million  yuan  ($120 million) net income
for the first half.  China Southern Airlines Co. slid 3.8 percent to HK$2.81
after Asia’s biggest carrier by traffic reported first-half
profit dropped 19 percent to 344 million yuan, missing analysts’
estimates.  Tokyo Electric jumped 12 percent to 531 yen as Japan’s
government said it will lead “emergency measures” to tackle
radioactive water spills at the wrecked Fukushima nuclear plant.  People’s Insurance Company (Group) of China Ltd., parent of
the nation’s biggest non-life insurer, rose 1.6 percent to
HK$3.80 in  Hong Kong , the highest close since June 6. The
company reported a better-than-expected 53 percent jump in
profit.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Haigh in Sydney at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  