-- Oil Reaches Two-Year High on Syria as Energy Leads Stocks
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-08-28T20:10:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/asian-futures-slump-as-u-s-stocks-slide-syria-fuels-oil.html
Oil reached a two-year high amid
growing concern there will be an American-led military strike
against  Syria , while U.S. stocks rebounded following the worst
two-day slump since June. Treasuries snapped a four-day advance
and European shares declined.  West Texas Intermediate oil added 1 percent to $110.10 a
barrel after climbing as much as 3 percent to $112.24. The
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  gained 0.3 percent to 1,634.96 as
Exxon Mobil Corp. and Chevron Corp. climbed more than 2 percent.
The dollar strengthened against 11 of its 16 major peers while
the pound climbed from a three-week low versus the euro. Ten-year Treasury  yields  rose six basis points to 2.77 percent as a
sale of five-year debt drew the least demand in four years.  The U.S. and its allies are moving closer to a military
strike against Syria in response to an alleged chemical weapons
attack near Damascus last week. President  Barack Obama  plans to
release an intelligence assessment this week and U.K. Prime
Minister  David Cameron  said Britain will put forward a draft
resolution at the United Nations today authorizing action to
protect civilians.  “This market is reflecting anxiety about the  Middle
East ,” said Adam Wise, who helps manage a $6 billion oil and
gas bond portfolio as a managing director at Manulife Asset
Management in  Boston . “As long as tension escalates in the
region, specifically in Syria and  Iran , you can expect prices to
move higher. More news-driven price spikes are on the table.”  Broader Conflict  U.S. stocks declined and crude rallied yesterday amid
speculation that a strike against Syria may spread to other
parts of the Middle East and threaten exports from a region that
produces 35 percent of the world’s oil.  Saudi Arabia , the
largest supplier in the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, has backed rebels opposed to Syrian President Bashar
al-Assad. Assad’s allies include Iran, the group’s sixth-biggest
producer.  “The fear here is that a strike on Syria will lead to a
broader regional conflict,”  Stephen Schork , president of the
Schork Group Inc., an energy advisory company in Villanova,
 Pennsylvania , said in a report today.  WTI crude for October delivery touched the highest price
since May 2011 and Brent oil climbed 2 percent to $116.61, the
highest close since Feb. 19. Brent may rise to as high as $150 a
barrel if Middle East conflict disrupts supply, according to
Societe Generale SA.  Commodity Movers  The  S&P GSCI (SPGSCI)  gauge of raw materials jumped 0.7 percent to
the highest since Feb. 20. Cocoa, gasoline, coffee and Brent oil
led gains among 11 of the 24 commodities in the index. Copper
fell 0.3 percent to $7,290 a metric ton.  The S&P 500 dropped the most in two months yesterday,
extending its two-day decline to 2 percent and closing at the
lowest level since July 3. Among stocks moving today, energy
shares rose 1.8 percent as a group to lead gains among the 10
main S&P 500 industries. TiVo Inc. climbed 5.6 percent after the
maker of digital-video recorders posted a profit. Joy Global
Inc. lost 4.7 percent as the mining equipment maker said orders
for new equipment are declining.  “We’re simply just seeing a little bit of bounce back from
what was very bad action yesterday,”  Walter Todd , who oversees
about $950 million as chief investment officer of Greenwood
Capital Associates LLC in Greenwood, South Carolina, said by
phone. “There are probably starting to be opportunities that
are being created in certain segments of the market as a result
of this sell-off, and investors are wisely looking to see if
they can take advantage of some of those.”  Record, Retreat  The S&P 500 closed below its average for the past 100 days
of 1,638.3 today after slipping below the technical level
yesterday for the first time since June. The index has lost 4.4
percent from a record high on Aug. 2 amid growing speculation
the  Federal Reserve  will reduce its monthly bond buying. Minutes
of the Fed’s July meeting released Aug. 21 showed policy makers
supported stimulus cuts this year if the economy improves. Fed
stimulus helped push the  S&P 500  up as much as 153 percent from
its March 2009 low.  An S&P index of 11 homebuilders lost 1.1 percent, extending
yesterday’s 2.5 percent decline. Fewer Americans signed
contracts in July to buy previously owned homes, a sign that
rising mortgage rates are starting to slow momentum in the
housing market. The index of pending home sales dropped 1.3
percent, the most this year, figures from the National
Association of Realtors showed today. Economists forecast no
change in the gauge from the month before, according to a median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  Correlations  Oil and American equities are moving in opposite directions
by the most in almost two years amid prospects of military
intervention in Syria.  While the S&P 500 slid 1.6 percent yesterday, West Texas
Intermediate surged 2.9 percent on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The 4.5 percentage-point divergence was the widest
since November 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The commodity’s advance amid the biggest retreat in U.S.
shares since June shows attention is shifting to armed conflict
and away from the world economy. Oil and the S&P 500 have been
positively correlated since April 2011 as the global financial
crisis receded. The link is breaking down on concern a U.S.
attack may escalate and disrupt supplies from the region that
holds almost half of all proven oil reserves.  Currency Moves  The dollar strengthened 0.7 percent against the yen and 0.4
percent versus the euro. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which
tracks the currency against 10 major peers, rose 0.4 percent.
The pound climbed 0.3 percent to 1.1639 euros as Bank of England
Governor  Mark Carney  said guidance on  interest rates  will help
the economy as growth prospects are “solid not stellar.”  The U.S. five-year note yield climbed from the lowest level
in more than a week, increasing six basis points to 1.58
percent.  The notes sold today drew a yield of 1.624 percent,
compared with a forecast of 1.618 percent in a Bloomberg News
survey of eight of the Federal Reserve’s 21 primary dealers.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
total bids with the amount of securities offered, was 2.38, the
lowest since July 2009 and compared with an average of 2.74 for
the past 10 sales. Benchmark 10-year yields climbed from the
lowest level in almost two weeks earlier before a government
report tomorrow forecast to show the economy grew more last
quarter than previously estimated, fueling speculation the Fed
may start to curtail monetary stimulus. Economists project 2.2
percent growth in gross domestic product in the second quarter,
according to a Bloomberg survey, following the government’s
earlier estimate of 1.7 percent.  About three shares fell for every one that gained in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, as the gauge retreated 0.4 percent for a
third straight loss. The volume of shares changing hands in
Stoxx 600 companies was 18 percent greater than the 30-day
average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Airlines Slide  Accor SA fell the most in more than 14 months after posting
first-half profit that missed analysts’ estimates.  Air France-KLM (AF)  Group and Deutsche Lufthansa AG paced a decline among
European travel and leisure companies. Bouygues SA jumped the
most in six months after reporting a 10 percent increase in
second-quarter profit.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index slipped 0.6 percent,
extending its two-day decline to 2.4 percent and reaching the
lowest level since July 8 on a closing basis. Global funds have
withdrawn about $44 billion from emerging-market stock and bond
funds since the end of May through last week, according to EPFR
Global, a Cambridge, Massachusetts-based data provider.  Dubai’s benchmark stock index, which has risen 55 percent
for the biggest gain among the 40 largest equity markets in 2013
even as violence in the region spread, slipped 1.3 percent today
to extend yesterday’s 7 percent plunge. Israel’s benchmark TA-25
Index rose 0.7 percent, erasing earlier losses after dipping to
the lowest level since September 2012.  Turkey ’s lira dropped as much as 1.7 percent to 2.0730 per
dollar, before paring declines and trading 0.3 percent lower.
The rupee slumped to as low as 68.8450 versus the dollar.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  