-- Baidu Said in Talks to Develop Smart Televisions
-- B y   L u l u   Y i l u n   C h e n
-- 2013-08-28T02:00:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/baidu-said-in-talks-to-develop-smart-tvs-to-challenge-alibaba.html
Baidu Inc. (BIDU) ,  China ’s largest search
engine, is in talks with a Chinese manufacturer to help develop
televisions connected to the Internet, according to two people
familiar with the matter.  The company is discussing working with Huan Technology Ltd.
to develop a set-top box or a chip for use in smart TVs, the
people said, asking to not be identified because the discussions
are private. Huan Technology is a joint venture between Sichuan
Changhong Electric Co. and  TCL Multimedia Technology Holdings. (1070) 
TCL is the third-largest flat-panel TV maker in the world by
revenue share, researcher DisplaySearch said in June.  Baidu is expanding its online video business to boost its
share of a market that consultant IResearch estimates may
generate 16.2 billion  yuan  ($2.6 billion) in revenue next year.
The U.S.-listed company is competing for users with Alibaba
Group Holding Ltd., China’s largest e-commerce company, which
said in July it had designed a smart TV operating system and
set-top box.  Baidu, based in Beijing, declined to comment in an e-mailed
statement. He Dan, a spokeswoman for Guangzhou-based Huan
Technology, declined to comment.  Shares of Baidu fell 2.8 percent to $135.12 in  New York 
trading yesterday. The stock has gained 35 percent this year,
compared with a 19 percent increase in the  Nasdaq Composite
Index. (CCMP)   The company last week agreed to buy a 59 percent stake in
e-commerce website operator Nuomi Holdings Inc. for about $160
million.  Baidu also bought Internet video business PPStream Inc. in
June for $370 million and has been combining it with IQiyi.com,
which it acquired last year, to create China’s largest online
video platform.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  