-- Bank of America Must Face Mortgage Fraud Trial: Judge
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-08-27T17:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/bank-of-america-must-face-mortgage-fraud-trial-judge.html
Bank of America Corp.  must face a
trial next month in a lawsuit alleging the bank’s Countrywide
unit defrauded  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  by selling them
billions of dollars in bad mortgages, a federal judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  Manhattan  issued a ruling
today rejecting the bank’s request to dismiss the case, putting
it on track for a trial scheduled to begin Sept. 23.  “The court concludes that there remain genuine factual
disputes that, on at least one or more of the government’s
theories, precludes the granting of summary judgment to any
defendant,” Rakoff said in a one-page order, saying he would
file a full opinion at a later date.  The U.S. sued Bank of America in October, intervening in a
whistle-blower action originally filed by a former Countrywide
executive, Edward O’Donnell. The U.S. claimed Bank of America
and Countrywide, which it acquired in 2008, sold thousands of
defective loans from 2007 to 2009 to the home-mortgage finance
companies.  The government alleged Countrywide engaged in a “host of
irresponsible origination practices that prioritize funding
speed and discourage scrutiny and quality into a singularly
risky loan manufacturing process that pumped out large
quantities of poor quality loans,” according to a memorandum
filed in July.  “This program ended before our purchase of Countrywide, as
the government acknowledges,” said Lawrence Grayson, a
spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America.
“We believe there was no fraud.”  The case is U.S. v. Countrywide Financial Corp., 12-cv-01422, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in federal court in New York at
   csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  