-- Barrack Says Bazin Will Push ‘Asset-Light’ Plan at Accor
-- B y   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   N a d j a   B r a n d t
-- 2013-08-27T22:29:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/barrack-says-bazin-will-push-asset-light-plan-at-accor.html
Colony Capital LLC founder and
Chairman  Tom Barrack  said Sebastien Bazin, who is stepping down
as Colony’s European investment chief to take the reins at  Accor
SA (AC) , was the best choice to revamp the French lodging company.  “The missing chip in Accor is moving it to an ‘asset-light’ model,” Barrack, whose  Santa Monica , California-based
firm first invested in the hotelier in 2005 and now owns 11
percent, said yesterday in a telephone interview. “Accor has
been lagging its  peer group  in share performance. Having
Sebastien focus on Accor full time is a good thing, because he
will definitely get the job done.”  Accor said yesterday that Bazin, 51, would take over as
chairman and chief executive officer of Europe’s biggest hotel
company as it focuses on reducing the proportion of properties
it owns. Current Chairman Philippe Citerne has been appointed
vice chairman and Yann Caillere, acting CEO since Paris-based
Accor fired Denis Hennequin in April, will leave the company.  Hennequin was forced out after clashing with the board over
the pace of the company’s plan to scale back real estate
holdings. Bazin had long pressed the board to sell real estate
and instead focus on managing and franchising properties, a
strategy adopted by  Marriott International Inc. (MAR)  and  Starwood
Hotels & Resorts Worldwide Inc. (HOT)  in the U.S. Such a plan would
help buoy the company’s share price and lower its  capital
expenditures , he has said.  Accor fell  1.5 percent  yesterday to 28.80 euros in Paris
trading. In the past two years, Accor rose 24 percent, compared
with gains of 56 percent for Bethesda, Maryland-based Marriott
and 53 percent for Starwood, based in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . The
Bloomberg Europe Travel & Leisure Index climbed 43 percent.  ‘Most Challenging’  According to Barrack, Bazin in recent years had spent much
of his time trying to turn around Colony’s investments in Accor
and  Carrefour SA (CA) , the world’s largest retailer after Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. At one point, Colony faced hundreds of millions of
dollars in paper losses on the $2.45 billion (1.83 billion
euros) it sank into the two.  “Those were our two most challenging investments in
 Europe ,” Barrack said. While the value of the Carrefour stake
is less than Colony’s cost, the retailer is “well on its way to
recovery.”  Accor, which is slightly profitable for Colony, remains a
work in progress, Barrack said. The board asked Bazin to take
charge after independent directors disagreed over other CEO
candidates, according to Barrack.  Franchise Agreements  Accor plans to operate 40 percent of its hotels under
franchise agreements, 40 percent under management contracts and
20 percent under ownership or leases by 2016, it said in
February. The company’s plan includes increasing its focus on
 emerging markets , reorganizing staff, selling some properties
and cutting costs.  Charlotte  Bourgeois-Cleary, an Accor spokeswoman in Paris,
didn’t return a phone message seeking comment after regular
business hours.  Bazin has been buying and selling real estate in Europe for
Barrack since 1997. Colony has been an investor in Accor since
2005 and a clash over governance between the two led to the 2009
resignation of then-chairman Serge Weinberg and five board
members. Colony and Eurazeo Capital together hold 21.4 percent
of Accor, Eurazeo said on its website.  The company last year  sold  its chain of more than 1,100
Motel 6 budget properties in  North America  to Blackstone Group
LP for $1.9 billion.  ‘Young Team’  Accor is scheduled to release earnings results today before
the market opens. In July, it said first-half revenue rose 1.8
percent from a year ago after it added 9,940 rooms. Most of the
new rooms are operated but not owned by the company.  Colony, which oversees about $27 billion in assets, also
said yesterday that Jean-Romain Lhomme and Nadra Moussalem,
principals who joined the firm in 2000 and who are both 39, will
succeed Bazin as co-heads of European operations.  The two will focus less on real estate investing than in
the past and more on corporate private-equity and distressed
investing, Barrack said. They will be deploying more than 2
billion euros Colony has earmarked for European deals over the
next 12 months and 4 billion euros in the next two years.  “They are a good, young team and they are ready to step
up,” Barrack said. “My view is that Europe is where the U.S.
was in 2008. We think the next 12 months will be the best
investment period we’ve seen in Europe since 1996.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  