-- Basci Comments Send Turkey Banks to 13-Month Low: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   T a y l a n   B i l g i c
-- 2013-08-27T15:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/basci-comments-send-turkey-banks-to-13-month-low-istanbul-mover.html
Turkey’s lenders slumped to lowest
level in more than a year as central bank Governor Erdem Basci
ruled out raising  interest rates  and the lira weakened past 2
per dollar for the first time.  The Borsa Istanbul  banking index  dropped 4.2 percent to
121,048.3 at the close in Istanbul, the lowest level since July
2012.  Akbank TAS (AKBNK) , the lender part-owned by Citigroup, Inc.,
retreated 4.9 percent and  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS (YKBNK)  declined 5.1
percent. The  benchmark  Borsa Istanbul 100 Index slid 4.7 percent
to the lowest level since August last year.  The central bank will be “on the offensive” against
currency weakness without using the “rates weapon,” Basci said
in a televised interview with the state-run Anatolia news
agency. The bank is planning to introduce new tools to fight
lira depreciation, he said, without elaborating. The currency
weakened as much as 2.1 percent to a record 2.0394 against the
dollar.  “I don’t think investors are convinced this is the time
for unorthodox central banking,” Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF
Global Trading U.K. Ltd. in London, said in e-mailed comments.
“The potential damage to growth prospects of an extended lira
decline is profoundly discomforting.”  Maturing Debt  Turkish companies had $165 billion of foreign debt maturing
within a year as of June, with banks accounting for $93 billion,
according to central bank data. The lira depreciated 12 percent
against the dollar this year, the second-worst performance among
 emerging markets  in  Europe , the  Middle East  and  Africa , after
South Africa’s rand. It slid 2.1 percent to 2.0377 a dollar at
5:44 p.m. in Istanbul.  The Ankara-based central bank raised its  overnight lending
rate  by 50 basis points to 7.75 percent on Aug. 20, leaving the
benchmark  one-week repo rate  at 4.5 percent. The decision came
amid capital outflows from emerging markets on concern that the
 Federal Reserve  will start paring monthly bond purchases of $85
billion as early as next month.  “The market probably has overreacted,” Hasan Demir, an
analyst at Tera Brokers in Istanbul, said in a phone interview.
“Considering where the multiples have retreated, we may have
reached attractive prices for banks.”  Turkish banks  trade  at 6.9 times estimated 12-month
earnings on average, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the lowest since January last year.  “Banks look cheap, but earnings estimates must be lowered
to account for higher rates, inevitable non-performing loan
formation and slower growth,” CF Global’s Rimmer said.
“Investors will wait and see how the unorthodox monetary policy
fares before committing capital to the sector.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Taylan Bilgic in Istanbul at 
 tbilgic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  