-- Bats CEO Sees Stock Data Value Rising From Merger
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-08-27T17:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/bats-ceo-sees-value-of-stock-data-rising-from-merger.html
Combining Bats Global Markets Inc.
with Direct Edge Holdings LLC should help the company compete
with larger exchange operators selling market data, Chief
Executive Officer Joe Ratterman said.  Bats, the Lenexa, Kansas-based electronic stock market
founded in 2005, said yesterday it agreed to merge with Direct
Edge in Jersey City, New Jersey, creating what today would be
the second-biggest U.S. equity exchange owner. Charging for data
is a new business for Bats and it may improve after the deal
with Direct Edge, which could double its share of stock
transactions, Ratterman said.  Exchange companies have sought new sales sources as profits
from trading shrunk because of falling volume and competition.
 Nasdaq  OMX Group Inc. bought electronic bond platform eSpeed in
July while NYSE Euronext is being taken over by futures exchange
operator  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  Bats and Direct Edge are
focused on equities and may wring more money from data,
Ratterman said in a phone interview yesterday.  “If you look in the area of market data, there’s products
we can offer when you cover a broader percentage of daily
activity that suddenly become interesting to your customers,”
said Ratterman. “And when your  larger competitors  have products
like that, now we can compete with them and bring even more
innovation and better pricing.”  Data Feeds  While the prospectus for Bats’s canceled initial public
offering last year showed $55.4 million of revenue from data in
2011, the money represented its portion of fees that all
exchanges divide for posting prices to national feeds. In
addition to its share of that pool, Nasdaq posted another $135
million that year for U.S. market data products, according to
its financial statements. That’s where Bats may compete more
closely after the merger is completed, said Ratterman.  “In our position today, customers wouldn’t find it
relevant, but put us together and they’ll find us just as, if
not more, relevant,” he said.  Markets run by  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and Nasdaq account for roughly
20 percent of average daily U.S. stock trading, according to
data on Bats’ website. The exchanges operated by Bats and Direct
Edge also post a total of about 20 percent.  Falling Volume  Direct Edge and Bats, the third- and fourth-largest equity
market owners, expect their merger will close in the first half
of 2014, according to a statement yesterday. Ratterman will keep
the CEO role, while Direct Edge CEO William O’Brien will be
president. Financial details weren’t disclosed.  Formed by traders and investment banks, the closely held
companies are merging amid a four-year decline in American
equity volume. Shares changing hands on U.S. exchanges fell 36
percent since 2009 to 6.3 billion shares a day in 2013 and
profits for high-frequency traders slipped 80 percent, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  “Volume is weak,”  Dan Veru , the chief investment officer
who helps oversee $4.5 billion at Palisade Capital Management
LLC, said by phone from Fort Lee, New Jersey. “That’s been the
trend going on for quite some time. So unless you have real
scale, it’s difficult to compete. Mergers like this probably
create some scale.”  The companies operate two exchanges each and all of them
will keep running, using Bats’s technology, according to the
statement. The combination will be headquartered near Kansas
City, Missouri.  Trading Errors  Electronic platforms have seen their reputations dim over
the last week after a connectivity issue caused Nasdaq to halt
trading in all its listed shares for three hours on Aug. 22 and
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. bombarded markets with mistaken options
orders on Aug. 20. Bats shut its main venue for almost an hour
on Aug. 6 when a computer system malfunctioned.  Bats, run with about 160 employees from a two-story office
complex, operates two stock exchanges and an options market in
the U.S. as well as Bats Chi-X Europe, the largest pan-European
stock exchange.  Both companies count trading firms and banks among their
owners, and Bats gained two new shareholders this month.
Private-equity firms Spectrum Equity Investors LP and TA
Associates Management LP bought all of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc.’s estate when it exited its investment, according to a
statement from Bats and the investors.  Bats lists Getco LLC as its largest owner with a 15.4
percent voting interest. Others are Morgan Stanley, Credit
Suisse Group AG, Nomura Holdings Inc. and Citigroup Inc. KCG
Holdings Inc., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Citadel all have a
19.9 percent stake in Direct Edge. An additional 8.8 percent
belongs to a group of five brokers, including New York-based
JPMorgan Chase & Co.  Four Streams  Stock exchanges make money in four ways, said Larry Tabb,
CEO of the Tabb Group, a market research firm: transactions,
listings, market data and technology. At the moment, Bats is
mostly generating income from transactions, he said.  “In Europe, they didn’t charge for data, but when they did
they talked about how they would offer it at a discount,” to
competitors, said Tabb in a phone interview. “I can imagine
they would do the same in the U.S.”  Ratterman said the company’s priority is to gain regulatory
clearance for the proposed deal, and to transfer the firm
entirely to Bats’s technology. Plans for growth, which may
include exchanges in other countries or asset classes such as
fixed income or foreign exchange, will come soon after, he said.  “We’re never going to let up in our push to be a more
relevant part of every market that we’re in,” Ratterman said.
“We’ll continue go after more of the share that’s available,
and we don’t ever plan on letting up on the gas pedal. Is there
room for us to grow? Absolutely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  