-- Berlusconi Reins in Allies as Italian Tax Deal Deadline Looms
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2013-08-27T10:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/berlusconi-reins-in-allies-as-italian-tax-deal-deadline-looms.html
Former Italian Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  imposed a media moratorium on his fractious allies as
the country’s leaders seek to tamp down divisions before a key
tax-policy deadline.  Berlusconi, 76, instructed his collaborators yesterday to
avoid public comments after reports that disagreements within
his People of Liberty party threatened to upend talks with Prime
Minister Enrico Letta on changes to a controversial property
tax. The fiscal debate, on the agenda of a cabinet meeting
tomorrow, is shaping up as a prelude to the fight over
Berlusconi’s political fate.  The friction within Letta’s four-month-old coalition has
exposed the country to turmoil in bond and equity markets.
Investors are concerned that even if Letta forges a tax
compromise, he will struggle to keep his government together
when the push to expel Berlusconi from parliament comes to a
head next month. An impeachment process for Berlusconi,
convicted of  tax fraud  by  Italy ’s top court, starts on Sept. 9.  “The real risk for government stability comes from the
justice side,” said Federico Santi, an analyst with Eurasia
Group. “If anything, the economic policy side has become
entangled with discussions over justice.”  The benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  fell 1.7 percent to 16,692.58
at 11:36 a.m. in Milan after sliding 2.1 percent yesterday. The
difference between yields on Italy’s 10-year debt and similar-maturity German bunds widened 5 basis points from yesterday’s
close to 253.1 basis points.  ‘Continuing Manipulation’  Berlusconi silenced his allies with an e-mailed statement
yesterday that accused the media of “continuing manipulation”
to foment dissent within People of Liberty, or PDL. That
followed an Aug. 25 interview in the la Repubblica newspaper,
which cited Daniela Santanche, a PDL lawmaker, as saying that
Berlusconi was determined to bring down the government.  The process to strip Berlusconi of his Senate seat begins
with a committee meeting in the upper house and may take weeks
or months before an eventual vote in the full chamber is called.
Letta’s  Democratic Party , the biggest force in the ruling
coalition, has said Berlusconi’s expulsion is required by an
anti-corruption law passed in December 2012. The PDL, the
second-biggest party, has disputed that reading.  Berlusconi, a billionaire three-time premier, lost his
final appeal of the tax-fraud conviction on Aug. 1. He is
unlikely to serve jail time and has denied wrongdoing.  Letta, 47, and Berlusconi have some common ground in the
debate on the property tax, which was imposed last year as an
emergency austerity measure. Both the Democratic Party and the
PDL have called for cuts to the levy. The Democratic Party wants
to ease the burden on less wealthy homeowners, while Berlusconi
has pushed for a full repeal on primary residences.  “There’s still some work to do” on the tax before
Wednesday, “but we can make it,” Deputy Prime Minister
 Angelino Alfano , who is also secretary of the PDL, said in a
Twitter post late yesterday.  Italian homeowners will be faced with a tax-bill of about
2.4 billion euros ($3.2 billion) if the government can’t reach a
deal by Aug. 31.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  