-- Bharti Airtel Africa Data Growth to Quicken on Smartphones
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-08-28T09:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/bharti-airtel-african-data-growth-to-accelerate-on-smartphones.html
Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI) , the Indian
wireless company with operations in 17 African countries, said
data usage on the continent will accelerate after more than
doubling in the year through June.  “We do not expect this rate of growth to show any
significant change in the short-to-medium term,” Andre Beyers,
chief marketing officer of Nairobi-based Airtel  Africa , said in
an Aug. 23 response to e-mailed questions. “If anything, with
the further increase in smartphone penetration, our continuous
expanding coverage and some more exciting products, this growth
rate might even further improve.”  Mobile-phone users  in urban Africa are turning to data
because of falling prices of Internet-enabled handsets,
according to research by McKinsey & Co. About 25 percent of
smartphone owners in Africa access the Internet daily and more
than half at least once a month, the company said.  “We have seen tremendous growth in most of our markets,
but the growth in markets such as Nigeria, Tanzania,  Uganda  and
 Burkina Faso  is really pleasing,” Beyers, 48, said. “Our
efforts to increase the access to and affordability of data is
showing good returns.”  Airtel’s African data-subscriber numbers jumped 65 percent
during the 12-month period to 15 million customers, Beyers said,
while data use advanced about 150 percent. Revenue from data
services made up more than 5 percent of the African unit’s total
sales for the first time, he said.  3G Deployment  As part of plans to meet growing demand for data services
among its customers, Airtel Africa has been deploying high-speed
Internet capacity known as 3G across its African network and so
far 14 out of the 17 nations have speeds of as much as 42
megabits per second, Beyers said.  Airtel Africa is the third-biggest operator in  Nigeria ,
Africa’s most populous country, with 21.6 million customers as
of June,  according  to the Nigerian Communications Commission.
That compares with 18.6 million in April 2012. The company is
the second-largest operator in  Kenya  behind Safaricom Ltd., a
unit of Newbury, England-based Vodafone Plc.  Bharti Airtel, which started operating in Africa in 2010,
made a net loss of $106 million on the continent in the three
months through June, compared with a loss of $124 million in the
same period a year earlier, the company said on July 31. Sales
declined for the second consecutive quarter. Airtel is planning
to reverse the trend by targeting a growing number of smartphone
users in Africa to boost revenue per user and reduce dependence
on traditional fixed-line services.  Bharti Airtel is  India ’s biggest mobile-phone company with
more than 269 million customers across 20 countries in Asia and
Africa, according to its  website . The company’s shares fell 1.9
percent to 288.30 rupees by 2:47 p.m. in  Mumbai , extending a
decline for the year to 8.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  