-- Birla Said Close to Acquiring Jaiprakash’s Gujarat Cement Unit
-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2013-08-27T09:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/birla-said-close-to-acquiring-jaiprakash-s-gujarat-cement-unit.html
Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s
 UltraTech Cement Ltd. (UTCEM)  is close to buying  Jaiprakash Associates (JPA) 
Ltd.’s Gujarat cement unit for about 37 billion rupees ($564
million), two people with knowledge of the matter said.  A deal may be announced as early as next week, one of the
people said, asking not to be identified because the process is
confidential. Completing the transaction may take about six
months, the person said.  The sale may help Jaiprakash, developer of  India ’s only
Formula One track, cut debt that Chairman Manoj Gaur accumulated
to expand the company’s power, sports and construction
businesses. Gaur is selling assets to cut costs and reverse a
two-year decline in profit, as a cash crunch prompts lenders to
raise  interest rates  for the first time since 2011.  Askari H Zaidi, a spokesman for Jaiprakash, didn’t respond
to an e-mail and a call seeking comment. Pragnya Ram, a
spokeswoman of the Birla group based in Mumbai declined to
comment.  The companies have been in discussions for the 4.8 million
ton unit for more than a year, according to people with
knowledge of the matter. UltraTech had offered about 43 billion
rupees for the Gujarat unit, two people familiar with the
process said in November. The valuation has since fallen because
of concerns about production at one of Jakprakash’s mines, the
people said.  Jaypee Group is seeking to reduce  debt  by 150 billion
rupees by selling its cement plants in southern and western
India, some of its power generation units and property, Suren Jain, managing director at  Jaiprakash Power Ventures Ltd. (JPVL) , said
in an interview this month.  Ultratech is in the process of increasing its capacity by
another 10 million tons by 2015 to increase its total capacity
to 64.45 million tons, according to a July 29 release.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  