-- Bitcoin Meeting, OTC Derivatives, Trump U: Compliance
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n   a n d   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-08-27T12:31:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/bitcoin-meeting-otc-derivatives-trump-u-compliance.html
A Bitcoin trade group met yesterday
with the U.S. Treasury Department’s Financial Crimes Enforcement
Network and an array of law-enforcement officials and regulators
to discuss oversight of the digital currency.  Members of the Bitcoin Foundation will brief
representatives of federal agencies including the FBI, IRS,
Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency,
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Secret Service on the nature
of the virtual currency, created four years ago.  “It’s a kickoff of engagement,” said Peter Vessenes,
chairman of the foundation’s board, who said yesterday that the
meeting will be “standing-room only,” because of the high
interest among government officials. “Right now, law
enforcement would read a salacious story, and not know what’s
going on. We can help them understand what’s going on.”  It will be a “routine” meeting, said Stephen Hudak, a
spokesman for FinCEN, which released guidance in March saying
digital-currency administrators and exchangers are considered
money-services business subject to regulations and anti-money-laundering controls.  Bitcoin Foundation, a Seattle-based group that promotes the
currency, seeks to improve standardization and security for the
“non-political online money,” according to its  website .
Vessenes described the meeting as an “educational meet-and-greet.”  The group is “coming in to talk to regulators, law
enforcement and Treasury officials this afternoon as part of our
ongoing dialogue with virtual currency providers,” said John
Sullivan, a Treasury Department spokesman, in a telephone
interview.  New York’s top banking regulator,  Benjamin Lawsky , sent
subpoenas to 22 digital-currency companies, including BitInstant
LLC and Dwolla Corp., to determine whether new regulations
should be adopted to govern the emerging industry, according to
a person familiar with the matter.  Compliance Policy  OTC Derivatives Rules’ Benefits Outweigh Costs, Basel Group Says  Tougher rules for trading in over-the-counter derivatives
will deliver economic benefits that outweigh the costs they
impose on banks, a study found.  A group of supervisors and central bankers set up by the
 Bank for International Settlements  estimated that when
regulators have stricter standards in place, they will boost
global economic output by 0.12 percent per year and the
potential for financial crises will be reduced.  Regulators and banks should try to have the largest number
of derivatives trades as possible pass though clearinghouses,
the group said in a statement yesterday. The market for OTC
derivatives, which are traded away from exchanges and other
regulated venues, should be based around a “modest number” of
clearinghouses, the Basel, Switzerland-based group said.  Nations are trying to bolster and align their rules for the
 $633 trillion  market for swaps and other OTC derivatives, which
became a target for reinforced oversight after the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and the rescue of  American
International Group Inc. (AIG) , two of the largest traders in credit-default swaps. Global regulatory plans include boosting the use
of clearinghouses, pushing activity onto regulated markets and
requiring banks to put up more collateral against their trades.  Sweden May Raise Bank Capital Rules Further, Norman Says  Swedish banks , already subject to some of the world’s
toughest capital rules, may face even higher requirements as the
government tries to protect the economy and public finances from
future crises.  Financial Markets Minister Peter Norman yesterday proposed
a raft of measures aimed at strengthening bank industry
stability in the largest Nordic economy. Steps include giving
the Financial Supervisory Authority more tools and putting the
regulator in charge of oversight, according to an e-mailed
statement.  “In addition to these measures to form a stricter
framework and tougher rules for the banks, the development and
the risks that are tied to it means it may be necessary to
sharpen the requirements on the financial sector further in the
future,” Norman wrote in an opinion piece in Dagens Nyheter
newspaper yesterday. “That could, for example, include higher
capital rules for banks.”  Sweden ’s four biggest banks already face stricter capital
requirements than standards targeted elsewhere.  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ,
 Swedbank AB (SWEDA) , Svenska Handelsbanken AB and SEB AB must hold at
least 10 percent core Tier 1 capital of their risk-weighted
assets this year, and no less than 12 percent by 2015. The Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision, headed by Swedish central bank
Governor Stefan Ingves, sets a 7 percent minimum from 2019.  The central bank and the financial regulator have clashed
openly over which body should have the main responsibility for
limiting systemic risk in Sweden. The proposal from the
government marks a defeat for Ingves, who had argued that the
central bank is best suited to handle macro-prudential
supervision.  Basel Can’t Match Markets in Assessing Bond Risk, Denmark Says  Denmark ’s new minister in charge of bank legislation says
the market should be left to itself to decide the fate of one-year mortgage bonds under threat from the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision.  The bonds are at the center of a debate in Denmark on how
to treat one of the most popular home-loan products in the
nation’s $500 billion mortgage bond market, the world’s biggest
per capita. The central bank and rating companies have
criticized the bonds, which are used to finance mortgages as
long as 30 years, arguing the funding mismatch is too risky. The
model is also at odds with Basel’s proposed stable funding
requirement, under which banks need to be able to survive at
least 12 months without tapping markets.  “I’m not going to speculate on how the bond market will
look in a few years, but it will be, as it is today, the market
that decides,” Henrik Sass Larsen, who took over as business
minister this month, said in an e-mail yesterday.  Denmark’s mortgage banks, which collectively fought to
prevent Basel’s liquidity coverage ratio from destroying their
home-loan model, are now split over how to tackle the new
funding rules. The nation’s committee on too-big-to-fail banks
has also singled out one-year mortgage bonds as a risk. Danske
Bank A/S has said clear rules from regulators may be necessary
as competitive pressures prevent the industry from taking the
necessary steps on its own initiative.  European Union’s Banker Pay Rules Face Regulator Criticism  European Union banker pay rules were criticized by
officials in several countries on concerns they will drive up
fixed salaries and complicate internal operations at banks.  The Financial Stability Board said authorities in some non-European nations had warned that the rules, which will ban
bonuses more than twice as large as fixed pay, “may have
unintended consequences” and raised “level playing field”
issues. The FSB didn’t identify the nations.  The board, which brings together central bankers,
regulators and finance ministry officials from the Group of 20
nations, called on supervisors and banks to accelerate efforts
to apply internationally agreed-to pay standards. These include
a requirement that awards can be retroactively canceled, and
recovered, if a bank’s finances are less healthy than previously
stated.  The EU earlier this year overrode opposition from the U.K.
to bolster its bonus rules, already among the toughest in the
world. The ban on awards worth more than twice fixed pay will
apply for the first time to bonuses awarded in 2015.  Europe’s Single Bank Rule Book Falls Apart as North Races Ahead  The goal of a single rule book for Europe’s banks is
splintering even before it’s implemented as northern countries
move ahead with tougher requirements to ward off the next boom-to-bust cycle.  Sweden’s too-big-to-fail  banks , which already face stricter
capital rules than their competitors elsewhere, may be told to
hold even larger reserves, Financial Markets Minister Peter
Norman said yesterday. In Denmark, Business Minister Henrik Sass
Larsen said he can’t wait for southern Europe to regulate its
systemically important financial institutions. He backs the
swift passage of national capital laws to curb bank risks.  As Europe struggles to stimulate growth without stoking a
new credit bubble, the specter of swelling private debt is
prompting regulators from Sweden to the Netherlands to curb
borrowing. The measures go beyond new capital rules approved
earlier this year by the European Union and set to become law by
Jan. 1.  In addition to steps advanced by Sweden and Denmark, the
Netherlands proposed last week that its banks face a leverage
ratio -- a measure of capital against total assets -- of at
least 4 percent. The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
recommends a 3 percent threshold. Dutch Finance Minister Jeroen
Dijsselbloem, who leads the group of 17 euro finance chiefs,
recommended governments be allowed to impose tougher ratios
unilaterally if a common framework can’t be agreed upon.  According to Larsen, countries can’t risk holding
themselves and their financial systems’ integrity hostage to
developments in regions still struggling under a sovereign debt
crisis. Recommendations by a Danish government-backed Sifi
committee for as much as 5 percent additional capital “are
balanced,” he said. Europe has yet to complete its too-big-to-fail bank proposal.  The rift over bank regulation mirrors a similar division
among central bankers after the euro area surfaced from its
longest recession on record.  Compliance Action  Former JPMorgan Trader Martin-Artajo Arrested in Madrid  Former  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  trader Javier Martin-Artajo was
arrested in  Madrid  as part of a probe into last year’s $6.2
billion trading loss.  He turned himself in this morning after being contacted by
investigators, a Spanish police official said today. Police have
passed his case to the National Court in Madrid.  “The arrested person is presumed responsible for
manipulating and inflating the value of positions in the
synthetic credit portfolio of his firm with the aim of achieving
specific objectives of daily losses and gains,” police said in
a statement.  The U.S. earlier this month charged Martin-Artajo, a
Spanish citizen, and Julien Grout, a French citizen, with trying
to hide losses that ultimately cost JPMorgan more than $6.2
billion last year. Both men face as long as 20 years in prison
if convicted of the most serious counts, including conspiracy
and wire fraud.  Martin-Artajo’s lawyer, Lista Cannon, didn’t immediately
respond to a telephone call seeking comment.  Jennifer
Zuccarelli , a spokeswoman for New York-based JPMorgan declined
to comment.  Rheinmetall, Atlas Raided in Germany in Submarine Bribe Probe  Rheinmetall AG (RHM)  and Atlas Elektronik GmbH, a unit jointly
owned by  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  and European Aeronautic Defence and
Space Co., were raided as part of a German probe into
allegations of bribery by employees.  The suspects are being investigated over payments to Greek
officials from 1998 to 2011 to win contracts for submarine
equipment, Frank Passade, a spokesman for the prosecutors’
office in Bremen,  Germany , said in an interview yesterday.
Atlas, a naval electronics manufacturer, allegedly paid 8.5
million euros ($11.4 million) in bribes and Dusseldorf-based
Rheinmetall, an armored vehicle maker, paid 9.1 million euros,
Passade said.  “Atlas informed us in 2010 about the matter, but at the
time the facts indicated that we didn’t have jurisdiction since
everything happened abroad,” Passade said. “Tax investigators
inspecting Rheinmetall’s books last year brought new aspects to
light prompting us to open a probe.”  The companies confirmed the raids. Oliver Hoffmann, a
spokesman for Rheinmetall, said the allegations are baseless.
Atlas, based in Bremen, is cooperating with the probe, said
Steffen Leuthold, a spokesman for the company.  UBS to Pay $4.6 Million to Settle Over Unregistered Assistants  UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank, will pay $4.58 million
to settle an investigation by regulators into whether its sales
assistants were licensed in states where they did business.  UBS’s “client service associates” took orders without
having the required state registrations, according to a
statement yesterday by the New Jersey Bureau of Securities,
which said it led the case. The Zurich-based bank didn’t admit
or deny the allegations.  “Over a six-year period, UBS failed to recognize a flaw
in its order entry systems that allowed unregistered persons to
accept customer orders,” Abbe R. Tiger, the New Jersey agency’s
chief, said in the statement.  UBS’s sales assistants also weren’t adequately supervised,
New Jersey regulators said. Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill
Lynch brokerage settled a similar state investigation in 2009.  “UBS is pleased to have resolved this legacy registration
issue which involved unsolicited orders,” Gregg Rosenberg, a
UBS spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement.  Courts  Christanto Cooperating With Australia in Banknotes Bribery Case  Radius Christanto, an Indonesian businessman accused of
conspiracy to bribe foreign officials, is cooperating with
Australian authorities and may be a witness for them, his lawyer
said.  “He’s an extremely valuable witness or a star witness,”
Christanto’s lawyer Hamidul Haq told a Singapore subordinate
court today that agreed the Indonesian, who isn’t challenging
his extradition to Australia, be surrendered.  At least nine former managers and employees at Note
Printing Australia Ltd, the money-printing unit of the country’s
central bank, and Securency International Pty, the unit it
formerly part owned, were charged in relation to the bribing of
officials in Malaysia, Indonesia, Nepal and Vietnam from 1999 to
2004 to win banknote printing contracts.  Australian authorities have acknowledged that statements
Christanto gave them have been very helpful, Haq told the
Singapore court today. Christanto, 64, has lived in Singapore
since 1989.  The Singapore case is Public Prosecutor v Christanto Radius
W/APP 5/2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  Trump’s Institute Accused of Fraud by N.Y. Attorney General  Donald Trump was sued by New York Attorney General Eric
Schneiderman over claims the billionaire operated a fraudulent
online educational institute that swindled students out of $40
million.  Trump University, now known as the Trump Entrepreneur
Initiative, operated as an unlicensed educational institution
and misled students with promises that they would gain real
estate investing expertise, according a copy of the petition
provided by Schneiderman’s office. The Aug. 24 filing wasn’t
immediately available from New York Supreme Court in  Manhattan .  Students paid as much as $35,000 for the institute’s
programs, purportedly taught by experts “handpicked” by Trump,
according to the petition. After being told that they would
recoup the cost of the programs within a few months, many
students were unable to conclude even one real estate deal.  “Mr. Trump used his celebrity status and personally
appeared in commercials making false promises to convince people
to spend tens of thousands of dollars they couldn’t afford for
lessons they never got,” Schneiderman said in an Aug. 25
statement.  Trump, the New York-based Trump Organization Inc. and a
former president of the institute are accused of running an
unlicensed educational institution from 2005 through 2011. More
than 5,000 students, including 600 in New York, paid for the
educational programs, according to petition.  Amanda Miller, a Trump Organization spokeswoman, referred
questions to www.98percentapproval.com, a website devoted to
criticism of the attorney general.  The case is Schneiderman v. The Trump Entrepreneur
Initiative LLC, 400965-2012, Supreme Court of the State of New
York, County of New York (Manhattan).  Bo Remains Defiant at Trial End as China Heralds Graft Crackdown  Ousted Politburo member Bo Xilai remained defiant as his
corruption trial ended with prosecutors calling for a severe
punishment, in a case the Communist Party called proof of its
determination to target high-level graft.  Bo accused his former police chief, who testified at the
trial in the eastern Chinese city of Jinan, of being in love
with his wife as he again asserted his innocence of the bribery,
embezzlement and power-abuse charges against him. The bribery
claim was something “even the lousiest TV drama scriptwriter
wouldn’t create,” he said.  Bo’s rebuttals concluded a five-day trial, in which the
court posted transcripts online, an unprecedented move that
state media called evidence of the proceedings’ transparency.  Bo, a former commerce minister, governor and mayor, was
accused of taking more than 21 million  yuan  ($3.4 million),
embezzling 5 million yuan and covering up his wife Gu Kalai’s
role in the murder of British businessman Neil Heywood. Once a
rising political star, Bo’s downfall in March last year posed
the biggest crisis to the Communist Party since the 1989
Tiananmen Square protests.  Bo insisted during his trial that while he made mistakes in
his career, he didn’t commit any crimes, according to
transcripts released by the court in Jinan.  He sought to discredit those who testified against him,
calling his wife crazy, comparing a former businessman in Dalian
to a wild biting dog and saying his former police chief in the
city of Chongqing, Wang Lijun, had lied.  Prosecutors said the facts are clear and the evidence is
sufficient that Bo is guilty of all charges, according to a
posting on the court’s microblog.  The official Xinhua News Agency said the verdict would be
announced at a date still to be decided.  Three Men Charged With Stealing Flow Traders Trading Software  Two men who were employed by  Flow Traders  were charged in
New York with stealing the firm’s electronic trading software by
e-mailing it to themselves from their work accounts.  Glen Cressman, a trader at the New York office of the
Amsterdam-based company, sent e-mails to himself in December
2012 with trading strategies and valuation algorithms, according
to the complaint in state Supreme Court in Manhattan. He is
charged with two counts each of unlawful duplication of computer
related material and unauthorized use of secret scientific
material, according to copies of a complaint brought by the
Manhattan District Attorney’s office.  Jason Vuu, a Flow Traders employee until his resignation in
March, was charged with 20 counts of the same offenses. His e-mails were sent from August 2011 to August 2012, and he
sometimes changed the file format of the attachments to make it
difficult to recognize their contents, according to the
complaint.  Vuu is accused by prosecutors of sharing the software code
with Simon Lu, who wasn’t a Flow Traders employee, to create
their own trading company. Lu is charged with three counts each
of unlawful duplication of computer related material and
unauthorized use of secret scientific material.  “I’m confident that when the DA’s office has completed
their investigation they will find Flow Traders did not suffer
any economic loss,” Jeremy Saland, a lawyer for Vuu, said in an
Aug. 25 e-mail. “Their algorithms and code weren’t taken or
used in any malicious way that damaged or compromised their
financial security.”  Charles Ross, a lawyer for Cressman, Paul Shechtman, a
lawyer for Lu, and Joseph DeMarco, a lawyer for Flow Traders,
didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages.  Sierra Leonean to Face Florida Charges in Iran Uranium Sting  A Sierra Leonean arrested at New York’s John F. Kennedy
International Airport in an undercover probe of illegal uranium
sales will be taken to Florida to face charges, according to
court documents.  Patrick Campbell, 33, who appeared before U.S. Magistrate
Judge Vera M. Scanlon Aug. 22 in Brooklyn, New York, consented
to the transfer, according to court records made public the
following day.  Campbell was arrested on Aug. 21 at the airport on his way
to Miami to meet with an undercover agent posing as a dealer
planning to send the uranium to Iran, the government said in a
criminal complaint.  He admitted he had a plan for selling uranium and showed
the agents samples of raw uranium ore he had concealed in his
luggage, the government alleged.  Campbell also had a thumb drive containing a contract for
sale and delivery of uranium 308 and a PowerPoint presentation
about the product he had discussed with the undercover agent,
the government claimed. Uranium 308 is also known as
“yellowcake” uranium and can be used in nuclear fuel or
nuclear weapons when further processed, according to the
complaint.  Robert Nardoza , a spokesman for Brooklyn U.S. Attorney
Loretta Lynch, declined to comment on the case. A lawyer for
Campbell, Chase Scolnick, also declined to comment.  The case is U.S. v. Campbell, 1:13-mj-00733, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of New York (Brooklyn).  Interviews  Levitt Says High Frequency Trades Blameless At Nasdaq  Arthur Levitt, former chairman of the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission, says high frequency trading “had nothing”
to do with last week’s Nasdaq “breakdown.” Levitt talks with
Bloomberg’s  Tom Keene  on Bloomberg Radio’s “ Bloomberg
Surveillance .”  To listen to the interview, click here.  Comings and Goings  Greenwich Hires BlackRock’s McPartland for Market Structure  Greenwich Associates has hired Kevin McPartland, formerly a
director at  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , as a principal in its market
structure and technology advisory service.  McPartland, 35, will research derivatives and the financial
technology sector and how regulatory changes around the globe
are affecting those industries, he said in a telephone interview
last week. Previously a senior analyst in New York at
consultancy Tabb Group, McPartland said he wanted to get back to
analyzing the challenges Wall Street faces.  Firms from the world’s largest banks to small hedge funds
and institutional money managers are relying more on
consultancies and researchers such as Greenwich and Tabb to
understand the effect of regulatory change in the U.S. and
Europe as markets face new rules following the worst financial
crisis since the Great Depression.  The Dodd-Frank Act, signed into law by President  Barack
Obama  in July 2010, expanded the Federal Reserve’s power to
oversee the largest financial institutions and gave regulators
new tools aimed at preventing a repeat of the 2007-2009
financial crisis. It imposed new rules on derivatives, for
mortgages and limits the ability of banks to trade on their own
account.  Obama met with Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and
other financial regulators Aug. 19 to urge quicker progress on
implementing Dodd-Frank. The closed-door meeting at the White
House also included Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and Gary
Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net ;
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  