-- BMO, Scotiabank Beat Estimates on Increased Lending
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-08-27T20:17:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/bmo-scotiabank-beat-estimates-on-increased-lending.html
Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  and  Bank of
Montreal ,  Canada ’s first two lenders to report third-quarter
results, beat analysts’ estimates after posting profit fueled by
record results in Canadian banking.  Scotiabank said today that net income for the period ended
July 31 fell 14 percent to C$1.77 billion ($1.68 billion), or
C$1.37 a share, from C$2.05 billion, or C$1.69, a year earlier
when the company had a C$614 million one-time gain from selling
its Scotia Plaza building in Toronto. Bank of Montreal’s profit
rose 17 percent to a record C$1.14 billion, or C$1.68 a share,
from a year earlier, the Toronto-based firm said in a statement.  Both banks produced profit bolstered by record consumer
lending and wealth-management gains. Scotiabank’s Canadian
consumer-lending business was aided by its C$3.1 billion
takeover of ING Groep NV’s Canadian business in November, which
added about 1.8 million customers. The lenders also set aside
less money for bad loans.  “It’s a steady-as-she-goes quarter,” Bob Decker, a fund
manager with Aurion Capital Management in Toronto, which manages
about C$6 billion including bank shares. “It’s a Goldilocks
environment for bankers when loan-loss provisions are
sustainably low like this and they can focus on costs and
delivering services.”  Credit Provisions  Scotiabank, Canada’s third-largest lender by assets, set
aside C$314 million for bad loans, down from C$402 million a
year earlier.  Bank of Montreal (BMO) , the fourth-largest lender,
reserved C$77 million in credit provisions, down from C$237
million a year ago.  “Our customers in Canada are behaving as expected,”
Scotiabank Chief Executive Officer Richard Waugh, 65, said in a
conference call after earnings were released. “Growth is
moderating and all credit metrics -- delinquency, formations and
loan losses -- are essentially flat to down.”  Scotiabank  fell  1.7 percent to C$57.71 at 4 p.m. in
Toronto, while Bank of Montreal  rose  0.4 percent to C$66.05. The
shares have climbed 0.4 percent and 8.5 percent this year,
respectively, compared with the 4.5 percent  advance  of the
eight-company Standard & Poor’s/TSX Commercial Banks Index.  Excluding some items, Scotiabank’s profit was C$1.32 a
share, the Toronto-based lender said in a statement, beating the
C$1.31  average estimate  of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.
Revenue was little changed at C$5.52 billion. The company raised
its quarterly  dividend  3.3 percent to 62 cents a share.  ING Acquisition  Profit from Scotiabank’s Canadian consumer-lending business
rose 13 percent to a record C$590 million, lifted by its ING
acquisition, while earnings from international banking climbed
12 percent to C$494 million, the lender said.  Wealth-management and insurance profit rose 15 percent to
C$327 million, while earnings from its global banking and
markets business slipped 3 percent to C$386 million.  Despite moderating growth rates in  emerging markets ,
Scotiabank expects to achieve above average and increasing
growth for next year, including in the Caribbean, Waugh said on
the call. Scotiabank will meet or exceed its 2013 financial
targets, he said.  “It was a decent quarter with little noise that was helped
by a decline in loan losses,”  Robert Sedran , an analyst with
Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, said in a note. “That said,
the slowing growth in the international segment is notable.”  Bank of Montreal  Bank of Montreal said its adjusted earnings, which exclude
some items, were C$1.68 a share, beating the C$1.53 average
 estimate  of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank posted
growth across all its major businesses, including record profit
in Canadian personal and commercial banking and wealth
management.  “We’re very happy with the quarter,” CEO William Downe,
61, said in a telephone interview. “We characterize it as good
earnings, and each of the individual businesses contributed.”  Bank of Montreal’s Canadian consumer-banking profit rose
8.3 percent to C$497 million on higher balances and fees, 10
percent loan growth and lower provisions for credit losses, the
company said.  Profit from its Chicago-based BMO Harris Bank rose 10
percent to C$153 million on lower provisions and cost-cutting.
The bank has increased earnings from its U.S. unit since
doubling deposits and branches with the July 2011 acquisition of
Wisconsin-based Marshall & Ilsley Corp. The C$4.1 billion
takeover was Bank of Montreal’s largest in its 195-year history.  ‘Reasonable Result’  “This is a reasonable result from BMO, with the solid
trends in credit quality and personal and commercial Canada
offsetting the sluggishness in the U.S. top-line,” Sumit Malhotra, an analyst with Macquarie Capital Markets in Toronto,
said in a note.  Profit at the firm’s private-client group, which includes
insurance and mutual funds, doubled to C$218 million from a year
earlier on an increase in assets under management.  The BMO Capital Markets investment-banking unit profit rose
12 percent to C$280 million, with increases in trading and fees
from advising on stock sales.  National Bank of Canada (NA)  reports  results  tomorrow, followed
by CIBC and Toronto-Dominion Bank on Aug. 29. The country’s six
biggest banks are expected to post average per-share profit
growth of 3.3 percent excluding some items, according to CIBC’s
Sedran.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  