-- Brown Seeks $315 Million More to House California Inmates
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-08-27T21:48:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/brown-seeks-315-million-more-to-house-california-inmates-1-.html
California Governor  Jerry Brown 
proposed to spend $315 million from state reserves this year to
meet a federal court order to reduce overcrowding in the state’s
prisons.  The state would lease a private prison in the  Mojave Desert 
owned by  Corrections Corp. of America  and pay for more private
beds in other states and in local county jails, Brown told
reporters. The spending would wipe out almost a third of the $1
billion reserve he and fellow Democrats built into the $96.3
billion budget they passed in June.  “In the short term, this meets the court order,” said
Brown, a 75-year-old Democrat. “This is the sensible, prudent
course.”  The announcement came three weeks after the U.S. Supreme
Court rejected Brown’s bid to delay a lower court’s order to
reduce  California ’s prison population to 137.5 percent of design
capacity by Dec. 31. Without additional space, Brown had said
the state would be forced to release almost 10,000 inmates.  Federal judges seized control of the state’s prison health
system in 2006, saying inmate care was so bad it amounted to
cruel and usual punishment and violated the Constitution. The
judges cited cramped conditions where inmates were lodged in
gyms and dayrooms because there weren’t enough cells.  California has lowered the count by 43,000 since 2006 and
spent $1 billion on improving care and conditions, according to
the governor’s office.  Prisons take the fourth-biggest bite of California’s
budget, at $11.2 billion this fiscal year, behind schools and
colleges, health and welfare, and transportation, according to
the  Finance Department .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  