-- California Senate Bill Allows Nurses to Perform Abortions
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2013-08-27T07:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/california-senate-bill-allows-nurses-to-perform-abortions.html
California’s Senate gave final
approval to a bill allowing nurse-midwives and others perform
some types of abortions now done only by doctors.  The measure by Assembly Majority Leader Toni Atkins, a San
Diego Democrat, passed the Senate 25-11 yesterday. The bill goes
back to the Assembly, which passed it in May, to ratify
amendments before it’s sent to Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat.  If signed, California’s bill would allow abortions by
midwives, physician assistants and nurse practitioners in the
first 12 weeks of pregnancy. Four other states permit non-physician abortions:  Montana , New Hampshire,  Oregon  and  Vermont ,
according to a  University of California , San Francisco, study.
Thirty-nine states require a licensed physician.  “All women should have timely access to reproductive
health care regardless of whether they live in urban or rural
areas and without excessive expense or travel,” Atkins said
yesterday in a statement. The bill “will help fill the gap
created by the fact that over half of California’s counties lack
an abortion provider.”  The California measure bucks a national trend as states
such as Texas and  North Carolina  have passed restrictions on
abortion providers. While the U.S. Supreme Court’s 1973 decision
in Roe v. Wade struck down many state laws restricting abortion,
statutes vary across the U.S. A flurry of new restrictions have
been added in the past three years.  States Opposed  In Kansas, Governor  Sam Brownback , a Republican, signed
legislation April 19 that bans abortions on the basis of fetal
gender, declares that life begins at fertilization and prohibits
public funding for abortions.  North Dakota Governor Jack Dalrymple, a Republican, signed
a law in March making it a felony for a doctor to perform a
nonemergency abortion once a fetal heartbeat can be detected, as
early as six weeks into a pregnancy, with no exceptions for
victims of rape or incest.  North Carolina’s Republican governor, Pat McCrory, signed a
law passed in July to make clinics meet structural requirements
similar to those for outpatient surgical centers. Republicans
said the measure would make clinics safer while opponents said
it was an effort to deny access.  Texas Republican Governor  Rick Perry  signed a law last
month that bans abortions after 20 weeks of pregnancy and
requires the state’s 42 abortion clinics to meet standards
similar to those for outpatient surgical centers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  