-- California Assembly Passes Bill on Biosimilar Drug Use
-- B y   M a r k   M e l n i c o e
-- 2013-08-27T07:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/california-assembly-passes-bill-on-biosimilar-drug-use.html
Pharmaceutical makers won approval
from the  California  Assembly to restrict generic versions of
drugs isolated from natural sources, such as vaccines, known as
biosimilars, once they become available in the U.S.  The  bill  passed yesterday would require pharmacies to
notify doctors and sometimes patients when a cheaper biosimilar
drug is substituted for a brand-name medicine. It also would
forbid a pharmacist from substituting the biosimilar drug if the
physician says no.  Biosimilars are generic versions of drugs derived from
living cells, known as biologics, for chronic diseases and
conditions including cancer, heart disease and diabetes.
Drugmakers such as Thousand Oaks, California-based  Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,
which holds patents on biologics, want to limit the use of
biosimilars. Global sales of biologics jumped 69 percent in five
years to $157 billion in 2011, according to IMS Health, a
health-care data provider based in Danbury,  Connecticut .  “California should not jump the gun when the  federal
government  has a process under way to sort out the benefits and
risks of some of the costliest pharmaceuticals coming on the
market,” Patrick Johnston, president of the California
Association of Health Plans, said in an interview, referring to
the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. “The FDA should finish
its process and determine which drugs are suitable for
substitution before California enacts any new laws.”  The bill, which passed 58-4, returns to the state Senate,
where it was approved May 2, to reconcile changes made in the
Assembly. Governor Jerry Brown, a Democrat, hasn’t said whether
he’ll sign the bill.  No Notice  Under current state law, a pharmacist can substitute
generic drugs without notifying the prescriber. While no
biosimilars have been approved by the FDA, they are allowed in
Europe.  Geoffrey Eich, executive director for research and
development policy at Amgen, said the company is investing in
six biosimilars in addition to the biologics it manufactures.  “We’ll benefit from the confidence patients will have in
biosimilars,” he said in an interview.  More complex than small-molecule chemical drugs,
biologicals include blood and blood components, gene therapies,
tissues and proteins. Some are nearing the end of their patented
status, paving the way for the advent of their biosimilar twins.  The California Public Employees’ Retirement System, the
biggest public pension and the nation’s second-largest purchaser
of health insurance, voted Aug. 21 to oppose the bill in its
current form.  Calpers’s objections to limiting the generics centered on
costs. Biosimilars are projected to save tens of billions of
dollars in health care over the next decade.  ‘Unnecessary’ Limits  “The bill imposes unnecessary physician notification
requirements on pharmacists that could potentially reduce the
number of prescriptions substituted with biosimilars,” a
Calpers lobbyist, Danny Brown, wrote in an Aug. 21 letter to
state Senator Jerry Hill, a Democrat from San Mateo who is the
measure’s sponsor.  In testimony to the Calpers board the same day, Mandy Lee,
a lobbyist for the California Retailers Association, said the
biosimilars bill “is designed to derail the market entry of
less-costly, more-affordable lifesaving products.”  Ten states have rejected legislation this year that would
have regulated biosimilars. Four others approved such measures,
though three put sunset clauses on the notification requirement,
meaning the restriction will die after a certain number of
years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Melnicoe in Sacramento at 
 mmelnicoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  