-- Canadian Currency Rises From Almost Seven-Week Low as Oil Surges
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-08-27T21:24:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/canada-dollar-falls-second-day-as-investors-seek-safety-on-syria.html
Canada ’s dollar advanced from almost
a seven-week low after crude oil, the nation’s biggest export,
climbed to the highest level since July on speculation tension
in  Syria  will disrupt Middle East supplies.  The currency, called the loonie, slid earlier as the haven
appeal of U.S. assets rose while the Obama administration
weighed retaliatory action against the Syrian government for
what officials said was a chemical-weapons attack. The loonie
sank last week amid lower-than-forecast economic data and bets
the U.S. Federal Reserve will begin slowing monetary stimulus.
 Yields (GCAN10YR)  on Canadian 10-year bonds fell today the most in a year.  “It’s been sort of a correlation with oil, but if we look
at the past couple of days, it’s still within a pretty tight
range,” Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc’s RBS Securities unit in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “It’s still biased
toward a bit more Canadian-dollar weakness in the near term.”  The loonie, nicknamed for the image of the aquatic bird on
the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.3 percent to C$1.0474 per  U.S.
dollar  at 5 p.m. in Toronto after touching 1.0472, the strongest
since Aug. 22. It lost as much as 0.4 percent earlier to
C$1.0540 after touching C$1.0568 on Aug. 23, the weakest since
July 9. One Canadian dollar buys 95.48 U.S. cents.  Implied volatility for three-month options on Canada’s
dollar versus its U.S. counterpart touched 7.97 percent, the
highest level since July 17 on an intraday basis. The measure is
used to set option prices and gauge the expected pace of
currency swings. The average for this year is 6.8 percent.  Crude Climbs  The Canadian dollar erased losses as crude oil climbed and
as a drop in the  Mexican peso , another so-called commodity
currency, failed to influence trading in the loonie, said
 Sebastien Galy , a senior currency strategist at Societe Generale
SA in  New York . The peso slid against most major peers, losing
0.4 percent to 13.2346 to the greenback.  Futures on West Texas Intermediate crude jumped as much as
3.2 percent to $109.32 a barrel in New York, the highest level
since July 19.  “You have oil quite a bit stronger today, so that should
dictate a higher Canadian dollar, but you have events in Syria
and elsewhere are causing a bit of a flight to the U.S.
dollar,” said Blake Jespersen, managing director of foreign
exchange at the Bank of Montreal, by phone from Toronto.  A U.S. official said the Obama administration was
constructing the legal and political justification for a limited
military strike on Syria that would demonstrate international
censure against chemical weapons. U.S. Secretary of State  John
Kerry  said yesterday the evidence is “undeniable” that
chemical weapons were used against residents of a Damascus
suburb last week in Syria’s civil war.  Commodities Gain  Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 raw materials
climbed 1.9 percent, the most since May on a closing basis.
Stocks fell, with the  S&P 500 Index  losing 1.6 percent.  Canadian  government bonds  rose, pushing the yield on the
benchmark 10-year security down nine basis points, or 0.09
percentage point, the most since August 2012, to 2.56 percent.
It was the lowest level since Aug. 13. The yield climbed on Aug.
23 to 2.78 percent, the highest since July 2011. The price of
the 1.5 percent debt due in June 2023 added 71 cents to C$90.90.  The loonie slid on Aug. 21 after minutes released by the
U.S. central bank of its July meeting showed most policy makers
were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke ’s
plan to start reducing monetary stimulus this year if the
economy improves.  September Start  The Fed will slow the pace of its $85 billion in monthly
bond purchases at policy makers’ Sept. 17-18 meeting, according
to 65 percent of economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9-13. The purchases have spurred concern they’ll lead to inflation
and debase the U.S. dollar. Investors are betting slower bond
buying will cause the greenback to strengthen against its
Canadian peer.  The Canadian dollar lost 1.5 percent last week, the most
since the five days ended June 21, as data showed wholesale and
retail sales fell in June and consumer-price gains stayed below
the central bank’s 1.2 percent inflation target in July for a
15th month.  “Obviously what happens with the Fed in September is going
to be a larger driver for the Canadian dollar,” said Kim of
RBS. “Despite the hawkish tint on the Bank of Canada’s policy
outlook, the data hasn’t been as strong.”  Bank of Canada Deputy Governor  John Murray  said investor
reaction to comments about tapering of monetary stimulus by the
U.S. Federal Reserve may have been overdone because there are
signs the process will be smooth.  ‘Exaggerated Reaction’  “The pronouncements appeared to trigger an exaggerated
reaction in financial markets,” Murray said in a speech today
in Kingston, Ontario. “A number of factors are working in favor
of a smoother transition.”  Canada has benefited from Fed stimulus that boosted demand
for exports, Murray said, and the lasting rebound that’s coming
will more than offset the drag of higher  interest rates  as the
U.S. central bank withdraws stimulus.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  