-- Canadian Stocks Fall Most Since June on Syria Tensions
-- B y   A l e x   B a r i n k a
-- 2013-08-27T20:34:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/canadian-stocks-fall-on-syria-tension-gold-shares-rally.html
Canadian  stocks  fell, giving the
benchmark index its biggest drop since June, on growing tension
over possible military action in Syria.  Raw-materials companies fell 3.7 percent,  reversing  an
earlier rally of as much as 1.3 percent amid a surge in  gold
prices . Energy shares also erased an advance amid a jump in oil.
OceanaGold Corp. and Niko Resources Ltd. tumbled more than 7.4
percent. Bank of  Nova Scotia  dropped 1.7 percent while Bank of
Montreal increased 0.4 percent as investors weighed quarterly
earnings reports.  The S&P/TSX  fell  169.09 points, or 1.3 percent, to
12,591.21 at 4 p.m. in Toronto, the most since June 24. The
index trimmed its gain for the month to 0.8 percent. Trading
volume was 4.7 percent higher than the 30-day average at this
time of the day.  “The gold stocks are the surprise,” John Kinsey , a
portfolio manager with Caldwell Securities Ltd. in Toronto, said
in a phone interview. The firm manages about $1 billion. “They
were up this morning and they have all turned around now. If you
are nervous about the market, you tend to sell the ones where
you have a profit. It has been a pretty good month for the gold
stocks and the oil stocks.”  The benchmark gauge  fell  yesterday, erasing an earlier
gain, after U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said the nation
will hold Syria’s government accountable for using chemical
weapons, fanning concern unrest may disrupt Middle East oil
supplies.  President  Barack Obama  is under growing pressure from U.S.
allies and Congress to go beyond denunciations of Syria and take
military action after the Aug. 21 attack that opposition groups
say killed more than 1,300 people. Iran’s Foreign Ministry
warned that a U.S. attack on Syria would drag the whole region
into conflict.  Materials, Energy  All 10  industries  in the benchmark index fell. Technology
companies slid 2.6 percent, with CGI Group Inc. dropping 3.3
percent to C$34.45 and BlackBerry Ltd. declining 3.8 percent to
C$10.54.  Gold shares dropped after erasing an early rally. The
S&P/TSX Gold Index dropped 4.2 percent, paring its gain for the
month to 14 percent. The metal’s price jumped to the highest
since May as the Syrian political tension increased demand for
the precious metal as a store of value.  OceanaGold slid 9.4 percent to C$1.94. Alacer Gold Corp.
tumbled 5.1 percent to C$3.32.  Energy  companies  lost 0.2 percent, trimming their advance
for the year to 2.6 percent. Niko Resources declined 7.4 percent
to C$5.13. West Texas Intermediate crude rose to an 18-month
high on speculation that tension in  Syria  will disrupt Middle
East supplies.  Bank Earnings  The S&P/TSX Commercial Banks Index fell 0.9 percent even as
two of its eight members reported third-quarter earnings that
beat analysts’ estimates.  Bank of Montreal, the nation’s fourth-largest lender by
assets, increased 0.4 percent to C$66.05, the highest close
since 2007. Profit topped analysts’ estimates on record  consumer
lending  and lower provisions for bad loans.  Bank of Nova Scotia (BNS)  fell 1.7 percent to C$57.71.  Canada ’s
third-largest lender by assets said  net income  for the period
fell 14 percent from a year earlier when the bank had a one-time
gain. Earnings from its global banking and markets business
slipped 3 percent in the latest quarter.  National Bank of Canada  reports results tomorrow, followed
by Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, Royal Bank of Canada and
Toronto-Dominion Bank on Aug. 29. The country’s six biggest
banks are expected to post average per-share profit growth of
3.3 percent excluding some items, according to  Robert Sedran , an
analyst with CIBC.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Barinka in  New York  at 
 abarinka2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  