-- Carberry Joins England One-Day Cricket Squad; Cook, Bell Rested
-- B y   B e n   P r i e c h e n f r i e d
-- 2013-08-27T11:28:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/carberry-joins-england-one-day-cricket-squad-cook-bell-rested.html
Hampshire batsman Michael Carberry
has been selected for  England ’s one-day cricket squad for the
five-match series against Australia after a successful season
with his county.  Test captain Alastair Cook is among players from the Ashes-winning team who’ve been rested for the one-day games, which
begin Sept. 6 at Headingley, Leeds.  Left-hander Carberry, who played a single Test match
against  Bangladesh  in 2010, had already been chosen for
England’s Twenty20 squad, which plays Australia in Southampton
on Aug. 29 and in Durham two days later. He hasn’t played in an
ODI for England.  Carberry scored more than 500 runs in Hampshire’s run to
the semifinal of this season’s domestic Twenty20 competition, at
a strike rate of 142 runs per 100 balls.  Uncapped pace-bowlers Chris Jordan (Sussex), Jamie Overton
(Somerset) and Boyd Rankin (Warwickshire) are also included in
the squad, which will be led by Middlesex’s Eoin Morgan after
selectors decided not to play Cook. Other players rested
following England’s 3-0 Ashes series win are James Anderson, Ian
Bell, Stuart Broad and Graeme Swann.  “We have decided to rest a number of senior players which
will allow them to recover from a heavy workload over the last
three months and to prepare for the tour of  Australia  which
begins in eight weeks.” national selector Geoff Miller said on
the  England and Wales Cricket Board website .  Yorkshire batsman Gary Ballance also earns his first senior
international call-up, named in a separate squad for the one-off
match against Ireland on Sept. 3.  England one-day squad against Australia: Eoin Morgan (Middlesex,
captain), Ravi Bopara (Essex), Jos Buttler (Somerset), Michael
Carberry (Hampshire), Steven Finn (Middlesex), Chris Jordan
(Sussex), Jamie Overton (Somerset), Kevin Pietersen (Surrey),
Boyd Rankin (Warwickshire), Joe Root (Yorkshire), Ben Stokes
(Durham), James Tredwell (Kent), Jonathan Trott (Warwickshire),
Luke Wright (Sussex).  England one-day squad against Ireland: Eoin Morgan (Middlesex,
captain), Gary Ballance (Yorkshire), Ravi Bopara (Essex), Danny
Briggs (Hampshire), Jos Buttler (Somerset), Michael Carberry
(Hampshire), Steven Finn (Middlesex), Chris Jordan (Sussex),
Jamie Overton (Somerset), Boyd Rankin (Warwickshire), Ben Stokes
(Durham), James Taylor (Nottinghamshire), James Tredwell (Kent),
Luke Wright (Sussex).  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Priechenfried at the London Sports Desk  at  bprie@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  