-- Carney’s Maiden BOE Speech to Confront Guidance Skeptics
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-08-28T09:35:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/carney-s-maiden-boe-speech-to-confront-forward-guidance-skeptics.html
Mark Carney ’s first policy speech as
 Bank of England  governor is his chance to address investor
doubts that he can keep  interest rates  on hold at a record low
until at least late 2016.  Carney introduced so-called forward guidance this month to
prevent a pickup in borrowing costs from undermining the
economic recovery. Since then, investors have begun raising bets
on higher rates before 2016 and pushed up  gilt yields . Carney
will address business leaders at 1:45 p.m. in  Nottingham ,
England, and hold a news conference after the event.  Today’s speech will test his ability to push back rate
expectations amid growing evidence the recovery is gaining
traction. Deputy Governor Charlie Bean said last week he was “a
little bit surprised” by investors’ reaction to the plan to
keep rates unchanged at least until unemployment, now at 7.8
percent, falls to 7 percent.  “He’ll have to come out and reiterate that the pickup in
interest rates is unwarranted, though I’m not sure it’s
enough,” said  Ross Walker , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc. “The markets are going to test this new
framework and the question is how far they push this until they
get a response.”  Today’s event, hosted by the  Confederation of British
Industry , will include audience questions after the speech. When
Carney unveiled the guidance plan on Aug. 7, he took questions
for an hour and gave five broadcast interviews.  Bean’s Signal  U.K. government bonds rose yesterday after Bean said in an
interview that policy makers are sending a “clear signal” that
they won’t increase interest rates anytime soon. The rate on the
1.75 percent bond maturing in September 2022 dropped 12 basis
points.  The yield on the 2.25 percent security due in September
2023 was little changed at 2.78 percent today.  Short-sterling futures have fallen this month, indicating
investors are increasing their bets on higher interest rates.
The implied yield on the contract expiring in September 2015 was
at 1.27 percent. It’s up 33 basis points since July 31.  The BOE has forecast that the 7 percent threshold won’t be
reached until at least the fourth quarter of 2016. The policy
framework includes so-called knockouts, including one that says
the plan is voided if policy makers decide medium-term  inflation 
is likely to breach 2.5 percent.  That clause triggered dissent within the BOE’s Monetary
Policy Committee, with  Martin Weale  voting against guidance. He
said in an interview with the Financial Times published Aug. 26
that people may interpret the knockout as a weakening of the
MPC’s 2 percent inflation target.  Economic Improvement  Since Carney joined the BOE on July 1 from the  Bank of
Canada , the U.K. recovery has shown signs of strengthening. The
economy grew 0.7 percent in the  second quarter  and manufacturing
and  services gauges  improved last month. That’s compounded a
selloff in gilts sparked by the  Federal Reserve ’s debate about
when to taper its $85 billion of monthly stimulus.  “I don’t see what other levers he can pull,”  Michael Hewson , an analyst at CMC Markets Plc in  London , said on
Bloomberg Television today. “I don’t think quantitative easing
is anything he can talk about or do because I don’t think the
data warrants it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  