-- McDonald’s May Lose in Burger King Pair Trade: Chart
-- B y   D a v i d   W i l s o n
-- 2013-08-27T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/mcdonald-s-may-lose-in-burger-king-pair-trade-chart.html
McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  may lose more
ground to  Burger King Worldwide Inc. (BKW)  in the stock market as a
menu overhaul proceeds, according to Jonathan Krinsky, Miller
Tabak & Co.’s chief technical market analyst.  The CHART OF THE DAY tracks the price ratio between shares
of the  restaurant chains  since Burger King went public in June
2012. The stock’s debut resulted from a merger with a company
co-founded by  William Ackman , a billionaire investor. Burger
King is 70 percent-owned by 3G Capital Inc., which acquired the
company in a 2010 buyout.  Buying Burger King and betting against McDonald’s through
short sales may be a profitable trade, Krinsky wrote yesterday
in a report with a similar chart. Short sales involve selling
borrowed stock to profit from a drop in price.  “Each of these trades is interesting in its own right,”
Krinsky wrote, “but the pair trade in particular seems to make
sense.” The New York-based analyst made share-price estimates
of $22 for Burger King and $87 for McDonald’s. This would move
the ratio as high as 0.253, surpassing a record of 0.213 that
was set on June 17. The ratio began the year at 0.186.  Shares of Burger King, based in Miami, rose 21 percent for
the year through yesterday. The advance exceeded an 8 percent
gain for McDonald’s, based in Oak Brook, Illinois. McDonald’s
said yesterday that U.S. stores will bring out chicken wings
during the fall season, and introduced egg-white breakfast
sandwiches and chicken McWraps earlier in the year.  Scarcity may be working in favor of Burger King’s stock,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Out of 351.1 million
shares outstanding, only 27 percent are included in the float,
or stock available for trading. Most of the rest belong to 3G,
also based in Miami. McDonald’s has about 1 billion shares
outstanding, and almost all of them are part of the float.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Wilson  in  New York  at 
 dwilson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Nagi at 
 chrisnagi@bloomberg.net  