-- Charles Schwab Must Face Auction-Rate Suit, Court Says
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-08-27T16:05:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/charles-schwab-must-face-auction-rate-suit-court-says.html
Charles Schwab  Corp. must face a
lawsuit in which  New York  state accused it of falsely describing
auction-rate securities as liquid investments without disclosing
the risks, an appeals court ruled.  The San Francisco-based brokerage was sued by  Andrew Cuomo 
in August 2009 when he was attorney general. A trial judge in
 Manhattan , Justice O. Peter Sherwood of state Supreme Court,
granted Schwab’s motion to dismiss the case in 2011.  A four-judge appeals court panel today reinstated two of
the four claims in the case, securities fraud allegations based
on the state’s  Martin Act  law, saying the attorney general’s
office presented enough evidence for a trial.  “We find the Martin Act causes of action to be
sufficiently pleaded given the fact that the statute is remedial
and should be broadly construed in order to attain its
beneficial purpose,” Justice Richard Andrias wrote. “Under the
statute, the word ‘fraud’ is broadly defined so as to embrace
even acts which ‘tend to deceive the purchasing public.’ Based
on this standard, the complaint sets forth actionable Martin Act
claims notwithstanding the absence of a specific allegation that
Schwab represented ARS to be liquid at times when they were
illiquid.”  Auction-rate securities are municipal bonds, corporate
bonds and preferred stocks whose rates of return are
periodically reset through auctions. The attorney general’s
office sued on behalf of investors who bought the securities
through Schwab.  State’s Accusation  The company was accused of engaging in “fraudulent and
deceptive conduct” and failing to disclose the risks involved
in the investments.  Schwab argued that the complaint didn’t allege statements
that were false when made or identify who made the
misstatements, when and where they were made or how they were
misleading, according to Sherwood’s order.  Sherwood said the complaint is “devoid of any allegation
of misrepresentations made that were untrue when made,” noting
that the attorney general’s office spent more than a year
investigating before filing the suit.  The appeals court said Sherwood based its conclusion on a
finding that there had been no failures in the auctions in the
20 years preceding August 2007 and erroneously evaluated the
merits of the claims.  Company Response  The company said it intends to fully defend its position
and is confident the court will rule in its favor. About 98
percent of the auction-rate securities held by Schwab clients
have been redeemed at par value, the company said in a
statement.  “Unlike some other downstream brokerage firms, Schwab did
not market or promote ARS, market or sell them to clients online
or compensate its registered representatives for ARS
transactions,” the company said. “Schwab’s role in these
transactions was simply to accommodate clients when they asked
for these types of products.”  The case is People of the State of New York v. Charles
Schwab & Co. Inc., 453388/2009, New York State  Supreme Court 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York State Supreme Court
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net /  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 