-- China Rules Out Xi-Abe Meeting at G-20 as Island Dispute Simmers
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-27T04:23:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/china-rules-out-xi-abe-meeting-at-g-20-as-island-dispute-simmers.html
A senior Chinese diplomat said  Japan 
is only paying “lip service” to the idea of resolving a
territorial dispute and ruled out a meeting between the two
countries’ leaders at a Group of 20 summit next month.  Chinese President Xi Jinping won’t meet Japanese Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe at the G-20 meeting in St. Petersburg,
 Russia , because Japan isn’t serious about improving ties, Vice
Foreign Minister Li Baodong told reporters in Beijing today,
citing Japan’s continued “provocative moves” in the East China
Sea.  “Under these circumstances, there is no basis for talks,”
Li said at a briefing to discuss Xi’s trip to the G-20 meeting.
“The Japanese side should stop paying lip service to the
issue.”  Li’s remarks reflect the lack of progress in a dispute over
an uninhabited island chain -- known as Senkaku in Japanese and
Diaoyu in Chinese -- that has damaged trade and diplomatic ties.
Japan’s government bought three of the five islands from their
private owner last September, sparking protests across  China .
China’s exports to Japan fell 2 percent in July from a year
earlier, the sixth straight decline.  Abe said he wanted to exchange views on regional stability
with the leaders of both China and South Korea, public
broadcaster NHK reported, citing comments Abe made yesterday
during a visit to  Kuwait .  Three Chinese Coast Guard vessels briefly entered Japanese
waters today near the disputed islands, Japan’s Coast Guard said
in a statement. Similar incidents took place earlier this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Hong Kong at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net ;
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  