-- China Power Seen Doubling With Renewables as Coal Holds Sway
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2013-08-27T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/china-power-seen-doubling-with-renewables-as-coal-holds-sway.html
China ’s generation capacity will
more than double to 2030, with half of all new plants powered by
renewable energy and coal remaining the most important fuel,
analysts said.  China may add 1,583 gigawatts of capacity and attract $1.4
trillion in renewables investment by that year, according to a
Bloomberg New Energy Finance report. Coal will still account for
more than 50 percent of power generation, the London-based
researcher said.  China, the world’s largest carbon-dioxide emitter, is
seeking to meet demand that will probably grow 5 percent a year
while forging a cleaner future after smog in Beijing in June
surpassed hazardous levels. The government has boosted solar-power targets as it seeks to curb pollution that spurred unrest
about dirty air and water resources.  “It is hard to underestimate the significance of China’s
energy consumption growth and its evolving generation mix,”
said   Michael Liebreich , BNEF’s London-based chief executive
officer. “The impacts will reach far beyond China and have
major implications for the rest of the world, ranging from coal
and gas prices to the cost and market size for renewable energy
technologies.”  China will add 88 gigawatts of new power plants -- the
equivalent of the U.K.’s entire installed capacity -- each year
to 2030, BNEF said. Renewable plants such as large hydropower
stations will account for half of the new capacity, it said.  Declining Emissions  Carbon emissions  from power generation could start to
decline by 2027 as renewables are added, according to the
researcher, which analyzed China’s power industry based on four
scenarios. Outcomes will hinge on factors such as the cost at
which China extracts shale gas reserves, water constraints on
drilling and power generation and the speed with which
environmental policies such as a carbon price are enforced, BNEF
said.  While coal-fired capacity will drop as renewables and gas
generation rise, the fuel’s share in the power mix will remain
highest at 58 percent in 2030, down from 72 percent last year,
according to BNEF. China consumes half the world’s coal.  “Despite significant progress in renewable energy
deployment, coal looks set to remain dominant to 2030,” said
Jun Ying, Beijing-based country manager and head of research for
China at BNEF. “More support for renewable energy, natural gas
and  energy efficiency  will be needed if China wants to reduce
its reliance on coal more quickly.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  