-- China’s Top Tweeters Under Fire
-- B y   A d a m   M i n t e r
-- 2013-08-27T18:39:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/china-s-top-tweeters-under-fire.html
Could a celebrity critic of the
Chinese government be so stupid as to hire a prostitute while in
Beijing? Advocates of a free Chinese Internet certainly hope so,
thanks to  the weekend arrest  of one of China’s most outspoken
Web personalities for allegedly hiring a prostitute almost four
decades his junior.  The news -- and the uncertainty surrounding it -- has
electrified the Chinese blogosphere, raising questions about
just how far the authorities intend to go to control online
speech and shame those who threaten its grip on public opinion.  The alleged john is  Charles Xue , a naturalized U.S.
citizen, billionaire venture capitalist and angel investor with
 stakes in dozens of projects , better known in China by his Sina
Weibo handle,  Xue Manzi . With more than 12 million followers,
Xue counts as a “Big V,” the informal term applied to a few
hundred high-profile users who have had their identities
verified by Sina Weibo.  According to  the state-owned Xinhua news
agency, Sina and QQ, owners of the two largest Chinese
microblogs, have approximately 200 account holders with more
than 10 million users each. Though the term has nothing to do
with politics, informally “Big V” is widely used to refer to a
politically liberal group of popular microbloggers who argue for
the rule of law, constitutionalism and the right to mouth off
without being censored.  Predictably, this has brought them under the jealous eye of
a Chinese Communist Party still nostalgic for its pre-Internet
monopoly on the levers of public opinion. Over the last few
months there has been  an uptick  of Party commentary  suggesting 
that Big Vs and other public intellectuals represent
destabilizing influences on society. Then, on Aug. 10, Lu Wei,
director of  China ’s State Internet Information Office, convened
a forum (which was later televised) on “ the social
responsibilities of Internet celebrities. ” In attendance were
eight Big Vs, including the avuncular 60-year-old Xue Manzi.
 According to Xinhua , the attendees agreed “that everyone should
be responsible for what they say and do online as the Internet
is also subject to laws and moral rules in the real world.”  The statement was not meant as boilerplate. It was, rather,
a firm assertion that online speech is subject to the same types
of spoken and unspoken government controls (and self-censorship)
as newspapers, television broadcasts and other news media over
which the party has a much tighter rein. Though these laws and
moral rules are rarely spelled out, everyone on China’s Internet
knows that certain Big Vs -- including Xue -- have pushed
against them, and by extension the party’s authority. During the
Aug. 10 program, Lu Wei laid out what are now being called “ the
seven bottom lines”  that online users should respect, including
the legal system, the socialist system, social order and (of
course) the truth.  In the days following the broadcast, state-owned media
followed-up with extensive  news reports  and  editorials  in key
party outlets explaining the “seven bottom lines” and the need
to regulate everyone on the Internet -- including the Big Vs.
Last Friday, for example, Beijing Youth Daily published a
 widely-circulated editorial  in which it described the
prerequisites for creating a “healthy” Internet:
“A concentrated crackdown on Internet lawbreakers like
rumormongers is necessary. But long term, if the ‘seven bottom
lines’ are to become a norm then the self-regulation of
celebrities, as well as the refinement of the legal system, will
be necessary.”  A full-scale government crackdown and campaign against
rumor-mongering has  been unfolding  for  a week  now (it follows on
previous  anti-rumor campaigns ). Among the most prominent arrests
were individuals associated with  Beijing Erma , a public
relations firm apparently connected with generating rumors and
scandals including -- purportedly -- a spectacular  2011 incident 
involving alleged corruption at the Red Cross from which the
organization has yet to recover. According to  state media
reports , one of the individuals associated with Beijing Erma had
at one time been employed by Big V Xue Manzi, though there’s no
reason to believe that Xue knew him. Still, the mention of Xue’s
name in connection to rumor-mongering was not accidental, and
probably was meant to connect him -- a Big V -- to criminality,
if only tangentially.  For now, there’s no evidence to suggest that Xue was
specifically targeted by the authorities in a honey trap. But it
would be naive for Xue to have been unaware that -- in light of
the crackdown -- he was most definitely under scrutiny along
with other Big Vs. Under such circumstances, engaging a
prostitute would be the height of Eliot Spitzer-like
recklessness.  Rumors of Xue’s arrest on prostitution charges began
circulating on Sina Weibo early Sunday morning. Beijing’s Public
Security Bureau  confirmed  the story via Sina Weibo at 11:12 a.m.
with a note that Xue, and the woman with whom he had been
seized, had both confessed. By mid-afternoon, the news was the
top trending topic on Sina Weibo, despite the fact that the Bo Xilai trial was just then producing some of its most salacious
testimony and also generating significant online traffic.  The fact that Xue -- a widely admired figure -- had been
arrested in the midst of the Big V campaign was deeply
suspicious to Chinese microbloggers. Xu Shaolin, an outspoken
Beijing-based Sina Weibo commentator, spoke for thousands of
Chinese when he  asked , shortly after the Beijing police
confirmed the rumors, “whether an old guy of 60 could have such
an excitable sex drive? He couldn’t keep it down for a few
days?”  Even Hu Xijin, the conservative editor of the state-owned,
hardline Global Times newspaper questioned the timing of the
arrest in a deleted Sina Weibo post  preserved  and translated by
the South China Morning Post. “It cannot be ruled out that the
authorities were using the prostitution charge to frame Xue
Manzi,” Hu tweeted Sunday. “It is a universal ruse by
governments around the world to use sex scandals or tax evasion
charges to frame political rivals.”  So far, Xue Manzi hasn’t emerged publicly to explain or
dispute the charges. In his absence (probably forced), the story
of the aging Internet celebrity and his call girl has run wild
across Chinese media platforms. On Monday, even the usually
respectable, semi-independent Caijing went so far as to  claim  --
based on multiple unnamed sources -- that Xue had “repeatedly
engaged prostitutes.”  For most observers, the question isn’t whether or not Xue
is guilty of a petty crime. It is, rather, what the state-owned
news media’s gleeful trumpeting of Xue’s alleged failings says
about the Party and its hopes to wrest control of public
discourse back from microblogs. This Big V is hardly deserving
of your respect, the Party is arguing. Only we are.  (Adam Minter, the Shanghai correspondent for the World View
blog, is writing “Junkyard Planet,” a book on the global
recycling industry. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this article: Adam Minter
at  ShanghaiScrap@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article: Nisid Hajari
at  nhajari@bloomberg.net  