-- China Says Briton Admits to Illegally Gathering Data Amid Probe
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-27T05:55:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/china-says-briton-admits-to-illegally-gathering-data-amid-probe.html
China ’s public security ministry
 said  the British founder of a consultancy serving multinational
companies confessed to illegally obtaining and selling private
data on Chinese citizens.  Peter Humphrey , founder of  ChinaWhys , and his wife Yu Ying
Zeng, a U.S. citizen, have “expressed extreme regret for their
actions, and have apologized to the Chinese government,” the
ministry said in a statement today.  The couple, arrested in Shanghai on Aug. 16, were accused
of illegally collecting personal information of Chinese
citizens, including home addresses and names of family members
and then selling the information in reports mainly to foreign
companies such as manufacturers, financial institutions, and law
firms, according to the ministry.  The statement made no reference to whether the arrests were
connected to a bribery investigation of U.K. drugmaker
 GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) , which was reported by the Wall Street
Journal to have hired the company, citing unidentified people
with knowledge of the situation.  The pair were first detained by authorities on July 10,
Reuters reported, the day before the ministry  announced  that
Glaxo executives were under probe.  Glaxo is being investigated on allegations it used cash and
sexual favors to bribe doctors and health officials in the
country to promote sales of its drugs．A government crackdown
against corruption has extended to other foreign drugmakers and
local hospitals since China announced the Glaxo probe.  Garry Daniels, a spokesman for Glaxo, said in an e-mail on
Aug. 21 that Humphrey has never been a Glaxo employee.  ‘Discreet Gathering’  Humphrey started  ChinaWhys  with his wife in 2003, and has
about 100 clients a year with annual sales of several million
 yuan , according to the ministry statement. Calls to a Shanghai
office number and a mobile phone listed on the ChinaWhys website
weren’t answered.  On the ChinaWhys website, the company describes itself as
“business advisers with eyes in China, walking multinationals
through the labyrinth of opportunity, risk and unfamiliar
cultural environment,” and listed services such as vetting of
partners and “discreet gathering of timely business
intelligence.”  State-owned CCTV broadcast a  news segment  today of a man
which they implied was Humphrey, with his face blurred out and
dressed in a black shirt and bright orange vest, confessing to
illegal acts and apologizing to the Chinese government.  The Beijing-based couple moved ChinaWhys’ office to
 Shanghai  in 2009 and hired more than 10 employees, the Public
Security Ministry said in the statement. Shanghai police
searched ChinaWhys’ offices and found more than 500 research
reports, of which dozens of copies “seriously violated the
privacy of Chinese citizens”, it said, adding that
investigations are continuing.  Humphrey’s biography on the website listed his previous
jobs as a foreign correspondent with Reuters and head of China
investigations with PricewaterhouseCoopers, while Yu  formerly
served  as China chairwoman of the American Chamber of Commerce’s
Transportation and Logistics Forum.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  