-- China Profits Jump as Yi Sees Limited Effect From Fed: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-27T04:55:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/china-s-industrial-profits-rebound-as-growth-stabilizes-economy.html
China ’s industrial-profit growth
rebounded in July, adding to signs that the world’s second-biggest economy is stabilizing after a two-quarter slowdown and
an interbank lending squeeze in June.  Net income rose 12 percent from a year earlier after
gaining 6.3 percent in June, the statistics bureau said in
Beijing today. Power, telecommunications, and auto manufacturing
contributed to the increase, while coal miners’ profits slid.  Today’s data add to higher-than-forecast industrial
production in July, a  rebound in trade , and a stronger reading
for a manufacturing index released last week. At a briefing in
Beijing,  Yi Gang , a deputy governor of the central bank, said
today that a Federal Reserve exit from quantitative easing may
have only a “limited” effect on China compared with other
emerging economies.  “This is another indicator that helps to paint a positive
picture for the near-term growth outlook,” said Chang Jian,
China economist at Barclays Plc in  Hong Kong . The economy may
expand 7.6 percent from a year earlier this quarter, up from 7.5
percent in the second quarter, she said.  At the same time, Chang said she was cautious about the
medium term as the nation grapples with industrial overcapacity,
declines in export competitiveness, property oversupply and
risks for the financial system. The Shanghai Composite Index
fell 0.2 percent as of 11:30 a.m. local time.  G-20 Meeting  At a briefing ahead of a Group of 20 leaders meeting in  St.
Petersburg ,  Russia , next month, Chinese officials said that a
key topic would be minimizing the negative effects on other
nations from the Fed winding back stimulus. Vice Finance
Minister  Zhu Guangyao  cited India and  Indonesia  as examples. At
the same time, Yi said that the impact on China is “not that
obvious.”  Zhu said China is shifting gears in terms of growth rate,
while going through “painful” economic restructuring and
digesting the effects of past domestic stimulus measures.  In  Tokyo , meanwhile, expert panels are meeting this week to
discuss the threat that a planned sales-tax increase to 8
percent from 5 percent in April next year poses to the nation’s
recovery because of the likely blow to consumption.  Former Bank of  Japan  Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata
yesterday joined advisers to Prime Minister Shinzo Abe in urging
an alternative approach, saying that the levy should increase by
1 percentage point a year. Iwata also called for 5 trillion yen
($51 billion) in stimulus spending if the tax is hiked as
planned, Economy Minister Akira Amari told reporters.  Aso, Kuroda  Seven panels meet this week, with Finance Minister Taro Aso
and  Bank of Japan  Governor Haruhiko Kuroda among those
attending. Abe will make a final decision on the tax by early
October at the latest, Amari said this week.  Aso and Amari were quizzed by reporters today on the
potential for a cut in corporate income tax. They said Abe
hasn’t given any specific instructions to consider such a move.  Elsewhere in the world, indicators for confidence in
 Germany  and the U.S. may give a mixed picture today. In Germany,
the Ifo institute’s business climate index may rise to the
highest level in six months, a Bloomberg News survey shows. The
New York-based Conference Board’s index of sentiment among U.S.
consumers probably fell for a second month.  China’s economy  is showing increasing signs of stabilizing,
statistics bureau spokesman Sheng Laiyun said yesterday at a
briefing in Beijing, adding that July economic indicators gave
“positive signs.”  At Nomura Holdings Inc. in Hong Kong, chief China economist
Zhang Zhiwei said today that the sustainability of the nation’s
recovery is not yet assured, adding that growth may drop below 7
percent in the first half of 2014. He sees a 6.9 percent
expansion next year.  Premier  Li Keqiang  will achieve his 7.5 percent growth
target this year, according to a Bloomberg News survey of
economists this month.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Hu Shen in Beijing at 
 hshen33@bloomberg.net ;
Penny Peng in Beijing at 
 ppeng18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  