-- Chong Hing Bank Jumps to Record on Bid Report: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-08-27T05:38:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/chong-hing-bank-jumps-to-record-on-bid-report-hong-kong-mover.html
Chong Hing Bank Ltd. (1111) , Hong Kong’s
smallest family-run lender, jumped to the highest level since
its stock market debut 19 years ago after a media report that
there may be a new bid for a stake in the lender.  The potential buyer may offer HK$40 a share, or about 2.3
times book value, for the stake held by the Liu family, Oriental
Daily News reported today, citing market speculation.  Shares of
the bank , in which the family controls about 60 percent, jumped
7 percent to HK$28.45, the highest since July 12, 1994, at 1:37
p.m., data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Independent third parties have approached the controlling
shareholder of  Liu Chong Hing Investment (194)  Ltd., the parent
company, about a possible purchase of interests in Chong Hing
Bank, the companies said in a joint statement Aug. 7. Takeover
speculation has mounted since November, when Lau Wai-man became
the first chief executive officer from outside the Liu family.  “A bid of 2.3 times P/B is an attractive one given that
the financial market right now is still not yet back to the
heyday of 2007,” Ronald Wan, a committee member at the  Hong
Kong  Securities & Investment Institute, said by phone. “If I
were the bidder, I would pay two times P/B at the most, as Chong
Hing Bank isn’t the best choice among the family banks in Hong
Kong in terms of its clientele and branch network.”  Shares of Chong Hing Bank have doubled since Nov. 28, when
it announced Lau would replace Liu Lit-chi, a member of the
founding family who spent more than 50 years at the bank. The
lender is  trading  at about 1.6 times book value, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Miranda Tse, a spokeswoman at Chong Hing Bank, declined to
comment on today’s report. CEO Lau said in March that the lender
was open to proposals from prospective buyers for all or part of
the bank.  Yue Xiu Group, a trading arm of  China ’s Guangzhou city
government, is considering a bid for Chong Hing Bank, a person
familiar with the matter said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  