-- Christanto Cooperating in Australia Banknotes Bribes Case
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2013-08-27T09:04:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/christanto-cooperating-in-australia-banknotes-bribes-case.html
Radius Christanto, an Indonesian
businessman accused of conspiracy to bribe foreign officials, is
cooperating with Australian authorities and may be a witness for
them, his lawyer said.  “He’s an extremely valuable witness or a star witness,”
Christanto’s lawyer Hamidul Haq told a  Singapore  subordinate
court today that agreed the Indonesian, who isn’t challenging
his extradition to  Australia , be surrendered.  At least nine former managers and employees at Note
Printing Australia Ltd, the money-printing unit of the country’s
central bank, and Securency International Pty, the unit it
formerly part owned, were charged in relation to the bribing of
officials in  Malaysia ,  Indonesia , Nepal and  Vietnam  from 1999 to
2004 to win banknote printing contracts.  Australian authorities have acknowledged that statements
Christanto gave them have been very helpful, Haq told the
Singapore court today. Christanto, 64, has lived in Singapore
since 1989.  Australia boosted penalties for foreign bribery offenses in
2010 to a maximum fine of A$1.7 million ($1.5 million) and as
much as 10 years in jail for an individual and A$17 million for
corporations. The law allows “facilitation payments,” or the
providing of “minor” benefits to people who can expedite a
routine government action.  David Ellery, the former chief financial officer at
Securency, pleaded guilty to one charge of false accounting and
was given a six-month suspended sentence last August after
agreeing to testify for the prosecution.  The Singapore case is Public Prosecutor v Christanto Radius
W/APP 5/2012. Singapore Subordinate Courts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  