-- Coeure Says No ECB Rate Increases Seen in Extended Period
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-08-27T13:34:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/coeure-says-no-ecb-rate-increases-seen-in-extended-period.html
European Central Bank Executive
Board member Benoit Coeure said he doesn’t expect inflation
risks that would cause the central bank to increase interest
rates any time soon.  “The ECB will raise rates when risks to medium-term  price
stability  materialize,” Coeure said today at an event in
Gothenburg,  Sweden . “But -- and it’s an important but -- the
Governing Council doesn’t expect that to happen for an extended
period of time.”  The Frankfurt-based ECB introduced forward guidance on
rates in July, as the prospect that the U.S. would tighten
monetary policy prompted financial markets to price in higher
borrowing costs. With the euro area’s economy now growing after
six quarters of contraction, policy makers are trying to prevent
rising market rates from choking the recovery.  “Where I see a challenge is not at the ECB level, but the
ability of the financial system in the euro area to withstand
higher  interest rates ,” Coeure said. The ECB holds its regular
rate-setting meeting on Sept. 5, when new staff forecasts for
economic growth and inflation will be published.  Comparing the currency bloc’s efforts to tame its debt
crisis, now in its fourth year, with U.S. measures, Coeure said
European policy makers underestimated the weakness of the banks,
lengthening the time needed to recover.  “If something could have been done better, it would have
been to do just as the U.S. had done, and to identify at an
earlier stage weaknesses in bank balance sheets,” he said.  Weak credit makes a review of bank assets that the ECB will
undertake at the beginning of next year even more important,
Coeure said. That’s a precondition for the ECB to take up bank-supervision duties as part of a European banking union that is
set to include a form of joint resolution for failing lenders.  “Banking union is necessary and it’s absolutely urgent,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Gothenburg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Fergal O’Brien at 
 fobrien@bloomberg.net  