-- Colony’s Sebastien Bazin to Head European Hotelier Accor
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t ,   D a v i d   C a r e y   a n d   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-08-27T13:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/colony-s-sebastien-bazin-to-head-european-hotelier-accor.html
Sebastien Bazin, Colony Capital
LLC’s head of European investing, will take over as chairman and
chief executive officer of  Accor SA (AC)  as the lodging company
focuses on reducing the proportion of hotels it owns.  Bazin will leave his position at Colony, the Santa Monica,
California-based private-equity firm headed by Tom Barrack,
Accor said in a statement today. Current Chairman Philippe
Citerne has been appointed vice chairman and Yann Caillere,
acting CEO since Paris-based Accor fired Denis Hennequin in
April, will leave the company.  “I take on this new role with great ambition for the
group, to which I am deeply committed, and acute awareness of
the challenges it currently faces,” Bazin, 51, said in the
statement.  Accor, Europe’s biggest hotel company, plans to operate 40
percent of its hotels under franchise agreements, 40 percent
under management contracts and 20 percent under ownership or
leases by 2016, it said in February. The company’s plan includes
increasing its focus on  emerging markets , reorganizing staff,
selling some properties and cutting costs.  Bazin has been buying and selling real estate in Europe for
Barrack since 1997. Colony has been an investor in Accor since
2005 and a clash over governance between the two led to the 2009
resignation of then-chairman Serge Weinberg and five board
members. Colony and Eurazeo Capital together hold 21.4 percent
of Accor, Eurazeo said on its website.  Stock Climbs  Accor was down 1.5 percent in Paris trading at 28.80 euros
as of 3:07 p.m. The stock has gained 16 percent in the past 12
months, making it the seventh performer on the Bloomberg 500
Travel and Leisure Index, which climbed 15.7 percent in that
time.  The company last year sold its chain of more than 1,100
Motel 6 budget hotels in North America to  Blackstone Group LP (BX) 
for $1.9 billion.  Accor is due to release first-half results tomorrow before
the market opens. In  July , it said first-half revenue rose 1.8
percent from a year ago after it added 9,940 rooms. Most of the
new rooms are operated but not owned by the company.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in Los Angeles at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
David Carey in  New York  at 
 dcarey13@bloomberg.net ;
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  