-- Consumer Confidence Index in U.S. Increases to 81.5
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-08-27T21:04:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/consumer-confidence-index-in-u-s-increased-to-81-5-in-august.html
Consumer confidence  unexpectedly
improved in August as Americans grew more optimistic about
employment opportunities and the outlook for the economy.  The Conference Board’s index of  sentiment  advanced to 81.5
from a revised 81 the prior month that was stronger than
initially estimated, the New York-based private research group
said today. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of
economists was 79. Another report showed  home prices  appreciated
in June at the second-fastest pace in seven years.  Higher property values and stock-market returns are
boosting income expectations that will help sustain  consumer
spending . Well-to-do households accounted for the pickup in
sentiment this month, showing bigger job and wage gains are
needed for a broader expansion that benefits all income groups.  “Income expectations are finally starting to show some
strength,” said  Michael Brown , an economist at  Wells Fargo
Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “We’re starting to
see job growth, and consumers are feeling a little bit better
about their prospects. We’re a little more optimistic about the
prospects for consumer spending.”  While 67.9 percent of respondents said they expected
 interest rates  to rise further, that was down from a seven-year
high of 71 percent in July. Higher borrowing costs were
reflected in the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
 preliminary sentiment  reading for this month as deteriorating
home-buying conditions pushed the gauge down from July’s six-year high.  Mortgage Rates  The average rate on a 30-year mortgage climbed last week to
a two-year high of 4.58 percent, according to data from  Freddie
Mac . The rate fell in November to a record low of 3.31 percent.  Today’s report showed fewer Americans -- 5.1 percent --
said they planned to buy a house in the next six months. The
drop from 6.9 percent in July was  the biggest  since record-keeping began in 1970.  A report today from S&P/Case-Shiller shows the momentum in
home prices was starting to cool in June. The group’s  index  of
property values in 20 U.S. cities rose 12.1 percent from June
2012 after a 12.2 percent year-over-year gain in May that was
the biggest since March 2006.  Mortgage Rates  The “rate of growth of home prices is certainly slowing,
but we’re still posting respectable year-over-year increases,”
said  Brian Jones , a senior U.S. economist at  Societe Generale  in
 New York  and the top-ranked forecaster for the home-price index
over the past two years, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. “Housing’s in good shape. We’re always going to keep
one eye on  mortgage rates  to see if there is an appreciable
impact going forward.”  Stocks declined the most since June and oil surged to an
18-month high amid concern the U.S. will take military action
against  Syria . The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 1.6
percent, the most since June 20, to 1,630.48 at the close in New
York. Crude jumped 2.9 percent to $109.01 a barrel.  Elsewhere, German business confidence rose in August to the
highest level in 16 months, indicating the recovery in  Europe ’s
largest economy is gathering momentum.  In  China , industrial-profit growth rebounded in July,
adding to signs the world’s second-biggest economy is
stabilizing after a two-quarter slowdown.  Estimates for U.S. consumer confidence ranged from 74.3 to
82 in the Bloomberg survey of 71 economists after an initial
July reading of 80.3. The measure averaged 53.7 during the
recession that ended in June 2009. The cutoff date for the
Conference Board’s survey was Aug. 15.  Wealthier Americans  The data showed the gains in confidence occurred among
wealthier Americans, with sentiment jumping for those with
incomes of $100,000 or more. Sentiment decreased among
households earning less than $25,000 a year.  The Conference Board’s measure of  expectations  for the next
six months rose to 88.7 from 86. The share of Americans seeing
better business conditions climbed, and more respondents
expected jobs to become  more available  in the next six months.
The percent of who said incomes would increase in the next six
months advanced to the highest since February 2011.  The gauge of  present conditions  decreased to 70.7 this
month from 73.6 in July. The share of those who say jobs are
currently hard to get fell to the lowest since September 2008.
The difference in the shares of those saying employment
opportunities are currently plentiful and people indicating
positions are hard to get was the narrowest since September
2008.  Earnings Prospects  “Consumers were moderately more upbeat about business, job
and earning prospects,”  Lynn Franco , director of economic
indicators at the Conference Board, said in a statement.
“Income expectations, which had declined sharply earlier this
year with the payroll tax hike, have rebounded to their highest
level in 2 1/2 years.”  While the labor market continues to improve, gains have
been slow and uneven. Employers added 162,000 workers to their
payrolls in July, the fewest in four months, the Labor
Department reported earlier this month. Employment climbed by
197,500 a month on average in the first six months of this year,
up from 180,000 in the second half of 2012.  Americans are still spending on big-ticket items such as
appliances and cars even as they cut back on other purchases.
Lowe’s Cos. and Home Depot Inc. reported stronger second-quarter
results as shoppers, boosted by the housing recovery, snapped up
home-improvement merchandise such as dishwashers, bathtubs and
tile.  Customers Challenged  For retailers selling clothes and other general
merchandise, the story is different. Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,
Target Corp.,  Foot Locker Inc. (FL)  and some other merchants report
that customers remain challenged financially and are spending
cautiously.  “We continue to approach the economic and competitive
environment with longer-term optimism but near-term caution,”
said Kathee Tesija, executive vice president at Target, a
discount retailer based in  Minneapolis ,  Minnesota .  “While overall consumer confidence statistics have
improved this year, it’s notable that optimism among lower-income households is lagging behind,” Tesija said on an Aug. 21
earnings call. “This year’s payroll tax increase and  consumer
spending  on autos and housing are crowding out spending on other
goods and services.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  