-- Crude Rises to 18-Month High on Syria Tension
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2013-08-27T20:41:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/crude-rises-to-five-week-high-on-syria-tension.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
to the highest level in 18 months on speculation that tension in
 Syria  will disrupt Middle East supplies.  Prices gained 2.9 percent as Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem said that Syria’s defenses will “surprise” the world
should the U.S. and its allies attempt military strikes. Western
powers told the Syrian opposition to expect a strike against
President Bashar al-Assad’s forces within days, Reuters
reported, citing sources who attended a meeting.  “The geopolitical tension in Syria certainly escalated one
notch higher and it’s a significant notch,” said  Harry Tchilinguirian , BNP Paribas SA’s London-based head of commodity
markets strategy. “It’s the implication of what a broader
conflict in Syria would mean to key suppliers in that region.
The market simply positioned itself long and waited for the next
turn of events.”  WTI for October delivery climbed $3.09 to $109.01 a barrel
on the New York Mercantile Exchange. It was the highest
settlement since Feb. 24, 2012, and the largest percentage gain
since May 2. Trading was 20 percent above the 100-day average
for the time of day at 2:38 p.m.  Prices were little changed after the American Petroleum
Institute reported U.S. crude inventories increased 2.47 million
barrels last week. The October contract increased $2.97, or 2.8
percent, to $108.89 a barrel in electronic trading at 4:36 p.m.
It traded at $108.91 before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  ‘Hearing Drums’  Brent for October settlement increased $3.63, or 3.3
percent, to $114.36 on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, a six-month high. Volume was 58 percent above the 100-day average. The
European benchmark’s premium to WTI widened to $5.35 from $4.81.  Syria is “hearing the drums of war all around us,” al-Muallem said at a televised news conference in Damascus. The
government hasn’t obstructed the United Nations probe into its
alleged use of chemical weapons, he said, adding that the U.S.
may be carrying out psychological warfare.  Secretary of State John Kerry said yesterday that President
 Barack Obama  will hold Syria accountable for the
“indiscriminate slaughter” of its own people with chemical
weapons. The evidence is “undeniable” that chemical weapons
were used against residents of a Damascus suburb last week and
that President Bashar al-Assad’s regime has the toxic weapons
and the ability to deploy them, he said.  Obama Administration  The Obama administration is focusing on legal and political
justification for a limited military strike as a demonstration
of international censure against Syria’s use of chemical
weapons, according to a U.S. official. Any action would have a
narrow scope aimed at military facilities, other infrastructure
and would not target Assad.  “It’s not the question of if they are going to intervene,
but just when and how,” said Julius Walker, global energy
markets strategist at UBS Securities LLC in New York. “The
issue is whether such intervention will pull in neighboring
countries.”  Syria borders  Iraq  and is near Iran, countries that
together hold almost a fifth of the output capacity from the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, according to
Bloomberg estimates. Syria itself produced just 164,000 barrels
a day of the 28.3 million pumped in the Middle East last year,
according to  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Statistical Review of World Energy.  Iran Warning  “Syria itself is not important for oil,” said Soozhana Choi, Deutsche Bank AG’s head of energy research in  Washington .
“Prices are up because of the broader ramifications of an
attack. There are concerns about what Syria’s allies do in
response to an attack on the Assad regime. There is a worry that
Iran may shelve negotiations over its nuclear program in
response.”  Iran , a longtime Syrian ally, warned that a U.S. attack on
Syria would drag the whole region into the conflict. Any use of
military force in Syria will “engulf the whole region,”
Foreign Ministry spokesman Abbas Araghchi told reporters in
Tehran today, in televised comments. Russia also warned against
an attack on Syria.  “The real risk is if Syria decides to retaliate in any
kind of way, or in an even worse scenario, if Iran gets pulled
in or Russia gets pulled in or one of Assad’s allies,” Walker
said. “We are going to see the price really shoot up.”  Libya Production  WTI also rose as Libya National Oil Corp. Chairman Nuri Berruien said the nation’s oil output may have dropped below
200,000 barrels a day amid protests, the lowest level since the
2011 uprising against Muammar Qaddafi. The North African
nation’s export capability has been crippled since members of
the Petroleum Facilities Guard seized control of terminals last
month to press for better working conditions.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
October was 25.1 percent, up from 21.2 percent yesterday, data
compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 654,184
contracts as of 4:37 p.m. It totaled 297,359 contracts
yesterday, the lowest level since Dec. 31 and less than half the
three-month average. Open interest was 1.83 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  