-- China Trainmakers’ Profits Decline on Lack of New Orders
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2013-08-28T02:18:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/csr-profit-drops-24-as-china-delays-bullet-train-orders.html
China ’s biggest trainmakers said
sales and profit fell in the first half after the nation delayed
orders for bullet trains.  CSR Corp. (1766) , the country’s biggest trainmaker and a partner
of  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) , and  China CNR (601299)  Corp. said the economic
slowdown also damped operations in the period. Shares of both
manufacturers declined today.  China CNR expects a “steady growth” in the second half as
state-run China Railway Corp. has opened a tender for 91 bullet
trains, ending a two-year order hiatus. The purchase comes after
Premier Li Keqiang said last month that railroads are key for
the nation “to get rich” as he tries to stimulate an economy
growing at the slowest pace in more than a decade.  “The trainmakers were adversely affected by the lack of
new orders in the first half,” said Xu Minle, a Shanghai-based
analyst at Bank of China International Ltd. “Looking ahead,
things will be better as the tenders for trains have begun and
the government has voiced its support for the rail system.”  CSR, which builds high-speed trains on its own and in a
venture with Bombardier, fell 3.5 percent to HK$5.72 in Hong
Kong trading. China CNR declined 1.6 percent to 4.21  yuan  in
 Shanghai .  Affected by Slowdown  China Railway’s bullet-train tender announced this month is
part of the more than 50 billion yuan ($8.2 billion) that will
be spent on new trains by the company. Expansion of the high-speed network, which includes the world’s longest line, has
lured passengers from airlines, prompting China Southern
Airlines Co. and  Air China Ltd. (601111)  to offer discounted fares.  China aims to have a high-speed train system comprising
four north-to-south and four east-to-west lines covering 90
percent of the population by 2020. The east-west networks are
under construction, while Beijing-Guangzhou is one of three
north-south lines in service.  “The operation of the company was to a certain extent
affected by the slowdown in the economy of China and the delay
in the tender invitation of its major customers,” CSR said in a
 filing  to the Hong Kong stock exchange yesterday.  The company’s  net income  declined 24 percent to 1.46
billion yuan, the Beijing-based trainmaker said. China CNR’s
profit fell 5.4 percent.  China’s economic growth slowed for a second straight
quarter to 7.5 percent in the three months ended in June,
extending the longest streak of expansion below 8 percent in at
least two decades.  Bondholders  China split the Ministry of Railways into two in March as
the nation’s new leaders sought to pare bureaucracy and
eliminate graft in a department that had more than 2 million
employees and 2.8 trillion yuan in debt. Some administrative
functions went to the Ministry of Transport’ State Railway
Administration and  China Railway (1186)  took over commercial
operations.  Premier Li’s endorsement hasn’t profited holders of China
Railway’s bonds, which have lost 1.8 percent this quarter as a
cash crunch at banks worsened and restructuring distanced the
government from the company’s Denmark-sized debt.  China Railway, the nation’s biggest issuer of corporate
bonds, has accounted for almost half of all debt sales regulated
by the NDRC this month, issuing 40 billion yuan of the 82.1
billion yuan total, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  China Railway’s total outstanding bonds have risen to 782
billion yuan as of Aug. 23, up from 560 billion yuan two years
ago, according to a statement posted on Chinabond’s website. The
company has to pay 36 billion yuan of interest per year on the
debt, the statement showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anand Krishnamoorthy at 
 anandk@bloomberg.net  