-- Daimler to Invest 2 Billion Euros to Raise China Output
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-27T08:45:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/daimler-to-spend-2-billion-euros-in-china-building-biggest-plant.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, plans to invest 2 billion euros ($2.7 billion) in
 China  building its largest car factory as it seeks to challenge
BMW and Audi in the country.  The plant is scheduled for completion as early as 2014 and
will help Daimler double China production to more than 200,000
units a year, Hubertus Troska, 53, head of the China business,
said in Beijing today. The investments will also go into an
engine plant and other auto production facilities.  While Daimler is planning to sell about 300,000 vehicles by
the middle of the decade with the introduction of 20 new or
upgraded models,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi reached that milestone in
2011 and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG did so last year. That
means Daimler needs to step up expansion in China to meet its
goal of becoming the world’s top luxury-car maker by 2020.  “Daimler has begun a catching-up process and is taking the
right steps now,” said  Juergen Pieper , a Frankfurt-based
analyst with Bankhaus Metzler. “They didn’t prioritize the
market as Volkswagen or BMW did a couple of years ago. Daimler
is now correcting this mistake.”  The Stuttgart, Germany-based company last year appointed
Troska to be the company’s first management board member to
oversee  operations in China . Prior to that, Troska ran the
Mercedes trucks unit.  China Improvement  Since then, he merged the company’s two distribution arms
in China and set up a support unit to coordinate marketing,
sales and training initiatives in the country.  China is set to become Daimler’s largest market as early as
2015, Troska said.  “If we’re not more successful in China, our goal of global
position number one will be very difficult to achieve,” Troska
said. “There’s a recognition that we need to improve our
performance in China vis-a-vis some of our competitors.”  The automaker, which has a target of selling more than 1.4
million cars globally this year, will introduce its revamped E-class sedan later this week and the new S-class sedan later this
year in China, which  accounts  for more than half of worldwide
sales of the model.  On Daimler’s first Chinese engine plant, which will begin
production in the fourth quarter, the company expects to begin
shipping some parts to  Germany  from next year, Troska said. The
quality of China-made components will be as good as if they were
manufactured in Germany, he said.  Jimmy Cao, a BMW China spokesman, said that currently the
company’s production at its China plants is for the Chinese
market. Audi China spokesman Martin Kuehl said the carmaker
doesn’t export from China.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Alexandra Ho in Shanghai at 
 aho113@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  