-- Fed Scaring People Betrays Low-Rate Addiction, Denmark Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2013-08-28T13:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/denmark-says-fed-scaring-people-highlights-low-rate-addiction.html
Denmark ’s Economy Minister  Margrethe Vestager  said the reaction to the  Federal Reserve ’s talk of
scaling back stimulus as early as next month has made clear just
how addicted people have become to record-low rates.  The  volatility  that followed the Fed’s June signal it may
be preparing to taper support measures was a reminder that low
borrowing costs are still underpinning demand across much of the
globe, Vestager said.  “It’s pretty obvious how we benefit from the low rates
when we consider what happened all over the world when the U.S.
Fed scared people saying that monetary policy perhaps should be
slightly less relaxed,” Vestager said yesterday in an interview
in Copenhagen. “We’re currently benefiting from very loose
monetary policy.”  Vestager said her government will target measures that help
keep rates low in Denmark, which is home to the world’s most
indebted households. Since June 19, when Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  first mentioned he may reduce his $85 billion in
monthly securities purchases, bond yields have jumped across
most of the globe.  Yield Effect  Yields on U.S Treasury bonds due 2023 soared as high as 2.9
percent this month from as low as 2.08 percent in June before
the Fed’s taper signal. German 10-year yields have risen more
than 30 basis points since June, while borrowing costs on
similar-maturity Danish debt touched the highest in at least a
year. Denmark’s 10-year yield was 2.03 percent today, compared
with a low in May of about 1.3 percent, according data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Danes’ record debt levels make them more vulnerable to
shifts in rates, the  International Monetary Fund  has warned. The
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development estimates
Danish households have 310 percent debt relative to their
disposable incomes, a world record.  “Since the crisis, consumers have clearly shown a desire
to consolidate,” Vestager said. Denmark’s bond-backed mortgage
system, the world’s largest per capita, has so far protected
households from interest rate shocks as investor demand for the
mostly AAA rated securities keeps rates low.  “We’re using a financing model that’s proven its value
over hundreds of years,” Vestager said. That’s helped
“mitigate refinancing risks,” she said.  Monetary accommodation is a regime that “everyone benefits
from,” Vestager said.  Since Bernanke’s June comments, he and his fellow policy
makers have sought to reassure investors that paring stimulus
doesn’t signal a tightening of monetary policy.  San Francisco President  John Williams  said yesterday the
Fed needs to coordinate its message “effectively” with other
central bankers to help avoid “at least somewhat the risks of
big market turmoil.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  