-- Dubai Stocks Stung by Syria After World-Beating Advance
-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f ,   V a l e r i y a   I v a s h c h e n k o   a n d   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-08-28T15:17:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/dubai-shares-decline-most-in-world-on-prospect-of-syria-strike.html
Dubai’s stock market , a haven for
investors this year even as violence in the region spread from
 Egypt  to  Iraq , is taking the biggest hit on prospects the U.S.
may launch a military  strike on Syria .  The DFM General Index, which has risen more than any
benchmark in the 40 largest equity markets in 2013, lost 1.3
percent after tumbling 7 percent yesterday, the most in four
years and the biggest decline among 90 measures tracked by
Bloomberg. Qatar’s QE Index dropped 2.3 percent while  Saudi
Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index climbed 0.4 percent. Dubai’s
5.591 percent bond due in June 2021 fell to a two-month low.  Dubai, one of seven sheikhdoms that make up the  United Arab
Emirates , has proven resilient to a global sell-off among
developing-nation assets after MSCI Inc. upgraded the U.A.E to
emerging-market status and the emirate’s real estate and tourism
sectors rebounded. Any escalation of violence in  Syria  could hit
the industries that contribute most to Dubai’s economic
expansion, according to Firebird Management LLC.  “As a financial capital of the  Middle East , Dubai suffers
the most from the overall uncertainty about the region that has
been reintensified by the current Syria crisis,” Ian Hague,
founding partner of New York-based Firebird, which manages $1.3
billion of assets, said by phone Aug. 27. “Dubai, which has
been attracting so much  money flow , is hit the worst now by this
fear for the future of the whole region. There was unrest in
Egypt, there is a crisis in Syria now. What’s next? The cost of
business is growing.”  Record Premium  This year’s rally sent valuations for Dubai’s benchmark to
a 38 percent premium over the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, the
widest gap on record. Today’s drop to 2,516.48 has left shares
in the DFM index trading at 13.5 times projected 12-month
earnings, compared with a multiple of less than 10.4 for the
MSCI gauge.  U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said that President
 Barack Obama  believes there must be accountability for the
“moral obscenity” of using chemical weapons in Syria and
evidence is “undeniable” that they were used against residents
of a region near Damascus last week. A military strike against
Syria will have “great consequences for the region,” Abbas
Araghchi, a spokesman for the Foreign Ministry in  Iran , a Syrian
ally, told reporters in Tehran yesterday.  ‘Panic’  “There are fears regarding what is happening in Syria and
so the panic selling yesterday and early today,” Nabil Al
Rantisi, managing director for brokerage at Abu Dhabi-based
Menacorp said by phone. “The market recovered because people
realised we are not really going to be affected by the strike.”  Dubai’s benchmark has rallied 55 percent this year, the
most among the 40 biggest stocks markets, even as protests in
the region started with the Arab Spring uprisings in 2011
spread. Egypt’s EGX 30 Index is down 4.3 percent in 2013, after
dropping to a year-low on June 24, as the military forced
Islamist President Mohamed Mursi out of office and launched a
deadly crackdown of his supporters.  Turkey ’s lira declined for a
third day.  The yield on Dubai’s 5.591 percent bonds rose 10 basis
points, or 0.10 of a percentage point, to 4.88 percent, the
highest since June 26. Dubai’s credit default swaps, or the cost
to protect the emirate’s debt against default, climbed 21 basis
points to 250 today, according to CMA data.  Israel Rebounds  “Yesterday was panic and looks like a little more today,
driven purely by political events and the fear of an escalating
conflict,” Amer Khan, a Dubai-based director at Shuaa Asset
Management, said by e-mail today. “An involvement of Iran would
be negative specifically for U.A.E. sentiment, but the declines
must be taken in context of the year-to-date rise.”  Abu Dhabi ’s gauge fell 2.2 percent, bringing the two-day
decline to 5 percent. Oman’s benchmark index retreated 3 percent
and Kuwait’s gauge declined 0.8 percent. Bahrain’s index gained
0.3 percent.  Israel ’s  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  fell 0.5 percent after its
steepest loss since December 2011 yesterday.  In Iraq, more than 3,000 people have been killed in terror
attacks in the past few months. In 2011 and 2012, suicide
bombings in Iraq averaged between five and 10 a month. Iraqi
Foreign Minister Hoshyar Zebari said on Aug. 16 that al-Qaeda
terror attacks have become such a deadly epidemic in Iraq that
the government in  Baghdad  is seeking U.S. advisers, air
surveillance or even drone strikes.  Trade  In Dubai, wholesale and retail trade accounts for almost a
third of the economy, which grew at the fastest pace in five
years in 2012 and is set to expand by 4.6 percent on average
through 2015, according to government estimates. That’s more
than twice as fast as the prior four years.  Emirates Integrated Telecommunications Co. fell 1.7 percent
to 6.26 dirhams.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , Dubai’s biggest publicly
traded developer, closed unchanged at 5.70 dirhams after
retreating as much as 7 percent during the day.  Foreign investors were net sellers of 61 million dirhams of
stock in Dubai today, according to data from the exchange. That
compared with purchases of 275 million dirhams yesterday.  “Foreign investors look at this as a region, and not
country-by-country,” Al Rantisi at Menacorp said. “The market
has rallied and a correction was due, although there is room to
grow further and price-earnings multiples are still
reasonable.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net ;
Valeriya Ivashchenko in London at 
 vivashchenk1@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  