-- The Fed and the Emerging Markets Peril
-- B y   M o h a m e d   A .   E l - E r i a n
-- 2013-08-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/the-fed-and-the-emerging-markets-peril.html
U.S. officials have taken to the
airwaves over the last few days to absolve the Federal Reserve
of blame for the recent turmoil in  emerging markets , a response
to some of the debate that arose from the Federal Reserve Bank
of Kansas City’s annual meeting last week in Jackson Hole,
 Wyoming .  The most common argument -- that the Fed’s  dual mandate  of
price stability and maximum employment is limited by law to
domestic objectives -- is correct. But that line of reasoning is
too narrow given the feedback loops between emerging markets,
corporate earnings and the U.S. economy.  There are two distinct narratives about the links between
Fed policies and financial volatility in emerging economies.  The first has been put forward most forcefully by officials
in emerging-market countries. They argue that the Fed’s
prolonged reliance on an experimental mix of unconventional
monetary measures -- namely,  zero interest rates , aggressive
forward guidance and large asset purchases known as quantitative
easing -- pushed investment capital out of the U.S. and toward
emerging economies. The scale and scope of these funds triggered
two types of legitimate concerns.  On the way in, the surge in capital led to appreciating
currencies, reduced export competitiveness and fueled pockets of
financial excesses. The reversal began in earnest in May amid
market perceptions that the Fed planned to taper its market
interventions. On the way out, the flows have caused sharp
exchange-rate depreciations, spikes in local interest rates, and
fears of inflation and diminished growth.  Negative Consequences  No wonder emerging economies in general, and  Brazil  in
particular, have been so vocal about the negative consequences
of the Fed’s unconventional policies. Such complaints have been
amplified by the Bank of  Japan ’s  policy shift  and the subsequent
depreciation of the Japanese currency, which makes the country’s
exports cheaper relative to other countries.  A second narrative comes from U.S. officials. Based on the
correct observation that the Fed is mandated by Congress to
pursue domestic objectives, these officials have been quite
dismissive of the concerns of emerging economies, using a
mixture of arguments: from urging them to adapt their own
policies to minimize the adverse effects of quantitative easing
to suggesting that emerging economies would be better off
because quantitative easing would revive growth in advanced
countries, and thus the rest of the world.  Yet U.S. officials should be careful. With domestic growth
engines again falling short of expectations, the last thing the
U.S. needs is a weakened corporate outlook due to faltering
growth in emerging economies.  So far, the negative effects have been confined to a few
companies in specific markets. These tend to be companies that
rely heavily on sales to emerging economies but don’t produce
there. Their unhedged revenues are falling due to  exchange-rate
movements , while demand prospects are dimming.  The effects will spread if the financial upheaval persists.
The impact would be especially severe in countries with large
current-account and budget deficits, limited growth prospects,
and small international currency reserves.  In that case, it will be just a matter of time before
consumption begins to fall. Higher domestic market interest
rates magnify this, discouraging new investment in plants and
equipment.  Ignoring Boundaries  Having already depleted some of their international
reserves to counter exchange-rate pressures, some countries
would now be more inclined to raise interest rates, adding to
the growth headwinds. In the meantime, the use of reserves is
already being reflected in lower incremental demand for U.S.
financial assets.  Agustin Carstens,  Mexico ’s central  bank governor , is right:
Central banks in rich countries cannot conduct policy in a
vacuum. The Fed, in particular, can’t -- and shouldn’t --
dismiss the impact of its policies on emerging economies.
Potential feedback loops are just too important to ignore; they
pay little attention to boundaries of the Fed’s official
mandate, no matter the legal arguments.  (Mohamed A. El-Erian is the chief executive officer and
chief investment officer of Pacific Asset Management Co.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Mohamed A. El-Erian at  el-erian@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 