-- Eased Mortgage-Risk Regulation to Be Proposed by U.S. Agencies
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-08-27T21:51:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/eased-mortgage-risk-regulation-to-be-proposed-by-u-s-agencies.html
An eased version of a rule requiring
lenders to keep a stake in risky mortgages that they securitize,
a restriction designed to discourage the kind of lax
underwriting that contributed subprime credit crisis, is set to
be proposed by U.S. regulators tomorrow.  The 500-page draft regulation written by a panel of six
agencies will replace a more stringent proposal for the
Qualified Residential Mortgage rule. The first version, which
was released in 2011, drew protests from housing industry
participants and consumer groups who said it would be too
restrictive of home lending.  The plan would require banks to retain a slice of mortgages
when borrowers are spending more than 43 percent of their
monthly income to repay their debt. The earlier proposal would
have required banks to keep a stake in loans when borrowers were
spending more than 36 percent of their income on all loan
payments and in loans with down payments of less than 20
percent.  The regulation, mandated by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, will
reshape who can lend and who can borrow because banks will
probably make only those loans that conform to the new
standards.  The proposal would align the qualified residential mortgage
rule with similarly named guidance governing risky home lending:
the qualified mortgage, or QM, rule. That regulation, issued by
the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau in January, contains no
down payment requirement. For loans in which borrowers are
spending no more than 43 percent of their income on debt, the QM
rule protects banks from being sued by investors or homeowners
for faulty underwriting.  The agencies will seek public comment before each holds a
vote on the final rule. The agencies involved in the rulemaking
are the Federal Reserve, Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.,
Department of Housing and Urban Development,  Federal Housing
Finance Agency , Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, and
Securities and Exchange Commission.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  