-- Hedge Fund 75-Cent Aussie Call Draws Investors: Australia Credit
-- B y   N a r a y a n a n   S o m a s u n d a r a m   a n d   I a i n   M c D o n a l d
-- 2013-08-27T03:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/hedge-fund-75-cent-aussie-call-draws-investors-australia-credit.html
European investors are backing
Excalibur Funds Management Pty’s call for the Australian dollar
to slump to 75 U.S. cents, reflecting  record bets  from
speculators on declines in the currency.  Institutional investors placed $200 million with the
Sydney-based hedge fund’s Australian dollar-only strategy since
it started July 17, Matthew Harper, a principal and trader at
Excalibur, said in an interview Aug. 22. Hedge funds and other
speculators swung from record bets on Aussie gains in December
to the most wagers ever this month that the currency will fall.  The local dollar slid 15 percent from a peak in April as
China’s slowdown sapped demand for the nation’s commodities and
the Reserve Bank cut benchmark rates to a record, eroding the
currency’s high-yield status. Harper forecast the spread between
Australian and U.S. 10-year government yields, now more than 1
percentage point, will converge by mid-2014.  “There are a lot of headwinds ahead for the Australian
dollar,” Harper said. “We can’t rely on  China , which we have
for the last four or five years.”  The Aussie, the world’s fifth-most traded currency, was at
89.81 U.S. cents as of 1 p.m. in Sydney, after reaching an
almost three-year low of 88.48 cents on Aug. 5. Its 14 percent
loss this year is the steepest slide among the Group of 10 major
currencies.  Record Shorts  The difference in the number of wagers by large speculators
on a drop compared with those on a gain -- so-called net shorts
-- increased by 462 to 63,183 in the week to Aug. 20, figures
from the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission
show. That compares with an all-time high of 76,779 on Aug. 6.  Australia , the world’s biggest shipper of iron ore, cut its
forecast in June for exports of minerals and energy. The Bureau
of Resources and Energy Economics said then that shipments were
set to total A$177 billion ($159 billion) in the year ended June
30, less than the A$186 billion previously estimated and the
first annual decline since the year ended June 30, 2010.  “China’s growth is going to be 5 percent in a couple of
years time,” Harper said. “We are in a downward spiral.”  China Slowing  The world’s second-largest economy slowed to a 7.5 percent
expansion pace in the second quarter, extending China’s longest
streak of expansion below 8 percent in at least two decades.  The RBA will drop rates further to stimulate Australia’s
economy unless the currency declines on its own, UBS AG said in
a research note e-mailed yesterday.  “A weaker currency is a necessary condition for full
economic rebalancing in Australia,” wrote  Gareth Berry , a
Singapore-based foreign-exchange strategist for UBS. “It will
likely happen one way or the other -– ideally without another
rate cut, but if a cut is needed the RBA will not be found
wanting.”  The RBA said the currency’s direction would be important in
setting policy, in minutes published Aug. 20 from the Aug. 6
meeting when it cut benchmark borrowing costs to a record 2.5
percent.  Traders see a 62 percent chance policy makers will cut the
overnight cash-rate target to 2.25 percent or lower by year-end,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg from swaps.  U.S. Spread  Australia’s 10-year government yield declined six basis
points to 3.96 percent, while the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield
was 2.80 percent. The margin between the two was 116 basis
points after reaching 96 basis points on Aug. 1, its smallest
since 2007.  The shrinking margin will discourage investment in the
Aussie, Harper said. He expects the Treasury yield to converge
with similar-dated Australian notes at around 3 percent in
mid-2014.  “In 2005, it was the closest convergence of those two
rates and the Aussie was 75 cents,” he said. “Traditionally
the Aussie has been in demand for its yield and when the carry
or interest-rate differential is no longer positive, global
demand for the currency falls dramatically.”  Harper, a former National Westminster Bank Plc trader in
Sydney, runs the fund with James Wallace, an ex- Citigroup Inc. (C) 
trader. The two each have more than 25 years of forex trading
experience and have been with Excalibur since its start in 2006.  Loss Limits  Excalibur, which also runs a G-10 currency strategy,
targets an annual return of 10 percent to 13 percent and has a
defined system of risk management that limits its maximum loss
to 2.5 percent in any one month. Its annualized compound return
stands at 10.02 percent since inception with a maximum monthly
loss of 2.1 percent, according to an Excalibur presentation.  “There aren’t that many currency strategies around and a
strategy focused on the Australian dollar is fairly uncommon,”
said Chris Gosselin, chief executive officer of  Australian Fund
Monitors Pty , which tracks hedge funds in the country.  The median estimate of 50 analysts compiled by Bloomberg is
for the Aussie to drop to 89 cents by Dec. 31. The premium for
one-month options granting the right to sell the Aussie versus
the dollar relative to those allowing for purchases was at 1.95
percentage points yesterday, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg on 25-delta risk reversals.  Australia faces a 35 percent chance of falling into
recession within a year, according to Macquarie Group Ltd., the
nation’s biggest investment bank, the most bearish of 13
economists surveyed this month by Bloomberg News. Saul Eslake,
chief Australia economist for  Bank of America Merrill Lynch  in
 Melbourne , projects a 20 percent chance.  Excalibur’s forecast of 75 U.S. cents is based on the RBA
lowering its benchmark to 2 percent, Harper said. The currency
would fall more in a recession, defined locally as two
consecutive quarters of contraction. Harper sees as a 30 percent
chance of that by 2015.  “If that is the case, we can see Aussie testing the lows
of 60 cents that we saw in 2008,” Harper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Narayanan Somasundaram in Sydney at 
 nsomasundara@bloomberg.net ;
Iain McDonald in Sydney at 
 imcdonald7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  