-- China Says Chipmakers Must Compete After $4 Billion Deal
-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 2013-08-28T07:41:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/mediatek-acquisition-of-mstar-approved-by-china-with-conditions.html
MediaTek Inc. (2454) ’s $4 billion purchase
of  MStar (3697)  Semiconductor Inc. was approved by  China ’s antitrust
regulator on condition the Taiwanese companies keep competing
with each other in the television-chip business for three years.  MStar shares rose by the 7 percent limit, the biggest gain
since September 2011, to close at NT$263.50 in Taipei. MediaTek
fell 0.4 percent to NT$366, while Taiwan’s benchmark Taiex index
rose 0.1 percent.  While it approved the deal, China’s anti-monopoly authority
said MStar’s liquid-crystal display television-chip business
must exist as a separate entity to ensure fair competition,
according to a statement posted yesterday by China’s Ministry of
Commerce, or Mofcom, on its website. MediaTek announced the deal
last year and extended the closing deadline three times before
Mofcom gave its approval.  The handset-chip businesses were allowed to merge and the
companies can ask the ministry to lift its conditions after
three years, according to the statement. The transaction is
valued at 24.6 billion  yuan  ($4 billion), the ministry said.  MediaTek and MStar yesterday said the transaction would
close by Feb. 1 after Mofcom signs off on a plan to implement
conditions the regulator imposed. Approval is expected within
three months from yesterday, the Hsinchu, Taiwan-based companies
said in an  English statement  to the stock exchange.  Stringent Conditions  “I can’t imagine anyone at MediaTek being all that pleased
with the Mofcom conditions as they do appear stringent,” said
Rocky Lee, the Beijing-based Asia managing partner at law firm
Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP. Break-up fees or share-price
concerns may have led the companies to stay the course, Lee
said.  The proposed acquisition gives MediaTek about 61 percent of
the global market and 80 percent of China’s market for LCD TV
main chips, enough to suppress competition, according to Mofcom.  MediaTek announced the deal in June 2012, saying it planned
first to buy 48 percent of MStar, followed by a full takeover.
China yesterday also limited MediaTek’s shareholder rights in
MStar’s independent TV main-chip business, MStar  Taiwan .  “After the merger transaction is completed, MStar will
cease to exist and be delisted, upon which MStar’s handset and
other wireless communication business operations shall be merged
into MediaTek,” MediaTek said yesterday. “MStar Semiconductor
(Taiwan) shall continue to compete independently with
MediaTek.”  The parties may apply for a full merger of TV main-chip
operations after three years, MediaTek said.  Delayed Deadlines  MediaTek, which initially said the transaction would close
by January, had delayed a closing deadline three times as the
companies awaited approval by China’s antitrust regulator. The
deal previously cleared regulators in  South Korea  and Taiwan.  “These conditions may remove some of the potential
synergies as both companies will have to retain their respective
R&D, sales and marketing teams,” Michael Liu, an analyst at KGI
Securities Co. in Taipei, said in an e-mail. “However,
independent business units could actually be better for their TV
business as each TV team would fight for market share from other
competitors.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in  Hong Kong  at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  