-- Egypt’s Premier Says Brotherhood Must Understand ’New Reality’
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y
-- 2013-08-27T10:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/egypt-s-premier-says-brotherhood-must-understand-new-reality-.html
Interim Prime Minister Hazem El-Beblawi said the Muslim Brotherhood must reconcile itself to the
changes in  Egypt , even as supporters of ousted President Mohamed Mursi called for new protests.  “It’s important for them to understand the new reality,”
El-Beblawi, who heads the government the military installed
after overthrowing Mursi on July 3, was cited as telling the al-Shorouk newspaper in an interview today. “Some parts of society
think the Muslim Brotherhood doesn’t genuinely desire
reconciliation. Ordinary citizens are afraid of reconciliation
with people who were violent and who they think lack good
intentions.”  The military-backed government has termed Brotherhood
members as terrorists, rounded up its top leadership and on Aug.
14 violently broke up the protest camps they set up in the Cairo
area to demand Mursi’s reinstatement. That raid triggered a week
of clashes that killed about 1,000 people, including dozens of
security personnel.  The daily protests the Brotherhood had called after Mursi
was removed petered out after the raid on the camps. A mass
rally the group had hoped to mount last weekend failed to
mobilize large numbers against the backdrop of the government’s
crackdown.  The Brotherhood, determined to try again, called for mass
rallies on Aug. 30 against the military.  “Look at the thousands of people killed on our side,”
Mohamed el-Beltagi, a senior group member, said in a video
statement broadcast on Al-Jazeera television late yesterday.
“Our leaders are being arrested at their houses, without even
resisting arrest. Is there any terrorist group that doesn’t
claim responsibility for any of its acts? This proves the kind
of lies and defamation we are facing”  El-Beltagi is to face trial on charges of kidnapping,
beating and torturing policemen at the protest camps.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Cairo at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  