-- Emerging Nations Join G-7 in Post-Fed Debt Plans, Storchak Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2013-08-27T22:54:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/emerging-nations-join-g-7-in-post-fed-debt-plans-storchak-says.html
Developed nations and some Group of
20 emerging countries will publish four-year debt strategies
next month, even as they brace for news on U.S. plans to curb
bond purchases,  Russia ’s deputy finance minister said.  Emerging-market countries including Russia, Mexico and
Indonesia will join the G-7 and  Australia  in agreeing on the
strategies at a September summit in St. Petersburg, Sergey Storchak said yesterday in an interview. The strategies will
include projections through 2017 for debt-to-GDP ratios, fiscal
deficits and the cyclically adjusted primary balance, which
removes the effects of economic swings on budgets, he said.  “These are target levels, a benchmark, rather than firm
commitments,” Storchak said in Moscow. “It will give greater
confidence to investors, who are carefully following the debt
stability of all financial-market participants, developed and
developing.”  Russian President  Vladimir Putin  will host leaders from 20
of the largest developed and emerging economies in his hometown
of  St. Petersburg  on Sept. 5-6. Less than two weeks later, the
U.S. Federal Reserve’s monetary policy committee will discuss
whether to reduce the scale of its $85 billion in monthly asset
purchases.  While the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has advanced 14.3
percent this year, speculation over the timing of the Fed’s
tapering has prompted a sell-off in developing-market assets,
with the MSCI Emerging Markets Index  losing  13.2 percent.  Spillover Effects  Russia will offer countries a platform to discuss the Fed’s
plans, as well as ways to ease the spillover effects on
developing nations, according to Storchak. He declined to
comment on statements this week by Fed officials indicating that
the U.S. wouldn’t be able to give  emerging markets  more detailed
guidance on their plans.  G-20 leaders will also probably sign off on a tax strategy
drafted by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development that seeks to prevent large corporations from
shifting profits to low-tax jurisdictions, according to
Storchak.  The plan, backed primarily by  Germany ,  France  and the U.K.
and also supported by Russia, won approval from a finance
ministers meeting in Moscow in July. Leaders are also expected
to approve proposals to increase automatic exchanges of tax
information, Storchak said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Olga Tanas in Moscow at 
 otanas@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  