-- Emerging Stocks Sink Most in Eight Weeks on Syria Concern
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e   a n d   M a r i a   L e v i t o v
-- 2013-08-27T21:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/emerging-stocks-decline-as-philippine-thai-equities-tumble.html
Emerging-market stocks posted the
biggest drop in eight weeks on mounting concern the U.S. will
take military action in  Syria . Dubai’s DFM General Index sank
the most in the world, while  Turkey ’s lira fell to a record.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index retreated 1.9 percent to
915.44. The DFM tumbled 7 percent, the most among 94 gauges
tracked by Bloomberg. The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index
slipped 4.7 percent as central bank Governor Erdem Basci ruled
out raising the overnight lending rate and the lira dropped past
2 per dollar for the first time.  Thai (SET) ’s SET Index entered a  bear
market  amid concern foreign outflows will accelerate, while
 India ’s rupee plunged the most since 1996.  Stocks in developing nations joined a global selloff after
U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said yesterday that President
 Barack Obama  believes there must be accountability for the
“moral obscenity” of using chemical weapons in Syria. Oil
surged to an 18-month high as Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem
said today Syria’s defenses will “surprise” the world should
the U.S. and its allies decide on military strikes.  “Concerns about Syria are definitely front and center,”
Paul Zemsky, the New York-based head of  asset allocation  for ING
Investment Management which oversees $180 billion, said by
phone. “We had a weak environment to begin with and the
geopolitical situation is just one more nail in the coffin to
cause additional uncertainty.”  Global funds have withdrawn about $44 billion from
emerging-market stock and bond funds since the end of May
through last week, according to data provider EPFR Global, a
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based firm that tracks fund flows.  Biggest Losses  All 10 groups in the MSCI Emerging Markets Index fell today
by at least 0.6 percent, led by health-care and consumer-staple
shares. The  gauge  of developing nations extended this year’s
plunge to 13 percent, compared with an 11 percent advance for a
measure of developed markets.  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund dropped 2.3 percent to $37.36. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
jumped 13 percent to 28.55.  Brazil’s  Ibovespa (IBOV)  slid 2.6 percent as PDG Realty SA led
declines in homebuilders amid mounting speculation that
Brazilian policy makers will extend a cycle of interest-rate
increases to tame inflation.  Eike Batista ’s OGX Petroleo & Gas
Participacoes SA plunged 15 percent. The real rose 0.3 percent.  Russian stocks dropped for a third day as the country’s
biggest companies, including OAO Sberbank and OAO Magnit, fell
on concern slowing economic growth will crimp profits. Bank of
America Corp. cut Russia’s GDP growth outlook today to 2.5
percent, citing weak second-quarter data.  Turkey, India  The Borsa Istanbul National 100 Index sank the most since
June 20, led by  banks . Basci said he won’t increase  interest
rates  to fight a deepening slump in the lira, and instead
promised to use “surprise” tools to reverse the trend.  India’s rupee plunged to a record low on concern the
nation’s current-account deficit will worsen, extending this
year’s tumble to 17 percent. The  S&P BSE Sensex (SENSEX)  sank 3.2 percent
as  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  plunged the most in more than four years,
dragging a measure of 13 lenders to a 19-month low.  China ’s stocks rose to a two-week high as profit growth for
industrial companies accelerated. PetroChina Co. was suspended
from  Shanghai  and Hong Kong trading pending an announcement. The
nation’s biggest energy producer said three senior managers
resigned amid a government probe, as China’s new leaders step up
their campaign against corruption.  Thai stocks retreated for a ninth day, sending the
benchmark index down more than 20 percent from this year’s high.
The Philippine Stock Exchange Index lost 4 percent to the lowest
level since June 25. The  Jakarta Composite (JCI)  index fell below the
4,000 level for the first time in a year.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose 0.09 percentage point to 355 basis
points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Levitov in London at 
 mlevitov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  