-- Merkel Blames SPD’s Schroeder for Greece’s Euro Entry
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2013-08-28T09:40:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/merkel-says-spd-s-schroeder-to-blame-for-letting-greece-in-euro.html
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
sought to pin the blame for the euro-region’s debt turmoil on
her Social Democratic predecessor, Gerhard Schroeder, saying he
should never have let  Greece  into the single currency area.  Merkel, addressing a campaign rally in the northern German
town of Rendsburg yesterday, said the debt crisis that emerged
in Greece in late 2009 and dominated her second term had been
“brewing for many years” going back to the euro’s inception.  “For example, Greece shouldn’t have been allowed into the
euro” at the time of its admission  in 2001 , Merkel told a crowd
of about 1,000 supporters. “Chancellor Schroeder accepted
Greece in and weakened the Stability Pact and both decisions
were fundamentally wrong, and one of the starting points for our
current troubles.”  Merkel, by apportioning blame for the havoc caused across
the 17-nation euro region on her SPD predecessor, may be seeking
to deflect attacks on her crisis policy leveled by  Peer Steinbrueck , her Social Democratic challenger in the Sept. 22
federal elections.  While polls suggest voters approve of her crisis handling,
Steinbrueck has ramped up his criticism in recent days that
Merkel isn’t being straight over the full costs due to German
taxpayers. Their opposing positions will be tested on Sept. 1 in
Berlin during the only televised debate of the campaign.  Latest Poll  Support for Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc was
unchanged at 41 percent in a weekly Forsa poll for today’s Stern
magazine. While her Free Democratic coalition partner dropped a
percentage point to 5 percent, their combined tally of 46
percent would be enough to for a rerun of the current coalition,
Stern said.  Steinbrueck’s SPD held at 22 percent and its Green party
ally dropped two points to 11 percent. The Left Party had 10
percent, up 2 points. Forsa polled 2,501 voters on Aug. 20-26.
The margin of error was as much as 2.5 percentage points.  Steinbrueck, trailing Merkel’s CDU/CSU bloc by 14-19
percentage points in the seven regular polls with less than four
weeks before the ballot, sought to leverage comments made on
Aug. 20 by Finance Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble that Greece will
need more aid, saying they were evidence the government’s crisis
policy isn’t working.  Marshall Plan  The SPD challenger, Merkel’s first-term finance minister,
advocates an end to Merkel’s “saving, saving, saving,” and
instead urges European structural and cohesion funds to be
concentrated on southern Europe, with the proceeds of the
proposed Financial Transaction Tax used to create a form of
“Marshall Program 2.0.”  The opposition SPD and Greens “might have attacked the
government for not being transparent enough, but they did not
signal any major objections to supporting Greece further,”
 Andreas Rees , chief German economist at UniCredit Bank AG in
Munich, said in a note today. While the details of any further
measures to help Greece have yet to be announced, “renewed
broad-based approval in the Bundestag after Sept. 22 is
likely,” he said.  Merkel, who has repeatedly backed Greek Prime Minister
Antonis Samaras and said that she wants Greece to stay in the
euro, stressed the importance of Europe to  Germany  as an export
nation and for having delivered more than 60 years of peace.  German Solidarity  “That is such a treasure, such a boon, that we can’t
place it in doubt,” she said in Rendsburg. “That’s why the
euro is more than a currency. For this reason we’ve shown
solidarity, but solidarity always linked to responsibility for
reforms in those countries that experience our solidarity.”  Merkel, Steinbrueck and Schaeuble are all back on the
campaign trail today. Her two former finance ministers will
address separate rallies in the city-state of Bremen, while the
chancellor is due to speak at 5 p.m. in the cathedral city of
Ulm in Baden-Wuerttemberg.  The probability of Merkel being able to repeat her current
coalition was raised yesterday to 55 percent from 50 percent by
Holger Schmieding, chief economist at Berenberg Bank in  London .
He lowered the possibility of a so-called grand coalition of
Merkel’s bloc with the SPD to 25 percent from 30 percent.  “Whatever the precise outcome, we believe the German
election will not change German euro policies very much,”
Schmieding said, citing 70 percent approval among voters for
Merkel’s crisis policies and backing from all the main parties.
“Germany helps its partners but sets conditions for its help.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Rendsburg, Germany via 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at   landberg@bloomberg.net  