-- MERS Wins Dismissal of Minnesota Counties’ Filings Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-08-27T00:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/mers-wins-dismissal-of-minnesota-counties-filings-suit.html
Mortgage Electronic Registration
Systems Inc. won dismissal of a lawsuit brought by  Minnesota ’s
Ramsey and Hennepin counties over claims the use of MERS to
avoid paying mortgage-assignment filing fees violates state law.  U.S. District Judge David S. Doty in  Minneapolis  threw out
the counties’ complaint today, ruling that state law doesn’t
require all transactions be recorded and only mandates what
happens if they aren’t  The applicable law says in part, “every conveyance of real
estate shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder of
the county where such real estate is situated; and every such
conveyance not so recorded shall be void as against any
subsequent purchaser in good faith and for a valuable
consideration of the same real estate, or any part
thereof, whose conveyance is first duly recorded.”  “Nothing in the statute suggests -- either through text or
punctuation -- that the phrase shall be recorded is to be
divorced from the surrounding text,” the judge said.  MERS, a unit of co-defendant Merscorp Holdings Inc., files
mortgages as the lenders’ assignees or nominees to eliminate the
need to record assignments of the notes securing those loans
when they’re sold.  Loan Servicers  A closely held company based in Reston,  Virginia , MERS
describes itself on its website as a member-based organization
comprising thousands of lenders, loan servicers, investors and
government institutions.  Ramsey County, home of Minnesota’s capital city of  St.
Paul , and Hennepin county, site of the state’s most populous
city, Minneapolis, filed the lawsuit in February on behalf of
all the state’s counties.  They alleged the failure to make those assignments public
created a public nuisance by concealing the identity of those
who holding a financial stake in a property and deprived the
counties of filing fees for each transaction of about $46.  Christian Siebott, an attorney for the counties, didn’t
immediately reply after regular business hours to voice-mail and
e-mail messages seeking comment on the court’s decision.  The case is County of Ramsey v. Merscorp Holdings Inc., 13-cv-474, U.S. District Court, District of Minnesota
(Minneapolis).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  