-- Letta’s Survival Skills Tested in Berlusconi Tax Showdown
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2013-08-28T14:39:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/letta-s-survival-skill-tested-in-tax-showdown-with-berlusconi.html
Italian Prime Minister Enrico Letta
faces a test of his political survival skills as he squares off
against  Silvio Berlusconi , the embattled former premier whose
support is keeping the coalition government afloat.  A first challenge comes in a 5 p.m. cabinet meeting in  Rome 
today, when Letta will propose reducing an unpopular real-estate
tax imposed last year as an emergency austerity measure.
Berlusconi wants to scrap the bulk of the levy, and should he
decide that Letta’s cuts don’t go far enough, he could retaliate
against the government.  Renato Brunetta, head of Berlusconi’s People of Liberty
party in the lower house of parliament,  said  before the meeting
that the tax would be cancelled for primary residences and
agricultural land this year, as the former premier had demanded.  A deal would bolster the government’s stability in the
short-term and give Letta two weeks to brace for the next
challenge -- impeachment proceedings against Berlusconi
scheduled to start on Sept. 9 that once again pit the People of
Liberty against Letta’s traditional allies in the Democratic
Party.  “There will finally be a solution,” Brunetta said in a
statement on the People of Liberty parliamentary website. “We
are working to define the coverage in a serious, responsible and
transparent way.” A spokeswoman in Letta’s office declined to
comment.  Investor Pressure  The benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB) , under pressure this week from
investors concerned that Letta, 47, won’t be able to keep his
coalition intact, erased losses after Brunetta’s comments, and
was up 1 percent at 4:34 p.m. in Milan. The Stoxx Europe 600
Index was down 0.4 percent. The difference between yields on
 Italy ’s 10-year debt and similar-maturity German bunds fell 6
basis points to 254 basis points.  The prime minister has nurtured his alliance of rival
parties since its inception in April by postponing potentially
divisive issues, like the property tax cut, and sidestepping
commentary on Berlusconi’s criminal convictions.  The property-tax debate pits Letta’s commitment to budget
discipline against Berlusconi’s demands for fiscal stimulus.
Berlusconi has called the levy unjust and vowed to fight to
cancel it for primary residences. While the government is
seeking funds to ease the tax and meet its deficit targets,
Finance Minister Fabrizio Saccomanni said on Aug. 8 that full
cancellation wasn’t the best course.  ‘First Showdown’  Deputy Prime Minister  Angelino Alfano , general secretary of
People of Liberty, has said in the last two days that a deal is
possible. Alfano said yesterday he had a “constructive
meeting” with Saccomanni.  Today’s cabinet meeting is “the first showdown,” said
Fabrizio Fiorini, chief investment officer at Aletti Gestielle
SGR SpA in Milan. “Letta has every possibility to prevent
Berlusconi from playing the victim and delaying the conflict
until Sept. 9.”  Cesare Mirabelli, a former president of Italy’s
 Constitutional Court , said Berlusconi may have the most to lose
from triggering a snap election by bringing down the government.  With a vote this year, “Berlusconi’s bullets would be
blunted,” Mirabelli said by telephone.  The former premier may be prevented from running in the
next campaign because of a December 2012 law designed to prevent
corruption in politics. People sentenced to more than two years
in prison are barred from contesting elections and serving in
parliament for at least six years, according to the law. While
Berlusconi is unlikely to spend a day in jail, due in part to
leniency guidelines, his sentence carries a four-year prison
term.  Senate Vote  The process to strip Berlusconi of his Senate seat begins
with a committee meeting in the upper house and may take weeks
or months before an eventual vote in the full chamber is called.
Letta’s  Democratic Party , the biggest force in the ruling
coalition, has said Berlusconi’s expulsion is required by the
anti-corruption law.  People of Liberty, the second-biggest party, claims the law
is unconstitutional and shouldn’t be applied to Berlusconi,
whose conviction stems from tax fraud in 2002 and 2003.  The People of Liberty party is pressuring parliament to
request a Constitutional Court opinion on the matter, which
would freeze the effects of the law. It would then take the
court “up to six months” to decide whether to rule on the
request, Mirabelli said. Parliament could also amend the law to
exclude its retroactive application, Mirabelli said.  Tax-Fraud Conviction  “That would save Berlusconi from losing his Senate seat,
but ultimately the public-office ban, to be determined by the
appeals court, would kick in,” Mirabelli said. Italy’s top
court on Aug. 1 upheld Berlusconi’s  tax-fraud  conviction and
asked the appeals court to review a five-year public office ban
imposed by the original ruling. The appeals court could rule as
early as November, while Berlusconi would have the right to a
last appeal to the highest court, which would take “another
three or four months,” Mirabelli said.  Berlusconi is also appealing convictions in separate
criminal cases for illegal use of wiretaps, abuse of power and
engaging a minor in prostitution. He has denied all charges.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in Rome at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  