-- Lew Reiterates No Negotiations With Congress on Debt Limit
-- B y   I a n   K a t z   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2013-08-27T12:38:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/lew-reiterates-no-negotiations-with-congress-on-debt-limit.html
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew
reiterated that the Obama administration won’t negotiate over
the debt limit, saying he thinks lawmakers understand the need
to preserve the U.S.’s “rock-solid” pledge to meet its
commitments.  “We’re not going to be negotiating over the debt limit,”
Lew told CNBC today. “Congress has already authorized funding,
committed us to make expenditures. We’re now in the place where
the only question is will we pay the bills that the United
States has incurred.”  Lew yesterday told Congress in a letter that the U.S. will
hit the $16.7 trillion debt ceiling in mid-October and urged
lawmakers to raise the limit as soon as possible. Today he said
the economy, while facing some restraints, has been growing at
about a 2 percent pace.  “Without the headwinds of additional federal cuts, the
economy should pick up a notch again,” Lew said today. “These
kinds of manufactured crises, last-minute decisions that put the
country on pins and needles, and people make economic decisions
in a state of uncertainty -- we have some control over that, and
I hope that Congress will act quickly to settle markets down so
that they don’t get worried about these issues.”  The Treasury Department had previously said it probably
will be able to finance government operations by using special
accounting measures until after Congress returns Sept. 9 from
its recess. Lew said Aug. 22 that a failure by Congress to raise
the debt limit would “have disastrous effects for our nation”
and could put at risk payments to Social Security recipients and
veterans.  October Deadline  The Bipartisan Policy Center, a nonprofit research group in
 Washington , has estimated that the U.S. will reach the point
where it is unable to pay its bills sometime between mid-October
and mid-November unless Congress raises the ceiling.  House Speaker John Boehner said last month Republicans
wouldn’t increase the debt ceiling “without real cuts in
spending” that would achieve a further reduction in the
deficit.  Lew also said there is room for negotiation on the budget.  “We’ve pressed very hard for the kinds of agreements that
would do both the spending reform, entitlement reform, and tax
reform,” he said. “We’ve hit a bit of an obstacle with the
Congress because there hasn’t been an openness to doing the
balance with the tax reform. The president has tried to reach
out in every way that is possible to make it clear that he is
looking for the sensible, common middle ground.”  Asked if there was any circumstance under which the
administration would accept a delay or a defunding of parts of
the health-care law known as Obamacare as part of a deal on
extending funding for the government, Lew said “no.”  Lew declined to comment on whom President  Barack Obama 
might nominate to replace Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke and said the president will announce his choice when
he’s “ready.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in Washington at 
 jsmialek1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  