-- Mexico Peso Falls to Two-Month Low as Syria Adds to Fed Concern
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-08-27T14:57:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/mexico-peso-falls-to-two-month-low-as-syria-adds-to-fed-concern.html
Mexico’s peso fell to a two-month
low as investors globally pared demand for higher-yielding
assets amid concern over possible military action in  Syria  and a
reduction in U.S. stimulus.  The currency fell 1.2 percent to 13.35 per  U.S. dollar  at
9:29 a.m. in Mexico City, leading declines today among the
dollar’s 16 most-traded counterparts after tumbling 1.7 percent
yesterday. Yields on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024
rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 6.3 percent
today, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Most major emerging-market currencies fell today after
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said the U.S. will hold Syria’s
government accountable for using chemical weapons, fanning
concern unrest may disrupt Middle East oil supplies. Yesterday,
the peso plunged after Federal Reserve policy makers indicated
they won’t take into account the fallout in  emerging markets  as
they pare back U.S. monetary stimulus.  “Investors are still very nervous and skittish and
liquidity is light,”  Clyde Wardle , a strategist at HSBC
Holdings Plc, said in a telephone interview from New York. “It
seems to be a number of items instead of one dominating theme.”  Wardle said that teacher demonstrations in Mexico, which
have limited access to major roads in the capital over the past
week, sparked concern that there may be protests against
proposals to open up the country’s energy industry to more
private investment. Lawmakers are poised to start debating the
energy bills next month. The teachers are protesting a law that
would require them to undergo standardized evaluations.  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark bonds touched a record low on
May 9 in part on expectations that President Enrique Pena Nieto
will succeed in passing legal reforms to boost growth. Since
then they have surged 1.82 percentage points on speculation the
Fed will trim its $85 billion in monthly bond purchases as U.S.
job growth improves.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  Mexico  City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  