-- Charoen’s F&N to Spin Off Property Unit in Singapore Listing
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h   a n d   P o o j a   T h a k u r
-- 2013-08-27T10:06:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/f-n-said-to-plan-splitting-property-operations-from-beverages.html
Fraser & Neave Ltd. (FNN) , controlled by
Thailand’s richest man, said it plans to spin off its property
business from operations including beverages and publishing
through a  Singapore  listing at the end of the year.  The 130-year-old conglomerate will offer to its
shareholders two shares of the property company Frasers
Centrepoint Ltd. for every F&N stock held, according to a
company statement handed out at a Singapore briefing today.  F&N is spinning off a division with S$9 billion ($7
billion) of  assets  as of June, allowing both companies to focus
on their separate expansion strategies. The move follows the
S$13.8 billion takeover by Thai billionaire  Charoen Sirivadhanabhakdi , whose company will vote in favor of the
transaction, according to the statement.  “It’s a good move because historically, there has been a
holding company discount on the group because of the combined
businesses of property and non-property,” Goh Han Peng, an
analyst at DMG & Partners Securities Pte in Singapore, said.
“By separating them, the individual businesses can be valued
separately and the food and beverage can obtain the full
valuation that they deserve.”  F&N shares  have fallen 43 percent this year after a one-time distribution to shareholders following the sale of its
brewery stake. It last traded at S$5.49 before the trading halt
for the announcement.  Independent Strategies  The listing of the property arm is expected in November or
December, according to the statement, and the two companies will
be traded separately on the Singapore exchange.  “The listing will enhance Frasers Centrepoint’s profile
and enable us to pursue our growth strategies independently,”
Lim Ee Seng, chief executive officer of Frasers Centrepoint,
said in the statement. He said at a press briefing today he
expects to work in partnerships with Charoen’s TCC group and is
in talks with them and looking at some of their hotels outside
of  Thailand .  The proposal also allows F&N to focus on its food and
beverage business, while enhancing the public image of Frasers
Centrepoint, F&N Chief Financial Officer Hui Choon Kit said at a
press conference today. He said it’s an appropriate time for the
property unit to be separated because of its size.  Hospitality Trust  F&N will be on the look out for acquisitions for food and
beverage companies, Hui said.  The property company is also considering plans for a
hospitality trust, according to the statement. F&N said earlier
this month it’s considering setting up a real estate investment
trust made up of its hospitality assets. It has received
proposals from investment banks in relation to the IPO, though
considerations are at a preliminary stage, F&N said.  Frasers Centrepoint has a S$2.4 billion pipeline of
commercial and retail properties as well as S$1.65 billion worth
of hospitality assets that could be injected into its property
trusts, Lim said, adding that Charoen is keen to build scalable
businesses for the group.  Charoen, who acquired F&N through his company  Thai Beverage
Pcl (THBEV) , has a net worth of $7.2 billion, according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires Index.  DBS Group Holdings Ltd.,  United Overseas Bank Ltd. (UOB)  and
Morgan Stanley are financial advisers for the transaction.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Pooja Thakur in Singapore at 
 pthakur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  