-- FCC Works on Impasse Between CBS and Time Warner Cable
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/fcc-working-to-end-impasse-between-cbs-and-time-warner.html
The U.S. Federal Communications
Commission says it’s working to resolve a fee dispute that has
kept  CBS Corp. (CBS)  programming off  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  systems
serving more than 3 million viewers since Aug. 2.  “The commission is engaged at the highest levels with the
respective parties and working to bring the impasse to an end,”
Justin Cole, an agency spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement
yesterday. “We urge all parties to resolve this matter as
quickly as possible so consumers can access the programming they
rely on and are paying for.”  The statement didn’t offer details. The FCC’s acting
chairwoman, Mignon Clyburn, has said the agency lacks power to
intervene.  At an Aug. 9 news conference, Clyburn said she was “really
distressed” at the blackout and was “ready to consider
appropriate action.”  Time Warner Cable, the second-largest U.S. cable provider,
began blacking out CBS in cities including  New York ,  Los Angeles 
and  Dallas  after talks about payments to the broadcaster for its
programming came to an impasse. The duration of the blackout
surpasses the two-week shutdown of Fox on  Cablevision Systems
Corp. (CVC) , a similar clash in 2010.  The  National Football League , the most popular sports
league in the U.S.,  begins  its season Sept. 5, with the first
CBS games airing Sept. 8 -- a date looming over the negotiations
with Time Warner Cable.  The cable operator’s top executives had two conversations
with the FCC to update the commission on the status of the
negotiations in the last seven days, including one on Aug. 26,
Susan Leepson, a company spokeswoman, said in an interview.  Dana McClintock, a spokesman for New York-based CBS,
declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net  or
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  