-- Fed’s Williams Says Effective Communication to Aid Next Step
-- B y   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-08-27T17:15:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/fed-s-williams-says-effective-communication-to-aid-next-steps.html
Federal  Reserve Bank  of San
Francisco President  John Williams , who has never dissented from
a policy decision, said clear communication will be needed as
policy makers try to wind down stimulus in the U.S.  The Fed must “communicate very effectively with other
central banks around the world what our plans are so that
there’s a good understanding of how policy in the U.S. is likely
to proceed,” Williams, who doesn’t hold a vote on policy this
year, said today on a panel in Gothenburg,  Sweden . “That will
help avoid at least somewhat the risks of big market turmoil.”  William’s comments echoed those by International Monetary
Fund Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  and Bank of Mexico
Governor Agustin Carstens last week at the annual Fed conference
in  Jackson Hole , Wyoming, where they said U.S. policy makers
should spell out their intentions better to safeguard global
economic growth and reduce market volatility.  Emerging-market stocks worldwide have lost  $1 trillion  in
market value since May, when Chairman Ben S. Bernanke testified
to Congress that the Fed “could take a step down” in its bond
purchases. Such buying helped channel $3.9 trillion in capital
flows to developing nations in the past four years.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index of companies in 21
developing nations tumbled  2.7 percent  last week for the
steepest retreat in two months.  Turkey ’s  lira  and India’s rupee
weakened to records today against the dollar.  ‘Bumpy Path’  “There’s no question that there are a lot of challenges
ahead in executing the normalization,” Williams said today.
“The experience of the last few months with the bumpy path of
 interest rates  and flows across the globe can show that this may
not always be an easy process.”  Other Fed presidents speaking at Jackson Hole rebuffed
international calls to take the threat of fallout in emerging
markets into account when tapering U.S. monetary stimulus.  The Fed is a “legal creature of Congress” with a mandate
to concern itself only with the U.S. interest, Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart  told Bloomberg Television at the conference last week.  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis regional Fed
bank, said in a Bloomberg Radio interview that the domestic
economy is the Fed’s primary policy objective and that the
central bank won’t “make policy based on emerging-market
volatility alone,” he said. Bullard votes on policy this year
while Lockhart doesn’t until 2015.  Rising Volatility  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund, which tracks  820 companies  from  Malaysia  to  Poland  to
Brazil, has slumped 16 percent this year  while  the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index has advanced 15 percent. The Chicago Board
Options Exchange Emerging Markets Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the ETF and expectations of price swings,
jumped to a seven-week intraday high of 28.05 today.  Williams repeated that the decisions to slow and end
quantitative easing will depend on how data show the world’s
largest economy progressing, and that the Fed must “focus on
our goals of getting the economy back to maximum employment,
keeping inflation near 2 percent,” he said today.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note hit a two-year high of  2.93 percent  last week on speculation the  Federal
Open Market Committee  will soon begin tapering $85 billion in
monthly bond buying. Policy makers, scheduled to meet Sept.
17-18, have pledged to keep buying securities until the job
market improves substantially.  ‘Broadly Comfortable’  Minutes of the FOMC’s July 30-31 meeting released last week
show policy makers were “broadly comfortable” with Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke ’s plan to reduce purchases this year if the
economy strengthens, with a few saying a reduction may be needed
soon.  Williams spoke at the University of Gothenburg at an annual
gathering of the European Economic Association and the
Econometric Society. European Central Bank Executive Board
member Benoit Coeure and Lars Svensson, a former deputy governor
at Sweden’s Riksbank, also spoke on the  panel , titled
“Challenges For  Monetary Policy : Views From The Trenches.”  Williams said last week he is keeping an “open mind”
about whether the central bank should reduce the pace of asset
purchases at next month’s meeting.  “If the data continue to progress as we’ve seen, then I do
agree that we should edge down or taper our purchases later this
year,” Williams said in a Bloomberg Television interview Aug.
23 at the Fed meeting of central bankers and economists.  Jobs Growth  Payroll growth during the past six months has averaged
200,000, compared with a 141,000 average in the six months
before September, when the FOMC announced a third round of bond
buying. Also, jobless claims fell to  320,000 (INJCJC)  in the week ended
Aug. 10, the least since October 2007.  The  U.S. economy  grew at a 1.7 percent annualized rate in
the second quarter after a 1.1 percent gain the prior three
months, Commerce Department data show. That’s below the 2.2
percent average since the recession ended June 2009.  U.S. economic growth will probably speed up in the second
half of 2013, climbing 2.3 percent this quarter and 2.6 percent
in the fourth quarter, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg survey of economists from Aug. 2 until Aug. 6.  The yield on the 10-year Treasury note fell today six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.73 percent at 1:14 p.m.
in  New York , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Williams, 51, has worked in the Fed system since 1994. He
was the reserve bank’s research director before succeeding  Janet Yellen  as president in 2011, when she became the board’s vice
chairman.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Johan Carlstrom in Stockholm at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in Washington at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  