-- Fed Regional Directors Saw ‘Modest to Moderate’ Economic Growth
-- B y   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 2013-08-27T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/fed-regional-directors-saw-modest-to-moderate-economic-growth.html
Directors at the  Federal Reserve ’s
district banks said last month the U.S. expansion continued at a
“modest to moderate” pace amid strength in housing and autos,
while risks remained from federal budget reductions and rising
interest rates.  “Most directors noted strengthening in the housing and
auto sectors, but their comments on manufacturing were mixed,”
according to minutes released today in Washington summarizing
the discussions. “Directors continued to see downside risks to
the outlook stemming from ongoing fiscal constraints, the
elevated  unemployment rate , and uncertainty about employers’
health-care costs.”  Employment gains continued even as the  jobless rate  was
elevated, the directors said. Inflation expectations remained
stable, according to the record of the gathering. Some directors
reported that higher long-term  interest rates  had “noticeably
lowered residential mortgage refinancings and noted the possible
effect of higher rates on economic activity more generally,”
the minutes show.  The policy-setting  Federal Open Market Committee  will
debate at its next meeting Sept. 17-18 whether to slow its $85
billion monthly pace of asset purchases, which it has pledged to
maintain until the labor market improves substantially. The Fed
has kept the main  interest rate  near zero since December 2008.  The board made no change to the  discount rate , which has
been at 0.75 percent since February 2010. Directors at the
Philadelphia, Dallas and Kansas City district banks requested a
quarter percentage-point increase in the rate to 1 percent. The
other nine reserve banks voted to keep the rate unchanged.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Kearns in  Washington  at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  