-- Fonterra Raises Milk Payout Forecast for Second Time in a Month
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-08-27T03:49:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/fonterra-raises-milk-payout-forecast-for-second-time-in-a-month.html
Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the
New Zealand dairy exporter embroiled in a contamination scare,
raised its forecast payment to farmer suppliers for the second
time in a month.  Farmers will receive NZ$7.80 ($6.10) a kilogram of milk
solids in the year through May 31, 2014, Auckland-based Fonterra
said today in a statement. That compares with a July 31 estimate
of NZ$7.50 and last year’s distribution of NZ$5.80. Fonterra has
also forecast a 2013-14 dividend of 32 cents a share, taking the
new projected payout to NZ$8.12.  “Current market views support commodity prices remaining
at historically high levels longer than previously forecast,”
Chairman  John Wilson  said in the statement.  Fonterra, the world’s biggest dairy exporter, said earlier
this month that a whey protein shipped to  China  and used in the
manufacture of baby formula may have been contaminated with a
botulism-causing bacteria. The incident prompted product recalls
across  Asia  and threatened New Zealand’s trade ties with China,
its biggest dairy customer.  “Although there has been some fallout from the whey
contamination scare, it has not been enough to have a noticeable
impact on prices,”  Nick Tuffley , chief economist at ASB Bank
Ltd. in Auckland, said in an e-mailed note. “Trade disruption
has also been minor to date.”  Fonterra achieved record sales and revenue from two
GlobalDairyTrade auctions this month, showing “continued
confidence in our products and strong demand from many of our
key markets,” Chief Executive Officer Theo Spierings said on
Aug. 23.  Rising farm incomes and higher returns from exports will
add to growth in  New Zealand ’s NZ$211 billion economy. Payments
to Fonterra’s 10,500 farmer suppliers may also be boosted by the
New Zealand dollar’s 9 percent slide against the greenback since
April 11.  The kiwi dollar rose slightly after Fonterra’s
announcement. It bought 78.24 U.S. cents at 3:25 p.m. in
Wellington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 Mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  