-- GE Sees Digital Energy Sales Doubling on China XD Partnership
-- B y   T i m   C a t t s
-- 2013-08-27T16:11:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/ge-sees-digital-energy-sales-doubling-on-china-xd-partnership.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  said a
partnership with  China XD Electric Co. (601179)  will help double sales of
power transmission products and services in its digital energy
business to $4 billion annually in the next decade.  GE’s 3.38 billion  yuan  ($552.2 million) purchase of a 15
percent stake in XD Electric, a power equipment maker, was
completed today, 15 months after it was announced, according to
a statement. GE and China XD also agreed to form a joint venture
to sell grid-automation equipment in China, the companies said.  Jeffrey Immelt , chief executive officer of Fairfield,
Connecticut-based GE, has pledged to expand the share of the
company’s profit derived from industrial businesses while
simultaneously pursuing expansion in  emerging markets  such as
China. Aging transmission infrastructure in the U.S. and Europe
also presents opportunities for the partners, according to Bob
Turko, general manager of GE’s power transmission business.  “This deal aligns really well with strong growth dynamics
we’re seeing in this segment,” Turko said in a telephone
interview. “This is a big market segment and it helps us build
up a bigger base for our industrial businesses.”  Parent China XD Group, which manufacturers high-voltage
transformers, circuit breakers and capacitors, was founded in
1959 and has more than 70 subsidiaries and 22,000 employees,
according to its website. It exports products and technologies
to more than 50 countries including  Germany , the U.S. and
Singapore, the website shows.  Regulatory Approval  In addition to high-voltage transmission equipment, GE’s
digital energy business sells automation, monitoring and
diagnostic equipment to utilities and engineering firms,
according to its website.  The investment, announced in May 2012, was delayed as the
companies sought approval from Chinese regulators, Turko said.  “The regulatory approvals took a little bit longer than we
thought but we’ve been building a business in the meantime,”
Turko said. “We’ve started to build strong momentum and in fact
we’ve taken the first couple of orders from U.S. and European
utilities.”  Turko declined to comment on whether Xi’an-based China XD
would buy GE’s Prolec joint venture with Mexico’s Xignux SA.
Three people with knowledge of the situation said in May the
companies were in talks over such a transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Catts in  New York  at 
 tcatts1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  