-- German Stocks Drop Amid Growing Tension in Syria
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2013-08-27T07:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/german-stocks-drop-amid-growing-tension-in-syria.html
German stocks  declined, after three
days of gains, as U.S. President Barack Obama’s administration
vowed to hold Syria’s government accountable for chemical-weapon
attacks.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) , the country’s largest steelmaker, lost 2.3
percent after Nomura Holdings Inc. downgraded its recommendation
on the shares.  Gerry Weber International AG (GWI1) , a German clothier,
rose 1.8 percent after Bank of America Corp. upgraded its rating
on the stock.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 0.5 percent to 8,394.87 at 9:39 a.m. in
Frankfurt. The benchmark gauge has traded within a 2.3 percent
range since July 17 as volumes fell and investors awaited more
economic reports to assess the strength of the economy. The
broader HDAX Index also slipped 0.5 percent today.  U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry yesterday denounced an
attack last week on a Damascus suburb as a “cowardly crime”
requiring a response against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s
regime. President  Barack Obama  “believes there must be
accountability for those who would use the world’s most heinous
weapons against the world’s most vulnerable people.”  German business confidence probably rose to the highest
level in six months in August after the euro area, the nation’s
biggest trading partner, emerged from its longest-ever
recession.  The Ifo institute’s  business climate index , based on a
survey of 7,000 executives, climbed to 107 from 106.2 in July,
according to the median of 42 forecasts in a Bloomberg News
survey. That would be the fourth straight increase and the
highest reading since February. Measures of current conditions
and expectations also gained, the survey shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in  Frankfurt  at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  