-- Germany’s PHW Said to Weigh Sale of Animal-Health Unit
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   K i e l   P o r t e r   a n d   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-08-27T16:09:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/germany-s-phw-said-to-weigh-sale-of-animal-health-unit.html
PHW Group ,  Germany ’s biggest poultry
breeder and owner of the Wiesenhof food brand, is considering a
sale of its Lohmann Animal Health GmbH business, according to
people familiar with the process.  The family-owned company hired Commerzbank AG to manage a
potential disposal of avian-vaccine and feed-additive maker
Lohmann Animal Health, based in Cuxhaven, in the second half,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the plan
is private.  The sale of the unit would allow PHW to focus on its animal
nutrition unit and Wiesenhof poultry food business, which
accounts for almost every second chicken slaughtered in Germany,
according to its  website . Lohmann Animal Health’s sales rose 4.9
percent to 255.7 million euros ($342 million) in fiscal 2012,
boosted by demand for its offerings, such as the world’s first
oral vaccine against chicken infectious anaemia.  PHW declined to comment on market speculation, its outside
public-relations firm Engel & Zimmermann said in an e-mailed
statement. Commerzbank also declined to comment.  Lohmann Animal Health, which has more than 500 employees in
over 30 countries, may attract drugmakers, private-equity firms
and chemical companies.  While Pfizer Inc. opted to spin off its animal-health
division, other drugmakers including Switzerland’s  Novartis AG (NOVN) 
and Indianapolis-based  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY)  are looking to make
acquisitions to expand their offerings for animals.  Eli Lilly Chief Executive Officer  John Lechleiter  said July
24 that his company will be “aggressive” in building a multi-billion-dollar operation in this segment. Novartis Chairman
Joerg Reinhardt said Aug. 13 that a $10 billion purchase is
possible as the drugmaker reviews its business, including units
focused on animal health and vaccines.  Minneapolis-based chemical company Cargill Inc. acquired
animal-nutrition supplier Provimi for about $2 billion in 2011
from Permira Advisers LLP. Germany’s Evonik Industries AG is
making amino acids used in animal feed. Montagu Private Equity
purchased the animal-health unit of LEO Pharma A/S of Denmark.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in London at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Kiel Porter in London at 
 kporter17@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  