-- Goldman Picks Reliance as Bharti Favored in Top 10: India Credit
-- B y   D a v i d   Y o n g ,   A n o o p   A g r a w a l   a n d   Y u s u k e   M i y a z a w a
-- 2013-08-28T05:18:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/goldman-picks-reliance-as-bharti-favored-in-top-10-india-credit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended
 India ’s  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL)  and  Bharti Airtel Ltd. (BHARTI)  among
its 22 most-favored bonds in Asia, saying it’s time to take
advantage of the widest spreads in almost a year.  The investment bank picked Reliance’s 5.4 percent February
2022 notes as one of 12 investment-grade buys while Bharti’s
5.125 percent March 2023 debentures were added to its top 10
 junk bonds , analysts led by Hong Kong-based Kenneth Ho said in
an Aug. 26 report. The lists include 15 Chinese companies.  Indian dollar-denominated bond yields surged to a 19-month
high of  6.52 percent  on Aug. 22 as the rupee plunged to a record
low on  Federal Reserve  plans to pare stimulus. Kokusai Asset
Management Co. and Aletti Gestielle Sgr SpA say those levels may
entice buyers. The  spread  investors demand to hold Indian
securities has widened by 103 basis points to 394 since May 20,
JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes show. Only Indonesian debt premium
has increased more in  Asia .  “Top-ranked companies in their sectors will attract
investors because primarily, people are still willing to view
the fundamentals positively,” said Milan-based Walter Rossini,
who oversees $200 million of Indian funds at Aletti Gestielle.
“Spreads have widened mostly due to external factors and it’s
likely they’ll correct soon.”  Rupee Plunge  Markets in India and  Indonesia  -- the two countries with
the biggest external funding needs in Asia -- sold off more than
their regional peers this year, New York-based Goldman Sachs
said in its report, and longer-dated notes in the former now
look more attractive.  Quantitative-easing tapering “will be more benign than the
market is pricing, largely because we expect the Fed to
compensate by putting more emphasis on forward guidance,” New
York-based Goldman Sachs’ Ho said in the report. “Since July,
five-year India investment-grade has widened 40 to 50 basis
points compared with the 10-year segment of the curve, which has
widened more than 100 basis points.”  The  Reserve Bank  of India engineered a cash crunch in
Asia’s third-largest economy last month in an attempt to shore
up the rupee. The currency’s 20 percent slump this year
threatens to increase import costs and fuel inflation in a
nation that buys almost 80 percent of the oil it uses abroad.  India’s Trilemma  Gross domestic product that expanded at the slowest pace in
a decade, inflation that’s among the fastest in the world and an
unprecedented current-account deficit have created an economic
trilemma for India which has prompted global funds to  pull  some
$10.1 billion from the country since May 21. The rupee touched
an all-time low of 68.7550 per dollar today.  “The situation may change based on investor sentiment,”
said Kenichi Kurahashi, a Tokyo-based  fund manager  at Kokusai
Asset Management, which manages about $38 billion. Indian assets
“are looking attractive due to the wider spreads and higher
yields” triggered by Fed tapering concerns.  Reliance Industries, based in  Mumbai , operates the world’s
biggest oil-refinery complex. Billionaire Chairman  Mukesh Ambani 
said in June he plans to spend 1.5 trillion rupees ($22 billion)
over the next three years to expand businesses ranging from
natural gas to telecommunications.  Its $1.5 billion of 5.4 percent notes due 2022 have lost
3.7 percent this quarter through yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Yields climbed 69 basis points, or 0.69
percentage point, to 5.81 percent over the same period.  Bharti Return  Bharti Airtel, India’s biggest mobile-phone operator with
an almost one-third market share, raised $1.5 billion in March
selling its first dollar bonds since 2004, Bloomberg-compiled
data show. The 2023 securities have lost 6.8 percent this
quarter, as yields surged 114 basis points to 7.51 percent.  An index tracking 65 Indian dollar-denominated corporate
bonds fell 2.4 percent over the same period, Bank of America
Merrill Lynch data show. Ten-year Treasury notes dropped 1.8
percent as  yields  rose to 2.71 percent from 2.49 percent.  Goldman Sachs removed bonds due in 2016 sold by Rural
Electrification Corp.,  Canara Bank  and Syndicate Bank, and those
due in 2017 sold by Axis Bank Ltd., from its most-favored list
in this week’s report because of their shorter tenors.  Morgan Stanley this month reduced Indian bank debt to
underweight, saying faltering economic growth will increase
delinquent loans. It predicts impaired loans may reach 12
percent of the total by March 2015. India hasn’t had a ratio of
more than 10 percent since 2002, World Bank  data  show.  The prospect of an indecisive election in 2014 means
political rivalry may also delay steps needed to restore
confidence, investors including Legg Mason Global Asset
Management and Landesbank Berlin Investment have said.  Credit Risk  No party has won an outright majority in India’s parliament
since 1989, requiring coalitions of parties representing
different regions and religious castes to strike deals with each
other to stay in power.  India’s creditworthiness weakened this quarter. The cost to
insure the notes of  State Bank  of India, a proxy for the
sovereign, against non-payment for five years climbed 96 basis
points since June 30 to 371 basis points in  New York  yesterday,
CMA data show. The yield on the 7.16 percent government bonds
due May 2023 rose 13 basis points to 8.99 percent as of 10:46
a.m. in Mumbai. It has risen by 154 basis points this quarter,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Efforts by the central bank to calm the currency and bond
markets have helped improve sentiment, Franklin Templeton
Investments’ India unit said in an Aug. 23 report. Yields on
longer-dated bonds won’t spike much further and investors with a
“longer-investment horizon” can look to benefit, it said.  Foreign investors plowed $131 million back into Indian debt
on Aug. 26, only the fourth time they were net buyers since
July, official data show.  “With spreads widening, investors are now cherry
picking,” said Hemant Dharnidharka, Bangalore-based head of
credit research at SJS Markets Ltd. His buy recommendations
include 2023 notes in Bharti Airtel and Oil & Natural Gas Corp.
“Credit fundamentals are good and at these yields, those names
are going to have new money flowing into them.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Yong in Singapore at 
 dyong@bloomberg.net ;
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net ;
Yusuke Miyazawa in Tokyo at 
 ymiyazawa3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katrina Nicholas at   knicholas2@bloomberg.net  