-- Gordhan Says Weak Rand Benefiting South African Exporters
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-08-28T09:02:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/gordhan-says-rand-boosts-south-africa-s-competitiveness.html
The rand’s almost 20 percent plunge
against the dollar this year is already benefiting some South
African exporters, improving the competitiveness of the economy,
Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  said.  “Some say they are in a better position to export now than
they used to be and they have got better order books than
before,” Gordhan said in an interview at a mining conference in
Johannesburg yesterday. “Some are taking advantage of the
weaker rand.”  The currency’s depreciation, the most against the dollar
this year among the 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg,
may help to ease pressure on an economy that’s set to expand at
its slowest pace since a 2009 recession. At the same time it’s
adding to pressure on  inflation , which accelerated to 6.3
percent in July to exceed the Reserve Bank’s 3 percent to 6
percent target band for the first time in 15 months.  With a weaker rand boosting import costs, including
gasoline prices, “how you keep the balance is part of the
difficult task that we have,” Gordhan said.  South  Africa  imports about 70 percent of its crude oil
needs, with the rest of its requirements met with gasoline and
diesel made from locally mined coal.  The rand gained 0.1 percent to 10.3820 against the dollar
as of 10:12 a.m. in Johannesburg.  Strike Disruptions  The Pretoria-based Reserve Bank has kept its  benchmark
repurchase rate  at 5 percent for more than a year as it juggles
faster inflation and sluggish economic growth. Violent strikes
in the mining industry and a decline in export demand from
Europe limited growth in Africa’s largest economy to 2.5 percent
last year. The bank is forecasting expansion of 2 percent in
2013.  While  gross domestic product  expanded an annualized 3
percent in the second quarter, according to data published by
the statistics agency yesterday, output may come under pressure
amid a wave of strikes that began this month.  Carmakers, including Toyota Motor Corp. and  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,
have idled plants since Aug. 19 as about 30,000 workers downed
tools to demand higher pay. The National Union of Mineworkers
has rejected offers from gold producers and may decide on a
strike as soon as Aug. 31.  “Strikes are not the end of the world,” Gordhan said
yesterday. “Every part of the world has strikes. I do not think
we should overplay it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  