-- Li Ka-Shing-Backed CEF Seeking to Make Gold Investments
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2013-08-27T05:45:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/li-ka-shing-backed-cef-holdings-seeking-to-make-gold-investments.html
CEF Holdings Ltd., a venture between
 Li Ka-shing ’s flagship company and  Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce , is looking to invest in gold mining companies after a
slump in prices creates buying opportunities.  “Long term, gold is a good place to be,” CEF Chief
Executive Officer Warren Gilman, 53, said in an interview in
Hong Kong.  Cheung Kong Holdings Ltd. (1) , controlled by Li, Asia’s
richest man, and CIBC each own 50 percent of CEF. The venture
focuses on investing in resources companies globally.  Bullion is heading for its first annual decline since 2000
and has slumped 27 percent from a record $1,921.15 an ounce in
September 2011. The plunge prompted investors  John Paulson  and
 George Soros  to sell gold as mining companies cut jobs and the
valuation of their mines.  “I was a little uncomfortable making investment in gold at
$1,700 and $1,800 an ounce,” Gilman said yesterday. “The
correction we’ve had this year from my perspective is great
because we can hopefully fulfill that objective of making some
gold investments.”  CEF recently made debt investments in Uranium Energy Corp.
and Avanti Mining Inc., which is developing a molybdenum mine in
 Canada . Gilman declined to comment about CEF’s size or cash
available for investments.  Li, 85, has an estimated net worth of $27 billion,
according to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index. CEF Holdings was
established in 1974 by  Cheung Kong  and CIBC, Gilman said.  Gold Price  Gold for immediate delivery fell 0.4 percent to $1,399.33
an ounce as at 12:46 p.m. Singapore time. The metal is down 16
percent this year as the dollar strengthened and amid concern
that the  Federal Reserve  will begin cutting back its stimulus
measures.  Prices may stay between $1,000 an ounce and $1,400 an ounce
for “a couple of years and that’s predominantly because gold
has to get used to, and it still seems to be adjusting, to the
taper and rising real  interest rates  globally,” Gilman said. He
previously co-founded CIBC’s global mining group and was later
vice chairman of the bank’s  CIBC World Markets .  Prices will average $1,300 an ounce in the fourth quarter,
the median of 17 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg shows.
Bank of America Corp. is the most bullish, predicting a fourth-quarter average of $1,495 an ounce, and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
anticipates rising averages in every quarter through the end of
next year.  Gold Rallies  Gold has rallied 13 percent since the end of June as lower
prices boosted demand, particularly in  Asia , with prices
averaging $1,313.58 an ounce. Bullion will rebound as spending
cuts by producers and the closure of costly operations brings
better balance to supply and demand, the producer-funded World
Gold Council said this month.  “It’s tougher and tougher to find economic gold deposits
in safe jurisdictions,” Gilman said. “You see mine supply
struggling to keep up with demand long term. That’s a great
recipe for higher prices in the longer term.”  Gold mining companies have announced at least $26 billion
of writedowns in recent months and are seeking to sell assets
after prices declined.  Gold Fields Ltd. last week agreed to pay $300 million for
three Barrick Gold Corp. mines in Australia. Norton Gold Fields
Ltd., the Australian producer controlled by China’s Zijin Mining
Group Co., said this month it’s seeking further acquisition
targets as falling prices cut the value of mines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  