-- Libya Oil Output Tumbles as Protests Spread Westward
-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 2013-08-27T15:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/libya-oil-output-tumbles-as-protests-spread-westward.html
(Corrects to say Awami works at oil ministry in first,
second paragraphs.)  Libyan oil production fell to one-eighth of its capacity as protests over pay and allegations of
corruption spread to fields operated by  Eni SpA (ENI)  and  Repsol SA (REP) ,
executives at the state oil company and oil ministry said.  Protesters yesterday stopped production at Repsol-operated
Sharara and Eni-operated El Feel, or Elephant, fields in western
Libya, according to the ministry’s Director of Measurement
Ibrahim Al Awami. Output from the North African nation slumped
to about 200,000 barrels a day, compared with 640,000 in August
and its optimal capacity of 1.6 million, National Oil Corp.
Chairman Nuri Berruien said today in an interview from Tripoli.  “It may be more just people jumping on the band-wagon, as
they see the significant impact of such action,” said Michael Barry, an analyst at Facts Global Energy in  London . “But even
if it is more spontaneous than planned, there is a worrying
momentum developing in eastern areas, which the Tripoli
government may be unable to prevent.”  The protests were previously entrenched in the central and
eastern regions that produce and export the majority of Libya’s
crude, affecting companies such as Royal Dutch Shell Plc,
Marathon Oil Corp., Hess Corp. and ConocoPhillips, according to
a Bloomberg Industries analysis. Brent crude jumped to the
highest level in six months today to trade at about $113.50 a
barrel on news of the production cuts and speculation fighting
in  Syria  may escalate.  Force Majeure  Three of Libya’s nine export ports, including Es Sider, the
nation’s largest, have been under force majeure since Aug. 18,
and a fourth, Hariga, closed since end July. The force majeure,
a legal clause that excuses the seller from making deliveries
because of events beyond its control, was lifted at Brega on
Aug. 22. The others that are operating are Zawiya, and the
offshore loading terminals of Mellitah, Al Jurf and Bouri.  Supply to Zawiya and Mellitah terminals may be disrupted as
they receive crude from the Sharara and Elephant respectively,
Awami said in an interview today.  “Too many chiefs and not enough soldiers,” Awami said,
commenting on the promotion and hiring demands of some of the
protesters who shut down the fields in the western region.  The oil ministry has organized visits to Es Sider and
Hariga to show the media that every drop of oil is accounted
for. Libya, which depends on petroleum sales for 95 percent of
its exports, has lost $4.5 billion in energy revenue this year,
Berruien said. Deputy Oil Minister Omar Shakmak said yesterday
said the country’s export dropped to average 300,000 barrels a
day in August.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Dubai at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  