-- Ligament That’s Bedeviled Baseball Fails for Mets’ Harvey
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g   a n d   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2013-08-27T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/ligament-that-s-bedeviled-baseball-fails-for-mets-harvey.html
Every time a baseball pitcher plants
his front heel and whips the ball toward home plate, the odds
rise that a 1.5-inch long ligament in his elbow will split, fray
or, at worse, tear away from the bones that anchor it.  The result over time: Pain, and often an operation in which
surgeons drill holes into the bones around the elbow and anchor
in a replacement ligament, usually taken from the wrist or the
leg. A year later, in 85 percent of cases, professional players
can once again throw the ball at least as hard as they did
before the operation, doctors say.  The  New York Mets  said Aug. 26 that Matt Harvey, a 24-year-old pitcher who was chosen as the National League’s starter at
the All-Star Game in Citi Field in  New York , has a partly torn
ulnar collateral ligament, or UCL, in his right elbow. He is
considering whether to undergo surgery that would probably keep
him out of baseball next season, the team said.  It’s become “a lot more common surgery” at all levels of
competition, offering “a pretty predictable return to the same
level of play,” said John Wilckens, an associate professor of
medicine at Johns Hopkins Medicine in Baltimore and the team
doctor for the  Baltimore Orioles .  The tear in Harvey’s UCL is one of the most common injuries
for professional, college and youth pitchers, caused by massive,
repeated torque, Wilckens said.  40 Surgeries  About 40 Major League athletes have, in the last two years,
undergone a procedure named for Tommy John, the former New York
Yankees pitcher who became the first player to undergo it in
1974, according to Mike Teevan, a spokesman for  Major League
Baseball . It’s a list that includes  Stephen Strasburg  of the
 Washington Nationals , who had a similarly successful start as
Harvey, and Adam Wainwright of the  St. Louis Cardinals ,
according to Teevan.  The decision by the Mets and Harvey will probably depend on
the severity of the tear and whether it responds to rest and
physical therapy, said Frederick Azar, a sports physician and
vice president of the  American Academy  of Orthopaedic Surgeons.  “I’m still very optimistic,” said Harvey, who has a 9-5
record with a 2.27 earned-run average and 191 strikeouts, in a
Aug. 26 news conference. “I’m going to do everything I can so I
don’t have to get surgery.”  While Tommy John surgery has become a staple for
professional players, Azar said it is increasingly common for
high school pitchers who are “playing the sport year-round and
not giving their body time to rest.”  Youth Procedures  From 2008 to 2011, more than a quarter of the procedures
at the  Andrews Sports Medicine & Orthopaedic Center  in
Birmingham,  Alabama , one of the top centers for the surgery in
the country, were on amateur athletes, according to information
on center’s website.  When  Lyle Micheli , director of the division of sports
medicine at Boston Children’s Hospital in  Massachusetts , sees a
child with even a small a tear in their UCL he stops them from
throwing for about three months, sending them in for physical
rehabilitation and work with a pitching coach.  It is up to the parent to monitor how much a young athlete
is throwing, after that. “I want the father to be a pitch
counter,” he said in a telephone interview.  Micheli disputes the idea he’s heard from some parents
that undergoing surgery even when there is no pain might improve
a child’s competitive performance. He calls it a myth.  One reason the surgery is so often used is that the
ligament, which is about the width of a shoelace, doesn’t heal
well on its own, Azar in a telephone interview. That may be
because it gets less blood flow or is surrounded by less soft
tissue than others, which can help with healing, he said.  Innings Limit  The innings-limit debate for pitchers has become a hotly-contested issue in baseball as a result of the growing number of
young players who undergo Tommy John surgery. Miami Marlins
rookie Jose Fernandez, for example, is on a limit despite his
2.30 ERA, third best in the National League.  Harvey threw 135 2/3 innings in 2011 as a minor leaguer,
his first as a professional, and 169 1/3 innings in the major
and minor leagues last year. This year he was up to 178 1/3
innings with the Mets planning to hold him to a 200-inning
limit.  Other teams, such as the  Texas Rangers , refuse to set
ceilings, either for total innings or for in-game pitch counts,
saying that better conditioning and techniques can help keep
ligament tears at bay.  1941 Finding  Doctors first began detailing pitching elbow injuries in
1941, according to the  National Institutes of Health . In the
1960s and 1970s, about half of professional baseball pitchers
were found to have elbow or shoulder pain. By that time, sports
physicians were also using medical imaging technology to find
evidence of joint damage.  The 1974  surgery to reconstruct the UCL  on John occurred
when he was a player for the  Los Angeles Dodgers . Afterwards,
his surgeon, Frank Jobe, gave John only a 1 percent chance of
returning to play. Two years later, he returned to the major
leagues and played for 14 more years, winning 164 games and
making three All-Star teams.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  