-- LightSquared Lenders Seek Auctio to End Falcone Control
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2013-08-27T14:52:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/lightsquared-lenders-seek-auctio-to-end-falcone-control.html
A group of lenders to Philip A. Falcone’s LightSquared Inc. seeks to end his control of the
bankrupt company through an auction that would have a leading
bid from a unit of  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  valued at $3.5 billion.  The $2.22 billion bid from Dish, founded by billionaire
 Charlie Ergen , is worth more because it includes assumption of
obligations under the company’s contracts with Inmarsat Plc and
Boeing Co., lenders said in papers filed yesterday in  bankruptcy
court  in Manhattan.  During LightSquared’s 15 months in bankruptcy, prospects
for creditors have worsened as Falcone ignored the $2.22 billion
cash offer from Dish’s L-Band Acquisition LLC and admitted
wrongdoing in a Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement
action. His  investment company , Harbinger Capital Partners LLC,
also sued the global positioning system industry, the lenders
said in court papers.  The GPS lawsuit is “sure to have a chilling effect on the
debtors’ current efforts before the Federal Communications
Commission” to obtain the regulatory approval that Falcone’s
own reorganization plan is premised on, and the other actions by
the billionaire mean “the debtors’ prospects of solving their
problems are increasingly bleak,” the lenders said.  The lenders are seeking approval of an outline for their
plan to reorganize the broadband-network services provider at a
Sept. 30 hearing and aim to end an auction by Dec. 6 and win
final plan approval by Dec. 10.  Industry Ban  Falcone and Harbinger agreed Aug. 19 to pay an $18 million
fine and Falcone accepted a five-year ban from the securities
industry. The SEC had accused him of improperly borrowing from
the fund and favoring some investors over others.  LightSquared had said it expected competing proposals to
reorganize its assets. The company lost the exclusive right to
control its reorganization July 15.  The lender group, which owns debt in the LP unit, includes
Capital Research & Management Co., Fir Tree Capital Opportunity
Master Funds LP, Cyrus Capital Partners LP, Intermarket Corp.,
 UBS AG (UBSN)  and SP Special Opportunities LLC, a fund owned by Ergen.  LightSquared, based in Reston,  Virginia , filed for
bankruptcy in May 2012, listing assets of $4.48 billion and debt
of $2.29 billion.  The case is In re LightSquared Inc., 12-bk-12080,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 