-- India Rupee Nears Record Low as Rising Oil May Boost Import Bill
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2013-08-27T04:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/india-rupee-nears-record-low-as-rising-oil-may-boost-import-bill.html
India’s rupee fell to within 0.3
percent of a record low on concern geopolitical tensions will
push up  oil prices , boosting import costs at a time when capital
inflows are slowing due to a possible paring of U.S. stimulus.  The rupee weakened 1.6 percent to 65.36 per dollar as of
9:29 a.m. in Mumbai, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg, near the all-time low of 65.56 touched on
Aug. 22. The currency has lost 3.1 percent in two days and 9.1
percent this quarter.  Brent crude  rose 0.4 percent today after U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  said yesterday President  Barack Obama  will hold
Syria accountable for using chemical weapons against its people,
fanning concern unrest in the region may disrupt supplies of the
fuel. India imports about 80 percent of its oil and is the
world’s largest consumer of gold, the price of which has
advanced 13 percent this quarter.  “The rupee is likely to continue to be under pressure
given rising gold and oil prices,” Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior
economist at Credit Agricole CIB in  Hong Kong , said in an e-mail
interview. “Any major dip in the dollar-rupee  exchange rate 
should be seen as a buying opportunity for the pair given lack
of sufficient measures that would turn around India’s weak
fundamentals.”  Volatility, Forwards  Global funds have cut  holdings  of Indian debt by $10.3
billion since May 22, when the  Federal Reserve  flagged a
potential reduction of bond purchases. Local gold prices have
surged 24 percent since the end of June as the rupee’s plunge
threatens to stoke inflation, boosting the lure of the metal as
a store of value.  One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves
in the exchange rate used to price options, rose 33 basis points,
or 0.33 percentage point, to 16.49 percent.  Three-month onshore rupee forwards fell 1.4 percent to
65.89 per dollar, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Offshore non-deliverable contracts dropped 1.3 percent to 67.15. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Regan at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  