-- India’s Gujarat Waives Renewable Targets for Utilities
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2013-08-27T10:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/india-s-gujarat-waives-renewable-targets-for-utilities.html
Regulators in India’s Gujarat state
waived clean-energy targets for power distribution companies in
a blow to the country’s market for trading renewable credits.  State utility Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Ltd. and Ahmedabad-based  Torrent Power Ltd. (TPW)  had petitioned against a rule requiring
them last fiscal year to source 7 percent of their power from
renewable sources or buy credits over the power exchanges to
fulfill the obligation.  Gujarat Electricity Regulatory Commission sided with the
companies, saying enforcement of the rule would “unjustifiably
burden” consumers with higher electricity prices, according to
a copy of the  order  posted on the regulator’s website.  In 2011, India set up a market to allow power distributors,
steelmakers and miners to purchase credits from wind, solar and
hydropower plants to meet targets if they can’t source clean
power locally. That market has struggled to take off, and
credits are languishing at their floor price because authorities
are failing to enforce targets, according to the  State Bank of
India .  “The order will set a bad precedent,” ReConnect Energy
Solutions Pvt., an Indore-based trader of the credits, said in
an e-mail to clients today. The decision by Gujarat,  India ’s
third-largest state for renewable-power capacity, gives
companies a “strong incentive” to ignore their targets in the
current financial year, too, it said.  The glut of credits surged to a record last month, driving
prices down to the minimum set by regulators of 1,500 rupees
($23) for biomass, hydro and wind allowances and 9,300 rupees
for solar. Each credit represents 1 megawatt-hour of electricity
fed into the grid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  