-- India’s Nifty Index Futures Drop on Food Bill, Weakening Rupee
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-08-27T02:17:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/india-s-nifty-index-futures-drop-on-food-bill-weakening-rupee.html
Indian (SENSEX)  stock-index futures fell
after the nation’s currency resumed losses and the government
passed legislation expanding the world’s largest food program.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for August delivery dropped 0.8
percent to 5,418 at 10:10 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index added 0.1 percent to 5,476.50 yesterday. The S&P BSE
Sensex gained 0.2 percent. The Bank of  New York  Mellon  India  ADR
Index of U.S.-traded shares declined 1.1 percent. The rupee
slumped 1.5 percent to 64.3075 per dollar yesterday, while one-month rupee forwards lost 0.6 percent to 65.60 today.  The Sensex retreated 12 percent from this year’s high on
July 23 through Aug. 21 amid concern steps to stem a record
slide in the rupee will curb economic growth. The food bill,
which gives subsidized grain to two-thirds of India’s 1.2
billion people, involves spending about 1.25 trillion rupees
($19.5 billion) in subsidies each year at a time when the
government is running budget and current-account deficits.  “The food bill is a populist measure and will put pressure
on government finances,” Surya Narayan Nayak, an analyst at
Networth Stock Broking Ltd., said by phone from Mumbai today.
“This also shows the government is gearing up for the polls and
there could be more populist measures and political uncertainty,
which is not good for market sentiments. We expect the rupee to
remain weak.”  Populist Measures  With the passage of the bill before elections due by May,
Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has a defining piece of
legislation to woo rural voters in his second term, as economic
growth slowed to a decade low and the rupee lost a third of its
value in the past five years.  Central bank efforts to bolster the currency in the past
month, including raising two  interest rates  and tightening
lenders’ access to cash, have so far failed to arrest its
decline.  International investors sold Indian stocks for a fifth day
on Aug. 23, offloading a net $208.7 million worth of shares,
data from the market regulator showed yesterday. That pared this
year’s net inflow to $11.9 billion, still the second-largest
among 10 Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  The slowest economic growth in a decade in the year ended
March 31 and the tumbling currency are hurting company earnings.
Combined profits for the 30 companies in the Sensex increased
1.4 percent in the three months ended June, compared with an
estimate of 5.8 percent before the reporting season began, Bank
of America Corp. analysts Jyotivardhan Jaipuria and Anand Kumar
wrote in a report dated Aug. 19.  About 47 percent of Sensex companies that posted earnings
for the June quarter missed analyst estimates. That compares
with 27 percent for the March quarter, and 43 percent in the
three months ended December, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The Sensex has lost 4.5 percent this year and  trades  at
13.2 times projected 12-month earnings, compared with the MSCI
 Emerging Markets  Index’s 9.9 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  