-- India Explores Currency Swaps in Struggle to Stem Rupee’s Plunge
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-08-27T14:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/india-explores-currency-swaps-in-struggle-to-stem-rupee-s-plunge.html
India (INGDPY)  said it will set up a panel to
identify potential partner countries for currency-swap
agreements as the nation tries to buttress foreign reserves and
stem the rupee’s record plunge.  The task force will report in a month, Commerce Minister
 Anand Sharma  said at a briefing in New Delhi today. India’s
economic growth is expected to exceed 5.5 percent in the fiscal
year ending in March 2014, he said.  The rupee tumbled to an unprecedented 66.19 per dollar
today as the prospect of reduced U.S. Federal Reserve stimulus
and India’s record current-account deficit spur capital
outflows. Boosting foreign reserves is key to rupee stability,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch said this month.  “We think the authorities will continue to explore swap
facilities with other central banks, can put further controls on
imports, especially of luxury items, and can attempt to increase
capital inflows, for instance by issuing quasi-sovereign
bonds,”  Tushar Poddar , an economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
in Mumbai, wrote in a note.  India entered a $15 billion swap arrangement with Japan in
2011 to improve access to dollar funding during a crisis.  The rupee slumped 2.9 percent by the close in Mumbai, the
most since February 1996, and has depreciated about 18 percent
in the past six months.  The  Reserve Bank  of India may delay its monetary-policy
announcement to Sept. 20, after the Fed’s meeting next month,
Bloomberg TV India reported today, without saying where it got
the information. The RBI decision is currently due on Sept. 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  