-- Infigen in Talks to Reassess Partnership With China’s Suntech
-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 2013-08-27T01:20:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/infigen-in-talks-to-reassess-partnership-with-china-s-suntech.html
Infigen Energy Ltd., an  Australia  wind
farm developer, said it’s in talks with  Suntech Power Holdings
Co. (STP)  to re-evaluate their solar partnership after the
Chinese company’s main unit was pulled into bankruptcy.  “Suntech’s financial condition has deteriorated
substantially since we formed the joint venture,” Miles George,
managing director of Sydney-based Infigen, said in an Aug. 23
telephone interview. “We are in discussions with them about how
we can deal with that situation. Obviously their position has
changed dramatically.”  The biggest unit of Suntech, once the world’s largest
solar-panel maker, was forced into bankruptcy in March after the
company defaulted on $541 million of bonds. Infigen and Suntech
won approval from the New South Wales state government in late
2010 and early 2011 to develop about 150 megawatts of solar
farms, according to the Australian company’s website.  A voicemail message left today on Suntech’s media line in
 San Francisco  and an e-mail sent to its main office in Wuxi,
 China  weren’t immediately returned.  Infigen is seeking federal government funding to develop a
36-megawatt solar project in New South Wales, George said. The
Infigen and Suntech venture was referred to the Australian
Renewable Energy Agency by former Resources Minister  Martin
Ferguson  last year after losing a bid for funds in the
government’s Solar Flagships program.  Infigen is still considering the sale of its 141-megawatt
Capital wind farm in New South Wales state after hiring advisers
earlier this year to test the interest in the asset, George
said. The company is studying whether it’s a good time to sell
given uncertainty about the government policies that will be in
place after the election next month, he said.  Infigen has six wind farms in Australia with a total
capacity of about 557 megawatts and has a stake in 18 wind farms
in the U.S., according to its website. The company also has
solar projects in the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney at 
 jpaton4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  