-- Linking Carbon Supply to Growth Is Complicated, PwC’s Grant Says
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2013-08-27T10:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/linking-carbon-supply-to-growth-is-complicated-pwc-s-grant-says.html
Jonathan Grant, director of
sustainability and climate change at PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
in London, comments on rule changes being considered to the
European Union emissions trading program, in an e-mailed
response to questions on Aug. 23.  The European Commission would consider implementing changes
to the market’s structure that would cut supply of carbon
permits according to an unspecified measure of economic
activity,  Jos Delbeke , director general for climate at the
commission in Brussels, said in a May interview.  On whether market intervention is needed:  “With many market participants expecting carbon to remain
in the doldrums until 2020, it is right that the commission is
looking at intervention. In the same way that central banks
adjust  interest rates  to manage inflation, a ‘central carbon
bank’ could adjust the volume of EU allowances auctioned in
response to economic statistics in order to manage the carbon
price. However, this is perhaps an unnecessarily complicated way
of managing the price. A simpler approach would be to set a
higher reserve price in auctions. If the reserve price is not
met, the allowances can be withheld and possibly auctioned in
later years if the market price is deemed to be too high. In
this way the commission could achieve a price corridor. The
commission should be transparent about the price objectives, in
the same way the U.K. government is about the carbon price
floor.”  On how the EU should adjust permit supply:  “Looking at how to adjust the carbon price depending on
the level of economic growth is probably sensible. Of course,
the market price should fluctuate depending on emissions, but
having a reasonable price signal even during the recession will
help maintain the incentive to invest in low-carbon options.
This may even help prevent assets becoming stranded when carbon
prices return to higher levels.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  