-- Innolux Sees Consolidation as Chinese Screen Makers Expand
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-27T07:06:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/innolux-sees-consolidation-as-chinese-screen-makers-expand-1-.html
Innolux Corp. (3481) , the screen maker that
analysts estimate will return to  profit  after four years  of
losses, said it expects rising capacity from Chinese
manufacturers will lead to consolidation.  “When there’s tough competition it means some won’t
survive and through that, production capacity could become
available,” President Jyh Chau Wang said in an interview
yesterday at the company’s headquarters in northern  Taiwan ’s
Miaoli county. “What you see as danger is actually an
opportunity.”  Chinese panel makers such as  BOE Technology Group Co. (000725)  and
 TCL Corp. (000100) ’s Shenzhen China Star Optoelectronics Technology Co.
are challenging market share leaders in Taiwan and  South Korea 
with plans to ramp up production. Beijing-based BOE last month
said it would sell as much as 46 billion  yuan  ($7.5 billion) in
shares to finance expansion of plants making displays with low
energy consumption and high definition capabilities.  Between six and eight new plants in China will start
producing panels in the next two years for screen sizes between
40 and 55 inches (102 to 140 centimeters), market research firm
 TrendForce  wrote in an Aug. 22 report.  Innolux rose 0.3 percent to close at NT$14.75 at 1:30 p.m.
in Taipei trading. The stock has dropped 5.5 percent this year,
trailing the 1.6 percent gain in the benchmark Taiex index.  Chinese Manufacturers  “In large panels, the Chinese producers are coming in,
making prices weaker,” said Alberto Moel, a Hong Kong-based
analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. with an underperform
rating on Innolux. “Prices weakened in the past six months and
I expect them to weaken further.”  Global display panel shipments are projected to fall 7.4
percent from a year ago to 698 million units this year,  Santa
Clara , California-based DisplaySearch said Aug. 21. Innolux
customers stocked up on excessive inventory in the first six
months of this year, Wang said.  “There is a need for consolidation or strategic alliance
in some ways in the panel industry, probably on a global or
cross-border level,” Jack Huang, a Taipei-based partner at law
firm  Jones Day , said. “And the pressure for movement in that
direction is mounting.”  Partnership talks with Chinese companies have stalled
because of curbs by Taiwan’s government, Wang said. Taiwan
restricts Chinese investment in certain industries, such as
display panels and semiconductors on concern China’s companies
may obtain strategic technologies. President Ma Ying-jeou’s
administration has signaled intentions to ease some
restrictions, the Taipei-based Economic Daily News reported in
September.  “China has money and Taiwan has technology, so there are
plenty of cooperation opportunities,” said Wang, without
identifying companies Innolux may seek partnerships with.  Product Mix  Shenzhen China Star Optoelectronics Technology bought a
Shenzhen facility for $17.7 million and 334.5 million yuan from
 Chunghwa Picture Tubes Ltd. (2475) , the seller said in a statement to
Taiwan’s stock exchange in March.  Innolux is projected to report net income of NT$14.8
billion this year, according to the average of 22 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey, compared with a NT$29.2 billion loss last
year. The company is looking to screens for smartphones and
tablets to help it return to profitability.  The company’s capital expenditure will be between NT$20
billion ($667 million) and NT$30 billion in 2014, compared with
a projected NT$20 billion this year. Most of the spending will
be on expanding existing plants, according to Wang.  Peter Liao, a Taipei-based analyst at Nomura International,
who has a buy rating on the shares, said the company’s focus on
premium TV panel products, including higher-resolution
technology, has improved its product mix. “If this strategy
works, this is going to differentiate them from the  China  panel
makers,” he said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Yu-Huay Sun in Taipei at 
 ysun7@bloomberg.net ;
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  