-- Lira Sinks to Record 2 Per Dollar as Syria Risks Mount in Turkey
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2013-08-27T07:34:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/lira-sinks-to-record-2-per-dollar-as-syria-risks-mount-in-turkey.html
The lira tumbled to 2 against the
dollar for the first time after a report  Turkey  may join a
coalition that’s threatening to take action against  Syria .  The lira weakened as much as 0.6 percent to 2.0095 a
dollar, the lowest since Bloomberg began monitoring the data in
1981, and traded 0.4 percent lower at 2.0053 at 10:10 a.m. in
Istanbul. Yields on  10-year bonds  increased 32 basis points to
10.5 percent, the highest on a closing basis since June 2010.  Turkey will join a coalition against Syria if the United
Nations fails to take action after allegations that forces loyal
to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad used chemical weapons,
Milliyet newspaper reported, citing Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu . The report comes after U.S. Secretary of State John
Kerry said Syria will be held accountable for using chemical
weapons. The lira was the worst performer among emerging-market
currencies in Europe, the Middle East and  Africa  in the past
five days.  “Syria, geopolitical risks and lessening global risk
appetite are affecting all emerging-market currencies,” Ipek Ozkardeskaya, a currency strategist at Swissquote Bank SA in
Geneva, said in e-mailed comments. “The central bank’s daily
additional tightening policy is completely ineffective and makes
an opposite effect in the market as it drains the reserves.”  Draining Reserves  The Turkish central bank has been trying to shore up the
lira by tightening monetary policy. It sold $700 million at
auctions in the last two days and refrained from providing funds
at the lowest lending rate in its three-pronged interest rate
corridor between Aug. 20 and Aug. 26.  Policy makers have drained $8.65 billion from the nation’s
foreign-exchange reserves to support the currency. The central
bank raised the overnight lending rate by 50 basis points, or
0.5 of a percentage point, to 7.75 percent on Aug. 20, while
keeping the benchmark one-week repurchase rate and the overnight
borrowing rate unchanged.  The central bank had $109 billion in reserves as of Aug.
16, it said last week. Excluding foreign exchange from banks,
less than $50 billion is available for dollar auctions, London-based Luis Costa, an emerging-markets currency strategist at
Citigroup Inc., said Aug. 22.  The Ankara-based Treasury will hold auctions today to sell
15-month zero-coupon bonds and re issue March 2020 floating-rate
notes. Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci will give an interview
today to the Anatolia News Agency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  