-- Israel Warns Syria Not to Attack in Reprisal for Any U.S. Strike
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2013-08-27T15:37:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/israel-warns-syria-not-to-attack-in-reprisal-for-any-u-s-strike.html
Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  vowed in a televised statement that his country would
“respond powerfully” if it discerns any attempt to harm it,
amid signs the U.S. is weighing a military strike on Syria.  Netanyahu met today with top officials with security
responsibilities as the U.S. and allies discussed how to respond
to an alleged chemical attack outside Damascus that they blame
on Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Syrian and Iranian
officials said earlier this week that a U.S. attack on Syria
could draw retaliation directed against Israel.  Following the meeting, the Israeli leader went on
television to warn Assad’s government against such a reprisal.  “Israel is not a part of the civil war in Syria, but if we
identify any attempt to hurt us, we will respond, and respond
powerfully,” Netanyahu said.  According to some Syrian opposition groups, 1,300 people
died in the Aug. 21 attack in the Ghouta area. U.S. Secretary of
State  John Kerry  denounced the alleged assault as a “cowardly
crime” requiring a response against the Syrian government.
Assad has denied the accusation.  Israel has been caught in similar crossfire in the past.
During the first  Gulf War  in 1991, Iraqi leader  Saddam Hussein 
fired Scud missiles at the Jewish state after the U.S. attacked
Iraq for invading  Kuwait .  The Israel Hayom newspaper reported that officials in the
northern city of Haifa had ordered residents to get their bomb
shelters in order. On Aug. 25, an official reported that the
number of requests for government-issued gas masks had tripled
the daily average that day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  