-- Italy Takes Steps to Control Bird Flu After Outbreaks, EU Says
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2013-08-27T16:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/italy-takes-steps-to-control-bird-flu-after-outbreaks-eu-says.html
A virulent strain of bird flu was
found on three farms in Italy, spurring authorities to kill
poultry and restrict movement of some animals to stem the spread
of the disease in the country’s first outbreak since 2000.  The strain of highly pathogenic avian influenza was
discovered on farms in the region of Emilia-Romagna, in
northeast Italy this month, the European Commission said in a
 statement  today. Italian authorities are killing birds and
setting up protection and surveillance zones, which restrict
movement of poultry and poultry products in eastern Emilia-Romagna and southeastern Veneto, according to the report.  Highly pathogenic  strains  of avian flu can spread rapidly
and be fatal for birds, according to the Paris-based World
Organization for  Animal Health , known as OIE. The disease can
affect domesticated animals such as chickens and turkeys, as
well as wild and pet birds. The most recent highly pathogenic
outbreaks in the EU were in 2010 in Romania and  Bulgaria ,
according to the OIE.  “It is safe to eat poultry meat or eggs marketed in the EU
as all affected flocks and their eggs are destroyed
immediately,” said the EU Commission, the bloc’s administrative
arm. “In any case, cooking such products eliminates any
possible risk.”  The European Center for Disease Prevention and Control
“considers that the risk of avian influenza transmission to
humans is low,” the commission said.  Two of the outbreaks occurred on egg farms with a total
population of 700,000 laying hens, and the third  case  was on a
turkey farm with almost 20,000 birds, the commission said.  Italy 
is the EU’s third-biggest producer of eggs and ranks fifth for
chicken meat output, according to data from the bloc.  While Italy has had multiple cases of less virulent strains
bird flu since 1997, this was the first highly pathogenic
outbreak in more than a decade, according to a  presentation  from
Istituto Zooprofilattico Sperimentale delle Venezie, a public
veterinary research institute in Legnaro, Italy. About 11
countries have reported outbreaks this year, including  China ,
 India , Australia and  Mexico , according to the OIE.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  