-- Lithuania Demands Russia Clarify Safety of Baltic Nuclear Plant
-- B y   B r y a n   B r a d l e y
-- 2013-08-27T15:31:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/lithuania-demands-russia-clarify-safety-of-baltic-nuclear-plant.html
Lithuania  demanded Russia prove the
safety of a nuclear power plant Russian state energy company
Rosatom Corp. is building in Kaliningrad a week after urging
Belarus to halt work on a similar plant due to safety concerns.  “Lithuania is still waiting for answers to its basic
questions regarding the development of the Kaliningrad nuclear
power plant project,” the Foreign Ministry in Vilnius, the
Lithuanian capital, said on its website today, urging Russia to
comply with international standards for information sharing.  The Baltic nation, which closed its Soviet-built Ignalina
nuclear plant as a condition for European Union accession in
2004, is reluctant to see new Russian reactors near its borders
with Belarus and  Russia ’s Kaliningrad enclave. Russia says its
project would benefit Lithuania by reducing electricity prices.  Since 2010, Lithuania has asked Russia “a dozen times”
about seismic hazards, emergency preparedness and stress-test
plans at the site of the new plant without receiving any
answers, the ministry said. Today’s comments are a reaction to
criticism by Rosatom that Lithuania is uncooperative, it said.  The Russian company says Lithuania is the only country
that’s objecting to the project, while  Latvia ,  Poland , Belarus,
 Estonia  and other countries are satisfied with information
that’s been provided, according to a letter from Rosatom that
the Lithuanian news portal 15min.lt published yesterday.  Rosatom said in June it suspended some work on construction
of the Baltic Nuclear Power Plant in Kaliningrad as it was
considering building several smaller reactors in addition to the
two initially planned 1,200 megawatt units.  Lithuanian Prime Minister Algirdas Butkevicius on Aug. 20
expressed concern that  Belarus  began groundwork for a nuclear
plant that it’s hired Rosatom to build near the town of
Ostrovets, 40 kilometers (25 miles) from Vilnius. Butkevicius
said Belarus must not start construction until it proves
compliance with international treaties and safety standards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bryan Bradley in Vilnius at 
 bbradley13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  