-- Ito Backs Japan Sales-Tax Plan as Hamada Calls for Gradual Rise
-- B y   A n d y   S h a r p   a n d   J a m e s   M a y g e r
-- 2013-08-27T13:41:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/ito-backs-japan-sales-tax-plan-as-hamada-calls-for-gradual-rise.html
Tokyo  University Professor Takatoshi Ito said Japan’s sales tax should be increased as planned as a
panel of economists and financial experts considering the levy
split on the issue.  “Economic indicators show the economy isn’t in a bad state
and raising the sales tax wouldn’t slow the economy or the bid
to end deflation,” Ito, a former finance ministry official,
told reporters today after the meeting in Tokyo. Not proceeding
in line with the plan could lead to falling stocks, a stronger
yen and a spike in bond yields, Ito wrote in a statement
submitted to the panel.  Ito was among five of the nine people on today’s panel to
agree with the plan to increase the tax to 8 percent in April
from the current 5 percent, Economy Minister Akira Amari told
reporters after the meeting. Abe adviser Koichi Hamada was one
of three panel members to call for an incremental rise by 1
percentage point a year, according to Amari.  Today’s panel was the second of seven being held this week,
providing 60 people including business leaders and academics a
platform to relay their views on the tax to the government.
 Japan ’s leaders are trying to fuel growth without worsening a
public debt more than twice the size of the economy.  Ito said the incremental tax-increase proposal “would have
huge costs in terms of the time taken to create and pass laws
and the political energy required.” He said in June that a
sales tax of at least 15 percent was needed for fiscal reform.  Gradual Increase  Hamada, an architect of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s
economic strategy known as Abenomics, wrote in his statement
today that the tax-increase should be postponed for a year or,
if technically possible, raised incrementally.  Former Bank of Japan Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata
yesterday also urged a gradual approach, and called for 5
trillion yen ($51 billion) in stimulus spending if the tax is
raised as planned.  Finance Minister Taro Aso and Bank of Japan Governor
Haruhiko Kuroda are among those attending the meetings. Aso said
today that a failure to stem rising social welfare costs might
make it necessary to further increase the tax.  Abe will make the final decision on the tax “at the
latest” by early October, Amari said earlier this week. The
prime minister can postpone or cancel the increase should he
determine the economy can’t bear the impact.  Abe will take into account the views of the expert panels
and data including revised gross domestic product for the second
quarter, due Sept. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Sharp in Tokyo at 
 asharp5@bloomberg.net ;
James Mayger in Tokyo at 
 jmayger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  