-- TiVo Posts $268.9 Million Profit Boosted by Settlements
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2013-08-28T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/tivo-posts-268-9-million-profit-boosted-by-settlements.html
TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the digital-video
recorder pioneer, reported a second-quarter profit of $268.9
million, boosted by legal settlements, and forecast earnings to
continue through this year and in fiscal 2015.  Net income of $1.96 a share included $490 million from
lawsuits with  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Motorola
Mobility,  San Jose , California-based TiVo said yesterday in a
statement. The results compared with a loss of $27.7 million, or
23 cents, a year earlier.  TiVo has won about $1.6 billion from lawsuits over the use
of its DVR technology. The latest settlements will increase
licensing revenue in the future, the company said, allowing it
to become profitable on an ongoing basis. For the last fiscal 
year, TiVo  posted  a net loss of $5.26 million.  “TiVo has been asked for a decade, ‘When do you hit
profitability?’” Chief Executive Officer Tom Rogers said in an
interview. “We are making a clear statement here that we are
profitable on a sustaining basis.”  The company will be profitable for the remainder of the
fiscal year ending in January and through the following year,
Rogers said. In fiscal 2015, the company’s adjusted earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization will
exceed $100 million, helped by about $70 million in license
revenue and a $30 million decrease in litigation costs, Rogers
also said.  “Many people are looking through the impact of licensing
streams and just giving them credit for the cash balance from
these deals,” said Rob Sanderson, an analyst at MKM Partners
LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut . He recommends buying the shares.  Streaming Services  In the quarter ended in July, sales gained 53 percent to
$100.1 million, beating the $86.4 million average of analysts’
estimates.  The stock rose 2 percent to $11.19 in extended trading
yesterday, after falling 1.6 percent to $10.97 at the close in
 New York . The shares have dropped 11 percent this year.  TiVo is seeking to reverse sliding retail sales with new
Roamio set-top boxes that can better access streaming services
including  Netflix Inc. (NFLX)  and deliver recorded programs to mobile
devices. The company has lost retail customers as pay-TV
services offer more streaming and on-demand video options, and
develop mobile software for so-called TV Everywhere viewing seen
on  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  iPads and Android devices.  Surplus Cash  The company sells its own set-top boxes and also licenses
its technology to pay-TV operators such as  DirecTV (DTV)  and Comcast
Corp. that rent units to subscribers. To shore up the slowing
retail business, TiVo is selling customers the Roamio product
line, offering the latest viewing technologies for $200 to $600,
plus a monthly service fee of $15.  TiVo has about $1 billion in cash and has more than it
needs, Rogers said. It repurchased $60 million of stock in the
second quarter and more than $100 million remains in its buyback
program, Chief Financial Officer Naveen Chopra said on a
conference call yesterday.  The company plans to continue repurchasing stock and views
buying back shares as the preferred way to return value to
investors, Rogers said.  TiVo will have lower research and development costs this
year compared with a year earlier and plans to further reduce
those expenses in 2015, Rogers said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  