-- Japan’s Quarterly Land Values Gain as Abe Pushes for Growth
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2013-08-27T07:31:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/japan-land-values-gain-at-more-sites-as-abe-pushes-for-growth.html
Japan  land values rose at more sites
than 2008, as Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s policies to end
deflation helped lift commercial and housing prices.  Values rose at 99 locations monitored by the government in
the three months ended July 1, a  survey  by the Ministry of Land,
Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism showed today. Eighty land
sites rose in the previous quarter.  The Bank of Japan  has pumped $278 billion into the
financial system since April, pushing down the value of the yen
and boosting both exports and the country’s banking industry.
Sales of offices, warehouses and retail space in Japan surged 50
percent in the first half and Japan’s housing starts rose for a
10th month in June, the longest streak in 16 years.  “We have started to see the recovery of the real estate
market,” Kazuhiro Himeno, director of the land price research
division at the land ministry, said. “Land sites with good
locations are showing signs of strengthening. We’ve also seen a
revival of investment interest that is partly helped by the
monetary-easing policy.”  Expectations that property prices will start increasing
pushed Japan’s housing starts up for a 10th month in June, the
longest streak since the period ended December 1996, the land
ministry said last month.  Office, warehouse and retail space sales in Japan may climb
to the highest since 2008 this year, according to  Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc. (JLL) , a Chicago-based broker.  The 66 percent increase in the quarter ended July 1 was the
biggest since prices rose at 87 percent of 100 sites the
government watched in the quarter ended Jan. 1, 2008.  The Topix Real Estate Index fell 1.2 percent at the close
of trading in  Tokyo , trimming its year-to-date advance to 43
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  