-- Jefferies to Hire Up to Four Bankers for Its Russia Expansion
-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 2013-08-27T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/jefferies-to-hire-up-to-four-bankers-for-its-russia-expansion.html
Jefferies Group LLC, the investment
bank that sold itself to  Leucadia National Corp. (LUK) , is hiring as
many as four investment bankers for its first office in Moscow
as international competitors retreat from  Russia .  The U.S. bank lured Ildar Iksanov from Deutsche Bank AG in
June to lead the business, which will focus on mergers and
acquisitions, high-yield financing and global equity
distribution, according to Peter Bacchus, co-head of Europe
investment banking at Jefferies in  London .  “A lot of what we are doing might be viewed as going
against the grain or flow of traffic,” Bacchus, 44, said in a
phone interview. “We see banks scaling back in Moscow,
including those that have been very successful in the past.”  Jefferies, based in  New York , is expanding as some
investment banks retrench in Moscow amid competition from state-controlled  OAO Sberbank (SBER)  and VTB Group.  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s
largest lender, said a year ago it would shutter its securities
operation in Russia.  ING Groep NV (INGA) , the biggest Dutch financial-services company, said in October it would close its equities
unit there.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , Switzerland’s second-largest
bank, moved part of its Russian capital-markets and advisory
businesses to London from Moscow, two people with knowledge of
the matter said in December.  Jefferies will cater to large-capitalization companies as
well as “quality smaller companies” and privately held firms,
Bacchus said.  ‘Global Footprint’  “The local banks do not have the same global capabilities
that we do, with teams located in Shanghai or Beijing,” Bacchus
said. Larger international banks “do have a similar global
footprint to us, but they really only mobilize that
infrastructure for the very largest companies,” he said.  Iskanov, 41, said he is initially seeking to hire “three
to four investment banking professionals,” before growing
further over the next 12 months. “Our build-out will reflect
the pipeline of deals that we build. We see consolidation in the
gold space, iron one, and coking coal but less so in steel and
base metals.”  Russian mergers and acquisitions totaled more than $27
billion in 31 transactions this year, compared with 95 deals
valued at more than $100 billion for all of 2012, data compiled
by Bloomberg show.  Jefferies was hired in March of last year as corporate
broker to Russian miner Nord Gold NV after it was spun out of
steelmaker OAO Severstal. The firm advised Nord Gold on its
takeover of High River Gold in  Canada  and helped organize its
inaugural $500 million bond, Bacchus said.  Like Canada  Bacchus compared the bank’s Russian strategy to the opening
of its first Canadian office in June of 2012.  “In Canada, since getting started last year, our impact
has been enormous,” he said. Jefferies led the hostile takeover
of Inmet Mining Corp. for First Quantum Minerals Ltd., and has
also “been active in high-yield financing,” arranging bond
sales for First Quantum and HudBay Minerals Inc., Bacchus said.  Jefferies’ expansion in  Europe  has “now been largely
executed,” according to Bacchus. “We have critical mass in the
places we want to be.”  Leucadia, based in New York, acquired Jefferies in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran in Moscow at 
 jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  