-- Jets’ Sanchez Targets Week 1 Return With Starting Job Unsettled
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-27T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/jets-sanchez-targets-week-1-return-with-starting-job-unsettled.html
Mark Sanchez  said his goal is to be
recovered from a right shoulder injury by the opening week of
the regular season. Whether he’ll be the  New York Jets ’ starting
quarterback even if healthy is still uncertain.  Sanchez, the Jets’ starter the past four National Football
League seasons, won’t play in the team’s final preseason game on
Aug. 29 after hurting his throwing shoulder. The injury means
that rookie Geno Smith may grab the starting role.  Jets coach  Rex Ryan  said yesterday that he’ll wait until
after the final preseason game to settle the quarterback
controversy. Sanchez said he’s focused on getting healthy and
not on who will be the starter.  “I felt like I was putting together a good camp, so it’s
an unfortunate thing,” Sanchez told reporters after sitting out
yesterday’s practice. “But there’s no time to gripe about it.
Just have to rehab as hard as I can. I know we have the best
trainers and they’re going to get me in the best position
possible to try and get back for the first week.”  The Jets open the regular season Sept. 8 at home against
the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers .  Sanchez, 26, repeatedly declined yesterday to give any
details of his injury or talk about his rehabilitation process.
The Jets officially have listed his status as day-to-day and
Sanchez says he plans to be ready to go by Week 1.  “That’s the goal, so we’ll just keep our fingers crossed
and take it day-to-day,” said Sanchez, who has committed an
NFL-high 52 turnovers over the past two seasons. “Every day
it’s getting a little better.”  Whose Advantage?  Ryan declined to say whether Sanchez would have the edge
for the starting job if he’s healthy in Week 1.  Sanchez has completed 28 of 42 passes for 366 yards, two
touchdowns and two interceptions during the preseason. The 22-year-old Smith, who hurt his ankle in the Jets’ preseason
opener, has connected on 22 of 37 passes for 246 yards, with one
touchdown and three interceptions.  “I’m not going to put myself or anybody in a box and say,
‘Well, specifically it’s going to be this or this based on
Mark’s injury, based on whatever, Geno’s ankle,’ whatever it
is,” Ryan said. “That’s why we’ll let it play out and when
we’re ready to name the starter, we will.”  Sanchez was injured late in the fourth quarter of the Jets’
preseason win against the Giants after replacing Smith, who was
intercepted three times.  “I feel like I’ve put together a great camp and it’s been
my best camp,” Sanchez said when asked about being the starter.
“That decision is going to be up to the coaches.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  