-- Jets’ Goodson Suspended Four Games for Substance-Abuse Violation
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-08-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/jets-goodson-suspended-four-games-for-substance-policy-breach.html
New York Jets running back Mike Goodson was suspended without pay for the first four games of
the regular season for violating the National Football League’s
substance-abuse policy.  Goodson, 26, signed a three-year, $6.9 million contract
with the Jets in March, two days after the team lost  Shonn Greene  as a free agent. Two months later, Goodson and a friend
were arrested and charged with possession of marijuana and a
handgun after a traffic stop in which Goodson was a passenger,
 CBS Sports reported , citing the New Jersey State Police.  Goodson hasn’t practiced with the Jets since the incident
and rejoined the team yesterday. He’ll be eligible to return to
the Jets’ active roster on Sept. 30, the day after their Week 4
game against the Tennessee Titans.  “I’ve been away from the team to take care of some
important personal things,” Goodson said in a statement. “The
time was helpful to me and, now that I am back, I am going to do
everything I can to contribute to the team.”  The Jets said in a statement that Goodson will be permitted
to attend meetings and do conditioning on an individual basis at
their practice facility during the suspension, though he won’t
be allowed to practice or play.  “While we welcome Mike back to the organization, we have
had direct conversations to make our expectations very clear as
we work together to help him move forward in a positive manner,
both on and off the field,” the Jets said in an e-mailed
statement.  Goodson is entering his fifth year in the NFL after playing
for the Carolina Panthers for three seasons and the Oakland
Raiders in 2012. He has gained 772 yards on 160 carries and
caught 59 passes for 524 yards in his career.  Also yesterday, the NFL suspended Minnesota Vikings
fullback Jerome Felton for the first three games of the regular
season for violating the league’s substance-abuse policy.  Felton made the Pro Bowl last season after helping Adrian Peterson rush for a league-leading 2,097 yards. He’ll be
eligible to return ahead of the Vikings’ Sept. 29 game against
the Pittsburgh Steelers in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in  New York  at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  