-- Jets, Giants Say Judge Allows Meadowlands Suit to Proceed
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2013-08-27T17:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/jets-giants-say-judge-allows-them-to-pursue-meadowlands.html
The National Football League’s  New
York  Jets and Giants can pursue a lawsuit against the developers
of a retail and entertainment center at New Jersey’s Meadowlands
Sports complex, a judge ruled.  Superior Court Judge Peter E. Doyne in Hackensack, New
Jersey, yesterday denied requests by the developers to dismiss
the case filed in May, which claims that letting the mall open
on Sunday game days would cause overwhelming traffic. The two
teams claim the New Jersey Sports and Exposition Authority
breached a 2006 cooperation agreement and the developers
interfered with that pact.  Doyne also let construction proceed on a plan by the
developers, including Triple Five Worldwide Development Co., to
build the project, now known as American Dream. Triple Five
claims it would build the world’s largest mall, with 7.5 million
square feet and 55 million annual visitors. Construction halted
several years ago on the project, previously known as Xanadu.  NJSEA claimed it didn’t break the agreement, arguing that
other parties made that decision and saying it found no breach
had occurred. The judge rejected this argument.  “Regardless of the NJSEA’s impressive linguistic
gymnastics, such sophistry cannot be countenanced,” according
to the opinion. “The NJSEA does not have the authority to bind
this court to a legal determination regarding a breach of the
NJSEA’s own contract.”  In a joint statement, the Giants and Jets said: “We look
forward to the case proceeding.”  Giants Stadium  American Dream is an outgrowth of Xanadu, which used to sit
next to the old Giants Stadium. When the stadium was torn down,
the teams collaborated in building the $1.6 billion facility
they share, MetLife Stadium, which opened in 2010.  “The teams agreed to Xanadu but have not agreed to
American Dream,” Doyne wrote. “Plaintiff has presented
scenarios where, should American Dream be fully operational,
operation and use of the stadium on game days could result in
severe adverse effects.”  The judge said the teams conceded they weren’t seeking to
block construction, which also includes a water park. He gave
them 20 days to modify a request for an injunction.  The teams can proceed on their interference claim against
the developers, the judge said. The court dismissed a previous
version of the teams’ suit a year ago, concluding it was
premature.  Developers Sued  The developers sued the teams for obstructing their plans
last month.  “The only thing ‘new’ is that the judge denied the team’s
request for an injunction and construction can/will go
forward,” Alan Marcus, a spokesman for developers including
Triple Five, Ameream LLC and other entities, said yesterday in
an e-mailed statement.  “The impact of the judge’s decision to let the case go
forward is that the teams must still prove there is an adverse
impact from the proposed water park and amusement park on game
day Sundays,” Marcus said.  The teams’ case is New Meadowlands Stadium Co. v. Triple
Five Group Ltd., BER-C-156-13, Bergen County, New Jersey,
Superior Court, Chancery Division. The developers’ case is
Ameream LLC v. New York Football Giants Inc., Bergen County, New
Jersey, Superior Court, Law Division (Hackensack).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at
   aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
David Voreacos in  Newark , New Jersey at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  