-- N.J. Shore Pays Most Since 2011 Awaiting Sandy Aid: Muni Credit
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-08-27T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/n-j-shore-pays-most-since-2011-awaiting-sandy-aid-muni-credit.html
Seven months after President  Barack Obama  approved $50.5 billion of aid to help rebuild communities
devastated by  Hurricane Sandy , the New Jersey beach town of
Manasquan has received about one-tenth of its cleanup costs.  It’s the same story up and down the 130-mile length of the
Jersey Shore, where localities have almost doubled their
borrowing, partly to pay for repairs until federal funds arrive.  Since Sandy struck Oct. 29, 42 Shore towns including
Manasquan, where the $664,000 median value of owner-occupied
housing is almost twice the state average, have sold about $398
million of short-term debt, data compiled by Bloomberg show. For
a similar period in 2011-2012, 31 such communities issued $225
million. They’re borrowing as  one-year  interest rates are close
to the highest since 2011.  “We desperately need to be reimbursed,” Donna M. Phelps,
an assistant to the borough administrator, wrote in an Aug. 14
letter to the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The next day,
Manasquan sold $3.44 million of notes due in 2014.  Towns along the coast, the backbone to New Jersey’s $40-billion-a-year tourism industry, expected hardship after Sandy,
the biggest Atlantic storm in history. What some didn’t
anticipate was a federal paperwork review so lengthy that they
are borrowing even as FEMA has set aside $813.3 million for New
Jersey and its local governments.  ‘Where’s Ours?’  “You read in the newspaper about some towns getting their
money and you say: Wait -- where’s ours?” said Joseph DeIorio,
administrator and chief financial officer of Manasquan, with
5,900 residents about 60 miles (97 kilometers) south of New
York. “We’re getting really antsy.”  Sandy killed more than 100 people in the U.S. and caused
about $60 billion of damages in New Jersey, New York and
 Connecticut . In New Jersey, it harmed or destroyed 346,000
homes, mostly on the coast. Governor Chris Christie projects it
will cost $36.9 billion to repair and prevent future damage.  Seven weeks after Sandy, Moody’s Investors Service gave
negative credit outlooks to four beach towns -- Belmar,
Lavallette, Long Beach Township and Sea Bright -- and cut
Seaside Heights to A3, its fourth-lowest investment grade. The
towns faced the loss of taxes from destroyed property, a
reliance on short-term borrowing and uncertain levels of federal
aid, a Moody’s report said.  Still Waiting  In June, FEMA agreed to raise the reimbursement of repair
costs to 90 percent from 75 percent. The agency has approved
just over half of New Jersey’s local-government claims for such
costs as personnel, debris removal and repairs, according to
Darrell Habisch, a FEMA spokesman. It had processed 4,692
project worksheets and had another 3,961 pending as of Aug. 19.  Reimbursement depends on the complexity of the project and
how quickly applicants provide documents to support the claims,
Habisch said in an e-mail. Each project involves a team of five
or six people who review bid comparisons, permits, contracts and
time sheets for anyone, including volunteers, involved in the
response and recovery, he said.  Long Beach Township, 25 miles north of Atlantic City, had
received $850,000 from FEMA as of Aug. 21, about 9 percent of
its costs, according to Mayor Joseph Mancini, a Republican.  “It’s a joke,” he said in an interview at Township Hall
on Aug. 8. “Allegedly the money is sitting somewhere, but FEMA
-- every day there’s somebody new coming into your office and I
ask the same question: ’Are you the one with the checkbook?’”  Summer Surge  Long Beach is the largest town on an 18-mile stretch of
shore communities called Long Beach Island that swells with
summer tourists. Moody’s cited the municipality’s widespread
Sandy damage and the loss of taxable property in a December
report that assigned a negative outlook to $2.2 million of
general-obligation debt rated Aa2, the third-highest step.  On March 19, Long Beach sold $7.6 million of unlimited
general-obligation notes maturing in one year at a yield of 0.5
percent, 0.22 percentage point above an index of benchmark
munis, data compiled by Bloomberg show. That spread was
unchanged from when the township sold $6.6 million of one-year
notes in March 2012.  Long Beach, with 3,000 year-round residents and a $23.7
million annual budget, plans to borrow as much as $10 million
more. It also intends to bill FEMA $13 million for repairs to
parks, sewage pumping stations and other infrastructure.  ‘Absolute Disgrace’  “It’s an absolute disgrace -- disgrace -- that we’re going
to have to go out and bond nine months after the money’s been
appropriated by Congress,” Mancini said.  “We can’t self-fund
anymore. Our pockets aren’t that deep.”  New Jersey localities are financing storm upgrades as debt
sold by the state and its municipalities is losing about 5
percent this year through Aug. 23, matching declines in the
broader $3.7 trillion municipal market, Barclays Plc data show.  The municipalities have the advantage of selling into the
best-performing segment of local bonds. Amid bets that a growing
economy will lead the Federal Reserve to reduce its bond buying,
short-term munis have earned 0.4 percent this year, while longer
maturities have lost at least 0.7 percent, according to Standard
& Poor’s data.  Christie, 50, a Republican who is seeking re-election in
November and may run for president in 2016, has staked his
political career on rebuilding. He has drawn criticism from some
national Republicans for praising Obama’s response to Sandy and
scolding party members in Congress for aid delays.  ‘F Word’  The governor told reporters in Camden on Aug. 21 that the
reimbursements will help towns avoid raising property taxes to
fund the repairs. FEMA is to blame for some delays, as are towns
that didn’t conform to federal requirements or submitted
incorrect documents, he said.  “Where it’s FEMA, we’re all over them, believe me,”
Christie said. “I’ve learned a new F word, it’s FEMA. I knew
the old one as some of you may know.”  Manasquan, in its Aug. 14 letter to FEMA, said it had
received $401,000 of reimbursements. The borough, with an annual
budget of $10.2 million, has spent $4.4 million on debris
removal, according to DeIorio.  On Aug. 15, Manasquan sold unlimited general-obligation
notes at a yield of 0.92 percent, or 0.58 percentage point above
an index of benchmark munis, Bloomberg data show. That
difference is almost half the 1.14 percentage-point spread when
the borough sold one-year notes in January 2010.  Christie was 5 miles north of Manasquan on May 23 to reopen
Belmar’s boardwalk. FEMA paid $9.2 million for the
reconstruction. Belmar also was counting on the agency to
replace as many as four oceanside pavilions, “part of the
character of the Jersey Shore,” Mayor Matt Doherty said.  Vulnerability View  The agency now considers such a project too vulnerable to
storms, said Doherty, a Democrat. Next month, the borough
council will vote on a $6.6 million bond issue to build larger,
multistory pavilions with a banquet hall and other concessions.
About 500 residents have petitioned against the project, saying
the plans and the borrowing should go up for public vote.  Moody’s in December assigned a negative outlook to $9.4
million of Belmar debt rated Aa3, fourth-highest. The borough
since has issued $26.2 million in notes.  “We have no idea how much money we’re going to get from
FEMA,” David Schneck, a 56-year-old Belmar resident who was an
unsuccessful Libertarian Party candidate for the state assembly
in 2011, said by phone Aug. 7. He signed the petition, he said,
and urged the borough to be mindful of its credit rating.  “We should take a deep breath and wait to see how the dust
settles,” he said. “These pavilions are not essential.”  Climbing Yields  In the market for new issues,  California  is set to offer
$764 million of general obligations today. It joins New York
City Housing Development Corp., which plans to sell $654.8
million of revenue bonds this week, in leading $6.2 billion of
long-term debt sales, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At  3.11 percent , yields on benchmark 10-year muni bonds are
the highest since April 2011, and compare with about  2.8 percent 
for similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields is about  110 percent , above the
five-year average of 101 percent. The higher the figure, the
cheaper municipal securities are relative to Treasuries.  Following is a pending sale:  Texas plans to offer $7.2 billion in tax- and revenue-anticipation notes as early as today to help manage its cash
flow in the fiscal year starting Sept. 1. The notes mature in
August 2014 and are rated SP-1+ by S&P, its highest short-term
credit grade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  