-- Napolitano: U.S. Risks ‘Major’ Cyber-Attack in the Future
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2013-08-27T14:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/napolitano-u-s-risks-major-cyber-attack-in-the-future.html
The U.S. will face a cyber-attack in
the future that will cause major disruption in the economy, the
outgoing Homeland Security Department chief said.  “Our country will, at some point, face a major cyber-event
that will have a serious effect on our lives, our economy, and
the everyday functioning of our society,” Janet Napolitano,
President  Barack Obama ’s top homeland security official since
2009, said in remarks prepared for her farewell speech today.  Napolitano, 55, announced last month that she would leave
her post as secretary of the department to become the next
president of the University of California system. She departs
after more than four years in a role that put her in the middle
of the debates about national security and immigration policy.  Napolitano, in her prepared remarks, ticked through the
accomplishments and lessons learned during her time atop the
department, which includes oversight of the Federal Emergency
Management Agency, U.S. Coast Guard, Secret Service, Immigration
and Customs Enforcement and the Transportation Security
Administration.  In the closing of her remarks, Napolitano laid out
recommendations for her successor, who has not been named by the
Obama administration. She listed the need to confront the
“evolving threat of terrorism, natural disasters and the need
for strong border security and immigration enforcement.”  She also called on the next agency to do more to protect
the U.S. from the cyber-attacks that have plagued public and
private institutions throughout her tenure.  “While we have built systems, protections and a framework
to identify attacks and intrusions, share information with the
private sector and across government, and develop plans and
capabilities to mitigate the damage, more must be done, and
quickly,” Napolitano said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  