-- NCAA’s Investments Hit $527 Million as Gains Reach 11%
-- B y   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-08-27T14:25:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/ncaa-s-investments-hit-527-million-as-gains-reach-11-.html
College sports’ governing body grew
its investment portfolio to $527 million for the year ended June
30, with an 11 percent gain in its $304.5 million quasi-endowment and an 8.8 percent return in its $222.5 million
operating reserve.  The  National Collegiate Athletic Association  generated $841
million in revenue in 2011-2012 and its biggest expense was the
record $522 million it distributed to schools for their
participation in the NCAA men’s basketball tournament and for
grants and scholarships. It spends an additional $110 million
running national championships in other sports, according to its
filing with the  Internal Revenue Service .  The average annual return for the three years ended June
30, 2012, was 10.8 percent in the quasi-endowment and 10 percent
in the operating reserve, according to data provided by the
NCAA. All U.S. college endowments reported an  average annual
return  of 10 percent during the same period, according to a
National Association of College and University Business
Officers-Commonfund study.  “We take a conservative view in terms of managing and
diversifying risk,”  David Lafiosca , the governing body’s
controller and managing director of financial operations, said
in an interview. “This is all membership money. We are not
going to hold it in cash, but we are not going to make silly
bets, either.”  The money is managed by a committee headed by Southern
Illinois University  Chancellor Rita Cheng  in consultation with
Hewitt EnnisKnupp, a division of  Aon Corp. (AON) , based in  Chicago .  The NCAA relies upon its 14-year, $10.8 billion men’s
basketball tournament television contract with  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner Broadcasting System and  CBS Corp. (CBS)  for most of its
television and marketing rights, accounting for about 84 percent
of its $841 million annual revenue.  Quasi-Endowment  To lessen its dependence on that single source, the
association started a quasi-endowment, and separately, an
operating reserve, so it could make payments to schools and
creditors if revenue unexpectedly dropped. The NCAA uses the
quasi-endowment to retain and invest its money.  Kathleen McNeely , the NCAA’s chief financial officer, said
the organization exceeds its benchmark indexes, among them, the
Dow Jones U.S. Total Stock Market Index, which returned 22
percent for the year ended June 30, 2013.  “If anything, we’re a little bit too conservative,”
McNeely said in an interview.  Investor concerns that the U.S. Federal Reserve will pare
back its unprecedented asset purchases has spurred a rout in the
 bond market  this year and has hurt stocks, especially in the
 emerging markets . That could weigh on next year’s return.  ‘Pretty Happy’  “The last quarter of 2013 was not good, and in most cases
our values went down. But overall, we are pretty happy,”
McNeely said. “You have to remember that we’re not buying a
municipal bond from  Detroit  or a stock from Apple. We are buying
market funds which already are balanced within the fund, and
that mitigates our risk.”  The NCAA said its operating reserve has averaged 8.4
percent the past three years through June 30, 2013, and 6
percent since its inception in 2004. The quasi-endowment
meanwhile, averaged 10 the past three years and 6 percent since
its inception, also in 2004.  McNeely wouldn’t provide a list of specific funds the NCAA
has invested in. The target allocation for the quasi-endowment
is 54 percent stocks, 36 percent fixed income and 10 percent
opportunistic strategies. The target for the operating reserve
is 40 percent stocks and 60 percent bonds.  Verne Sedlacek , chief executive officer at Commonfund, a
non-profit company that invests money for colleges and
universities, said it’s not out of the ordinary for tax-exempt
associations like the NCAA to hold such large sums of money.  Holding Money  The rule of thumb, he said, is to have six months to a
year’s worth of cash and reserves on hand.  “It’s based on how much risk you put on the revenue
stream,” Sedlacek said in an interview. “You need to be able
to do the job related to your mission, but ensure that you have
enough financial resources if something happens to your revenue
stream to cover a significant interruption.”  McNeely said the NCAA plans to increase the balance in the
quasi-endowment fund to $380 million by 2016, and to maintain a
minimum balance in the operating reserve of at least $84
million.  The association governs 1,076 U.S. schools in three
divisions. It has 502 employees in the national office, runs 89
national championships in 23 men’s and women’s sports, holds
governance meetings and enforces association rules.  Moody’s Change  In June, Moody’s revised its outlook on NCAA debt to
negative, saying it faced increased litigation and regulatory
risks over what constitutes amateur athletics. The negative
outlook also considered the long-term risk of alleged
improprieties related to enforcement of rules.  Ed O’Bannon, the college basketball player of the year in
1995, has filed a lawsuit challenging the rights of the NCAA,
athletic conferences and individual schools, to profit from
selling the rights to athletes’ likenesses for use in things
like videogames, television broadcasts and apparel sales. A win
for O’Bannon has the potential to cut the $6.4 billion in annual
revenue universities get from sports in half.  Among the association’s strengths, Moody’s listed the
NCAA’s investments, up 55 percent, since the fiscal year that
ended in 2008, and said that cash and investments cover direct
debt by more than 10 times.  College sports’ governing body doesn’t receive revenue from
football conference championship games, bowl games or the
football playoff system that will begin in the fall of 2014.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  