-- N.Y. Times, Twitter Domains Said Hacked by Syrian Group
-- B y   M i c h a e l   R i l e y   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-08-27T23:14:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/new-york-times-website-down-for-some-users.html
The  New York Times  and  Twitter Inc. 
had their Internet registrations hacked by the Syrian Electronic
Army, rendering at least parts of their sites inaccessible, said
a person with knowledge of the companies’ investigations.  The Syrian group disrupted traffic to the websites by
hacking into  Melbourne IT Ltd. (MLB) , the company that controls the
registration of the domains nytimes.com and twitter.co.uk, said
the person, who wasn’t authorized to speak about the matter and
asked not to be identified. That allowed hackers to control
traffic of  Internet users  trying to reach those sites.  Some users reported being redirected to the Syrian group’s
sites. Many were simply unable to access the pages at all. The
Syrian Electronic Army, which backs the country’s president,
Bashar Al-Assad, has also claimed responsibility for hacking the
Washington Post earlier this month and the Financial Times in
early May, redirecting readers to its own websites and videos.  A Twitter user claiming to represent the SEA posted images
today of a set of altered domain registrations for the Times,
Twitter and the  Huffington Post ’s U.K. site. The Times data
listed a Syrian e-mail address as the administrator’s contact
information.  The  New York  Times suspects that hackers rendered its site
unavailable for some users beginning about 3 p.m. New York time,
Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for New York Times Co., wrote in an
e-mail.  On its  website , Twitter said its domain registration
provider “experienced an issue in which it appears DNS records
for various organizations were modified,” including the
twimg.com domain it uses to host images. The original domain
record for that site has since been restored, and no user
information was affected, it said.  Huffington Post  The Huffington Post, owned by  AOL Inc. (AOL) , also experienced a
hack attempt and “minimal disruption of service,” said Rhoades Alderson, a spokesman for the online publisher.  Security officials at both the New York Times and Twitter
are investigating how the hackers were able to alter the domain-registration data, the person familiar with the investigations
said. The hackers could have gained access to  Melbourne  IT’s
corporate network through a breach or stolen the passwords of
administrators at the U.S. companies who have authority to
change the data.  Tony Smith, a spokesman for Melbourne IT, based in
Melbourne, didn’t immediately respond to a voicemail and e-mail
seeking comment.  While Twitter’s site was operating normally tonight,
twitter.co.uk was inaccessible.  The Times has been increasingly focusing on its website for
growth as the industry reels from a print-advertising slump.
Digital subscribers to the Times and its international edition
increased 35 percent to 699,000 at the end of the last quarter.
The company averaged about 14 new paying online readers every
hour from the beginning of January to the end of June.  On Aug. 14, the newspaper’s  website  and e-mail systems
crashed for more than two hours because of an internal
malfunction with its servers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Riley in Washington at 
 michaelriley@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  