-- New Mexico Judge Rules Gay Couples Can Wed in Albuquerque
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2013-08-27T16:10:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/new-mexico-judge-rules-gay-couples-can-wed-in-albuquerque.html
New Mexico gay couples won a court
ruling ordering county clerks in  Albuquerque  and  Santa Fe  to
issue marriage licenses in a lawsuit brought by same-sex couples
who had previously been turned away.  Judge Alan Malott in Albuquerque ruled yesterday that
denying gay couples the right to marry violates the New Mexico
constitution. State rules require couples wishing to marry to
obtain a license and doesn’t define or limit the definition of
“couples” to heterosexual, he said.  New Mexico, whose voters chose a Republican governor in
2010 and President  Barack Obama , a Democrat, in the past two
presidential elections, is the only U.S. state that has no law
related to same-sex marriage or civil unions. The  American Civil
Liberties Union  filed a lawsuit this year on behalf of gay
couples who were denied marriage licenses.  Malott said the under state’s domestic affairs law, which
says  applications for marriage licenses must be filled in by a
“male applicant” and “female applicant,” it’s “arguable”
that gay marriage is illegal.  Yet it’s “beyond argument” that the state constitution
says equal rights can’t be denied on the basis of sex, and
“implying conditions of sexual orientation on one’s right” to
marry violates the constitution, Malott said.  ‘Intolerable Pattern’  Gays and lesbians in  New Mexico  “have endured a long
history of discrimination,” and  denying the right to marry
“continues this unfortunate, intolerable pattern,” he ruled.  “Our state is now on the brink of joining the growing list
of states who live and honor the values of family, liberty and
love,” Peter Simonson, executive director of the ACLU in New
Mexico, said in an e-mail. “Every family in this state is made
richer by this step toward justice for all.”  Micah McCoy, an ACLU spokesman, said it isn’t clear what
effect the ruling will have on other counties in New Mexico.  In June, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the 1996
Defense of Marriage Act that denied federal benefits to same-sex
couples legally married in states that allowed it. The court
also reinstated a federal judge’s order allowing gay marriages
in  California .  The New Mexico case is Griego v. Oliver, D-202-CV-2013-2757, Second Judicial District Court, County of
Bernalillo (Albuquerque, New Mexico).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  