-- New York’s Pension Rates Decline for First Time in Five Years
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2013-08-27T15:45:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/new-york-s-pension-rates-decline-for-first-time-in-five-years.html
The rate  New York  state and its
local governments pay to the $160.4 billion pension fund will
drop for the first time in five years, Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  said.  DiNapoli, the sole trustee of the plan, sets the rates
employers pay every year to ensure obligations to retirees can
be met. Rates paid by government employers outside  New York City 
for the fiscal year that starts April 1 will fall to 20.1
percent of wages from 20.9 percent for most employees, and to
27.6 percent from 28.9 for police and firefighters, according to
a statement e-mailed by DiNapoli today.  “The New York State Common Retirement Fund’s strong gains
over the last four years have mitigated some of the impact of
the financial market collapse of 2008-2009,” DiNapoli said.
“Strong  investment performance , along with revision in
actuarial smoothing, has lowered the employer contribution
rate.”  Under a new accounting method, the state assumes the entire
fund will get the same annual rate of return, he said.
Previously, the pension had separated assets into equities and
non-equities when computing the assumed return.  New York’s counties, cities and towns, particularly those
upstate, have been struggling to meet rising pension costs since
the recession that ended in 2009 sapped them of property taxes.
They were further restricted after Democratic Governor  Andrew Cuomo  pushed through a 2 percent property tax cap in 2011. The
lower rates will relieve them of some costs, which have caused
firings and credit-rating downgrades.  The fund provides retirement benefits to more than 1
million employees and retirees from state and local governments
outside New York City, which has separate retirement plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  