-- Nissan Sets Goal of Introducing First Self-Driving Cars by 2020
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2013-08-28T01:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/nissan-sets-goal-of-bringing-first-self-driving-cars-by-2020.html
Nissan Motor Co. (7201) , which grabbed a
global lead in electric car sales with its Leaf hatchback, wants
to do the same thing with self-driving vehicle technology and
plans to offer such models by 2020.  “We will be able to bring multiple, affordable fully
autonomous vehicles to the market by 2020,” Andy Palmer,
Nissan’s executive vice president, told reporters yesterday at a
briefing in Irvine,  California . Such systems mean “frustrating
and unproductive commutes could become a thing of the past,” he
said.  Just as the Yokohama, Japan-based carmaker set a goal of
becoming the world’s biggest seller of battery-powered autos,
Nissan wants to be a leader in the move to make cars safer by
adding electronic systems capable of preventing accidents and
injuries. The systems also can reduce traffic jams by rerouting
vehicles, which helps curb emissions of carbon dioxide.  Nissan has sold more than 75,000 Leaf electric vehicles
worldwide since late 2010. Including alliance partner  Renault SA (RNO) 
of  France , they have delivered about 100,000 electric cars.  The company showed off self-driving Leaf models at a former
U.S. military base in Irvine yesterday, with the robotic cars
ferrying passengers in simulated urban driving conditions.  ‘Already Here’  Technology underpinning autonomous autos, including
adaptive cruise control, electronic steering and throttle
controls, is already available, and added sensors and road-monitoring capabilities are being refined, Palmer said.  “The technology to create self-driving cars is already
here,” said Karl Brauer, senior industry analyst for Kelley
Blue Book. “As sci-fi as it sounds, self-driving cars that
don’t ever crash, reduce traffic congestion and make valet
attendants obsolete are coming.”  Nissan,  Japan ’s second-largest automaker, is developing its
system in-house, though it’s willing to work with companies
including  Google Inc. (GOOG) , which has been promoting driverless car
systems in recent years.  “I don’t preclude the possibility of working with Google,
or anyone else for that matter,” Palmer, who leads vehicle
development, told reporters. Nissan has contacts with Google on
various matters, he said, without elaborating.  A difference in approach between Nissan and Google is that
Nissan’s system doesn’t need to be linked to an Internet-based
data system, said Mitsuhiko Yamashita, the company’s executive
vice president for research and development.  “We don’t count on infrastructure so much. All the
technology is in the cars,” Yamashita told reporters yesterday.
“We are trying to get to crash-free, fatality-free vehicles.”  Nissan’s North American operations are based in Franklin,
 Tennessee , near Nashville.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Irvine , California, at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  