-- OGX to Keep Exxon Partnerships as It Sheds Nine Brazil Licenses
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-08-27T14:41:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/ogx-to-keep-exxon-partnerships-as-it-sheds-nine-brazil-licenses.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
the worst performing oil stock in emerging markets, said it will
return nine oilfield licenses in Brazil while retaining those it
has in partnership with other producers.  OGX “concluded that it’s not recommendable, at the current
time, to assume exploratory risk in new areas where it hasn’t
formed ventures with other companies,” the Rio de Janeiro-based
explorer said in a Brazilian regulatory filing today. In a
government auction in May, OGX picked up the nine blocks plus
four licenses with partners  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of the U.S.,
France’s  Total SA (FP)  and Brazil’s  QGEP Participacoes SA. (QGEP3)   Returning the assets is part of a business strategy
revaluation after the company said July 1 it wouldn’t develop
three fields. OGX also said at the time that it may shut its
only oil-producing asset, the Tubarao Azul field, next year. OGX
said Aug. 14 it hired Blackstone Group LP for “ongoing efforts
to assess its capital structure.”  OGX has declined 83 percent this year, more than any other
emerging-market oil company worth at least $100 million,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock fell 7.4
percent to 75 centavos cents at 11:28 a.m. in  Sao Paulo  today.  Entrepreneur Eike Batista’s flagship company said it will
have to pay a fine of about 3.4 million reais ($1.4 million) for
returning the oil blocks. Brazil’s oil regulator, known as ANP,
can now reassign the blocks to the second highest bidders.
Batista’s company had promised investors OGX would pump 730,000
barrels a day by 2015.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in Rio de Janeiro at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  