-- Old Mutual to Expand Products in Kenya as Industry Grows
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k
-- 2013-08-27T05:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/old-mutual-to-expand-products-in-kenya-as-industry-grows-1-.html
Old Mutual Plc (OML) , the U.K.’s third-largest insurer by market value, expects to sell more life-insurance products and begin offering general coverage in Kenya,
where premium income may double by 2017.  The company, based in  London , will use the 31 branches and
100 service outlets it acquired last month when it bought  Faulu
Kenya Ltd. , a microlender, to increase sales of life-insurance
policies, said Peter Muthoka, chairman of Old Mutual Asset
Managers (Kenya) Ltd. Plans are being drafted to enter the
general-insurance industry, he said in an Aug. 21 interview,
without specifying a timeframe.  “We are talking about bancassurance, that is what is going
to help in selling our products,” said Muthoka, 70, a former
chairman of  Kenya  Commercial Bank Ltd. “The growth in the
economy coupled with financial awareness is expected to increase
uptake of insurance products.”  Total premiums in Kenya’s insurance industry are forecast
to grow to 227.5 billion shillings ($2.6 billion) by 2017 from
116.3 billion shillings last year, according to Business Monitor
International, or BMI, the London-based research group. The
economy, East Africa’s largest, is forecast to grow by 5.8
percent this year from 4.6 percent in 2012, according to the
government.  Life premiums per capita are expected to grow 75 percent to
1,553 shillings in the next five years, BMI said in a report
last month. Non-life premiums are forecast to expand 70 percent
to 3,109 shillings, bringing total income for that portion of
the industry to 151.7 billion shillings by 2017, it said.  Beyond Life  Some of the products being considered include cover for the
oil, gas and marine industries, Muthoka said. Kenya is expected
to become an oil exporter in 2016, following  Tullow Oil Plc (TLW) ’s
discovery of crude last year.  The company also plans to begin operations in Uganda and
Tanzania, to tap into the economic expansion in the two nations.  “I believe that Kenya and the wider East African region
hold great potential to enable us to further deepen life
insurance penetration, which is still at its emerging stages,”
Muthoka said.  Old Mutual already has operations in South Africa, where it
was founded 168 years ago,  Namibia ,  Zimbabwe ,  Swaziland , Malawi,
Botswana and recently Nigeria and  Ghana .  Loss Narrows  In Kenya, Old Mutual Life Assurance Co.’s annual loss
narrowed to 39 million shillings in 2012 from 200 million
shillings a year earlier, attributable to fair-value gains on
investments and improved premium income. Old Mutual Asset
Managers, Kenya’s largest fund manager, had assets valued at
more than 90 billion shillings in June 2013, compared with more
than 80 billion shillings a year earlier, Muthoka said.  “Old Mutual Kenya will play a crucial role as the group
turns its attention to growing the business in  Africa ,
particularly East Africa,” he said.  Shares in the London-listed financial services company
climbed 1.1 percent yesterday to 189.10 pence, boosting its
year-to-date gain to 6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  