-- Hollande Revamps French Pensions With Longer Working Lives
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-08-27T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/hollande-revamps-french-pensions-with-longer-working-lives.html
President Francois Hollande will
lengthen the number of years of required work to achieve a
French state pension as part of an overhaul of the retirement
system intended to trim the  deficit .  French workers will have to contribute to the system for 43
years in 2035, up from 41 years currently, Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said yesterday. Contributions by both employees and
employers will rise starting next year, though the government
will reduce other payroll charges in an effort to contain labor
costs.  “There isn’t a retirement reform on one side and economic
policy on the other,” Ayrault said in televised comments from
his office in Paris. “Our goal is growth. The place of work in
our social model is essential. We’re going to reform charges
related to family policy so that they’ll weigh less on growth.
This will happen in 2014. There’ll be no increase in labor costs
next year.”  The pledge to reduce other charges was key to winning
support from Medef,  France ’s biggest business lobby, and keep
wages in check at a time when Hollande is struggling to revive
an economy that the finance ministry expects will  barely grow 
this year.  “The prime minister has extended an olive branch on social
charges and labor costs,” Medef President Pierre Gattaz said
after meeting Ayrault. “If it results in a cut in charges,
‘‘I’d say, ‘bravo.’’’  The plans are aimed at eliminating the 20 billion-euro ($27
billion) deficit facing the pension system in 2020 and keep its
accounts in balance until 2035, when the impact of the post war
baby boom will begin to fade.  ‘‘This is an important step,’’ said Michel Martinez, an
economist at Societe Generale in Paris. ‘‘Companies and economic
competitiveness are protected.’’  France’s effective retirement age would be about 66 in 2035
under the plan, Martinez estimates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vidya Root at 
 vroot@bloomberg.net  