-- Hollande Edges Toward Pensions Revamp With Offer on Tax
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2013-08-27T11:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/hollande-edges-toward-pensions-revamp-with-offer-on-tax.html
President  Francois Hollande  won
support from France’s biggest business lobby for a revamp of the
pension system by offering the possibility of a cut in payroll
taxes to employers.  Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault made the proposal late
yesterday to representatives of the lobby group,  Medef , in
return for employers accepting an increase in pension charges.
Working lives would also be lengthened as part of the package.  “The prime minister has extended an olive branch on social
charges and labor costs,” Medef President Pierre Gattaz said
after meeting Ayrault in Paris. If it results in a cut in
charges, “I’d say, ‘bravo.”’  The remarks suggest that Hollande’s government may have
overcome opposition from one key player in the talks, which are
aimed at eliminating the 20 billion-euro ($27 billion) deficit
facing the pension system in 2020 if no action is taken. They
also underline how the Socialist president is seeking to steer
the French economy toward improved competitiveness and growth.  Ayrault is holding his second day of talks with unions and
Hollande’s cabinet will present its plans formally on Sept. 18.
Ayrault hasn’t said how such a payroll-tax cut would be
financed, though one possibility would be to raise the CSG tax
on incomes. A spokesman for the prime minister declined to
comment further, saying the talks are continuing.  The government has yet to win support from all unions.
Thierry Lepaon, head of the  CGT union , said today that Ayrault
may be conceding too much to employers.  “This reform isn’t equitable in terms of the efforts asked
of the bosses and workers,” Lepaon said on  France  2 television.
“The government is more attentive to what employers are saying.
It has a right ear that is undoubtedly more sensitive than its
left one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  