-- Orange Joins BMW in Selling Bonds as Issuance Surges in Europe
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2013-08-27T14:46:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/orange-joins-bmw-in-selling-bonds-as-issuance-surges-in-europe.html
Orange SA (ORA) ,  France ’s largest phone
company, and luxury carmaker  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  led
bond sales in Europe in the busiest day for non-financial
corporate issuance in almost two months.  American Honda Finance Corp., a unit of the Japanese
carmaker, marketed its first euro-denominated notes since 2009,
according to a person familiar with the deal. Issuance from non-financial companies totaled 3.5 billion euros ($4.7 billion)
today, the most since July 2, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Borrowers are returning to the market before “a whole host
of uncertainties coming up in September,” according to Hans Lorenzen, a credit strategist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
 Germany  goes to the polls on Sept. 22 as Chancellor Angela
Merkel tries to maintain a majority with her current coalition
and the Federal Reserve may begin reducing stimulus as early as
next month.  “People aren’t buying because they love the outlook, but
because they have money to put to work, favoring low-risk
names,” said Lorenzen.  The cost of insuring corporate bonds against losses rose
for a second day, with the Markit iTraxx Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 125 companies with investment-grade ratings
increasing 5 basis points to 107 basis points at 3:14 p.m. in
 London , the highest since July 12. The Markit iTraxx Crossover
Index of 50 companies with mostly speculative-grade ratings
climbed 24 basis points to 437 basis points, the biggest same-day jump since June 20.  New Bonds  Orange raised 1.5 billion euros in a two-part bond sale.
The Paris-based company, previously known as France Telecom,
sold 850 million euros of five-year notes to yield 60 basis
points more than the mid-swap rate and 650 million euros of
securities due January 2024 offering a spread of 100 basis
points more than swaps. A spokesman for Orange in Paris, who
asked not to be named citing company policy, declined to comment
on the bond sale.  BMW sold 500 million euros of three-year floating-rate
notes to yield 22 basis points more than the three-month euro
interbank offered rate as well as 750 million euros of seven-year fixed-rate bonds to yield 35 basis points more than swaps.  “This is a completely normal part of our business, which
occurs on a regular basis,” said Bill McAndrews, a spokesman
for BMW in Munich.  American Honda, the Torrance, California-based North
American unit of Honda Motor Co., issued 750 million euros of
six-year notes to yield 35 basis points more than swaps.  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and Landwirtschaftliche Rentenbank are also
marketing bonds in euros.  The average spread on  investment-grade  corporate bonds
narrowed 6.7 basis points to 78.3 basis points more than swaps,
the tightest since May 31, Bloomberg index data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in Madrid at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  