-- Batista Injects Cash in Shipbuilder While Shedding Oilfields
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2013-08-27T21:05:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/osx-to-exercise-part-of-eike-batista-put-amid-restructuring-1-.html
OSX Brasil SA (OSXB3) , Latin America’s
worst-performing stock this year, will use part of a put option
pledged by controlling shareholder  Eike Batista  as the
entrepreneur’s oil company returns exploration licenses to cut
costs.  OSX’s board “approved the exercising of the put option for
the equivalent in reais of as much as $50 million,” the
shipbuilding company said in a Brazilian regulatory filing
today. Batista will continue to hold at least 50 percent of the
company, OSX said in the filing. Batista gave OSX the right to
sell to him as much as $1 billion of its stock at 40.14 reais
apiece until March 2014. OSX previously exercised $620 million
of the option.  Minutes after the shipbuilder’s announcement today,
Batista’s oil company,  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA (OGXP3) ,
released a separate regulatory filing saying it will return nine
oil block licenses it was awarded by the government in an
auction in May. OGX, which is seeking to cut costs, will keep
stakes in licenses it has in partnerships with other companies.  “The bad news about OGX contaminates the other companies”
controlled by Batista,  Pedro Galdi , chief strategist at Sao
Paulo-based brokerage SLW Corretora, said in a telephone
interview today. “OSX’s news is good but not good enough to
impact the shares.”  Platform Arrival  OSX dropped 21 percent to close at 99 centavos in Sao Paulo
trading. The stock has  declined  90 percent this year, the most
among 710 Latin American companies worth at least $100 million,
according to data collected by Bloomberg. OGX slid 15 percent to
69 centavos.  The shipbuilder, based in Rio de Janeiro, said Aug. 23 that
it had canceled a contract with one of its largest suppliers as
part of a corporate restructuring. It also said that Marcelo Gomes, who was previously an external adviser to the company on
the restructuring, would take over as chief executive officer
and that its second floating production, storage and off-loading
vessel, or FPSO, had arrived in  Brazil . The platform arrived in
Rio on Aug. 24 from Singapore, according to Bloomberg vessel
tracking data.  Blackstone Hired  The vessel will be used at the Tubarao Martelo field, in
which Petroliam Nasional Bhd. acquired a stake this year. OGX
said July 1 that it wouldn’t develop three other fields as
planned and would redefine its business strategy. OGX also said
then that it may shut its only oil-producing asset, the Tubarao
Azul field, next year.  On Aug. 14 OGX said it hired Blackstone Group LP for
“ongoing efforts to assess its  capital structure .”  In the May auction, OGX picked up the nine blocks plus four
licenses with partners  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  of the U.S., France’s
 Total SA (FP)  and Brazil’s  QGEP Participacoes SA. (QGEP3)   In today’s filing, OGX said it “concluded that it’s not
recommendable, at the current time, to assume exploratory risk
in new areas where it hasn’t formed ventures with other
companies.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  