-- Toyota Avoided Overpromising With Brake Override: Witness
-- B y   V a l e r i e   R e i t m a n
-- 2013-08-27T20:18:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/toyota-avoided-overpromising-with-brake-override-witness.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  avoided marketing
its brake-override system as “Safe Stop” because of concern
that name might promise more than the mechanism could deliver
for driver safety, a company executive told a California jury.  Toyota’s chief executive officer for  North America , James Lentz, testified today in a lawsuit filed by relatives of a
woman whose Camry sped out of control and hit a tree after she
was hit by another vehicle in August 2009. The plaintiffs
contend, and Toyota denies, that the crash could have been
avoided if her car had been equipped with brake override.  Lentz was asked by a lawyer for the plaintiffs why the
company chose “Smart Stop” instead of “Safe Stop” as a
marketing phrase to describe an override system that
automatically reduces engine power when the brake pedal and the
accelerator pedal are applied simultanteously under certain
driving conditions. Internal documents show “Safe Stop” was a
contender for the name, lawyer Garo Mardirossian said.  “I made clear to the marketing department that it had to
be something that didn’t overpromise,” Lentz said. “Safe Stop
or Sure Stop was overpromising because it wouldn’t necessarily
stop the acceleration in all cases.”  The case at trial is the first of about 85 personal-injury
and wrongful-death lawsuits consolidated in  Los Angeles  Superior
Court. Toyota, based in Toyota City,  Japan , settled economic-loss claims by U.S. drivers after recalling more than 10 million
cars worldwide in 2009 and 2010, in a settlement lawyers for
drivers valued at $1.63 billion.  Accelerator Pedals  That recall followed complaints of sudden, unintended
acceleration, including stuck accelerator pedals and floor mats
that would shift position and get wedged under the gas pedal.  The 2006 Camry that Noriko Uno drove until her fatal
accident wasn’t part of the 2009 and 2010 Toyota recalls for
floor mats and gas pedal modifications. Toyota also installed
brake override system software on those recalled models, and
began making making brake override systems standard on new
models.  Mardirossian has argued that Toyota installed the brake
override software in several European models in the early 2000s,
including the best-selling Corolla and other compact models, and
could easily and cheaply have installed it in the U.S. models,
including the higher-priced Camry that Uno purchased in October
2005.  Lentz, who is head of Toyota’s North American operations,
said today that he was only aware of one model in  Europe  which
offered the brake override system.  Video Depositions  Toyota last week lost a bid to keep Lentz from taking the
witness stand. The company argued that previously made video
depositions of Lentz should suffice.  California Superior Court Judge Lee Smalley Edmon ruled
that the video recording was for pretrial evidence-sharing
“purposes only” and that “there’s no question there is a
difference ‘‘between playing a video- taped deposition and
testimony in person.’’  The case is part of In re Toyota Motor Cases, JCCP4621,
California Superior Court, Los Angeles County (Los Angeles).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Valerie Reitman in Los Angeles state court at
 valeriereitman@yahoo.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  