-- Partner Sinks as Shekel Falls on Syria: Israeli Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-08-28T08:07:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/partner-sinks-as-shekel-falls-on-syria-israeli-overnight.html
Israeli stocks slid to a six-week
low in New York, led by  Partner Communications Co. (PTNR)  and  Cellcom
Israel Ltd. (CEL) , as prospects for a U.S. military strike on Syria
increased concern tensions in the Middle East will escalate.  The Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index of the most-traded
Israeli shares in New York dropped 3.3 percent as 24 of its 25
stocks fell. American depositary receipts of Partner plunged 8.4
percent, while Cellcom sank the most in 11 months.  Gazit-Globe
Ltd. (GZT)  decreased 5.1 percent after net income slumped.  Gilat
Satellite Networks Ltd. (GILT)  traded at the widest discount to its Tel
Aviv shares among dual-listed companies. The shekel sank the
most among 13 Middle East currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Israeli shares followed global stocks lower as U.S.
Secretary of State John Kerry said yesterday that President
 Barack Obama  believes there must be accountability for the
“moral obscenity” of using chemical weapons in  Syria . Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu vowed in a televised statement
yesterday that his country would “respond powerfully” if it
discerns any attempt to harm it.  “The tension with Syria is bringing the market down,”
Elah Alkalay, an analyst at IBI- Israel  Brokerage & Investment
Ltd., said by phone from Tel Aviv yesterday. “The concern is
that if the western countries, particularly the U.S., decide to
enter the military conflict with Syria, there will be a
retaliation against Israel.”  Netanyahu met yesterday with top security officials as the
U.S. and allies discussed how to respond to an alleged chemical
attack outside Damascus that they blame on Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad. Syrian and Iranian officials said this week
that a U.S. attack on Syria may draw retaliation against Israel.  Kuwait Invasion  Israel has been caught in similar crossfire in the past.
During the first Gulf War in 1991, Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein
fired Scud missiles at the Jewish state after the U.S. attacked
 Iraq  for invading  Kuwait .  The Bloomberg Israel-US gauge sank to 93.69, the lowest
level since July 11. Israel’s TA-25 benchmark stock index add
0.3 percent to 1,159.34 at 11:04 a.m. in Tel Aviv.  Partner, the country’s second-largest mobile operator,
plunged the most since Oct. 23, to $7.05 in New York. Trading
volume that was almost twice the average of the past 90 days.
The Tel Aviv shares this morning narrowed the discount,
declining 0.4 percent to 26.03, or $7.10. The company said
profit plunged 83% as competition cut into its subscriber base.
Cellcom, the second-largest mobile carrier, fell 2.1 percent in
Israel today after U.S. shares sank 7.4 percent to $10.31.  Gazit-Globe, a real estate holding company, fell to $12.05,
the lowest since Dec. 11. Second-quarter  net income  dropped to
60 million shekels ($16.4 million) from 288 million shekels a
year earlier. The Tel Aviv stock this morning dropped 1 percent.  Gilat, an Israeli defense company, sank 4.2 percent to
$4.60, extending a five-day plunge to 11 percent. The Tel Aviv
shares followed today, declining 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  