-- People Don’t Fear Climate Change Enough
-- B y   C a s s   R .   S u n s t e i n
-- 2013-08-27T13:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/people-don-t-fear-climate-change-enough.html
With respect to the science of
 climate change , many experts regard the Intergovernmental Panel
on Climate Change as the world’s authoritative institution. A
draft summary of its forthcoming report was  leaked last week . It
describes the panel’s growing confidence that climate change is
real, that it is a result of human action, and that if the world
continues on its current course, it will face exceedingly
serious losses and threats (including a significant rise in sea
levels by century’s end).  While the draft report  states  these conclusions with
unprecedented conviction, they are broadly consistent with the
panel’s judgments from the past two decades, which raises an
obvious question: Why have so many nations (including China and
the U.S., the world’s leading greenhouse-gas emitters) not done
more in  response ?  There are many answers. Skeptics say that the IPCC is
biased and wrong. Companies whose economic interests are at
stake continue to fight against regulatory controls. The leaders
of some nations think that if they acted unilaterally to reduce
their emissions, they would impose significant costs on their
citizens without doing much to reduce climate change. Especially
in a difficult economic period, they don’t think it makes sense
to act on their own.  To this extent, the real  challenge  lies in producing an
international agreement. It isn’t easy to obtain a consensus on
the timing and expense of reductions, especially because
developing nations (including  China ) insist that developed
nations (including the U.S.) are obliged to take the most costly
steps toward reducing emissions.  Psychological Barriers  All of these positions play a major role. But we should not
disregard purely psychological factors. An understanding of what
human beings fear -- and what they do not -- helps to explain
why nations haven’t insisted on more significant emissions
reductions.  The first obstacle is that people tend to evaluate risks by
way of “the availability heuristic,” which leads them to
assess the probability of harm by asking whether a readily
available example comes to mind. An act of  terrorism , for
example, is likely to be both available and salient, and hence
makes people fear that another such event will occur (whether it
is likely to or not). So, too, a recent crime or accident can
activate attention and significantly inflate people’s assessment
of risk.  By contrast, climate change is difficult to associate with
any particular tragedy or disaster. To be sure, many scientists
think that climate change makes extreme weather events, such as
 Hurricane Sandy , substantially more likely. But it is hard to
prove that climate change “caused” any particular event, and
as a result, the association tends to be at best speculative in
many people’s minds.  Second, people tend to be especially focused on risks or
hazards that have an identifiable perpetrator, and for that
reason produce outrage. Warmer temperatures are a product not of
any particular human being or group, but the interaction between
nature and countless decisions by countless people. There are no
obvious devils or demons -- no individuals who intend to create
the harms associated with climate change. For terrorism, a “we-they” narrative fits the facts; in the context of climate
change, those who are the solution might well also be, or seem
to be, the problem. In these circumstances, public outrage is
much harder to fuel.  Third, human beings are far more attentive to immediate
threats than to long-term ones. Behavioral scientists have
emphasized that in their private lives, people sometimes display
a form of myopia. They may neglect the future, seeing it as a
kind of foreign country, one they may not ever visit. For this
reason, they might fail to save for retirement, or they might
engage in risk-taking behavior (such as smoking or unhealthy
eating) that will harm their future selves.  Future Threat  In a political context, citizens might demand protection
against a risk that threatens them today, tomorrow or next
month. But if they perceive climate change as mostly a threat to
future generations -- if significant sea-level rises seem to be
decades away -- they are unlikely to have a sense of urgency.  Climate change lacks other characteristics that spur public
concern about risks. It is gradual rather than sudden. The idea
of warmer climates doesn’t produce anger, revulsion or disgust.
Depletion of the  ozone layer  was probably the most closely
analogous environmental concern; public attention to that
problem was easier to mobilize because of fears of a huge rise
in skin cancer.  In this light, it should not be surprising if people don’t
get much exercised by the IPCC’s forthcoming report. All the
obstacles are daunting -- skepticism about the science, economic
self-interest, and the difficulties of designing cost-effective
approaches and obtaining an international agreement. But the
world is unlikely to make much progress on climate change until
the barrier of human psychology is squarely addressed.  (Cass R. Sunstein, the Robert Walmsley University professor
at  Harvard Law School , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the
former administrator of the White House Office of Information
and Regulatory Affairs, the co-author of “Nudge” and author of
“Simpler: The Future of Government.”)  To contact the writer of this article:
Cass R. Sunstein at  csunstei@law.harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 