-- Philippine Stocks Sink to 2-Month Low on State Spending Concern
-- B y   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-08-27T07:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/philippine-stocks-sink-to-2-month-low-on-state-spending-concern.html
Philippine stocks fell the most in
Asia, sending the benchmark index to a two-month low, amid
concern that protests over discretionary government budgets will
slow state spending and weigh on economic growth.  Philippine Long Distance Telephone Co. (TEL) , the nation’s
biggest company by market value, sank to a six-week low and
 Ayala Corp. (AC) , owner of the country’s largest property developer,
plunged to the lowest level since December.  SM Investments
Corp. (SM) , owner of the nation’s largest shopping-mall operator and
biggest grocery chain, slid to an eight-month low.  The  Philippine Stock Exchange Index (PCOMP)  lost 4 percent to
5,916.99 at the 3:30 p.m. close in Manila, the lowest level
since June 25. The market was closed for a holiday yesterday.
About 60,000 people gathered in the Philippine capital yesterday
to protest the misuse of public funds after a government report
this month found discretionary budgets from 2007 to 2009 were
spent on dubious projects. State spending accounted for about
8.1 percent of the Philippine economy in the fourth quarter of
2012, government figures show.  “There is concern that disbursement of government funds
and implementation of state projects will further slow because
of complaints over the abuse of discretionary funds,” said
Allan Yu, a Manila-based vice president at  Metropolitan Bank &
Trust (MBT)  Co., which oversees about $8.4 billion.  Philippine President  Benigno Aquino  said in a televised
speech on Aug. 23 he would abolish discretionary budgets for
lawmakers and that revelations of the misuse of public money are
“shocking.” Senators and congressmen had access to 24.8
billion pesos ($561 million) this year through the Priority
Development Assistance Fund.  Foreign Outflows  Aquino said funding for local district projects will come
from the national budget beginning next year.  “Every line, peso and project will be scrutinized, just
like all the other programs of your government,” he said.  Overseas investors sold Philippine shares for six straight
days through Aug. 23, withdrawing $200 million, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The PSE index has dropped 11 percent
this month and the MSCI Southeast  Asia  Index has also lost 11
percent amid concern that capital outflows will accelerate as
the U.S. Federal Reserve moves closer to paring its bond-buying
program.  The Philippines, Thailand and Indonesia led a four-year
rally in global stocks through May as growing local economies
sent corporate profits to record highs and Fed stimulus spurred
international investors to seek riskier assets.  Gross domestic product in the Philippines increased 7.8
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, the fastest
expansion among 17 Asia Pacific economies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Investors are concerned heightened scrutiny over
government spending, while positive in the long term, will have
a drag in the short term,” said  Jonathan Ravelas , the chief
market strategist at BDO Unibank Inc. in Manila. “This protest
can have a negative effect.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  