-- Playboy Ratings Cut on Loan-Covenant Breach Risk, S&P Says
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n
-- 2013-08-27T19:55:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/playboy-debt-ratings-cut-on-loan-covenant-breach-risk-s-p-says.html
Playboy Enterprises Inc., the men’s
magazine publisher, had its debt ratings cut by  Standard &
Poor’s , four months after it got $185 million in loans.  The company’s corporate credit  rating  was lowered to CCC+,
one level down from B-, and the grade on its senior-secured debt
was cut to B-, the New York-based ratings firm said. Playboy is
at risk of violating covenants in its financing pact, related to
its interest expense and debt relative to earnings that may
crimp the company’s ability to access its $10 million revolving
 credit line , S&P said.  In April, the  Beverly Hills , California-based company
reduced the rate on the $185 million first-lien loan maturing in
2017, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The refinancing
was arranged by Jefferies Group LLC  Playboy’s debt must be no more than 5.8 times earnings, and
earnings must exceed interest expense by at least 2.5 times to
remain in compliance with the covenant requirements as of Sept.
30, S&P credit analyst Daniel Haines said in a telephone
interview.  The rating reduction reflects Playboy’s weak operating
performance in the second quarter, linked to a series of
licensing deals that didn’t close in the first half of 2013, S&P
analyst Daniel Haines wrote in the report. A five percent drop
in earnings may result in Playboy’s covenant requirements being
breached, Haines said.  ‘Full Compliance’  “Playboy is in the midst of a multiyear turnaround, which
is proceeding toward our long-term objective of growing
revenues,” Jeff Majtyka, a spokesman for Playboy, said in an e-mail. “While the timing of closing new licensing deals in our
pipeline is prone to shift and can affect our results quarter to
quarter, we remain in full compliance with our covenants.”  The  term loan , due in 2017, pays interest at 6 percentage
points more than the London interbank offered rate, with a 1.25
percent minimum on the lending benchmark.  S&P has a developing outlook on the company’s debt, which
means the company faces another downgrade in the next 12 months
if it encounters delays in securing licensing contracts.  A CCC rating implies that the company is vulnerable to
nonpayment and is dependent upon favorable business, financial,
and economic conditions for it to meet its financial
commitments.  A partnership owned by founder  Hugh Hefner  and private-equity firm  Rizvi Traverse Management LLC  took Playboy private
in March 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  