-- Pop. Milano Reports Quarterly Profit After Year-Earlier Loss
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2013-08-27T17:12:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/pop-milano-reports-quarterly-profit-after-year-earlier-loss.html
Banca Popolare di Milano Scrl ,
Italy’s oldest cooperative bank, returned to a quarterly profit
a year after booking writedowns on goodwill and intangible
assets.  Net income was 48.4 million euros ($65 million) in the
 second quarter  after a loss of 195.6 million euros a year
earlier, when the Milan-based lender took 360 million euros of
writedowns. Earnings beat the 31.7 million-euro average estimate
of three analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Chairman Andrea Bonomi and Chief Executive Officer Piero Montani are seeking to revive profit by cutting costs and
reorganizing governance. The bank will update its business plan,
including projects on governance, by the end of October, it said
in a statement today.  The Bank of  Italy  asked managers to resume talks to
introduce more balanced governance, after opposition from unions
and employees led Bonomi and Montani to abandon a plan in May to
transform the bank into a joint-stock company. The bank said it
will respond to the Bank of Italy’s review by Sept. 30.  “The bank still has a lot to do to revive and to improve
governance,” Bonomi said in the statement.  Revenue advanced 27 percent to 457.8 million euros, boosted
by higher income from trading and fees, and benefitting from a
write back of the coupon on hybrid instruments booked in
previous quarters. That helped counter a 20 percent increase in
bad-loan provisions to 99.7 million euros.  Popolare di Milano’s core Tier 1 capital ratio, a measure
of financial strength, fell to 7.45 percent at the end of June,
hurt by a 500 million-euro repayment of state aid obtained in
2009. The lender approved a share sale in April for the same
amount to restore capital ratios. The timing for the capital
increase will be decided after the business plan update, the
bank said.  Popolare di Milano, which holds an analyst conference call
tomorrow at 9 a.m. local time, fell 2.2  percent  to 37.87 cents
in Milan trading, giving the bank a market value of 1.22 billion
euros. The earnings were published after the market closed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  