-- Potash King Becomes KGB Hostage as Lukashenko Pokes Putin
-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2013-08-28T18:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/potash-king-becomes-kgb-hostage-as-lukashenko-pokes-putin.html
As Belarus television showed the
Russian head of  OAO Uralkali (URKA) , the world’s biggest potash
producer, being led around the courtyard of an undisclosed
prison, Anatoly Lebedko knew exactly where it was: Amerikanka.  Amerikanka, or American Lady, is the nickname of the KGB
prison in Minsk where President Aleksandr Lukashenko jailed
Lebedko and other opposition leaders after his re-election in
2010. German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  last year said Belarus
suffers “dictatorship and repression” under Lukashenko, who
has ruled this former Soviet republic since 1994.  The 18-cell facility in the KGB’s headquarters has become
the “hostage center of choice for politicians and executives
who run afoul of Lukashenko,” Lebedko, 52, who runs the United
Civil Party, said by phone from Belarus’s capital yesterday.
“Supper consists of either salted herring or milk soup,” said
Lebedko, who spent 108 days in Amerikanka for leading a rally.  Lukashenko’s government detained Uralkali chief Vladislav Baumgertner at the Minsk airport on Aug. 26 and charged him with
abuse of office after inviting him for talks. Baumgertner, who
is also chairman of Belarus Potash Co., Uralkali’s trading
partnership with state-run Belaruskali, said July 30 that he was
dissolving the venture because Lukashenko “violated” their
agreement by authorizing Belaruskali to export some of its soil
nutrient independent of Belarus Potash.  Propaganda  The venture had accounted for about 20 percent of revenue
for the government of a country where the gross domestic product
per capita is about half that of  Russia , according to World Bank
data.  Interest rates  and inflation are among the highest in
 Europe , at 30 percent and 18 percent, respectively.  Russia, which led a $3 billion bailout loan to Belarus in
2011, pressured Lukashenko, 58, to release Baumgertner, who
faces 10 years in prison, saying his arrest and accompanying
propaganda could harm ties between the countries. The last $440
million of the funding is scheduled to be released this year.  “The fact of Baumgertner’s detention and the media
campaign around it doesn’t correspond to the nature of our
relations as allies,” the Foreign Ministry in Moscow said in an
e-mailed statement yesterday after summoning Belarusian
Ambassador Igor Petrishenko.  Belarusian television showed a handcuffed Baumgertner, head
bowed, being led to a cell by two uniformed guards. He will
probably be held for at least two months as the investigation
continues, the Interfax new service reported yesterday, citing
Belarus’s Investigative Committee.  ‘Outrageous Act’  Baumgertner is an honest, law-abiding citizen and his
arrest is “an outrageous act,” Uralkali Chairman  Alexander
Voloshin  said in a statement yesterday, calling for his
immediate release.  Uralkali’s press service declined to
identify Baumgertner’s lawyer, as did Russia’s embassy in Minsk.  Belarusian authorities have discredited themselves by
inviting Baumgertner and then detaining him, Interfax  reported 
yesterday, citing Russian Ambassador to Belarus Alexander
Surikov. The Foreign Ministry in Minsk  summoned  Surikov today
and warned him that “incorrect interpretations and
fabrications” about Baumgertner’s arrest are unacceptable.  Belarus officials also issued warrants for four other
Uralkali executives, accusing them along with Baumgertner of a
scheme to cut Belaruskali out of decision-making at their
venture and causing $100 million of damages.  ‘Held Hostage’  Uralkali’s shares fell 0.3 percent today in  London  to
$23.73, valuing the company at about $14 billion and extending
the decline since July 29 to 16 percent.  “It seems Baumgertner is being held hostage, but the real
reason why isn’t clear,” said Alexei Pikulik, head of the
Belarusian Institute for Strategic Studies, an independent
research group based in Vilnius,  Lithuania . Lukashenko’s
motivation is probably financial, though it could be pure
bravado -- to show Russian President  Vladimir Putin  that’s he’s
someone to be reckoned with, Pikulik said by phone from Minsk.  “Belarus may seek to use the conflict as an excuse for its
looming economic problems by blaming them on Uralkali and the
Kremlin,” Pikulik said.  Putin, 60, and Lukashenko have sparred over prices for
Russian fuel, leading to a brief shut-off of oil supplies in
January 2007. OAO Transneft, Russia’s oil pipeline operator,
told producers it may cut flows to Belarus, a transit route for
energy supplies to Europe, in September to carry out maintenance
work, Moscow-based OAO Lukoil said today.  Putin’s Pike  Lukashenko sold Belarusian pipelines to Russia’s natural
gas export monopoly,  OAO Gazprom (OGZD) , after disputes over fuel
prices, leaving Belaruskali, which he’s valued at $36 billion,
as the nation’s most valuable asset.  Belarus  earned $2.7 billion
on potash sales abroad in 2012, or 5.9 percent of total exports.  Making fun of Putin last month, Lukashenko responded to a
Kremlin announcement that the leader had caught a 21-kilogram
pike by claiming to have recently landed a 57-kilogram catfish
in a river contaminated in the 1986 Chernobyl nuclear disaster.  Even so, Russia has provided Belarus with discounted fuel
for years, seeing the nation of 9.5 million as a loyal ally.
Belarus has also embraced a Russian-led customs union with
 Kazakhstan . The closer integration has boosted trade, while
volumes between Russia and Ukraine, which opted against joining,
dropped in the first quarter, Putin said July 27.  Still, Belarus swung to a trade deficit of $1.68 billion in
the first half after posting a $1.92 billion surplus in the same
period last year. Exports of petroleum products, its biggest
foreign-currency earner, fell 22 percent, while exports of
trucks and tractors tumbled 41 percent and 28 percent,
respectively, according to the government’s statistics office.  Dark Forces  “The only viable path to recovery, economic reform and
privatization, has been resolutely rejected by Lukashenko as it
would threaten his rule,” Joerg Forbrig, a senior program
officer at The  German Marshall Fund  in Berlin, said by e-mail.  “The regime in Minsk has taken to blaming various internal
and external enemies,” Forbrig said. “Uralkali and Russia have
now been added to this list, and Belarusian propaganda will
certainly show them to be forces aiming to destroy the famed, if
dead, ‘Belarusian model.’”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  