-- Qatar Airways Lifts Baggage Allowance as Global Network Expands
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-08-27T14:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/qatar-airways-lifts-baggage-allowance-as-global-network-expands.html
Qatar Airways  Ltd. lifted the
maximum weight for check-in baggage to 30 kilograms (66 pounds)
for economy-class passengers on most international flights as
airlines use baggage allowances as a tool to win more business.  Business-class passengers on the Doha-based airline can
take 40 kilograms instead of 30, Qatar Airways said in a
statement, adding the new rules take into account its increased
network that attracts international fliers with more baggage.  The higher baggage allowance, which brings Qatar Airways’
offering in line with Middle Eastern rivals Etihad Airways PJSC
and Emirates, runs counter to a general trend in commercial
aviation to make passengers pay more for services. Discount
airlines including  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  have spearheaded a
movement to charge for everything from baggage to refreshments.  “This is just one more facet of how these companies are
wooing passengers,” said  Yan Derocles , an analyst at Oddo
Securities in Paris. “It’s a commercial strategy that directly
confronts the major European and American carriers.”  The majority of European, Asian and U.S. carriers tend to
allow 23 kilograms for each checked-in bag in economy class. On
routes to the U.S., the three Middle Eastern carriers allows two
bags weighing 23 kilograms each per economy passenger.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  allows up to two free checked bags
weighing 32 kilograms each for business-class passengers, while
passengers flying full-fare coach can check one 23 kilogram bag
for free and must pay $100 for a second checked bag that weighs
up to 50 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Toulouse at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  