-- Qihoo Sees Share of China Search Ads Rising to Match Web Traffic
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-08-27T04:10:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/qihoo-sees-share-of-china-search-ads-rising-to-match-web-traffic.html
Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , operator
of  China ’s second-largest search engine, expects its share of
advertising sales to rise closer to its proportion of web query
traffic as it steps up competition with  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)   Qihoo, which doubled revenue in the second quarter, gets
about 1 percent of China’s $7 billion online advertising market
while it has 18 percent of search traffic, Chief Financial
Officer Alex Xu said in an interview in Beijing today.  While the company’s systems for generating revenue from
search aren’t as comprehensive as market leader Baidu, it is
boosting its customer base, Xu said. Qihoo last month said it
was in initial talks to buy Sohu.com Inc.’s Sogou unit, China’s
third-largest search engine, to help it compete with Baidu.  “The percentage of revenue share will get closer and
closer to the traffic share over time,” Xu said, declining to
comment on how long it will take to close the gap. Improved
efficiency and an increase in customers will “basically narrow
the gap,” he said.  Xu declined to comment on the status of talks with  Sohu. (SOHU)   Qihoo will also continue to look for acquisitions to add
technology and products related to mobile Internet, Xu said,
declining to elaborate.  American depositary receipts of Qihoo climbed 7.8 percent
to $78.80 yesterday and have surged 165 percent this year.  Baidu, whose ADRs have gained 39 percent this year, had 81
percent of search-engine queries in China during the June
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Qihoo’s share
rose to 10 percent from 9 percent a year earlier while Sogou
accounted for 4.8 percent.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  