-- Qualcomm, Northwestern, YouTube: Intellectual Property
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-27T12:47:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/qualcomm-northwestern-youtube-intellectual-property.html
Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  has given the Searle
Center at Northwestern University School of Law $2 million to
fund research that will investigate the role of patents in
spurring innovation.  Matthew Spitzer, the director of the Searle Center and a
law professor at Northwestern, said in a phone interview
yesterday that “there is an anti-patent drift in the academic
literature. People are skeptical about the value of patents, but
I’m not one of them.”  Spitzer, along with  Kellogg School  of Management professor
Daniel Spulber, had spoken with Qualcomm executives and
“pitched the idea of a center that was not ideologically
predisposed to dislike patents. They basically said ‘if you do
this, we will fund it.’”  The center will create databases to “collate information
regarding standards, licensing, litigation and markets for
patents,” according to an Aug. 22 statement from the university
announcing the gift.  The database, once created, will be available to all,
Spitzer said. He said he hopes to “test empirically the
interaction of  patent law  and technological advances. We’re not
yet very good at understanding this.”  GAO Report Shows Patent Trolls Bring 20% of Patent Lawsuits  The number of lawsuits filed by so-called patent trolls
increased more than fourfold from 2007 to 2011.  According to a report by the Government Accountability
Office released Aug. 22, patent trolls, technically known as
patent monetization entities, brought “about a fifth of all
patent infringement lawsuits from 2007 to 2011.” Because these
entities tend to name a greater swath of defendants than
operating companies, which produce products, the study found
that patent trolls sued “close to one-third of the overall
defendants.”  The report found that the number of defendants sued by
trolls increased from 834 in 2007 to 3,401 in 2011. The report
also found that lawsuits involving software-related patents
accounted for approximately 89 percent of the increase in
defendants between 2007 and 2011 and that “most of the suits”
brought by patent trolls involved software-related patents.  The America Invents Act included a provision mandating that
the GAO study the consequences of such patent litigation. The
GAO conducted this study, it said in its report, because many
have “raised questions about patent infringement lawsuits by
entities that own patents but do not make products.  To read the report,  click here.   For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Harvard’s Lessig Sues Music Company Over Copyright Question  Harvard Law School professor Lawrence Lessig is asking a
federal court in  Boston  to clarify that a lecture posted to
YouTube doesn’t violate copyright law.  Lessig, a well-known expert on copyright law, has posted
more than 50 lectures to  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s YouTube, according to the
lawsuit filed Aug. 22. One of those lectures -- on innovation
and copyright, given in Seoul in June 2010 -- incorporated
amateur music video clips of people singing ‘‘Lisztomania,” a
song originally performed by the band Phoenix.  Lessig posted a recording of the lecture in 2010. This
June, more than two years after it was uploaded, he received
notice from YouTube that Liberation Music Pty Ltd, the
Australian record company representing Phoenix, complained that
the lecture contained copyrighted material.  In a phone interview yesterday, Lessig said he “countered
to YouTube that it was fair use under American law.” Two hours
later, he said, “I received notice that Liberation Music
planned to file a lawsuit within 72 hours if I didn’t take the
content down.”  Lessig took the lecture down, but didn’t stand down. In
filing what’s known as an action for declaratory relief, he sued
seeking a judgment clarifying that no violation occurred.  Christopher Morrison of  Jones Day  and  Electronic Frontier
Foundation , the digital rights group, filed the complaint on
Lessig’s behalf. Liberation didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking
comment.  The case also seeks to establish that Liberation’s conduct
is impermissible under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act,
which prohibits parties from misrepresenting that copyright
infringement has occurred.  This isn’t the first time someone complained that Lessig
violated a copyright in a lecture, he said yesterday. It is,
however, the first time he was threatened with a lawsuit.  “It’s a deep irony that a lecture about copyright law is
being taken down by extremists in copyright law,” he said.  The case is Lessig v. Liberation Music Pty Ltd, 1:13-cv-12028, U.S. District Court, District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  TV Networks Turn to Courts Outside N.Y. in Fight With Aereo  Broadcasters stymied by court losses in  New York  are
turning to judges in California and Massachusetts in their
campaign to shut down the Aereo Inc. online streaming TV service
backed by  Barry Diller .  Aereo, which relays broadcast television to subscribers
over the Internet, continues to expand its service to more U.S.
cities even as  CBS Corp. (CBS) ,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
ABC and Twentieth Century Fox Film Corp.’s Fox pursue copyright
litigation that may wind up before the U.S.  Supreme Court .  A federal court in  Los Angeles  granted Fox’s motion to
close a similar service run by FilmOn.TV Networks Inc. and
lawyers are set to argue today before the  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in  Pasadena , California, over that decision. A victory by Fox
would create a split between federal appeals courts in
California and New York, which could propel the case to the
nation’s highest court.  “We’re going to ultimately win this,”  Dennis Wharton , a
spokesman for the  National Association of Broadcasters , said in
a phone interview. “They’re retransmitting content they don’t
own and charging a fee for it without the permission of the
content owners. This case has united the broadcast industry like
no other.”  While broadcasters reaped $2.36 billion in retransmission
fees in 2012 from services including  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and
 DirecTV (DTV) , the annual rate of increase in retransmission revenue
declined to 34 percent last year from 42 percent in 2011,
according to researcher  SNL Kagan , which projects another
decline this year.  The broadcasters say they’re fighting to preserve the
business model that generates revenue to produce television
programs. Cable and satellite services might balk at paying to
carry their channels if Aereo can legally get the signal for
nothing, they said.  Other streaming services, including Hulu LLC,  Netflix Inc. (NFLX) 
and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , pay licensing fees to the broadcasters.  The only cable channel New York-based Aereo offers is
Bloomberg TV, which, like  Bloomberg News , is a unit of New York-based Bloomberg LP.  Aereo scored early victories against the networks in New
York, where an appeals panel affirmed a lower-court ruling that
its transmissions are private performances under copyright law
and don’t require licenses. The broadcasters’ bid for a review
by the full appeals court was rejected.  “We are pleased that the federal district court in New
York looked in depth at our technology and rejected the
broadcasters’ assertions that it violated copyright law,” Chet Kanojia, Aereo’s founder and chief executive officer, said
yesterday in an e-mail.  In July, TV-station owner Hearst Corp. sued Aereo in
Boston, the market Aereo targeted after New York. Aereo,
expecting CBS to sue there, had already filed a complaint
against that network in New York seeking a declaration that it
wasn’t an infringer.  The cases in New York are American Broadcasting Cos. v.
Aereo Inc., 12-01540, WNET v. Aereo Inc., 12-01543, and Aereo
Inc. v. CBS Broadcasting Inc., 13-03013, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan). The case in Boston is
Hearst Stations Inc. v. Aereo Inc., 13-11649, U.S. District
Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston). The California case
is Fox Television Stations Inc. v. Aereokiller, 12-06921, U.S.
District Court, Central District of California, and Fox
Television Stations Inc. v. FilmOn X LLC, 13-55156, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (Pasadena).  For more, click here.  For more copyright news, click here.  For trademark news, click here.  Trade Secrets  Three Men Charged With Stealing Flow Traders Trading Software  Two men who were employed by  Flow Traders  were charged in
New York with stealing the firm’s electronic trading software by
e-mailing it to themselves from their work accounts.  Glen Cressman, a trader at the New York office of the
Amsterdam-based company, sent e-mails to himself in December
2012 with trading strategies and valuation algorithms, according
to the complaint in state Supreme Court in Manhattan. He is
charged with two counts each of unlawful duplication of
computer-related material and unauthorized use of secret
scientific material, according to copies of a complaint brought
by the Manhattan District Attorney’s office.  Jason Vuu, a Flow Traders employee until his resignation in
March, was charged with 20 counts of the same offenses. His e-mails were sent from August 2011 to August 2012, and he
sometimes changed the file format of the attachments to make it
difficult to recognize their contents, according to the
complaint.  Vuu is accused by prosecutors of sharing the software code
with Simon Lu, who wasn’t a Flow Traders employee, to create
their own trading company. Lu is charged with three counts each
of unlawful duplication of computer-related material and
unauthorized use of secret scientific material.  “I’m confident that when the DA’s office has completed
their investigation they will find Flow Traders did not suffer
any economic loss,” Jeremy Saland, a lawyer for Vuu, said in an
e-mail yesterday. “Their algorithms and code weren’t taken or
used in any malicious way that damaged or compromised their
financial security.”  Charles Ross , a lawyer for Cressman, Paul Shechtman, a
lawyer for Lu, and Joseph DeMarco, a lawyer for Flow Traders,
didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the charges.  The complaints were reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  