-- TransCanada Keystone XL Defeats Obstacle to Pipeline Leg
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2013-08-27T21:25:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/transcanada-keystone-xl-defeats-obstacle-to-pipeline-leg.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP)  won a state
appeals court ruling allowing it to lay the Keystone XL pipeline
across a family farm in northeastern Texas, eliminating one of
the last obstacles to completion of the southern leg of the
Canadian tar-sands line.  Julia Trigg Crawford claimed TransCanada lacked the right
to use state eminent domain laws to cross her 600-acre family
farm near the  Oklahoma  border without her permission.  Crawford failed to convince the trial or appellate courts
that Texas law grants condemnation power only to pipelines
within the state and not to pipelines crossing state lines. A
separate appeals court had rejected the same argument by another
landowner, who was also fighting Keystone’s ability to cross his
land near Beaumont. TransCanada is based in Calgary.  “The Beaumont court rejected the notion that this section
applies only to intrastate pipelines, noting that the
Legislature did not use the words ‘interstate’ or ‘intrastate’”
in language describing the types of pipeline allowed to use
eminent domain,  Texas  Appeals Court Justice Bailey C. Mosley
said in a decision handed down today in Texarkana.  Court Challenges  TransCanada has been fighting court challenges from a
handful of landowners who object to the Keystone XL’s route
through East Texas. This portion of the pipeline, which connects
Beaumont with Cushing, Oklahoma, forms the southernmost leg of a
2,151-mile (3,460-kilometer) system that will carry tar-sands
crude from western  Canada  to refineries on the Texas Gulf coast.  “Crawford’s lawyer copied verbatim the pleadings in that
other case, which lost,” James Freeman, TransCanada’s lawyer,
said in a telephone interview. “The court did an excellent job
of seeing this case for what it was.”  Two other Texas landowners are pursuing court battles
against Keystone in various state courts, as the pipeline nears
completion in Texas, Freeman said.  “There’s no way I’m done fighting,” Crawford said in a
telephone interview. “We’re just one family fighting a giant
corporation. But if I’ve got a penny left in my defense fund,
I’ll seriously consider continuing. We’re regrouping to consider
our options. This is a long-term fight.”  The case is Crawford Family Farm Partnership v. TransCanada
Keystone Pipeline LP, 06-12-00113, Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Appellate District of Texas (Texarkana).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  