-- Rapeseed Seen by Oil World Leading Rebound in Oilseed
-- B y   A l e x   P a s h l e y
-- 2013-08-27T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/rapeseed-seen-by-oil-world-leading-rebound-in-oilseed.html
Global oilseed production will rise
to a record in 2013-14, propelled by higher-than-predicted
rapeseed and sunflower seed crops that will alleviate two years
of tight supplies, according to Oil World.  World production of seven oilseeds is forecast to gain 4.8
percent from a year earlier to 478.4 million metric tons, the
Hamburg-based research company said today in a report. Sunflower
seed output may be a record 40.2 million tons, 1.5 million tons
more than previously estimated. Oil World also raised its
forecast for rapeseed production to an all-time high 64.8
million tons, 1.3 million tons more than projected earlier.  “World supplies will become more ample, ending two
consecutive seasons of tightness,” Oil World said. “This has
already been reflected in the price trend during the past couple
of months.”  Rapeseed futures on NYSE Liffe in Paris have declined 15
percent this year, trading at 353 euros ($471) a ton on July 31,
the lowest for a most-active contract since August 2010. The
European Union is the world’s biggest grower of rapeseed, used
to make biofuel and cooking oil.  Canada , which produces the
canola variety of rapeseed, ranks second.  Production of rapeseed, the world’s second-largest oilseed
crop after soybeans, was estimated at 20.8 million tons in the
European Union, up 6.8 percent from a year earlier. Canada’s
crop will be 6.5 percent bigger at 14.8 million tons while the
harvest in a bloc of former Soviet Union countries will be 41
percent higher at 4.5 million tons, Oil World said.  In the EU, better-than-expected rapeseed harvests in
 Poland , the  Czech Republic  and  Romania  will boost the crop. The
bloc’s rapeseed crushings will fall 1.3 percent as “large and
attractively priced supplies of sunflower seed and sunflower
oil” place pressure on European rapeseed  oil prices  and damp
demand. “Sluggish” demand from the biodiesel industry will
further reduced rapeseed consumption, Oil World said.  World soybean production may be 282.5 million tons, Oil
World said. The forecast was 1.7 million tons lower than the
previously forecast because of declining outlook in the U.S. and
Canada, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Pashley in London at 
 apashley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  