-- Treasury Notes Turn Special in Repo Market Amid Debt Auctions
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2013-08-27T18:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/treasury-notes-turn-special-in-repo-market-amid-debt-auctions.html
Treasury notes with maturities
ranging from two to seven years have become coveted in the
short-term market for borrowing and lending securities as the
government auctions more of the securities this week.  Traders have been willing to pay to borrow the debt in
exchange for loaning cash for the most actively traded five-,
seven- and 10-year notes, with repurchase agreement rates
negative. Many times traders short, or sell securities they’ve
borrowed in the repo market, ahead a Treasury sale to profit if
prices of the securities fall after the auction.  The overnight repo rate for the current five-year note
closed at negative 0.30 percent, while that on the seven-year
ended at negative 0.10 percent and the 10-year was negative 0.01
percent, according to data from ICAP Plc, the world’s largest
inter-dealer broker. The overnight general collateral Treasury
repurchase rate closed at 0.04 percent  “The auctions this week are a significant factor causing
the specials in the repo market,” John Canavan, a fixed-income
strategist at Stone & McCarthy Research Associates in
Plainsboro, New Jersey, said in a telephone interview. “There
are some broader collateral-shortage issues at the moment also,
which is why the general collateral rate has been falling. But
the primary reason you are seeing the five’s and seven’s
specialness increasing is because we are heading into the
auctions.”  The U.S. sold $34 billion in two-year notes today at a
lower-than-forecast yield as concern turmoil in  Syria  may lead
to wider military conflict boosted refuge demand. The notes drew
a yield of 0.386 percent, compared with a forecast of 0.390
percent in a Bloomberg News survey of seven of the Federal
Reserve’s 21 primary dealers.  On Special  The average  rate for borrowing  and lending Treasuries for
one day in the repo market was 0.035 percent yesterday,
according to the DTCC GCF Treasury Repo index. That rate has
fallen from 0.29 percent at the end of last year. The repo rate
decline has come as the Fed has kept its target rate for
overnight loans between banks locked in a range of zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  Securities dealers use repos to finance holdings and
increase leverage. Securities that can be borrowed at interest
rates close to the Fed’s target rate, which is in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent, are called general collateral. Those in
highest demand have lower rates and are called “special.”  The two-year note sale was the first of three note auctions
this week totaling $98 billion. The government will sell $35
billion in five-year debt tomorrow and $29 billion in seven-year
securities on Aug. 29.  Fed Purchases  The Fed has been purchasing Treasuries, limiting the amount
available to borrow and lend in the repo market, as part of its
third round of debt purchases known as quantitative easing. The
central bank is buying $45 billion Treasuries and $40 billion in
mortgage debt each month.  Given the scarcity of Treasuries in repo due to the Fed’s
debt purchases, the amount of securities  borrowed  daily from the
central bank by primary dealers has risen this year. When
securities are hard to obtain in the repo market, dealers can go
to the  Federal Reserve Bank of New York  to borrow the debt.
Demand for specific securities typically rises when the Treasury
is selling debt, as dealers look to cover so-called short
positions built up before the auctions they’re required to bid
on. A short is a bet a securities price will fall.  The Fed offers Treasury securities held by its System Open
Market Account, or SOMA, for loan to dealers against Treasury
general collateral on an overnight basis. Dealers bid in a
multiple-price auction held every day at noon New York time.
This differs from the borrowing of securities in the repo
market.  SOMA lending of Treasury notes and bonds averaged $15
billion a day this year, compared with an average of $10.5
billion last year, Fed data shows.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  