-- Record Gold in India Seen Hurting Jewelry Demand as Rupee Slumps
-- B y   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2013-08-27T09:52:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/record-gold-in-india-seen-hurting-jewelry-demand-as-rupee-slumps.html
Gold advanced to a record in  India 
after the nation’s currency extended a plunge to an all-time
low, threatening jewelry demand during the main festival season
in the world’s largest consumer.  The contract for delivery in October surged as much as 3.3
percent to 32,933 rupees per 10 grams ($1,555.96 an ounce) on
the  Multi Commodity Exchange of India Ltd. (MCX)  in Mumbai today.
Futures have rallied 33 percent since reaching a two-year low in
June as the rupee tumbled about 10 percent, more than the 14
percent gain in bullion priced in dollars.  “The gap between domestic and international prices has
become too much after adding the import duty, value-added tax
and high local premiums,” said Haresh Soni, chairman of the All
India Gems & Jewellery Trade Federation, which represents
300,000 jewelers and bullion dealers across the country. “I am
not too optimistic about demand during the festival season. This
is an inflated rate.”  Slowing demand may cheer Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s
government, which has raised  import taxes  on gold thrice this
year to moderate consumption that has contributed to the slide
in the rupee and a record  current account deficit . Banks and
traders have halted imports since the end of July after the
central bank linked inbound shipments to re-exports.  Bullion in India rose as gold in  London  rebounded since
reaching a 34-month low in June as demand for jewelry, bars and
coins soared from  China  to  Turkey . The rupee tumbled more than 2
percent to 66.0775 to a dollar today on concern that the
current-account deficit will worsen as  oil prices  climb amid
political tensions in the  Middle East .  Convincing Consumers  “Indian consumers are confused right now and they are not
going to come and buy jewelry at this point in time,” said
Soni. “Consumers have seen 26,000 rupees rates just couple of
months ago. It is difficult to digest this rate right now and it
will be very difficult to convince customers to buy.”  Gold is bought in India during festivals, for marriages as
part of the bridal trousseau and gifted in the form of jewelry
by relatives. The festival season in India runs from August to
October, followed by the wedding season from November to
December and from late March through early May.  The rally may spur scrap gold sales and ease a shortage of
the precious metal in the domestic market, Soni said.  “Earlier 15 percent to 20 percent of our total turnover
used to be from scrap sales,” he said. “This time we are
expecting it to double.”  Recycled gold supply in India fell 44 percent to 31 metric
tons in the first six months of 2013, even as gold imports
jumped 45 percent to 553 tons, World Gold Council data showed.  Higher tariffs and central-bank rules linking overseas
purchases to re-exports may cut India’s imports in the second
half to not more than 150 tons from 478 tons in 2012 and spur
smuggling, according to Bachhraj Bamalwa, a director with the
jewelry federation. The country may not import any gold in
August, he said yesterday.  Consumption in India, which imports almost all the bullion
it needs, accounted for about 20 percent of global demand in
2012, according to data from the gold council.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  