-- RTS Futures Fall on Growth as Oil Jumps: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-08-27T21:19:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/rts-futures-fall-on-growth-as-oil-jumps-russia-overnight.html
Russia ’s  stock futures  slumped on
concern that a surge in oil prices will crimp global economic
growth at a time when the country is scaling back forecasts for
its own expansion.  Futures on the RTS Index expiring in September lost 0.7
percent in U.S. hours. The Bloomberg-Russia-US Equity Index of
the most-traded Russian stocks in the U.S. slid the most in
three weeks, led by  Yandex NV (YNDX) , Russia’s largest search engine.
 OAO Gazprom Neft (GZPFY) , the oil arm of the nation’s natural-gas
exporter, increased 2.8 percent.  Qiwi Plc (QIWI) ,, which operates an
electronic payment service, rose to the highest price in almost
four months after boosting its earnings and sales forecasts.  Oil jumped to an 18-month high in New York yesterday on
speculation that tension in  Syria  will disrupt Middle East
supplies. The rally intensified concern global expansion will
slow as  China ’s economy levels off amid a looming recession in
 Europe . Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, cut its
2013 growth forecast for the second time this year on Aug. 26
after the economy unexpectedly slowed.  “Higher oil prices may lead to slower growth,” Ivan Manaenko, the head of research at Veles Capital, said by phone
from Moscow yesterday. “That longer-term view at the moment
outweighs an immediate positive impact from higher energy prices
for Russia.”  West Texas Intermediate crude for October delivery rose 2.9
percent to $109.01 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange .
It was the highest settlement since Feb. 24, 2012. Foreign
Minister Walid al-Muallem said that Syria’s defenses will
“surprise” the world should the U.S. and its allies attempt
military strikes.  Russia’s Economy  Russia lowered its 2013 economic-growth forecast to 1.8
percent from 2.4 percent, Deputy Economy Minister Andrey Klepach
said earlier this week. Bank of America Corp. cut the nation’s
gross domestic product growth outlook yesterday to 2.5 percent,
citing weak second-quarter data.  The Bloomberg Russia-US gauge slumped 1.2 percent to 90.79.
The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated Russian
exchange-traded fund, fell 1.5 percent to $25.89. The RTS
Volatility Index, which measures expected swings in the  stock
futures , declined 0.5 percent to 23.69 in U.S. hours.  Yandex, which got all of its revenue from Russia last year,
fell 3.3 percent to $32.14, the lowest level since July 29. The
slump trimmed this year’s advance to 49 percent.  ‘Priced In’  Gazprom Neft jumped to $19.80, almost wiping out its
discount to the shares in Moscow. Russian producers will benefit
from higher energy prices, Daniloff Capital LLC said.  “While Russia’s political risks have been already priced
in, stronger oil price should help push equities higher,” Ilya
Kravets, director of investment research at Daniloff Capital,
said in a telephone interview from  New York  yesterday.  Qiwi surged 2.6 percent to $34.33, more than double its
U.S. initial public offering price in May. Trading volume was
twice the average of the last 90 days, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The company reported second-quarter
earnings of 32 cents a share, beating the mean estimate of four
analysts by Bloomberg by 45 percent. JPMorgan Chase & Co. raised
the stock to the equivalent of buy from neutral.  OAO Sberbank, the nation’s biggest lender, fell 0.6 percent
to $10.79 in New York yesterday, the lowest level since Nov. 14,
settling at a 0.7 percent discount to the company’s Moscow-listed stock. The bank reports its second-quarter earnings
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  