-- Ruble Drops Against Basket in Emerging-Markets Rout; Bonds Fall
-- B y   V l a d i m i r   K u z n e t s o v
-- 2013-08-27T11:06:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/ruble-drops-against-basket-in-emerging-markets-rout-bonds-fall.html
The ruble weakened for a second day
as speculation that the U.S. will scale back stimulus and
violence in Syria will escalate fueled a sell-off in emerging-market currencies.  The ruble depreciated 0.3 percent to 38.1817 against the
central bank’s euro-dollar basket by 2:21 p.m. in Moscow,
heading for the lowest close since August 2009. The yield on the
government’s ruble debt due February 2027 increased eight basis
points, or 0.08 percentage point, to 7.99 percent.  Currencies including India’s rupee and the Turkish lira
declined after U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  yesterday
denounced an attack last week on a Damascus suburb as a
“cowardly crime” requiring a response against Syrian President
Bashar al-Assad’s regime. The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index
approached the highest in three weeks on speculation the  U.S.
economy  is strong enough for the  Federal Reserve  to start
curbing bond-buying.  “The ruble got caught in the maelstrom of selling in Asian
currencies,” OAO Rosbank analysts led by Vladimir Kolychev said
in an e-mailed note.  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s  Emerging Markets Currencies index 
fell 0.3 percent to 87.77, extending a 0.9 percent drop
yesterday. India’s rupee fell 2.1 percent to a record low
against the dollar, Indonesian rupiah fell 4.5 percent, and the
lira weakened 1.3 percent.  The ruble weakened 0.4 against the dollar to 33.1875 and
0.3 percent against the euro to 44.2960. Brent oil gained 1
percent to $111.82 per barrel.  Fed Favorite  Former Treasury Secretary  Larry Summers  is the “odds-on
favorite” to be President  Barack Obama ’s pick to succeed  Ben Bernanke , First Trust economists wrote in a research note. This
nomination may only speed up the American central bank’s “exit
strategy” from the current monetary policy, Anton Zakharov, a
 money manager  at OAO Promsvyazbank in Moscow, said in e-mailed
comments.  “The problems of the Russian currency as an emerging
market asset are aggravated by the news that Larry Summers is
the favorite to become the next Fed Chairman,” he said.  Russia running a  current-account surplus  of $25.1 billion
in the first quarter and $6.9 billion in the second is
“fundamentally different” to Asian countries with current
account deficits,  Rosbank (ROSB)  analysts say.  Given this and the oil trading around $111 per barrel,
“the ruble’s prospects don’t look that pessimistic,” they
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vladimir Kuznetsov in Moscow at 
 vkuznetsov2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  