-- Rudd Sees Bias as Murdoch-Owned Media Dominate Australia Readers
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-27T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/rudd-sees-bias-as-murdoch-owned-media-dominate-australia-readers.html
Even by the abrasive nature of
Australian political sparring, the war of words between Prime
Minister Kevin Rudd and  Rupert Murdoch , who controls more than
two-thirds of the nation’s urban newspaper market, is shaping up
to be the most acrimonious in its election history.  Labor leader Rudd has been depicted as a bungling Nazi
commandant, Kermit the Frog and a bank robber in Sydney’s best-selling  Daily Telegraph , whose  front-page  salvo on the first day
of the campaign was “Kick This Mob Out.” Murdoch’s  News Corp .
is “taking a club to our government,” Rudd said Aug. 23, one
of at least 20 occasions he and his ministers have accused the
company of bias in the 24 days since the Sept. 7 poll was set.  News Corp.’s “attacks these days are much more
sledgehammer brutal and unscrupulous than before,” said John Menadue, the nation’s most senior civil servant from 1974 to
1976, who managed Murdoch’s Sydney operations for the preceding
seven years.  Given Murdoch’s record of backing winners -- from  Ronald
Reagan  in 1980 to  Tony Blair  in 1997 to Rudd himself a decade
later -- Labor’s ripostes risk wounding the party, which is
trailing in opinion polls and will lose office if Tony Abbott’s
opposition picks up just four seats in the 150-member lower
house. Such an outcome would draw the spotlight again to the 82-year-old Murdoch’s influence in a country where his company
publishes  seven of the top 10 best-selling newspapers  with a
combined weekly circulation of 17 million, equivalent to 74
percent of  the population .  “No politician wants a powerful newspaper organization
with monopoly outlets in many places to come out against them
guns blazing,” Sally Young, an associate professor of politics
at the  University of Melbourne , said by telephone. “If you get
really cynical coverage, you get really cynical voters.”  Murdoch Tweets  The campaign reached a new level of tit-for-tat exchanges
when Murdoch attacked Rudd, 55, on Twitter and the prime
minister’s daughter replied.  “Conviction politicians hard to find anywhere,” Murdoch
wrote Aug. 19. “Australia’s  Tony Abbott  rare exception.
Opponent Rudd all over the place convincing nobody.” Jessica
Rudd responded by thanking Murdoch “for taking the time each
day to tell us what to think.”  Abbott’s Liberal-National coalition is leading Labor by six
percentage points on a two-party preferred basis, according to a
Newspoll published in the Australian newspaper Aug. 26, down
from an eight-point advantage a week earlier. The opposition has
72 seats in the lower house, and Labor with 71 holds power with
the support of independents and the Greens party.  Marginal Seats  The race may come down to a few thousand votes in key
battleground constituencies. About 700 voters need to switch
sides for the coalition to win the seat of Greenway, a marginal
constituency in Sydney where the Telegraph is the biggest
selling newspaper.  “This is the first time that a government has really taken
them on,” said Robert Manne, an emeritus professor of politics
at La Trobe University in  Melbourne , referring to News Corp.
“They may have decided that they had little to lose.”  Since a 21-year-old Murdoch inherited two Adelaide
newspapers on his father’s death in 1952, he has transformed his
media interests into a  global empire , encompassing television
stations, film studios, book publishers and newspapers, which
posted $33.71 billion in sales in the 12 months ended June 2012.  “If you wander around Parliament House in Canberra you’ll
not be within coo-ee of the real center of power in this country
unless you walk into the News Ltd. bureau on the second floor,”
former Labor leader Mark Latham said by telephone, referring to
Murdoch’s local publishing unit. Latham led Labor to defeat in
the 2004 election when News Corp.’s Daily Telegraph and the
Australian backed incumbent  John Howard .  Colonel Klink  Sydney’s Telegraph attacked the government in a front-page
editorial on the first day of the campaign, saying its time is
up after “years of disunity and destruction” and “socially
divisive and financially ruinous” policies.  Three days later, a digitally-manipulated front page image
in the Telegraph portrayed Rudd as Colonel Klink, the vain,
inept commandant of a German prisoner of war camp in the 1960s
CBS comedy “Hogan’s Heroes”. He was also portrayed by the
paper in a digitally altered image as Kermit the Frog in a piece
about Labor’s relations with the Greens party.  “Virtually every newspaper in the free world exercises its
right to editorialize its position before an election, often on
the front page,” Stephen Browning, a spokesman for News Corp.
Australia, said by e-mail. “The Daily Telegraph supported  Kevin
Rudd  in the 2007 election. This time it does not.”  Bloomberg LP, the parent of  Bloomberg News , competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  Economic Record  Other News Corp. newspapers have also criticized Rudd’s
Labor during the campaign. The government’s defense of its
economic record “ verges on the delusional ,” the Australian,
the only non-business national newspaper, wrote in an Aug. 5
editorial. In Queensland state, former Labor Premier Peter
Beattie was  likened to a clown  in an Aug. 9 front page article
in the Courier-Mail reporting his decision to stand for a
marginal seat south of Brisbane.  News Corp. was also critical of the government of  Julia Gillard , who Rudd ousted in a June 26 party-room vote to reclaim
the prime ministership. Two years ago, then Communications
Minister Stephen Conroy accused the Telegraph of “running a
campaign on regime change.”  There’s “a level of vitriol that we haven’t really seen
before,” said the University of Melbourne’s Young, referring to
Rudd’s government and News Corp. “The relationship is beyond
repair.”  ‘Go Hard’  Murdoch is “a very, very powerful man who has already
nominated the person he wants to be prime minister,” Rudd told
reporters in Sydney on Aug. 23.  Senior local editors were issued a directive by Col Allan,
editor-in-chief of News Corp.’s  New York  Post tabloid, to “go
hard on Rudd,” the prime minister told reporters Aug. 9. He
didn’t say where he obtained the information.  “When a politician fights the media they generally come
off second-best,” said Greg Turnbull, a senior media adviser to
former Labor prime minister  Paul Keating . “There probably
aren’t votes in letting this skirmish run every day.”  News Corp.’s Browning said the company’s share of the
newspaper market was a result of consumer choice. “All of this
ignores television, radio and the myriad online news sources
which offer more diversity in opinion than at any time in
history,” he said.  The company’s reputation globally has been tarnished by a
U.K. phone-hacking scandal in which the now-defunct News of the
World, a Sunday tabloid, listened to messages on the mobile
phone of a murdered teenager.  ‘Enough Fights’  Alastair Campbell , former media adviser to Blair, says that
gives Rudd the chance to go on the offensive.  The former British prime minister eschewed conflict with
the “right wing press” as he “felt we had enough fights,”
Campbell, who worked for Blair between 1994 and 2003, said by e-mail. “People are much more media savvy now. They’re more
willing to hear messages that it’s the media who are the
manipulators, not the politicians.”  Attacking Murdoch carries risks for Rudd, according to Adam
Connolly, an ex-News Corp. journalist who worked as a media
adviser to former prime minister Howard.  “The big risk he plays in doing this is that he looks like
he’s panicking and trying to blame others for his government’s
slide in the polls,” said Connolly. Howard “never complained
and ended up with the media’s respect,” he said.  Gaining Influence  Gaining influence through media has been part of Murdoch’s
strategy at least since he established the Australian in 1964,
said Rodney Lever, who managed the broadsheet’s Melbourne
edition at the time.  Before setting up the newspaper, Murdoch feared he wouldn’t
be able to win a television license “because he did not have
enough political muscle,” Lever said by e-mail. The Australian
has since been “a major weapon in Rupert’s political armory,”
he wrote.  In the U.S., former White House communications director
Anita Dunn described Murdoch’s 24-hour cable channel Fox News as
the “communications arm of the  Republican Party ” in an October
2009 interview with  CNN .  Major’s Victory  Murdoch’s British tabloid the Sun boasted of its role in
Conservative Prime Minister  John Major ’s victory in the 1992
general election with a front page proclaiming “It’s the Sun
Wot Won It”.  That headline was “tasteless and wrong,” Murdoch told an
 April 2012 hearing  of the U.K.’s Leveson Inquiry into press
ethics. “We don’t have that sort of power.”  Murdoch said in a  witness statement  that he didn’t dictate
or delve into the editorial stances of his British newspapers.  Since the phone-hacking scandal, Murdoch has spun off News
Corp.’s less-profitable publishing assets from the film and
television units that now make up  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA)   Income is falling at Murdoch’s Australian newspapers,
Justin Diddams, a Sydney-based analyst at Citigroup Inc., wrote
in an Aug. 1 note to clients. Earnings before interest, tax,
depreciation and amortization at the papers next year will be 89
percent lower than in 2011 amid an estimated 34 percent decline
in revenue from advertising, Diddams wrote.  “There’s a view that the Murdoch star is waning fast,”
said Menadue, a former ambassador to Japan who was also chief
executive officer of Qantas. “They have become more extreme so
they’ll be noticed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Johnson at 
 ejohnson28@bloomberg.net  