-- Russia Warns U.S. Over Syria, Criticizes Delay to Peace Talks
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-08-27T08:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/russia-warns-u-s-over-syria-criticizes-delay-to-peace-talks.html
Russia criticized the U.S. decision
to postpone a meeting aimed at preparing for a peace conference
on  Syria  and warned against Western military intervention in the
Middle Eastern country.  “We urge our American colleagues and all members of the
international community to show common sense and strictly abide
by international law,” the Russian Foreign Ministry said today
in a statement on its website. “We are expecting the U.S. to
fulfill its obligations regarding preparations for this
conference.”  The meeting this week between U.S. and Russian diplomats
aimed at reviving Syrian peace talks has been postponed as the
U.S. and its allies weigh a response to claims that Syria’s
government used chemical weapons against civilians, according to
a State Department official.  Deputies to U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry and Russian
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov were scheduled to meet in The
Hague to discuss restarting stalled negotiations to end the two-year Syrian civil war. U.S. officials will work with their
Russian counterparts to reschedule the meeting, said the State
Department official, who asked not to be identified discussing
the postponement.  The meeting would have been the first of American and
Russian officials since reports emerged of an alleged chemical
weapons attack on a Damascus suburb that Syrian opposition
groups say killed at least 1,300 people. The U.S. and its allies
are weighing whether to respond militarily against Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad’s regime over the Aug. 21 attack,
which Kerry today denounced as a “cowardly crime.”  The delay was a decision by the U.S., Russian Deputy
Foreign Minister Gennady Gatilov said today on his Twitter Inc.
account, adding that the need for peace negotiations is more
pressing than ever at a time of threatened Western intervention.  “We regret that our American partners decided to cancel
the bilateral meeting,” Gatilov said. “Fixing the parameters
of a political settlement in Syria would be extremely useful now
when the threat of military action hangs over the country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  