-- Russia Tells Belarus Uralkali CEO Detention May Harm Ties
-- B y   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o   a n d   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 2013-08-27T16:14:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/russia-tells-belarus-uralkali-ceo-detention-may-harm-ties.html
Russia pressured Belarus to free
Vladislav Baumgertner, the head of OAO Uralkali, the world’s
biggest potash producer, saying a refusal may harm relations as
the smaller nation faces a funding crunch.  “The fact of Baumgertner’s detention and the media
campaign around it doesn’t correspond to the nature of our
relations as allies,” Russia’s Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed statement after summoning Belarusian Ambassador Igor
Petrishenko today in Moscow.  Belarus investigators detained Baumgertner, 41, at the
Minsk airport after Belarusian Prime Minister Mikhail Myasnikovich invited him for talks yesterday. They are accusing
Uralkali top managers of rolling out a criminal scheme to
control potash exports after the Russian company said July 30 it
was quitting their joint trading venture, Belarusian Potash Co.
Revenue from the crop nutrient accounts for almost 20 percent of
the country’s budget.  Baumgertner was shown on Belarusian television news with
his head bowed and hands behind his back, being led to a cell by
two uniformed guards. He will be under arrest for at least two
months during the investigation, Interfax reported today, citing
Pavel Traulko, a spokesman for Belarus’s Investigative
Committee. He may face as long as 10 years if found guilty of
abuse of office as chairman at BPC, as the venture is known,
Traulko said yesterday.  ‘Legal Issue’  Uralkali shares rose 0.6 percent in Moscow to 158.63
rubles, after falling 3.5 percent yesterday. The stock fell 3.5
percent in  London , where markets were closed yesterday for a
public holiday.  Baumgertner’s detention is a legal issue, which should not
be approached “based on emotions or in connection with
politics,” the Belarusian Foreign Ministry said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Belarusian officials are seeking four more Uralkali
executives, who worked at BPC or served as directors, accusing
them of conspiring with Baumgertner and Uralkali shareholders to
cut state-owned potash producer Belaruskali out of decision-making at the trading venture and manipulate the market, causing
damages and losses of about $100 million.  Baumgertner forecast in July that global potash prices may
plunge to less than $300 a metric ton after the breakup of the
venture and Uralkali ramps up output. That compares with a price
of $400 for  China  in the first half of the year.  President Lukashenko  A price decline threatens President Aleksander Lukashenko,
who has ruled Belarus since 1994, with a drop in foreign
currency needed to meet imports and international debt
obligations. A final payment from a Russian-led $3 billion
bailout loan is planned for this year. The cash is tied to
policy measures, including some state asset sales that haven’t
been carried out.  Baumgertner’s detention “crosses every line,” Russian
First Deputy Prime Minister  Igor Shuvalov  told reporters
yesterday. Russian Prime Minister  Dmitry Medvedev  ordered the
government to resolve the situation with Belarus, Shuvalov said.  Russian billionaire  Suleiman Kerimov  who has a 22 percent
stake in Uralkali visited Belarus in May to rescue the faltering
relationship with Belarus. Both sides agreed to a commission
created by Lukashenko that would discuss the future of BPC. The
president announced the appointment of his son Viktor and local
KGB chief Valeriy Vakulchik to ensure the impartiality of the
new body.  “I am a supporter of one powerful trading channel, in
which there will be a parity of interests,” Lukashenko said at
the time.  ‘Outrageous Act’  Russian Ambassador to Belarus Alexander Surikov visited the
public prosecuor’s office in Minsk today with a petition to
allow to release Baumgertner from prison until trial, Vladimir
Marchukov, an embassy spokesman, said by phone. Deputy
Prosecutor-General Nikolai Kuklis declined to say how long it
will take to review the petition, Marchukov said. The Russian
ambassador is still waiting for permission to visit Baumgertner,
according to the embassy spokesman.  Uralkali Chairman  Alexander Voloshin  said Baumgertner’s
detention in Minsk was “an outrageous act.” Economic disputes
and differences that arise in business “should not be dealt
with in such a manner,” he said in a statement today.  The BPC advisory board chaired by Baumgertner is an
oversight body meeting only a few times a year and its chairman
has no authority to abuse, Voloshin said. The effective head of
BPC is its general director, who has always been appointed by
the Belarusians. Accusations of abuse of power against
Baumgertner “look simply absurd,” and the CEO should be
released and the legal pursuit of his colleagues ended, he said.  “I know Vladislav Baumgertner to be an honest and very
decent law-abiding citizen,” Voloshin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net ;
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk, Belarus at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  