-- Seoul Mayor Says Cooperating With North to Produce Leverage
-- B y   S a m   K i m   a n d   M a t t h e w   W i n k l e r
-- 2013-08-28T03:30:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/seoul-mayor-sees-south-cooperation-with-north-creating-leverage.html
South Korea should embrace a policy
of cooperation and economic assistance with totalitarian North
Korea to boost its leverage over the regime of Kim Jong Un,
Seoul Mayor Park Won Soon said.  Park, who manages a city of 10.2 million people generating
more than 20 percent of the output of Asia’s fourth-biggest
economy, said the South should develop more projects like the
Gaeseong Industrial Complex. The jointly run manufacturing park
in the North, which was shuttered in April, had 53,000 workers
and was a source of cheap labor for companies such as Seoul-based clothing firm  Shinwon Corp. (009270)  while providing hard currency
to the Kim regime.  “If we have more Gaeseong complexes, we can easily move
and change North Korea,” Park said in an interview yesterday in
his office decorated with a wall covered with Post-it messages
from constituents and skewed bookshelves as part of an Alice in
Wonderland theme designed to make the space more inviting.
“It’s an enormous source of income, especially the dollars. The
more leverage we have, the more weapons or means we have to
change and move North Korea.”  Nuclear Test  Gaeseong turned from a symbol of cooperation to one of
deteriorating relations when Pyongyang pulled out its workers in
April amid heightened tensions over the North’s testing of a
nuclear device and tighter United Nations sanctions against the
Kim regime. The North and South agreed this month to open
Gaeseong, an accord that led to talks on restarting reunions of
families separated by the Korean War, the latest sign of a thaw
between the two countries that remain divided 60 years after the
conflict.  Park, 57, said he hopes easing tensions will allow him to
tap the city’s North-South cooperation fund to revive joint
soccer matches, hold orchestra exchanges and provide
humanitarian aid to the North, which has suffered from famine
and food shortages. The fund is currently worth $17 million.  “We’ve had no opportunity to provide such humanitarian
support during the last government,” Park said, referring to
the administration of former President  Lee Myung Bak . With
tensions easing “there may be opportunities to exchange such
sports and art events and also the humanitarian support.”  Exploiting Discord  Mayor Park would need to make sure any aid plan would be
backed by the central government, said Lee Hochul, a political
science professor at Incheon National University.  “Park would have to stay in step with the central
government on providing humanitarian aid to North Korea because
the effectiveness of that aid would be undermined otherwise,'' 
Lee said. ``There is also always a chance North Korea could 
exploit any discord among South Korean officials so it can 
get more concessions.”  The North’s unwillingness to scrap its nuclear weapons
program limits how far South Korean President Park Geun Hye will
go in engaging Pyongyang, said Koh Yu Hwan, Seoul-based
professor of North Korean Studies at Dongguk University.  “Park Won Soon says humanitarian, social and cultural
exchanges should be maintained or expanded regardless of
politics while President Park’s trust-building process can move
at full speed only when there is progress on the North Korean
nuclear issue,” he said.  Urban Gardener  Park governs  Seoul  from a desk covered with four foot-high
stacks of paper. In one corner of his office the mayor does his
own urban gardening in a vegetable patch where he cares for
lettuce, tomatoes, eggplant and red pepper.  Prior to entering politics in 2011 with his independent bid
for the Seoul mayorship, Park was already a national figure,
having built a reputation as a civil-rights lawyer and anti-corruption campaigner. As a college student he provoked the ire
of President Park’s father, the dictator Park Chung Hee, for his
role in organizing anti-government protests in 1975. The unrest
prompted a crackdown in which the undergraduate was jailed for 
about four months and expelled from Seoul National University.  The mayor said the power of South Korean family run
conglomerates remains too strong. The so-called chaebols,
including Samsung Group, remains the backbone of the South
Korean economy. Since taking office, Park has sought to defend
small businesses, enforcing a law that ordered large box stores
to close at least one day every two weeks.  Costco Wholesale
Corp. (COST) , after resisting the edict, is abiding by the closing
rules.  Small Businesses  “The protection of traditional, small-size businesses is
very much needed, so we’ll continue,” Park said. “I’m now
really trying my best to support the small businesses or
traditional markets to be more creative in modernizing their
space, their management, their kindness to customers.”  The mayor has also challenged President Park. The central
government and the cities are meant to split the costs of one of
the president’s signature policies -- providing as much as
394,000 won ($353) a month to parents with children under the age of
5. Mayor Park says the city doesn’t have the money to cover
the payments.  In an effort to press the president, the city has put up
posters and TV screens carrying pleas to the central
government to increase its portion of the funding. The campaign
prompted the ruling party to file a complaint to the country’s
election commission against the mayor.  Childcare Payments  “The parliament and the central government have decided to
provide free allowances to children,” the mayor said. “But the
local government had assumed many parts of the spending.”  Park, who faces an election in June, earned a history
degree at Dankook University and later passed the bar
exam. He became a prosecutor for the southeastern city of Daegu,
only to quit within a year because he “didn’t like throwing
people in jail,” he said in a 2011 book he co-authored.  The Seoul mayorship has previously been a springboard for
national politics. Lee Myung Bak held the post before being
elected president in 2007. Asked about his future ambitions Park
would only say, “I have aspirations to be a good mayor.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Kim in Seoul at 
 skim609@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  