-- Sonia Gandhi Out of Hospital After Falling Sick During Debate
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a c A s k i l l   a n d   B i b h u d a t t a   P r a d h a n
-- 2013-08-27T04:04:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/sonia-gandhi-out-of-hospital-after-falling-sick-during-debate.html
Sonia Gandhi ,  India ’s most powerful
politician, who fell ill in parliament last evening shortly
before a landmark bill on  food security  was passed, left the
hospital early this morning.  The Italy-born Gandhi, 66, who has been the president of
the ruling Congress party since 1998, was seen shaking during a
rare speech in parliament yesterday when she urged lawmakers to
put aside their differences and pass the legislation to expand
the world’s biggest food program. Television footage showed her
walking unsteadily, holding the hand of a minister, as she left
parliament to be taken away in a car.  “She is back home and is fine now,” said Renuka Chowdhury, 
a spokeswomen for the ruling Congress party. Gandhi was admitted
to hospital with a viral fever, she said.  The widow of assassinated former Prime Minister  Rajiv Gandhi , Sonia is the fourth member of the Nehru-Gandhi family to
lead Congress, which has dominated Indian politics since
independence from British rule in 1947. She was named the
world’s ninth-most powerful person by  Forbes magazine  in 2013.  She underwent a surgery overseas in 2011 for an undisclosed
medical condition, which her party said was a private matter and
refused to comment further.  Gandhi’s party leads the federal coalition of Prime
Minister  Manmohan Singh , whom she picked to lead Congress
following an election victory in 2004.  She unexpectedly turned down the position of prime minister
after  leading Congress  and its allies to victory in 2004, amid
concerns her ancestry would be attacked by opponents. She
instead selected Singh to lead the country while staying as
Congress president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew MacAskill in  New Delhi  at 
 amacaskill@bloomberg.net ;
Bibhudatta Pradhan in New Delhi at 
 bpradhan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at   rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  