-- South Africa Shale Pits Shell Against Sheep Farmers
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-08-27T12:51:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/south-africa-shale-pits-shell-against-sheep-farmers.html
Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s shale gas
drilling plans for South Africa’s Karoo semi-desert are pitting
the government and its energy goals against farmers and
conservationists like billionaire Johann Rupert who say the land
will be spoiled.  The government  estimates  enough gas can be discovered to
generate 1 trillion rand ($100 billion) of sales within three
decades and help bring a country that imports 70 percent of its
crude oil  needs  closer to supplying its own energy demand.
Landowners are lining up against the water-intensive drilling
techniques that  Europe ’s biggest oil company intends to use.  “People don’t see what will happen,” Izak van der Merwe,
a 59-year old sheep farmer, said as he sipped a beer while
walking down a line of freshly slain antelope at the Murraysburg
Hunting Competition, 620 kilometers (385 miles) northeast of
 Cape Town . “The people at Shell don’t realize the kind of
ecosystem we have.”  At stake is a government drive to cut an unemployment rate
that’s higher than the national average of 25.6 percent in
Karoo, an arid area the size of the U.S. state of  Montana  with
little economic activity. The shale industry could be a “game
changer” for the economy, Trade Minister  Rob Davies  said in
parliament on Aug. 22. Exploration regulations may be passed by
the end of the current government’s term in April next year.  South Africa’s shale reserves, concentrated in the Karoo,
could be the world’s eighth-biggest behind countries like  China ,
where Shell plans to invest in the industry, and the U.S., where
it’s already producing the gas, the U.S. Energy Information
Administration said in June.  3,000 Landowners  Gas is more efficiently pumped from shale using hydraulic
fracturing, or fracking, where pressurized water, chemicals and
sand are injected underground to shatter rock and release the
fuel that’s trapped.  Opponents including Douglas Stern, a member of Agri Eastern
Cape, representing more than 3,000 landowners in the province,
say fracking could cause pollution, threatening the Karoo. The
region covers about a third of  South Africa , with its landscape
of sparse grass and shrubs supported by  annual rainfall  that can
be less than four inches, drier than  California ’s Mojave desert.
South Africa as a whole averages about 18 inches of rainfall a
year, according to the government.  “We’re going to be polluting our water,” Stern said in an
interview.  Farmers like van der Merwe, who owns 3,200 sheep, fear that
the drilling could end the lifestyle that some of their families
have had for more than a century.  Wool, Ostrich Meat  As one of the least- populated  areas in the country, the
Karoo produces most of South Africa’s wool and accounts for the
bulk of the country’s mohair output, export industries worth
about $330 million. Buyers include luxury suit-maker Ermenegildo
Zegna SpA. The region also produces sheep and ostrich meat.  Rupert, whose controlling stake in luxury goods-maker Cie.
Financiere Richemont AG accounts for two thirds of his $8.4
billion fortune, owns land in the area and is “very actively
involved in opposition to fracking,” Derek Light of Graaff-Reinet-based Derek Light Attorneys, representing the billionaire
and 400 landowners, said by phone. Rupert didn’t respond to
requests for an interview.  “There will be pollution causing a loss of  air quality  and
potential contamination of groundwater,” Light said in an e-mail. “These activities will impact negatively on agriculture
and undermine  food security ” and tourism will be damaged, he
said.  Fair Compensation  Shell plans to bring in water from sources including the
sea in “the initial exploration” period, and “local experts”
will be consulted prior drilling each well, it said on its
website. Shell has said it won’t compete with local communities
for fresh water, and that farmers may benefit from exploration.  “There will be fair compensation for land owners, the land
and the crops, and then there will be jobs for local
communities,” Claude Vanqa, Shell’s community relations
representative in the Karoo, told government officials May 23 in
Fraserburg in the Northern Cape province.  Shale gas could generate as many as 700,000 jobs in South
Africa, according to Shell, which cited a study by Johannesburg-based Econometrix.  Vanqa, who grew up in Beaufort West, in the Karoo about 400
kilometers northeast of Cape Town, has crisscrossed Shell’s
90,000-square kilometer lease area to make presentations to its
17 municipalities.  “We hope to be granted an exploration right within
months,” Janine Nel, a spokeswoman for the Hague-based company,
said by e-mail.  Best Practices  “The inter-departmental task team to establish best
practices for hydraulic fracturing hasn’t finished their work,”
Trevor Hattingh, a spokesman for the Department of Mineral
Resources, said by text message.  Minister Susan Shabangu is “in favor of the opportunities
it can unlock” and considerate of its impact on society and the
environment, he said.  Falcon Oil & Gas Ltd. (FO) , which was granted a technical
cooperation permit in 2009 for 30,000 square kilometers and has
a partnership with  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , is also waiting for permits.
Bundu Oil & Gas Exploration Pty Ltd., owned by Melbourne-based
Challenger Energy, has an application for about 4,144 square
kilometers.  Production could start within 10 years, adding to energy
options in South Africa which relies on coal-fired plants for 85
percent of its 41,900 megawatts of installed electricity
capacity.  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , based in Johannesburg, supplies more than
a fifth of the country’s motor fuel by processing coal.  Chains, Superglue  Karoo municipalities have requested estimates from Shell on
how many jobs the drilling would provide. Murraysburg had an
 unemployment rate  of 36 percent, according to a  2011 study  by
the provincial government.  “We were saying, in Fraserburg, the economy is not well,”
Vanqa said at the meeting. The company has started a corporate
social investment program in the Karoo.  France , the Netherlands, the  Czech Republic ,  Bulgaria  and
parts of  Germany  have restricted or banned fracking after public
protests.  Anti-shale demonstrators chained themselves to filing
cabinets after breaking into the head office of U.K. explorer
Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. in Lichfield, central  England , on Aug.
19 as they widened a campaign against drilling. Another group
superglued themselves to the office block housing the company’s
public relations advisers.  Mineral Rights  “If exploration licenses are issued to any company, we
will immediately appeal that process,” said Jonathan Deal, who
traded in his car this year for a Mercedes van covered with
“Treasure the Karoo” stickers, the name of his group, and has
campaigned in Karoo regions and towns. They will also sue the
state, Shell and other explorers, he said.  Landowners within the lease areas will probably only make a
fraction of what people have been paid who sit above shale
formations in Texas, Louisiana or  Pennsylvania , because the
farmers only hold surface rights while the government holds
mineral rights.  Fees paid to farmers “would be very nominal,” Megan Adderley, an associate with Cape Town-based law firm Bowman
Gilfillan, said. “The major impact would be on them and their
farms and they’re not really getting anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  