-- South African Carmakers Union to Decide on Strike Today
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y ,   A m o g e l a n g   M b a t h a   a n d   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-08-27T16:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/south-african-carmakers-union-to-decide-on-strike-today.html
South Africa may face strikes
involving as many as 335,000 workers after deadlocks in wage
negotiations between employers and the country’s biggest unions
spread to gas stations and car dealerships.  About 72,000 motor industry workers will walk out on Sept.
2 after a breakdown in wage talks between the  National Union of
Metalworkers of South Africa , the Fuel Retailers Association and
Retail Motor Industry Organization, the union said in a
statement today. They will join workers in the auto
manufacturing, construction and aviation industries who are
already on strike, while gold mining companies face the threat
of labor action.  Numsa “has taken a conscious decision to exercise our hard
fought democratic and constitutional right to embark on an
indefinite strike action,” spokesman Castro Ngobese said in an
e-mailed statement. “The strike action has not been on our
agenda, but it has been imposed on us” after the motor industry
didn’t meet its demands.  South Africa has been wracked by labor disputes for more
than a year, hurting economic growth. Inflation reached 6.3
percent in July, the highest in 15 months, while the rand has
weakened 18 percent against the dollar this year, the worst
performer of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  About 30,000 workers at plants operated by car
manufacturers including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG (BMW)  and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  have been on strike since Aug. 19,
while 600 technical staff at state-owned South African Airways
and 90,000 employees at building companies have also downed
tools.  ‘Remain Hopeful’  “From our statistics about 49 percent of canvassed
companies employees didn’t turn up for work on Aug. 26,”
Annemie Cowley, manager for communications and marketing at the
South African Federation of Civil Engineering Contractors said
in an e-mailed response to questions today. “We remain hopeful
that the strike will not be of a long-term nature. About 90,000
workers are employed in the civil engineering contracting
industry.”  Unions have rejected a 7.5 percent offer from the SAFCEC,
which has about 400 employer members including  Murray & Roberts
Holdings Ltd. (MUR)  and  Aveng Ltd. (AEG) , the country’s biggest builders,
according to the Federation.  “We are in continuous dialogue with NUM and BCAWU and
optimistic that an agreement can be reached through continued
dialogue,” SAFCEC’s Cowley said.  The National Union of Mineworkers, which is associated with
the ruling African National Congress, attended a meeting on gold
wages yesterday. The union has reached a point of non-resolution
with mining companies, according to its Secretary-General, Frans Baleni.  ‘Right Balance’  A gold-mining strike would result in 142,000 people
stopping work in an industry already impacted by a 15 percent
decline in the price of the metal. The six-member FTSE/JSE
Africa Gold Mining Index has fallen 37 percent this year
compared with a 9.8 percent rise in the FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index.  “Strikes are not the end of the world,” Finance Minister
 Pravin Gordhan  said at a mining conference in Johannesburg
today. “Let the workers and the employers find the right
balance. At the end of the day there must be enough cooperation
to create normality in our environment.”  The strike at South African Airways has caused only minor
disruption to flights, according to its spokesman Tlali Tlali.
There have been four flight delays since yesterday, he said.  “The company is still hopeful that a speedy resolution to
the current impasse can be found,” he said in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kevin Crowley in Johannesburg at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net ;
Amogelang Mbatha in Johannesburg at 
 ambatha@bloomberg.net ;
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  