-- Park Scraps Privatization Plan for Korea Development Bank
-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 2013-08-27T04:13:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/south-korea-scraps-privatization-plan-for-korea-development-bank.html
South Korea  scrapped a five-year-old
proposal to sell  Korea  Development Bank, a signal President Park Geun Hye will use the nation’s biggest policy lender to channel
more funds to companies.  The government proposes merging the lender with Korea
Finance Corp. by July 2014 while selling the brokerage unit and
other assets, the Financial Services Commission said in a
statement today. The regulator will submit a revised version of
the KDB Act, a mandate to break up holding company  KDB Financial
Group Inc. , to parliament this year, it said.  Park, who came to power in February, plans to use policy
banks to spur economic growth amid tight liquidity and limited
investor demand for banking assets. South Korea in June began
its fourth attempt to sell  Woori Finance  Holdings Co. -- this
time by breaking it into pieces -- weeks before  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HSBA)  said it would wind down some of its local operations after
failing to find a buyer.  “Park’s administration is taking the right steps in
reversing the previous government’s plan for KDB’s
privatization,” said Michael Na, a Seoul-based analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. “By letting policy banks and commercial
banks fulfill their separate functions, Park will be able to
boost overseas investors’ trust in South Korean markets.”  Unit Sales  The timing and details for selling KDB units Daewoo
Securities Co., KDB Asset Management Co., KDB Capital Corp. and
KDB Life Insurance Co. are yet to be determined, the FSC said.  The KDB Act currently requires the government to begin
selling shares of  Korea Development Bank  by May 2014. South
Korea is still open to considering an initial public offering
for the lender as long as it remains a controlling shareholder
to maintain a policy financing focus, the FSC said.  “Since the 2008 global financial crisis, policy financing
becomes even more important for restructuring companies and
acting as a safety valve in the market,” FSC Secretary-General
Koh Seung Beom told reporters today. Since the previous
government laid out the privatization plans in June 2008, the
market for selling the assets has deteriorated due to the global
financial crisis and  Europe ’s debt woes, Koh said.  South Korea plans to retain more than a 50 percent stake in
 Industrial Bank of Korea , the FSC said. The government owns 72
percent of the largest lender to the country’s small and
midsized companies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lee’s Strategy  Previous President Lee Myung Bak sought to trim the fiscal
deficit by paring stakes in assets including KDB and Industrial
Bank, as well as Incheon International Airport Corp.  The regulator said today that it will strengthen financing
for the nation’s ship industry by providing guarantees on debt
sold by ship owners.  STX Pan Ocean Co. (028670) , South Korea’s biggest commodities
shipping line, on June 7 filed for court receivership after a
drop in rates left it unable to pay off its debt. KDB on Aug. 22
said it would provide the company 200 billion won ($179 million)
for working capital.  Korea Development Bank was founded in 1954 to fund
reconstruction and industrial development after the  Korean War .
The bank made a failed attempt to buy Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in 2008, before the Wall Street firm filed for bankruptcy.  Operations Split  In 2009, the lender’s operations were split and KDB
Financial was created under the KDB Act to oversee them. Korea
Finance was set up to do policy lending, leaving KDB with the
roles of commercial lending, deposit taking and  investment
banking .  KDB Financial  owns  43 percent of Daewoo Securities, South
Korea’s second-biggest brokerage by market value, according to
company data. A sale of the unit would follow the government’s
attempt to sell larger rival Woori Investment & Securities Co.  The government began taking bids for Woori Investment
earlier this month as part of a plan to divest its parent
company, Woori Finance. Preliminary bidding for the brokerage,
asset management and insurance units ends on Oct. 21. South
Korea has failed to sell Woori Finance three times since 2010
due to lack of investor interest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  