-- South African Economy Expands Slower Than Expected at 3%
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-08-27T10:55:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/south-african-second-quarter-gdp-growth-accelerates-to-3-.html
South Africa ’s economy grew at a
slower pace than economists predicted in the second quarter as
mining and farming output slumped.  Gross domestic product  rose an annualized 3 percent, the
fastest pace in a year, compared with 0.9 percent in the first
three months of the year, Statistics South  Africa  said in a
report released in  Pretoria  today. The median  estimate  of 18
economists in a Bloomberg survey was 3.3 percent.  Strikes and slumping consumer and business  confidence  may
limit growth in Africa’s largest economy in the second half of
the year, according to the  Reserve Bank , which has kept its
benchmark repurchase rate at 5 percent for more than a year to
keep inflation under control. The bank in July lowered its
forecast for economic growth for this year to 2 percent from 2.4
percent.  The Reserve Bank’s outlook is that “growth is still
relatively weak,” Adenaan Hardien, chief economist at Cadiz
Asset Management, said in a phone interview from  Cape Town .
“The fact that there are supply disruptions in mining and now
also  manufacturing (SFPMNSAY) , the economy is not really firing on all
cylinders.”  Mining contracted an annualized 5.7 percent in the second
quarter from the previous three months, while agriculture fell
3.7 percent, the statistics agency said. Manufacturing, which
makes up about 15 percent of the economy, surged 11.5 percent as
production rebounded from the first quarter, when plant
maintenance and fire-related stoppages curbed output.  Autoworkers Strike  Manufacturing may come under pressure this quarter as a
strike that began on Aug. 19 by thousands of autoworkers shut
plants owned by Toyota Motor Corp. and  General Motors Co. (GM)  to
demand higher pay. The stoppages are costing the industry 700
million rand ($67 million) a day in lost output, according to an
industry group.  The rand gained to 10.3450 against the dollar from 10.3818
before the data was released and was trading at 10.3938 as of
12:30 p.m. in Johannesburg. Yields on the government bond due in
December 2026 rose 2 basis points to 8.526 percent.  Policy makers have been reluctant to reduce  interest rates 
as the rand’s 18 percent plunge against the dollar this year
pushed the inflation rate above the 3 percent to 6 percent
target for the first time in 15 months in July.  Construction output increased an annualized 1.2 percent in
the second quarter, retail trade gained 3.2 percent and finance
rose 3.5 percent, the statistics office said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  