-- Spar of South Africa to Open Angola Store With Partner
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w   a n d   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 2013-08-27T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/spar-of-south-africa-to-open-angola-store-with-partner.html
Spar Group Ltd. (SPP) , a South African
food and liquor retailer, is working with an Angolan partner to
open a store in the country’s capital, Luanda, in the next six
months, Finance Director Mark Godfrey said.  “Spar will provide products and logistics support,”
Godfrey said in an interview last week. “We decided some time
ago that in taking our business model to  Africa  we needed local
expertise or we were wasting our time.” Godfrey declined to
name the Angolan partner.  As food retail in South Africa is becoming more
competitive, grocers are expanding in the rest of Africa.
 Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP) , South Africa’s largest retailer, opened
its first store in  Luanda  in 2003. It has 153 supermarkets
outside South Africa in 16 African countries.  Massmart Holdings Ltd. (MSM) , the South African food and goods
wholesaler owned by  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , with 44 stores on the
continent outside of South Africa, said Aug. 22 that it plans to
shift some focus from South Africa to elsewhere on its home
continent because consumers are struggling to repay debt as
unemployment rises and accelerating inflation curbs profit
growth.  Carrefour SA (CA) , the French-based retailer in partnership
with distributor  CFAO SA (CFAO) , plans to open shops in eight African
countries.  “There has been a very clear change in Spar’s thinking
about Africa in the past 18 months, looking to grow its
presence,” said Kirsty Laschinger, retail analyst at SBG
Securities Ltd. in Johannesburg. “Angola is a tough geography
with increasing competition, but it’s a big economy and if you
are looking to grow in the west coast of Africa you have to be
in the big countries.”  With gross domestic product of $114 billion, Angola is sub-Saharan Africa’s third-biggest economy after South Africa and
Nigeria. The economy is forecast by the country’s central bank
to expand 6.5 percent this year.  Partner Decides  South Africa will probably cut its economic growth forecast
for this year to as low as 2 percent, Finance Minister  Pravin
Gordhan  said July 19.  While Spar, which is based in Pinetown near the city of
Durban, may supply most of the goods sold in the Angolan store,
some products will be sourced locally, with the Angolan partner
deciding on the speed that further stores will be opened,
Godfrey said. Spar already has stores in Swaziland, Namibia,
Mozambique and Botswana. It owns 35 percent of Spar Zimbabwe,
which is expanding into Zambia.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net ;
Colin McClelland in Luanda at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  