-- Spurs Put Sale of Bale to Real Madrid on Hold: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-08-27T08:13:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/spurs-put-sale-of-bale-to-real-madrid-on-hold-soccer-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Bale Delay  Tottenham Hotspur may delay the sale of Gareth Bale to Real
Madrid until after a Sept. 1 Premier League match against London
rival Arsenal, the  Daily Telegraph reported .  The Spanish club had hoped to unveil Bale today after
agreeing in principle to buy him for a world-record fee of 90
million pounds ($140 million), though Spurs will not release the
forward until a replacement is signed, the newspaper added.  Spurs chairman  Daniel Levy  stalled the transfer because
he’s frustrated with Real’s approach to the deal and Bale was
ordered back to training, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Lamela Transfer Close  Roma forward Erik Lamela will complete his 30 million-pound
transfer to Spurs in the next 24 hours, the  Daily Star reported .  Lamela, a 21-year-old Argentina international, will fly to
England to conclude talks on personal terms which began last
week between his agent and Tottenham technical director Franco Baldini, the newspaper added.  Trio Available  Striker Karim Benzema, midfielder Mesut Ozil and winger
Angel  Di Maria  may all be sold to Premier League clubs as Real
seeks to fund the deal for Bale and a bid for Liverpool striker
 Luis Suarez , the  Mirror reported .  Benzema has been offered to Arsenal, which is said to be
interested in all three Madrid players, the newspaper added.
 Manchester United  has been sounded out about the trio, whose
sale could raise 100 million pounds, the Mirror said.  Rooney Ultimatum  Chelsea manager  Jose Mourinho  challenged  Wayne Rooney  to go
public if he still wants to leave Manchester United and said he
would give the striker until tomorrow to make clear his
intentions, the  Guardian reported .  United’s position on Rooney is unchanged, meaning a third
bid from Chelsea will be rejected even if the England forward
hands in a transfer request, the newspaper added.  Fellaini Bid  United plans to make a 20 million-pound bid for Everton’s
Marouane Fellaini after failing with a combined offer of 28
million pounds for the Belgian midfielder and England left-back
 Leighton Baines , the  Daily Telegraph reported .  While Everton has publicly resisted United’s efforts to
sign Fellaini, manager  Roberto Martinez  has identified Wigan’s
James McCarthy as a potential replacement, the newspaper added.  Editor: Alex Duff  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  