-- Sting-Inspired Zenyatta Climbs on Canadian Graphite Find
-- B y   G e r r i t   D e   V y n c k   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2013-08-27T20:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/sting-inspired-zenyatta-climbs-on-canadian-graphite-find.html
Zenyatta Ventures Ltd. (ZEN)  has soared
1,700 percent in the past year after discovering a graphite
deposit it said may be among the world’s most valuable. Now the
explorer has to prove it.  The C$202 million ($193 million) Canadian company, which
has no revenue or income, is the second-best performer among the
country’s natural-resource stocks. The shares climbed after it
said the grade of graphite from its  Albany  project in northwest
Ontario may rival the world’s highest-quality supplies, which
are used in nuclear power plants and metal refining.  “They have to prove the size of their deposit, the cost of
producing the graphite and that there’s demand for the
production,” Jon Hykawy, a Toronto-based analyst at Byron
Capital Markets Ltd., said in an Aug. 22 telephone interview.
“The sooner the better for everyone.”  Graphite, which like diamonds and coal is a form of carbon,
is prized for its capacity to conduct heat and electricity.
Natural graphite is used in brake linings, high-temperature
lubricants, pencils and to strengthen products including steel,
 golf clubs  and tennis rackets.  Natural supplies come in three varieties including vein
graphite, which commands the highest prices and is only mined in
 Sri Lanka . A synthetic variety, made from petroleum coke, vies
with vein graphite for use in  lithium-ion batteries  for iPads
and hybrid vehicles.  Zenyatta Mondatta  Thunder Bay, Ontario-based Zenyatta, which takes its name
from The Police’s 1980 “ Zenyatta Mondatta ” album, says its
deposit is similar to Sri Lankan supplies and the graphite can
be refined to synthetic standards at a lower cost.  “We’re talking to some downstream companies that are
reviewing this and saying that this is some amazing stuff,”
Zenyatta Chief Executive Officer Aubrey Eveleigh, who keeps a
vinyl version of the record by the Sting-led band in his office,
said in an Aug. 16 telephone interview. “They’ll test it and
see what applications it can go into.”  Zenyatta dropped 1.9 percent to C$3.67 at the close in
Toronto. Its 18-fold increase in the past year compares with an
average 34 percent drop for the 1,717 other Canadian resource
companies tracked by Bloomberg as prices from gold to copper
slumped after  China’s economy  slowed. The company’s performance
ranks behind only that of  Alpha Minerals Inc. (AMW) , a uranium
explorer that is a takeover target.  Cliffs Stake  The near-surface  Albany deposit , about 400 kilometers (250
miles) northeast of Thunder Bay, is 30 kilometers north of the
Trans-Canada Highway and 70 kilometers away from a railway line,
the company said in November.  Zenyatta plans to release a formal geological analysis of
the deposit later this year and complete a preliminary economic
assessment in 2014 to find out if the deposit can be exploited
profitably, according to the company’s  website .  Cleveland-based  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF) , the largest
U.S. iron-ore producer, has a stake of about 10 percent in
Zenyatta. The two companies are working together to explore
northern Ontario for base metals, said Patricia Persico, a
Cliffs spokeswoman.  “Graphite isn’t a strategic focus for Cliffs, but because
we have an equity holding in Zenyatta we have exposure to their
project,” Persico said Aug. 23 by phone. She declined to
comment on prospects for development of Zenyatta’s deposit.  ‘Weird and Strange’  Zenyatta discovered the graphite deposit in 2011 while
looking for copper and nickel.  “We drove into this, it looked weird and strange,”
Eveleigh said. “We didn’t really know what we had.”  Some analysts are taking a wait-and-see attitude about what
Zenyatta has, said Simon Moores, a London-based graphite-industry analyst at Industrial Minerals Data.  “There are doubters only because it’s hard for people to
understand the deposit,” Moores said by phone on Aug. 22. “Its
size and formation is unique and therefore Zenyatta’s plans for
it will have to differ somewhat from that of other juniors in
the market.”  Northern Graphite Corp. (NGC)  and  Focus Graphite Inc. (FMS) , both based
in Ottawa, are among companies seeking to exploit Canadian
graphite deposits. Northern, which is concentrating on its C$103
million Bissett Creek project in Ontario, and Focus, which plans
to develop its Lac Knife deposit in  Quebec , both have declined
20 percent in the past year.  ‘Tremendous Success’  Since the onset of the global financial crisis in 2008, the
benchmark price of graphite has risen 42 percent on demand from
economies such as  China  and  India , according to Industrial
Minerals.  China leads the world in graphite mining, accounting for
about 68 percent of 2012 output, according to an industry
 summary  from the  U.S. Geological Survey . India, the second-largest, mined about 14 percent of global output, with  Brazil 
third at 6.8 percent.  Zenyatta’s story has inspired other companies to explore
near Albany.  “Zenyatta’s such a tremendous success,” said Mike England, CEO of  Caribou King Resources Ltd. (CKR) , a Vancouver-based
prospector for gold, copper and graphite. “So we kind of had to
get over there and get some land.”  Caribou acquired 3,840 acres (1,554 hectares) of
exploration land about 20 kilometers west of Zenyatta’s plot,
according to an Aug. 15 statement.  “Maybe we can get a sniff, maybe we can find something as
well,” England said by phone on Aug. 15.  Eveleigh, too, is looking forward to probing the far
reaches of Zenyatta’s land holding.  “Our property’s quite big, it’s 15 kilometers by 15
kilometers,” Eveleigh said. “It’s a big block of ground.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gerrit De Vynck in Toronto at 
 gdevynck@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Donville in Vancouver at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  