-- Streaming TV Doesn’t Infringe Copyrights, Court Told
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y   a n d   M a u r i c e   P o s s l e y
-- 2013-08-27T19:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/streaming-tv-doesn-t-infringe-copyrights-court-told.html
A company that streams TV shows to
subscribers petitioned appeals judges in  California  to overturn
a lower-court ruling that granted broadcasters’ bid to shut down
the service in the state.  FilmOn X LLC, based in  Beverly Hills  and founded by Alki David, told judges at a hearing in  Pasadena  today that it isn’t
infringing copyrights by capturing broadcasters’ over-the-air
signals with its small remotely located antennas and
retransmitting the programming to its customers.  “The rulings of the district court in these cases should
be reversed,” Ryan Baker, a lawyer for FilmOn X, told the
judges. They said they would rule later.  Baker argued that the California appeals court should
follow a decision by the appeals court in New York. The New York
court ruled against an injunction that would have shut down
Aereo Inc., which has a technology similar to FilmOn’s. The
appeals panel in  New York , affirming a lower-court order, said
that Aereo’s retransmissions are private rather than public
performances under copyright law and thus don’t need to be
licensed.  Private Performance  “When someone inserts themselves as a middleman and tries
to make a profit, licenses should be obtained,” Robert Garrett,
a lawyer for Comcast Corp.’s NBC, told the judges. “Singing in
the shower is a private performance. Sending transmissions to
50,000 customers is not singing in the shower.”  Fox Broadcasting, a unit of  Twenty-First Century Fox Inc. (FOXA) ,
sued FilmOn X in 2012, claiming that it violates Fox’s exclusive
rights to reproduce and perform its works publicly and that the
service doesn’t have a license to transmit its programming. Fox
and other broadcasters, including  CBS Corp. (CBS) , NBC and  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ABC, are fighting unlicensed online streaming services
because they are a threat to the revenue the broadcast networks
receive from cable and satellite TV providers.  Aereo and FilmOn X both argued that because each of the
transmissions comes from a single antenna to a single
subscriber, it is a private performance under copyright law.  “Isn’t your problem that this is an innovation for the
sole purpose of avoiding the statute?” U.S. District Judge
Brian Cogan, who was on the appeals panel, today asked FilmOn
X’s lawyer. “Maybe you’ve succeeded.”  Baker replied, “The purpose was to comply with the law.
The only type of performance that is enabled by FilmOn X is
private.”  Clear Laws  U.S. Circuit Judge Diarmuid O’Scannlain suggested that this
might be an issue for the  U.S. Congress  to resolve. The
Copyright Act that contains the provision about public
performance was enacted in 1976.  “Is this a matter that is a judicial issue or a matter to
be dealt with by Congress?” O’Scannlain asked.  FilmOn X founder David said in a telephone interview before
the hearing that “broadcast laws are very clear about this.
Broadcasters got their licenses by making their signals
available by any technology.”  U.S. District Judge George Wu granted the broadcasters’
motion for an injunction and FilmOn X appealed. Wu denied the
broadcasters’ petition to extend the injunction beyond
California and several other states and they appealed that
ruling.  If the California appeals court upholds Wu’s injunction, it
will create a legal split between the two federal circuits,
which might result in a Supreme Court review.  Offers Rejected  Garrett told the judges to “allow the marketplace to
function here and allow the parties to negotiate licenses.”  David said he had approached the broadcasters and offered
to pay for licenses for their programming and the offers were
rejected. He said the FilmOn X service is in about a dozen U.S.
markets and in  Europe . Its revenue comes primarily from
advertising not subscriber fees, he said. The FilmOn X service
previously was called Aereokiller.  FilmOn X has also been sued by broadcasters in the federal
court for the  District of Columbia . No ruling has been made yet
on an injunction.  The lower-court case is Fox Broadcast Stations v.
Aereokiller, 12-6921, U.S. District Court, Central District of
California. The appeal is Fox Television Stations v.
Aereokiller, 13-55156,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Ninth
Circuit (Pasadena).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net ;
Maurice Possley in U.S. Court of Appeals in Pasadena,
California, at  mauricepossley@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  