-- Sullivan & Cromwell, Goodwin, Gibson: Business of Law
-- B y   E l l e n   R o s e n
-- 2013-08-27T13:02:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/sullivan-cromwell-goodwin-gibson-business-of-law.html
Sullivan & Cromwell LLP represented
 Amgen Inc. (AMGN)  in its $10.4 billion acquisition of  Onyx
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ONXX)  while Goodwin Procter LLP represented Onyx.  Sullivan & Cromwell attorneys on the deal were Frank Aquila, Matthew Hurd and Sarah Payne, corporate; Matthew Friestedt, executive compensation and benefits; John Estes,
financing; Ronald Creamer Jr., tax, and Nader Mousavi,
intellectual property, along with special counsel Spencer Simon,
intellectual property, and Matthew Brennan, environmental.  The Goodwin team representing Onyx was led by Stuart Cable
and included James Matarese, Bradley Bugdanowitz, Lynda Galligan
and Danielle Lauzon.  Amgen will pay $125 a share for Onyx’s outstanding stock,
the companies said in a statement Aug. 25.  The deal gives Amgen access to a rapidly expanding cancer-drug market with a new product that offers revenue. Onyx’s
Kyprolis, approved last year for a rare blood cancer, may spur
more than $3 billion in revenue by 2021, according to analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. South San Francisco-based Onyx
is now studying the medicine in an expanded group of patients.  Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP partners Barbara Becker and
Dennis Friedman represented Lazard Ltd., one of Amgen’s
financial advisers. Bank of America also was a financial adviser
to Amgen and while  Centerview Partners  was a financial adviser
to Onyx.  For more on the deal, click here.  Davis Polk, WilmerHale Work on Bats-Direct Edge Deal  Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP and Wilmer Cutler Pickering Hale
& Dorr LLP worked on the merger of Bats Global Markets Inc. and
Direct Edge Holdings LLC, which was announced yesterday. The
deal unites two of the biggest American exchange operators amid
a four-year decline in volume.  Davis Polk lawyers advising Bats are Leonard Kreynin,
corporate; Kathleen L. Ferrell and Neil Barr, tax; Jean M. McLoughlin, executive compensation; Annette L. Nazareth,
financial institutions; and Michael N. Sohn and Ronan P. Harty,
antitrust.  The WilmerHale team advising Direct Edge includes Stephanie Evans, corporate; James Lowe and Lee Greenfield, antitrust; A. William Caporizzo, tax; Bruce Newman, regulatory and R. Scott Kilgore, employment.  Joe Ratterman, the chief executive officer of Bats, will
keep that role at the combined firm, while Direct Edge CEO
William O’Brien will be president. Financial details weren’t
disclosed.  Formed by some of the fastest traders on Wall Street, the
closely held companies have watched volume dry up in the U.S.,
cutting profits at the proprietary trading firms they count
among their biggest customers. Shares changing hands on all U.S.
exchanges have fallen 36 percent since 2009 to 6.3 billion
shares a day in 2013 and profits for high-frequency traders
slipped 80 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
Rosenblatt Securities Inc.  The companies’ four exchanges will keep operating, using
Bats’s technology, according to a statement. The combination
will be headquartered near  Kansas  City, Missouri. Bats is based
in Lenexa, Kansas.  In the Courts  Billionaire Blavatnik Wins $42.5 Million JPMorgan Judgment  Billionaire Leonard Blavatnik won a $42.5 million breach of
contract award against  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  over claims that
because the bank put risky mortgage securities in a fund, he
lost 10 percent of his $1 billion investment. Blavatnik lost a
negligence claim against the bank.  Blavatnik, 56, ranked 51st on Bloomberg’s billionaires
index with a net worth of $15.6 billion, sued JPMorgan in 2009
in New York State Supreme Court in Manhattan, accusing the
biggest U.S. bank by assets of putting more money into mortgage
securities in his CMMF fund than investment guidelines allowed.  Justice Melvin Schweitzer, who presided over a two-week
trial this year, ruled that J.P. Morgan Investment Management
breached its contract with Blavatnik’s CMMF fund by exceeding a
20 percent cap on mortgage securities. The judge awarded $42.5
million in damages plus interest, in a ruling dated Aug. 21 and
made public yesterday.  J.P. Morgan Investment Management classified some mortgage
investments in the account as asset-backed securities,
increasing the amount of the fund’s mortgage assets to as much
as 60 percent of the portfolio, Schweitzer said.  “Whether JPMIM had its own understanding that the ‘asset-backed securities’ category included some types of mortgage-backed securities is of no moment,” Schweitzer said. “There is
no evidence that this was ever communicated to CMMF during the
negotiations.”  “I hope that this decision sends a clear message to
JPMorgan that they have to honor their obligations to their
clients,” Blavatnik said.  Schweitzer found in favor of J.P. Morgan on Blavatnik’s
claim of negligence and breach of fiduciary duty, saying that
evidence shows that the securities were “relatively safe and
desirable” at the time they were bought.  “We are pleased the court rejected CMMF’s negligence claim
and found that our investment professionals lived up to their
responsibilities,” Doug Morris, a spokesman for JPMorgan, said
in a statement. “We respectfully disagree with the court’s
interpretation of our agreement with CMMF and are considering
our options regarding that finding.”  The case is CMMF LLC v. J.P. Morgan Investment Management
Inc., 601924-09, New York State Supreme Court ( Manhattan ).  Law Firm Moves  Environmental Protection Agency Lawyer Joins McDermott  Jacob Hollinger is joining McDermott Will & Emery LLP as a
partner in its energy advisory practice in New York.  Hollinger had been at the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency, where he was senior attorney for all Clean Air Act
enforcement, litigation, permitting and rulemaking matters for
Region 2, which includes New York and New Jersey in its
jurisdiction.  Before the EPA, Hollinger was an assistant attorney general
for the State of New York and New York’s lead litigation counsel
in several complex environmental and energy-related matters,
including a federal Clean Air Act trial.  Nixon Peabody Adds Employee Benefits Lawyer in San Francisco  Karen Ng has joined the San Francisco office of Nixon
Peabody LLP. Previously she led the employee benefits practice
at Sedgwick LLP.  According to a statement from the firm, Ng focuses on the
structuring and financing of transactions involving employee
stock ownership plans, as well as the role of ESOPs and other
benefit plans in corporate mergers, acquisitions, IPOs,
restructurings and ownership succession arrangements.  Her practice also extends to all aspects and types of
employee retirement plans, welfare benefit plans and executive
compensation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ellen Rosen in New York at 
 erosen14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  