-- Stocks in Switzerland Drop; Zurich Insurance, UBS Decline
-- B y   C o r i n n e   G r e t l e r
-- 2013-08-27T15:44:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/swiss-stocks-drop-zurich-insurance-schindler-decline.html
Stocks in Switzerland  declined the
most in two months, snapping three days of gains for the
benchmark index, after U.S. Secretary of State  John Kerry  said
the Obama administration will hold Syria liable for using
chemical weapons.  Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , the biggest Swiss insurer, fell
2.4 percent after Chief Financial Officer Pierre Wauthier was
found dead at his home yesterday.  UBS AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse Group
AG, the country’s largest lenders, slumped more than 2.5
percent, following European banks lower.  Roche Holding AG  fell
1.1 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  dropped 1.7 percent to 7,886.07 at
the close of trading in Zurich. The equity gauge rose 0.6
percent last week, as measures of manufacturing in the euro area
and  China  increased more than forecast. The measure has  advanced
16 percent so far this year.  The broader Swiss Performance Index
also slid 1.7 percent today.  “The markets are primarily burdened by the uncertainty
about the further development of the Syrian crisis,” said
Michele Rimann, a trader at Luzerner Kantonalbank AG in Lucerne,
 Switzerland . “Investors are uncertain and fear the consequences
that a military strike against Syria would have. It seems that
markets are slowly but surely not able to withstand negative
news so well anymore.”  The volume of shares changing hands in SMI-listed companies
was 11 percent higher than the average of the last 30 days,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Syrian Conflict  Kerry denounced last week’s attack on a suburb of Damascus,
saying it required a response against Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s regime. Syrian opposition groups say the strike
killed more than 1,300 people.  “The indiscriminate slaughter of civilians, the killing of
women and children and innocent bystanders by chemical weapons,
is a moral obscenity,” Kerry told reporters in  Washington  late
yesterday.  Iran’s Foreign Ministry today warned that a U.S. attack on
 Syria  would drag the whole region into conflict.  In the U.S., data released today showed that residential
real-estate prices increased in June at close to the fastest
pace in seven years.  The S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
rose 12.1 percent in June from the same month in 2012 after
rising 12.2 percent in the year ended in May, which was the
biggest gain since March 2006, the group said today in  New York .
The increase matched the median forecast of 25 economists in a
Bloomberg survey.  Zurich Insurance  Zurich Insurance dropped 2.4 percent to 237.60 Swiss
francs, the lowest price in two months. The police are
investigating the circumstances of Wauthier’s death, the company
said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday, declining to
disclose further details.  UBS and Credit Suisse lost 2.7 percent to 18.26 francs and
3.3 percent to 27.59 francs, respectively. A gauge of European
banks was the  second-worst performer  of the 19 industry groups
in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index. Julius Baer Group Ltd. fell 2
percent to 41.30 francs.  Roche, the world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, dropped
1.1 percent to 239.20 francs.  Actelion Ltd. slipped 1.5 percent to 64.30 francs. The
drugmaker that gets almost 90 percent of sales from a treatment
for a rare  lung disease  said Andre Muller will replace Chief
Financial Officer Andrew Oakley, who is leaving to “focus on
opportunities outside Actelion.” Muller will start in the
position on Sept. 1.  Syngenta AG (SYNN)  slid 1.1 percent to 367.60 francs, the most in
a month. The world’s largest maker of crop chemicals said it
will submit a legal challenge to the European Commission’s
suspension of thiamethoxam, saying the decision was based on an
inaccurate and incomplete assessment by the European Food Safety
Authority and wrongly linked the pesticide to the decline of bee
health.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corinne Gretler in Zurich at 
 cgretler1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  