-- Syrian War Helps Beirut Port Boost Lebanon Economy
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2013-08-27T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/syrian-war-helps-beirut-port-boost-lebanon-economy.html
At the  Port of Beirut , three trucks
hauling yellow and orange containers wait for cranes to load
their cargo onto a Liberian-flagged ship recently arrived from
the Saudi port of Jeddah and headed for  Greece .  About 2,200 such vehicles enter the port daily, twice the
number at the start of the year, and the multicolored containers
are stacked up five high rather than three. While Lebanon’s
growth has suffered during the 2 1/2 year conflict next door in
Syria, port traffic has risen as traders avoid risky overland
transit. Domestic demand also is increasing as Lebanon absorbs
1.2 million Syrians fleeing their war-torn country.  “Compared to the many negatives of what’s happening in
Syria and the impact on the Lebanese economy, the increase in
port activity is one of the positive consequences,” said Jihad Azour, a former Lebanese finance minister who’s now vice
president of advisory firm Booz & Co. in  Beirut .  The port, which services carriers including AP Moeller-Maersk A/S, the world’s largest container line, Mediterranean
Shipping Co SA and CMA CGM SA, saw a  24 percent  jump in revenue
during the first six months of this year from 2012, according to
its website.  International Port Management , the group overseeing
the company running the terminal, will complete an expansion by
November, lifting capacity by as much as 60 percent.  “The port is severely congested,” Chairman Ammar Kanaan
said in an interview in Beirut. “It’s like placing 20 people in
a car that fits five.”  Trade Flurry  The activity is reflected in Lebanon’s trade figures even
as the economy in the country of 4.3 million people grows at a
fraction of the pace before the start of the uprising against
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad in March 2011.  Gross domestic product will rise 2 percent this year, up
from a rate of 1.5 percent in each of the previous two years,
though below 7 percent in 2010, according to a forecast in the
International Monetary Fund’s April World Economic Outlook.  Exports rose 6.5 percent in January through June, and
imports jumped 11.5 percent “under the influence of the Syrian
situation,” Central Bank Governor Riad Salameh said in an Aug.
16 interview at his office in Beirut.  The U.S. and its allies this week condemned an alleged
chemical attack by the Syrian government on a rebel-held area
and are moving closer to a decision on military action. U.S.
Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel said yesterday U.S. forces are
“ready to go,” while Syrian Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem
said the government won’t surrender.  More Traffic  Lebanon’s importers of  consumer goods  have stepped up their
orders of canned food; paint and other raw materials for small
industries; cables, switches and other electrical items and
plastics to cater to the rising population, according to Nassif
Saleh, owner of  Saleh Shipping , a company at the port.  “Local traffic has increased even though the economy has
slowed,” said Saleh, whose business grew 17 percent in 2012 and
8.4 percent in the first half of 2013 from a year ago.  Cargo handled at the Beirut container terminal has swelled
to about 1 million 20-foot equivalent units, or TEUs, a year,
from 350,000 in 2005, the year it opened after a port revamp,
Kanaan said. The planned extension will increase the capacity to
at least 1.5 million to 1.6 million TEUs annually, he said.  Beirut still is dwarfed among Mediterranean container ports
by Valencia and Algeciras in  Spain  to the west, both of which
handle more than 4 million TEUs a year, and Port Said at the
mouth of the  Suez Canal  in  Egypt . The Lebanese capital is also
smaller than Piraeus in Greece, shipping statistics show.  Limited Impact  That limits the impact of shipping on the economy. The
increased activity at the port will contribute positively “but
it won’t compensate for all the cost that the Syrian conflict”
is inflicting, such as a drop in tourism and building activity,
said Azour, the former finance minister.  With the conflict showing no signs of ending, Beirut has
greater scope to increase the amount of transshipments it
handles as the new capacity comes on line. These are goods that
pass through a container terminal en route for other
destinations and are a measure of a port’s competitiveness.  While cargos have increased, transshipments have been
declining, said Shailesh Garg, director and general manager for
London-based consulting company Drewry Shipping in  India .  The total dropped 12 percent to 217,958 TEUs in the first
seven months of the year, accounting for about 35 percent of
handled cargo, according to data from Drewry. Transshipments
through Port Said’s larger terminal were as much as 90 percent
of total traffic in 2012, while the proportion is 70 percent to
80 percent at the competing facility on Piraeus, Garg said.  Longer Route  Shipping activity in Beirut has increased as the Syrian war
caused fewer goods to be carried overland. Lebanon is blocked by
 Israel  to the south, so  Syria  is the country’s only legal land-access route for exports. At the same time, international
financial sanctions against Assad have forced Syrian merchants
to buy their products through Lebanon rather than importing
directly into the country.  Some trade with oil-rich Gulf countries was handled
overland via Syria until the conflict got bloodier, said Amer
Kaissi, owner of  General Transporting Services  in Beirut. Kaissi
said land shipping stopped in 2012 for a year and then restarted
about three months ago at less than half the volume.  “The merchants are scared,” Kaissi said. Plus, insurers
largely aren’t covering against war and hold-ups, and if they do
they’re charging a very high premium.  Safer by Sea  Ara Bedirian, owner of Lebanon plastics maker  Polymer
Process Industries , said companies he deals with -- including
 Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s biggest petrochemicals
company by stock market value, and  Qatar Petrochemical Co.  --
started sending raw plastics to his company by sea more than
seven months ago.  While the new route is safer, it’s meant an increase in his
clearing costs to as much as $45 per ton from $5, Bedirian said.
It also takes at least a month for him to receive his goods
compared with five days for overland transit because ships
travel around through the  Red Sea  to the Mediterranean.  Though good for shipping companies, the speed of the growth
at the Beirut port is posing problems for management, Kanaan
said. Last week, scores of trucks waited in line in the summer
heat to finish paperwork and left laden with imports including
foodstuffs, electrical parts and paper products.  Congestion is costly and delays are rampant, Kanaan said.
“Once that capacity is on line, it will solve the problem.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  