-- Natural Gas Futures Climb on Outlook for Late August Heat
-- B y   N a u r e e n   S .   M a l i k
-- 2013-08-27T19:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/u-s-natural-gas-declines-after-gaining-third-time-in-four-days.html
Natural gas futures gained for a
second day in New York on speculation that a wave of eastern
U.S. heat this week will spur fuel demand before turning cooler.  Gas rose 0.6 percent as forecasts showed unusually hot
weather will linger across the lower 48 states over the next
five days, according to MDA Weather Services in Gaithersburg,
 Maryland . September options expired today.  “We do still have some pretty strong cooling demand in the
Midwest today and in the coming days, so that is probably a
positive factor in the market,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst
and broker at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “We
will continue to flip around the $3.50 level. You saw a little
bit of options expiration squaring giving the market a bit of a
boost.”  Natural gas for September delivery increased 2.1 cents to
settle at $3.534 per million British thermal units on the  New
York Mercantile Exchange . Trading volume was 22 percent below
the 100-day average at 2:51 p.m. Gas Futures have climbed 5.5
percent this year.  The discount of September to October futures narrowed 0.1
cent to 3.9 cents. October gas traded 36.3 cents below the
January contract, compared with 36.7 cents yesterday.  October $3 puts were the most active options in electronic
trading. They were unchanged at 0.5 cent per million Btu on
volume of 1,374 at 3:17 p.m. Puts accounted for 47 percent of
trading volume. Implied volatility for October at-the-money
options was 31.77 percent at 3:15 p.m., compared with 31.82
percent yesterday.  Nuclear Plant  Entergy Corp. (ETR)  said today it plans to close its 41-year-old
 Vermont  Yankee nuclear plant in the fourth quarter of 2014
partly because a “transformational shift” in gas from shale
deposits has resulted in sustained low gas and wholesale power
prices. The company also cited “artificially low” power prices
and high costs associated for running the single unit.  The plant, about 5 miles south of Brattleboro, Vermont, has
a summer capacity of 604 megawatts and accounted for 4.1 percent
of New England’s  power output  in 2012, U.S. Energy Information
Administration data show.  If efficient combined-cycle gas plants made up for the loss
of Vermont Yankee, regional demand for the  fossil fuel  might
increase by almost 100 million cubic feet a day, or 10 percent,
said Teri Viswanath, director of commodities strategy at BNP
Paribas SA in  New York . New England power plants consumed about
1 billion cubic feet a day of gas last year, she said.  Power Imports  “The region will likely lean on imports to a heavier
degree and backfill the lost generation with natural gas,” she
said.  Gas at the Algonquin hub, which includes deliveries to
 Boston , for November 2014 through March 2015 gained 46.49 cents,
or 11 percent, to $4.53 per million Btu on the  Intercontinental
Exchange , said Kate Trischitta, director of trading at
Consolidated Edison Inc.’s wholesale energy unit in Valhalla,
New York. Intraday prices rose as high as $4.57.  “The market expectation is that the replacement power from
the unit will come from gas-fired generation, so there will be
an increase in gas usage,” she said.  The high temperature in  New York City  and Chicago on Sept.
4 may be 75 degrees Fahrenheit (24 Celsius), 4 below normal for
both cities,  AccuWeather Inc.  in  State College ,  Pennsylvania .
Power generation accounts for 32 percent of U.S. gas demand,
according to the EIA, the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  The Atlantic will probably be empty of storms for now,
after Tropical Depression Fernand dissipated in the mountains of
eastern  Mexico . Computer models don’t forecast any storms in the
basin for the next five days, said Anthony Chipriano, a
meteorologist with MDA.  Six tropical storms have formed in the Atlantic since the
season began on June 1. On average, the sixth storm usually
forms by Sept. 8 and the first hurricane by Aug. 10, according
to the National Hurricane Center in Miami.  Hurricane Season  If the Atlantic makes it to the end of month without a
hurricane, it will be the first August since 2002 in which that
has happened,  Jeff Masters , founder of  Weather Underground ,
wrote in his blog today.  The Gulf is home to about 6 percent of U.S. gas output, EIA
data show.  Gas inventories in the lower 48 states probably rose 65
billion cubic feet last week, based on the median of four
 analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. The five-year average
increase for the same seven days is 66 billion, according to the
EIA. Supplies expanded by 64 billion the same time year.  Stockpiles totaled 3.063 trillion cubic feet in the week
ended Aug. 16, 1.5 percent above the five-year average for the
period. Mild weather that reduced power demand helped erase a
 deficit  to the average of as much as 6.2 percent in April.  U.S. gas production in 2013 will climb for the sixth
consecutive year as new wells come online at shale reserves such
as the Marcellus in the Northeast, the government said in its
Aug. 6 Short-Term Energy Outlook. Marketed gas output will rise
1 percent to average a record 69.89 billion cubic feet a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naureen S. Malik in New York at 
 nmalik28@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  