-- U.S. Open Gates to Open Earlier After Long Lines for Tennis Fans
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2013-08-27T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/u-s-open-gates-to-open-earlier-after-long-lines-for-tennis-fans.html
Gates will open a half-hour earlier
today at the  U.S. Open  after enhanced security measures caused
long delays for some spectators on the opening day of the year’s
final Grand Slam tennis tournament.  Yesterday morning, one entry line stretched about a
quarter-mile (0.4 kilometers) along the boardwalk that separates
the National Tennis Center from Citi Field, home of  Major League
Baseball ’s  New York Mets , and the No. 7 line subway station.
There were no lines in the afternoon, or for the evening session.  The delays, as long as an hour for some fans, were
attributed to security measures that included 12 metal detectors
at the entry point that had long lines yesterday morning.  “It’s airport-type security, but we’re not asking you to
remove your belt and shoes,” said Chris Widmaier, a spokesman
for the U.S. Tennis Association that runs the tournament. “We
do have additional steps in place this year, and those steps
will remain in place for the entire tournament.”  Gates will open at 9:30 this morning, 90 minutes before the
start of play.  “There were long lines, longer than we were
anticipating,” Widmaier said. “We’ll have a much better
process in place tomorrow morning.”  Widmaier said in an interview that the USTA was examining
tighter security measures even before the bombings at April’s
Boston Marathon, which left three spectators dead.  “We reassess our security procedures each year and work
very closely with all law enforcement agencies on the local,
state and federal level when building our security plan for the
tournament,” Mike Rodriguez, the tournament’s security director,
said on the U.S. Open website. “We ask for the fans’ patience
and understanding as it relates to these new procedures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  