-- U.S. to Revive Loan Program That Backed Tesla, Fisker
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2013-08-27T22:08:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/u-s-to-revive-loan-program-that-backed-tesla-fisker.html
A U.S. alternative-vehicle loan
program criticized by Republican lawmakers for financing two
failed startups will resume marketing to industry groups and
possible applicants, an Energy Department spokeswoman said.  The $25 billion Advanced Technology Vehicle Manufacturing
loan program has about 60 percent of its funding remaining and
is open after making no loans since 2011, said Aoife McCarthy, a
spokeswoman for the agency that administers the program created
in 2008 by President  George W. Bush ’s administration.  “With no sunset date and more than $15 billion in
remaining authority, the program plans to conduct an active
outreach campaign to educate industry associations and potential
applicants about the substantial remaining funds available and
the application process in general,” she said today in an e-mail.  The program was criticized by Republican nominee  Mitt Romney  during the 2012 presidential election for assisting what
he called “losers.” Congress held a hearing in April to look
into the default of Fisker Automotive Inc., which drew $193
million from its $529 million loan before ceasing production
last year.  “At worst, the program threw good taxpayer money after
bad,” Representative  Darrell Issa , the California Republican
who heads the House Committee on Oversight and Government
Reform, said in a statement.  “At best, it has risked Americans’ hard-earned money on
projects that didn’t need it or didn’t truly advance vehicle
technology. The program simply didn’t have the results needed to
justify its revival.”  Public, Private  Demand for low-interest government loans today may not be
as high now as it was in 2009 when the auto program opened for
applications, said Alan Baum, an independent auto analyst at
Baum & Associates in West Bloomfield,  Michigan .  “I could see firms that are automotive suppliers that are
trying to broaden their position in this marketplace,” Baum
said in a telephone interview. The drawback is that private
financing is available and inexpensive, he said. “Is this money
better than money you can obtain on the private side?”  Applicants would have to be willing to be in the public eye
given the scrutiny by lawmakers and government watchdogs, he
said.  The Energy Department probably will seek recipients looking
for supplements to their capital rather than a main funding
source, Baum said.  Ford, Nissan  While backing Fisker and wheelchair vanmaker Vehicle
Production Group LLC, which defaulted on its $50 million loan in
May, the program also financed  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , which in May
repaid its $465 million loan in full nine years early. Tesla now
has a stock market value of more than $20 billion.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Nissan Motor Co. received the other two
loans and have been making payments. The Energy Department has
two other lending programs, including one that provided loan
guarantees to failed solar-panel maker Solyndra LLC. The
department also issued grants for electric-vehicle battery
development through a separate program.  “From Solyndra to Fisker, taxpayers have already paid too
much for President Obama’s risky green energy bets,” Senator
 John Thune , a South Dakota Republican, said in a statement.
“Now is not the time to revive defunct Department of Energy
loan programs that have already wasted hundreds of millions of
taxpayer dollars.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  