-- U.S. 2-Year Note Sale Lures Pension Funds, Insurance Companies
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2013-08-27T23:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/u-s-2-year-note-sale-lures-pension-funds-insurance-companies.html
The Treasury sold two-year notes at
a lower-than-forecast yield as direct bidders, a group that
includes pension funds and insurance companies, bought their
biggest share of the auction since April.  The $34 billion offering yesterday drew a yield of 0.386
percent, compared with a forecast of 0.390 percent in a
Bloomberg News survey of seven of the  Federal Reserve ’s 21
primary dealers. Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors
that place their bids directly with the Treasury, purchased 26.1
percent of the notes at the sale compared with an average of
23.8 percent at the previous 10 auctions. Treasury will sell $35
billion of five-year notes today and $29 billion of seven-year
debt tomorrow as concern turmoil in Syria may lead to wider
military action and the central bank maintains an almost-zero
target for short-term  interest rates .  “We are seeing a bid for safety as the backdrop from
what’s going on overseas plays out amid weaker equity markets
and a Fed that still has the front end of the curve well
anchored,” said  Sean Murphy , a trader at Societe Generale SA in
 New York , one of the primary dealers that are required to bid at
the auctions. “The uncertainty should bode well for the week’s
auctions.”  The  yield  on the current two-year note fell one basis
point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 0.356 at 5 p.m. in New York
yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
benchmark  10-year note  yielded 2.71x percent. The Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index of stocks fell 1.6 percent.  Fed Target  Two-year note yields have been restrained by Fed Chairman
Ben S. Bernanke assurance that the central bank will keep its
overnight lending rate at zero to 0.25 percent into 2015.  Treasuries extended their longest winning streak in six
weeks yesterday as the Obama administration is constructing the
legal and political justification for a limited military strike
on  Syria  that would demonstrate international censure against
chemical weapons.  At yesterday’s auction, the bid-to-cover ratio, which
gauges demand by comparing total bids with the amount of
securities offered, was 3.21, the most since April.  Indirect bidders purchased 19.3 percent of the notes,
compared with 30.4 percent at the July sale and an average of
25.5 percent at the past 10 offerings.  Primary dealers bought 54.6 percent of the notes, compared
with a 10-auction average of 50.7 percent.  Sector Interest  “Investors are still interested in the sector, considering
the geopolitical risk out there, and the economy, which is still
very fragile,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist
in New York at Jefferies LLC, a primary dealer. “The U.S.
response to Syria and the continued developments will continue
to drive the market for the time being, which is giving the
Treasury market some strength.”  Two-year notes have gained 0.03 percent this year through
Aug. 26, compared with a decline of 3.5 percent by Treasuries
overall, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes. The
two-year securities returned 0.3 percent in 2012, while
Treasuries overall rose 2.2 percent.  This week’s sales will raise $38.1 billion of new cash, as
maturing securities held by the public total $59.9 billion,
according to the  U.S. Treasury .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  