-- Hungary Cuts Benchmark Interest Rate More Than Forecast
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-08-27T14:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/hungary-cuts-benchmark-interest-rate-more-than-forecast.html
Hungary ’s central bank cut interest
rates more than economists forecast as policy makers took
advantage of the resilience of local assets before the U.S.
Federal Reserve scales back bond buying. The forint weakened.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank lowered the two-week deposit rate
to a record-low 3.8 percent from 4 percent after 12 months of
quarter-point cuts. Sixteen of 22 economists in a Bloomberg
survey forecast a reduction to 3.9 percent, while none forecast
a cut of 20 basis points.  Policy makers are fine-tuning monetary policy with rates at
a record low, seeking to fortify a recovery from last year’s
recession while safeguarding financial stability and the
attractiveness of local assets as the Fed considers when to
start paring stimulus. Hungary’s growth and inflation outlook
justify further monetary easing while global risks warrant
policy caution, rate-setters said in today’s statement.  “It’s a big question at what pace the rate-cut cycle will
continue, but probably we’ll see similar rate cuts in the coming
months,” Gergely Gabler, an economist at Equilor Befektetesi
Zrt., said by e-mail. The brokerage lowered its year-end
forecast for the benchmark to 3 percent from 3.5 percent.  The forint depreciated 0.9 percent against the euro to
301.34 by 3:35 p.m. in Budapest, the weakest in four months on a
closing basis. The yield on the 10-year government bond rose 6
basis point to 6.52 percent.  Slower Cuts  After 3.2 percentage points of rate cuts over the last 13
months and “taking into account developments in perceptions of
the risks associated with the Hungarian economy, a slower pace
of policy easing is warranted,” the rate-setting Monetary
Council said today. Bank President Gyorgy Matolcsy said last
month that policy makers may switch to cuts in increments of 10
basis points, or 0.1 percentage-point.  The rate may fall to between 3 percent and 3.5 percent,
Matolcsy said July 23. Forward-rate agreements indicate that
investors expect the benchmark rate to drop to 3.75 percent in
the next three months before policy makers raise them back to
the current 4 percent level in nine months.  “The slowing of the pace of easing stems from the Monetary
Council’s desire to loosen monetary policy without causing a
sell-off in the forint,” William Jackson, an economist at
Capital Economics in  London , said today in an e-mailed note.  Eastern Europe  Emerging-market stocks have lost more than $1 trillion
since May, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, when Fed
Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the Fed “could take a step down”
in its $85 billion monthly bond purchases.  Central bankers across eastern Europe are testing the
limits of policy easing as funds flow out of  emerging markets .
The Polish central bank ended a nine-month cycle of interest-rate cuts in July, with the benchmark at a record-low 2.5
percent.  Romania  this month unexpectedly accelerated easing with
a half-point cut to 4.50 percent, also a record low.  Czech central bankers are debating whether to start koruna
sales for the first time in more than a decade after three cuts
last year brought interest rates near zero. Russia left its main
lending rates unchanged this month while signaling increased
concern about slowing economic growth.  Risk Level  Matolcsy has pointed to subdued growth and record-low
inflation as justification for continued rate cuts, while
emphasizing that policy makers monitor financial stability risks
in their decisions.  Gross domestic product grew a preliminary 0.1 percent from
the previous three months in the second quarter, the statistics
office said Aug. 14. The inflation rate was 1.8 percent in July,
near a 39-year low, remaining below the central bank’s 3 percent
medium-term target for a sixth month.  “There is no significant inflationary pressure in the
Hungarian economy and risks to inflation could remain moderate
over the medium term,” the central bank said. “In the current
environment, monetary policy can contribute to meeting the
inflation target over the medium term by maintaining
accommodative monetary conditions.”  Hungary’s monetary-policy room may narrow as investors bet
the Fed will taper its bond purchases, which “doesn’t really
provide a supportive environment for further significant
interest-rate cuts, Orsolya Nyeste, an economist at Erste Group
Bank AG in Budapest, said by e-mail.  ‘‘The room for further rate cuts is getting narrower,’’ she
said. ‘‘What’s clear is that the Council wants to ease monetary
policy as much as possible, in however small increments.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  