-- United Azeri Opposition Candidate Barred From Presidential Vote
-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 2013-08-27T15:00:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/united-azeri-opposition-candidate-barred-from-presidential-vote.html
Azerbaijan ’s only presidential
candidate from the unified opposition, Rustam Ibrahimbayov, was
disqualifed from the October election because he holds dual
citizenship.  Ibrahimbayov, 74, didn’t relinquish his Russian citizenship
in time to be eligible, Azar Sariyev, a spokesman for the
Central Electoral Commission, said by e-mail today.  An Oscar-winning screenwriter, Ibrahimbayov accused Russian
President  Vladimir Putin  of backing incumbent leader  Ilham
Aliyev  after the Russian government failed to act promptly to
revoke his citizenship. He sought to challenge Aliyev on behalf
of the National Council of Democratic Forces, an alliance of
Azerbaijan’s secular opposition parties and groups.  Putin paid a visit to Baku, the Caspian Sea nation’s
capital, on Aug. 13, during which state-run OAO Rosneft, the
world’s biggest publicly traded oil producer, agreed to create a
joint venture to explore and produce natural gas with the State
Oil Co. of Azerbaijan. They also agreed to cooperate in oil and
refined-product sales and use of infrastructure such as
pipelines and terminals.  Aliyev, who succeeded his father in disputed presidential
elections 10 years ago, was nominated by the ruling New
Azerbaijan Party, or YAP, last month to compete for a third term
in office. The Azeri leader’s family has run the oil-rich
 Caspian Sea  state for more than four decades.  The united opposition last week nominated historian Camil
Hasanli as a back-up candidate to avoid the prospect of being
barred from the race. The election is slated for Oct. 9.  Ibrahimbayov, also known as Ibragimbekov in the Russian
transliteration of his name, and Nikita Mikhalkov wrote the 1994
film “Burnt by the Sun,” which won an Oscar for best foreign
language movie.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  