-- Muriel Siebert Loved Fast Cars, Monster Girl, Friends Say
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2013-08-27T20:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/muriel-siebert-loved-fast-cars-monster-girl-friends-say.html
Muriel Siebert’s favorite songs
suffused her funeral this morning with a feistiness that none of
those gathered at Central Synagogue in midtown  Manhattan  would
have found surprising.  They were completely in character. The first woman to hold
a seat on the  New York  Stock Exchange, Siebert was devoted to
her dog, Monster Girl. Her drink was vodka. And she drove fast.  Cantor Angela Warnick Buchdahl crooned  Frank Sinatra ’s “My
Way.”  From the front pews, members of the Women’s Forum, which
Siebert co-founded as “old boys’ network for girls,” sang
lyrics set to the tune of “One” from “A Chorus Line,”
written for a Forum meeting decades ago:  “We are positive believers in the power of dames/Our lives
are joyous and jolly, for we’re on top/Although our men may
annoy us, we will never stop.”  Siebert embodied those words right up until her death on
Saturday at 84, judging by the stories told by participants in
the service.  “She didn’t break the rules, she re-wrote the rules and
made them fair,” Representative  Carolyn Maloney  said.  Serenading Guests  David Roosevelt, grandson of Franklin and  Eleanor Roosevelt , called Siebert a “tough old bird” while noting her
warmth and generosity. At a party when she was 80 years old, he
recalled, she sat down next to the pianist and serenaded the 150
guests for more than an hour.  Former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker  described
Siebert as “a strong -- emphasis added -- superintendent of
banking” for New York State in remarks that were read from the
pulpit.  During her tenure in that job, from 1977 to 1982, Siebert
liked to call herself “the S.O.B.,” Maloney said, adding that
Siebert was an insightful adviser during the Dodd-Frank
financial reform debates.  Jeanette Wagner, a friend, recalled joining Siebert to help
elect Barbara Franklin as the first chairwoman of the  Economic
Club of New York . Afterward, they decided to form the “KBC”
club -- standing for the “Kick Butt Club.”  Lobster Liberator  Jane Macon, a partner at Fulbright & Jaworski, said she and
Siebert were once in the south of  France  about to cook lobsters
who clearly did not want to be eaten. Siebert, admiring their
fighting spirit, refused to kill them.  “Cancer was the only fight she couldn’t win,” said Rabbi
Peter J. Rubenstein, who noted that she joined Central Synagogue
in 1978. The rabbi joked that he and Roosevelt were part of the
service “for gender inclusiveness.”  Other male attendees included Bill Rudin, president of
Rudin Management Co., who said his father, Lewis Rudin, was a
good friend of Siebert’s, and Andrew Tisch, co-chairman of  Loews
Corp. (L)   Siebert founded a financial literacy program; other
community affiliations included the Friars Club, the Boy Scouts
of America, and the Animal Rescue Fund.  Recalling her road skills, Nancy Peterson Hearn, chairman
of Peterson Tool Co. Inc. said, “We were driving out to the
Hamptons and let’s just say Muriel had a lead foot. She told me
to watch out for the speed patrols, because if she got another
ticket she’d lose her license for a time. The next year she had
a driver.”  On the synagogue steps after the service, Sharon Gamsin,
who ran the New York Stock Exchange press office, recalled
playing the role of Siebert at the Financial Follies, an annual
gathering of financial journalists. Gamsin dressed as the Statue
of Liberty and put on a blonde wig to sing “You Got to Know How
to Borrow” to the tune of “Tomorrow,” from “Annie.”  “She came up to me and said I did a good job,” Gamsin
said.  Siebert will be placed tomorrow in her family’s mausoleum
in  Cleveland .  Muse highlights include  Laurie Muchnick  on books and
 Manuela Hoelterhoff  on music.  To contact the writer on this story:
 Amanda Gordon  in New York at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 