-- Murray Says Market Reaction to Fed Comments Exaggerated
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-08-27T18:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/murray-says-market-reaction-to-fed-comments-exaggerated.html
Bank of Canada  Deputy Governor  John Murray  said investor reaction to comments about tapering of
monetary stimulus by the U.S. Federal Reserve may have been
overdone because there are signs the process will be smooth.  “The pronouncements appeared to trigger an exaggerated
reaction in financial markets,” Murray, 64, said in a speech
today in Kingston, Ontario. “A number of factors are working in
favor of a smoother transition,” he said.  The Fed’s debate over when to slow $85 billion in monthly
bond buying has roiled financial markets from Jakarta to  Mumbai 
to  New York . Some policy makers have said the purchases, while
helping reduce unemployment, are stoking excessive risk taking
in assets such as  junk bonds  and leveraged loans.  The market reaction is surprising because the Fed is
discussing a slowing of the pace of stimulus instead of a rapid
tightening and surveys show investors had already anticipated
such a move would happen later this year, Murray said.  The reaction to the prospect of Fed tapering and higher
interest rates may have been reflected in  Canada  as foreign
investors sold a record C$19 billion ($18.1 billion) of bonds in
June, an Aug. 16 Statistics Canada report showed.  Central bank leaders may be able to curb the negative
consequences of exiting from extraordinary stimulus by linking
the pace to clear signs of economic recoveries, Murray said.  Policy makers can tailor the pace of their actions to local
circumstances, and have learned lessons about the importance of
clear communication on how they will scale back stimulus, Murray
said.  Not Publishing  The Bank of Canada isn’t planning to add to its
communications by publishing a forecast for its  policy interest
rate , Murray said.  “You can see the logic, but I think under normal
circumstances, there is a debate in the community about whether
it comes with some costs,” he said. A central bank forecast can
create “a false sense of commitment” to investors about plans
that are “conditional, iffy,” he said.  Canada has benefited from Fed stimulus that boosted demand
for exports, Murray said, and the lasting rebound that’s coming
will more than offset the drag of higher  interest rates  as the
U.S. central bank withdraws stimulus.  “Stronger external demand, coupled with downward pressure
on our currency and support for commodity prices from a global
economic recovery, will provide the lift,” Murray said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Quinn in Kingston, Ontario at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  