-- UTV Media Falls as Earnings Forecast Disappoints: London Mover
-- B y   R a c h e l   S a v a g e
-- 2013-08-27T15:58:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/utv-media-falls-as-earnings-forecast-disappoints-london-mover.html
UTV Media Plc (UTV) , the owner of U.K.
Premier League soccer radio broadcaster Talksport, fell the most
in two months after forecasting full-year pretax profit that
would be less than estimated by some analysts.  Pretax profit will probably be 18 million pounds ($28
million) on revenue of 117 million pounds, Finance Director
Norman McKeown said in a phone interview after the company
reported that earnings on that basis declined 43 percent in the
first half. Analysts at Peel Hunt and  Goodbody Stockbrokers  had
estimated 19 million pounds and 19.3 million pounds,
respectively.  “The first six months of the year has been very
challenging,” McKeown said in the interview. “With the World
Cup year and the benefits that would bring to Talksport in
particular, we should see increased revenue and profit growth.”  The shares  dropped  4 percent to 167 pence at the close of
trading in London, the most since June and the biggest decline
on the FTSE All-Share Media Index. That pared  Belfast , Northern
Ireland-based UTV’s gain this year to 37 percent, or fifth best
on the 22-company index. The stock had risen 7.9 percent on Aug.
23, the previous trading day, to the highest price since 2008.  Although third-quarter trends “look to be improving, this
coupled with investment costs in radio will be insufficient to
enable the company to meet our forecasts for the year,” Patrick Yau, an analyst at Peel Hunt, wrote in a note today. Yau cut his
recommendation to sell from hold and lowered his 2013 pretax
profit estimate to 18 million pounds.  Analysts at Goodbody, Shore and Numis reiterated advice to
buy the shares, citing the expected benefit of the 2014  World
Cup .  Record Audience  There are “clear signs of return to revenue growth in all
our business units,” UTV said today in a statement. Talksport’s
audience rose to a record and the station extended an agreement
to offer Premier League matches across  Europe . First-half pretax
profit fell to 6.1 million pounds while revenue declined 10
percent to 55.2 million pounds.  “UTV saw its business impacted more negatively than we
would have thought by the weaker advertising backdrop” toward
the end of the first half, Gavin Kelleher, an analyst at
Goodbody, said today in a note.  Recent growth in advertising revenue, as well as
anticipated earnings from the World Cup and Talksport
International should “underpin double-digit year-over-year
profit growth” next year, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Savage in  London  at 
 rsavage10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Risser at 
 drisser@bloomberg.net  