-- Wal-Mart to Include Same-Sex Partners in Company Benefits
-- B y   R e n e e   D u d l e y   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2013-08-27T20:19:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/wal-mart-to-include-domestic-partners-in-company-benefits.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  will now allow
workers’ same-sex partners to participate in its company health
benefits, bringing policies at the largest private employer in
the U.S. in line with most of the nation’s top businesses.  Full-time associates’ spouses and domestic partners will be
eligible for coverage in medical, dental, vision, life, critical
illness and accident plans, the Bentonville, Arkansas-based
company said in a postcard to employees this week that was
provided to Bloomberg.  Wal-Mart, a frequent target of labor-rights groups pushing
for better pay and benefits, said it made the change to have a
consistent policy for all 50 states as some alter their
definitions of marriage. Among Fortune 500 companies, 62 percent
offer health-care benefits to same-sex partners, up from 34
percent in 2002, according to the Human Rights Campaign.  “Wal-Mart, as America’s largest employer, has sent a
cultural signal that equality for LGBT people is the simplest of
mainstream values and we look forward to continuing to work with
them,” Chad Griffin, president of the Washington-based group,
said today in an e-mailed statement, referring to lesbian, gay,
bisexual and transgender people. Griffin said he worked at Wal-Mart as a teenager and was “moved” by the decision.  Wal-Mart has 1.3 million full- and part-time U.S.
employees, he said. More than half participate in health-care
plans. A total of 1.1 million employees and family members are
covered by the plans, he said.  Domestic Partners  The retailer’s definition of domestic partners includes
same- or opposite-sex spouses, unmarried partners who live
together for at least 12 months, aren’t married to anyone else
and plan to continue sharing a household indefinitely, Hargrove
said.  “We thought it was important to develop a single
definition for all Wal-Mart associates in the U.S. to give them
consistency in the various markets we operate in across the
country,” Randy Hargrove, a Wal-Mart spokesman, said in
telephone interview.  Wal-Mart fell 0.2 percent to $72.86 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have risen 6.8 percent this year, compared with
a 14 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  In June, the U.S. Supreme Court struck down the 1996
Defense of Marriage Act that denied federal benefits to same-sex
couples legally married in states that allowed it. The court
also reinstated a federal judge’s order allowing gay marriages
in  California .  13 States  Thirteen states and the District of Columbia allow gay
marriage. A judge in New Jersey said Aug. 15 that she’ll rule
soon about whether same-sex couples in the state can marry. Just
today, New Mexico gay couples won a court ruling ordering county
clerks in  Albuquerque  and Santa Fe to issue marriage licenses in
a lawsuit brought by same-sex couples who had previously been
turned away.  Wal-Mart’s decision to expand eligibility for benefits
comes the week after  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  said it would
drop health insurance coverage for about 15,000 working spouses
of white-collar employees to curtail rising costs. Many spouses
in the U.S. workforce will have access to employer-provided
insurance under President  Barack Obama ’s health-care system
overhaul, and UPS will remove them from its coverage. Spouses
who lack such benefits or don’t work still will be eligible at
Atlanta-based UPS, according to the memo.  While the change at Wal-Mart might cause some “ruffled
feathers,” among conservative shoppers, it isn’t likely to
cause a significant decline in traffic, said Brian Yarbrough, an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in St. Louis.  “We’re in 2013, same sex marriage is an accepted thing,”
Yarbrough said. “Why not offer benefits?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Renee Dudley in New York at 
 rdudley6@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at 
 korland@bloomberg.net  