-- Washington Drivers Ranked Most Accident-Prone
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-08-27T04:05:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/washington-drivers-ranked-most-accident-prone.html
Drivers in Washington are the most
accident-prone of any U.S. city, again placing at the bottom of
an annual ranking by Allstate Corp.  Motorists in the nation’s capital get in a collision every
4.8 years, more than double the national average, the
Northbrook, Illinois-based insurer said today in a report. It’s
the sixth straight year the city has held the designation.  Allstate, the largest publicly traded U.S. auto and home
insurer, publishes the annual analysis of its claims data to
highlight safe-driving practices. More-congested streets are
part of the reason Washington and other urban areas in the East
fare worse than places in the West and South, said Kate Hollcraft, a spokeswoman for the insurer.  “The cities that are along the East Coast are a little
more compact,” she said in a phone interview. “They’re
older.”  Baltimore had the second-worst result, with drivers
crashing every 5.4 years, followed by Providence,  Rhode Island .
 New York  motorists get in a collision every 7.3 years, the 23rd
worst of almost 200 cities studied. Boston wasn’t included in
the ranking because Allstate has limited data for the study
period, which ran from January 2010 to December 2011.  Phoenix was the top-ranked city with a population of more
than 1 million. Drivers there get in an accident every 9.8
years, Allstate said. Motorists in  Fort Collins ,  Colorado , led
the ranking with an average of 13.9 years between collisions.  The national rate of auto accidents has been declining for
most of the past two decades as carmakers improve safety
features, U.S. Department of Transportation  data  show. Allstate,
which sells about  10 percent  of all auto policies in the U.S.,
offered driving tips such as listening to traffic reports to
avoid congested areas and keeping a safe distance from other
vehicles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  