-- Weaker Rand Should Help South Africa Compete, Gordhan Says
-- B y   R e n e   V o l l g r a a f f
-- 2013-08-27T17:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/weaker-rand-should-help-south-africa-compete-gordhan-says.html
The rand, which has slumped 19
percent against the dollar this year, should increase South
Africa’s export competitiveness, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
said.  “Some say they are in a better position to export now than
they used to be and they have got better order books than
before,” Gordhan said in an interview at a mining conference in
Johannesburg. “Some are taking advantage of the weaker rand,
from what I hear.”  The weaker currency, the worst performer this year among 16
major currencies tracked by Bloomberg, has increased price
pressures in Africa’s largest economy, where  inflation  broke
through the Reserve Bank’s 3 percent to 6 percent target band in
July for the first time in 15 months. It traded at 10.3959 as of
6:50 p.m. today.  Fuel prices keep going up if the rand depreciates, Gordhan
said. “So how you keep the balance is part of the difficult
task that we have,” he said.  The  Reserve Bank  has had to find a balance between
increasing inflation and sluggish growth and has kept the
benchmark repurchase rate at 5 percent for more than a year.
Violent strikes in the  mining industry  limited growth in
Africa’s largest economy to 2.5 percent last year.  While  gross domestic product  expanded an annualized 3
percent in the second quarter, according to data published
earlier today by the statistics office, the Reserve Bank expects
the economy to grow by 2 percent in 2013 in the face of weak
business and  consumer confidence  and sluggish global demand.  Possible disruptions from  strike action  as part of current
wage negotiations in various industries pose additional risks to
growth, Reserve Bank Deputy Governor  Daniel Mminele  said on on
Aug. 12.  “Strikes are not the end of the world,” Gordhan said
today. “Every part of the world has strikes. I do not think we
should overplay it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rene Vollgraaff in Johannesburg at 
 rvollgraaff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  