-- Weinstein’s ‘Butler’ Tops Box Office for Second Weekend
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-08-27T03:41:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/weinstein-s-butler-tops-box-office-for-second-weekend.html
“Lee Daniels’ The Butler” took in
$16.5 million in U.S. and Canadian theaters, leading the box
office a second weekend in the absence of a big-budget release.  “The Mortal Instruments: City of Bones,” a fantasy teen
movie, had sales of $9.3 million in its debut to place third for
 Sony Corp. (6758) ’s Screen Gems unit, researcher  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said yesterday in a statement.  “The Butler,” starring Forest Whitaker and  Oprah Winfrey ,
has generated $51.8 million in domestic ticket sales since its
release on Aug. 16, helped by favorable reviews of Whitaker’s
performance as Cecil Gaines, based on the real-life White House
servant Eugene Allen, and for Winfrey, who plays his wife. The
movie’s $24.6 million debut marked the biggest opening weekend
for distributor Weinstein Co. since “Django Unchained” in
December.  “The Butler” is “benefiting from a lack of competition
because the big summer movies pretty much are played out, so now
the calendar is wide open for some more niche titles to try and
find an audience,”  Paul Sweeney , an analyst with Bloomberg
Industries, said in a telephone interview. “I think it’ll play
well for the next couple of weeks.”  The movie cost about $30 million to produce, according to
researcher Box Office Mojo. It recounts the story of Allen, who
served presidents from Eisenhower to Reagan and whose life is
used to frame turning points in American history, including the
civil rights movement.  ‘Mortal Instruments’  “We’re the Millers,” starring  Jason Sudeikis  and  Jennifer Aniston , collected $13 million to place second in its third
week. The comedy, made for $37 million, has become a hit for
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. with a $91.3 million total at
the domestic box office.  “The Mortal Instruments,” released by Sony Corp. in the
U.S., was made for $60 million and was projected to take in
$10.5 million by Boxoffice.com. Based on the Cassandra Clare
novels, it stars Lily Collins as a teenager who discovers she is
part of a secret order of half-angel warriors locked in an
ancient battle to protect the world from demons.  “The Mortal Instruments” is “excessively busy and
occasionally cheesy,” wrote  New York  Times critic Jeannette
Catsoulis. “The bustling plot sacrifices clarity for density,
and emotional resonance for flirty one-liners.”  “The World’s End,” from  Universal Pictures ’s Focus
Features unit, came in fourth in its debut with $8.8 million in
receipts. What begins as a sentimental pub crawl for five
middle-age mates from the British suburbs turns into a sci-fi
comedy featuring outer-space body-snatchers.  ‘You’re Next’  The British movie, starring  Simon Pegg  and  Nick Frost  and
directed by Edgar Wright, is the third installment from the
trio, after 2004’s zombie comedy “Shaun of the Dead” and
2007’s action caper “Hot Fuzz.”  Made for $20 million, “The World’s End” was projected to
generate $8.5 million by Boxoffice.com.  “You’re Next,” a horror flick from  Lions Gate
Entertainment Corp. (LGF)  and the weekend’s third new release,
collected $6.9 million in sixth place. The picture, about a
group of masked murderers who invade a family reunion wielding
axes, was projected to take $9 million by Boxoffice.com.  Weekend revenue for the top 12 films rose 8.7 percent to
$90 million from the year-earlier period, Hollywood.com said.
Attendance year to date is down 2.7 percent, while revenue has
risen less than 1 percent.  The following table has U.S. movie box-office figures
provided by studios to Hollywood.com Box-Office. The amounts are
based on gross ticket sales on Aug. 23-25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Livesey in  San Francisco  at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at   kmiller@bloomberg.net  