-- Woolworths Net Jumps 24% With More Customers Than Population
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2013-08-28T08:15:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/woolworths-profit-matches-estimates-as-new-stores-boost-sales.html
Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s largest
retailer, increased profit at the fastest pace in five years as
as it opened on average one grocery store every five days and
served more customers than the country’s population.  Net income  rose 24 percent to A$2.26 billion ($2 billion)
in the year ended June, Sydney-based Woolworths  said  today,
matching the average of six  analysts’ estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the company’s fastest profit growth since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Woolworths sold its money-losing Dick Smith electrical
chain, opened 73 grocery, liquor and gasoline outlets, and
doubled its network of Masters hardware stores in the year to
reignite growth that spurred a tripling of its market value in
the last decade. Net income climbed more than  10 percent
annually  for 11 years before the pace slowed to 5.1 percent in
2011 and profit fell last year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “It’s a good result on all the key criteria,”  Jeremy
Hook , investment director in Sydney at TMS Capital Pty which
manages about A$250 million, said by phone. “We may be looking
to add to some of our positions on the back of this.”  Shares of Woolworths rose 2 percent to close at A$34.59 in
Sydney, their highest level since May 16. The stock extended its
gain this year to 18 percent, while the S&P/ASX 200 index has
advanced 9.4 percent.  Woolworths supermarkets and the second-ranked Coles chain
owned by Wesfarmers Ltd. have cut prices of bread and milk to
A$1 in recent years in a price war for a grocery market where
they have a combined 80 percent share.  Price Squeeze  That’s squeezed milk and food producers including HJ Heinz
Co. and  Campbell Soup Co. (CPB)  Average prices in Woolworths’ grocery
unit fell 2.9 percent over the past year, the company said.  “Competition is alive and well, and that’s evidenced by
the fact that consumers have got a cheaper basket this year,”
Chief Executive Officer Grant O’Brien told a media call after
the results. “We had record numbers of customers coming into
our stores and that’s evidence that customers are pleased with
what they’re getting.”  Average weekly customer numbers, a measure of how many
transactions are rung up in the company’s stores, rose 3.6
percent to 28.4 million, about 22 percent larger than
Australia’s population of  23 million .  The typical customer visited the store 2.3 times each week,
a number that was increasing, Tjeerd Jegen, director of the
company’s supermarkets division, said on the call.  Supermarket Earnings  Earnings before interest and tax at Woolworths’ Australian
food and liquor stores rose 8.7 percent to A$3.06 billion, the
company said. At New Zealand supermarkets, the measure increased
5.2 percent to A$236 million.  The Australian result trailed the 13 percent Ebit growth
rate that  Wesfarmers (WES)  reported for Coles. Net income at
Wesfarmers rose 6.4 percent to A$2.26 billion in the year to
June, the company said Aug. 15. Sales from Coles stores open at
least 12 months have grown faster than the equivalent at
Woolworths outlets for at least 14 straight quarters, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  “The supermarket operations will continue to improve” at
Woolworths, Michael Simotas, an analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in
Sydney, wrote in a note to clients July 30. A weaker Australian
dollar will lift the cost of imports and start raising grocery
prices, he said.  Ebit from Woolworths’ Big W discount department store rose
7.2 percent to A$191 million. Its hotels unit,  Australia ’s
biggest operator of pubs, increased earnings 35 percent to A$264
million.  Excluding one-time items, net income climbed 6.1 percent
during the most recent 12-month period, compared with a  range of
5 percent to 6 percent  the company forecast July 18. That
measure will increase in a range of 4 percent to 7 percent in
the current year, Woolworths said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  