-- Brent Rises to Five-Month High on Syria Clash, Libya Loss
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-08-27T12:00:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/wti-gains-as-syria-unrest-fans-concern-of-middle-east-disruption.html
Brent crude  rose to its highest
level in six months after the U.S. said it will hold Syria’s
government accountable for the use of chemical weapons, while
Libya’s production slumped amid protests.  Futures climbed as much as 1.7 percent in London. The
evidence is “undeniable” that Bashar al-Assad’s government
used toxic weapons against residents of a Damascus suburb, U.S.
Secretary of State  John Kerry  said. Libya’s National Oil Corp.
said output may have dropped below 200,000 barrels a day, the
lowest since the 2011 uprising against  Muammar Qaddafi .  “Geopolitical turmoil and supply risks” are supporting
prices, said  Eugen Weinberg , head of commodities research at
Commerzbank AG in Frankfurt. “The situation in the  Middle East 
seems to be escalating, especially as the prospect of military
action by the West in Syria has increased.”  Brent for October settlement jumped as much as $1.87 to
$112.60 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange, the highest
since Feb. 28, and was at $112.51 as of 12:59 p.m. London time.
The volume of all futures traded was about 25 percent above the
100-day average. The European benchmark crude was at a premium
of $4.50 to West Texas Intermediate, compared with $4.81
yesterday.  WTI for October delivery climbed as much as $2.22 to
$108.14 in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The contract dropped 50 cents to $105.92 yesterday.
Prices have gained 18 percent this year.  ‘Indiscriminate Slaughter’  President  Barack Obama  will hold the Syrian government
accountable for the “indiscriminate slaughter” of its own
people with chemical weapons last week, Kerry said yesterday.
Obama hasn’t decided whether the U.S. will take military action
in Syria, according to an administration official who asked for
anonymity to discuss internal deliberations.  U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday that
Britain is convinced Assad was behind the Aug. 21 attack in
Ghouta, outside Damascus, and that there was agreement with the
U.S. and  France  on the need to respond. The U.K. government
plans to decide today whether to recall Parliament and seek
approval for taking action, said a person familiar with the
discussions who asked not to be identified.  The Middle East accounted for 35 percent of global oil
output in the first quarter of this year, according to data from
the  International Energy Agency .  Elephant Halt  Libya’s El Feel, or elephant, oil field was halted by
protesters last night, National Oil Corp. Chairman Nuri Berruien
said today in an interview in Tripoli. The North African
nation’s export capability has been crippled since members of
the Petroleum Facilities Guard seized control of terminals last
month to press for better working conditions.  Crude inventories  in the U.S., the world’s largest oil
consumer, probably rose by 700,000 barrels last week, the first
increase in four weeks, according to the median estimate of nine
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The Energy Information
Administration, the Energy Department’s statistical unit, is
scheduled to release its weekly report tomorrow.  Refiners are expected to have cut average operating rates
by 0.2 percentage point, the survey showed. Gasoline stockpiles
fell by 1.25 million barrels in the week ended Aug. 23,
according to the survey.  Distillate supplies , including heating
oil and diesel, are expected to have gained by 500,000 barrels.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  