-- Dollar Up Most in Week as Syria Tensions Drive Flight to Safety
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2013-08-28T21:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/yen-holds-biggest-gains-in-2-1-2-months-as-syria-tension-mounts.html
The dollar rose the most in a week
as the prospect of U.S. military action against Syria deterred
risk-taking and prompted investors to buy the safest assets.  The Australian dollar fell against most of its 16 major
peers and  India ’s rupee and  Turkey ’s lira dropped to record lows
as the prospect of an expanded Middle East conflict damped
demand for emerging-market currencies. U.S. Treasury 10-year
note yields climbed from the lowest level in almost two weeks
before a government report tomorrow forecast to show the economy
grew more last quarter than earlier estimated.  “Because of geopolitical risk,  market sentiment  was pretty
bad, but this type of risk is not so important on a longer-term
horizon,” said Yoshitsugu Fujita, an assistant vice president
of global markets in New York at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Ltd.
Rises in Treasuries yields have contributed to strength in the
U.S. dollar, he said.  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the greenback
against 10 major peers, advanced 0.4 percent to 1,028.68 at 5
p.m. in New York. It earlier advanced 0.5 percent, the biggest
intraday increase since Aug. 21.  The greenback strengthened 0.6 percent to 97.64 yen, its
first gain in three days. It rose 0.4 percent to $1.3339 per
euro.  Japan ’s currency declined 0.2 percent to 130.25 per euro.  Benchmark  10-year yields  climbed six basis points to 2.77
percent after falling to 2.70 percent, the lowest since Aug. 15.  Record Lows  Turkey’s lira sank to a record on concern Turkey will be
hurt by a military action against its neighbor  Syria . Some 4,000
Syrians have sought refuge in Turkey in the past five days on
fears of a chemical attack, state-run TRT television said.  The lira fell 0.1 percent to 2.0386 per dollar after
depreciating to 2.0730, a record according to data compiled by
Bloomberg since 1981. India’s rupee fell as much as 4 percent to
68.845 against the U.S. currency. The Aussie slumped 0.5 percent
to 89.41 U.S. cents, and touched 88.93 earlier, the weakest
level since Aug. 5.  “The broader theme is reduced risk appetite -- you can see
that in emerging-market currencies and the Aussie,” Robert Sinche, global strategist at Pierpont Securities Holdings LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. Strength
in the  U.S. dollar  is “related to U.S. interest rates coming
back a little bit.”  JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Global FX Volatility Index climbed
to 10.43 after reaching 10.51, the highest since July 16.  Carney Speech  Sterling reversed a decline versus the euro after  Bank of
England  Governor Carney said forward guidance will help the
economic recovery in his first policy speech since taking over
on July 1. He also said the BOE is focused on sustaining the
economic recovery despite the “inevitable shocks ahead.”  The central bank’s Monetary Policy Committee meets on Sept.
5, the same day as the  European Central Bank . It has introduced
the guidance to prevent a pickup in borrowing costs from
undermining the economic recovery.  The pound rose 0.3 percent to 85.91 pence per euro after
falling 0.4 percent to 86.52 pence, the weakest since Aug. 7. It
dropped 0.1 percent to $1.5526.  Sterling gained 2.1 percent against the greenback this
month, the best performance among the major currencies, while
the  Mexican peso  had the biggest loss, at 4.4 percent. The euro
and yen gained 0.3 percent and 0.2 percent.  ‘Risk Aversion’  The dollar advanced today as the U.S. and the U.K. said
they are prepared to take military action against Syria without
authorization from the  United Nations Security Council  after
Russia objected to a resolution offered by the U.K. authorizing
action to protect civilians.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s government has denied
the employment of chemical weapons.  “Investors have suddenly ramped up their  risk aversion  to
a very high degree,” Steven Englander, head of Group of 10
currency strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a radio
interview with  Tom Keene  on  Bloomberg Surveillance . “We favor
the U.S., but what the market is looking for is low beta
economics, low beta markets.” Beta is a measure of volatility.  Revised figures from the Commerce Department tomorrow will
show U.S. gross domestic product grew at a 2.2 percent
annualized rate in the second quarter, a Bloomberg survey
showed, faster than the initial reading of 1.7 percent.  Federal Reserve policy makers are debating whether the  U.S.
economy  is strong enough to allow them to pare back monthly
purchases of $85 billion in Treasuries and mortgage debt.
Officials will reduce the amount at their next meeting on Sept.
17-18, according to 65 percent of economists in an Aug. 9-13
Bloomberg survey.  Options Trading  Trading in over-the-counter foreign-exchange options
totaled $25 billion, from $23 billion yesterday, according to
data reported by U.S. banks to the Depository Trust Clearing
Corp. and tracked by Bloomberg. Volume in options on the euro-dollar  exchange rate  amounted to $6.5 billion, the largest share
of trades at 26 percent. Options on the dollar-yen rate totaled
$3 billion, or 12 percent.  Euro-dollar options trading was 179 percent more than the
average for the past five Wednesdays at a similar time in the
day, and greenback-yen trading was 40 percent less, according to
Bloomberg analysis.  Dollar-Hong Kong dollar options trading, at $1.6 billion,
was 425 percent above average.  The dollar strengthened 5.1 percent this year, according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes that track 10 developed-market currencies. The euro is the best performer, rising 6.4
percent, while the yen slumped 7.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in  New York  at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  