-- Hyundai to Hynix Top Asia Buying as HSBC Bullish: Korea Markets
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h o   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2013-08-27T15:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-08-27/hyundai-to-hynix-top-asia-buying-as-hsbc-bullish-korea-markets.html
South Korean stocks have gone from
 Asia ’s most-hated equities to the favorites of international
investors after valuations fell to a six-year low versus global
shares and  exports  rebounded.  Foreign money managers bought a net $1.04 billion of South
Korean equities this month, the most among 10 Asian markets
tracked by Bloomberg, following $7.2 billion of withdrawals this
year through July. The nation’s stocks trade at the same value
as companies’ net assets, versus 1.9 times for the MSCI All-Country World Index, the biggest discount since 2007. The
benchmark Kospi index has  rallied  5.9 percent from an 11-month
low on June 25, paring its 2013 loss to 5.6 percent.  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , the nation’s top
carmakers, and  SK Hynix Inc. (000660) , the world’s No. 2 computer-memory
chipmaker, are attracting money as exports fuel the fastest
economic growth in two years. Fund managers who help oversee
$1.1 trillion at HSBC Global Asset Management, Aberdeen Asset
Management, ABN Amro Private Banking and Edmond de Rothschild
Asset Management all say they are bullish.  “We are turning more positive on the country overall on
the extremely cheap valuation,” said David Gaud, a Hong Kong-based senior money manager at Rothschild, which oversees about
$157 billion. Korean shares may return 20 percent in the next
six months, he said. “The global cycle overall should improve
and  Korea  should be an interesting proxy.”  ‘Very Rare’  The last time South Korean stocks were this inexpensive
compared with global equities was January 2007, when the Kospi
jumped 42 percent in six months and outperformed the MSCI All-Country index by 36 percentage points, monthly data compiled by
Bloomberg show. The benchmark gauge for  South Korea ’s $1.1
trillion market trades at an 18 percent discount versus its
average price-to-book ratio of 1.2 during the past decade.  “It’s very rare” for valuations to fall this low, said
Bill Maldonado, the Asia-Pacific chief investment officer in
 Hong Kong  for HSBC Global Asset Management, which oversees about
$413 billion. “You’ve got a great opportunity there.”  Foreign investors have  added  money to South Korean shares
this month as they sold a combined $5.8 billion of stocks in
nine other Asian markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Thailand  recorded
$1.1 billion of outflows as data showed the economy contracted
in the second quarter.  South Korean exports increased 2.6 percent in July from a
year earlier, following a 1 percent decline in the previous
month, government figures show. Asia’s fifth-largest economy
grew 1.1 percent in the second quarter from the first three
months, the fastest pace since 2011.  Stimulus Concern  “It makes sense to buy Korea, especially companies that
are export-oriented,” said  Daphne Roth , the Singapore-based
head of Asian equity research at ABN Amro Private Banking, which
oversees about $207 billion.  The economy may be vulnerable to a withdrawal of stimulus,
said Lee Moo Kwang, a Singapore-based money manager at Truston
Asset Management, which oversees about $9.5 billion.  The central bank has kept its benchmark  interest rate  at
2.5 percent, the lowest level since 2010, for the past three
months. President Park Geun Hye’s government obtained a 17.3
trillion won ($15.5 billion) extra budget in May.  The U.S. Federal Reserve will begin paring its $85 billion
of monthly bond purchases by next month, according to 65 percent
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg from Aug. 9-13.  “We haven’t bought Korean stocks recently,” Lee said.
“If we can find proof that the general economy can improve
without further government stimulus, it will be a good signal to
enter.”  Bond Risk  South Korea’s bond risk is rising as  household debt  climbs
to a record, growth in  China  slows and a weaker yen makes
exporters less competitive versus Japanese rivals. The cost of
insuring government debt from non-payment rose to a two-month
high of 93 basis points on Aug. 21 and was at 84 basis points on
Aug. 26, according to CMA prices.  The government’s 10-year bond yield has climbed 49 basis
points this year to 3.67 percent. While the won dropped 4.7
percent to 1,116.28 per dollar, it is up 7.4 percent against the
yen.  As the currency stabilizes and sales to the U.S. improve,
profits will probably climb 16 percent this year and 15 percent
in 2014, according to Chanik Park, the head of Korea equity
research at Barclays Plc in  Seoul . That compares with gains of
5.3 percent and 10.6 percent in the U.S. Standard & Poor’s 500
Index, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Earnings Surprises  The “global growth environment is improving,” said
Bhaskar Laxminarayan, the chief investment officer at the Asian
banking unit of  Pictet & Cie ., which oversees about $411
billion. “Korea stands out as the Asian country outside of
 Japan  to have created significant global brands.”  More than 60 percent of 163 companies tracked by LIG
Investment & Securities Co. beat analysts’ estimates for
operating earnings in the second quarter, passing the 50 percent
mark for the first time in 13 quarters, the brokerage wrote in
an Aug. 21 report.  “We see above-average return potential in Korea, driven by
earnings growth” and higher valuations, Richard Titherington,
the chief investment officer for  emerging markets  equities at
JPMorgan Asset Management, which oversees about $1.5 trillion,
said in an e-mail interview.  Shares of Hyundai Motor, which gets about 57 percent of its
 sales  outside South Korea, attracted a net 260 billion won of
foreign purchases this month, the most among 762 stocks in the
Kospi index tracked by Bloomberg.  Relative Value  The Seoul-based company is valued at 1.04 times net assets
after shares climbed 8.9 percent this year. Kia Motors, which
had 225 billion won of net buying, has a price-to-book ratio of
1.4 after increasing 13 percent. That compares with multiples of
1.8 for  General Motors Co. (GM)  and 3.4 for Ford Motor Co.  South Korean automakers are “very cheap compared to global
peers,” said Oh Sung Sik, the chief investment officer for
Korean equities at Franklin Templeton Investments in Seoul.  SK Hynix lured 180 billion won of inflows, the data show.
The Gyeonggi-based chipmaker, whose second-quarter profit topped
analyst estimates, is valued at 6.2 times projected earnings for
the next 12 months, versus an average of 12 times during the
past three years, Bloomberg data show.  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the maker of smartphones and TVs
that has the biggest weighting in the Kospi Index, attracted 148
billion won. The Suwon-based company’s multiple reached a record
low of 5.7 times earnings in July and was 6.2 yesterday, even
after profits jumped 50 percent in the second quarter. The stock
has dropped 14 percent this year.  “We have been adding Samsung Electronics,” said Yoojeong Oh, a money manager at Aberdeen Asset Management, which had
about $318 billion under management as of June 30. “We felt it
had been unfairly penalized.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Cho in Seoul at 
 ccho28@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  