-- 
‘Benign’ New Zealand Inflation Vindicates English, Damps Kiwi

-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 
2011-04-18T05:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/-benign-new-zealand-inflation-vindicates-english-damps-kiwi.html
New Zealand ’s inflation accelerated
less than economists estimated, backing up Finance Minister Bill English’s view that price gains aren’t a problem and giving the
central bank room to keep  interest rates  low. The kiwi fell.  Consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in the first quarter from
the previous three months, when they advanced 2.3 percent,
 Statistics New Zealand  said in Wellington today. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of 12 economists was for a 1
percent gain.  Economic growth of less than 1 percent in the fourth
quarter and slower-than-expected inflation add to the case for
central bank Governor Alan Bollard to keep rates at a record-low
2.5 percent for much of 2011 to buoy confidence after
earthquakes in Christchurch hurt spending. New Zealand’s stance
contrasts with those in China,  India  and  Singapore , where
central banks are tightening policy amid growing price pressures.  “Underlying inflation remains benign” in New Zealand,
said  Helen Kevans , an economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in
Sydney. “There remains little urgency for Governor Bollard to
tighten policy.”  New Zealand’s dollar and bond yields fell after the report.
The currency bought 79.38 U.S. cents at 5 p.m. in Wellington
after reaching a three-year high of 80.05 cents before today’s
data. Three-year bond yields fell 6 basis points to 3.51 percent.  Inflation Target  Bollard, who is required to keep annual inflation between 1
percent and 3 percent, said on April 11 he will focus monetary
policy on medium-term inflation pressures rather than any
immediate jump in costs arising from record-high prices for milk
and meat in world markets.  Prices excluding food, fuel and electricity rose 0.1
percent in the quarter, the  statistics agency  said today.  English said in a Bloomberg Television interview last week
he isn’t concerned about inflation, which has been exacerbated
by a higher  sales-tax  and other one-time events. An Oct. 1
increase in sales tax to 15 percent from 12.5 percent and a
boost in levies on tobacco and cigarettes has contributed to
consumer-price gains.  “With good central bank focus on an inflation target, we
don’t see any reason to believe that inflation is going to be a
problem for us over the next few years,” English said in the
interview on April 15 at the Boao Forum for  Asia  in southern
China’s Hainan province. “There will be some pressures there as
the economy picks up, but we’re in pretty good shape on
inflation.”  Christchurch Quake  Annual inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent in the year
ended March 31 and Bollard has forecast price gains may reach
5.4 percent in the period to June 30 before falling below 3
percent by the end of 2011.  Bollard cut the official cash rate on March 10 to boost
confidence after an earthquake in the southern city of
Christchurch on Feb. 22 killed more than 170 people, wrecked
houses and forced companies out of the central business district.
The central bank slashed its 2011 growth forecast to 1.3 percent
from 2.7 percent.  Ten of 14 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News last month
predicted Bollard will leave the official cash rate at 2.5
percent until the first quarter of 2012. Four estimated a rate
increase in the fourth quarter.  Elsewhere, Asian central banks are tightening policy as
rising commodity prices fan inflation.  China  yesterday increased
banks’ reserve requirements and central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said monetary tightening will continue for “some
time.”  In India, inflation accelerated more than economists
estimated in March as the cost of fuel and manufactured goods
rose, putting pressure on policy makers to raise rates in Asia’s
third-largest economy.  Vietnam ,  Taiwan ,  South Korea  and  Thailand 
also increased borrowing costs this year to contain prices, and
Singapore said last week it would allow further currency gains.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  