-- 
Accused Online Gambling Payment Processor Franzen Pleads Not Guilty

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-18T16:40:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/accused-online-gambling-payment-processor-franzen-pleads-not-guilty.html
Bradley Franzen, one of 11 people
charged last week with being part of an online gambling
conspiracy, pleaded not guilty before a U.S. magistrate in  New
York .  Franzen, 41, of  Illinois  and  Costa Rica , is accused of
lying to banks about the nature of the transactions they were
processing, and of creating fake companies and websites to
disguise payments to poker companies.  Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara announced on April 15
a revised indictment against the founders of PokerStars, Full
Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker.  PokerStars , based on the  Isle of
Man , Ireland’s  Full Tilt Poker  and  Absolute Poker  of Costa Rica
are the leading online poker sites doing business with U.S.
customers, according to prosecutors.  “Not guilty, your honor,” Franzen told U.S. Magistrate
Judge Frank Maas today in Manhattan after being asked how he
pleaded to the charges.  Franzen was charged with nine counts, including conspiracy
to violate the Internet Gambling Enforcement Act, operating an
illegal gambling business and conspiracy to commit bank and wire
fraud as well as being part of a money laundering conspiracy. If
convicted of the charge of conspiracy to commit bank and wire
fraud, he faces as long as 30 years in prison, prosecutors said.  Surrendered Today  Assistant U.S. Attorney Nicole Friedlander told Maas that
Franzen surrendered to agents of the  Federal Bureau of
Investigation  in New York this morning. Maas agreed to release
Franzen on $200,000 bond secured by his parents’ home and their
signatures.  “We’ll be reviewing the indictment and at this time we have
no further comment,” his lawyer, Sam Schmidt, said after the
hearing.  The indictment names two principals from each company and
others who allegedly worked with them to illegally process
payments.  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, PokerStars, Full Tilt and Absolute worked around the
ban to continue operating in the U.S.  The poker companies named in the indictment are accused of
using fraudulent means to circumvent federal laws and “trick”
banks into processing the payments on their behalf. The
government is seeking at least $3 billion in forfeitures and
penalties.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-CR-336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  