-- 
African Trial of Gilead HIV Drug Stopped as No Benefit Is Shown in Women

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-04-18T20:32:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/african-trial-of-gilead-hiv-drug-stopped-as-no-benefit-is-shown.html
Researchers canceled a study in
 Africa  to see whether Gilead Science Inc.’s Truvada pill would
help prevent infection from HIV, after finding no benefit by the
people taking the medicine midway through the trial.  Of the 56 women in the trial who contracted HIV, half were
taking Truvada and half were on a placebo pill, according to a
statement by  FHI , a nonprofit global health group that sponsored
the study. The trial of 3,902 women was halted after an
independent data monitoring committee advised that it would be
“highly unlikely to be able” to show Truvada’s effectiveness
in preventing HIV infection in the study population, FHI said.  Gilead fell 3.3 percent to $40.32 at 4 p.m. New York time
in Nasdaq Stock Market composite trading, the most since Aug.
11. Truvada combines two anti-HIV medications made by Gilead,
Emtriva and Viread, and is currently used to treat people
already affected by the disease. A study released last November
found that Truvada helped protect gay and bisexual men from
getting infected with the AIDS virus.  “While this development was not what we would have hoped
for, Gilead believes that antiretroviral therapies remain a
promising potential HIV prevention strategy,” Amy Flood, a
Gilead spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “We continue to support
ongoing studies evaluating the company’s antiretroviral
therapies as potential preventatives.”  The previous study had shown that Truvada, in combination
with counseling and condom use, lowered the rate of infection
among men who have sex with men. FHI, based in Durham,  North
Carolina , said the study in African women could have failed
because people didn’t adhere to the treatment regimen, the drug
might not have worked in women or other reasons not known yet.  “At this time, it cannot be determined whether or not
Truvada works to prevent HIV infection in women,” FHI said in
the statement.  The  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation  helped fund the effort.
Microsoft Corp. chairman Gates’ organization is dedicated to
improving global public health, increasing development and
improving education.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net . 