-- 
Thai Baht Steady as Rate Outlook Countered by Intervention Risk

-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-04-18T01:47:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/thai-baht-steady-as-rate-outlook-countered-by-intervention-risk.html
Thailand ’s baht was little changed
as the prospect of higher  interest rates  was countered by
concern the central bank will intervene to stem appreciation
that threatens exports.  The Bank of Thailand will lift its one-day bond repurchase
rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.75 percent on April
20, according to all 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Benchmark rates in the U.S. and  Japan  are a maximum 0.25 percent,
spurring demand for higher-yielding assets elsewhere. Overseas
investors  bought  $2.8 billion more local government debt than
they sold this month through April 12, according to data from
the Thai Bond Market Association.  “Under the current environment where the risk appetite has
been improving, the rate-hike speculation would help boost the
 Thai baht ,” said Tohru Nishihama, economist at Dai-ichi Life
Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “The central bank will allow
more appreciation in the baht to curb inflation, but will
intervene when the pace of gains is fast.”  The baht traded at 30.14 per dollar as of 8:34 a.m. in
Bangkok, unchanged from its closing level on April 12, the last
day of trading before local financial markets closed for a
three-day holiday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency hit this year’s strongest level of 29.95 on April 8 and
Nishihama said it may approach 30 this week.  Rate Rises  The central bank has lifted the one-day bond repurchase
rate five times since June and Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul
said last month the bank may raise rates further. Consumer
prices rose 3.14 percent in March from a year earlier, the most
since August, official figures show.  Deputy Governor Atchana Waiquamdee said last week the
central bank had “stepped in” to smooth volatility in the baht.  The yield on the 3.125 percent debt due December 2015 was
unchanged from April 12 at 3.24 percent. The onshore one-year
interest-rate swap, the fixed cost needed to receive a floating
payment, slid five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to
2.94 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  