-- 
AIG Sells Rail-Car Leasing Business to Perella Weinberg

-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-04-18T22:24:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/aig-is-said-to-near-600-million-sale-of-rail-car-unit-to-perella-weinberg.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the insurer rescued by the U.S. government, agreed to sell a
rail-car leasing unit to Perella Weinberg Partners LP, the two
companies said today in a joint statement.  The deal values the business at about $600 million, said
two people with knowledge of the matter, who spoke on the
condition of anonymity. New York-based AIG and Perella Weinberg
didn’t disclose terms in the statement.  AIG, the recipient of a $182.3 billion U.S. government
rescue, has been shedding assets to raise cash and narrow its
focus to selling commercial insurance around the world and life
insurance in the U.S. Perella Weinberg already owns Infinity
Transportation, which manages rail and trucking assets, through
its asset-management division.  “We continue to see long-term value in rail,” said David Schiff, a  Perella Weinberg  partner, said in the statement.
“Rail remains the most efficient mode of transportation and we
expect to benefit from the positive industry dynamics going
forward.”  AIG Rail Services Inc. will be renamed Flagship Rail
Services LLC after the deal’s conclusion, and Eugene Henneberry
will continue to run the business as chief executive officer,
the companies said. The transaction will probably be completed
by the end of the quarter.  AIG said in a February regulatory filing it agreed to sell
the business, without specifying the buyer or terms. The unit is
part of a division set up in 2004 by a group of equipment-
finance executives who joined AIG from Aegon NV’s Transamerica
unit, according to an  AIG website . It manages 11,000 tank cars,
hoppers, and other cars from its headquarters in  Chicago .
Competitors include  GATX Corp. (GMT)  and units of  General Electric Co. (GE) 
and  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)   Perella Investments  Perella Weinberg, the investment bank founded in New York
in 2006 by Joseph Perella and Peter Weinberg, has an asset-
management division with $7.7 billion in capital commitments and
managed assets, overseen by founding partner Tarek Abdel-Meguid.
Schiff is portfolio manager of the $1 billion Asset-Based Value
strategy.  AIG has disclosed divestitures valued at more than $50
billion, including interests in a power plant, a consumer
lender, and insurers in  Hong Kong  and  Japan . It repaid a credit
line from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in January. The
U.S. Treasury Department plans to divest its 92 percent stake in
AIG shares in public offerings as soon as this year.  The company’s shares fell 85 cents, or 2.5 percent, to
$32.61 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading
and have declined 32 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at   jsondag@bloomberg.net  