-- 
Thailand May Raise Interest Rate as Asia Grapples With Inflation, Inflows

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 
2011-04-19T03:21:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/thailand-may-raise-rate-as-asia-grapples-with-inflation-inflows.html
Thailand  may raise borrowing costs
for the sixth time in less than a year as  Asia  strives to damp
inflation stoked by surging commodity prices and capital inflows.  The Bank of Thailand will raise its benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate by a quarter of a percentage point to 2.75
percent, according to all 20 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News. The decision is due at 2:30 p.m. in Bangkok tomorrow.  Thailand would join  China  in tightening monetary policy
this month after economic growth and oil at more than $100 a
barrel helped drive inflation to a seven-month high. Thai Prime
Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  has added price controls, kept oil
subsidies and pledged higher wages to ease the impact of rising
costs ahead of a general election he may hold as soon as June.  “Thai rates right now aren’t consistent with the strong
growth we’re seeing, and inflation in the second half will rise
much more than it has in the first as some subsidies are
unwound,” said  Ramya Suryanarayanan , an economist at DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “We’re probably only about halfway
through in terms of rate hikes across Asia and we have quite a
bit more to go.”  The  Thai baht  has climbed more than 7 percent against the
dollar over the past year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, rising along with most Asian currencies as the region
that led the recovery from the 2009 global recession attracted
foreign investment.     The baht traded at 30.12 per dollar as of
10:13 a.m. in Bangkok, unchanged from yesterday.  Interest-Rate Swap  The onshore one-year interest-rate swap, the fixed cost
needed to receive a floating payment, has increased 111.5 basis
points this year and reached the highest level since December
2008 this month, indicating growing expectations for higher
rates. The rate has added 22 basis points since the last policy
meeting on March 9. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Bank of Thailand Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said last
week inflation will accelerate in the second half and may climb
as much as one percentage point once the government removes
subsidies. He signaled further rate increases last month, saying
growth is “less of a concern so the risk balance is tilted
toward inflation.”  Consumer prices advanced 3.14 percent in March from a year
earlier, the fastest pace since August last year. Core prices,
which exclude fresh food and fuel, rose 1.62 percent,
accelerating from a 1.45 percent pace in February. The central
bank uses the core index to guide policy and aims to keep it
below 3 percent.  “The Bank of Thailand is trying to build up buffers by
raising rates now so that it can cut later if needed should
there be an unexpected slowdown,” said Tetsuo Yoshikoshi, a
Singapore-based senior economist at Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corp.  Asian Tightening  The central bank raised rates by a quarter point each in
July, August, December, January and March. Counterparts from
 India  to  South Korea  also boosted borrowing costs last month,
while China has lifted reserve ratios and increased its deposit
and one-year lending rates this month.  The Thai economy may expand 4.2 percent in 2011, less than
the 4.5 percent estimated earlier, Finance Minister  Korn Chatikavanij  said April 8. The impact of  Japan ’s strongest
earthquake on record, domestic flooding and high crude prices
are among reasons why, he said.  Thai Airways International Pcl (THAI) , the nation’s largest
carrier, said March 28 its total daily revenue had fallen 5
percent in the past two weeks because of a decline in demand
from Japan.  Export growth climbed to an eight-month high in February on
sales of Thailand’s agricultural, automotive and electrical-
appliance products.  While disruption from the temblor may damp trade, Commerce
Minister  Porntiva Nakasai  said March 18 Japan’s rebuilding drive
should subsequently boost Thai shipments to that nation by as
much as 20 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 Suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  