-- 
Air Lease Godfather Udvar-Hazy Seeks Higher Valuation Than Peers in IPO

-- B y   S u s a n n a   R a y
-- 
2011-04-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/air-lease-godfather-seeks-higher-valuation-than-peers-in-ipo.html
Steven Udvar-Hazy’s Air Lease Corp.
may raise $700 million in the industry’s biggest initial public
offering as the so-called godfather of aircraft leasing bets his
new fleet will command a premium over peers.  Air Lease is scheduled to offer 25 million shares later
today for $25 to $28 each, according to a regulatory filing and
data compiled by Bloomberg. At the midpoint, Air Lease would be
valued at 1.47 times net tangible book value, a measure of
shareholder equity that excludes some assets. Competitor  AerCap
Holdings NV (AER)  trades at 1.02 by that measure and  Fly Leasing Ltd. (FLY) 
trades at a multiple of 0.77.  Udvar-Hazy, 65, is drawing on four decades of relationships
with airlines, planemakers and bankers to recreate some of what
he walked away from in 2010 when he left  American International
Group Inc. (AIG)  As chairman and chief executive officer of Los
Angeles-based Air Lease, he has built a fleet of 49 aircraft,
with orders for more than 150 additional planes since founding
the company 14 months ago.  “You’re buying that one because you’re buying Hazy,” Ron Epstein, an aerospace analyst at Bank of America Corp. in  New
York , said of the Air Lease IPO.  Air Lease is one of the companies seeking a total of at
least $3.2 billion in global IPOs this week. Hui Xian Real
Estate Investment Trust is offering as much as 11.2 billion yuan
($1.7 billion) of shares in its Hong Kong debut, and 21Vianet
Group Inc., the Beijing-based Internet data center services
provider, may raise $138 million in the U.S.  Jet Leasing  Udvar-Hazy arrived in the U.S. from  Hungary  at the age of
13 and began leasing planes to airlines while still in college.
He became the biggest customer of  Boeing Co. (BA)  and Airbus SAS
after establishing International Lease Finance Corp. in 1973,
and built the company into the world’s largest jet lessor before
selling it to AIG in 1990. At the time of his departure from
ILFC last year, he was managing a fleet of about 1,000 aircraft
valued at about $44 billion.  He started his new venture in February 2010 and was the
biggest buyer at the Farnborough,  England , Air Show in July
after raising $1.3 billion from institutional investors
including Leonard Green & Partners LP, Ares Management LLC and
Commonwealth Bank of  Australia .  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse AG, Barclays Plc, FBR
Capital Markets,  RBC Capital Markets  and Wells Fargo & Co. are
managing the offering. The shares will trade on the New York
Stock Exchange under the symbol AL.  ‘Legacy Challenges’  Air Lease’s fleet doesn’t have the “legacy challenges”
that saddle competitors, Udvar-Hazy said in a presentation
broadcast online by  RetailRoadshow . The company’s 49 jets have a
weighted average age of 3.5 years, compared with 5.4 years for
AerCap’s 350 planes, 8.1 years for Fly’s 59 and 11 years for
competitor  Aircastle Ltd. (AYR) ’s 136 aircraft, according to company
filings. Air Lease doesn’t plan to pay a dividend, according to
its prospectus, while Aircastle and Fly do.  Aircraft leasing is growing in popularity as airlines seek
flexibility within the cyclical air-travel industry as well as a
way to avoid burdening their balance sheets with the billions of
dollars required to fund plane purchases.  In 1990, about 10 percent of the world’s commercial planes
were leased, and by 2015 that proportion will reach 35 percent,
according to estimates by Ascend and Avitas provided by Air
Lease. Still, the three aircraft lessors that went public in the
two years before the recession hit -- AerCap, Aircastle and Fly
-- are all trading at least 37 percent below their $23 initial
share price.  Increasing Competition  Competition has increased as new lessors have appeared,
including Avolon Leasing Group and Jackson Square Aviation LLC,
created last year by experienced leasing executives. Larger,
established lessors including  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s Gecas, ILFC
and  CIT Group Inc. (CIT)  are recovering from the dry spell during the
recession and have placed orders this year.  The IPO may serve as a signal to others in the industry as
they contemplate their own futures.  “If Hazy can’t do it, nobody can,” according to Steve Rimmer, CEO of Issaquah, Washington-based Guggenheim Aviation
Partners, a private equity manager that buys jets to lease.
“There’s no doubt he’s the smartest man on the street.”  Global Pricings  In other IPO news, 21Vianet is offering 11.5 million
American depositary receipts for $10 to $12 each, according to
its prospectus. Proceeds will be used to expand its data center
and network infrastructure and other general corporate purposes.  21Vianet is the largest carrier-neutral Internet data
center services provider in  China  by 2009 revenue, according to
research firm International Data Corp., the company said in its
filing.  Morgan Stanley, Barclays and JPMorgan Chase are leading the
offering. The shares will trade on the Nasdaq Stock Market under
the symbol VNET.  Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s Hui Xian REIT received orders for
all stock on the day it started the sale, two people with
knowledge of the situation said last week. The offering is
scheduled to price tomorrow, according to the termsheet, and
will start trading on April 29. Hui Xian, the first Chinese
currency-denominated IPO outside the mainlaind, is offering 2
billion units at 5.24 yuan to 5.58 yuan.  Russian lender Nomos Bank is scheduled to price its IPO
today, according to a sales document obtained by Bloomberg. It
initially sought as much as $640 million and raised the deal
size by 10 percent on April 15. Nomos is controlled by
billionaire  Alexander Nesis .  Glencore International AG is gauging investors’ interest in
its IPO, which may raise as much as $11 billion, and is
scheduled to announce a price range for the sale on May 4,
according to terms for the sale obtained by Bloomberg. The Swiss
commodity trader’s IPO may be the world’s biggest this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanna Ray in Seattle at 
 sray7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at   jsondag@bloomberg.net . 