-- 
Halliburton Profit Rises on North American Oil Output Boost

-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 
2011-04-18T11:42:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/halliburton-profit-rises-on-north-american-oil-output-increase.html
Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s
second-largest oilfield services provider, said first-quarter
profit climbed as rising oil prices led to increased efforts to
find oil and natural gas in North America.  Net income rose to $511 million, or 56 cents a share, from
$206 million, or 23 cents, a year earlier, Halliburton said
today in a statement. Excluding charges of $46 million because
of the impact of unrest in  Libya , the Houston-based company
earned 61 cents a share, 3 cents more than the average of 32
analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales climbed 40
percent to $5.28 billion.  The average oil price for the quarter was 20 percent higher
than a year ago, and the number of drilling rigs active in the
United States and Canada rose 29 percent, according to Baker
Hughes Inc.  Halliburton is the largest provider in  North America  for
pressure pumping, which uses materials such as sand and water to
fracture rocks and help gas or oil to flow.  “You’ve had a massive uptick in rig count, top-line growth
and profitability in their North American business,” said Bill Sanchez, an analyst at Howard Weil in Houston, who rates the
shares a “buy” and owns none. “That’s been primarily driven
by their leading pressure-pumping franchise.” Producers use
this technology to drill in shale formations.  Unrest in Libya  The $46 million, or 5 cents, charge reflects accounts
receivable with the Libyan national  oil companies  that may not
be paid and inventory that Halliburton thinks may have been
“compromised in the unrest,” according to the statement. The
charge does not include operating losses in the country during
the first quarter, Halliburton said.  The company said last month disruptions in the Middle East
and North  Africa  would “severely” cut first quarter earnings
by 3 to 4 cents a share, and that the seasonal declines from
year-end product sales and weather at the high end of its
typical 5 cents to 8 cents per-share range.  Countries in Africa and the Middle East have been rocked by
unrest this year, forcing leaders in Tunisia and  Egypt  to step
down. Libya is the site of airstrikes from NATO forces as some
countries seek to oust its leader,  Muammar Qaddafi .  The earnings statement was released before the opening of
trading on U.S. markets. Halliburton rose 98 cents to $47.80 in
 New York  before regular trading began on the New York Stock
Exchange. The shares, which have 33 buy and four hold ratings
from analysts, climbed 22 percent during the first quarter.  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield services
provider, is expected to report earnings on April 21.  (Halliburton will hold an earnings conference call for
investors and analysts, starting at 9 a.m. New York time. To
listen, access a broadcast at LIVE .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  