-- 
Alterra Investors Should Oppose KPMG Reappointment, ISS Says

-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 
2011-04-18T04:00:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/alterra-investors-should-oppose-kpmg-reappointment-iss-says.html
Alterra Capital Holdings Ltd. (ALTE) 
investors should reject the insurer’s plan to reappoint KPMG-
 Bermuda  after a government accounting board faulted the
auditor’s work, said Institutional Shareholder Services Inc.  The proxy-advisory service joins Glass Lewis & Co. in
advising shareholders next month to vote against a proposal by
Alterra’s management to keep the Bermuda affiliate of the Big
Four accounting firm as the company’s auditor.  A  review  by the  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board 
found deficiencies in the way KPMG-Bermuda tested the fair value
of available-for-sale securities on an unnamed public company’s
fiscal 2008 financial statements. Alterra, the Bermuda-based
insurer formed by the merger of Max Capital Group Ltd. and
Harbor Point Ltd., said it was the client in a filing on March
31, a day after a Bloomberg News column made the connection.  “Shareholders and the company could benefit from the
appointment of a new auditor,” ISS said in an April 15 report.
It cited the “recently completed regulatory investigation which
identified significant deficiencies in the auditor’s methodology
for testing and affirming the company’s FY 2008 financial
statements, as well as other auditor-related issues which may be
of concern.”  Susan Spivak Bernstein, an Alterra spokeswoman, and Neil
Patterson, managing partner at KPMG-Bermuda, didn’t respond to
e-mails seeking comment yesterday.  The oversight board said it appeared KPMG-Bermuda “did not
obtain sufficient competent evidential matter to support its
opinion on the issuer’s financial statements.”  Alterra held about $3.59 billion in available-for-sale
fixed-maturity securities at the end of 2008, compared with
total assets of $7.25 billion.  Mario Torsiello, chairman of Alterra’s audit committee,
Chief Financial Officer Joseph Roberts and Chief Accounting
Officer David Shead all previously worked at  KPMG , according to
Alterra’s proxy filing.  Alterra scheduled a vote on whether to reappoint KPMG-
Bermuda for its annual meeting on May 2.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in New York at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  