-- 
BP Sued by Pointe Au Chien Indian Tribe Over Spill Damage, Fishing Losses

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 
2011-04-18T15:53:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/american-indian-tribe-sues-bp-for-spill-damages-fishing-losses.html
BP Plc (BP/)  was sued by the Pointe Au
Chien tribe over claims the Indian group’s ancestral lands and
fishing grounds in southern  Louisiana  were devastated by the
2010 oil spill.  The  tribe  “has suffered loss of use of its historical and
cultural lands, including tribal cemeteries, Indian mounds,
shell middens and traditional fisheries,’’ according to the
complaint, filed in federal court in  New Orleans  on April 15.  “Use of these lands has been lost from April 20, 2010, to
the present,’’ the complaint alleged, citing the date the
Deepwater Horizon rig blew up while drilling an offshore well
for BP. The tribe said it has an “an aboriginal land title
claim’’ to the damaged areas.  The Pointe Au Chien case is the first  oil-spill  damages
suit filed by any of Louisiana’s American Indian tribes. BP
faces thousands of claims and more than 350 lawsuits seeking
damages from individuals and businesses harmed by oil that
gushed from its damaged subsea well last year.  The Pointe Au Chien tribe numbers roughly 680 members and
isn’t one of four federally recognized tribal nations in
Louisiana, according to its lawyer in the case, Joel Waltzer.
The Pointe Au Chien, which has settled the reedy coastal
marshlands for centuries, are recognized by the state of
Louisiana.  Subsistence Fishermen  Most of the tribe’s members are subsistence or commercial
oystermen or fishermen, Waltzer said in an interview last year.
During the off-season, many work in the oil industry as tug boat
drivers or on offshore supply vessels.  “They are people of the water,’’ Waltzer said. “They know
the marshes better than you know your home. That’s why I think
the Unified Command found them invaluable to the cleanup
effort.’’  The Pointe Au Chien’s tribal lands straddle the border
between Lafourche and Terrebonne Parishes, including the
northern sections of Timbalier and Terrebonne Bays, Lake Chien
and Lake Raccourci, according to their complaint.  The tribe seeks compensation for lost tax revenue and
income, decline in property values, spill cleanup costs,
restoration of its damaged natural resources, and punitive
damages.  BP spokesman  Daren Beaudo  didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment on the tribe’s lawsuit.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig “Deepwater
Horizon” Local Government Entities, 2:10-cv-09999, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 