-- 
America Movil Drops Most in Five Months on Antitrust Fine

-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 
2011-04-18T20:27:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/america-movil-faces-new-era-of-scrutiny-with-a-1-billion-monopoly-fine.html
America Movil  SAB fell the most in
five months as a record $1 billion fine by Mexico’s antitrust
agency increased pressure on Latin America’s biggest mobile
carrier to defend its 71 percent market share in its home
country.  America Movil dropped 66 centavos, or 1.9 percent, to
33.33 pesos in Mexico City trading at 4:10 p.m.  New York  time,
the biggest daily percentage slide since Nov. 9. The shares have
declined 6 percent this year.  The  Federal Competition Commission  assessed the fine for
monopolistic practices in the market for fees charged to
complete calls to a wireless network, America Movil said late
April 15 in a stock exchange filing. The Mexico City-based
company, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim , said it will use
“every one of the defense measures at its disposal.”  The fine, which may get reduced or overturned in court,
signals that the regulatory and competitive pressures on America
Movil in its biggest market are rising, said  Christopher King ,
an analyst at Stifel Nicolaus & Co. in Baltimore. Mexico will
represent 39 percent of America Movil’s sales this year and
49 percent of profit before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, King estimated.  “There’s clearly a sharpened focus on their competitive
position,” King, who rates the shares “neutral,” said in an
interview. “It’s clear that America Movil has to enter a new
era from a competitive standpoint, that they need to be more
fair and judicious with respect to their business practices.”  America Movil executives declined to comment beyond the
statement, said an official who can’t be named under company
policy. Federal Competition Commission President Eduardo Perez Motta wasn’t available for comment, an agency official said.  Fee Battle  The carrier had 225 million mobile-phone  subscribers  at the
end of last year, including 64 million in Mexico. America Movil
represents about two-thirds of Slim’s $78.3 billion in publicly
disclosed holdings, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
company had about $9.24 billion in cash and short-term
investments at the end of 2010.  The company’s Mexican mobile unit, Telcel, and its
Telefonos de Mexico SAB fixed-line unit have battled this year
over interconnection fees, which each carrier has to pay to
competitors to connect calls. Mobile carrier Grupo Iusacell SA
and  Grupo Televisa SA (TLEVICPO) , which controls cable rivals to Telmex,
began an advertising campaign in February associating the fees
with phone-service prices in Mexico.  Necessary for Investment  Mexico’s phone-industry regulator decided against America
Movil in March in an interconnection-fee dispute with a smaller
fixed-line carrier, Alestra SA, slashing by more than half the
rate America Movil had proposed. Mony de Swaan, the regulator’s
president, told Congress in March he expected the ruling to be
challenged in court for two or three years.  America Movil Chief Financial Officer Carlos Garcia Moreno
told reporters in March that the company has already been
cutting interconnection fees and that the prices are competitive
in dollar terms with the fees charged in European and Latin
American countries. The fees are necessary to promote investment
in the wireless industry, he said.  Both sides have filed complaints against each other this
year with the antitrust agency. The $1 billion fine disclosed
last week was the result of a probe begun by the competition
commission in 2006, America Movil said.  The company said the fine was for “relative monopolistic
practices,” which under Mexican law can apply to actions by a
company to restrict the entry of competitors into a market or to
establish anticompetitive advantages. The antitrust agency
hasn’t released specifics of its decision.  Aggressive Competition  Televisa raised the pressure on America Movil this month,
announcing that it would buy a 50 percent stake in Iusacell for
$1.6 billion to enter the wireless market itself. While
Iusacell, which has more than 4 million subscribers, has
struggled to gain market share in Mexico, Televisa Chief
Executive Officer Emilio Azcarraga pledged in an interview this
month to offer lower prices and higher quality to consumers.  If Televisa is committed to the wireless business, the
added rivalry represents “the most serious threat from a
competitive standpoint to Carlos Slim’s business that we’ve seen
over the last 10 years,” King said.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Mexico’s second-largest carrier, and  NII
Holdings Inc. (NIHD) , the fourth-largest after Iusacell, are also
expanding their networks to offer high-speed Internet downloads
after acquiring airwaves in a government auction last year.  Record Penalty  “Telcel is facing new competitive threats,” Walter Piecyk, an analyst at BTIG LLC in New York who recommends buying
NII shares, said in an e-mail. “With the government’s firm
stance with this fine, larger multinational telecom companies
might have increased interest in looking at the independent
wireless competitors in Mexico.”  The fine of 12 billion pesos ($1.03 billion) by the
antitrust agency surpassed the 1 billion peso total of fines
assessed last year against a group of pharmaceutical companies
and individuals for collusion, said the antitrust official, who
can’t be named under the agency’s policy.  The current maximum antitrust penalty for first-time
violations is about 85 million pesos. America Movil’s fine was
larger because of repeated incidents, the official said. The
agency last fined America Movil in 2007, and the details of that
case have been sealed in court, the official said.  The lower house of  Mexico ’s congress approved a measure
this month that would allow fines for monopolies of up to 10
percent of the sales of the unit of the company that committed
the violations. The proposal also includes jail sentences for
individuals. The proposal awaits approval by the Senate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  