-- 
Amper to Break Even by 2013 on Latin America, Middle East

-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-04-18T16:55:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/amper-ceo-predicts-break-even-by-2013-on-latin-america-middle-east-growth.html
Amper SA (AMP) , a Spanish maker of
communications equipment, aims to break even within three years
as sales and profit from Latin America offset declines in its
domestic market, Chief Executive Officer Alfredo Redondo said.  Amper, which has reported net losses for the last two
years, aims to return to profitability between 2011 and 2013 as
new contracts in the Middle East, soaring demand from Latin
America and cost cuts in  Spain  boost sales and earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, Redondo said.  “Our growth plans are aggressive but reachable,” the CEO
said in a phone interview. “Latin America is growing rapidly
and Spain continues to slow down.”  Full-year sales for the Madrid-based company will jump more
than 60 percent to 420 million euros ($608 million), thanks to
the purchase of  eLandia International Inc. (ELAN)  and a “very
significant” defense contract from the  United Arab Emirates ,
the 49-year-old executive said. Those deals, as well as savings
from job cuts in Spain, will allow Ebitda to reach 20 million
euros in 2011, he said.  The executive, who became CEO of Amper in July 2010 after
being the president of the Spanish division of Paris-based
Alcatel-Lucent SA, declined to comment on whether the company
will be profitable this year.  Amper shares dropped 3.5 percent to close at 3.85 euros in
Madrid trading, after climbing as much as 2.5 percent when the
market opened.  ELandia Stake  “Amper has disappointed the market for the last couple of
years in terms of earnings,” Ignacio Ortiz de Mendivil, an
analyst at Banco BPI in  Madrid , said by phone. “We really
expect the company to report profit this year and would be
disappointed if they don’t achieve break-even. It would mean the
market was more bullish than the company.”  Amper said April 1 that it bought an 85 percent stake in
U.S.-based eLandia by swapping 79.7 percent of its Medidata
Informatica Telecom unit in  Brazil . The transaction will give
Amper access to more than 3,000 new clients in 17 countries in
Latin America and the South Pacific region, the company said.  Amper was founded in 1956 as an entry-phone maker and its
business includes providing radio communications equipment to
the Spanish army. Other clients include phone operators
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  and  Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD) , Spanish utility  Endesa SA (ELE) 
and  Repsol YPF SA (REP) , Spain’s biggest oil company. Telefonica,
Spain’s former phone monopoly, has a 5.8 percent stake in Amper,
the equipment maker said April 15.  Growth Plans  Amper said in February that it signed a three-year contract
valued at more than 90 million euros with Emiraje Systems, a
company from the United Arab Emirates, to develop and supply
defense systems.  “Performance so far this year is in line with our business
plan,” Redondo said. “We predict huge growth potential in
Latin America and especially in the banking, energy and health
industries.”  Foreign sales will climb this year to account for more than
50 percent of the total from about 30 percent a year earlier,
the executive said. Amper will consider acquisitions in existing
and new markets after consolidating its current operations, he
said  The company said in November it aims for 2013 sales of as
much as 520 million euros with Ebitda of 36 million euros to 40
million euros.  Amper, whose suppliers include  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and  Cisco
Systems Inc. (CSCO) , has gained 33 percent this year in Madrid trading,
valuing the company at 125 million euros. The Ibex 35 Index
climbed 4.9 percent in the period. Amper shares fell almost 50
percent last year.  “Amper still needs to recover credibility from
investors,” Redondo said. “We just need to be a regular and
more stable company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  