-- 
Apple Claims Samsung's Galaxy Phones, Tablet Copy IPhone, IPad Devices

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 
2011-04-19T03:47:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/apple-files-suit-against-samsung-over-galaxy-phones-and-tablets.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  sued Samsung Electronics
Co. alleging that the electronics maker’s Galaxy phones and
tablet computers infringe patents and the trademarked look of
the iPhone and iPad.  Samsung is infringing patents related to the way the Galaxy
devices operate, including the use of hand gestures on the
screen, as well as patents on the color and rectangular shape of
the iPhone and iPad, Apple said in a complaint filed April 15 in
federal court in Oakland,  California . The Galaxy phones and
tablet, which use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software, were
specifically designed to copy Apple products, Apple said.  The lawsuit pits the two largest makers of tablet computers
against each other amid the surge in demand for the product,
which Apple has said will eventually surpass personal computers
in sales.  Steve Jobs , Chief Executive Officer of Apple, which
relies on Samsung to supply chips for the iPhone and iPad,
called out Samsung when unveiling the iPad 2 in March, saying
that the company was among the tablet makers angling to make
2011 the “Year of Copycats.”  “What’s of concern is that you can see the strategic
relationship between Samsung and Apple getting worse of late,”
said Kim Young Chan, an analyst at Shinhan Investment Corp. “As
Samsung pushes ahead with its handset and tablet business, Apple
is trying to keep Samsung in check.”  Steve Dowling, a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, said the company needed to protect its intellectual
property.  Blatant Copying  “It’s no coincidence that Samsung’s latest products look a
lot like the iPhone and iPad, from the shape of the hardware to
the user interface and even the packaging,” he said. “This
kind of blatant copying is wrong, and we need to protect Apple’s
intellectual property when companies steal our ideas.”  Samsung shares dropped 0.7 percent to 861,000 won at 12:44
p.m. in Seoul trading, poised for a fourth consecutive day of
decline. The shares have tumbled 9.4 percent this year compared
with a 2.9 percent gain for Apple on the Nasdaq Stock Market.  “Samsung’s development of core technologies and
strengthening our intellectual property portfolio are keys to
our continued success,” said Titus Kim, a spokesman for Suwon,
South Korea-based Samsung. “Samsung will respond actively to
this legal action taken against us through appropriate legal
measures to protect our intellectual property.”  Apple Vs Google  Apple and Google are competing for supremacy in the growing
market for smartphones and tablets. Google’s Android operating
system -- used by Samsung, Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc. and
other companies -- will account for 39.5 percent of global
smartphone shipments this year, compared with 15.7 percent for
Apple, according to market research firm IDC.  The iPad dominates the tablet market, accounting for
about two-thirds of sales this year, according to Gartner Inc.  “Apple is going to be very aggressive in protecting
intellectual property and the fact that they may be a supplier
doesn’t factor in to a decision to go after any competitor that
they may think violates its intellectual property,” said  Tim Bajarin , president of Creative Strategies Inc., a technology
consulting firm in Campbell, California.  Scrolling, Pinching, Zooming  Apple claims Samsung is infringing seven patents related to
the way the devices understand user gestures, including
selecting, scrolling, pinching and zooming, according to the
complaint, and three patents on the design, including the flat
black face of the iPhone and iPad.  Samsung also is accused of copying the on-screen icons,
as well as trademarks for certain icons, including green boxes
with phones or a sunflower for photos. Apple also claims the
packaging is copied.  “Instead of pursuing independent product development,
Samsung has chosen to slavishly copy Apple’s innovative
technology, distinctive user interfaces, and elegant and
distinctive product and packaging design, in violation of
Apple’s valuable intellectual property rights,” Apple said in
the complaint.  Apple is seeking a court order to block further use of its
patents and trademarks, along with cash compensation and
“reasonable funds for future corrective advertising.”  The case is the latest legal dispute between technology
companies over the growing market for smartphones. Apple is
involved in a patent fight with Motorola Mobility Holdings, as
is Microsoft Corp.  Apple lawyers are also arguing before a federal trade panel
in  Washington  that another Android user,  HTC Corp. (2498) , is
infringing other patents.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co., 11-cv-
01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(Oakland).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Giles  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net . 