-- 
Apple Store Designer’s Border Station Avoids Hysteria, Concrete

-- B y   J a m e s   S .   R u s s e l l
-- 
2011-04-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/apple-store-designer-s-border-station-avoids-hysteria-concrete.html
The $106 million border station in
Blaine,  Washington , seems a throwback to a less anxious, even
optimistic time.  The long canopy wings across a busy highway separating
Canada from the northwest corner of the continental U.S.  With immigration hysteria at a fever pitch, and a massive,
ineffectual wall growing along the U.S.-Mexico border, Peace
Arch Port of Entry, as the station is called, makes a quiet
statement.  Border stations are there to aid trade and tourism, while
keeping out illegal immigrants, criminals, terrorists and
agricultural pests.  That is why the  General Services Administration , which
constructs federal buildings, has 25 expanded border-crossing
facilities in the design stage or under construction.  Port-of-entry design must include surveillance cameras and
jail cells yet still capture something essentially American.  The design by the architectural firm  Bohlin Cywinski
Jackson  neither indulges in spectacle for its own sake nor
defers robotically to historical style.  Based in Wilkes-Barre,  Pennsylvania , the firm is best known
for designing crystalline, obsessively elegant  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
computer stores.  Peace Arch  Here in Blaine, principal Peter Bohlin has made most of the
essential paraphernalia of customs, immigration and border
security almost disappear. Yet he has successfully played up the
contrast between the artifice of the straight, politically
determined borderline and the sensuous landscape of green fir
trees and gray tide flats.  The key ingredients are the roadways that draw 1.4 million
autos annually into a curving dance with each other between the
Canadian and U.S. border stations. They slip around the white-
painted 1921 Peace Arch, a monument that commemorates the U.S.’s
long, close relationship with  Canada .  Approaching the U.S., the tree-lined freeway emerges from
trees, then dips to unveil Semiahmoo Bay out the passenger-side
window, which opens to the Georgia Strait separating the two
countries.  A border officer standing in a booth under the soaring
canopy admits you. A long, narrow, 34,000-square-foot metal-
louvered building, housing additional border-control functions,
extends the canopy inland.  Nice Screening  The Canada-bound roadway rises in a gentle curve as it
crosses the border building, opening to the water view, then
slices through the blade-edge roof of the structure as it heads
toward the Peace Arch. Few will notice another oval landscaped
roof, on the inland side, that screens the secondary-inspection
parking lot and much of the port building from view with
planting.  Bohlin lets water, the forested landscape edge and the
Peace Arch guide your movement across the border -- not parking,
driveways and buildings.  It’s fly-beneath-the-radar architecture, subtle enough that
you could miss it.  His delicate touch means wrong notes read jarringly. The
booth signage and the raised roadway are both aggressively
oversized -- thoughtlessly lifted from the highway engineers’
catalog at the insistence of bureaucrats.  Inside the port building, the tall secondary-inspection
lobby in blond wood and cool greys is a far cry from the common
low-ceilinged customs and immigration halls with endless lines
winding toward a menacing rank of border-officer cages.  High north-facing windows that look out on a fern-covered
slope shower the waiting lines with diffused light. A case
displays colorfully swirling art glass by Dale Chihuly.  Even the long desk lined by border officers looks
businesslike rather than intimidating.  Bohlin has methodically stripped away what’s unessential,
making a place that protects people while treating them with
dignity. Here, in a distant corner, he’s created a poetic
meeting of the continent’s western edge and the sea.  (James S. Russell writes on architecture for Muse, the arts
and culture section of Bloomberg News. Island Press will publish
his book, “The Agile City,” in May. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
James S. Russell in New York at 
 jamesrussell@earthlink.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 