-- 
Apple Asks Judge to Dismiss Claims Over Music Download Monopoly

-- B y   P a m e l a   M a c L e a n   a n d   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/apple-asks-judge-to-dismiss-lawsuit-alleging-itunes-downloading-monopoly.html
A federal judge was asked by  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  to dismiss a consumer antitrust lawsuit claiming the
company limited choice by linking iPod music downloading to its
iTunes music store.  Robert Mittelstaedt, an attorney for the Cupertino,
California-based company, yesterday told U.S. District Judge
James Ware in  San Jose ,  California , that blocking iPod music
downloads that used competitors’ software was intended to
improve downloading quality for iTunes customers.  Changes that Apple made in 2004, just days after Internet
music software company  RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK)  announced a technology
allowing songs from its online store to be played on iPods,
weren’t anticompetitive, he said.  “Apple’s view is that iPods work better when consumers use
the iTunes jukebox rather than third party software that can
cause corruption or other problems,” Mittelstaedt said at a
hearing.  Apple had cited 58 consumer downloading complaints as the
source of its decision to upgrade iPods to exclude other
companies’ downloads working with the hand-held devices. Ware
asked whether Apple had tried to confirm through scientific
tests whether other companies’ downloads were the true cause of
consumer complaints.  Mittelstaedt said the company had not done such tests.  ‘Battle of Experts’  Bonny Sweeney, a lawyer representing iTunes customers who
sued, said the plaintiffs could not locate any legacy software
that would allow them to conduct accurate tests, prompting Ware
to say that a trial may become a “battle of experts.”  Ware said he will rule by May on the request to dismiss the
case.  By March 2009, digital music files offered on iTunes were
sold without proprietary software, according to court records.  Apple co-founder and chief executive officer  Steve Jobs ,
ordered by a separate judge to answer questions in the case, met
with plaintiff attorneys for a deposition on April 12, Sweeney
said yesterday. She declined to comment further.  Jobs took a medical leave from the company starting Jan.
17. The CEO, who has battled a rare form of cancer, has taken
time off for medical reasons three times in the past seven
years.  Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, declined to comment
on pending litigation or on the Jobs deposition. The
RealNetworks media team didn’t respond to a phone call and
e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Apple iPod, iTunes  Antitrust Litigation , C05-
0037JW, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Pamela MacLean in U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California in  San Francisco ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  