-- 
Arsenal Is Left Feeling ‘Hard Done By’ as Liverpool Draw Checks Title Bid

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-04-18T01:06:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/arsenal-left-hard-done-by-as-liverpool-draw-checks-title-bid.html
Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger 
berated the match officials after a 1-1 draw with Liverpool left
his team six points behind Premier League leader  Manchester
United  with as many games remaining.  Wenger was incensed by referee Andre Marriner’s decision to
award Liverpool a penalty in the 12th minute of injury time when
Emmanuel Eboue fouled Lucas Leiva. Dirk Kuyt scored with the
last kick of the game after Robin Van Persie had put Arsenal
ahead from the spot four minutes earlier.  “I feel hard done by in the end because the time was over
by three minutes,” Wenger said after yesterday’s match at the
Emirates Stadium in London. “Lucas played in an intelligent
way. He stopped his run and the referee saw a penalty, but what
can you do about it?”  The league represents Arsenal’s last chance of silverware
this season after the Gunners were knocked out of the F.A. Cup
and the Champions League and lost to Birmingham in the League
Cup final. Arsenal last won a trophy in 2005.  Wenger clashed with Liverpool manager  Kenny Dalglish  after
Kuyt’s goal. He held his arms out to his side and approached
Dalglish, who brushed aside the Arsenal manager’s protests.  “It’s sad if that’s what’s going to be taken away from
today,” said Dalglish, who lost defenders  Jamie Carragher  and
Fabio Aurelio to injuries during the game and substituted
striker Andy Carroll as a precaution. Captain  Steven Gerrard  and
defenders  Daniel Agger  and  Glen Johnson  were also missing.  ‘Adversity’  “I don’t think there’s any team anywhere that would show
the same attitude and commitment out there,” Dalglish said.
“They went through a wee bit of adversity.”  The game was preceded by a minute’s silence in memory of
former Arsenal director Danny Fiszman, who died April 13, two
days after selling his 16 percent holding in the club to Stan Kroenke. U.S. investor Kroenke, who’s made a buyout offer for
the remaining shares in the 13-time English champion, was among
the 60,029 spectators.  Liverpool hadn’t won at Arsenal for more than a decade and
had failed to beat the Gunners in their previous seven meetings.  The Reds’ cause wasn’t helped when Aurelio limped off. His
replacement Jack Robinson, 17, had only made one substitute
appearance, while right-back  John Flanagan , 18, was starting for
the second time after playing in the 3-0 win over  Manchester
City  on April 11.  Arsenal failed to capitalize on the inexperienced defense
even though it controlled possession. Eboue’s scuffed effort in
the 44th minute was his team’s best chance in the first half.  The second period followed a similar pattern. Van Persie
missed an opening when he shot straight at goalkeeper  Jose Reina 
from Samir Nasri’s flick in the 85th minute.  Dalglish Delight  Wenger said Liverpool had “basically only defended,”
adopting the tactic of most visiting Premier League teams to the
Emirates Stadium.  “It’s good if we are frustrating opposition managers,”
Dalglish said. “We’d take that every day of the week.”  The match was stopped for about eight minutes when
Carragher clashed heads with Flanagan and had to be carried off.
He returned to the sidelines to watch the closing stages.  Van Persie  looked to have given Arsenal all three points
when he converted a 98th-minute penalty after Jay Spearing
fouled Cesc Fabregas in the area. Wenger pumped his fists to
celebrate the goal.  With time running out, Liverpool launched a final attack
and got the chance to tie the game when Eboue’s challenge from
behind on Lucas was deemed a foul by Marriner.  ‘Give Everything’  Arsenal next visits north London rival Tottenham in two
days, 24 hours after Manchester United travels to Newcastle.
Wenger refused to concede his team’s title challenge was over.  “We will have to give everything until the last,” he
said.  By winning the league, Manchester United would claim a
record 19th English title, moving one ahead of Liverpool.  “We only look after ourselves,” said Dalglish, who
managed Liverpool to its last league title in 1990. “If anybody
gets an advantage from our results then so be it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Emirates Stadium via the  London  newsroom
at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  