-- 
Aussie Rides Commodity Boom as Credit Suisse Joins RBS in Seeing 4% Gains

-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-04-18T16:20:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/aussie-rides-commodity-boom-as-credit-suisse-joins-rbs-in-seeing-6-gains.html
From coal to  iron ore , soaring
commodity prices are paving the way for the Australian dollar to
rebound from its worst first quarter in five years.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc says the currency may jump
about 4 percent against the dollar by the end of September after
the Standard & Poor’s GSCI Index of 24 commodities climbed
three-straight quarters. Credit Suisse Group AG predicts it will
rise that amount over a year. Futures traders boosted bets this
month on a stronger currency to the highest since at least 1993.  The so-called Aussie may strengthen because the central
bank will increase interest rates, already the highest in the
developed world, while the  Federal Reserve  keeps borrowing costs
at record lows, according to surveys of economists by Bloomberg.
Demand from China for Australian raw materials, which account
for about 60 percent of exports, may be augmented by Japan
rebuilding from last month’s earthquake and tsunami that caused
an estimated $300 billion in damage.  “The commodity story that is driving  Australia , not just
now but over the last few years, will continue,” said  Ray Farris , chief strategist for Asia-Pacific fixed income and
global head of foreign-exchange strategy at Credit Suisse in
 Singapore . “The fundamental picture for the Aussie over the
next 12 months is very, very good.”  Analyst Estimates  Australia’s dollar will probably strengthen compared with
the U.S. currency, reaching $1.10 in a year, from $1.0568 last
week, Farris said. It fell 1.8 percent in the three months
through March, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted
Indexes. That was the worst start to a year since 2006, when it
declined 2.3 percent.  Analysts are boosting estimates for the Aussie even as a
measure of the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development signals the currency is 38 percent too strong
versus the dollar. It has climbed 50 percent since 2008,
reaching $1.0584 on April 8, the highest level since it was
allowed to trade freely in 1983.  Strategists surveyed by Bloomberg News have lifted fourth-
quarter forecasts against the  U.S. dollar  9.9 percent since
September to the most on record. The Aussie surged 14 percent
last year to $1.0233. It was at $1.0498 as of 12:18 p.m. in  New
York  today.  Aussie Vulnerable  Money is flooding into Australia because the nation
produces about 20 percent of the world’s iron ore, 7 percent of
its liquefied natural gas and 6 percent of its gold. Ore climbed
4.3 percent in the past year, while coal-export prices from
Newcastle, Australia, a benchmark for  Asia , jumped 25 percent in
the period, according to Petersfield, England-based IHS
McCloskey. Gold advanced to a record for a third day today,
trading at $1,488.68 an ounce.  That makes the Australian dollar vulnerable to a drop in
raw-material prices.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ended a recommendation that
investors buy a basket of commodities including crude oil,
copper, cotton and platinum, saying on April 11 that the risk of
a price decline outweighed the potential for more gains. The
basket rose 25 percent since the trade was started on Dec. 1,
the New York-based bank said.  “The momentum is in favor of the Aussie but I think we
should also recognize that the air is getting pretty thin up
here,” said  Daragh Maher , deputy head of foreign-exchange
strategy at Credit Agricole Corporate & Investment Bank in
 London . “You’ve got a market that’s pretty much positioned one
way, so people will get increasingly nervous about the risks
that you get a substantial retracement.”  ‘Crowded Trade’  Wagers by futures traders on additional gains have boosted
the chances of a decline, according to  Shaun Osborne , chief
currency strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities
unit in Toronto.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance compared with those on a
drop was 90,651 on April 12, compared with 90,938 on April 5,
the most since Bloomberg began tracking the data.  “When the market becomes too heavily positioned one way
things can unwind very quickly,” said Osborne, who forecasts
the currency will end the year at 96 U.S. cents.  While Treasurer Wayne Swan said on April 12 the Aussie’s
strength was a burden for parts of the economy, the currency is
becoming a favorite for investors because of the nation’s
relatively high  interest rates  and prospects for economic
growth.  Commodity Prices  Gross domestic product will increase by 2.6 percent this
year and 3.95 percent in 2012, according to the median of eight
economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with 3
percent and 3.1 percent in the U.S., and 1.7 percent this year
and next in the euro region, separate surveys show.  The S&P GSCI jumped 18 percent this year, adding to an 81
percent surge in the past two years. Australia’s benchmark stock
index, the S&P/ASX 200 Index, increased 2.3 percent this year,
compared with a 0.7 percent gain in the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  “We are seeing commodity prices rise once again, so that
should also support the Aussie dollar,” said  Bilal Hafeez ,
London-based head of foreign-exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank
AG, who forecast it may rise to $1.08.  Australia’s key rate of 4.75 percent compares with a range
of zero to 0.1 percent in  Japan  and zero to 0.25 percent in the
U.S. The  Reserve Bank  of Australia raised borrowing costs seven
times since October 2009. Benchmark rates exceed those in the
euro area by 3.5 percentage points and 4.25 percentage points
for Britain.  Relative Rates  The premium investors get from holding Australian two-year
government debt instead of Treasuries was 4.33 percentage points
on April 15, almost double the average since 2000.  While the  European Central Bank  raised its key rate this
month by a quarter-percentage-point to 1.25 percent, the
difference with Australia will remain unchanged this year,
surveys shows. The Fed won’t raise borrowing costs until the
first quarter, according to the median of 67 economist forecasts
compiled by Bloomberg.  Aussie gains may also be fueled by commodity customers
boosting orders.  China  accounts for 25 percent of Australia’s
exports, with Asia taking more than 70 percent, RBA Governor
Glenn Stevens said in a speech in New York on April 13. Asia
bought about 50 percent of Australian exports as recently as
2003, he said.  Japan Reconstruction  China increased banks’ reserve requirements yesterday for
the fourth time this year after inflation accelerated to 5.4
percent in March, more than the 2011 target of 4 percent set by
Premier  Wen Jiabao . Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
two days ago that monetary tightening will continue for “some
time” and he sees no “absolute” limit on how high reserve
requirements can go.  Japan, the second-biggest buyer of the South Pacific
nation’s exports, increased purchases 14 percent last year to
A$43.6 billion ($46 billion). The country accounted for about 19
percent of Australia’s overseas sales in 2010, according to
Australian Bureau of Statistics data.  Copper, iron ore and beef are likely to benefit from rising
demand in Japan as the country recovers from its biggest
earthquake on record, analysts at National Australia Bank Ltd.
and Rabobank Australia Ltd. said this month. The 9-magnitude
earthquake and deadly tsunami on March 11 left more than 28,000
dead or missing and caused radiation leaks at a nuclear plant.  Greg Gibbs, a strategist at Royal Bank of  Scotland  in
Sydney, expects the currency to peak at $1.10 by the end of the
third quarter. As a result, the Aussie will be buoyed by
“enormous investment plans for the next several years related
to ongoing confidence in the commodities market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
{Lukanyo Mnyanda} in Edinburgh News at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
{Liz McCormick} in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  