-- 
New Zealand Dollar Declines for Second Day on U.S., European Debt Concern

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-19T18:07:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/australian-n-z-dollars-weaken-for-second-day-on-sovereign-debt-concerns.html
The  New Zealand dollar  weakened for
a second day versus the greenback as a slide in Asian stocks and
concern in Europe and the U.S. about debt levels damped demand
for higher-yielding assets.  Australia’s currency fell for a fourth day against the yen
after  Standard & Poor’s  cut the U.S. long-term credit outlook to
“negative” yesterday, citing a growing debt burden. The two
South Pacific currencies also dropped against most of their
major counterparts after Greece’s bond yields surged.  “The U.S. and Europe aren’t looking good fiscally,” said
Osao Iizuka, head of foreign-exchange trading in Tokyo at
Sumitomo Trust & Banking co., a unit of  Japan ’s third-largest
banking group. “Risk aversion may cause selling of
high-yielding currencies.”  New Zealand ’s dollar fell 0.4 percent to 78.81 U.S. cents
at 2 p.m. in  New York , from 79.10 yesterday. The kiwi slid 0.6
percent to 64.98 yen. Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0526,
compared with $1.0509, after falling as much as 0.6 percent. The
Aussie depreciated 0.1 percent to 86.78 yen.  Greece’s two-year yield surged to above 20 percent, the
highest borrowing cost among developed nations. Otto Fricke, the
parliamentary budget spokesman for German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Free Democratic Party coalition partner, said yesterday
Greece may not be able to avoid restructuring its debt before
the end of summer.  “The European debt crisis is the number one factor, and
that’s creating an increased degree of  risk aversion ,” said
Greg Gibbs, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc in Sydney. “That’s really the main factor
contributing to the weaker Aussie at the moment.”  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and Japan, attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ron Harui in Singapore at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  