-- 
Austrian Banks, IRS Probe, Solvency II Study, SMBC Nikko, BofA: Compliance

-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 
2011-04-18T12:04:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/austrian-banks-irs-probes-solvency-ii-study-bofa-compliance.html
Austrian supervisors won’t impose a
capital surcharge on the country’s biggest lenders such as  Erste
Group Bank AG (EBS)  and  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  before rules
for “too-big-to-fail” banks are agreed internationally.  There’s no need for the Alpine nation to take action before
the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision or the European Union
have decided how to deal with so-called systemically important
financial institutions, or SIFIs, the co-chairman of Austria’s
financial supervisor FMA told journalists April 14.  Governments and regulators are trying to avoid a repeat of
the turmoil in financial markets that followed the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and led to taxpayer-funded
bailouts of lenders across the world. Switzerland has proposed a
surcharge for its two largest banks, UBS AG and  Credit Suisse
Group AG. (CSGN)  Mario Draghi, Italy’s central bank governor, has told
Italian banks to boost reserves and a U.K. panel last week
sought tougher capital rules for the country’s biggest lenders.  Austrian banks’ total assets make up 4.2 times the
country’s gross domestic product, exceeding the euro area
average of 2.8 times GDP, mostly because of their business in
eastern  Europe .  Separately, Oesterreiche Volksbanken AG,  Austria ’s fourth-
biggest lender, said its largest shareholders will buy back 300
million euros ($433 million) of capital injected by the state.  The purchase will boost the 58 percent stake held by 62
local and regional cooperative banks when the capital is later
converted into common stock, said Walter Groeblinger, a
spokesman for the Vienna-based lender.  Other investors include Germany’s DZ Bank with a 25 percent
holding, Munich Re with a 10 percent stake and Raiffeisen
Zentralbank Oesterreich AG with 6 percent.  Volksbanken was among the Austrian banks hit hardest by the
financial crisis and the state injected 1 billion euros of the
non-voting participation capital in 2009 to help cover losses
after nationalizing the lender’s Kommunalkredit unit.
Volksbanken, which is also selling its eastern European business
to raise capital, plans to repay another 300 million euros by
2014 and the remaining 400 million euros by 2018.  Compliance Policy  Solvency II Rules on Real-Estate Assets ‘Too High,’ Study Shows  Capital requirements for European insurers’ real estate
investments under proposed new Solvency II rules are “too
high,” according to a study carried out  Investment Property
Databank  and backed by Germany’s BVI association of investment
and asset management.  The study found a “stress factor” of 15 percent, instead
of the proposed 25 percent, would be sufficient to calculate the
amount of capital required to back real-estate assets held by
insurers, BVI said in an e-mailed statement April 15.  Bundesbank Report Spotlights Potential Deficiencies in ESM Terms  Terms for the future European Stability Mechanism agreed on
by European leaders in March have potential deficiencies and
require tightening before they can be fully accepted by member
states, according to the Bundesbank, whose findings will likely
support skeptics in Germany.  The agreements, forged by the European Council at a March
24-25 summit, contain “imprecise” rules on voting aid for debt
plagued states from 2013 and potentially “contradictory” rules
on the roles of private creditors, said the central bank in its
latest monthly  report  today.  The Bundesbank report gives ammunition to German lawmakers
demanding stricter rules to overcome the euro debt crisis. Some
members of Chancellor Angela Merkel’s Free Democratic Party
coalition partner want euro-area countries to leave the currency
union if they don’t adhere to German-style fiscal discipline.  The Bundesbank comments come amid concern that Greece will
have to restructure its debt, sending the euro to its biggest
decline in more than a month against the dollar.  For more, click here.  Compliance Action  IRS Criminal Probes Rise on UBS Disclosures: Chart of the Day  The IRS has increased its criminal investigations by more
than 27 percent since 2008, the year a Senate committee revealed
widespread tax evasion by U.S. residents with Swiss bank
accounts.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the number of IRS investigations
for crimes such as tax evasion that involve legally earned
income increased to 1,948 last year from 1,531 in 2008.  The  Senate’s Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations 
conducted a series of high-profile investigations of tax haven
banks in July 2008, which revealed the extent of tax evasion by
U.S. residents with hidden Swiss bank accounts. Zurich-based  UBS
AG (UBSN)  admitted in February 2009 that it had helped U.S. taxpayers
hide their accounts and agreed to  turn over information  on
thousands of U.S. residents with Swiss bank accounts.  That disclosure led the IRS to beef up its investigations
into tax crimes. IRS Commissioner Douglas H. Shulman said the
IRS expects to receive the names of more than 7,500 U.S.
citizens with UBS accounts. As the chart shows, those convicted
of tax crimes risk jail time. The IRS has channeled its
enforcement resources toward detecting tax evasion among the
wealthiest taxpayers.  Banco Industrial de Venezuela Fined by U.S. Regulators  The Board of Governors of the  Federal Reserve  System and
two U.S. state regulators said they have issued a cease and
desist order and $1.8 million in fines against Caracas-based
Banco Industrial de Venezuela CA and its agencies in  New York 
and Miami.  The order “is designed to address deficiencies revealed in
repeated examinations of the agencies by the Federal Reserve”
and two state supervisors, the Florida Office of Financial
Regulation and the  New York State Banking Department , according
to a statement April 15. The order also addresses the bank’s
“lack of audited financial statements,” according to the
statement.  The order restricts the bank’s U.S. entities from making
new loans or taking on new customers without the approval of its
U.S. banking supervisors, the statement said.  SMBC Nikko Securities Defrauded Clients, Japan Regulator Says  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a brokerage unit of  Sumitomo
Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , was found to have fraudulently
taken money from clients, Japan’s  Financial Services Agency  said
April 15 in a statement on its website.  The regulator ordered the brokerage to submit a business
improvement plan by May 13, the statement said.  Police were investigating one of the company’s employees on
suspicion of taking as much as 880 million yen from 16 clients
after guaranteeing returns on fake investments, the company said
in a statement on April 8.  Crest Nicholson, ISG Pearce Win 82% Reduction of U.K. Fines  Britain’s antitrust regulator lost another round of appeals
in its price-fixing case against U.K. builders after a court cut
by 82 percent its fines against Crest Nicholson Plc and a former
subsidiary, ISG Pearce Ltd.  The  Office of Fair Trading  was “wrong in principle” and
out of step with its own guidelines when it fined the companies
a total of 5.19 million pounds ($8.5 million) for joining a
cartel to drive up prices, the  Competition Appeal Tribunal  ruled
April 15 in  London . The fine was reduced to 950,000 pounds. The
tribunal described the penalty as “disproportionate and
excessive.”  The regulator in 2009 levied fines totaling 129.5 million
pounds against 103 builders, including  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY)  and
 Carillion Plc (CLLN) , the U.K.’s two biggest, for rigging bids from
2000 to 2006. Twenty-five companies appealed, including  Kier
Group Plc (KIE) , whose penalty of 17.9 million pounds was reduced to
1.7 million pounds.  “We will consider these judgments in detail, alongside
those in all other construction appeals, and will then decide
whether to appeal to the Court of Appeal,” OFT spokesman Frank
Shepherd said April 15 in a statement.  China  Cuts 2011 Short-Term Foreign Debt Quota to Curb Inflow  China’s  State Administration of Foreign Exchange  cut its
outstanding short-term foreign debt quota for the year to help
curb inflows of so-called hot money.  The reduction will “help maintain balance in international
payments and boost liquidity management,” SAFE said in a
statement on its website April 15.  The quota for some Chinese banks will be reduced to $10.2
billion for the year starting from April 1, the currency
regulator said. It set the quota for some foreign banks at $14.6
billion, according to the statement.  King Told by Dale Staff Shortage Forces Cutback in BOE Research  Bank of England Chief Economist  Spencer Dale  has told
Governor Mervyn King that “significant” staff shortages will
force him to cut back on research for policy makers during the
next six months.  The bank’s Monetary Analysis department will “reduce the
number of notes written” for the  Monetary Policy Committee ,
Dale said in a March 25 memo seen by Bloomberg News. “We hope
not to have to turn down direct requests” from panel members,
he said. A Bank of England spokesman declined to comment.  The remarks suggest policy makers may need to rely on fewer
resources to inform decisions at a time when the panel is split
four ways on  interest rates  and is entering a quarterly forecast
round to prepare for the monthly meeting on May 5. King has
imposed a two-year pay freeze on staff, raising the prospect of
defections elsewhere in London’s finance industry.  Dale said his department lacks staff because managers
haven’t filled vacancies, some economists have transferred
elsewhere in the bank, and some have resigned. He projects a 9
percent shortfall in the first half of this year. A lack of
staff may persist until new graduate and doctorate-level
employees start work in the fall.  For more, click here.  Courts  Matthew Kluger Granted $1 Million Bail in Insider-Trade Case  Matthew Kluger, the lawyer charged with passing merger-and-
acquisition tips stolen from four law firms in a $34 million
insider trading scheme, was granted $1 million bail April 15 in
federal court in Newark, New Jersey.  Kluger was arrested April 6 at his home in Oakton,
Virginia, and charged with passing inside information to a
middleman who gave it to stock trader Garrett D. Bauer in a
scheme spanning 17 years. The middleman, Kenneth T. Robinson,
pleaded guilty April 11 and is helping prosecutors investigate
the case.  Interviews  Klibaner Expects More China Measures to Cool Land Prices  Michael Klibaner , head of China research at Jones Lang
LaSalle Inc., the world’s second-biggest publicly traded
commercial-property broker, talked about China’s real estate
market.  Average land prices in major Chinese cities monitored by
the government were up 8.5 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the  Land and Resources Ministry  said April 16. The
increase in prices has slowed as government measures to cool
speculation kick in, according to the ministry. Klibaner spoke
in Hong Kong with Susan Li on Bloomberg Television’s “First
Up.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  U.K.’s Michael Ellam to Chair EU Financial Services Committee  Michael Ellam, managing director of the  U.K. Treasury ’s
international and finance directorate, has been appointed
chairman of the European Union’s financial services regulation
committee.  Ellam will steer the work of the Brussels-based panel ahead
of meetings of the EU’s 27 finance ministers while retaining his
role at the Treasury in London, two U.K. government officials
said yesterday. Another U.K. official, Verena Ross, director of
the Financial Services Authority’s international division, was
appointed director of the  European Securities and Markets
Authority , the two officials told reporters in  Washington . The
officials asked not to be identified by name, citing government
policy.  The appointments will give the U.K. a greater say in the
shaping of EU financial regulation after losing out to France
when Michel Barnier took over as EU Financial Services
Commissioner last year.  BofA Hires Ex-SEC Enforcement Chief Lynch for New Position  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  hired Gary Lynch, formerly a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission enforcement director and
 Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s legal chief, as it seeks to resolve disputes
with regulators over soured mortgages.  Lynch, reporting directly to Chief Executive Officer Brian
T. Moynihan, will fill a new position overseeing legal and
compliance operations and regulatory relations, Charlotte, North
Carolina-based Bank of America said April 15 in a  statement .  Moynihan, 51, is reshaping management as the company
struggles to boost profit while dealing with lawsuits and
investigations tied to troubled loans from the housing boom.  For more, click here.  South African Bank Regulator Kruger to Take Early Retirement  Errol Kruger, the registrar of South African banks, will
take early retirement from July 31 after 34 years of service at
the country’s central bank, the South African Reserve Bank said
on its website April 15.  The search for Kruger’s replacement will start immediately,
the Pretoria-based central bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 