-- 
Azerbaijan Seeks to Hold Output at 1.1 Million Barrels a Day

-- B y   Z u l f u g a r   A g a y e v
-- 
2011-04-18T10:55:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/azerbaijan-seeks-to-hold-output-at-1-1-million-barrels-a-day.html
Azerbaijan  plans to keep the volume
of oil output at 1.1 million barrels a day to prevent a sharp
decline in production, a senior energy official said today.  “We can extract 60 million to 70 million tons of oil, but
if we do that, production would sharply decline in the future,”
Khoshbakht Yusifzade, first vice president of the State Oil Co.
of Azerbaijan, told reporters in the capital, Baku. “Therefore,
50 million to 55 million tons is planned to maintain the level
of output.” Azerbaijan has 2 billion tons of proven oil
reserves, he said.  Oil output by the state energy company, known as Socar, has
declined in recent months because it’s exploiting old wells.  “We do not have new deposits of oil,” he said. “New
wells are being developed by foreign companies.”  First natural gas is expected in 2017 from the deepwater
section of the offshore Azeri-Chirag-Guneshli field, which is
being jointly developed with BP Plc, Yusifzade said. The
deepwater field is believed to contain 200 billion to 250
billion cubic meters of gas.  Yusifazde also said that 1.5 million to 2 million cubic
meters of gas a day is expected to be extracted from the newly
discovered offshore deposit, Umid. A decision on the
exploitation of the deposit will be made after work on a second
exploration well is completed by the end of the year, he said.  Another deposit in the Caspian, Babek, may contain 400
billion cubic meters of gas and 80 million tons of condensate,
he said.  By the end of the year, Socar plans to increase the number
of its filling stations in neighboring  Georgia  to 95 from 60,
Yusifzade said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zulfugar Agayev in Baku at 
 zagayev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  