-- 
Bale Voted England's Player of the Year by Peers, Wilshere Best Youngster

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-04-18T02:38:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bale-voted-england-s-player-of-the-year-by-peers-wilshere-best-youngster.html
Gareth Bale  was voted England’s
player of the year by his peers after helping Tottenham reach
the Champions League soccer quarterfinals and challenge for
another top-four finish in the Premier League.  Bale, who’s scored 11 goals in 36 games for Spurs this
season, becomes the fourth Welshman to win the Professional
Footballers’ Association award after Ian Rush, Mark Hughes and
Ryan Giggs. The young player of the year accolade went to
Arsenal’s  Jack Wilshere .  Bale, 21, beat fellow nominees  Charlie Adam , Samir Nasri,
Scott Parker, Rafael Van der Vaart, Carlos Tevez and  Nemanja Vidic  to claim the prize at a ceremony at the Grosvenor House
Hotel in  London  last night.  “It’s the most coveted individual award in football,”
Bale said in comments on the PFA’s  website . “It is the award
players want to win the most.”  Bale’s performances this season, including a hat trick
against Inter Milan in the Champions League, have led to the
left-sided attacker being linked with a move to clubs including
Inter, Barcelona and Real Madrid. He signed a new 4 1/2-year
contract with Tottenham last month.  Bale also was nominated for the young player of the year
award, which went to Wilshere after the 19-year-old midfielder
secured a place in Arsenal’s first team and made his full
international debut for  England .  “It is my first full season and it’s a massive award,
especially as it’s been voted for by my fellow professionals,”
Wilshere said. “Arsenal have got a great reputation for
bringing young players through, and they keep proving it.”  Bale and Wilshere made the Premier League team of the year,
which also featured four players from Manchester United, two
more from Arsenal, two from Manchester City and Chelsea’s Ashley Cole.  PREMIER LEAGUE TEAM OF THE YEAR: Edwin Van Der Sar
(Manchester United), Bacary Sagna (Arsenal), Ashley Cole
(Chelsea), Nemanja Vidic (Manchester United), Vincent Kompany
(Manchester City), Nani (Manchester United), Samir Nasri
(Arsenal), Jack Wilshere (Arsenal), Gareth Bale (Tottenham),
Carlos Tevez (Manchester City), Dimitar Berbatov ( Manchester
United ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  