-- 
Kissinger's ‘Basket Case’ Bangladesh Targets 8% Growth

-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 
2011-04-18T04:40:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bangladesh-targets-record-8-growth-within-three-years.html
Bangladesh , once dubbed the world’s
“basket case” by former U.S. Secretary of State  Henry Kissinger , may boost growth to a record 8 percent within three
years, according to the governor of the nation’s central bank.  “Bangladesh is an unsung hero,” Atiur Rahman said in an
interview in his office in Dhaka. “If we could get some
additional help in terms of infrastructure development and
connectivity, we will do far better. We are in a buoyant mood.”  The South Asian nation, where more than half of the 166
million people don’t have access to electricity, plans to spend
$10 billion, or 11 percent of its gross domestic product, in a
decade to increase power capacity and leverage on cheap labor
costs to attract investment from abroad. Bangladesh, often
ravaged by cyclones and rocked by political unrest, boasts lower
labor costs than India and  China , drawing companies such as
 General Electric Co. (GE)  and International Business Machines Corp.  Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina is banking on the cost
advantage and energy projects to spur the economy, which
expanded 5.8 percent in the year ended June 30. The paucity of
power slows growth by one percentage point every year, according
to the central bank.  “The only thing that is constraining is power,” said
Rahman, speaking in his office in Dhaka’s  Motijheel  business
district, where cycle rickshaws vie for road space with second-
hand Mitsubishi Pajeoros. “We were a bit late but we have
started addressing this infrastructural issue.”  $1.25 a Day  Per capita  power consumption in Bangladesh is 144 kilowatt
hour per capita, according to the  World Bank . That lags war-
ravaged Ivory Coast, which consumes 178 kilowatt hour per capita.
The  Asian Development Bank  estimates more than half Bangladesh’s
population live on less than $1.25 a day.  The government plans to attract companies from overseas to
build infrastructure and boost investment to 30 percent of gross
domestic product annually from 24 percent, and has set up a $700
million fund for building roads, ports and  power plants ,
according to Finance Minister Abul Maal Abdul Muhith.  “Energy is the Achilles heel of this country,” Harvard-
educated Muhith, 77, said in an interview at his office in Dhaka,
where authorities resort to rolling blackouts. “We should be
over the hump in the next year when more power will be
available.”  Help is also at hand from Asian neighbors. India’s  NTPC
Ltd. (NATP) , the region’s biggest power generator by value, plans to
invest as much as 140 billion rupees ($3.2 billion) to build two
plants in Bangladesh. Malaysia’s Genting Bhd. may also bid to
build power plants, the  Daily Star  reported last year.  Behind Burundi  “Bangladesh’s rating could move up if sustained increases
in economic growth were to be supported by infrastructure
improvements,” Moody’s Investor Service said in a statement
today keeping its outlook “stable.” Bangladesh is rated Ba3,
the third non-investment grade rating.  Bangladesh, which has seen three major coups and two dozen
smaller rebellions since the nation gained independence from
 Pakistan  in 1971, ranks 130 out of 139 countries for its network
of roads, power and ports, behind East Timor and Burundi,
according to the  World Economic Forum ’s  Global Competitiveness
Report  2010.  The country, which shares a 4,023 kilometer border with
 India , has an installed  capacity  of 6,760 megawatts of power.
That compares with 171,926 megawatts of capacity in India. China
added 91,270 megawatts of capability last year, according to the
China Electricity Council.  Hasina’s government is setting up small power plants to run
diesel and furnace oil to add about 1,300 megawatts of power
this year, according to the Dhaka-based independent think-tank
Centre for Policy Dialogue.  Power Outages  Until the projects start generating electricity the
government has stopped giving new power connections, said
Mustafa Mujeri, director general of the Bangladesh Institute of
Development Studies. “The situation needs to be fixed soon
otherwise foreign investors may go to alternate countries.”  Bangladesh’s garment exports,  Asia ’s second-largest,
account for 75 percent of the nation’s total and are the
country’s biggest foreign-exchange earner. Still, manufacturers
complain that the power outages hold them back.  “We are struggling due to the power shortage and the cost
of production is getting higher,” said Shafiul Islam, president
of the Bangladesh Garment Manufacturers & Exporters Association,
whose members run diesel generators to ensure supply. “Our
profit margin has gone down.”  Even so, the government’s pledge to provide uninterrupted
electricity and cheap labor costs prompted  Gerry Weber
International AG (GWI1) ,  Germany ’s second-largest maker of women’s
clothing, to move production from China to countries such as
Bangladesh, Chief Executive Officer Gerhard Weber said in a Dec.
7 interview. Similarly, Florida-based women’s clothier  Chico’s
FAS Inc. (CHS)  has permanently moved some sourcing into Bangladesh, it
said last month.  Monthly Pay  “There are very few places in the world, if any, which are
as cheap for light manufacturing,” said Mark Matthews, a
strategist at Macquarie Group Ltd. “What’s absolutely critical
is infrastructure and unfortunately it just has not happened at
the pace as it should.”  Average monthly pay in 2009 for workers in Dhaka was $47
compared with $235 in Shenzhen, $100 in Hanoi and $888 in Taipei,
according to data compiled by the Japan External Trade
Organization.  “From Kissinger’s basket case, Bangladesh has come a very,
very long way,” said Sanjay Kathuria, Dhaka-based country
economist at the World Bank. “Despite all the natural
calamities and political turbulence in recent years, growth over
the last decade has averaged around 6 percent.”  ‘Factory for the World’  Bangladesh in 2005 was included in a list of 11  developing
countries  that according to Goldman Sachs Group Inc. analysts,
have the greatest potential to emulate the long-term economic
success expected from China, India,  Brazil  and  Russia . JPMorgan
Chase & Co. named Bangladesh one of the “Frontier Five”
markets worth investigating in an April 2007 note, along with
Kazakhstan, Kenya, Nigeria and  Vietnam .  “Bangladesh could be the factory for the world,” said
Khalid Quadir, chief executive officer of Brummer & Partners
Asset Management (Bangladesh) Ltd. That’s “if the government
addresses some of the bottlenecks and can facilitate some of the
solutions in a speedy manner.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Unni Krishnan at   ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  