-- 
Banks May Avoid Debt-Rating Cuts Amid ‘Negative’ U.S. Outlook, Blitz Says

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e   a n d   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 
2011-04-18T18:25:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/banks-may-avoid-debt-rating-cuts-amid-negative-u-s-outlook-blitz-says.html
Standard & Poor’s decision to put a
“negative” outlook on the U.S.’s long-term AAA credit rating
may help spur lawmakers to tackle U.S. spending and spare banks
cuts to their own ratings, said Steven Blitz, a senior economist
at ITG Investment Research Inc.  The cost to protect against a default by U.S. banks jumped
after S&P said today there is at least a one-in-three chance it
will lower the country’s rating in the next two years. The firm
cited a “material risk” that the nation’s leaders will fail to
deal with rising budget deficits and debt.  “The downgrade’s not going to occur anyway,” Blitz said
in an interview. “This is just a bit of a tactic to get
everyone negotiating in good faith as opposed to turning into a
hostage negotiation.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. lender, led the 24-
company KBW Bank Index lower as the broader stock market
slumped. If the U.S. rating were lowered, it would hurt banks’
own creditworthiness, because they rely on Treasuries to manage
their balance sheets and secure loans, and they wouldn’t easily
find a replacement, Blitz said.  “If Treasury debt were downgraded, it would downgrade all
U.S. banks and most foreign ones as well,” he wrote in an e-
mail. “After all, this is the liquid asset most hold, most are
leveraged against, and there is no alternative  capital market  in
which to diversify that is anywhere near deep enough.”  ‘Fear Factor’  ITG, based in New York, is a brokerage firm and technology
company operating in the U.S.,  Canada ,  Europe  and  Asia .  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  fell 1.4 percent to 50.41 at 2:18 p.m.
in New York, the largest drop in a month and the eighth
consecutive day of decline.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and M&T Bank Corp.,
which both reported first-quarter earnings that beat analysts’
estimates today, were the only companies in the index to climb.  “We believe there is a material risk that U.S. policy
makers might not reach an agreement on how to address medium-
and long-term budgetary challenges by 2013,” New York-based S&P
said in a statement. The Treasury said S&P’s outlook
“underestimates” U.S. leadership.  “It brings back the fear factor related to the financials,
and the market has to sift through it to see what should stick
and what’s really not going to have that big of an impact,”
said  Marty Mosby , a Memphis, Tennessee-based bank analyst for
Guggenheim Securities. “The more fundamental improvement on the
balance sheet is what eventually matters.”  Credit-Default Swaps  The cost to protect Bank of America’s debt from default for
five years climbed to the highest level in a month. The
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based firm’s credit-default swaps,
which investors use to hedge against losses on its debt or to
speculate on creditworthiness, increased 7.2 basis points to
140.4 basis points as of 12:31 p.m. in New York, according to
data provider CMA.  Contracts on  Morgan Stanley (MS)  climbed 7.7 basis points to
149.3 and those on  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  increased 5.8 basis
points to 80.1, the data show. Swaps on  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
added 6.4 basis points to 121.8, according to CMA, which is
owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in
the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps, which typically climb as investor
confidence deteriorates and fall as it improves, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Debt Ceiling  Republicans tied the outlook change to the current fight
over when and how to raise the debt ceiling. The Treasury says
the $14.29 trillion limit will be reached no later than May 16,
at which point the department will turn to emergency measures
that provide borrowing room through about July 8.  Under President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal year 2012 budget,
released in February, the total debt subject to the ceiling
would be $20.8 trillion in 2016. The plan  House Republicans 
approved April 15, written by Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , would need a debt ceiling of at least $19.5 trillion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  “We’re glad we’re in 100-plus countries to start with
because there is a level of diversification that goes with
that,” Citigroup Chief Executive Officer Vikram Pandit said
today on a conference call to discuss earnings, after S&P’s
announcement. “I’d also tell you I have full confidence in our
administrative and legislative policies to get our country to
the right place.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 