-- 
OGX Plunges as Oil-Resource Report Misses Analyst Estimates

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 
2011-04-18T21:05:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/batista-s-ogx-plunges-as-oil-resource-report-misses-analyst-estimates.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA
plunged the most in more than two years, wiping out $6.9 billion
in market value, after it reported crude resources that missed
analysts’ estimates.  OGX, the oil-exploration company controlled by billionaire
 Eike Batista , fell 3.39 reais, or 17 percent, to 16.26 reais in
Sao Paulo trading, the most since September 2008. Deutsche Bank
AG, Banco BTG Pactual SA, Banco Santander SA and Citigroup Inc.
cut OGX to “hold” from “buy” today.  OGX reported April 15 it had contingent resources of 3
billion barrels of oil equivalent and prospective resources of
6.5 billion barrels. BTG analysts led by Gustavo Gattass said in
a report they expected OGX to boost contingent resources to
about 4 billion barrels, while Merrill Lynch analysts led by
Frank McGann said the estimate came in “at the low end” of
their expectations.  “OGX is a company that depends on expectations; it has no
production right now, so anything that raises doubts about the
future of the company hurts the stock,” Mirela Rappaport, who
helps manage about 160 million reais ($100 million) at
Investport, said by telephone from  Sao Paulo . “This may be an
excuse to leave the Brazilian market. The market is weak for oil
and gas and weak for  Brazil .”  Petrobras Reserves  Rio de Janeiro-based OGX, which has no output or proved oil
reserves, plans to start output in the third quarter from
Brazil’s offshore Campos Basin. Petroleo Brasileiro SA, Brazil’s
state-run oil producer, has about 15 billion barrels of proved
reserves, the nation’s largest.  Other companies controlled by Batista also declined today in
Sao Paulo trading. Iron-ore miner MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA
fell 5.6 percent, logistics company LLX Logistica SA lost 5.2
percent, and shipbuilder OSX Brasil SA dropped 3 percent.  The resource report was issued by auditing firm DeGolyer &
MacNaughton. Contingent resources are defined as potentially
recoverable and less certain than proved reserves, and
prospective resources are estimated volumes associated with
undiscovered accumulations, according to the  Petroleum Resources
Management System .  OGX is seeking partners and may sell bonds to help cover
exploration and production costs as the company accelerates the
development of its oil and natural-gas fields, Batista said
today in a conference call with analysts.  “More than $2 billion is being offered to us” for
financing, Batista said.  OGX may issue bonds or sell 10 percent of its assets in the
Campos Basin to another  oil company  to raise cash, Batista said.
OGX has had a 100 percent success rate with its exploration
wells in Campos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jessica Brice in Sao Paulo at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 