-- 
Belarus ‘Can’t Avoid’ Devaluing Ruble, Sberbank’s Gref Says

-- B y   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 
2011-04-18T15:39:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/belarus-can-t-avoid-devaluing-ruble-sberbank-s-gref-says-1-.html
Belarus will be forced to devalue
the ruble because of the country’s widening current-account gap
and its falling gold and currency reserves, according to OAO
Sberbank, Russia’s biggest lender.  “The government won’t be able to avoid a devaluation of
the currency, though this will be very good for the economy,”
 German Gref , Sberbank’s chief executive officer, said in an
interview. Moscow-based Sberbank owns BPS Bank, Belarus’s third-
biggest lender by assets.  Local banks in Belarus can sell foreign currencies at a
rate that deviates as much as 10 percent from the official rate
after the central bank relaxed its controls on the ruble on
March 30. That’s up from 2 percent. The former Soviet republic
may reduce the ruble’s value by as much as 30 percent, Herbert Stepic, chief executive officer of Vienna-based  Raiffeisen Bank
International AG (RBI) , said on April 11.  President Aleksandr Lukashenko pledged on April 16 to take
steps to help “balance” the domestic  currency market , the
state-run news service  Belta  reported. “Realigning” the
 exchange rate  is a ‘matter of a few days, perhaps a week,’’
Lukashenko was cited by Belta as saying.  Dispensing Currency  Belarusbank, the country’s largest lender, is no longer
dispensing foreign currency to local customers and has imposed a
limit on withdrawals abroad amid concern the ruble will be
depreciated.  The central bank last week dropped sales of precious metals
in the national currency, offering gold, silver and platinum
only in dollars. The bank is continuing to accept rubles on its
purchases of precious metals.  The order to suspend currency sales was made to avoid
“fleecing” the country, Lukashenko said, according to Belta.  Belarus’s gold and foreign-currency reserves fell 6.5
percent in March as the government tried to close a current-
account gap that was equivalent to 15.6 percent of gross
domestic product last year. The trade deficit more than
quadrupled to almost $2 billion in the first two months of the
year from $468 million a year earlier, according to data from
the National Committee for Statistics.  ‘Additional Risks’  “Depleting gold and currency reserves creates risks” in
terms of the willingness of banks to lend money, Gref, 47, said
in the interview at Sberbank’s headquarters on April 15.  While Sberbank is satisfied with BPS’s performance since
buying the bank in December 2009 and will seek to expand its
presence in the country, “macroeconomic risks remain high,”
Gref said.  Russia  may increase its influence over the former Soviet
republic by “taking over valuable assets,” Stepic said.
Belarus is seeking a $3 billion bailout loan from Russia and
former Soviet partners.  Raiffeisen has an 88 percent stake in Priorbank, Belarus’s
fifth-biggest bank by assets.  Russia plans to complete talks with Belarus within a month
on the terms and conditions under which it would agree to extend
aid, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said April 18 in  Washington .  The loan, which may be released in installments over a
period of two years, will be provided from the $10 billion anti-
crisis Eurasian Cooperation Fund set up by governments including
Russia and  Kazakhstan , Kudrin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 