-- 
Blagojevich Telling Lies on Local TV on Eve of Retrial, Prosecutor Says

-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 
2011-04-18T17:53:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/blagojevich-telling-lies-on-local-tv-on-eve-of-retrial-prosecutor-says.html
Former Illinois Governor  Rod Blagojevich , who faces an April 20 retrial on corruption
charges, is telling lies in Chicago-area television interviews,
Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reid Schar  has told a federal judge.  “If the defendant wants to continue to lie, he ought to be
called on it,” Schar today told U.S. District Judge James B. Zagel in  Chicago  at a pre-trial conference. Jury selection in
the case is scheduled to start in two days.  The twice-elected Democrat, who was impeached and removed
from office by the state’s legislature in January 2009, made the
remarks during interviews yesterday and today, Schar said.  “Perhaps he misspoke,” lead defense lawyer Sheldon Sorosky told Zagel. The ex-governor’s remarks concerning the
judge’s control over what evidence is admitted, as described to
the court by Schar, were “far short of a fabrication,” the
defense attorney said.  Sorosky also said he had not heard his client’s comments
first-hand. Blagojevich, 54, was not present for today’s
courtroom discussion.  “These are his talking points,” Schar replied. “This was
not a mistake.”  Blagojevich, according to Schar, said prosecutors and not
Zagel will decide which wiretap recordings are heard by the jury
and that an order sealing some of that evidence can only be
changed by the government’s lawyers.  “It is not the government who decides what is admitted, it
is I,” Zagel said after hearing from the lawyers.  ‘Red Flag’  Zagel also described Blagojevich’s comments as “a red
flag.”  “It would be wise for the defendant to restrain himself,”
the judge said. “He could step over the line.”  Blagojevich faces 20 criminal counts relating to
allegations he attempted to exchange official acts while
governor for personal favors and campaign contributions. He was
convicted on a single count of lying to federal agents in his
prior trial last year, a crime punishable by up to five years
imprisonment. That jury deadlocked on 23 other counts.  The case is U.S. v. Blagojevich, 08cr888, in U.S. District
Court for the Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  