-- 
Bluefin Tuna, Sea Bass Among Fish Facing Mediterranean Extinction Threat

-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 
2011-04-19T10:07:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bluefin-tuna-sea-bass-face-extinction-threat-in-mediterranean.html
Bluefin tuna, sea bass and hake are
threatened with regional extinction in the  Mediterranean Sea 
because of overfishing and pollution, the International Union
for the Conservation of Nature said.  More than 40 species of marine fish face dying out in the
sea between  Europe  and North Africa, including almost half of
all rays and sharks, the Gland, Switzerland-based union said
today. The IUCN compiles a Red List of Threatened Species.  “The Mediterranean and Eastern Atlantic population of the
Atlantic bluefin tuna is of particular concern,” IUCN Global
Marine Species Assessment Coordinator Kent Carpenter said in an
e-mailed statement. “There has been an estimated 50 percent
decline in this species’ reproduction potential over the past 40
years due to intensive overfishing.”  The International Commission for the Conservation of
Atlantic Tuna, or  ICCAT , in November set the total allowable
catch at 12,900 metric tons of bluefin tuna, a move criticized
by environmental groups including Oceana and Greenpeace, which
have campaigned for a closure of the fishery to allow depleted
populations to replenish.  Catches of bluefin tuna in the Mediterranean and eastern
Atlantic peaked at more than 50,000 tons in 1996, according to
the ICCAT website. In the western Atlantic, the commission is
trying to rebuild stocks and set a limit of 1,750 tons for this
year.  Bluefin tuna was classed as endangered in the
Mediterranean, the second-highest degree of threat. Hake, a fish
popular with diners in  Spain , is in the cod and haddock families
and was classified as vulnerable. The European plaice, a
flatfish, as well as European sea bass and Baltic flounder are
all near-threatened, according to the union.  The shortfin mako, porbeagle and sand tiger sharks were all
classed as critically endangered within the Mediterranean, the
highest degree of threat, while the great white is considered
regionally endangered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  