-- 
BOJ Said to Raise Inflation Forecast to 0.5% on Commodity Costs

-- B y   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-04-19T02:11:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/boj-said-to-raise-inflation-forecast-to-0-5-on-commodity-costs.html
The Bank of  Japan  will raise its
inflation forecast for the year ending March 2012 in a semi-
annual report due April 28, according to four people familiar
with the matter.  An estimate for an increase of about 0.5 percent in
consumer prices will replace a January forecast of 0.3 percent,
according to two of the people, who spoke on the condition of
anonymity because the discussions are private. The policy board
may tweak language related to  price stability  in the report, two
people said.  The policy board will continue to say that its members see
stable prices as being in a positive range of 2 percent or lower,
they said. It may drop a reference to “most” board members
seeing the mid-point in the range as being about 1 percent.
Faster inflation probably won’t prompt the bank to end its zero-
rate policy as it gauges the effect of a March 11 record quake
on the economy and prices, analyst Junko Nishioka said.  “Clarifying its understanding of stable prices will make
its commitment to an accommodative policy clear,” said Nishioka,
chief economist at RBS Securities Japan Ltd. in Tokyo and a
former Bank of Japan official. “With  oil prices  on an upward
trend, it’s becoming more likely the central bank will raise its
inflation forecast.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average slid 1.5 percent today to
9,413.99 at 11 a.m. in Tokyo after  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its
outlook for the U.S.’s AAA credit rating to “negative” for the
first time yesterday. The yen rose to 82.47 per dollar as
investors flocked to safer assets after the announcement.  Mid-Point  The report will indicate that the board as a whole sees
about 1 percent as the mid-point, the people familiar said.
Economists including Yasunari Ueno at Mizuho Securities Co. said
the change is possible after the March departure of Miyako Suda,
a board member who had said she had a “much lower” definition.  Higher commodity costs are the reason for the revision to
the inflation estimate, and not the March earthquake that left
more than 27,000 people dead or missing, the people said.  Since lowering its benchmark rate to a range between zero
and 0.1 percent in October, the central bank has said it will
maintain an accommodative monetary policy until it can forecast
an end to deflation, which has plagued the nation for more than
a decade. Consumer prices fell 0.3 percent in February.  Record Cash  The central bank has injected a record amount of cash into
money markets after the quake as well as doubling its asset-
purchase fund and creating a one-year lending facility to assist
banks in regions affected by the temblor. Policy makers will
probably refrain from taking additional action on April 28 as
they gauge the effect of the disaster, Nishioka said.  Consumer prices excluding fresh food, the central bank’s
preferred measure, are declining at the slowest rate since 2009.
The bank had revised its inflation forecast in January from an
initial 0.1 percent projection in October, citing higher oil
costs. Crude has risen 19 percent this year, outpacing the 11
percent gain between November and January that prompted the
initial revision.  The yen’s 2 percent decline against the dollar since the
start of the year has also boosted energy and material costs.  While producer-price inflation quickened to 2 percent last
month, the fastest pace since 2008,  Bank of Japan  Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa has played down the possibility of the
earthquake triggering a sustained rise in inflation, citing only
“short term” effects from supply constraints.  In contrast, commodity and energy costs may continue to
surge, he said April 7.  An increase in consumer prices doesn’t signify that the
central bank will unwind accommodative policies.  Data for March has shown consumer and corporate sentiment
cooling, prompting economists to lower their gross domestic
product forecasts. The central bank may be forced to cut its GDP
forecast of 1.6 percent growth for the year ending March 2012.  The economy will shrink in the three months ending June
after the earthquake disrupted production, according to
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masahiro Hidaka in  Tokyo  
 mhidaka@bloomberg.net ;
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  