-- 
Bonello Urges ECB Caution in Raising Rates as Most-Indebted Nations Trail

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-18T10:03:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bonello-urges-ecb-caution-in-raising-rates-as-most-indebted-nations-trail.html
European Central Bank council
member Michael Bonello said policy makers mustn’t raise  interest
rates  at the expense of economic growth in debt-strapped euro-
area nations if inflation expectations remain contained.  “In uncertain circumstances like these, we need to balance
doctrine with pragmatism,” Bonello, who heads the Central Bank
of Malta, said in an April 15 interview in Valletta. “We must
be careful not to make it more difficult for countries to grow
out of their debt problem.”  The comments contrast with the inflation-fighting rhetoric
of some ECB officials and suggest there are diverging views on
the 23-member Governing Council over the pace and extent of
policy tightening. Since the ECB raised its benchmark rate on
April 7, yields on Greek and Portuguese bonds have soared to
records amid speculation  Greece  may be forced to restructure its
debt, and Ireland’s credit rating was cut two levels by Moody’s
Investors Service.  “The sovereign debt crisis is not yet behind us, and the
banking sector in some countries -- which is a key to finding a
solution to the crisis -- is still very fragile,” Bonello said.
“We could still see an accentuation of the negative feedback
loop from the financial sector to the real economy via the
sovereign debt channel. The risks to growth could well be
tilting to the downside.”  That’s a departure from the ECB’s official line that risks
to the economic outlook are “balanced.”  ‘Lonely Voice’  Bonello is “a lonely voice,” said  Nick Kounis , chief
European economist at ABN Amro NV in Amsterdam. “In the near
term the risk is for another quick hike, maybe as early as June.
After that, you may see a debate between doves and hawks on how
to proceed.”  The ECB’s decision to start raising borrowing costs during
 Europe ’s debt crisis has attracted criticism from commentators
including billionaire investor  George Soros  and  Nouriel Roubini ,
the economist who predicted the global financial slump.  The U.S. Federal Reserve and the  Bank of England  have so
far kept their key rates at record lows, saying the oil-driven
increase in inflation will prove temporary.  “The dynamics of inflation have become more complex given
that a lot of this inflation is now imported inflation about
which we can’t do very much,” Bonello said. “The council will
continue to monitor closely the relevant information as it comes
in to see what, if anything, needs to be done. Particularly at
this time, it is important to preserve all options.”  Inflation Fighters  Euro-area inflation, which accelerated to 2.7 percent last
month, has been in breach of the ECB’s 2 percent ceiling since
December. In response, the Frankfurt-based  central bank  lifted
its key rate to 1.25 percent from 1 percent, the first increase
in almost three years.  While the move was justified by “growing upside risks” to
 price stability , Bonello said a cautious approach is warranted
“as long as inflation expectations remain well anchored,
monetary growth remains moderate, which it is, and there is no
clear sign of second-round effects.”  The ECB nevertheless appears set on raising rates further,
with Vice President  Vitor Constancio  saying officials remain
determined to fight inflation and Executive Board members
 Juergen Stark  and Lorenzo Bini Smaghi saying the bank will
gradually normalize borrowing costs.  Investor expectations for two more quarter-point increases
in the benchmark rate this year, taking it to 1.75 percent, are
“well founded,” ECB council member  Ewald Nowotny  told
Bloomberg News in  Washington  on April 16. Fellow council member
Luc Coene said in an interview yesterday that monetary
conditions “are too accommodative.”  Rate Corridor  Bonello suggested the next tightening move could include a
re-widening of the ECB’s rate corridor to encourage interbank
lending. That might involve raising the benchmark and marginal
rates while leaving the deposit rate at 0.5 percent, thus
increasing the penalty banks incur if they park money with the
ECB overnight instead of lending to other institutions.  A case could be made “quite soon for normalizing the width
of the corridor between the deposit and the marginal lending
rate,” Bonello said. “There are signs that the market funding
conditions are improving, and one would want to encourage that.
One way of doing it would be by widening the corridor and making
it less attractive for banks to use the deposit facility and
instead go to the  interbank market .”  Bonello also indicated that the ECB may be prepared to
suspend collateral requirements for  Portugal , as it did for
Greece and Ireland, after it joined them in seeking a European
Union rescue.  “It is relevant to note that we’ve had similar situations
in the past two years and the Governing Council on those
occasions decided to suspend the rating threshold in the
collateral eligibility requirements,” he said. “But we only
did that once we’d made a positive assessment of the agreed
program.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt on 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  