-- 
Bonello Says ECB Needs to ‘Balance Doctrine With Pragmatism’

-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-18T09:05:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bonello-says-ecb-needs-to-balance-doctrine-with-pragmatism-.html
European Central Bank council
member Michael Bonello comments on the bank’s monetary policy,
inflation and region’s sovereign debt crisis.  Bonello, who heads the Central Bank of Malta, made the
comments in an interview in Valletta on April 15.  On ECB monetary policy:  “Our monetary policy decisions are taken with a very clear
focus: that is our mandate to preserve  price stability  over the
medium term. The April decision was warranted by the growing
upside risks to the achievement of this objective. At this point
in time it is important that these recent price developments do
not lead to broad-based inflationary developments in the context
of steady growth in economic activity.  “We take decisions from the perspective of the euro area
as a whole, because price stability contributes towards growth
and job creation in the long term to the benefit of all members.
They all stand to benefit in the long term, either directly or
indirectly, if the euro area grows faster.”  “We see the euro as a credible currency that has
benefitted from price stability since its creation, and the
Council is determined to ensure this support continues as we go
forward. We see price stability as a key feature of the euro.”  “We see upside risks to price stability.  Interest rates 
remain low, and the stance is still accommodative. That being
said, the Council will continue to monitor closely the relevant
information as it comes in, to see what, if anything, needs to
be done. We do not make commitments to possible future rate
decisions.  “Particularly at this time, it is important to preserve
all options. The situation that we are in is very fluid, the
dynamics of inflation have become more complex given that a lot
of this inflation is now imported inflation about which we can’t
do very much.”  On the economic outlook:  “The sovereign debt crisis is not yet behind us, and the
banking sector in some countries -- which is a key finding a
solution to the crisis -- is still very fragile. We could still
see an accentuation of the negative feedback loop from the
financial sector to the real economy via the sovereign debt
channel. There’s a very high level of uncertainty in this
scenario, and I think the risks to growth could well be tilting
to the downside. The IMF’s World Economic Outlook has more or
less confirmed this view.”  On raising interest rates further:  “As long as inflation expectations remain well anchored,
monetary growth remains moderate, which it is, and there is no
clear sign of second-round effects, then we must be careful not
to make it more difficult for countries to grow out of their
debt problem. In such uncertain circumstances like these, we
need to balance doctrine with pragmatism.”  On inflation:  “We know that the price of oil has risen further since
March but on the other hand we have seen an appreciation of the
euro to partly balance that increase. It now very much depends
on the extent to which this level of prices persists, and for
how long.  “The June forecasts, which are currently being prepared,
will give us a new inflation profile, an updated one anyway.
Things are changing rapidly so that the stability of forecasts
is uncertain. Apart from events in North Africa,  oil prices 
could also be influenced by the impact of the nuclear disaster
in  Japan . If countries decide to start turning back to oil-based
energy policies, futures prices would factor in this shift in
energy policies.”  On non-standard measures and the rate corridor:  “In a situation when we are still ensuring the provision
of unlimited liquidity at a fixed rate, you can’t steer interest
rates in the way that we normally would have done. It was felt
that at this stage we haven’t yet returned to a normal operating
mode.  “I think that a case could, however, be made quite soon
for normalizing the width of the corridor between the deposit
and the marginal lending rate. There are signs that the market
funding conditions are improving, and one would want to
encourage that. One way of doing it would be widening the
corridor and making it less attractive for banks to use the
deposit facility and instead go to the  interbank market .  “Again it would fit in with moves to normalize our
monetary operations framework. There’s no pre-set calendar,
because there are so many unknowns, things that could happen to
slow down the normalization process. One has to take the set of
indications that you have from month to month, and try to reach
a judgment on how ‘normal’ things are.  “You might think that you can go ahead with withdrawing
these non-standard measures, and then something happens which
suggests you can keep them in place for slightly longer.  “This is the nature of this present crisis, there’s no
steady progression. Decisions have to be taken in relatively
short intervals.  “But we have already phased out some of the non-standard
measures. A large number of counterparties have indeed scaled
down their recourse to our monetary operations. The amounts have
come down. Access to longer term funding does remain a
challenge, however, particularly for some banks in countries
that are experiencing these sovereign debt problems. The Council
is reflecting on this important issue.”  On  Portugal :  “The fact that Portugal has decided to enter into
discussions with the EU and the IMF in liaison with the ECB on
an adjustment program I think is positive.  “It is relevant to note that we’ve had similar situations
in the past two years and the Governing Council on those
occasions we decided to suspend the rating threshold in our
collateral eligibility requirements.  “But we only did that once we’d made a positive assessment
of the agreed program, and we registered and took note of the
governments concerned to fully implement the program. Once
taken, these decisions were made public. What they need to do
above all is to restore market confidence. That has been the
approach.”  On debt restructuring:  The ECB is against restructuring based on the premise
“that governments have to take responsibility for their
economic and fiscal policies, and pursue policies that are
viable in the long term so as to regain market confidence. That
is also an essential complement to the single monetary policy.  “The transmission of monetary policy depends on efficient
money markets, and the whole system can only work if the credit
channel -- which is vital for the propagation of growth impulses
in the economy -- continues to function. A fully functioning
sovereign debt market is essential. Primacy must be given to
this consideration.”  A restructuring of Greek debt “is not really something for
us. This is the responsibility of governments. The ECB has done
a lot to preserve financial stability in the euro area, while
ensuring that its monetary policy transmission remained
effective, and that explains the non-standard measures we have
introduced. The responsibility lies with governments. It is a
matter of interpretation of the concept of EU solidarity, how
they want to effectively manage the situation they have here.
It’s not something we would pronounce ourselves on.”  On Greek debt on the ECB balance sheet:  “There are risks in every action. We just have to stand by
our positions, and wait for decisions by those who are competent
to make them in this field. Central banks have their own risk
management policies, and we have taken decisions recently on
strengthening our capital. It is something we recommend to the
banks as well in the current situation.  “The work of the Basel committee and the FSB is all going
in this direction. Everybody has now fully absorbed the lessons
of the crisis. The under-pricing of risk was one of the
problems.”  On new ECB council members:  “I am sure that the new members will share a similar
commitment to the ECB’s mission as the departing members -- it
revitalizes, changes perhaps the way the Council operates. It
might change the distribution of views, but at the end of the
day all members will be fully committed to what we have to do,
and that’s to pursue the single mandate that we have, price
stability.”  On his personal plans:  “My term runs out in 2013. On the other hand, I’ll soon be
66 and I’ve spent the last 12 years in this position. As for
what I might do later, I have an interest in the country’s
development, and I do believe in the potential of this economy
so I would like to remain associated in some capacity with the
Maltese economy.  “I am also very familiar with European institutions. I
have been part of this whole process of accession to the EU and
euro area. And if I combine that with my experience in
multilateral diplomacy with the  United Nations , I think I might
be able to contribute something on a European level as well, on
a part-time basis of course.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  