-- 
Bordeaux Annual Rite Means 450 Sips, Thirsty Asians: Elin McCoy

-- B y   E l i n   M c C o y
-- 
2011-04-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bordeaux-annual-rite-means-450-sips-thirsty-asians-elin-mccoy.html
Warm spring sun streams into the
 Chateau Latour  tasting room as I spit one of the top wines from
Bordeaux’s 2010 vintage into a small stainless sink.  “It’s like a skyscraper,” says Chateau Latour President
Frederic Engerer, his arms forming a column in the air to
illustrate the taste-shape of this stunning first-growth red.  Ten days ago, Bordeaux’s famous chateaux were basking in
the attention of 5,000 merchants and journalists from 68
countries for the yearly ritual of tasting barrel samples of the
latest vintage. The purpose, as always, is to create buzz and
entice the trade to buy the wines as futures.  Blue skies and temperatures up to 80 degrees had everyone
smiling and expansive.  The yet-another-fabulous-vintage tale had been circulating
for weeks. But wait a minute -- wasn’t the same story peddled
for last year’s “legendary” 2009s?  Bordeaux’s en primeur spin always brings out my inner
skeptic. After 8 days of sipping and spitting about 450 wines,
my verdict is that while many 2010 wines are truly exceptional,
there are plenty of caveats.  The best are stylistically very different from the opulent,
glamorous 2009s -- classic, almost architectural, with powerful
tannins, high alcohol and, luckily, fresh acidity.  I start my first day with a bang at  Chateau Mouton
Rothschild , whose seductive grand vin has a wonderful floral
nose and long rich finish. The percentage of cabernet sauvignon
in the blend is one of the highest ever and that seems to be one
key to balanced wines in 2010.  Almost Perfect  Ditto cabernet franc, which adds freshness. At tiny Chateau
Lafleur in Pomerol two days later, the succulent blend of cab
franc and merlot is just about perfect.  Early ripening merlot suffered during 2010’s long summer
drought. In St. Emilion, where the grape is king, many picked
late and extracted too much tannin from the grapes in the
cellar. The result? Unbalanced wines with harsh bitter tastes,
ominously high alcohol and overripe flavors.  Pomerol fared better, but overall I found the most
successes in the Medoc, where everyone contrasted 2009 with
2010. Emmanuel Cruse of  d’Issan  in Margaux and Jean-Hubert Delon
of Leoville Las Cases in St. Julien prefer their 2010 to 2009.
For others it’s the reverse. Thomas Duroux of Palmer shrugs his
shoulders and says over lunch, “The vintages are like two
beautiful women, one blond and one brunette.” (French
winemakers still talk like this.)  Taste Buds Whipsawed  Each day my taste buds are whipsawed between the official
morning press tastings sponsored by the  Union des Grands Crus ,
the trade group of 132 top estates, and appointments at the
first growths and others who snobbishly refuse to show their
wines outside the chateau. I spit into silver buckets, black
plastic cups, white ceramic containers that look like flower
pots. By day’s end my teeth and tongue are stained dark purple,
and I’ve filled another notebook.  My top marks go to Lafleur, Latour, Lafite, Mouton, Le Pin
and Petrus, plus dark, seductive Hosanna, silky, savory Grand-
Puy-Lacoste, elegant, pure  Pontet-Canet , plummy, sensual Calon-
Segur, harmonious, sleek Palmer and  Ducru-Beaucaillou , d’Issan,
 Rauzan-Segla ,  Lynch-Bages , and deep, profound Leoville Las
Cases.  There will be many good buys, such as Chasse-Spleen,
Lagrange, Capbern-Gasqueton, Cantemerle.  Several sweet Sauternes are delicious, including a subtle
and velvety d’Yquem that some predict will be the next darling
in  China .  The thirsty Asian market is a hot topic. Stacks of
pamphlets in Chinese sit on tables at every first growth.  Son in  Hong Kong   Chateau Margaux’s technical director, Paul Pontallier,
introduces his Mandarin-speaking son, Thibault, 25, who’s living
in Hong Kong to drum up business.  “Last year,” he says, “a third of all Margaux sales were
in China, Hong Kong and Macao.”  At second growth  Cos d’Estournel , a newly hired Chinese
woman pours for a group of her countrymen in the dimly lit two-
story tasting room, which looks like the lavish lobby of a
luxury hotel.  American buyers are busy reminding chateau owners not to
forget the U.S. Chris Adams of  New York ’s  Sherry-Lehmann  says he
ticks off for them the many ways his shop promotes their wines.
He’d like to offer more than the 130 chateaux he bought last
year -- if the prices are right.  Even if chateaux don’t increase over last year, Americans
will pay 10 percent to 15 percent more when prices are released
thanks to the low dollar.  “Historically no one has been able to stomach back to back
good vintages at high prices,” warns Simon Staples of London’s
Berry Bros. & Rudd Ltd.  Bottle for $1,000  Gil Lempert-Schwarz, chairman of the  Wine Institute of Las
Vegas , now on his 23rd en primeur, predicts the first growths
will release a tiny amount at $1,000 a bottle and top chateaux
will sit on most of their stock. “The ‘05s, ‘06s, and ‘08s are
cheaper,” he says.  If you want to taste for yourself, 90 chateaux (but not the
first growths) will show off barrel samples of their 2010s at
London merchant Bibendum’s sixth annual Bordeaux en primeur
tasting on May 4 at  Lord’s Cricket Ground .  Don’t forget to bring a toothbrush.  ( Elin McCoy  writes on wine and spirits for Bloomberg News.
The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of the story:
Elin McCoy at  elinmccoy@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 