-- 
Botswana's Teachers, Nurses Begin 10-Day Strike After Wage Talks Deadlock

-- B y   J e r r y   B u n g u
-- 
2011-04-18T13:55:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/botswana-government-worker-strike-begins-union-leader-motsamai-says.html
State workers in Botswana, the
world’s biggest diamond producer, started a pay strike today
after wage talks with the government deadlocked.  As many as 90,000 teachers, nurses and other civil servants
are expected to join the strike, Andrew Motsamai, secretary
general of the 150,000-member Botswana Federation of Public
Service Unions, told reporters in Gaborone, the capital.  “We have embarked on a 10-day strike but it may become
indefinite if government continues to intimidate our members,”
he said.  Workers want 16 percent pay increases while the government
has offered 5 percent to be paid in August, if economic
conditions improve. The state says the unions’ demand isn’t
feasible, while workers want a large raise after wages were
frozen for the past three years. The government has vowed to
slash a  budget deficit  that widened to about 10 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year through March after a
decline in diamond demand hit revenue and sent the economy into
recession.  The southern African nation’s economy expanded 7.2 percent
in 2010 after contracting 4.9 percent in 2009, according to the
 Central Statistics Office . Annual inflation was unchanged at 8.5
percent in March.  A peaceful gathering, held outside a secondary school in
Gaborone, was attended by several thousand people, some of them
bearing placards reflecting their wage demands. Workers also
staged protests in Francistown, the second largest city, Gabz
FM, a Gaborone-based radio station reported. Most hospitals,
clinics and immigration offices were being manned by skeletal
staff.  Have Patience  Workers who join the strike won’t be paid, Festinah
Bakwena, director of the Department of Public Service
Management, said on state television yesterday.  “I would like to plead with the striking workers to go
back to work so that we can negotiate amicably,” Mokgweetsi
Masisi, the minister of presidential affairs, said on Gabz FM.
“If they could be patient for the next four months, we hope
this strike will not affect the economy so much that a
reasonable adjustment will be awarded.”  Opposition political parties backed the strike, the
Botswana National Front, Botswana Congress Party and Botswana
Movement for Democracy said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jerry Bungu in Gaborone at 
 jbungu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  