-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Drops on Outlook for U.S. Rating, Tightening in China

-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 
2011-04-18T21:59:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bovespa-stock-index-futures-drop-on-brazil-rate-outlook-china-tightening.html
The Bovespa stock index fell the
most in over two months after  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Service
put a “negative” outlook on its AAA credit rating for the
U.S., Brazil’s second-biggest trading partner.  OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA, the oil producer
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , plunged after
its reserve report was called “disappointing” by Bank of
America Corp. and Banco Santander SA. Homebuilder Gafisa SA led
declines for companies that depend on credit growth, as traders
raised bets for higher borrowing costs in Brazil.  The Bovespa dropped 1.9 percent to 65,415.49 at the close
of Sao Paulo trading at 4:15 p.m. New York time. That was the
biggest one-day decline since Feb. 9. Thirty-nine stocks on the
index declined, 28 gained and 2 were unchanged. The real
weakened 0.8 percent to 1.5893 per  U.S. dollar .  “Standard & Poor’s decision about the U.S. rating joined
OGX’s plunge here in  Brazil  and brought the stock market down,”
Alvaro Bandeira, director of Rio de Janeiro-based brokerage
Ativa Corretora, said in a telephone interview. “There was also
 China ’s increase in banks’ reserve requirements, and speculation
on  Greece ’s possible default. There is no good news whatsoever
today.”  Standard & Poor’s said that more than two years after the
beginning of the financial crisis, U.S. policymakers haven’t
agreed on a strategy to reverse recent fiscal deterioration or
address longer-term fiscal pressures.  Reserves Increased  China increased the amount of money banks must hold in
reserve in an effort to lock up cash and cool inflation, and
central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said monetary tightening
will continue for “some time.”  Greece said it has no plans to restructure its debt.
“Restructuring is not an issue we’re discussing,” Greek
Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in an April 16
interview in  Washington .  OGX plunged 17.3 percent to 16.26 reais, the most since
September 2008, after it reported 10.8 billion barrels of total
crude and natural-gas reserves, according to a regulatory filing
April 15.  “Though the 10.8 billion barrels headline ‘total potential
resources’ estimate did not disappoint, a closer look at the
underlying data suggests that this number is significantly
overstated,” Bank of America analysts Frank McGann and Conrado
Vegner wrote in a note to clients.  The report spurred  Banco Santander  to cut OGX to “hold”
from “buy.”  “The overall report was disappointing,” analysts
Christian Audi and Vicente Falanga Neto wrote in a note to
clients.  Interest-Rate Futures  The yield on interest-rate futures contracts due in January
2013 rose 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 12.68
percent. The yield on the contracts maturing in January 2017
rose 3 basis points to 12.57 percent.  Economists covering the Brazilian economy raised their
forecast for the benchmark interest rate at the end of 2012 to
11.75 percent, up from a week-earlier forecast of 11.5 percent,
according to an April 15 central bank survey of about 100
economists published today. They also held their forecast for
the so-called Selic rate at 12.25 percent by the end of this
year.  Inflation in the next 12 months will be 5.42 percent, up
from a 5.41 percent estimate a week ago, according to the
survey. Economists also raised their forecast for this year’s
inflation to 6.29 percent, from 6.26 percent a week-earlier, the
survey showed.  Gafisa slid 1.7 percent to 9.78 reais.  CPFL Rises  CPFL Energia SA (CPFE3)  advanced 3.8 percent to 47.17 reais after O
Estado de S.Paulo reported that the country’s largest private-
sector power distributor is in talks to buy Empresa de
Investimento em Energias Renovaveis SA, a Brazilian renewable
energy company that operates 18 small hydroelectric plants and
11 wind parks. The newspaper didn’t say where it got the
information.  Investments in Energias Renovaveis will be assessed at an
opportune moment and, at this point, talks are not conclusive,
CPFL said in a filing today.  Duratex SA, the Brazilian producer of wood panels and
bathroom fixtures, rose 1.7 percent to 16.52 reais. The company
plans to invest 1.2 billion reais in two wood panel plants in
Brazil in the next five years, according to a regulatory filing.  Spanish casino operator  Codere SA (CDR)  is studying plans to list
shares of the company in Brazil,  Mexico  or the U.S., Madrid-
based newspaper Expansion reported, citing Chief Executive
Officer Jose Antonio Martinez Sampedro.  Inflation  The Bovespa is down 5.6 percent this year as homebuilders
and banks declined on concern inflation will limit growth,
overshadowing a rally in telecom shares.  The index trades at 10.4 times analysts’ earnings
estimates, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares to a ratio of 14.2 for the Shanghai Composite Index,
7.1 for  Russia ’s Micex, and 15.1 for  India ’s Sensex.  Investors pulled 3.3 billion reais from Latin America’s
biggest equity market this year through April 13, data from the
 Sao Paulo  exchange show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  