-- 
Longest BRIC Stock Rally Since 1997 Seen Doomed as Interest Rates Increase

-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 
2011-04-19T07:55:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bric-stocks-longest-rally-since-1997-seen-doomed-as-interest-rates-rise.html
The longest rally in developing-
nation stocks since 1997 may be ending as higher  interest rates 
in  Brazil , Russia,  India  and  China  curb earnings growth.  For the first time in two years, emerging-market analysts
are cutting profit estimates more than they’re raising them,
consumer stocks are trailing energy producers and shares of
smaller companies are losing to larger equities, data compiled
by Bloomberg and Morgan Stanley show. The same reversals
foreshadowed the end of the emerging-market rally in 2008.  While the benchmark MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained
0.9 percent this year and mutual fund investors are buying
developing-nation equities at the fastest pace in five months,
the gauge is valued at about 2.1 times net assets, 11 percent
higher than the 15-year average. Societe Generale SA and
Barclays Wealth are advising clients to reduce emerging markets
investments as inflation erodes record-high profit margins.  “Inflation risk is much more visible” in emerging markets
than the developed world, said  Kevin Gardiner , the global head
of investment strategy at London-based Barclays Wealth, which
oversees about $266 billion. “Growth is beginning to slow.
Meanwhile, valuations look full.”  The MSCI emerging-market index retreated 1.7 percent 
yesterday after  Standard & Poor’s  cut its credit outlook on the
U.S., the world’s biggest economy, to negative from stable. The
gauge slipped 0.1 percent to 1,160.56 at 8:50 a.m. in London.  Margin Squeeze  Inflation in China and India accelerated by more than
economists predicted in March as rising commodities and inflows
of capital into the fastest-growing major economies thwarted
policy makers’ efforts to contain prices, government reports
showed last week. Consumer prices in Brazil rose at the fastest
pace in more than two years last month, while  Russia ’s inflation
rate is 0.1 percentage point below the highest level since
October 2009.  China has increased borrowing costs four times since
October, while India raised rates eight times since March 2010
and Brazil boosted its rate five times. Russia lifted its main
rate in February. China’s benchmark one-year lending rate is
6.31 percent, while India’s repurchase rate is 6.75 percent and
Brazil’s Selic rate is 11.75 percent. Russia’s refinancing rate
is 8 percent.  ‘Party Is Over’  Rising costs and interest rates are starting to take a toll
on company profits. Gross margin, or the percentage of sales
remaining after product expenses, has slipped to an average 31
percent for companies in the MSCI emerging-market index, from 33
percent last year, the highest level since Bloomberg began
tracking the annual data in 1996.  Shares of  Infosys Technologies Ltd. (INFO) , India’s second-biggest
software exporter, posted the biggest drop in almost two years
on April 15 after the Bangalore-based company predicted higher
salaries will erode profitability.  Rising commodity prices are “triggering second-round
effects via higher wages,” Alain Bokobza, the head of asset
allocation strategy at Paris-based SocGen, wrote in an April 11
report titled “The EM Party Is Over.” He recommends switching
to developed-nation equities from emerging markets.  Infosys was the seventh-biggest contributor to the MSCI
index’s 2 percent retreat last week. The gauge’s decline
yesterday pared the gain from its March 2009 low to 145 percent.
The 21-country index has rallied for 777 calendar days without a
drop of at least 20 percent, the longest stretch since July
1997, according to data compiled by Westport, Connecticut-based
research firm Birinyi Associates Inc. and Bloomberg.  Goldman Turns Bullish  The emerging-market gauge’s 0.9 percent advance this year
through yesterday compares with a 2.9 percent gain in the MSCI
World Index of advanced-country shares and 3.8 percent for the
 S&P 500 .  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. has turned bullish on emerging-
market stocks, saying that central banks will slow the pace of
monetary tightening as inflation eases. A United Nations gauge
of world food prices fell in March for the first time in nine
months, while the S&P GSCI Index of commodities has slipped 3.7
percent from this year’s high on April 8.  China said on April 15 its economy expanded at a faster-
than-estimated 9.7 percent rate in the first quarter, a sign
that demand is weathering tighter monetary policy.  “The balance of risks is shifting,” wrote Noah Weisberger, a New York-based analyst at Goldman Sachs. The bank
expects emerging-market stocks to rally about 12 percent,
according to an e-mailed note yesterday.  Fund Flows  Mutual-fund investors are also reviving bets on a rally.
They poured about $10 billion into developing-nation stock funds
during the past three weeks, the most in five months, data
compiled by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based research firm EPFR
Global show. That compares with $28 billion of outflows in the
previous nine weeks, EPFR data show.  Analysts are cutting more profit forecasts than they’re
raising them for seven of 10 industry groups in the MSCI
emerging-market gauge, with the biggest reductions on health
care, telecommunications and technology companies, according to
Morgan Stanley. Energy companies are getting the biggest
estimate upgrades after  oil prices  surged 17 percent this year
to near the highest levels since 2008.  Consumer stocks in the MSCI emerging-market index trailed
energy companies by 10 percentage points in the first quarter,
the most since the second quarter of 2008, when emerging-market
equities began tumbling amid the global financial crisis. Small-
cap companies, which have market values of less than $2 billion
and get a higher proportion of their revenue from consumers,
trailed the biggest emerging-market stocks by 5.5 percentage
points last quarter, also the most since 2008.  ‘Important Moment’  “It’s quite difficult for equity markets to rally if you
have negative revisions to the earnings outlook,”  Jonathan Garner , the chief  Asia  and emerging-market strategist at Morgan
Stanley in  Hong Kong , said in an interview. “This is quite an
important moment and we don’t think the situation will improve
in the coming months.”  Garner’s 1,290 year-end price estimate for the MSCI
emerging-market index is about 10 percent below the 1,428
average of five strategist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  China International Capital Corp., the country’s biggest
investment bank, predicts slowing economic and earnings growth
will limit equity gains in the biggest emerging stock market.
The top-ranked provider of China research in Asiamoney’s survey
recommends “defensive” Chinese companies including drugmakers
and consumer-staples producers.  Infosys, Televisa  China bulls expecting a rally in stocks as the central
banks nears the end of its monetary policy tightening may be
disappointed, Hao Hong, the global equity strategist at CICC,
said in an April 10 report.  The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of Chinese shares
listed in Hong Kong dropped 23 percent in the six months after
the central bank stopped raising rates in 2007, underperforming
the MSCI emerging-market index by 14 percentage points. In 2004,
the H-share gauge rose about 3 percent after rate increases
ended, trailing the MSCI index by 8 percentage points.  Infosys has tumbled 12 percent in Mumbai trading since the
company reported results on April 15. Credit Suisse Group AG
downgraded the stock to “neutral” from “outperform,” citing
the company’s “poor” outlook for profit margins. The shares
are valued at about 24 times earnings, compared with the five-
year average of 27 times, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Grupo Televisa SA, the world’s largest Spanish-language
broadcaster, sank to a six-month low in Mexico City trading last
week after first-quarter profit fell 18 percent. JPMorgan Chase
& Co. analysts cut their 2011 earnings estimate for Televisa
yesterday, saying that rising costs and “weak” revenue are
eroding profits.  “In most emerging markets, you do have these margin
pressures building,”  Michael Shaoul , the chairman of
Marketfield Asset Management in  New York , who has been shifting
investments to the U.S. from emerging markets, said in an
interview. “We’re fairly convinced that this monetary cycle
will end in some distress.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in  London  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net . 