-- 
Buccaneers, Bears Lined Up to Play Fifth NFL Regular-Season Game in London

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/buccaneers-bears-lined-up-to-play-fifth-nfl-regular-season-game-in-london.html
The  Tampa Bay Buccaneers  and
 Chicago Bears  will play in the National Football League’s fifth
annual game in  London  provided the labor dispute between players
and owners doesn’t alter the league’s schedule.  The full 2011 NFL schedule will be announced today on the
NFL Network and the league’s website.  The Oct. 23 game at Wembley Stadium will help the most-
watched and richest sport in the U.S. continue to expand its fan
base, NFL Commissioner Roger Goodell said.  “Our past four games in London have demonstrated the
tremendous passion for NFL football that exists in the U.K.,”
Goodell said yesterday in a statement released by the NFL.  The Buccaneers, who had a 10-6 record last season, lost 35-
7 to the  New England Patriots  at Wembley on Oct. 25, 2009. Tampa
Bay is owned by the Glazer family, which in 2005 took control of
18-time English soccer champion Manchester United.  The Bears, who fell one win short of the  Super Bowl  last
season, played a preseason game at Wembley in 1986 as reigning
Super Bowl champions. It was the first American Bowl, a series
of games designed to introduce the NFL to fans outside the U.S.  This year’s game is scheduled to kick off at 6 p.m. London
time, which is 1 p.m. in  New York .  Should a labor dispute between players and owners be
unresolved by Aug. 1, the game will be played at Raymond James
Stadium in Tampa,  Florida , the NFL said.  Players seeking to halt an owner-imposed lockout began
formal mediation this week with the league before a federal
magistrate judge in Minneapolis.  If the Buccaneers play in London, the team said season
ticket holders who already paid in full will be refunded for the
cost of that game. Season-ticket accounts using payment plans
would be adjusted to reflect the cost of nine games -- two
preseason and seven regular season -- instead of 10.  The San Francisco 49ers beat the Denver Broncos 24-16 in
last season’s NFL game in London on Oct. 31.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  