-- 
Bulgarian Lead Smelter Ordered to Close Because of Pollution

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 
2011-04-18T09:20:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bulgarian-lead-smelter-ordered-to-close-because-of-pollution-1-.html
Olovno Tzinkov Komplex AD, a
Bulgarian lead and zinc smelter run by Intertrust Holdings AD,
was ordered to close its lead unit because of excessive
pollution.  The Kardjali-based smelter exceeded its annual limit of 24
lead and sulphur dioxide emissions above a specified level by
April 12, the  Environment Ministry  said on its website.  “About 350 people will be laid off and we need to
coordinate this with government authorities,” Roberto Mladenov,
Intertrust’s executive director, said in a phone interview
today. “The order to close the lead unit was issued this
morning.”  Intertrust seeks $70 million to upgrade the unit by 2013,
to meet European Union anti-pollution requirements, Intertrust
Chairman Valentin Zahariev said in a March 15 interview.  The closure won’t affect zinc production, Mladenov said.
Intertrust is investing 50 million euros ($72 million) to expand
the zinc smelter. It plans to have a new electrolyte unit in
operation by the end of the year and to re-equip two more zinc
units next year, Zahariev said. Zinc output will be 20,000 tons
this year, the same as in 2010, he said.  Bulgaria  is recovering from its first recession in more
than a decade after foreign investment dried up during the
global credit crisis. The EU’s poorest country in terms of per-
capita GDP is counting on demand for its exports, including
metals and machinery, to boost growth to 3.6 percent this year
after 0.2 percent in 2010.  Intertrust runs five metal, tool and engineering plants in
neighboring Serbia, and the Gorubso mines at Madan, in Bulgaria.
The company exports 85 percent of its output, mostly to  Italy ,
 Germany ,  Austria  and  Turkey , Zahariev said. The company’s
biggest competitor in Bulgaria is Plovdiv-based KCM.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Lytle at 
 dlytle@bloomberg.net  