-- 
Bullard Says U.S. Economy to Will Weather Shocks, Strengthen This Year

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-18T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/bullard-says-u-s-economy-to-will-weather-shocks-strengthen-this-year.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said the economic outlook for 2011
remains positive, even after a weaker-than-projected first
quarter and global risks to growth.  “The outlook for the remainder of 2011 remains reasonably
strong,” Bullard said in slides and remarks prepared for a
speech today in Louisville, Kentucky.  “In recent weeks, macroeconomic uncertainty has been on
the rise,” Bullard said, citing turmoil in the Middle East and
North Africa, the tsunami in  Japan , the  U.S. budget deficit  and
the European sovereign debt crisis. “Still, the most likely
prospect is that all four are resolved without becoming global
macroeconomic shocks,” he said.  Bullard has said since February that the Fed should trim
its plan to buy $600 billion in U.S. Treasuries through June
amid reports of stronger economic growth. Bullard has qualified
his idea for shortening the purchases, saying there’s “not a
groundswell of support for that” among other policy makers.  The Commerce Department will report next week that the  U.S.
economy  grew at a 1.8 percent annual pace in the first quarter
after expanding at a 3.1 percent rate in the prior three months,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Like Bullard, economists expect the economy to pick up strength
in the remainder of the year and grow 2.9 percent in 2011,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  Fed officials will update their economic forecasts at their
April 26-27 meeting after recent reports of a stronger labor
market and rising inflation. The U.S. unemployment rate fell to
8.8 percent in March, the lowest level in two years, as the
economy has added 478,000 jobs so far in 2011.  Job Growth  Bullard noted the recent improvement in the labor market.
“I expect this will accelerate during 2011,” Bullard said at
the event, sponsored by the  Kentucky  Department of Financial
Institutions, “U.S. firms have cash and are looking for
opportunities to invest.”  Despite the improvement, some 6.3 million people have been
out of work and looking for a job for more than six months and
the employment-to-population ratio is lower than it was when the
recession ended as companies have been slow to hire.  The cost of living in the U.S. rose in March for a ninth
consecutive month, led by increases in food and fuel costs that
drove prices 0.5 percent higher for the second month in a row,
the Labor Department said last week. Prices have risen 2.7
percent in the last year. Excluding food and energy, prices have
risen 1.2 percent.  Core Inflation  While many Fed officials prefer to use core inflation, or
prices excluding fuel and energy, in their forecasts, Bullard
said “the ‘core’ concept has little theoretical backing” and
is “very arbitrary.”  “Headline inflation is the ultimate objective of monetary
policy with respect to prices,” he said. “Core inflation is
not an objective in itself.”  Bullard said that having an explicit target for inflation
would help the central bank guide policy and expectations.  “Inflation targeting is another way to force more
accountability to the central bank and anchor longer-term
expectations. Make the central bank say what it intends to do,”
he said, “and hold the central bank accountable for achieving
the goal.”  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, and
Bullard, 50, does not vote this year. He joined the St. Louis
Fed’s research department in 1990 and became president of the
bank in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Timothy R. Homan in Louisville, Kentucky at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  