-- 
Burkina Faso Unrest Spreads as President Compaore Fails to Quell Mutiny

-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-04-18T15:53:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/burkina-faso-unrest-spreads-as-president-compaore-fails-to-quell-mutiny.html
A mutiny by soldiers in  Burkina
Faso  spread across the West African country as the dismissal of
senior military officials by President Blaise Compaore failed to
quell the unrest.  Soldiers in Kaya, about 100 kilometers (62 miles) northeast
of the capital, Ouagadougou, rampaged through the town last
night, firing their weapons into the air, according to a police
official who requested anonymity to protect his safety.  In Tenkodogo, about 200 kilometers to the east, soldiers
pillaged homes of government officials and also fired guns in
the air, said Damien Yoda, a resident of the town. “We’re
afraid we’ll be hit by stray bullets,” he said today by phone.  Burkina Faso, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s biggest cotton producer,
has been in turmoil since February, when five people were killed
during demonstrations against police following the death of a
student in their custody.  Gold miners including Montreal-based  Semafo Inc. (SMF)  and
London-based  Avocet Mining Plc (AVM)  have operations in Burkina Faso.
Semafo said today that the unrest hasn’t disrupted operations at
its Mana Mine while Avocet said the same on April 15.  Avocet shares fell 3.6 percent to 214 pence in  London  as of
4:24 p.m. local time, adding to a 9.4 percent decline on April
15. Semafo shares gained as much as 3.4 percent today in
 Vancouver , paring their 12 percent decline on April 15.  Cotton prices rose 0.7 percent to $1.7865 a pound in  New
York  as of 11:31 a.m. local time. Burkina Faso’s annual
production of 700,000 tons is less than 1 percent of world
supply.  Car Theft, Looting  Soldiers stole vehicles and looted stores in Ouagadougou on
April 14-16, firing their guns in the air in a protest over
their  living conditions . Businesses in the capital reopened
today for the first time in three days, said Clarisse Hema, a
spokeswoman for the Commerce Ministry.  Burkina Faso  is among the world’ poorest nations, ranking
161st of 169 countries on the United Nations’ Human Development
Index. Compaore, who has ruled the country since seizing power
in a coup in 1987, dismissed the chiefs of staff of the army,
air force and police yesterday, two days after dissolving his
government and firing the head of his presidential guard.  Libya , Ivory Coast  Burkina Faso’s finances may have been harmed by the crisis
in  Libya , where  Muammar Qaddafi  faces a rebellion in the east of
the country and airstrikes, said David Zounmenou, a researcher
in the African conflict prevention program at the Pretoria,
South Africa-based Institute for Security Studies. Compaore has
in the past received aid from Qaddafi.  The political crisis in neighboring  Ivory Coast  has also
harmed Burkina Faso’s economy, which receives an estimated $100
million annually in remittances from workers in the country, he
added.  “The movement is gaining momentum, he seems to be at his
weakest point in 24 years,” Zounmenou said in a phone interview
from Pretoria. “Because he doesn’t have money he can’t pay the
security forces.”  Students demonstrated early today in the town of Koudougou,
about 100 kilometers west of the capital, demanding justice for
Justin Zongo, the student whose death in police custody on Feb.
22 triggered the unrest, said Souleymane Kinda, a resident.  Protests also took place yesterday in Po, a town near the
country’s southern border with  Ghana , resident Zakaria Oena said
by phone. The town is home to a military training center and an
elite commando unit.  Police Station  Such acts “will not be tolerated in a state ruled by
law,” Palguim Sambare, director-general of the police, said in
a statement late yesterday on state television. “The law will
be applied with rigor to every offender.”  In Kaya, soldiers entered a police station at about 9 p.m.
local time yesterday to look for ammunition, then went into the
town’s center, where they fired their guns until 3 a.m.,
according to the police official.  Compaore was re-elected to a five-year term with 80 percent
of the vote in a November poll that was disputed by opposition
groups. In August, his ruling Congress for Democracy and
Progress party proposed scrapping  term limits . A 2002
investigation by the Washington Post  linked Compaore  to al Qaeda
efforts to buy smuggled conflict diamonds from  Sierra Leone .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Gongo in Ouagadougou at 
 sgongo@bloomberg.net ;
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Barden at   abarden@bloomberg.net . 