-- 
Buffett’s Burlington Northern Faces U.S. Rail-Crash Probe

-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 
2011-04-18T18:54:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/burlington-northern-rail-accident-in-iowa-probed-by-u-s-ntsb.html
The U.S. National Transportation
Safety Board is investigating a fatal rail collision in  Iowa 
yesterday between two trains operated by  Warren Buffett ’s
Burlington Northern  Santa Fe .  “Early information indicates that a BNSF freight train
collided with a standing BNSF maintenance train,” the NTSB said
today in a statement. Investigator Michael Flannigan is leading
a seven-person team for the inquiry, the board said.  Two Burlington Northern employees were killed, and two
locomotives and multiple cars derailed in the incident in
McPherson, Iowa, the NTSB said. Burlington Northern, acquired by
Buffett’s  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  in 2010, reported an increase
to 21 collisions last year from 19 in 2009, according to Federal
Railroad Administration  data .  The crash occurred at 7 a.m. local time when an eastbound
coal train with three locomotives hit the rear of an equipment
train, said Gus Melonas, a Burlington Northern spokesman. The
engineer and conductor of the coal train, whose names are being
withheld, were killed, while the other train’s two crew members
weren’t injured, he said.  Burlington Northern, which was a publicly traded company
before the Berkshire takeover, reported 16 on-duty employee
deaths in the five years through 2010, according to the
Washington-based rail agency. Employee on-duty deaths for the
U.S. railroad industry  totaled  95 during the period.  Fort Worth , Texas-based Burlington Northern is the second-
biggest U.S. railroad by annual revenue, behind  Union Pacific
Corp. (UNP)   Buffett, 80, bought Burlington Northern for $26.5 billion
in his biggest takeover. Increased profit at the railroad helped
boost net income at Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire 61 percent
last year. Berkshire took $2.25 billion in dividends from the
railroad in less than 13 months of ownership.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  