-- 
HCA Said to Seek to Extend Term Loan Maturities Month After Completing IPO

-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 
2011-04-18T17:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/hca-said-to-seek-to-extend-term-loan-maturities-month-after-completing-ipo.html
HCA Holdings Inc., the Nashville,
Tennessee-based hospital chain that completed its initial public
offering in March, is seeking to extend the maturity on some of
its term loans, according to people with knowledge of the
transaction.  The company was taken  private  in 2006 by an investor group
including Bain Capital LLC, KKR & Co. and HCA founder Thomas F. Frist Jr., according to a news release.  Lenders in the A term loan due November 2012 can extend
into a new A term loan that will mature in May 2016 or into a
new term loan B3, said one of the people, who declined to be
identified because the terms are private. The new extended A
loan will pay lenders 2.5 percentage points more than the London
interbank offered rate. Libor is a rate banks charge to lend to
each other.  Investors in a term loan B1 can elect to extend into the
new term debt B3 that will mature in May 2018 and pay 3.25
percentage points more than Libor, the people said. The current
B1 expires in November 2013 and pays 2.25 percentage points more
than Libor, the people said.  Bank of America Corp., Citigroup Inc. and JPMorgan Chase &
Co. are arranging the transaction, the people said. Lenders must
let the banks know by April 27 if they will extend, the people
said.  Ed Fishbough, an HCA spokesman, didn’t immediately return a
telephone call seeking comment.  Existing Debt  As of Dec. 31, the company had a $2 billion revolving line
of credit, of which $1.189 billion was available; a term loan A
that had $1.618 billion outstanding; a term loan B that had
$3.525 billion outstanding under the B1 slice and $2 billion
outstanding under the B2 piece, according to a Feb. 17
regulatory filing. The company also has a European term loan.  A term loan B is sold mainly to non-bank lenders such as
collateralized loan obligations, bank loan mutual funds and
 hedge funds . A term loan A is sold mainly to banks. In a
revolving credit facility, money can be borrowed again once it’s
repaid; in a term loan, it can’t.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  