-- 
Cameron Says Gulf Blast Wasn’t Caused by Faulty Blowout Device

-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/cameron-international-says-faulty-blowout-device-didn-t-cause-gulf-blast.html
Cameron International Corp. (CAM)  said
the Deepwater Horizon explosion wasn’t its fault because oil and
gas were already surging toward the rig when workers tried to
activate blowout-prevention equipment the company made.  “Time does not go in reverse,” Cameron said in an April
15 filing in New Orleans federal court. “The simple chronology
of events” detailed in a post-accident report undercuts claims
that Cameron’s blowout preventer, or BOP, malfunctioned and
failed to prevent the explosion, the company said.  Cameron, along with  BP Plc (BP/)  and other companies involved in
the Deepwater Horizon drilling disaster, faces hundreds of
spill-related lawsuits over personal and economic injuries
caused by the worst offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. Eleven
workers were killed by the April 20, 2010, rig explosion.  Plaintiffs suing the companies over the spill have claimed
Houston-based Cameron’s BOP wasn’t designed to handle the
extreme environment and thicker drill pipes found in ultra-deep
wells like the one the Deepwater Horizon was drilling for BP in
the  Gulf of Mexico .  Government forensic examiners who studied the Deepwater
Horizon’s recovered BOP determined that its pincers failed to
completely sever and seal a slightly off-center drill pipe that
got jammed in the preventer by the uncontrolled flow of oil and
gas in the well.  Presidential Commission  Cameron cited findings by a U.S. presidential commission
that investigated the Deepwater Horizon blowout, as well as a
court filing by spill victims, that it says support Cameron’s
claim the BOP didn’t cause the explosion.  “Hydrocarbons had entered the riser well before the crew
attempted to activate the BOP, and even a perfectly functioning
BOP could not have prevented the explosions,” Cameron said in
its filing, quoting the National Commission on the BP Deepwater
Horizon Oil Spill.  A timeline shows that workers for rig-owner  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) 
“successfully closed two” of the BOP sheer rams at 9:47 p.m.
the night of the blast, according to a master complaint filed by
lawyers for oil-spill victims. These closures blocked
hydrocarbons from entering the pipe that connected the BOP on
the ocean floor to the floating rig on the sea surface,
according to the victims’ complaint. The rig exploded one minute
later.  “The blowout could have been contained at this point, had
the gas on the drilling vessel not exploded,” the master
complaint states and Cameron repeated in its filing.  The company also said no one accused it of misconduct after
it sold the BOP to Transocean, which was responsible for
maintaining and inspecting the unit.  The case is In Re: Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield,  Michigan , at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  