-- 
Canada February International Securities Transactions (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-04-18T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/canada-february-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's international transactions report for February
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-resident acquisitions of Canadian securities slowed
to $2.5 billion in February. Foreign purchases of Canadian
equities were up, but non-residents sold Canadian bonds
for the first time in more than two years. Meanwhile,
Canadian investment in foreign securities strengthened to
$2.6 billion in February, led by acquisitions of US
government securities.  First reduction in foreign holdings of Canadian bonds
since December 2008  Non-residents investors sold $1.6 billion of Canadian
bonds in February, the first divestment since December
2008. Prior to February, foreign holdings of Canadian
bonds had increased by nearly 30% over the previous 25
months.  The divestment in February was mainly in federal
government bonds as non-residents sold $5.0 billion on the
secondary market, focusing on shorter term-to-maturity
bonds. Foreign holdings of provincial  government bonds 
were also reduced, mainly through retirements, as new
issue activity was subdued in the month.  However, activity in government bond markets in
February was partially offset by foreign acquisitions of
Canadian corporate bonds. In particular, non-residents
added $3.6 billion of federal government enterprise bonds,
the largest investment since May 2009. Bonds issued by
private corporations also attracted foreign inflows,
largely the result of secondary market acquisitions of
mortgage-backed securities.  Non-residents also withdrew $843 million from the
Canadian money market in February, following three months
of sizeable investment. This divestment was largely
focused in federal government Treasury bills and
retirements of US dollar paper issued by federal
government enterprises.  Foreign investment in Canadian shares strengthens  Foreign acquisitions of Canadian stocks strengthened to
$4.9 billion in February, the largest investment since May
2010. Secondary market purchases of Canadian energy and
resources stocks accounted for the bulk of this
investment. Canadian stock prices increased for an eighth
consecutive month in February, against the backdrop of
appreciating global commodity prices, ending the month
just off the May 2008 high.  Canadian investors focus on US government debt securities  Canadian investors added both long- and short-term
foreign debt securities to their holdings in February,
favouring US  government securities . Investment in US
government bonds of $2.3 billion was widespread across the
maturity spectrum, with the exception for the five-year
benchmark bond. This bond market activity was moderated by
divestment of US corporate bonds, mainly reflecting
retirements of maple bonds.  Canadians also acquired $306 million of US Treasury
bills in February, but reduced their holdings of European
Treasury bills. The Canadian dollar rose 3.1 US cents in
February to end the month with the highest  exchange rate 
since October 2007.  Canadian investment in foreign equities slows  Canadians continued to invest in foreign equities in
February, but at a much lower pace. They added $221
million of these instruments to their holdings, resulting
from a $1.4 billion purchase of US stocks and a $1.1
billion sale of non-US foreign stocks. Divestment was
principally in European and Asian markets. By the end of
February, US stock prices reached their highest level
since May 2008.  Note to readers  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money
market instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well
as warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market
instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than
one year.  Money market instruments have an original term to
maturity of one year or less.  Government of  Canada  paper includes treasury bills and
US-dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  