-- 
Catchy ‘Wonderland’ Has Beheading Queen, Air Guitar Cat: Review

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-04-18T02:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/catchy-wonderland-has-decapitating-queen-warbling-caterpillar-review.html
Alice is grown up in “ Wonderland ,”
a hummable, cheerful Broadway fairy tale best suited to kids and
their parents.  While the new musical’s characters are based on Lewis Carroll’s 1865 “Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland,” the plot
recalls “The Wizard of Oz.” The cast is appealing, the
costumes and choreography are inventive and the score, by Frank
Wildhorn and Jack Murphy, is easy on the ears.  Adult entertainment it isn’t, notwithstanding a reference
to the mad Tea Party and musical snippets of “Gypsy” and other
shows.  We meet Alice’s daughter, Chloe, played by  Carly Rose
Sonenclar , an 11-year-old actress who projects an unnerving
confidence suggesting she’d happily succeed Sutton Foster in
“Anything Goes.” Chloe’s glum about her folks separating, her
new digs with her mom in the  New York  borough of Queens and the
prospect of eating her grandmother’s cream of Brussels-sprout
soup.  Harried Alice (Janet Dacal) arrives home from a teaching
job in the Bronx to discover a publisher has rejected her
children’s novel. She rests on Chloe’s bed and a white rabbit
appears (Edward Staudenmayer) to lead her down the service
elevator shaft.  Channeling Santana  There Alice encounters a caterpillar (E. Clayton
Cornelious) who sings something Lionel Richie might’ve recorded.
A Cheshire cat (Jose Llana) channels Carlos Santana and plays
air guitar on his tail. A white knight (Darren Ritchie) leads a
boy-band parody.  Act II is more action-packed, with the Mad Hatter (Kate
Shindle) plying her powers of persuasion to enlist the Queen of
Hearts (Karen Mason) to behead Alice and her pals. The queen
sings the vaudevillian “Off With Their Heads,” backed by
chorines wearing playing-card outfits courtesy of designer Susan
Hilferty. And Lewis Carroll himself (Ritchie again) sings a
ballad.  Dacal projects an unfussy mom-next-door allure. Alas, her
character’s search for the child within doesn’t make sense, as
she’s childlike from the outset. What she really needs is a
 trust fund  or better paying job.  Staged by Gregory Boyd, who co-wrote the book with Murphy,
“Wonderland” isn’t the most original or coherent musical. But
it’s light on its feet, a nice option for kids and at just over
two hours, its length is wonderful.  At the Marquis Theatre, 1535 Broadway. Information: +1-877-
250-2929;  http://wonderlandonbroadway.com 
Rating: **1/2  (Philip Boroff is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 