-- 
Zhou Says $3 Trillion China Reserves Have Risen Beyond ‘Reasonable’ Level

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-19T04:34:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/china-must-cut-foreign-exchange-reserves-pboc-s-zhou-says-1-.html
China’s foreign-exchange reserves
have exceeded a “reasonable” level and the management and
diversification of the holdings should be improved, central bank
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said.  Increases in the holdings, which topped $3 trillion in
March, are putting pressure on central-bank operations that
withdraw money from the financial system, Zhou said after a
speech at  Tsinghua University  in Beijing late yesterday. Zhou
spoke of the need to reduce an excessive accumulation of
reserves, using a Chinese word that could refer to either
existing holdings or the pace of the build-up.  The reserves climbed $197 billion in the first quarter,
reflecting global imbalances that Group of 20 finance ministers
agreed last week to address through deeper scrutiny of their
economic policies. China’s surging holdings are fueling
inflation that accelerated last month to the highest in 32
months, prompting the government to boost banks’ reserve
requirements this week for the fourth time this year.  “Foreign-exchange reserves have exceeded the reasonable
levels that we actually need,” Zhou said. “The rapid increase
in reserves may have led to excessive liquidity and has exerted
significant sterilization pressure. If the government doesn’t
strike the right balance with its policies, the build-up could
cause big risks,” he said, without elaborating.  Investment Inflows  Foreign direct investment into  China  jumped 33 percent to
$12.5 billion last month from a year earlier, the commerce
ministry said today. The world’s second-biggest economy grew 9.7
percent in the first quarter from a year earlier, faster than
economists had forecast, and consumer prices climbed 5.4 percent
in March, the government said last week.  The nation’s currency holdings jumped by the second-biggest
amount on record in the January to March period, even as the
nation reported its first quarterly trade deficit in seven years.
Economists attributed much of the increase to capital inflows
betting on appreciation of the yuan.  The funds have added to the liquidity that’s flooded the
economy over the last two years as the government encouraged an
unprecedented lending boom to support growth amid the global
financial crisis.  Zhou said speculative inflows of funds are not a major
concern given that China is a large economy which maintains
controls on capital flows for investment purposes. Still,
liquidity is excessive and the government needs to “remain
vigilant” over the  property market  and take “counter-
cyclical” measures to curb surging real-estate prices, he said.  Diversifying Investment  Diversifying the nation’s reserves through investment
agencies such as China Investment Corp., the country’s sovereign
wealth fund, is a consideration, Zhou said, while declining to
answer questions on whether CIC will receive more capital from
the nation’s foreign-exchange holdings.  CIC’s Chairman  Lou Jiwei  said the fund may get more capital
to invest in overseas markets, China National Radio reported on
April 17.  “One option is to consider some new types of investment
agencies which focus on new investment areas,” Zhou said.
“It’s inappropriate for me to detail the next stage of the plan,
but the direction is clear.”  Fitch Ratings  lowered its outlook on China’s AA- long-term
local-currency rating to negative from stable last week, the
first time in 12 years the nation’s debt rating faces a cut.
Fitch said there was a “high likelihood of a significant
deterioration” in banks’ asset quality after a record jump in
lending in the last two years.  Moody’s Outlook  Moody’s Investors Service also lowered its outlook on
China’s property industry to negative from stable on concern
residential sales could decline by as much as 30 percent as
local governments enforce housing curbs.  “The ratings given by international credit agencies
shouldn’t be taken too seriously,” Zhou said. “They may have
good insights on many projects and companies but it’s hard for
me to comment on their sovereign ratings,” he said in response
to questions about the revisions.  Loans to companies and households in China rose to about
140 percent of gross domestic product last year from 111 percent
in 2008, Fitch said. Much of the increase was linked to property
lending and credit to the financing vehicles of local
governments who aren’t allowed to issue bonds.  Zhou said today that letting local authorities sell debt,
whose repayment could be partly supported by property tax
revenues, is a subject that “merits discussion” although such
a move would require a change in the law.  The ability of domestic financial markets to adequately
price such debt also needs to be studied, he said.  --Victoria Ruan. Editors: Nerys Avery, Fergal O’Brien   To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570 or
 vruan1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  