-- 
China March Home Price Gains Slow Shanghai, Beijing on Curbs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-18T09:54:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/china-housing-price-gains-slow-in-beijing-shanghai-amid-increased-curbs.html
China ’s new home price growth
slowed in Beijing and Shanghai in March as the government
intensified property curbs, sending the property stock index to
one-month high.  New home prices in the capital of Beijing rose 4.9 percent
in March from a year earlier, easing from a 6.8 percent gain in
February, the statistics bureau said on its website today. In
Shanghai, the country’s financial hub, prices climbed 1.7
percent last month, down from 2.3 percent growth in February. Of
the 70 cities monitored by the government, 67 cities posted
gains, down from 68 in the first two months, the data showed.  The government said last week that its measures are
working. About 40 cities said last month they will cap new  home
prices  below annual economic and disposable per-capita income
growth or keep them steady following the central government’s
measures to rein in housing values. China also said yesterday it
will raise banks’ reserve requirements starting April 21 to cool
inflation, and central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
monetary tightening will continue for “some time.”  “The  turning point  for home prices is getting closer and
closer,” Shen Jian-guang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., said in a phone interview. “The
government is sending a strong signal to further tighten the
liquidity and continue to control home prices.”  Challenges  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last week in a cabinet meeting that
the country faces challenges including rising property prices in
many cities even as real estate transactions shrink. The
government also raised the minimum down payment for second-home
purchases this year and levied taxes on residences in  Shanghai 
and Chongqing. Beijing and Guangzhou imposed restrictions on
housing purchases in February, while the central bank raised
 interest rates  twice this year.  The measure tracking property stocks on the Shanghai
Composite Index rose 0.4 percent at the 3 p.m. close to the
highest since April 16, 2010. The benchmark gauge gained 0.2
percent.  Home prices in Sanya on southern Hainan island fell the
most by 0.6 percent last month from a year earlier. Nanchong in
the western Sichuan province posted a 0.5 percent decline, while
prices in Quanzhou in the country’s southeast were unchanged,
the statistics bureau said.  ‘Clear Sign’  New home prices in Beijing were unchanged in March from
February, when they recorded a 0.4 percent month-on-month gain.
In Shanghai, they added 0.2 percent in March, down from a 0.9
percent increase in February from the previous month. Of the 70
cities, 12 posted price declines in March from February, when
only eight cities reported a drop in housing values, according
to the data.  It’s a “clear sign that the market is cooling,” said  Sun Mingchun , chief economist at Daiwa Securities Capital Markets in
 Hong Kong , adding that month-on-month data is more reflective of
market trends. “Once we get higher bases and further price
declines in the coming months, we should see year-on-year price
changes turning negative in more and more cities.”  Existing home prices in Beijing fell 0.1 percent from
February, while those in Shanghai jumped 0.4 percent.  China’s home sales value rose 26 percent in the first
quarter to 860.7 billion yuan ($132 billion) from last year,
driving all property transactions 27 percent higher to 1.02
trillion yuan, the statistics bureau reported last week.  Hot Money  Hot money inflows into the Chinese  property market  is
creating bubbles in some cities, Jiang Jianqing, chairman of
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (1398)  Ltd., the world’s largest
bank by market value, said on April 15.  Moody’s Investors Service lowered its outlook for China’s
property sector on April 14 to “negative” from “stable” on
concern residential sales could decline by as much has 30
percent as local government enforce housing restrictions.  The effects of the government’s controls on the property
market were evident in the first quarter,  Sheng Laiyun ,
spokesman for the statistics bureau, said in Beijing on April
15. Investment in real estate rose 34 percent to 885 billion
yuan in the first quarter, the government said last week.  “Property investment is still robust and we are seeing a
mixed picture,” said  Shen Minggao , Citigroup Inc.’s China
research head. “It’s too early to draw a conclusion on whether
the government curbs took effect. It might also be because these
are lagging indexes.”  Mounting Concerns  The International Monetary Authority said  April 11  that
rapid credit growth has created “mounting concerns about the
potential for steep corrections in property prices” in China.  Today’s figures came after private data showed the
country’s housing market remained robust. China’s home prices
rose 0.6 percent in March, expending gains,  SouFun Holdings
Ltd. (SFUN) , operator of China’s biggest real estate website, reported
on April 1.  There will be more government measures in the next month,
Du Jinsong, a Hong Kong-based analyst for Credit Suisse Group
AG, said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  “This is a wakeup call for some of those who are very
bullish,” said Du, who predicted in November the government
will introduce more property curbs. “That means the government
will definitely come up with more measures.”  China Vanke Co., the country’s biggest publicly traded
developer, said March contracted sales value fell 37 percent
from a year earlier in 14 major cities including Shanghai,
Beijing and Guangzhou.  “Local government implementation will be critical, and all
developers are quite cautious and are focusing on getting
presales early,” Christie Ju, head of Hong Kong and China
research at Jefferies Equity Research, said in an e-mailed
response to queries.  China stopped releasing national average property prices
and changed methodology of the survey starting this year, the
statistics bureau announced on Feb. 17.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Malcolm Scott  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Beijing at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  