-- 
Chinese Uighurs' Bid for Guantanamo Release Rejected by U.S. Supreme Court

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-04-18T14:46:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/chinese-uighurs-bid-for-guantanamo-release-rejected-by-u-s-supreme-court.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  refused to
hear an appeal from five Guantanamo Bay inmates seeking to
revive a court order that they be released into the U.S.  The justices today let stand a federal appeals court ruling
that said the five men, Chinese Uighurs held without charges
since 2002, don’t have any right to be resettled on American
soil. A trial judge had ordered their release.  The appeal sought to reinforce a 2008 Supreme Court ruling
that said judges must have the power to order the release of
Guantanamo prisoners. The appeals court said that ruling didn’t
give judges power to order the Uighurs released into the U.S.,
concluding it was enough that the president’s aides were trying
to find another country that would accept the prisoners.  The Obama administration urged the court not to hear the
case, arguing that all five men had rejected offers to be
transferred to Palau or another unspecified country. Four
justices --  Stephen Breyer , Anthony Kennedy,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg 
and  Sonia Sotomayor  -- pointed to those offers in a statement
explaining their reasons for not taking up the appeal.  “These offers, the lack of any meaningful challenge as to
their appropriateness, and the government’s uncontested
commitment to continue to work to resettle petitioners transform
petitioners’ claim,” Breyer wrote for the group. “Under
present circumstances, I see no government-imposed obstacle to
petitioners’ timely release and appropriate resettlement.”  Breyer said the Uighurs could raise the issue again should
their circumstances change.  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in today’s action. She
had worked on the case as President Barack Obama’s top Supreme
Court advocate.  Federal officials have said the men don’t pose a threat to
the U.S. and that returning them to  China  would subject them to
torture or death.  At one point the government was holding 22 Uighurs at
Guantanamo, the U.S. military base in Cuba. The other 17 have
been resettled to Albania, Palau, Switzerland and Bermuda.  The case is Kiyemba v. Obama, 10-775.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 