-- 
China Coal Prices Rise to Four-Month High on Railway Repairs

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-18T04:38:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/china-coal-prices-rise-to-four-month-high-on-railway-repairs-1-.html
The price of power-station coal at
Qinhuangdao, a Chinese benchmark, rose to a four-month high
after railway maintenance cut supplies to the northern seaport.  Coal with an energy value of 5,500 kilocalories per
kilogram gained 1.3 percent to 785 yuan ($120) to 800 yuan a
metric ton as of today compared with a week earlier, according
to data from the  China  Coal Transport and Distribution
Association. That’s the highest since Dec. 13.  Daqin railway, linking Datong city in the northern coal-
producing province of Shanxi to Qinhuangdao port, started a one-
month overhaul this month, the official Xinhua News Agency said
on April 5. Stockpiles at the port, which ships half of China’s
seaborne coal, fell 7.8 percent to 5.9 million tons from a week
earlier, according to the association’s data.  “The main reason for the inventory drop and price increase
is because of the maintenance at Daqin,”  David Fang , a director
at the association, said by telephone in Beijing. “Also,  power
plants  in the south are relying more on domestic coal supplies
because imports have fallen.”  Coal prices at Newcastle port, an Asian benchmark, have
surged as bad weather crimped output in  Australia ,  Colombia  and
 Indonesia , making imports less attractive to Chinese buyers.
Cargoes from the New South Wales port to southern China were at
a premium of more than $10 a ton to shipments from Qinhuangdao,
Huang Teng, general manager at Beijing LT Consultant Ltd., a
coal consultant, said on April 12.  China, the world’s biggest coal producer and consumer, may
cut net coal imports this year because of higher global prices,
Xia Xing, director of planning at the National Energy
Administration’s coal department, said this month.  --Chua Baizhen. Editors: Ryan Woo,  Jane Lee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Clyde Russell at 
 crussell7@bloomberg.net . 