-- 
China Said to Ensure Corn Demand by Curbing Industrial Use

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-18T08:13:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/china-said-to-ensure-corn-demand-by-curbing-industrial-use.html
China , the second-biggest corn user,
is taking steps to limit consumption in the biochemical and
sweetener industry to ensure supply for livestock farmers, said
three people who received a government document on the matter.  Processors will be barred from buying more corn than their
consumption level in 2009 and the government will increase
value-added taxes on corn-based products, said the people, who
declined to be identified as the information isn’t public.  China’s demand for corn-derived products, ranging from
pharmaceutical supplies to alcohol and sweetener in beverages,
is outpacing growth in consumption of livestock feed. The
introduction of curbs on lending to companies for buying corn
showed demand had exceeded production, underscoring the 
growing need for imports, according to Wanda Futures Co.  “While the government may succeed in limiting further
purchases by the industrial processors, the policies may be just
forcing companies to consume inventories, but won’t make demand
disappear,” said  Wang Chen , Beijing-based director of research
at the country’s second-biggest agricultural futures brokerage.  Financial institutions were ordered to stop providing
companies with loans to purchase corn until the end of June,
according to the document cited by the people, dated April 8.  Increased Surveillance  The government will increase surveillance of large
companies to ensure their operations conform with directives and
local authorities were ordered to root out processors with small
or inefficient operations, they said. The government will stop
accepting new license applications for buying grain, they said.  Large industrial processors had anticipated the tightening
moves and stockpiled more supplies, Wang said. As of April 5,
companies and traders bought 74 million metric tons of corn in
major producing-regions, more than twice the amount at the same
time last year, according to  data  from the State Administration
of Grain. The data indicate supply is mostly in the hands of
traders and little is held by farmers, Wang said.  Industrial corn processors such as state-owned Cofco Ltd.,
often outbid livestock farmers because they profit more from the
grain they buy, Wang Licai, vice chairman of the China Starch
Industry Association, said March 16.  Industrial Use  Industrial use of corn in the year through Sept. 30 may
jump 11 percent to 50 million tons, or about 29 percent of
China’s total consumption, according to a forecast by China
National Grain & Oils Information Center. Livestock feed demand
will grow by 6 percent to 105 million tons, 61 percent of the
total, the center’s data show.  Whether China’s consumption can be met without more imports
also depends on the prospects for this year’s crop, expected to
be planted this month, Wanda Futures’ Wang said. “Any
production snags will likely force the country to buy at all
costs, probably in the form of more state purchases,” he said.  China’s state reserve managers are believed to have bought
1 million tons of U.S. corn last month when prices plunged
following the earthquake in  Japan , Wang said.  A call to Li Pumin, deputy secretary general at the
National Development and Reform Commission, the top economic
planning agency, was not answered.  --William Bi. Editors: Jarrett Banks,  Richard Dobson   To contact the reporter on this story:
William Bi in Beijing at 
 wbi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  