-- 
China Crops in Short Supply as Fewer Farms Spur Food Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-19T04:29:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/china-crops-in-short-supply-as-fewer-farms-spur-food-futures.html
Across the road from Zhao Yuanyi’s
wheat field in  China ’s Shandong province, Chonche Group is
expanding a rail-car factory on what used to be 227 hectares of
farms. Nearby,  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  makes sedans on an
87 hectare site that four years ago was covered by crops.  The factories sprawling from Jinan city, 350 kilometers
(220 miles) south of Beijing, put Zhao on the front line of a
clash between a policy of food self-sufficiency and industrial
growth that made China the world’s second-biggest economy.
Industrialization is winning, signaling prices for crops like
wheat and corn will rise as China is increasingly unable to feed
itself and vies for supplies on global markets.  “This year, maybe next, they’ll develop my field,” Zhao,
63, explains as he stands beneath a China Mobile Ltd. cell-phone
tower on the edge of the land he’s tended all his life. The
local government will buy his land, paying compensation through
an annual allowance of 1,800 yuan ($276) per mu, which amounts
to about 2,700 yuan for each person in the village.  China’s farmland shrank by 8.33 million hectares (20.6
million acres) in the past 12 years, Premier  Wen Jiabao ’s top
agriculture adviser Chen Xiwen told reporters March 24. Land
under cultivation has already fallen almost to the government’s
120 million hectare limit after being consumed by apartments,
factories, desertification and a forestation campaign. Drought
has also hit the country’s main wheat-growing region.  “China’s increased demand for agricultural commodities
will mean an increase in prices for the entire world market,”
said David Stroud, chief executive officer of New York-based
hedge fund TS Capital Partners. “China can outlast any other
bidders for the commodities it desires.”  Price Forecasts  Investors should bet on crops in shortest supply in China,
with wheat and corn offering the best opportunities, he said.  Wheat futures in Chicago may average $8.05 a bushel this
quarter, 89 percent higher than the past year’s low, as farmers
struggle to rebuild global stockpiles, according to Rabobank
International’s Agri Commodities Monthly e-mailed April 18. Corn
futures may reach a record, jumping to as high as $10 a bushel,
Alex Bos, an analyst at Macquarie Group Ltd. said April 6.  “As China continues to grow, demand and supply will
struggle to keep up,” said  Abah Ofon , a Singapore-based
commodities analyst at Standard Chartered Plc. “This would be a
problem for any country. For China, the world’s biggest consumer
and producer, a small deficit can result in huge demand for
imports.”  Riots, Poverty  A 5 percent shortfall in China’s overall grain harvest
would potentially require 20 percent of current global grain
exports to meet the country’s annual needs, Ofon said. Wheat in
Chicago reached its highest level since 2008 in February on
concern drought was damaging China’s crop, raising the risk the
country would drain the world market.  Rising food prices cause riots and civil conflict, and
widen the gap between rich and poor, according to an
 International Monetary Fund  working paper by economists Rabah
Arezki and Markus Brueckner  published  last month on the
organization’s website. World Bank President Robert Zoellick
said in February that the price surge was “an aggravating
factor” in uprisings sweeping the Middle East.  Hong Kong-listed Geely and closely held Chonche are using
land that China needs to offset shortfalls in more developed
areas. The spread of cities and factories in wetter grain-
growing coastal regions such as Jiangsu and Zhejiang has put
more pressure on drier provinces like Hebei and Shandong.  “ Food production  is increasingly being focused in northern
areas that have water shortages,” agricultural adviser Chen
wrote in  December . That’s “very worrying for  food security .”  Wen Focus  Wen has pledged to rein in food costs and has said that
inflation, which threatens social stability, was the
government’s top priority.  Scope for raising yields my be limited as wheat farmers in
China are already 51 percent more productive than their American
counterparts per land area, according to data from the
 Department of Agriculture  in  Washington .  While investment in irrigation and technology such as
genetically modified crops may boost that, land and water
shortages and migration of labor to cities is putting grain
production “on a shaky base,” said Qian Keming, head of the
Agriculture Ministry’s market and economic information division.  “With rising living standards, and more consumption of
meat, eggs and dairy produce, grain consumption is inevitably on
the rise,” Qian said.  Chicken, Pork  The Chinese ate 20 percent more chicken last year than in
2006, while pork consumption rose almost 11 percent, USDA data
show. It takes 2 kilograms of feed to produce one kilogram of
chicken, and about double that for pork, according to the
Washington-based  Earth Policy Institute .  China, the world’s biggest grain producer, was a net
exporter of soybeans until 1995. This year it’s forecast to
import 57 million tons, or almost 60 percent of global trade in
the oilseed used in animal-feed and tofu.  Archer Daniels Midland Co.,  Bunge Ltd. (BG)  and Cargill Inc.
were among U.S. food companies that in January won $6.68 billion
of deals to supply China with soybeans, the U.S. Soybean Export
Council said.  China’s imported food as a percentage of domestic
consumption is “tiny” at about 3 percent, said  Frederic
Neumann , a Hong Kong-based economist for HSBC Holdings Plc. “If
you doubled that to 6 percent, that implies enormous purchases
on the world market. The guy with the most financial firepower
is going to drive up the price and smaller countries are just
going to have to cough up.”  Global Shortage  Global food output will have to climb 70 percent between
2010 and 2050 as the world population swells to 9.1 billion
people and rising incomes boost meat and dairy consumption, the
UN’s  Food and Agriculture Organization  said last year.  Soybean futures in  Chicago  are up about 37 percent in the
past year. Wheat is up 70 percent, while corn more than doubled.  By 2015, 51.5 percent of China’s population will live in
towns and cities, Wen said in March. That’s up from 36 percent
in 2000,  World Bank  data show. China’s population is currently
more than 1.3 billion.  Growth of cities in China is part of a global trend pushing
up food prices, said Jeffrey Currie, London-based head of
commodities research at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  With acceleration in demand because of “urbanization and
the shift in diet to more protein, we need to grow more
acreage,” Currie said in February in  Hong Kong . The trouble is,
“we have a finite amount.”  Illegal Use  China’s farmland per capita is less than half the world
average, and one-sixth that of the U.S., according to China
Comment, a Communist Party magazine. Actual land loss may be
greater than the government’s numbers suggest, as local
officials fudge figures and illegal use proliferates.  The Land Ministry said there were 53,000 cases of illegal
 land use  in 2010, including factories, industrial parks and golf
courses. Demand for land was more than double the 400,000
hectares the government allocated, according to the ministry.  Local governments made 2.7 trillion yuan in 2010 selling
rights to farmland for non-agricultural purposes, with total
land sales constituting 60 to 70 percent of revenue, according
to  Landesa , a Seattle-based organization that works to secure
land rights for the poor.  A few villages north of Zhao’s field, Zhao Daochun, 43 and
who is no relation, was supervising a team of 10 men building a
factory on what used to be 2 hectares of fields. His boss
wouldn’t tell him what the building would be used for, he said.  Forced to Sell  About 120 kilometers south, near Qufu, the home of
Confucius, wheat farmer Hu Bo, 36, said officials forced
villagers to sell about 33 hectares of land to build a coal-
washing factory that’s now shuttered.  “The officials don’t give a damn if the business is
profitable,” Hu said. “They just want to receive kickbacks
from investors who get the money from banks and probably don’t
care much about profitability either.”  “I don’t know what I’ll do” once the land has been
rezoned, said Zhao Yuanyi.  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  