-- 
Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, Morgan Stanley Acquitted in Parmalat Abuse Case

-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e
-- 
2011-04-18T13:58:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/citigroup-deutsche-bank-morgan-stanley-are-cleared-in-parmalat-lawsuit.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
Morgan Stanley,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and bankers at the firms
were acquitted by a Milan court in a market-abuse case relating
to the 2003 collapse of Parmalat Finanziaria SpA,  Italy ’s
biggest dairy company.  “The detailed examination of evidence in court brought a
clear view of the facts,” Francesco Isolabella, a lawyer for
Deutsche Bank, said after Judge Gabriella Manfrin read out the
ruling in Milan today.  Milan prosecutors had claimed the banks knew Parmalat’s
true financial situation when they sold bonds and carried out
transactions on behalf of the food maker. The company, now
called  Parmalat SpA (PLT) , failed in Italy’s biggest bankruptcy and
its founder Calisto Tanzi has been convicted of misleading
investors. Parmalat’s collapse left the maker of juices and
long-life milk with 14 billion euros ($20 billion) in debt,
about eight times the amount reported to investors.  The bankers didn’t commit the alleged crimes, the court
ruled. The three judges will publish the reasoning behind
today’s ruling within 90 days.  Citigroup, the third-biggest U.S. bank, said in a statement
that the ruling confirms the bank and its employees had no
involvement. Deutsche Bank said its employees acted
professionally and abided by Italian law, according to a
statement.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in a statement said the firm was
“pleased” with the court’s decision.  Parmalat was brought down by “some of its executives and
some of its auditors,” Bank of America said in a statement. The
ruling confirms that “none of Bank of America’s employees were
aware of Parmalat’s fraud.”  The collapse wiped out much of the value of 10 billion
euros of Parmalat securities held by 100,000 Italian investors
and led to losses at its biggest lenders.  “This is a disgrace,” Carlo Rienzi, chairman of Italian
consumer group Codacons, said in a statement posted on the
association’s website. Investors can still claim for damages in
the civil courts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  