-- 
Citigroup Net Beats Analysts’ Estimates on Reserve Release

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-18T15:40:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/citigroup-profit-falls-less-than-estimated-on-consumer-banking-reserves.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) , the third-largest
 U.S. bank , reported a 32 percent drop in first-quarter earnings,
a smaller decline than analysts estimated, as the bank reduced
reserves for future losses and consumer-banking profit rose.  Net income was $3 billion, or 10 cents a share, compared
with $4.43 billion, or 15 cents, in the same period last year,
the New York-based company said today in a statement. Twenty-one
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated per-share earnings of
9 cents.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, relied on
$3.3 billion taken from reserves for future losses to generate
Citigroup’s fifth straight profitable quarter. The rebound
enabled Pandit to reinstate a 1-cent dividend starting next
month, and analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimate the bank will
post $9.85 billion in adjusted profit for the rest of the year.
Citigroup lost a total of $29.3 billion in 2008 and 2009.  “These guys have put up a fairly respectable record of
turning this institution around,” said David Knutson, a credit
analyst with Legal & General Investment Management, which
manages Citigroup bonds worth about $85 million. “It’s another
question whether they should be releasing reserves as
aggressively as they are.”  Share Performance  Shares of the bank, which rose 43 percent last year after
three consecutive annual declines, gained 4 cents to $4.46 at
11:39 a.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. That
was the second-best performance among the 24 companies in the
KBW Bank Index, behind M&T Bank Corp.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the largest U.S. lender by assets,
last week reported a $2.05 billion profit for the first quarter,
while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the second-largest, made $5.56
billion.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the fourth-biggest lender, may
report a $3.66 billion profit on April 20, according to a
Bloomberg survey of 18 analysts.  Citigroup’s revenue dropped 22 percent to $19.7 billion.
Revenue for the Citicorp division, which contains the bank’s
trading, consumer and investment-banking units, fell to $16.5
billion from $18.5 billion in last year’s first quarter. The
Citi Holdings division, which contains unwanted businesses and
assets, had revenue of $3.28 billion, down from $6.55 billion.  ‘Core Businesses’  “Citi Holdings losses continued to decrease,” Pandit said
in the statement. “We are investing in our core businesses in
Citicorp, our capital strength improved and the mix of revenues
reflects the diversity of our businesses and our depth in both
the emerging and developed markets.”  Total trading revenue declined to $4.87 billion from $6.59
billion in the same period last year, a period that Oppenheimer
& Co. analyst Chris Kotowski called “the best quarter in
history” in a note last month. New York-based Kotowski had
predicted a drop to $5.01 billion.  Trading and investment banking are run from Citigroup’s
institutional-clients group, which Pandit overhauled in January
when he appointed ICG head  John Havens  to chief operating
officer.  James Forese  now runs securities and banking, reporting
to Havens.  Stock-trading revenue fell to $1.07 billion from $1.21
billion a year earlier, and compared with $596 million in the
fourth quarter. Fixed-income trading revenue declined to
$3.8 billion from $5.38 billion in the same period last year.  “This was a very solid quarter outside of trading and a
strong quarter inside trading,” said  Moshe Orenbuch , an analyst
with Credit Suisse Group AG who had predicted that fixed-income
trading revenue would fall to $2.73 billion.  Consumer Banking  Citigroup’s regional consumer-banking business reported
profit rose 58 percent to $1.55 billion profit. Profit at the
U.S. bank increased to $551 million from $15 million. Latin
American earnings rose to $486 million from $372 million last
year. In  Asia , the consumer bank earned $461 million, down from
$567 million.  Losses from bad loans declined to $6.27 billion from $8.38
billion as fewer Citigroup customers missed payments.  “It’s not a company in decline, it’s a company that’s
gradually improving,” said  Anton Schutz , the president of
Mendon Capital Advisors Corp., an asset manager that specializes
in the stocks of financial-services companies and owns Citigroup
shares. “In 2012 this company will return a lot of capital to
shareholders -- a lot of buybacks, a lot of dividends.”  Emerging Markets  Citigroup may invest as much as $4 billion in  consumer
banking  in the next three years, mainly in emerging markets,
Manuel Medina-Mora, head of consumer banking for the Americas,
told reporters in Santiago in March.  Citigroup’s investment-banking business, which includes
advising on mergers and acquisitions as well as managing sales
of equities and bonds, reported revenue slid to $851 million
from $1.06 billion in the same quarter last year. The bank
dropped to seventh from third among advisers on completed global
mergers and acquisitions during the quarter.  Profit at the transaction-services business dropped to $841
million from $930 million last year in the first quarter. The
unit, which made about one-third of Citigroup’s $10.6 billion
profit in 2010, lost top executive Paul Simpson to Bank of
America during the quarter. Pandit has yet to appoint a
permanent replacement.  In Citi Holdings, the local consumer-lending division
reported a $599 million loss, compared with $1.83 billion in the
first quarter of last year. This unit, which contains the
CitiFinancial business, also reduced its provision for future
loan losses by $1.11 billion.  Asset Pool  Citigroup reclassified $12.7 billion of assets in its
“special asset pool” business to trading from held-to-maturity,
a move that paves the way for the sale of those assets, the bank
said. As a result, the bank took a $709 million pretax charge to
revenue.  “Securities-related revenue was a positive surprise and
the reserve release was better than expected,”  David Trone , an
analyst with JMP Securities LLC, said in a note. “On the
negative side, like peers, there is no material momentum on the
traditional banking side, which we view as key to getting the
stock out of its range.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  