-- 
Citigroup First-Quarter Earnings of 10 Cents a Share Top 9-Cent Estimate

-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 
2011-04-18T18:53:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/citigroup-first-quarter-earnings-of-10-cents-a-share-top-9-cent-estimate.html
Citigroup Inc. (C)  rose in New York
trading, the only U.S. lender among the top 10 by assets to
advance, after reporting profit that beat analysts’ estimates
and cutting provisions for future loan losses by $3.3 billion.  Citigroup gained 4 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $4.46 in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading at 2:06 p.m. First-quarter
net income fell 32 percent to $3 billion, or 10 cents a share,
exceeding by a penny the average per-share estimate of 21
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Vikram Pandit , 54, relied on the
reduction in reserves to report the New York-based bank’s fifth
profitable quarter in a row. Losses on troubled loans declined
25 percent as fewer customers missed payments compared with the
same period last year. Profit at Citigroup’s trading and
investment-banking businesses fell by almost half. Revenue
declined in five of the six business units.  “The company is showing just an incredible turn in the
quality of its loan portfolio, which I don’t think was
expected,” said Lutz, Florida-based  Richard Bove , an analyst
with Rochdale Securities LLC. “I don’t see any bank having that
type of rapid improvement.”  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , which last week reported a $2.05
billion profit for the first quarter, fell 3.4 percent on the
New York Stock Exchange, and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , which posted
a $5.56 billion first-quarter profit, dropped 2.3 percent.  Revenue Falls  Citigroup’s revenue declined 22 percent to $19.7 billion.
Revenue for the Citicorp division, which contains the bank’s
trading, consumer and investment-banking units, fell to $16.5
billion from $18.5 billion in last year’s first quarter. The
Citi Holdings division, which contains unwanted businesses and
assets, had revenue of $3.28 billion, down from $6.55 billion.  Losses from bad loans declined to $6.27 billion from $8.38
billion. The $3.3 billion reduction in the provision for losses
on future soured loans amounted to about 80 percent of the
bank’s pretax profit.  “These guys have put up a fairly respectable record of
turning this institution around,” said David Knutson, a credit
analyst with Legal & General Investment Management, which
manages Citigroup bonds worth about $85 million. “It’s another
question whether they should be releasing reserves as
aggressively as they are.”  Total trading revenue declined to $4.87 billion from $6.59
billion in the same period last year, a period that Oppenheimer
& Co. analyst Chris Kotowski called “the best quarter in
history” in a note last month. New York-based Kotowski had
predicted a drop to $5.01 billion.  Investment Banking   Trading and investment banking are run from Citigroup’s
institutional-clients group, which Pandit overhauled in January
when he appointed ICG head  John Havens  to chief operating
officer.  James Forese  now runs securities and banking, reporting
to Havens.  Stock-trading revenue fell to $1.07 billion from $1.21
billion a year earlier, and compared with $596 million in the
fourth quarter. Fixed-income trading revenue declined to $3.8
billion from $5.38 billion in the same period last year.  “This was a very solid quarter outside of trading and a
strong quarter inside trading,” said  Moshe Orenbuch , an analyst
with Credit Suisse Group AG who had predicted that fixed-income
trading revenue would fall to $2.73 billion.  The earthquake in  Japan  forced the bank to set aside about
$100 million for possible losses on mortgages and private-equity
investments, Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  told analysts
on a conference call. The bank recovered initial trading losses
“within a week or so” after the quake, Gerspach said.  Consumer Banking   Citigroup’s regional consumer-banking business reported
earnings rose 58 percent to $1.55 billion. Profit at the  U.S.
bank  increased to $551 million from $15 million. Latin American
earnings rose to $486 million from $372 million last year. In
 Asia , the consumer bank’s profit fell to $461 million from $567
million.  Citigroup may invest as much as $4 billion in consumer
banking in the next three years, mainly in emerging markets,
Manuel Medina-Mora, head of consumer banking for the Americas,
told reporters in Santiago in March.  Citigroup’s investment-banking business, which includes
advising on mergers and acquisitions as well as managing sales
of equities and bonds, reported revenue slid to $851 million
from $1.06 billion in the same quarter last year. The bank
dropped to seventh from third among advisers on completed global
mergers and acquisitions during the quarter.  Transaction Services  Profit at the transaction-services business fell to $841
million from $930 million last year in the first quarter. The
unit, which made about one-third of Citigroup’s $10.6 billion
profit in 2010, lost top executive Paul Simpson to Bank of
America during the quarter. Pandit has yet to appoint a
permanent replacement.  In Citi Holdings, the local consumer-lending division
reported a $599 million loss, compared with $1.83 billion in the
first quarter of last year. This unit, which contains the
CitiFinancial business, also reduced its provision for future
loan losses by $1.11 billion.  “Citi Holdings losses continued to decrease,” Pandit said
in the statement. “We are investing in our core businesses in
Citicorp, our capital strength improved and the mix of revenues
reflects the diversity of our businesses and our depth in both
the emerging and developed markets.”  Citigroup reclassified $12.7 billion of assets in its
“special asset pool” business to trading from held-to-
maturity, a move that paves the way for the sale of those
assets, the bank said. The move reduced revenue by $709 million.  “Securities-related revenue was a positive surprise and
the reserve release was better than expected,”  David Trone , an
analyst with JMP Securities LLC, said in a note. “On the
negative side, like peers, there is no material momentum on the
traditional banking side, which we view as key to getting the
stock out of its range.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net  