-- 
Colombia's Economy May Grow Faster-Than-Expected 5.5% in 2011, Uribe Says

-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   H e l e n   M u r p h y
-- 
2011-04-18T14:04:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/colombia-s-economy-may-grow-faster-than-expected-5-5-in-2011-uribe-says.html
Colombian central bank President
Jose Dario Uribe said the country’s economy may expand as much
as 5.5 percent in 2011, more than policy makers had been
projecting, as strong expansion in credit and  consumer
confidence  create “perfect” conditions for growth.  The central bank late last year forecast 2011 economic
growth of 4.5 percent, though this could be revised in the
bank’s next quarterly inflation report to be published in
roughly three weeks, Uribe said in an interview in Washington on
April 16.  Latin America’s fourth-largest economy will be running
close to full capacity in the second half of 2011, Uribe said,
after expanding 4.3 percent in 2010. Last year’s jump in gross
domestic product was the biggest since 2007, when annual growth
rose to a decade high of 6.9 percent.  “Consumer confidence is increasing again, credit growth is
very dynamic,” said Uribe, 52, while attending the semi-annual
meetings of the  International Monetary Fund . “There are a lot
of signals that the economy is strong, and is growing fast.”  Policy makers raised  Colombia ’s benchmark interest rate by
a quarter point for a second straight month in March to 3.5
percent,  noting  the rise in consumer confidence, bank lending
and retail sales.  As Colombia’s economic expansion gains momentum, inflation
has been accelerating. Annual inflation was 3.19 percent in
March, up from a five-decade low of 1.84 percent a year earlier.
The central bank forecasts inflation near the 3 percent midpoint
of its target range at the end of 2011 and 2012, Uribe said.  ‘Stable, Sustained Path’  Economists cut their forecasts for year-end inflation to
3.31 percent in a  central bank survey  published this month, from
3.48 percent in the March survey.  “I see the Colombian economy in a perfect situation, on a
very stable and very sustainable path,” said Uribe, who has a
doctorate in economics from the  University of Illinois  at
Urbana-Champaign, where he studied alongside Alexandre Tombini,
the president of  Brazil ’s central bank.  The peso appreciated 1.1 percent last week to 1798.43 per
dollar, its strongest level since October. The currency has
gained 6.1 percent against the dollar this year, the best
performer of seven Latin American currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Recent gains in the peso are a result of companies bringing
in funds from overseas to pay local taxes, Finance Minister Juan Carlos Echeverry said in an interview in Washington. Companies
are slated to pay taxes between April 8 and April 25.  The currency’s strength has not prevented the
“tradeables” sector of the economy from growing as fast as
non-tradeables, Uribe said. Tradeables are goods that can be
exported or substituted by imports, and so are sensitive to
changes in the  exchange rate .  Controls, Vigilance  Uribe said he sees no need for the sort of  capital controls 
used in Brazil to stem gains by the peso. Such capital controls
create distortions and should not be implemented without “clear
evidence” that the benefits would outweigh the costs, Uribe
said.  Colombia’s credit rating was raised one-level to BBB- by
 Standard & Poor’s  last month, restoring the investment grade
status lost in September 1999.  The yields on Colombia’s peso bonds fell to their lowest
level in three months last week, as economists cut inflation
forecasts and as bets mounted that funds from  government
securities  maturing next month will be reinvested in debt.  The peso fell 0.1 percent to 1,799.75 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:01 a.m. New York time, from 1,798.43 on April 15. The yield
on the nation’s 11 percent bonds due July 2020 rose 2 basis
points to 8.16 percent.  The central bank needs to watch for signs that optimism
about the Colombia’s economy could lead consumers and companies
to take on too much debt, Uribe said.  “I’m not worried, but you have to always be alert that we
don’t go mad and spend in excess,” Uribe said.  Gross credit expanded 19 percent to 183 trillion pesos
($102 billion) in the year through February, the fastest pace
since October 2008, according to the financial regulator.  Asset price bubbles inflated by capital inflows could be
dealt with by regulation of financial markets, Uribe said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in  Washington  at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net 
Helen Murphy in Washington at 
 hmurphy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at   jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  