-- 
Copper Falls for Sixth Day as S&P Revises U.S. Rating Outlook

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-04-18T16:50:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/copper-may-rise-on-speculation-about-end-of-china-tightening.html
Copper fell for a sixth day in New
York, the longest streak since June, after  Standard & Poor’s  put
a “negative” outlook on the AAA credit rating for the U.S.,
the second-largest consumer of the metal.  S&P cited a “material risk” that U.S. leaders will fail
to deal with rising budget deficits and debt. Equity benchmarks
in the country fell, and the difference in yields between 2- and
30-year Treasuries widened to the most in five weeks.  “People are very frightened by this news, and they’re
going to liquidate any positions that they have,” said Phil Streible, a senior strategist at broker Lind-Waldock in  Chicago .  Copper for July delivery dropped 7.6 cents, or 1.8 percent,
to $4.2015 a pound at 12:28 p.m. on the Comex in  New York .
Prices declined as much as 2 percent. The metal for three-month
delivery lost 1.9 percent to $9,227 a metric ton on the London
Metal Exchange.  The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell as much as 2 percent
and was last down 1.7 percent at 12,128.56 points, led by shares
of Caterpillar Inc. and Alcoa Inc.  Copper also retreated as China, the world’s biggest
consumer, raised banks’ reserve requirements again and a report
showed confidence among U.S. homebuilders fell in April.
Construction accounts for a quarter of copper demand, according
to the Copper Development Association.  Chinese Inflation  The reserve-requirement increase was the fourth this year
and followed a hike in  interest rates  by less than two weeks.
Reserve requirements will rise a half point as of April 21, the
People’s Bank of  China  said yesterday on its website.
Authorities are moving to cool inflation, which is running above
the government’s target.  “Concerns remain that China could be stepping on the
brakes too hard as monetary policy, even in China, doesn’t work
immediately and thus lags a month or so behind the
announcements,” Alex Heath, head of industrial-metals trading
at Royal Bank of Canada Europe Ltd. in London, said in a report
today.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index declined to 16 this month from 17 in March, data
from the Washington-based group showed today. The drop was led
by a decline in the outlook for sales, a sign the residential
construction market may languish near record-low levels.  “Any kind of negative news, you’re going to see a
continued decline there,” Streible said, also pointing to
rising copper stocks in LME warehouses and subdued demand.  LME copper inventories gained 1,350 tons to 451,775 tons,
the highest level since June 29, daily exchange figures showed.
They’re up 30 percent from the 2010 low on Dec. 10. Orders to
draw metal from stockpiles, or canceled warrants, fell 7 percent
to 14,250 tons.  Aluminum, zinc, lead, nickel and tin also fell in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  