-- 
Credit Suisse's Pereira to Increase Brazil Investment-Banking Staff by 20%

-- B y   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-04-18T19:50:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/credit-suisse-s-pereira-to-increase-brazil-investment-banking-staff-by-20-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ’s Brazilian
unit is expanding its  investment-banking  team by 20 percent as
it bets that more local firms will hire the company to help them
go public or tap capital markets to finance expansion.  Credit Suisse is adding six executives to its investment-
banking team of 30 people this year, said Jose Olympio Pereira,
head of investment banking in  Brazil .  “We continue to grow in Brazil,” Pereira, 48, said during
an April 15 interview at Credit Suisse’s offices in Sao Paulo.
“We’ve never had such a high market share in IPOs, and we are
attracting a growing number of clients seeking ways to finance
their growth.”  Companies in Brazil have raised less from initial public
offerings since the start of 2011, compared with the same period
last year. Zurich-based Credit Suisse was a lead manager in five
of this year’s six IPOs, Pereira said. Those six raised a total
of 3.64 billion reais ($2.3 billion), Bloomberg data show. At
this time last year, six firms had sold shares for 6.39 billion
reais, the data show.  Investors this year are being “careful and more
selective” in valuing companies amid increasing uncertainty
about economic issues such as inflation and steps by the
government to control the appreciation of Brazil’s currency,
Pereira said.  “We are not seeing the craziness of people buying stocks
here at just any price,” he said.  IPO Cancelled  Empresa de Cimentos Liz SA, a cement maker based in
Vespasiano,  Minas Gerais , canceled an IPO planned for April 4
after demand didn’t meet the company’s expectations.  Four of this year’s six IPOs were priced below or at the
bottom of initial estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. QGEP Participacoes SA, the  oil company  owned by
Queiroz Galvao SA, was the biggest IPO this year, selling 79.7
million shares at 19 reais each, 17 percent less than the lowest
estimate set by the banks arranging the offer.  Brazilian central bankers’ failure to bring inflation close
to their target and the strong real is making the benchmark
Bovespa stock index the worst performer in Latin America in the
past year, Will Landers, manager of BlackRock Inc.’s $1.06
billion Latin America Fund, said in an interview on April 12 in
 Sao Paulo .  The Bovespa fell 3.8 percent this year through April 15,
led by homebuilders and banks. The MSCI Emerging Markets Index
advanced 2.6 percent and the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  has
climbed 6.6 percent this year through the end of last week.  Curbing Inflation  Consumer price inflation in Brazil accelerated to 6.3
percent in March, its fastest pace since November 2008. Brazil
aims to keep inflation at 4.5 percent, plus or minus 2
percentage points. The government has implemented a series of
measures to curb credit and cut spending to limit consumer
demand and slow inflation.  The real has advanced about 46 percent since the end of
2008 as rising commodity prices and investors looking for higher
yields offered by Latin America’s biggest economy boost foreign-
currency flows. Brazil’s currency on April 8 touched its highest
level since August 2008 at 1.5664 per  U.S. dollar .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio De Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  