-- 
Crude Oil Futures Decline as Saudi Arabia Says Market Is 'Oversupplied'

-- B y   M a r g o t   H a b i b y
-- 
2011-04-18T19:59:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/crude-oil-futures-decline-as-saudi-arabia-says-market-is-oversupplied-.html
Oil fell for the first time in four
days in New York after  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest crude
exporter, said the global market has enough supplies to meet
demand.  Futures plunged 2.3 percent a day after Saudi Arabian Oil
Minister Ali al-Naimi said that the market is “oversupplied.”
China, the world’s fastest-growing oil consumer, increased
banks’ reserve requirements to cool inflation, a sign that fuel
demand growth may slow.  “The Saudis are saying the markets are well-supplied if
not oversupplied,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker
at Tradition Energy in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “The fact that
the Chinese are taking measures because their economy is so
strong seems to be taking air out of the market.”  Crude oil for May delivery slid $2.54 to settle at $107.12
a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Prices have risen
29 percent in the past year.  Brent crude oil for June settlement dropped $1.84, or 1.5
percent, to $121.61 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange.  Saudi Arabia has said it will make up for any production
lost as a result of the conflict in Libya, which erupted in mid-
February. The kingdom cut production to 8.29 million barrels a
day in March after boosting output to 9.13 million in February,
al-Naimi said, and production in April will be “a little
higher” than in March.  ’Trickle’ From Libya  The  International Energy Agency  has estimated Libyan
production dropped to a “trickle” because of the armed
conflict that has pitted rebels in the eastern part of the
country against forces loyal to leader  Muammar Qaddafi . Libya is
the holder of  Africa ’s largest oil reserves.  “News that the Saudis are cutting supply would send us
higher under normal circumstances,” said  Tom Bentz , a broker
with BNP Paribas Commodity Futures Inc. in New York. “Their
explanation that the market is oversupplied is sending us
lower.”  Unrest in Libya, Africa’s third-biggest crude producer
before the conflict, is the bloodiest in a wave of uprisings
that has toppled leaders in Egypt and Tunisia and spread to
Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman, Syria and Yemen.  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries has
pumped enough oil to make up for the cut in Libya’s exports, and
“nobody is pushing” for the group to further boost output,
Kuwaiti Oil Minister Sheikh Ahmed al-Sabah told reporters today
in  Kuwait .  Libyan Unrest  Rebels have struggled for weeks to take and hold cities in
central  Libya , which have been the focus of most of the fighting
since the uprising began in February, calling for deliveries of
heavy weaponry and for the coalition led by the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization to increase attacks.  “Undoubtedly demand for OPEC crude ‘feels’ weak at the
moment due to domestic refinery turnarounds and Japanese
outages,” JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts including  Lawrence Eagles  in New York wrote in a note to clients today. “There is
a real danger that by responding to regional market conditions
for specific crudes, OPEC is setting the stage for further
global price spikes.”  U.S. oil supplies probably rose for a seventh week last
week, a Bloomberg News survey showed. Inventories climbed 1.4
million barrels in the period from 359.3 million a week earlier,
according to the median of eight analyst estimates. The Energy
Department is scheduled to release the data at 10:30 a.m. April
20 in  Washington .  Chinese Economy  Oil also fell after Chinese Central Bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said monetary tightening will continue for “some
time.” The People’s Bank of  China  raised reserve ratios a half-
point from April 21, pushing the requirement to a record 20.5
percent for the biggest lenders. The move came less than two
weeks after an interest-rate increase.  China is the second-largest oil-consuming country after the
U.S. Demand growth slowed for a second consecutive month in
February, to 9.6 percent on a year-on-year basis, compared with
13 percent in January and 16 percent in December, the IEA
reported last week in its monthly Oil Market Report.  Annual demand is projected to grow to 10 million barrels a
day this year from 9.4 million in 2010.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators reduced their
bullish bets on crude oil for the first time in four weeks amid
signs the oil market had risen too fast.  Net-long positions in oil declined by 23,718 futures and
options combined, or 7.8 percent, to 281,579, in the seven days
ended April 12, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 493,314
contracts as of 3:20 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 578,026
contracts April 15, 27 percent below the average of the past
three months. Open interest was 1.55 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margot Habiby in  Dallas  at   mhabiby@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bill Banker at   bbanker@bloomberg.net . 