-- 
Cuccinelli Makes Long-Shot Supreme Court Bid to Overturn Health-Care Law

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-04-18T04:01:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/cuccinelli-makes-long-shot-court-bid-to-overturn-obama-s-health-care-law.html
Ken Cuccinelli, the  Virginia 
attorney general challenging President  Barack Obama ’s health-
care overhaul, is quick to agree that his request for fast-track
review by the U.S. Supreme Court is a long shot.  “It is,” Cuccinelli said. “But there’s so much money at
stake for the states and for the private sector and there’s so
much uncertainty produced in the economy because of this
legislation that it was worth the ask.”  Cuccinelli’s bid, which asks the justices to consider the
law’s constitutionality without waiting for an appeals court to
rule, marks the first time a state challenge to the law has
reached the nation’s highest court. The justices may act on the
request as early as today.  Virginia is one of 27 states suing to overturn the law,
contending that Congress overstepped its authority by requiring
Americans to either obtain insurance or pay a penalty. Four
federal appeals courts are poised to consider the issue in the
coming months, and advocates on both sides of the issue say
 Supreme Court  review is likely -- just not necessarily now.  “As important as the issue is in the long run, it’s hard
to see the urgency,” said Edward Hartnett, a professor at Seton
Hall School of Law and the co-author of a treatise on Supreme
Court practice.  The step sought by Virginia, known as certiorari before
judgment, is one the court has taken only a handful of times,
including its 1974 decision ordering President  Richard Nixon  to
turn over Oval Office tape recordings and its 1952 ruling
blocking President Harry S Truman from seizing the nation’s
steel mills.  Urgency Questioned  The Obama administration argues that the health-care
dispute doesn’t rise to that level of urgency, in part because
the disputed provision won’t take effect until 2014. The
justices generally prefer to let one or more appeals courts
weigh in, helping to refine and shape the issues.  “The constitutionality of the minimum coverage provision
is undoubtedly an issue of great public importance,” acting
U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal argued in court papers.
“This case is not, however, one of the rare cases that
justifies deviation from normal appellate practice and requires
immediate determination in this court.”  U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson ruled in December that
Congress’s authority over interstate commerce doesn’t give it
the power to enact the insurance mandate. The administration is
appealing that ruling to a federal appellate court in Richmond,
Virginia, and Cuccinelli is seeking to bypass that step.  Planning Costs  Cuccinelli says his state alone is spending between $20
million and $30 million preparing to implement the law. The
measure calls on states to set up exchanges where residents can
buy insurance.  “You’re really talking about enormous amounts of money
that are being spent just administratively to prepare for a law
that may not be in place,” Cuccinelli said.  Katyal countered that Virginia has received a federal grant
to cover its planning costs and is eligible to apply for another
grant to establish an exchange.  Even if the court rejects Cuccinelli’s petition, the
justices may still take up the law in time to rule before the
2012 election, during the nine-month term that starts in
October. Three of the appeals courts are operating under
expedited schedules, creating the likelihood of rulings later
this year that would be ripe for Supreme Court review.  May Arguments  In the Virginia case, the appeals court is scheduled to
hear arguments on May 10. The panel will review Hudson’s ruling
and a different judge’s decision upholding the law.  Another appeals court, based in Cincinnati, will consider
the issue on June 1, and a third, based in Atlanta, will hear
arguments on June 8 in a case involving the other 26 states
challenging the law. An appeals court in  Washington  will
consider the matter later this year.  “It is possible that one of those cases could be heard
next term in the normal course,” Katyal told the justices.  In November the court turned away a challenge to the
health-care law by a California man and interest group that
likewise sought to bypass the appellate level.  The Supreme Court’s handling of the Cuccinelli petition may
provide hints as to how the court will ultimately rule. Although
the justices typically issue nothing more than a one-line order
when they refuse to hear a case, one or more justices might take
the opportunity to issue a statement, perhaps dissenting from
the decision not to hear the appeal.  Roberts Court  The Supreme Court hasn’t directly considered a challenge to
Congress’s power under the Constitution’s commerce clause since
 John Roberts  became chief justice in 2005.  Opponents of the health plan say it is unlike anything the
Supreme Court has ever upheld because the law would require
people to take action: either buy health insurance or pay a
fine.  The Obama administration argues that people who would opt
not to buy insurance without the mandate will affect interstate
commerce eventually -- and potentially impose costs on the
government, insurers and hospitals -- when they seek emergency
room or other medical services.  The case is Virginia ex rel. Cuccinelli v. Sebelius, 10-
1014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 