-- 
Czech Banker Says Preventing Crises by Regulation Is ‘Nonsense’

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a   a n d   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-04-18T06:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/czech-banker-says-preventing-crises-by-regulation-is-nonsense-.html
Attempts to prevent economic crises
through regulatory and supervisory measures are bound to fail as
market economies are “generating crises by definition,” Czech
central bank Governor Miroslav Singer said.  Czech policy makers have been critical of initiatives that
may weaken national supervisory powers. The country hasn’t had
to bail out any of its banks in the global financial crisis and
the Prague-based Ceska Narodni Banka has “considerable
worries” about proposed changes in banking supervision, Singer
said in an interview in  Washington  on April 16.  Governments and regulators are trying to avoid a repeat of
the turmoil in financial markets that followed the 2008 collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. and led to taxpayer-funded
bailouts of lenders across the world. The European Union is
struggling to contain the sovereign debt crisis which forced
 Greece , Ireland and  Portugal  to seek outside financial help.  “The market economy is generating crises by definition,”
Singer, 42, said. “I cannot tell you what the next crisis is
going to be, I can hope it will be less severe than this one.
But the idea that we can prevent, by smart supervision and
regulation, the next crisis, is nonsense.”  Global regulators are overhauling bank capital and
liquidity requirements because existing rules, known as  Basel
II , failed to protect lenders from insolvency during the
financial crisis. The new requirements, known as Basel III, are
scheduled for full implementation by 2019.  Weathering Crisis  Czech banks weathered the financial crisis as their
exposure to toxic assets accounted for less than 1 percent of
all assets, banks had a liquidity surplus and deposits exceeded
loans, according to central bank data. The largest Czech banks
are owned by foreign institutions, including KBC Groep NV,
Societe Generale SA and Erste Group Bank AG.  The latest stress tests conducted by the central bank and
published on Nov. 29 showed the banking industry would remain
stable even if the east European nation’s economy unexpectedly
returned to a recession, although some banks may need a capital
injection.  “We have considerable worries about the changes in
supervisory framework and the regulatory framework as well,”
Singer said. He referred to initiatives that may give more
powers over asset transfers to supervisors in the home country
of banks with operations in other countries “with the host
having very little say.”  That “simply is not alright because our taxpayers will
finally cover the failures, and we feel that who pays, should
also have a say in decision-making,” said Singer.  Czech banks are well-capitalized and would meet new  capital
requirements  under the “Basel III” framework with “almost no
changes in the structure of banking capital,” Singer said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net ;
Halia Pavliva in Washington at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  