-- 
Deutsche Bank Said to Reject $1.1 Billion Settlement of Leo Kirch Lawsuit

-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 
2011-04-18T16:25:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/deutsche-bank-said-to-reject-1-1-billion-kirch-suit-settlement.html
Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  rejected a 775
million-euro ($1.1 billion) settlement proposed last month by a
Munich court that may have ended a nine-year dispute with  Leo Kirch  over the collapse of his media group, two people familiar
with the case said.  The March 24 proposal by the Munich appeals court was made
a day before Kirch testified in the case, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the negotiations were private.
The bank spurned the offer because the amount was too high, one
of the people said.  Kirch has filed suits against the Frankfurt-based bank over
a 2002 Bloomberg television interview by  Rolf Breuer , the bank’s
chief executive officer at the time. In the interview, Breuer
said “everything that you can read and hear” is that “the
financial sector isn’t prepared to provide further” loans or
equity to Kirch. Four months later Kirch Holding GmbH filed the
country’s biggest bankruptcy since World War II.  The settlement would have ended all the litigation. Kirch
has filed two separate damages suits against the lender and
Breuer seeking a total of 3.3 billion euros. He has also filed
criminal complaints and civil suits challenging votes at
shareholder meetings. The bank and Breuer deny wrongdoing.  It’s the court’s duty to work toward an amicable solution
and the bank “of course” examined the proposal, Deutsche Bank
spokesman Christian Streckert said. A spokesman for Kirch
declined to comment.  Ackermann Testifying  Chief Executive Officer  Josef Ackermann  is scheduled to
testify May 19 at the Munich court in a hearing over one of the
lawsuits, court spokesman Wilhelm Schneider said in an interview
today. The bank’s chairman, Clemens Boersig, and management-
board members Juergen Fitschen and Hermann-Josef Lamberti are
also testifying. The court summoned the men at Deutsche Bank’s
request.  In the case, Kirch is seeking 2 billion euros, claiming
Deutsche Bank had a secret plan to cause difficulties for his
media company and then force him to hire the bank to help
restructure the firm.  After testimony from Kirch and other witnesses on March 25,
Presiding Judge Guido Kotschy said in a preliminary assessment
that the court isn’t likely to find that Kirch holds a claim
similar to one he would have if there were a signed contract.
Kotschy also said Kirch hadn’t yet shown he suffered the losses
he claimed because of the interview.  ‘Solid Opinion’  “Courts normally tell parties how they see chances for
either side and a settlement proposal is reflecting that case’s
situation at a given moment,” said Elke Umbeck, a litigation
attorney at Heuking Kuehn Lueer Wojtek in Hamburg. “Executives
of listed companies will only accept it if they have a solid
opinion by their lawyer telling them: ‘Yes, it’s a good deal.’”  The executives can be held liable if they agree to a
settlement that doesn’t seem favorable in light of all
circumstances, said Umbeck. If there is still evidence to be
taken or if the court has voiced doubts about their opponent’s
ability to prove that damage was done, companies may be
reluctant to settle, she said.  This isn’t the first attempt by a court to broker a
settlement. The Munich Regional Court in 2009 started moderated
talks between Kirch and the lender. After failing to reach an
agreement, both parties in March 2010 claimed the other side
wasn’t willing to agree to reasonable terms.  In the Munich appeals case, Kirch has sought to establish
that negotiations with Deutsche Bank in 2001 and early 2002
reached a point under German law that allows a plaintiff rights
similar to breach-of-contract claims.  Intentions  Kirch may still be able to prevail with his claim the
lender intentionally tried to hurt the group, depending on how
the case proceeds, Kotschy said. The witnesses will have to
testify about the bank’s intentions.  Kirch lost the case in a lower court in 2009 and then
appealed. The lower tribunal hadn’t taken any evidence. The same
court rejected Kirch’s separate 1.3 billion-euro suit in
February.  The Munich appeals judges have now also called Thomas Middelhoff, the CEO of Bertelsmann AG at the time, to testify
about a Jan. 27, 2002, meeting he had with Breuer and  Germany ’s
then-chancellor,  Gerhard Schroeder . Kirch claims the men
discussed breaking up his company and the sale of his stake in
 Axel-Springer AG. (SPR)  Friede Springer, vice chairwoman of the
publisher’s supervisory board, has also been called to testify.  Breuer didn’t intend to hurt Kirch with his interview
comments and made that clear in his February statement to the
court, Streckert said. The witnesses testifying next month will
also confirm that, he said.  The lender told the court their executives will say the
bank didn’t plan to actively contact Kirch to procure
restructuring work. The court has ordered the bank to produce a
transcript of a Jan. 29, 2002, management board meeting.  The Munich appeals case is: OLG Muenchen, 5 U 2472/09.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  