-- 
Deutsche Telekom, France Telecom Set Up Purchasing Venture

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l   a n d   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-04-18T11:41:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/deutsche-telekom-france-telecom-agree-on-procurement-venture.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE) , will set up a venture that will let the two former
phone monopolies save 1.3 billion euros ($1.9 billion) annually
by jointly buying telecommunications equipment.  Under a non-binding agreement signed today, the companies
will start joint purchases of phones, network equipment, service
platforms and other technology infrastructure in the fourth
quarter. Paris-based  France Telecom  will save as much as 900
million euros annually after three years and Bonn-based Deutsche
Telekom more than 400 million euros.  France  and  Germany ’s largest phone companies are trying to
cut costs and increase economies of scale by working together.
France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom have announced plans to co-
operate in different areas as part of a broader push to connect
devices such as home appliances to wireless networks. They
agreed in September 2009 to merge their U.K. mobile-phone units,
creating that country’s largest mobile-phone operator.  “There’s still an overwhelming requirement for
consolidation in Europe, and operators are struggling to achieve
that” as governments in the region generally oppose straight-
out mergers, said Will Draper, an Espirito Santo Investment Bank
analyst in London. “It’s positive that they’re trying to
achieve the same benefits of scale in a way that’s short of a
merger.”  Cutting Costs  France Telecom and TDC A/S last year called off a deal to
create the second-largest mobile-phone operator in Switzerland
after regulators rejected the merger of their local units.
Deutsche Telekom agreed in March to sell its T-Mobile USA unit
to  AT&T Inc. (T)  for $39 billion, heralding an end to its decade-
long attempt to establish itself in the U.S. That will force the
company to focus on Germany and southern and eastern Europe.  A final agreement between Deutsche Telekom and France
Telecom will be signed in coming weeks, the companies said
today. Regulatory approval may come in the middle of the year,
said Olaf Swantee, who is responsible for sourcing equipment at
France Telecom. An agreement would help Deutsche Telekom and
France Telecom to “close the gap” to larger telecommunication
companies, he said.  The joint purchasing volume of both companies in these
areas is about 13 billion euros a year, Deutsche Telekom Chief
Technology Officer Ed Kozel said at a briefing in  London  today.  Deutsche Telekom fell 0.6 percent to 11.29 euros as of 1:37
p.m. in  Frankfurt . France Telecom dropped 0.5 percent to 15.57
euros on the Paris exchange.  Smartphone Prices  The biggest cost reductions will come from jointly buying
network equipment, Kozel said, adding that the cooperation may
also allow offering consumers smartphones at cheaper prices.  “It’s not a bad idea, though savings wouldn’t be huge for
either company and it would be difficult to later attribute any
savings to this venture,” said Heinz Steffen, an analyst at
Fairesearch GmbH in Kronberg, Germany. “I’m also not so sure
they will be able to push down costs in the huge market for
smartphones” from makers like  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  HTC Corp. (2498)   European equipment suppliers including market leader
Ericsson AB, Nokia Siemens Networks and Alcatel-Lucent SA are
already facing margin pressure from the entry of Huawei
Electronics Co. and ZTE Corp. into global markets. That’s set to
increase as mergers and procurement deals between operators cut
the number of clients and increase their bargaining power.  Joint Bids  Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom are also preparing
possible joint bids on electronic health projects and common
standards for machine-to-machine communication in some western
European countries, a person familiar with the situation said
April 16.  While Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom do not compete
directly as network operators in some of  Europe ’s biggest
markets such as  Italy  and  Spain  nor in their home markets, the
companies own assets that vie for customers in countries
including Poland, Austria and Romania.  The two companies would continue to compete in these
markets and keep their marketing separate, Swantee said.  “We do not view this as a precursor to a merger as this
deal gets both companies many of the benefits without the
downside risks,”  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C
Bernstein in London, said today. She also cited labor issues,
Deutsche Telekom’s “more attractive” portfolio and political
interference as hurdles for a merger.  Data Surge  The rising pace of technological change in the mobile
industry is pushing mobile operators to collaborate. As revenue
from voice traffic declines and demand for data delivery at home
and on mobile devices jumps, large investments are needed to
complete infrastructure such as fiber-optic cables and high-
speed mobile-phone networks.  France Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard has
built closer links between Europe’s five largest mobile-phone
operators, a group that includes  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Vodafone Group
Plc (VOD) , and  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , in addition to Deutsche Telekom and
France Telecom.  The CEOs of the five companies, four of which are former
national phone monopolies, met last year in Paris to discuss
subjects including work on mobile operating systems and handling
surging quantities of data traffic on wireless networks.  Europe’s biggest operators also are working through the
London-based industry group GSM Association on common standards
for emerging technologies like so-called embedded SIM cards and
mobile payment using near-field communication.  Apple and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , whose respective iOS and Android
operating systems are increasingly dominating the mobile
industry, are both experimenting with their own NFC systems that
would allow users to pay for physical goods with a swipe of
their smartphone.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net ;
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  