-- 
Disney’s ESPN Drops Poker Programming After Websites Charged

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-19T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/disney-s-espn-removing-poker-programming-after-websites-charged.html
Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN sports cable
channel will remove poker advertising and programming after the
U.S. indicted gambling websites that sponsor televised
tournaments and froze their bank accounts.  “We are aware of the indictment only through what has been
announced publicly,” Bristol, Connecticut-based ESPN said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement. “For the immediate future,
we are making efforts to remove related advertising and
programming pending further review.”  The U.S. froze bank accounts in 14 countries and seized
websites, sidelining online poker sites such as  PokerStars  and
 Full Tilt Poker  -- major sponsors of televised tournaments.
ESPN, NBC, Fox Sports Net and the Game Show Network have made
online poker a viewing staple, with 47 programs, including
reruns, scheduled this week, according to  Cardplayer.com .  ESPN, the most-watched U.S. sports network, which airs the
“ World Series  of Poker,” declined to elaborate beyond its
statement, according to Chris LaPlaca, a spokesman.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan announced on April
15 a revised indictment against the founders of PokerStars, Full
Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker.  PokerStars , based on the Isle of
Man, Ireland’s  Full Tilt Poker  and  Absolute Poker  of Costa Rica
are the leading online poker sites doing business with U.S.
customers, according to prosecutors. Five sites displayed
notices yesterday that the FBI had seized the domain names.  The indictment names two principals from each company and
others who allegedly worked with them to illegally process
payments. Five domains were seized, according to Carly Sullivan,
a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney in  Manhattan . They are:
Pokerstars.com, Fulltiltpoker.com, Absolutepoker.com,
Ultimatebet.com and UB.com.  Frozen Accounts  About 76 bank accounts have been frozen, preventing players
from accessing balances held by the online betting companies,
said  Kelly Langmesser , a spokeswoman for the FBI’s  New York 
office.  “We are looking at the funds and accounts to determine if
they are the profits of an illegal enterprise,” Langmesser
said. “The funds won’t be available until a determination has
been made,” she said.  Disney, based in  Burbank ,  California , fell 32 cents to
$41.20 yesterday in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.
The stock has climbed 9.8 percent this year.  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports Net broadcasts “World Poker
Tour.” Lou D’Ermilio, a spokesman for Fox Sports in New York,
couldn’t immediately comment.  ‘Poker After Dark’  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC airs “Poker After Dark” and the
“ National Heads Up Championship ,” while the Game Show Network,
owned by  DirecTV (DTV)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) , airs “ High Stakes Poker .”
Chris McCloskey, a spokesman for NBC Sports in New York,
couldn’t immediately comment.  News Corp., based in New York, fell 42 cents to $16.98
yesterday in Nasdaq Stock Market trading. Philadelphia-based
Comcast lost 53 cents to $23.96. DirecTV retreated $1.04 to
$45.85, while Tokyo-based Sony’s U.S. traded stock declined 44
cents to $29.25.  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-cr00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  