-- 
Dodd-Frank Would Have Rescued Lehman Creditors, FDIC Says

-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-18T20:22:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/dodd-frank-would-have-rescued-lehman-creditors-fdic-says.html
The Dodd-Frank Act would have
enabled an orderly unwinding of  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) 
that would have averted major losses by creditors and taxpayers,
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. said in a report.  If the FDIC had been able to initiate a prompt structured
sale of Lehman in 2008, general unsecured creditors could have
recovered 97 cents on every $1 of claims, compared with 21 cents
estimated in the most recent bankruptcy reorganization plan,
according to the paper released today in the FDIC Quarterly.  Dodd-Frank, the financial regulatory overhaul signed into
law by President  Barack Obama  in July, expands the agency’s
longstanding authority to wind down deposit-taking institutions
to any firm whose failure is deemed a threat to the financial
system. Analysts and economists including Standard & Poor’s have
questioned whether the new powers would be enough to avert
government bailouts like the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief
Program that followed the collapse of Lehman.  “The Lehman failure provides an excellent model to
contrast the tools available to the FDIC to effectuate an
orderly resolution of a large financial institution,”  Sheila Bair , chairman of the FDIC, said in a press release today.  Lehman, the biggest underwriter of mortgage-backed
securities at the top of the U.S. housing market, succumbed to
the subprime crisis it helped create. It filed the largest U.S.
bankruptcy in September 2008 with $613 billion in debt.  Rapid and Orderly  The FDIC could have fired senior managers and opened a
“rapid, orderly and transparent sale of the company’s assets,”
through competitive bidding, the report said. The sale could
have incorporated either loss-sharing to encourage higher bids
or a “good firm-bad firm” structure in which some troubled
assets would be left in receivership for later disposition.  For the purposes of its paper, the FDIC hypothesized that
Barclay’s Plc would have provided the winning bid for Lehman.
“Disruptions to the market likely would have been minimal,”
according to the report. “Barclays would have continued to make
scheduled payments on liabilities transferred to it.”  The report said that through February 2011, more than $1.2
billion in fees has been charged by attorneys and other
professionals in Lehman’s bankruptcy process. The lengthy
proceeding “has allocated resources elsewhere that could have
otherwise been used to pay creditors,” the FDIC said.  Analysts said the FDIC made questionable assumptions in
painting an alternate outcome of Lehman’s collapse.  ‘Significant Challenge’  “A crucial assumption here is that Lehman would have gone
along with this,” said Peter J. Henning, a professor of law at
 Wayne State University  in  Detroit . “I think that’s a big
assumption. Lehman would have been a significant challenge
because it is structured differently from a bank and also has
large international operations that usually don’t come into play
with the banks that the FDIC deals with.”  Gilbert Schwartz, a former Federal Reserve attorney who is
now a partner at Schwartz & Ballen in  Washington , said the FDIC
may be optimistic about its ability to handle future crises.  “It seems to me it would put a tremendous amount of
pressure on the resources of the FDIC to deal with a situation
they have never dealt with before,” Schwartz said. “The
expertise would have to be developed very quickly over time to
deal with companies they are not used to dealing with, like
securities firms and non-banking businesses.”  In a report last month,  Standard & Poor’s  said that
regardless of the new powers granted to regulators, governments
may continue to be prone to bailouts because they’re unwilling
to “risk the potential adverse economic consequences of
allowing a major financial institution to default.”  Multinational Operations  Officials including former U.S. Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers , Federal Reserve Bank of New York President William C. Dudley and Swiss central bank President Philipp Hildebrand have
said that regulators are far from developing processes for
winding down the biggest banks because their multinational
operations create complications.  The FDIC said in its report that if it had been able to
dismantle Lehman, the agency and other domestic regulators could
have used lessons from the experience to lay the groundwork for
improved crisis coordination with foreign regulators.  Jose Gabilondo, a law professor at  Florida International
University  in Miami, said the conclusions of the FDIC paper were
“plausible.”  Still, Gabilondo said, the FDIC’s assertion that its
creditors would have recovered 97 cents on the dollar is “too
speculative because you can’t anticipate how the market would
have behaved -- and more generally this crisis showed us the
weakness of our forecasting models under extreme liquidity
events.”  Bryan Marsal , chief executive officer of Lehman, said in a
statement today that the bankruptcy was “an unconscionable
waste of value” and that “an orderly plan to wind down Lehman
should have been pursued.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at   lroberts13@bloomberg.net  