-- 
Dollar Rises as European Debt Crisis Outweighs S&P's Lowered U.S. Outlook

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-18T21:13:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/dollar-rises-as-s-p-cuts-u-s-outlook-to-negative-boosting-safety-demand.html
The dollar advanced the most since
November against the currencies of major trading partners on
increased demand for a refuge as  Europe ’s debt crisis outweighed
Standard & Poor’s negative U.S. credit-rating outlook.  The euro had its biggest drop in a month versus the yen as
yields on Greece’s two-year notes increased to 20 percent for
the first time since the 17-nation currency debuted. Norway’s
krone dropped against all of its most-traded counterparts as oil
fell. The dollar rallied as a drop in global stocks and
commodities discouraged carry trades.  “S&P gave the U.S. until 2013,”  Win Thin , global head of
emerging-market strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in New
York, said in a Bloomberg Television “Bottom Line” interview
with Mark Crumpton. “It’s a medium-term issue. It’s not
something that’s too surprising. The borrowing costs for  Greece ,
Ireland, Portugal all remain higher. The contagion is there.”  IntercontinentalExchange’s Dollar Index increased 0.9
percent to 75.508 at 5 p.m. in New York, from 74.832 on April
15. The gauge, which tracks the greenback against the euro, yen,
pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Swedish krona, earlier
gained 1.3 percent in the biggest intraday advance since Nov. 23
and touched 75.810, the highest level since April 7.  The dollar appreciated 1.4 percent to $1.4235 per euro,
from $1.4430 on April 15. The euro fell as much as 2.9 percent
to 116.48 yen in the biggest intraday drop since March 17,
before trading at 117.68 yen, compared with 119.96. The U.S.
currency decreased 0.6 percent to 82.66 yen, from 83.13.  Carry Trades  Carry trades involving the borrowing of the dollar and the
purchases of the Australian, Brazilian,  New Zealand  and
Norwegian currencies have returned 19 percent this year through
today, compared with a gain of 23 percent through April 15,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The greenback rallied 0.6 percent to $1.0509 versus the
Aussie, advanced 0.9 percent to 1.59 Brazilian reais, increased
1.1 percent to 79.10 U.S. cents against New Zealand’s currency
and rose 2 percent to 5.4785 Norwegian kroner.  The krone tumbled as crude oil dropped in New York for the
first time in four days, falling 1.9 percent to $107.53 a
barrel. Norway is the world’s seventh-biggest oil exporter.  The  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index dropped 1.6 percent, while the  S&P 500
Index (SPX)  declined 1.1 percent. Yields on 10-year Treasuries fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 3.38 percent.  Greek Debt Risk  Europe’s currency dropped against the yen and dollar as the
cost of insuring Greek government debt rose to a record, with
contracts indicating investors see a greater than 64.5 percent
chance the nation will default within five years.  “The euro is being pressured,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in
Toronto. “Much of the price action is motivated by events and
news of Europe.”  The government of Greece asked the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union this month to extend the maturities
of all the country’s debt, Eleftherotypia newspaper reported.  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  brought the
request to European Union finance ministers at their meeting in
 Hungary  on April 8-9 and to representatives of the EU,  European
Central Bank  and IMF who visited Greece in April, the Athens
newspaper said, without saying where it got the information.  ‘Not an Issue’  “Restructuring is not an issue we’re discussing,”
Papaconstantinou said in  Washington  on April 16.  Support for the True Finns, whose leader Timo Soini has
said taxpayers shouldn’t have helped rescue Greece or Ireland,
jumped almost 15 points to 19 percent in Finland’s elections
yesterday, the Justice Ministry said.  The True Finns will seek a majority that allows them to
block the euro region’s bailout mechanism, Soini has said. The
pro-Europe National Coalition led by Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen won 20.4 percent to become Finland’s biggest party for
the first time.  Concern the euro region’s periphery is struggling to
contain its debt may not be enough to stop European Central Bank
policy makers from raising  interest rates  again this year.  Forecasts that the key rate will be increased by another
half-percentage point in 2011 are “well-founded,” Austria’s
Ewald Nowotny told Bloomberg News in Washington on April 16.  Futures traders have boosted their bets that the euro will
gain versus the dollar, figures from the Washington-based
Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  Euro Net Longs  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the euro compared with
those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 64,985 on April
12, compared with 59,857 a week earlier. The market has been
long on the euro since January.  Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S. government on notice that it
risks losing its AAA credit rating unless policy makers agree on
a plan by 2013 to reduce budget deficits and the national debt.
S&P maintained its top rating on U.S. long-term debt while
lowering the outlook to “negative” for the first time.  “It does raise concerns about the creditworthiness of the
U.S. government, and that’s a huge risk for the dollar,” said
 Omer Esiner , chief market analyst in Washington at Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., a currency brokerage.  Congress is set to begin debate soon on raising the
government’s $14.29 trillion legal debt limit, which the
Treasury Department predicts will be hit in less than a month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in  New York  at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  