-- 
Dubai to Continue to Use Natural Gas as Country's Main Source for Power

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-04-18T16:07:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/dubai-to-continue-to-use-natural-gas-as-country-s-main-source-for-power.html
Dubai will continue to use natural
gas as a main fuel for power generation even as the second-
largest sheikhdom in the  United Arab Emirates  tries to develop
new sources of electricity, a government official said.  Dubai’s state-run Supreme Council of Energy is studying
plans to start producing power from clean coal and solar energy
by 2020 and from nuclear plants by 2030, said Nejib Zaafrani,
chief executive officer of the planning body.  “This is a multibillion-dollar project both on the supply
and demand side,” Zaafrani said today at a conference in Dubai.  The sheikhdom wants to diversify sources of electricity and
improve efficiency over the next two decades to ensure its long-
term energy supply. While the U.A.E. is the fourth-largest crude
producer in OPEC, Dubai produces less than 4 percent of the
country’s oil.  The sheikhdom aims to generate 70 percent of its power from
 natural gas  and the rest from coal, nuclear energy and renewable
sources, Saeed Mohammad Al-Tayer, head of the government-run
power and water provider and vice chairman of the Supreme
Council, said late yesterday at the conference opening ceremony.  Zaafrani said gas currently generates about 90 percent of
Dubai’s electricity. The Persian Gulf emirate is looking for new
ways of storing the fuel underground, to ensure adequate supply
when power demand peaks during summer, and it began last year to
import liquefied natural gas, he said.  Uncontrollable Fuel Costs  “We are an energy importer,” Zaafrani said. “There are
things we control and things we don’t control, and fuel cost is
out of our control.” Spot prices for LNG were about $10-$11 per
million British thermal units, he said.  By taking additional steps to save energy, such as using
better insulation in buildings, Dubai could cut its electricity
demand by the equivalent of the generating capacity of seven
gas-fired  power plants , Zaafrani said.  The U.A.E. holds about 7 percent of the world’s crude
reserves, with most of the country’s deposits of oil and natural
gas located in  Abu Dhabi , the largest emirate.  Persian Gulf states  are boosting power supplies to meet
rising demand as their populations grow and as they seek
investments to spur their economies. The U.A.E. is developing
atomic energy to help compensate for the limited availability of
gas it needs as fuel for power plants.  Demand for electricity in the six-nation Gulf Cooperation
Council, which includes the U.A.E. and  Saudi Arabia , is likely
to more than double by 2030, Abdullah al-Shehri, governor of
Saudi Arabia’s Electricity and Co-Generation Regulatory
Authority, said at the conference. The GCC has about 83,000
megawatts of generation capacity, while demand peaks at as much
as 94,000 megawatts, he said.  Demand in the region may rise to 230,000 megawatts over the
next two decades, al-Shehri said. The GCC’s other members are
Qatar, Oman, Bahrain and  Kuwait .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 