-- 
Dubai Group Liabilities Being Restructured Is Said to Rise to $10 Billion

-- B y   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-04-18T10:36:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/dubai-group-liabilities-being-restructured-is-said-to-rise-to-10-billion.html
Dubai Group LLC, an  investment
company  owned by the emirate’s ruler, is restructuring $10
billion of liabilities, up from an original estimate of $6
billion, two people with knowledge of the discussions said.  The $10 billion includes $6 billion of bank debt and $4
billion owed to other investors, according to the people, who
declined to be identified because the information is private.
Discussions are at an early stage and an agreement is several
months away, one of the people said.  A spokesman for Dubai Group declined to comment.  Dubai Group, controlled by Dubai Holding LLC, is one of
several companies in the emirate seeking to restructure loans
after property prices and asset values slumped and credit
markets froze. Dubai World, one of the emirate’s three main
state-owned holding companies, reached a deal in March with
about 80 banks to delay payments on $25 billion of debt.  Dubai Group appointed eight banks to represent creditors in
two committees in January to help speed up agreement on the debt
restructuring. Paris-based  Natixis (KN)  SA’s Nexgen unit and Dubai-
based  Mashreqbank PSC (MASQ)  make up the committee of secured lenders,
whose loans are backed by assets.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc (RBS)  and  Emirates NBD PJSC (EMIRATES) , the  United Arab Emirates ’ biggest
bank, lead the group of partially secured and unsecured lenders.  Dubai Group invests in the financial-services industry and
owns real-estate assets in the U.S., according to its website.
It holds stakes in firms including  Shuaa Capital PSC (SHUAA) , the
U.A.E.’s largest investment bank, and EFG-Hermes Holding SAE,
 Egypt ’s biggest publicly traded investment bank.  Banks are prepared to accept an extension of loan
maturities of up to seven years to allow the price of Dubai
Group’s assets to recover from the credit crisis, one of the
people, a banker, said. The maturity extensions will allow the
banks to avoid losses, the banker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 Eevans3@bloomberg.net  