-- 
ECB Says Greek State-Backed Bank Bonds Don’t Guarantee Funding

-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 
2011-04-18T16:17:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/ecb-says-greek-state-backed-bank-bonds-don-t-guarantee-funding.html
The  European Central Bank  said
proposed Greek state-guaranteed bank bonds may not automatically
be eligible as collateral for the central bank’s funding
operations.  Draft legislation on the securities doesn’t “reflect the
need for the Eurosystem to assess, on a case-by-case basis, the
actual liquidity needs of individual banks,” the Frankfurt-
based ECB said in a  legal opinion published  on its website
today. “In fact, regardless of the funding plans submitted for
approval, such assessment is needed to ascertain the extent to
which the submission of new collateral in the form of state-
guaranteed uncovered bank bonds is warranted.”  Withdrawals by cash-strapped customers and Greeks moving
money out of the country have pushed down deposits, which banks
need for lending, and increased financial institution’s reliance
on the ECB for liquidity. To help restore funding, the
government and central bank have asked parliament to approve 30
billion euros ($43 billion) of additional state guarantees.  These should “preserve a sufficient margin of liquidity,”
the  International Monetary Fund  said in a March 14 statement.
Those guarantees will be contingent on banks detailing how they
will wean themselves off ECB money.  The legislation is set to be voted on by the end of May.
 Greece  is already struggling to quell speculation about a
restructuring of its government debt.  The Greek two-year note yield surged to 20 percent today,
the highest borrowing cost among developed nations, even after
Greek officials said restructuring isn’t being discussed. The
yield difference, or spread, between Greek 10-year bonds and
German securities of a similar maturity widened 82 basis points
to 1,127 basis points, the most since at least 1998, when
Bloomberg began collecting the data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  