-- 
Egypt in Talks With IMF, World Bank on Loans, Radwan Says

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 
2011-04-18T12:19:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/egypt-in-talks-with-imf-world-bank-on-loans-radwan-says-1-.html
Egypt  needs help financing its
 budget deficit  and has discussed obtaining as much as $6.2
billion in soft loans from the  World Bank  and the  International
Monetary Fund , Finance Minister Samir Radwan said.  Egypt, whose economy is reeling under the impact of a
revolt that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak  in February, needs
between $3 billion and $4 billion from the IMF for the remainder
of the current fiscal year through June and the following 12
months, Radwan said in  Washington  after talks with the global
lender. He also discussed obtaining a $2.2 billion soft loan
from the World Bank, according to state-run Middle East News
Agency.  Egypt’s budget deficit may widen to 9 percent of gross
domestic product this fiscal year, Radwan said on April 3 in
Cairo. Economic growth may slow to as low as 2.5 percent in the
same period, compared with 5.1 percent in the previous 12
months, he said. The minister couldn’t be reached for comment.  The deficit “is still manageable but we cannot sustain
that for a long time with a debt-to-GDP ratio at 70 percent,”
Mona Mansour, a research director at CI Capital, a Cairo-based
investment bank, said by telephone today. “For the short term
yes, but we can’t continue like this because it could affect the
country’s sovereign rating.”  Egypt had its  credit rating  lowered at Moody’s Investors
Service and  Standard & Poor’s  following the protests that led to
Mubarak’s departure. The crisis has prompted tourists to stay
away from Egypt, weakened the currency and pushed government
borrowing costs through treasury bills to two-year highs.  Treasury Bills  The average yield on 91-day treasury bills surged for the
first time since March, gaining 11 basis points, or 0.11
percentage point, to 11.2 percent at an auction yesterday. The
rise extended the cumulative surge in costs this year to about
191 basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The yield on the government’s 5.75 10-year dollar bond
maturing in April 2020 rose 4 basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 6.35 percent, at 12:00 p.m. in Cairo today, according
to prices compiled by Bloomberg. Egypt’s benchmark  EGX 30 Index (EGX30) 
tumbled 3.2 percent in Cairo trading today, extending its
decline this year to 30 percent.  IMF Managing Director Dominique Strauss-Kahn said on April
13 that the lender is ready to help Middle East and North
African countries that may need financing after a wave of
popular revolts that swept the region this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  