-- 
Egypt Drop Most in Three Weeks on Legal Woes, Loans; Risk Rises

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-04-18T14:45:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/egypt-drop-most-in-three-weeks-on-legal-woes-loans-risk-rises.html
Egyptian stocks dropped to the
lowest level in three weeks after Citadel Capital SAE tumbled a
fifth day amid a legal case and as the finance minister said the
government was seeking loans from international lenders.  Citadel, a private equity firm, fell 9.4 percent to the
lowest since listing shares in December 2009. EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE lost 9.7 percent. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  retreated 3.2 percent to
4,956 at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo, the lowest level since
March 24. The value of shares traded was 458 million pounds ($77
million) compared with a 12-month daily average of 742 million
pounds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cost of
insuring Egyptian debt against default rose to the highest this
month.  Citadel slid to 4.25 Egyptian pounds, bringing the five-day
loss to 27 percent. A claim filed with the public prosecutor
announced last week alleged that it bought a cement maker from
the government at a low price. Citadel said after the market
closed April 14 that it bought Helwan Portland Cement from
private owners, not the government.  “The market is extremely sensitive to this sort of news
whether or not the company denies wrongdoing,” said Omar Darwish, equity sales trader at Cairo-based Commercial
International Brokerage Co. “Having very low volumes
exaggerates the selling pressure.”  Soft Loans  Egypt  needs support to finance its budget gap and has
discussed $2.2 billion in soft loans with the  World Bank ,
Minister Samir Radwan told the state-run Middle East  News
Agency . The North African country is in talks with the
 International Monetary Fund  about obtaining $3 billion to $4
billion in soft loans, he said.  The debt risk climbed 7 basis points to 347, the highest
level since March 25, according to five-year credit default
swaps from CMA in  London .  Egypt banned Ahmed Heikal, chairman of Citadel from travel
pending an investigation, Adel El Saeed, a spokesman for the
public prosecutor’s office, said April 14. Officials at Citadel
weren’t immediately available for comment on Heikal’s
travel ban. Ahmed Ezz, the chairman of  Ezz Steel (ESRS) , the country’s
largest traded steel maker, and a former senior official in
former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s  National Democratic Party , is
on trial for corruption charges. He has denied any wrongdoing.  “There’s a lot of confusion about corruption claims filed
against prominent businessmen and uncertainty about how they
will be resolved,” said Tamer Nigm, head of sales and trading
at Cairo-based Watheeqa Securities Brokerage. “That’s affecting
the entire market, including stocks like Citadel and EFG-Hermes,
in addition to the real-estate sector."  EFG-Hermes, the country’s biggest publicly traded
investment bank, fell to 17.69 pounds, the lowest since April
2009. Ezz Steel lost 7 percent to 9.01 pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Ahmed A Namatalla} in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  