-- 
Telenor Role at VimpelCom May Shrink If Altimo Drops Agreement

-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n   a n d   E k a t e r i n a   S h a t a l o v a
-- 
2011-04-18T16:41:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/telenor-role-at-vimpelcom-may-shrink-if-altimo-drops-agreement.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Norwegian phone
company with a stake in  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP) , may have a diminished
role in the Russian wireless operator if fellow investor  Alfa
Group  fulfils a plan to cancel a  shareholders agreement .  Altimo, the arm of Russian financial firm Alfa Group that
held an  almost equal share  in VimpelCom with Telenor, said on
April 15 that it plans to terminate the companies’ governance
contract. Altimo aims to sell some of its preferred shares to
bring its  voting rights  in VimpelCom, Russia’s third-largest
mobile-phone carrier by subscribers, to less than 25 percent, it
said.  VimpelCom assumed its current form, with headquarters in
Amsterdam and trading in U.S. depositary receipts, after Telenor
and Alfa agreed in October 2009 to merge holdings in  Russia ’s
OAO VimpelCom and Ukraine’s ZAT Kyivstar. The two stakeholders
have clashed over the Russian company’s strategy, with Altimo
favoring VimpelCom’s purchase of Italy-based Wind Telecom SpA,
which added assets on four continents to create the world’s
sixth-largest telecommunications company.  “Wind and Altimo combined will now have the required
majority to alter the structure of the board, potentially
leaving Telenor frozen out of all influence,” Barry Zeitoune, a
London-based analyst with Berenberg Bank, said in a report. “If
Altimo wants to buy Telenor out, now could be the moment.”  The option of buying Telenor’s stake “hasn’t been
considered,” Evgeny Dumalkin, an Altimo spokesman in Moscow,
said by telephone.  Ruling’s ‘Window’  A London court ruling in the merger dispute that said the
main investors’ combined voting stake can’t fall below 50
percent plus one share, “gives Altimo a very tiny little window
to creep below 25 percent,” said Dag Melgaard, a Telenor
spokesman. “When and if that happens, this will open up a
completely new scenario that we will need time to reconsider.”
He declined to comment further.  Telenor fell 2.7 percent to close at 86.95 kroner in Oslo
trading. VimpelCom fell 3.4 percent to $14.06 at 12:38 p.m. in
 New York .  VimpelCom completed its merger with Wind on April 15,
saying it will spin off operations in  Egypt  and  North Korea  to
shareholders in Wind’s  Orascom Telecom Holding SAE (ORTE)  unit, North
Africa’s biggest mobile network operator. VimpelCom issued new
stock representing 20 percent of outstanding shares and 31
percent of the voting rights to investors in Wind, as well as
paying $1.5 billion in cash.  Telenor, which held more than 39 percent of VimpelCom and
36 percent of voting rights under the previous agreement, owns
25 percent of voting rights in the combined phone operator under
the Wind merger, while Altimo holds 31 percent, according to the
 plan  published in January.  Influence  “This might further decrease minority shareholders’
influence on the company’s strategy,” Victor Klimovich, an
analyst at VTB Capital in Moscow, wrote in a report. It’s likely
that Altimo, whoever buys the shares that Altimo sells, and the
holding company of Wind’s pre-merger owner,  Naguib Sawiris ,
would be able to control the board, he said.  VimpelCom carried out the Wind transaction over the
objections of Fornebu, Norway-based Telenor, which said it would
have preferred a slower expansion.  The initial shareholder agreement gave Telenor, the Nordic
region’s largest phone company, and Altimo three board members
each as well as a process for appointing three independent board
members.  “After the merger with Wind, VimpelCom becomes a global
leading telecommunications company and its corporate governance
rules now need to adequately protect its diverse shareholder
base,” Dumalkin said in a statement on April 15.  Arbitration  Telenor initiated an arbitration process with Alfa Group
and VimpelCom in January to protect its stake, contending it has
pre-emptive rights to buy shares issued by VimpelCom for Wind.  Any board changes, which are “entirely in the hands of”
the nominating committee, would be proposed for the next
shareholder meeting in June, VimpelCom Chief Executive Officer
Alexander Izosimov said in a phone interview April 15.  VimpelCom announced its plan to buy the Wind assets
controlled by Egyptian billionaire Sawiris on Oct. 4. The deal,
valued at about $6.5 billion at the time, doubles VimpelCom’s
mobile-customer base to about 181 million in 20 countries,
adding subscribers in  Italy ,  Pakistan ,  Bangladesh  and  Zimbabwe ,
as well as a shareholding in Globalive Wireless  Canada . Wind
Chief Executive Officer Khaled Bichara will become president and
coordinate actions aimed at cost savings of $2.5 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net ;
Ekaterina Shatalova in Moscow at 
 eshatalova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  