-- 
Mapletree Commercial to Raise S$893.2 Million in IPO

-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s
-- 
2011-04-19T02:40:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/temasek-s-mapletree-commercial-said-to-raise-718-million-in-singapore-ipo.html
(Corrects currency in 11th paragraph of story published on
April 18.)  Mapletree Commercial Trust, the
owner of properties including  Singapore ’s VivoCity shopping
mall, raised S$893.2 million ($718 million) in an initial public
offering.  Mapletree Commercial sold securities at S$0.88 per unit,
having marketed them to investors at S$0.84 to S$0.91 each,
according to an e-mailed media statement. The trust, a unit of
Mapletree Investments Pte, owned by Singapore state investment
firm  Temasek Holdings Pte , delayed its initial public offering
in the city last month because of volatile markets.  The sale offers a “unique exposure to prime assets in
Singapore, a stable and resilient portfolio and an unparalleled
platform for growth,” Amy Ng, chief executive officer of the
trust’s manager, said at a briefing in Singapore today. If an
over-allotment option is fully exercised, about S$983 million
will be raised, she said.  Mapletree Commercial is selling shares after Singapore’s
record economic growth drove office and retail rents higher for
at least three straight quarters, rebounding from a decline in
2009. The benchmark  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) , which lost as much as
4.5 percent in the week after  Japan ’s strongest earthquake on
March 11, has since recovered and exceeded the levels before the
temblor.  Rising Yield  The final price of S$0.88 translates to a distribution
yield of about 5.7 percent for the financial year to March 2012,
based on the trust’s own dividend estimate of 4.98 Singapore
cents per unit, according to the statement. The distribution
yield will grow to 6.2 percent the following year.  The forecast yield growth does not take into account any
future acquisitions the trust may make, nor any enhancement of
existing assets such as Vivocity, Ng said.  Mapletree Commercial may grow its portfolio by 5.1 million
square feet of net lettable assets, worth about S$3 billion, to
6.9 million square feet under the right of first refusal
agreement it has with Mapletree Investments, she said.  Of the total offering, about 30 percent went to four
cornerstone investors --  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , Hillsbro Capital Ltd.,
Itochu Corp. and NTUC FairPrice Co-operative Ltd. -- who
purchased a combined S$266 million, according to the statement.
The largest was Asian life insurer AIA, which bought about S$121
million of units and will hold 7.4 percent of the trust at the
time of listing.  VivoCity  About 16 percent of units have been reserved for Singapore
retail investors who will be able to subscribe through a
separate offering that opens tomorrow and runs until April 25,
the statement said. The units will start trading on April 27 and
the sale was managed by  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and CIMB Group
Holdings Bhd.  VivoCity  is the trust’s biggest asset, making up 76 percent
of its revenue. Funds raised from the unit sale will be used to
buy Bank of America Merrill Lynch HarbourFront and PSA Building,
two office developments in the southern part of Singapore owned
by Mapletree Investments.  Vivocity attracted 43.6 million visitors in 2010, a 9.9
percent increase on 2009, while retail sales grew by 12.3
percent to S$741.7 million, Ng said.  Separately, Mapletree Investment Group Chief Financial
Officer Wong Mun Hoong said at the briefing today that the
company’s China fund isn’t mature enough for an initial public
offer in the near term.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katrina Nicholas at 
 Knicholas2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Klemming at 
 lklemming@bloomberg.net  