-- 
Entergy Files Suit to Stop Vermont From Closing Nuclear Plant Next Year

-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 
2011-04-18T20:37:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/entergy-files-suit-to-stop-vermont-from-closing-nuclear-plant-next-year.html
Entergy Corp. (ETR) , the second-largest
operator of nuclear power plants in the U.S., sued the state of
Vermont to prevent it from shutting down the Vermont Yankee
plant next year.  Two Entergy subsidiaries asked for an order from the U.S.
District Court in Burlington, Vermont to prevent the forced
closing of the plant in March, the New Orleans-based company
said today.  Vermont breached an agreement with Entergy when it
announced it wouldn’t agree to the plant’s remaining open after
March 2012, the company said in the lawsuit. Vermont passed a
law in 2006 that transferred authority to approve the operation
of the nuclear plant to its General Assembly.  “We believe the state of  Vermont  changed the rules on
us,” Richard Smith, president of Entergy Wholesale Commodities,
said today in a conference call. “We feel we have made every
effort to find a resolution without resorting to litigation, but
we were not successful.”  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission renewed Yankee’s
license this year to operate through March 2032, according to
the complaint. Entergy said in the suit that a state may not
interfere with the federal government’s “exclusive authority
over the operation of a nuclear power plant.”  The suit names as defendants Governor Peter Shumlin,
Attorney General William Sorrell and three Vermont Public
Service Board members. The board oversees public utilities.  Governor’s Comments  “We think this is an example of a company that doesn’t
want to follow the law,” Shumlin said today in a telephone
press conference. “The NRC does not believe Vermont doesn’t
have authority over the future of its nuclear power plants.”  “We’re going to fight very hard to stop operations in
March 2012,” Sorrell said at the press conference. “We hope to
have a decision favorable to us from the District Court.”  Entergy entered into a memorandum of understanding with the
Public Service Board in 2002 when it acquired the plant, making
concessions on energy rates in exchange for approval of the
purchase. Entergy said the board has breached that agreement.  The company said it attempted to find a buyer for the plant
last year. Smith said on the conference call that the company
was unable to reach a deal with interested parties “because of
political uncertainty in Vermont, specifically Vermont
officials’ stated intent to shut down the plant.”  Operating Since 1972  Vermont Yankee, operating since 1972 as the only nuclear
power plant in the state, provides about one-third of Vermont’s
electricity, according to Entergy. It also supplies power to
wholesale energy markets in  New Hampshire  and  Massachusetts ,
Smith said.  The nuclear plant “emits virtually no  greenhouse gases ,
and provides more than $100 million in annual economic benefits
to the state of Vermont,” Entergy said today in a statement. It
employs about 650 people.  Entergy is also a supplier of electrical power to  Arkansas ,
 Louisiana ,  Mississippi  and  Texas .  The company’s shares fell 55 cents, or 0.8 percent, to
$65.97 at 4:03 p.m. in  New York  Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock has dropped 6.9 percent this year.  Exelon Corp. (EXC)  is the largest U.S. nuclear power plant
operator.  The case is Entergy Corp. v. Shumlin, 1:11-cv-00099, U.S.
District Court, District of Vermont (Burlington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York
at   djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  