-- 
Estonia Needs Budget Ceilings, Fiscal Watchdog, OECD Recommends

-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 
2011-04-18T08:56:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/estonia-needs-budget-ceilings-fiscal-watchdog-oecd-recommends.html
Estonia , which adopted the euro in
January, should establish spending ceilings and create a fiscal
watchdog to help moderate effects of the economic cycle, the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development said.  Multiyear expenditure limits should be adjusted to account
for the strength of the economy, helping generate surpluses in
times of growth to cover deficits when times are bad, the OECD
said in a report published today on its website. An independent
“fiscal watchdog” would help enforce this discipline, it said.  “A public expenditure rule is likely to be helpful by
restraining expenditure growth during an upswing,” according to
the Paris-based OECD, a coalition of 34 countries that promotes
economic development.  Estonia’s central government spending doubled from 2004 to
2008 as the country went through a property-driven boom. The
Baltic country adopted austerity measures totaling more than 9
percent of gross domestic product in 2009 to meet the deficit
goal for joining the euro as it was mired in its worst recession
since gaining independence from the  Soviet Union .  “There is little doubt that this pro-cyclical policy
aggravated the downturn,” the OECD said. The nation’s economic
production shrank almost 20 percent from its peak in 2008 until
growth resumed last year.  Estonia still had the best public finances among the 17
members of the currency bloc last year, according to the
European Commission. The country had a 2010 surplus of 0.1
percent of GDP and public debt of 6.6 percent, the national
statistics office said last month.  Deficit Goal  After increasing its majority last month, Estonia’s ruling
coalition made achieving a structural  budget surplus , which
assumes the economy is growing at its full potential, by 2014
its key goal. The ruling parties reiterated a pledge to make
budget deficits illegal unless the economy is contracting.  Deficit targets are “a useful benchmark for fiscal policy
in the medium-term, but the difficulties of accurately assessing
the cyclical position of the economy and, therefore, estimating
the structural balance, limit the effectiveness of such a target
for guiding fiscal policy,” the OECD said.  The OECD also recommended Estonia increase job training to
prevent high levels of unemployment from becoming entrenched.
Estonia’s unemployment rate dropped to 10.2 percent last month
from a high of 14.6 percent in March 2010. It was 1.4 percent in
December 2006.  In addition, the government should set up a special court
to handle corporate bankruptcies and reduce the number of
municipalities to improve efficiency, the OECD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  