-- 
Stocks Sink on U.S. Credit Outlook as Euro Falls on Debt Crises

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h ,   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-04-18T20:43:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/euro-weakens-on-greece-debt-concerns-oil-snaps-three-day-gain-kiwi-drops.html
U.S. stocks sank the most in a
month, oil slid and gold rose to a record after  Standard &
Poor’s  cut the American credit outlook to negative and concern
about  Europe ’s debt crisis grew. Greek two-year bond yields
surged to 20 percent for the first time since at least 1998.  The  S&P 500  tumbled 1.1 percent to 1,305.14 at 4 p.m. in
New York, its worst drop since March 16, and the Stoxx Europe
600 Index slid 1.7 percent. Ten-year Treasury notes gained,
sending yields down four basis points to 3.37 percent, amid
speculation S&P’s move will motivate lawmakers to pass a budget
that requires less borrowing. The euro lost 1.4 percent to
$1.4234 and Portuguese debt-insurance costs reached a record.
The S&P GSCI index of commodities slid 1.2 percent as oil sank.  S&P assigned a one-in-three chance it will lower the U.S.
rating in the next two years, saying the credit crisis and
recession that began in 2008 worsened a deterioration in public
finances. Budget differences among Democrats and Republicans
remain wide and it may take until after the 2012 elections to
get a proposal that addresses the concern, S&P said.  “The fact that the Dow and S&P and  Nasdaq  fell so sharply
after they came out and said that sends a warning to politicians
that there are going to be dire consequences if they don’t get
their act together,” said  Barton Biggs , who runs New York-based
hedge fund Traxis Partners LP, in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Street Smart.” “I think they will get their act
together. We have a system of government that is painful, but in
the long run does the right things.”  Broad Decline  Gauges of energy and financial companies had the biggest
declines among the 10 main groups in the S&P 500, all of which
dropped. Caterpillar Inc., Bank of America Corp. and Alcoa Inc.
lost at least 2.3 percent to lead declines in 29 of 30 stocks in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which slid 140.24 points, or
1.1 percent, to 12,201.59. Gap Inc. slumped 3 percent after
Goldman Sachs cut its rating on the shares to “sell” from
“neutral” and said it sees long-term declines in comparable-
store sales. The Nasdaq Composite Index lost 1.1 percent.  The S&P 500 has surged 93 percent from its bear-market low
in March 2009 amid higher-than-estimated earnings and government
stimulus measures. The Federal Reserve and U.S. agencies have
lent, spent or guaranteed about $8.2 trillion to lift the
economy from the worst slump since the Great Depression,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Global Retreat  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 countries
tumbled 1.5 percent. Global stocks also slid after  China 
increased banks’ reserve requirements to lock up cash and cool
inflation, and central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
monetary tightening will continue for “some time.”  Thirty-year Treasury yields lost two basis points to 4.45
percent. Two-year yields slipped three basis points to 0.67
percent. The dollar slid 0.6 percent to 82.66 yen, the lowest
level of the month, while still strengthening against 14 of 16
major peers.  The cost to protect U.S. corporate bonds from default rose
to the highest level this month. The Markit CDX North America
Investment Grade Index, which investors use to hedge against
losses on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness,
added 1.6 basis points to a mid-price of 95.62 basis points,
according to index administrator Markit Group Ltd.  S&P cut its long-term U.S. outlook from stable, while
affirming its ‘AAA’ long-term and ‘A-1+’ short-term ratings.  ‘Fiscal Destiny’  “This is another indication of the need for the U.S. to
better control its fiscal destiny, both for its sake and that of
the global economy,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer at Newport Beach, California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond funds.
“Absent credible medium-term fiscal reform, every segment of
U.S. society would be faced with higher borrowing costs, a
weaker dollar and a less bright outlook for employment,
investment and growth.”  S&P said in its statement that there is a “material risk”
U.S. officials may not reach an agreement on how to address
budgetary challenges by 2013.  Under President Barack Obama’s fiscal year 2012 budget,
released in February, the total debt subject to the ceiling
would be $20.8 trillion in 2016. The plan  House Republicans 
approved April 15, written by Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , would need a debt ceiling of at least $19.5 trillion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  ‘Shot Across the Bow’  “It’s truly a shot across the bow and a message to
 Washington , which has been clowning around on this and playing
politics when they should toss ideology aside and focus on
achievement,” said  David Ader , head of government bond strategy
at Stamford, Connecticut-based CRT Capital Group LLC. “It’s a
big deal. They’ve put us on notice.”  Treasury Assistant Secretary  Mary Miller  said today that
S&P’s outlook on the U.S. credit rating “underestimates” the
nation’s leadership.  “We believe S&P’s negative outlook underestimates the
ability of America’s leaders to come together to address the
difficult fiscal challenges facing the nation,” Miller said in
a statement.  About 18 stocks declined for every one that gained in the
Stoxx Europe 600. Commerzbank AG, Spain’s biggest lender, and
France’s Societe Generale SA fell more than 3.8 percent.  Smith &
Nephew Plc (SN/) , which had been identified as a bid target for
 Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  by analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.,
Morgan Stanley and Investec Securities, declined 3 percent after
 Synthes Inc. (SYST)  said it’s in talks about a possible takeover by
J&J.  Euro, Greek Bonds  The euro depreciated against 13 of its 16 major
counterparts, losing 1.9 percent versus the yen. Portugal’s 10-
year yield climbed to a record 584 basis points above benchmark
German bunds while the Greek spread reached 1,132 basis points,
the most since Bloomberg began collecting the data in 1998.  Credit-default swaps insuring Greek bonds jumped 66 basis
points to 1,221, signaling a 64.5 percent chance of a default
within five years, while those for Portugal climbed 18.5 basis
points to 616.5, according to CMA.  Restructuring of Greece’s debt is inevitable and only a
question of time, Die Welt cited a Greek government minister as
saying, without naming the minister. Greece isn’t discussing
restructuring its debt, Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou 
said April 16 in Washington. European Central Bank Governing
Council members signaled over the weekend they will keep
tightening monetary policy this year to curb inflation.  ‘A Lot of Risks’  “The European story has a lot of risks to it as  Germany  is
very strong but peripheral Europe is clearly quite weak, so the
last thing they need is higher  interest rates ,” Adrian Mowat,
JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Hong Kong-based chief Asia and emerging-
markets strategist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview.  The yield on Germany’s 10-year bund declined 13 basis
points to 3.25 percent. The 10-year gilt yield slipped four
basis points to 3.56 percent. The pound fell 0.4 percent versus
the dollar after Ernst & Young LLP’s Item Club cut its economic
outlook for the U.K.  Oil fell for the first time in four days in  New York  after
Saudi Arabia, the world’s biggest crude exporter, said the
global market has enough supplies to meet demand. Crude for May
delivery slumped 2.3 percent to $107.12 a barrel.  Cocoa for July delivery declined 3.2 percent to $3,057 a
metric ton on ICE Futures U.S. in New York amid concern demand
for commodities  may slow as China fights inflation. Sugar and
coffee also fell, while wheat, silver and corn gains. Gold for
June delivery climbed 0.5 percent to $1,492.90.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael P. Regan at   mregan12@bloomberg.net  