-- 
Dollar Declines Against Yen to Lowest in April as S&P Reduces U.S. Outlook

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-18T14:53:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/euro-falls-versus-dollar-yen-on-concern-sovereign-debt-crisis-worsening.html
The dollar dropped to its lowest
level this month against the yen as  Standard & Poor’s  reduced
the U.S. credit outlook to negative while affirming its AAA
long-term credit rating.  The euro fell the most in a month versus the yen as yields
on  Greece ’s two-year notes increased to 20 percent for the first
time. New Zealand’s dollar dropped against all of its major
counterparts as the South Pacific nation’s inflation slowed. The
U.S. currency fell for a third day versus the yen as S&P cited
rising budget deficits and debt.  “It’s a kick in the pants for authorities to now get their
act together in terms of a coherent long-term deficit/debt
plan,” said  Alan Ruskin , global head of Group of 10 foreign-
exchange strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in  New York . “It’s given
a little bit of a lifeline to euro-dollar.”  The dollar depreciated 0.9 percent to 82.40 yen at 10:49
a.m. in New York, from 83.13 on April 15. The U.S. currency
gained 1.4 percent to $1.4229 versus the euro, from $1.4430,
after briefly paring its advance. The euro dropped as much as
2.5 percent to 116.98 yen in the biggest intraday decrease since
March 17 before trading at 117.06, compared with 119.96.  The yen rose versus most of its major counterparts on
reduced demand for assets related to economic growth as China
said yesterday it will raise banks’ reserve requirements to cool
inflation. Central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said monetary
tightening will continue for some time.  New Zealand  Dollar  The New Zealand dollar dropped as much as 1.8 percent to
78.53 U.S. cents in its biggest intraday drop since falling 2.2
percent on March 17 before trading at 78.57 cents, compared with
79.95 on April 15. The kiwi slid 1.7 percent to 78.56 yen.  The nation’s consumer prices rose 0.8 percent in the first
quarter from three months earlier, the government said today.
The median forecast of 12 economists in a Bloomberg News survey
was for a 1 percent increase.  The euro fell against the yen as Greek two-year government
bond yields surged to 20 percent for the first time since at
least 1998, when Bloomberg began compiling the data. The cost of
insuring Greek government debt rose to a record today, with the
contracts indicating investors see a greater than 64.5 percent
chance the nation will default within five years.  “The euro is being pressured,” said  Jack Spitz , managing
director of foreign exchange at National Bank of Canada in
Toronto. “Much of the price action is motivated by events and
news of Europe. Credit spreads are widening out in the euro-zone
periphery, and the market is taking back short U.S. dollar
positions.” A short is a bet an assets will drop in value.  Greece’s Debt  The government of Greece asked the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union to extend the maturities of all the
country’s debt, Eleftherotypia newspaper said.  Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  brought the
request to EU finance ministers at their meeting in Hungary on
April 8-9 and to representatives of the EU,  European Central
Bank  and IMF who visited Athens in April, the Athens-based
newspaper said, without saying where it got the information.  “Restructuring is not an issue we’re discussing,”
Papaconstantinou said in Washington on April 16.  Support for the True Finns, whose leader Timo Soini has
said taxpayers shouldn’t have helped rescue Greece or Ireland,
jumped almost 15 points to 19 percent in  Finland ’s elections,
the Justice Ministry said.  The True Finns will seek a majority that allows them to
block the euro region’s bailout mechanism, Soini has said. The
pro- Europe  National Coalition led by Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen won 20.4 percent to become Finland’s biggest party for
the first time.  ‘Some Problems’  “We’re looking at a couple of days of uncertainty about
who will form the next coalition government in Finland, what
their political stripes might be, and how they feel about the
euro-zone bailouts,” said  Gareth Berry , a foreign-exchange
strategist at UBS AG in  Singapore . “There are potentially some
problems for the euro flowing from this.”  Concern the euro region’s periphery is struggling to
contain its debt may not be enough to stop ECB policy makers
from raising  interest rates  again this year.  Forecasts that the key rate will be increased by another
half-percentage point in 2011 are “well-founded,” Austria’s
Ewald Nowotny told Bloomberg News in  Washington  on April 16. Luc Coene of  Belgium  said in an interview yesterday that monetary
“conditions are too accommodative.”  The euro has strengthened 3.08 percent this year, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which measure the 10
most widely traded currencies. It has trailed only the Norwegian
krone and the Swedish krona.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  