-- 
European Stocks, U.S. Futures Decline; Salzgitter, Banks Slide

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-04-18T07:48:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/european-u-s-stock-futures-decline-synthes-may-gain-philips-may-slide.html
European stocks declined, extending
last week’s first weekly drop in four, as banks and insurance
companies slipped. Asian shares and U.S. futures retreated.  Salzgitter AG (SZG)  fell 2.1 percent after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. downgraded the steelmaker. Gauges of European banks and
insurance companies both retreated more than 1 percent.  Synthes
Inc. (SYST)  soared 8.2 percent after the Swiss company confirmed it is
holding talks about a possible merger with Johnson & Johnson.
 Solvay SA (SOLB)  rose 3.4 percent after BofA Merrill Lynch Global
Research recommended the chemical maker.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index slid 0.4 percent to 276.71 at
8:46 a.m. in  London . The benchmark gauge last week lost 1.4
percent as Alcoa Inc. and Google Inc. kicked off the U.S.
earnings season with results that missed analysts’ estimates and
the  International Monetary Fund  cut its growth forecasts.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell 0.4 percent as  China 
increased its banks’ reserve requirements and central bank
Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said monetary tightening will continue
for some time. Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures expiring in
June slid 0.6 percent to 1,311.3. Nine of the benchmark
measure’s companies report quarterly earnings today including
Citigroup Inc., the third-biggest U.S. bank.  European Central Bank Governing Council members signaled
that they will keep tightening monetary policy this year as the
euro area’s economy strengthens and inflation accelerates at its
fastest pace since 2008.  European  Interest Rates   Investor expectations of an increase in the benchmark
interest rate by another 50 basis points in 2011 are “well-
founded,” Austria’s Ewald Nowotny told Bloomberg News in
 Washington  on April 16. Luc Coene of  Belgium  said in an
interview on the same day that monetary “conditions are too
accommodative.”  In  Greece , Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said
the country has no plans for debt restructuring even as German
officials openly discussed the possibility and investors charged
a record amount to insure the country’s obligations.
Papaconstantinou spoke in a Washington interview on April 16.  Salzgitter lost 2.2 percent to 52.32 euros after Goldman
downgraded  Germany ’s second-largest steelmaker to “sell” from
“neutral.”  Smith & Nephew Plc (SN/)  retreated 3.5 percent to 672.5 pence
after Synthes confirmed that it has held talks with Johnson &
Johnson. Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analysts in January said
Johnson & Johnson may bid for the U.K. orthopaedics company.  Nestle, Synthes  Nestle SA (NESN) , the maker of KitKat chocolate bars and Nescafe
Gold Blend instant coffee, slid 3.4 percent to 52.65 francs as
shareholders lost the right to the latest dividend. Accounting
for the lost payment, the shares were unchanged.  Synthes surged 8.2 percent to 150 Swiss francs after the
biggest maker of devices to treat  bone fractures  and trauma
confirmed that it has held talks with Johnson & Johnson. A
person briefed on the discussions told Bloomberg News on April
16 that a deal is far from certain.  Solvay rallied 3.4 percent to 94.58 euros after BofA
Merrill Lynch upgraded the Belgian chemical maker to “buy”
from “underperform” and added the shares to its “Europe 1”
list.  ArcelorMittal (MT)  advanced 1 percent to 24.40 euros after
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. raised its recommendation for the
world’s largest steelmaker to “buy” from “neutral.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  