-- 
Hewlett-Packard Says Jan Zadak to Replace Hogan in Sales

-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a   a n d   D i a n e   B r a d y
-- 
2011-04-18T21:03:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/hewlett-packard-says-jan-zadak-to-replace-tom-hogan-in-enterprise-sales.html
Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  said Jan Zadak
will become head of business-computing sales to replace the
departing Tom Hogan, the latest management shuffle under  Leo Apotheker , who became as chief executive officer in November.  Zadak, managing director for Hewlett-Packard’s operations
in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, will become executive
vice president of enterprise business sales and marketing,
effective May 1, Hewlett-Packard said in a statement today.  Apotheker helped appoint five new directors in January and
unveiled plans in March to push Hewlett-Packard more deeply into
software while reviving the personal-computer business. The
company issued a profit forecast in February that missed
analysts’ predictions, underscoring the challenge facing
Apotheker as he aims to transform Hewlett-Packard into a
provider of more computing and programs via the Internet and
lessen its dependence on PC sales to consumers.  Zadak previously led enterprise business sales for the
 Europe , Middle East and Africa. He joined Compaq Computer in
1997, before it was bought by Hewlett-Packard in 2002.  Hogan came to Hewlett-Packard in 2006 from Vignette Corp.
to run its software business after three straight years of
losses at the unit. Hogan had also been a 17-year veteran of
International Business Machines Corp. Last April, Hurd named
Hogan to take over sales and marketing for the company’s $57.1
billion enterprise business.  Hewlett-Packard, based in Palo Alto,  California , slipped 51
cents to $39.75 at 4 p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite
trading. The stock has slumped 5.6 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Ricadela in  San Francisco  at 
 aricadela@bloomberg.net ;
Diane Brady at  at
 Dbrady11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  