-- 
Texas and South May Warm Through Next Week, CWG’s Rogers Says

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-18T11:46:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/texas-and-south-may-warm-through-next-week-cwg-s-rogers-says.html
Texas  and the southeastern U.S.
have a high chance of being warmer than normal through the
middle of next week before that trend shifts into the Mid-
Atlantic and Northeast regions, according to  Matt Rogers ,
president of  Commodity Weather Group LLC , in Bethesda, Maryland.  Rogers’ 6- to 10-day outlook shows an area with a greater
chance of warming extending from southern Ontario through the
Great Lakes region south to the U.S. Gulf Coast and Texas. Two
potentially cooler pockets may also develop in the Pacific
Northwest and parts of California, as well as in the upper Great
Plains.  The U.S. South may be “much above normal” in terms of
temperatures from April 23 to April 27, he said.  “This is a tricky time of year when major, completely
opposite, types of air masses can mash up against each other,”
Rogers said in his note to clients today.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  New York ’s average temperature in mid-to-late April is
about 54 degrees Fahrenheit (12 degrees Celsius), according to
 MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg, Maryland . The average
temperature in  St. Louis  is about 58 degrees; in Boston, 50; in
Philadelphia, 55; in Atlanta, 62; and in Dallas, 66.  In his 11- to 15-day forecast, which covers April 28 to May
2, Rogers calls for warming along the U.S. East Coast extending
north into New England and the Canadian Maritimes. Areas with
the potential to cool are the Pacific Northwest through the
upper Great Plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  