-- 
Texas and South May Warm Through Next Week, Forecasters Say

-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 
2011-04-18T12:45:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/texas-and-south-may-warm-through-next-week-forecasters-say-1-.html
Texas  and the southeastern U.S.
have a high chance of being warmer than normal through the
middle of next week before that trend shifts into the mid-
Atlantic and Northeast regions, according to forecasters.  The 6- to 10-day outlooks from  Commodity Weather Group LLC ,
in Bethesda, Maryland, and MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,
Maryland, both show a greater chance of warming extending from
southern Ontario through the Great Lakes region south to the
Gulf Coast and Texas.  CWG’s  Matt Rogers  forecasts two potentially cooler pockets
developing in the Pacific Northwest and parts of California as
well as in the upper Great Plains. MDA has cooling occurring in
the West and  Rocky Mountains .  Both call for the South to be “much above normal” in
temperature from April 23 to April 27. MDA extends the area of
high temperatures into the Ohio Valley.  “This is a tricky time of year when major, completely
opposite, types of air masses can mash up against each other,”
Rogers said in a note to clients today.  Natural gas traders monitor  weather forecasts  to determine
whether temperatures may boost heating or cooling demand.
Predictions of below-normal or above-normal temperatures may
prompt traders to buy or sell gas futures. Commodity traders
watch precipitation forecasts for potential impact on planting
and yields.  Average Temperatures  New York ’s average temperature in mid-to-late April is
about 54 degrees Fahrenheit (12 degrees Celsius), according to
 MDA EarthSat . The average temperature in St. Louis is about 58
degrees; in Boston, 50; in Philadelphia, 55; in Atlanta, 62; and
in Dallas, 66.  In his 11- to 15-day forecast, which covers April 28 to May
2, Rogers calls for warming along the East Coast extending north
into  New England  and the Canadian Maritimes. Areas with the
potential to cool are the Pacific Northwest through the upper
Great Plans.  MDA’s 11- to 15-day forecast calls for the warmth to be
centered on the South and mid-Atlantic states with New England
being seasonable. It also predicts a larger area of colder
weather from the Pacific Coast to Wisconsin and extending as far
south as Utah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in  Boston  at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  