-- 
Texas Instruments’ Forecast Falls Short on Japanese Demand

-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   I a n   K i n g
-- 
2011-04-18T22:41:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/texas-instruments-profit-forecast-falls-short-on-japan-mobile-chip-slump.html
Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , the largest
analog-chip maker, forecast second-quarter revenue and profit
that fell short of some analysts’ estimates as lower Japanese
demand and falling mobile-phone chip sales hurt orders.  Profit in the current quarter will be 52 cents to 60 cents
a share on sales of $3.41 billion to $3.69 billion, the Dallas-
based company said in a statement today. That compares with the
average analyst prediction of 63 cents in profit on $3.53
billion of sales, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Texas Instruments, whose earnings provide a broad guide of
demand across the electronics industry, said the March 11
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  curbed local demand and cut
output at the plants it operates, as well as those of its
customers and suppliers. The disaster cost the company $20
million in revenue in the first quarter. Sales of so-called
baseband chips used in mobile phones also declined.  “This is the first big guy to report how they were
impacted” by the Japan earthquake, said  Doug Freedman , an
analyst at Gleacher & Co. in  San Francisco . He rates Texas
Instruments shares “buy.”  Texas Instruments slipped to $34.12 in late trading after
the announcement. The stock earlier dropped 20 cents to $34.79
at 4 p.m. on the New York Stock Exchange. The shares have
advanced 7 percent this year.  Japan’s Impact  The company will have a better read on how long business
will be affected by the earthquake later in the quarter, Chief
Financial Officer Kevin March said in an interview today. Texas
Instruments gets about 10 percent of sales in Japan.  First-quarter net income rose to $666 million, or 55 cents
a share, from $658 million, or 52 cents, a year earlier, the
company said today in a statement. Sales increased to $3.39
billion. Analysts on average predicted per-share earnings of 58
cents and revenue of $3.39 billion.  Texas Instruments is the biggest maker of analog chips,
which go into everything from e-book readers to industrial air
conditioners. These chips perform functions such as power
regulation and the conversion of touch and sound into electronic
signals. As more everyday items such as dishwashers and cars
have added electronic functions, older analog technologies have
resurged.  Baseband Revenue  Templeton is getting the company out of the market for
digital-signal processors that manage radio functions in mobile
phones -- an area Texas Instruments once dominated, as the main
supplier to  Nokia Oyj. (NOK1V)  Revenue from those baseband chips dropped
by $100 million in the first quarter, or $50 million more than
expected, the company said.  The shift may accelerate in coming quarters, said Tristan Gerra, an analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco, who
has a “neutral” rating on the shares and doesn’t own the
stock.  “The company has still got about $1.7 billion of revenue
from baseband, and that goes to zero by the end of 2012,” Gerra
said.  The chipmaker announced April 4 that it agreed to buy rival
National Semiconductor Corp. for about $6.5 billion to advance
its push into analog semiconductors.  In March, Texas Instruments said “substantial damage” to
one of its plants in Japan caused by the earthquake would hurt
sales in the first and second quarters. The plant in Miho,
Japan, produced about 10 percent of Texas Instruments’ output by
revenue. The company has switched work to other facilities and
aims to bring the damaged factory back to “full shipment
capability” in September.  Events in Japan are expected to reduce earnings per share
by 5 cents in the current quarter, the company said.  Texas Instruments ranked second behind  Santa Clara ,
California-based  Intel Corp. (INTC)  among U.S. chipmakers in total
sales last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  