-- 
Fisher, Lockhart Say Rising Oil Prices Threaten U.S. Economic Growth

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   a n d   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-04-18T18:20:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/fed-s-fisher-lockhart-say-rising-oil-prices-threaten-growth.html
Rising  oil prices  threaten U.S.
growth, Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher 
and Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said.  “It is a double whammy” as “it slows down our economy”
and “adds to inflationary pressures,” Fisher said on a panel
discussion in Atlanta today. “It adds to the volatility of the
financial system,” he said.  Lockhart said at the same event that he expects a “soft”
first quarter in the U.S. in part because of the impact of the
rising cost of gasoline on  consumer spending .  U.S. central bankers are debating how to address rising
inflation and when to start tightening policy after the Fed ends
its purchases of $600 billion of Treasuries in June. Federal
Reserve Bank of Richmond President Jeffrey Lacker and
Philadelphia’s  Charles Plosser  have indicated they’re concerned
about prices, with Lacker saying the central bank must tighten
credit before inflation gains speed.  Lockhart, who has voiced support for the central bank’s
plan to buy the $600 billion of Treasuries, said that so far
“the economy seems to be absorbing that higher cost without
severe reaction.” If oil prices top $150 a barrel for a
sustained period, “it could have a more serious effect,” and
“we could be in recessionary territory,” he said.  On April 11, crude oil traded in New York touched $113.46 a
barrel, the highest since September 2008. Crude oil for May
delivery slid $2.72, or 2.5 percent, to $106.94 a barrel at
11:30 a.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Earlier, it
touched $106.59. Prices have risen 28 percent in the past year.  Voting Rotation  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, with
Fisher, 62, voting this year. When Fisher last sat on the
committee in 2008, he dissented five times in favor of tighter
policy. He has led the Dallas Fed since 2005. Lockhart doesn’t
have a vote this year.  Fisher, who has criticized the Fed’s asset purchase program
and expressed concern about rising prices, said the central bank
has “successfully fought off” deflation.  “There is a lot of liquidity in the system,” Fisher said.  At a separate event in Atlanta later today, Fisher said
that “no further amount of monetary accommodation would be
wise” and the Fed might need “to curtail” some of its planned
stimulus as the economy improves. He said “unpleasant” price
reports may occur in the next couple of months.  ‘Gaining Steam’  “That recovery is slowly gaining steam and at least to my
eyes seems self-sustaining,” Fisher said. “Adding still more
liquidity or not withdrawing it in a timely manner,” would “do
nothing to quell the inflationary pressures” and may
“compound” them.  Fisher, Lockhart and other Fed officials will update their
economic forecasts and review the Fed’s plan to purchase $600
billion in U.S. Treasuries at their April 26-27 meeting amid a
strengthening labor market and higher inflation.  The Fed “can help create the conditions in which jobs are
created,” Lockhart said. “We have had very accommodative
monetary policy for quite some time and only recently have we
seen  job creation  take effect,” he said. The Labor Department
said this month that the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.8
percent in March, the lowest level in two years.  Overseas Shocks  Uncertainty over fiscal policy and shocks overseas in  Japan 
and the Middle East are weighing on business confidence,
Lockhart said. Standard & Poor’s today put a “negative”
outlook on the AAA credit rating of the U.S., citing a
“material risk” the nation’s leaders will fail to deal with
rising budget deficits and debt.  Fisher said the action by S&P is a “good signal” if “it
will focus the attention of those that have the responsibility”
for balancing the budget. The  bond market  plays a “powerful
role” and it’s “encouraging” if it puts pressure on Congress
to address the deficit, he said.  Fisher told reporters after the second event in Atlanta
that he expects he will “be at the front of the pack in
advocating for tightening,” and that the FOMC will probably
discuss “curtailing” accommodation at its next meeting.  “Before you start tightening, you stop loosening,” he
said. “I still think we have a self-sustaining recovery, but I
expect to have some moments of hesitancy and that may well have
occurred in the first quarter,” due in part to the rise in
energy prices.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  