-- 
Fed’s Bullard Says Economy to Weather Shocks, Strengthen

-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-04-18T18:23:31Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/fed-s-bullard-says-economy-to-weather-shocks-strengthen-1-.html
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said he’s still optimistic on the U.S.
economy this year, even after a weaker-than-projected first
quarter and global risks to growth.  “The outlook for the remainder of 2011 remains reasonably
strong,” Bullard said in remarks today in Louisville, Kentucky.
Turmoil in the Middle East and North Africa, the tsunami in
 Japan , the  U.S. budget deficit  and the European sovereign debt
crisis are likely to be “resolved without becoming global
macroeconomic shocks,” he said.  Bullard is among the last Fed officials to speak before
policy makers next meet April 26-27, where they will update
economic projections after recent reports of a stronger labor
market and rising inflation. Bullard has said since February
that the Fed should trim its plan to buy $600 billion in  U.S.
Treasuries  through June while cautioning he doesn’t see enough
support from his colleagues for that change.  Once the Fed completes the Treasury purchases, the policy-
setting  Federal Open Market Committee  may “be on hold then for
a while,” Bullard told reporters after the speech. “‘Hold’
would mean that the balance sheet stays at whatever size it’s
at, and that the policy rate stays very low and we keep” the
language stating it will remain low for an “extended period,”
he said.  Bullard reiterated he would like to reduce the Fed’s total
bond purchases, saying, “I don’t know if I could rally any
support for this or not, but I do think that’s a reasonable
thing to do.”  Balance Sheet  “I prefer to take action on the balance sheet first and
then come to  interest rates  a little bit later,” he told
reporters. “One thing you could do with the balance sheet is
allow the runoff to start to occur again,” Bullard said.  Prior to the Fed’s August 2010 meeting, housing debt on the
Fed’s balance sheet was not replaced when it matured, causing
the central bank’s total assets to decrease. Assets peaked at
$2.35 trillion on May 19, 2010, after the first round of large-
scale asset purchases and fell to $2.3 trillion as assets
matured. Since the second round of purchases began, Fed assets
have climbed to $2.67 trillion.  The Commerce Department will report next week that the U.S.
economy grew at a 1.8 percent annual pace in the first quarter
after expanding at a 3.1 percent rate in the prior three months,
according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News survey.
Like Bullard, economists expect the economy to pick up strength
in the remainder of the year and grow 2.9 percent in 2011,
according to a separate Bloomberg survey.  Unemployment Rate   The U.S. unemployment rate fell to 8.8 percent in March,
the lowest level in two years, as the economy has added 478,000
jobs so far in 2011.  Bullard noted the recent improvement in the labor market.
“I expect this will accelerate during 2011,” Bullard said at
the event, sponsored by the Kentucky Department of Financial
Institutions, “U.S. firms have cash and are looking for
opportunities to invest.”  Even with the improvement, about 6.3 million people have
been out of work and looking for a job for more than six months
and the employment-to-population ratio is lower than it was when
the recession ended as companies have been slow to hire.  Bullard told reporters after the event that “it’s true
that the most recent data has been a little bit weaker” on the
 U.S. economy .  ‘Fairly Good’  “I still think that the outlook for the economy is fairly
good,” he said, citing anecdotal reports from around his
district. “I don’t see the kind of household pullback on
consumption that we saw in 2008.”  The cost of living in the U.S. rose in March for a ninth
consecutive month, led by increases in food and fuel costs that
drove prices 0.5 percent higher for the second month in a row,
the Labor Department said last week. Prices have risen 2.7
percent in the last year. Excluding food and energy, prices have
risen 1.2 percent.  While many Fed officials prefer to use  core inflation , or
prices excluding food and energy, in their forecasts, Bullard
said that total inflation “is the ultimate objective of
monetary policy with respect to prices.” “Core inflation is
not an objective in itself,” he said in the presentation.  Explicit Target  Bullard said that having an explicit target for inflation
would help the central bank guide policy and expectations.  “Inflation targeting is another way to force more
accountability to the central bank and anchor longer-term
expectations,” he said.  Fed presidents rotate voting on monetary policy, and
Bullard, 50, does not vote this year. He joined the St. Louis
Fed’s research department in 1990 and became president of the
bank in 2008.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
Timothy R. Homan in Louisville,  Kentucky , at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  