-- 
Fiat, Telecom Italia, Roma, Pop. Milano May Move: Italian Equity Preview

-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 
2011-04-18T06:29:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/fiat-telecom-italia-roma-pop-milano-may-move-italian-equity-preview.html
The following companies may be
active in Italian trading. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
share prices are from the previous close.  Italy’s benchmark  FTSE MIB Index (FTSEMIB)  was little changed,
falling less than 0.1 percent to 21,821.26 in Milan.  AS Roma SpA (ASR)  : A group of U.S. investors agreed to
buy a controlling stake in the three-time Italian soccer
champion and will make a mandatory buyout offer for the rest of
the club. A newly created company, 60 percent controlled by a
group led by Boston Red Sox partner Thomas DiBenedetto and 40
percent by bank  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , is purchasing about 67 percent of
AS Roma. The new investors will proceed with a mandatory buyout
offer for AS Roma at 0.6781 euro per share. The stock rose 0.5
percent to 1.166 euros.  Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA (BMPS)  : Morgan
Stanley reiterated an “underperform” rating on the bank with a
price estimate of 1 euro unchanged “pending the execution of
the rights issue,” it said in a note. The shares lost 1.2
percent to 91.5 euro cents.  Banca Popolare di Milano Scarl (PMI)  : The country’s
oldest cooperative bank may sell shares to raise between 600
million euros ($866 million) and 800 million euros after the
Bank of Italy asked the lender to boost capital, daily newspaper
 Il Sole 24 Ore  reported. The central bank, headed by  Mario Draghi , sent a letter to Popolare Milano asking it to bolster
capital by considering a share sale, a person familiar with the
situation told Bloomberg News on April 14. The stock fell 2.4
percent, to 2.648 euros.  Enel SpA (ENEL)  : Nomura Holdings Inc. replaced Italy’s
biggest utility with EDP-Energias de Portugal SA in its top
utilities sell list. The shares added 0.9 percent to 4.64 euros.  Fiat SpA (F)  : Fiom Cgil, an autoworker union, plans to
file a complaint against Fiat in an Italian court tomorrow over
working conditions it says breach a national labor contract,
said Federico Bellono, the local head of the union in Turin.  BofA Merrill Lynch Global Research trimmed its price
estimate on Fiat to 6.5 euros from 7.3 euros. The shares gained
0.1 percent to 6.43 euros.  Telecom Italia SpA (TIT)  : Italy’s biggest phone company
said it will increase its fixed-line monthly fee by 2.6 percent
to 16.5 euros from July 1. The phone company also will apply new
rates, removing peak and off-peak tariffs, for local and long-
distance calls, charging 0.7 cent and 5 cents a minute,
respectively.  Separately, Luca Rossetto, the former chief executive
officer of department-store chain Upim SpA, was named head of
the company’s domestic consumer unit,  Il Sole 24 Ore  reported,
without saying where it got the information. The shares
increased 0.6 percent to 1.075 euros.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  