-- 
Finnish Vote Dents Euro Area’s Debt-Crisis Shield, Analysts Say

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-04-18T22:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/finnish-vote-dents-euro-area-s-debt-crisis-shield-analysts-say.html
The European Union may have to work
around Finnish opposition to the rescue of  Portugal  while facing
new hurdles to a reinforced bailout system, say analysts
including Guntram Wolff of the  Bruegel  research institute.  The EU’s ability to plug possible holes in the safety net
for the government in Lisbon would still leave a euro-skeptic
Finnish administration in a position to block the euro area’s
blueprint to counter debt crises.  The EU plans 80 billion euros ($114 billion) of aid for
Portugal as Finland prepares to form a government that may
include the True Finns party, which criticized the rescues of
Greece and Ireland and may enter government after finishing
third in the April 17 vote. That prospect added to mounting
concerns of a Greek default to trigger a drop in the euro and
debt of nations at  Europe ’s periphery.  The election “is a sign that the willingness of the
northern countries to increase the size of the bailout mechanism
has decreased,” Wolff, a research fellow at Bruegel in
Brussels, said in a telephone interview. “It adds to the
political uncertainty and makes it likely that bond spreads will
continue to be elevated.”  Portuguese and Greek government bonds slumped yesterday,
pushing two- and 10-year yields to euro-era records. The euro
lost 1.6 percent against the dollar, the most in almost four
months.  EU nations in the North face growing voter unhappiness
about taxpayer-funded aid for debt-laden euro-area countries,
undermining attempts to draw a line under the financial crisis.
Before Finns voted, German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party lost
regional elections as domestic resistance grew to bailouts of
distressed euro countries.  Backlash  The voter backlash in richer euro countries may undermine
the euro area’s plans to raise to the maximum 440 billion euros
the lending capacity of the  European Financial Stability
Facility , whose need for buffers to secure a AAA credit rating
now caps possible aid from the facility at around 250 billion
euros. That step needs domestic approval in euro-area nations
including Finland, which is one of the region’s six AAA rated
countries backing the EFSF.  The public resentment may also undermine a March EU
agreement to replace the EFSF with a permanent debt-crisis
mechanism starting in 2013. That too needs parliamentary support
in euro nations.  Finland ’s election result “will make it harder for the
region to provide support for the periphery,” David Mackie,
chief European economist at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said
in a research note. “This result will clearly add to the
uncertainty and volatility that the euro area is experiencing.”  Finnish Veto Possible  The next Finnish government could veto the EFSF share of a
rescue package for Portugal or future EFSF aid for the country.
Finland isn’t able under current practices to opt out as a
guarantor of the EFSF because that right is given only to euro-
area nations that receive aid from the facility, according to
EFSF spokesman Christof Roche. Finland accounts for around 2
percent of the EFSF’s 440 billion euros in guarantees.  Other European countries would combine to plug holes in the
planned bailout for Portugal in case the new Finnish government
won’t pay its share, an EU official said.  In an understanding last year, euro leaders vowed to
prevent one country from blocking aid, said the official, who
declined to be named because the accord isn’t in writing.  A precedent exists in the Greek package of national and IMF
loans approved last year before the creation of the EFSF. When
Slovakia backed out of providing its share of the 110 billion
euros in loans, the remaining euro-area governments made up the
difference. The Slovak government also threatened to withhold
its support for the EFSF before succumbing to euro-area demands
to respect a pledge to sign up.  True Finns  The True Finns, whose leader is Timo Soini, jumped almost
15 points to 19 percent in Finland’s vote. Offsetting that
result, Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen’s pro-Europe National
Coalition won 20.4 percent to become Finland’s biggest party for
the first time. The  Social Democrats , which also opposed the
bailouts for Greece and Ireland, won 19.1 percent.  Katainen has pledged to work only with parties that support
the euro area’s rescue tools, saying “Finland has always been a
responsible European Union country” and “I’m convinced the new
government, whoever is in it, will want to continue this
policy.”  The True Finns will seek a majority that allows them to
renegotiate Finnish participation in the euro region’s rescue
system, according to Soini, who said: “Our money shouldn’t be
thrown into mechanisms that don’t work.”  EU View  The European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm,
said the Finnish election results have no impact on its
preparation with the  European Central Bank  and  International
Monetary Fund  of an aid package for Portugal.  “It hasn’t changed anything for us,” said Pia Ahrenkilde- Hansen, spokeswoman for commission President  Jose Barroso . “We
are fully confident that Finland will continue to honor its
commitment.”  Mackie and Wolff said they doubt the next Finnish
government would veto an aid package for Portugal. The euro area
aims to reach an accord on a Portuguese rescue on May 16, three
days before a new Finnish government is tentatively scheduled to
be appointed.  “Our view is that a new Finnish government would not veto
EFSF support for Portugal, but it might argue for much tougher
conditionality,” said Mackie. Wolff also said Finland may
insist on extra aid conditions for Portugal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net ;
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  