-- 
Ford Said to Have Cut 20% of Metropolitan Lincoln Dealerships

-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 
2011-04-18T19:42:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/ford-said-to-have-cut-20-of-metropolitan-lincoln-outlets-over-six-months.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  has cut about 20
percent of its metropolitan Lincoln dealerships in the past six
months as it seeks to revive its luxury line and boost sales at
the remaining stores, said a person familiar with the situation.  The automaker now has about 400 Lincoln dealers in the
nation’s top 130 metropolitan markets, said the person, who
asked not to be identified revealing internal data. Ford told
Lincoln dealers in October that it planned to eliminate 175 of
its 500 metro Lincoln outlets.  “Our vision is to substantially reduce the number of
dealers to become competitive,”  Mark Fields , Ford’s president of
the Americas, said Oct. 5 after meeting with Lincoln dealers in
Dearborn, Michigan, where Ford is based. “We need to make sure
our dealers are competitive in their throughput so they can
provide the experience our customers expect.”  Ford executives are meeting today and tomorrow in Dearborn
with the 12-member Lincoln dealer council to review plans for
upgrading  customer service  and redesigning models to reverse
declining sales, the person said. Lincoln sales have fallen 11
percent this year, while the overall U.S. auto market has gained
20 percent, according to Autodata Corp.  Lincoln sales have plunged almost two-thirds from their
1990 peak and averaged 1.4 cars sold a week for each dealer in
the first quarter, according to Autodata, based in  Woodcliff
Lake ,  New Jersey . Lincoln, which was last the top-selling luxury
brand in the U.S. in 1999, sold 36 percent as many models as
 Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz in the U.S. in the first quarter.  ‘Transition Period’  “With Lincoln, we’re clearly in a transition period,”
Ford Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally told reporters April
13 after a speech in  Detroit . “Our commitment to the dealers
now is that we’re going to make a fantastic family of vehicles
that will be very competitive. We’re all going through some
transition as it takes time to get these vehicles to market.”  Ford has said it plans to introduce seven new or
significantly redesigned Lincoln models, including a small car,
by 2014. The automaker has overhauled Lincoln’s design theme to
outfit vehicles with prominent, split-bow grilles and is
dedicating design, engineering and marketing staff to the brand,
rather than having it share with Ford.  Ford had planned to unveil a new look for Lincoln in a
concept car at the New York auto show this week. The automaker
delayed that introduction indefinitely after hiring Cadillac
stylist Max Wolff in December as Lincoln’s new chief designer,
people familiar with the plans have said.  Rural Dealers  Ford hasn’t revealed a timeline for when it expects to
reach its goal of about 325 Metro Lincoln dealers. Ford also has
about 700 Lincoln dealers in rural areas, which aren’t targeted
for closing.  Ford had reduced its metro Lincoln dealer count to 434 by
February,  Ken Czubay , vice president of U.S. sales, said at the
time. The cuts are aimed at discouraging Lincoln dealers from
competing against each other on price so they can take on the
luxury brands of other automakers.  Since October, Ford has been meeting with Lincoln store
owners to lay out new expectations, including upgraded customer
service and renovated showrooms, at a cost of as much as $2
million per store, dealers have said.  Ford is offering to buy out Lincoln dealers or pair them
with Ford franchises, where sales have risen 25 percent this
year.  Beginning Aug. 31, Lincoln dealers have to meet new
standards for staffing, training and begin providing owners with
perks such as car washes. Ford is seeking to upgrade the buying
experience to emulate  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ,  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ’s Lexus and Mercedes-Benz. Lincoln dealers who fail to
meet the new standards may not receive as much financial support
from Ford, the person said.  Younger Buyers  Mulally is seeking younger buyers and a bigger slice of the
more-profitable premium-car market with models such as the MKZ
gasoline-electric hybrid sedan and touch-screen technology to
operate phone, stereo, navigation and climate controls.  Since arriving from Boeing Co. in 2006, Mulally has sold
Jaguar,  Land Rover ,  Aston Martin  and Volvo to focus solely on
Lincoln for the automaker’s luxury strategy.  “The whole plan was that we divest ourselves of the other
premium brands,” Mulally said. “We had all these other luxury
brands and we didn’t invest as much in Lincoln.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield,  Michigan , at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Orland at   korland@bloomberg.net  