-- 
Foreclosure Probe Talks Said to Yield Some Agreement Between States, Banks

-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 
2011-04-18T21:21:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/foreclosure-probe-talks-said-to-yield-some-agreement-between-states-banks.html
Attorneys general negotiating a
settlement of a 50-state investigation of foreclosure practices
have reached agreements with lenders on some terms while failing
so far to reach an accord on potential monetary payments by the
banks, said a person familiar with the talks.  The probe was triggered by claims of faulty foreclosure
practices following the housing collapse which law enforcement
officials said may violate state law. Significant progress has
been made on a deal with lenders, which include  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , with agreements in principle
reached on several issues, said the person, who didn’t specify
the areas of accord as they may change as talks proceed.  It may take at least two months to reach a final agreement,
said the person, who declined to be identified because the talks
are private. An accord remains out of reach because states want
principal reductions for borrowers, which is more than banks
agreed to in deals reached with U.S. regulators last week, said
 Allison Schoenthal , a lawyer at  Hogan Lovells  in New York.  “Principal reductions I don’t think are going to be agreed
to by banks, and I don’t think the banks see a need for a
penalty when, in their view, they haven’t done anything wrong,”
said Schoenthal, who represents lenders and servicers and isn’t
involved in the talks.  Set Requirements  Geoff Greenwood, a spokesman for Iowa Attorney General Tom Miller, who leads the negotiations for the states, declined to
comment.  Dan Frahm , a spokesman for  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America, declined to comment.  Thomas Kelly , a
spokesman for New York-based JPMorgan, didn’t respond to an
e-mail seeking comment.  The 50 states, along with federal agencies including the
 Justice Department , seek to set requirements for how banks
service loans and conduct home foreclosures.  Last month, the states submitted proposed settlement terms
to five mortgage servicers, and have been meeting with bank
officials to reach a final settlement. The proposal called in
part for monetary payments by banks to go toward a loan
modification program that includes loan principal reductions for
borrowers.  Several attorneys general, including  Florida ’s Pam Bondi,
criticized the proposal for principal reductions in letters
written to Miller last month. Jennifer Meale, a spokeswoman for
Bondi, said the office has had “constructive and meaningful
dialogue” with attorney generals leading the talks.  Addressing Misconduct  “The group has thoroughly discussed our concerns with the
term sheet and continues to work toward its goal of addressing
misconduct in the mortgage loan industry,” Meale said in an
e-mailed statement April 15.  In a speech to a group of  attorneys general  earlier this
month, Bank of America Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan
said “broad-based” principal reductions aren’t “a sound
policy decision for America.”  “Fairness is a major concern,” he said, according to the
prepared  text  of the speech. “It’s hard to see how we could
justify reducing principal for many delinquent customers who
represent a small portion of borrowers, but not for the vast
majority of our customers who have stayed current on their
loans.”  Principal Reductions  Any agreement on principal reductions will depend on the
size of the writedowns, the incentives for the servicers built
into the settlement and other details, which continue to be
sorted out, said the person close to the negotiations.  Miller said last month after a meeting between banks and
state and federal officials that the two sides had “a long way
to go” to reach an agreement.  The 14 mortgage servicing companies who reached deals with
U.S. banking regulators, including the Office of the Comptroller
of the Currency, agreed to conduct a review of loans that went
into foreclosure in 2009 and 2010, and improve their procedures
for modifying loans and seizing homes.  They also agreed to stop foreclosing on homes while
negotiating lower mortgage payments for borrowers.  In addition to Bank of America and JPMorgan, also taking
part in the regulator agreements were  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) ,
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , the GMAC unit of Ally Financial Inc., Aurora
Bank FSB, EverBank Financial Corp., HSBC Holdings Plc, OneWest,
MetLife Inc.,  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) , Sovereign Bank,
SunTrust Banks Inc., and US Bancorp.  Global Settlement  Bank of America, JPMorgan, San Francisco-based Wells Fargo,
New York-based Citigroup and Detroit-based Ally are the five
companies involved in the talks with the 50 states.  The federal regulators said their agreements with the
servicers are designed as a tool for state and federal law
enforcement agencies as they seek a global settlement. Iowa’s
Miller said the effort of states to reach a nationwide agreement
would continue “unabated.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in  New York  at   dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  