-- 
Former American Express Chief Alfred F.  Kelly to Lead New York Super Bowl

-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 
2011-04-18T17:19:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/former-american-express-chief-alfred-f-kelly-to-lead-new-york-super-bowl.html
Former  American Express Co. (AXP) 
President Alfred F. Kelly Jr. will be chief executive officer of
the committee organizing the New York-area Super Bowl in 2014.  Kelly, 52, will lead preparations for the National Football
League’s first open-air, cold-weather Super Bowl, scheduled for
2014 at the $1.6 billion stadium shared by the  New York Giants 
and Jets in East Rutherford,  New Jersey , the host committee said
in a statement.  “We believe we have secured one of the best minds in the
business world to guide us as we set out on this historic
endeavor,” Jets owner  Woody Johnson , co-chairman of the
committee along with Giants Treasurer Jonathan Tisch, said in
the statement.  Kelly rose to lead day-to-day operations for American
Express’s consumer business, including credit cards,  customer
service  and global banking, after starting at the company in
1987 in the strategic planning department, the statement said.  Kelly said he was attracted by the chance to help organize
a game that last year became the most-watched television
broadcast in U.S. history.  “This is the biggest game, on the biggest stage, in an
area that’s got a lot of other things going on,” Kelly said in
a telephone interview. “We want to make sure we take the
fullest advantage of it.”  Departure Reason  Kelly resigned as American Express’s president in October
2009 to seek a top job at another company because Chief
Executive Officer  Kenneth Chenault  intended to remain for the
“foreseeable future,”  Joanna Lambert , a company spokeswoman,
said at the time. American Express said in a 2009 federal filing
that Kelly was eligible for separation and bonus payments of at
least $13.7 million.  NFL owners voted in May 2010 to hold the  Super Bowl  in New
Meadowlands Stadium. Commissioner Roger Goodell said at the time
the benefits of staging the championship game of the U.S.’s
most-watched television sport in the nation’s financial and
media capital outweighed the risk of snow and freezing
temperatures.  Kelly, who was born in Bronxville and raised in the New
York area, said the region does “an incredible job” with snow
removal, helping people get to work after blizzards. Dallas
struggled to remove ice from a storm that stalled commuters and
tourists in the week before this year’s Super Bowl.  Kelly said the committee would work with local agencies to
prepare for snow or other inclement weather.  “Snow, ice and cold weather are not going to come as a
surprise to this region,” Kelly said. “One of the things we
will plan for is a huge snowstorm.”  Organizers said the game may be worth as much as $500
million to the local economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 