-- 
Gasoline Falls as S&P Revises U.S. Credit Outlook to Negative

-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 
2011-04-18T19:55:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/gasoline-falls-as-s-p-revises-u-s-credit-outlook-to-negative.html
Gasoline declined as equities
tumbled after  Standard & Poor’s  Ratings Services revised its
outlook on the U.S.’s long-term sovereign credit rating to
negative from stable.  Futures fell from a 33-month high as Standard & Poor’s said
there’s a “material risk” that U.S. policy makers won’t agree
on a plan to address long-term budget issues by 2013. Prices
rose 0.9 percent last week as East Coast refinery shutdowns
curtailed fuel production and a jump in  consumer confidence 
indicated fuel demand may increase.  “What’s really moved the market is the S&P downgraded our
outlook to negative,” said  Phil Flynn , vice president of
research at PFGBest in  Chicago . “This raises concern that the
U.S. is going to have to raise interest rates to attract equity,
which will slow demand for oil down the road.”  Gasoline for May delivery dropped 3.64 cents, or 1.1
percent, to settle at $3.2528 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange .  At the same time, the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index retreated
1.1 percent in New York.  Standard & Poor’s affirmed its AAA long-term and A-1+
short-term sovereign credit ratings on the U.S.  Gasoline fell before the S&P report, following crude oil,
after Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said the global “market
is oversupplied” and  China  increased bank reserve requirements.  “As China continues to increase bank reserves, that would
slow down lending and temper growth going forward, which in turn
affects petroleum demand,” said  Andy Lipow , president of Lipow
Oil Associates LLC in Houston.  China Reserves  Reserve ratios will rise a half-point from April 21, the
People’s Bank of China said in a one-sentence statement on its
website today. The move, taking the requirement to 20.5 percent
for the nation’s biggest lenders, came less than two weeks after
the central bank boosted benchmark  interest rates .  Brent crude for June settlement lost $1.84 to settle at
$121.61 a barrel on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. Nymex
May-delivery crude fell $2.54 to $107.12 a barrel.  Gasoline’s advance last week to the highest level since
July 2008 was boosted by concern that violence during Nigerian
elections, including the April 16 presidential contest, would
disrupt production of the light, low-sulfur crude that is used
by some East Coast refineries.  Nigerian presidential incumbent Goodluck Jonathan may be
formally declared the winner of Nigeria’s presidential election
after winning almost twice as many votes as his closest rival,
while opposition protests spread in six northern cities.  Nigerian Crude  Nigeria’s crude is low-sulfur, similar to the grade
produced in  Libya , where civil conflict lowered output by about
1.3 million barrels a day to a “trickle,” the Paris-based
International Energy Agency said in March.  “Concern about Nigeria, that’s what ratcheted us up on
Friday, and that’s eased,” said Ray Carbone, president of
Paramount Options Inc. in  New York . “Today’s decline is also
being exacerbated by the drop in the stock market and the
strength in the dollar and the possibility of higher interest
rates in the U.S.”  The dollar rose 1.4 percent against the euro as of 3 p.m.
in New York. A stronger dollar reduces the investment appeal of
commodities.  Regular gasoline at the pump increased 0.6 cent to $3.833 a
gallon yesterday, AAA said on its website. That’s the highest
price since Sept. 18, 2008.  Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta President  Dennis Lockhart 
said today that he expects a “soft” first quarter in the U.S.
because of the impact of rising gasoline prices on  consumer
spending .  Gasoline Supplies  U.S. gasoline supplies probably fell 1.75 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of eight analysts in
a survey by Bloomberg News. That would leave inventories at the
lowest level since Nov. 12.  Gasoline stockpiles sank 7 million barrels in the week
ended April 8, according to Energy Department data as refiners
cut rates 3 percentage points to 81.4 percent, imports slipped
17 percent and demand jumped to a five-week high.  Gasoline’s premium to heating oil increased by 0.5 cent to
7 cents a gallon, its strongest performance since July 23.  “Gasoline supply fundamentals remain more constructive
than distillates, with drawing inventories, low refinery
operating rates, and below-average imports,” said  Tom Knight ,
vice president of trading and supply at Truman Arnold Cos. in
Texarkana,  Texas . “And we have yet to see confirmation of any
sustained demand destruction in retail demand from high pump
prices.”  Heating oil for May delivery declined 4.14 cents, or 1.3
percent, to settle at $3.1828 a gallon on the exchange.  Stockpiles of distillates, including heating oil and
diesel, rose 400,000 barrels, according to the survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at   dstets@bloomberg.net  