-- 
GE Ties CEO Options to Performance as Investor Meeting Nears

-- B y   R a c h e l   L a y n e
-- 
2011-04-19T00:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/ge-ties-immelt-options-to-performance-as-investor-meeting-nears.html
General Electric Co. (GE)  said it
amended terms of the 2 million options awarded to Chief
Executive Officer  Jeffrey Immelt  in 2010, linking them to  cash
flow  and stock performance.  The change comes prior to next week’s annual shareholder
meeting, where investors will be asked to consider compensation
for executives and related proposals.  The options will now vest in four years rather than three-
and five-year periods, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. Immelt gets half if cash
from operating activities in the industrial divisions is no less
than $55 billion in the four years through December 2014, and
the remainder if GE’s stock outperforms the Standard & Poor’s
500 Index in the same period.  “We have had a number of constructive conversations with
our shareowners on  stock options  that were awarded to Mr. Immelt
in March 2010,” the Fairfield, Connecticut-based company said
in the filing. “Some shareowners have expressed the view that
additional performance conditions should be applied to Mr.
Immelt’s 2010 stock option award.”  The options, the first awarded to Immelt since 2003, were
intended to underscore the board’s confidence in his leadership
and boost the equity-based portion of his compensation, GE said.  Immelt’s Support  The changes were made with Immelt’s “full support” and
are consistent with conditions for other equity-based awards
including the performance-linked units typically awarded instead
of options, Anne Eisele, a spokeswoman, said by telephone. The
decision was made in the past few days, she said.  The board’s compensation committee will resume awarding
Immelt’s equity-based compensation in the form of performance-
based stock units rather than options this year, according to
the filing.  GE, which holds its annual investor meeting April 27 in
 Salt Lake City , didn’t name the shareholders with whom the
changes were discussed. Its  proxy statement  contains two
investor proposals related to  executive compensation .  On April 7, GE wrote to shareholders that the company
disagreed with an  International Shareholder Services Inc.
recommendation  to oppose proposed executive compensation in an
advisory vote, saying GE believed ISS’s recommendations were
based on an “incomplete and inaccurate analysis.”  ISS changed its recommendation in light of GE’s announced
changes today, said Patrick McGurn, executive vice president of
ISS.  “In light of this new information, indicating the
company’s long-term commitment to pay-for-performance, ISS
believes that support for the advisory vote on executive
compensation is now warranted,” the service said in an alert to
investors after today’s filing from GE.  GE has forecast cash from operating activities of $12
billion to $13 billion this year, according to a  presentation  on
the company’s website. GE has gained 9.2 percent this year in
New York trading, compared with a 3.8 increase in the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rachel Layne in Boston at 
 rlayne@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  