-- 
Gerdau Falls to 21-Month Low as S&P Shifts U.S. Outlook

-- B y   L e o n   L a z a r o f f
-- 
2011-04-18T20:49:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/gerdau-falls-as-s-p-ratings-cut-may-signal-weakening-u-s-growth.html
Gerdau SA, Latin America’s largest
steelmaker, fell to a 21-month low after  Standard & Poor’s  put a
“negative” outlook on the AAA credit rating for the U.S.,
where the Brazilian company produces and sells steel.  Gerdau declined 3.3 percent to 18.56 reais in  Sao Paulo ,
its lowest closing price since July 14, 2009, at 4 p.m. New York
time. The company generated 28 percent of net sales in 2010 from
 North America , according to a regulatory filing. It didn’t
report how much was from the U.S.  The stocks of companies with significant links to the U.S.
are being affected by the S&P outlook, said Urban Larson, who
helps manage about $3.2 billion in emerging-market assets at F&C
Management Ltd. in London.  “The market is taking this as a negative for U.S. and
global growth,” Larson said.  Mexican cement and building materials maker Cemex SAB,
which fell 3.2 percent to 9.94 pesos, was also affected by the
S&P announcement, Larson said. In 2010, Cemex’s U.S. operations
generated about 18 percent of total sales, second to Mexico.  China ’s move to cool inflation by increasing its banks’
reserve requirements added to the drag on Brazilian commodity
exporters. China is Brazil’s biggest trading partner.  Vale SA (VALE3) ,
the world’s second-largest mining company, declined 1 percent to
45.20 reais. MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the iron-ore producer
controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , fell 5.6
percent to 10.46 reais.  “China is showing that they will continue tightening until
the market tells them there’s a problem with that,” said
 Michael Shaoul , chairman of Marketfield Asset Management, which
oversees $1 billion in New York.  Investors Exit  Gerdau shares also are falling as investors exit Brazil
after rising commodity prices attracted them in the first
quarter, Shaoul said.  “Things had been pushed too far by some hot capital
inflows at the end of the first quarter, and once those inflows
are finished, the market naturally goes back down,” he said.  The negative outlook by S&P means it assigns a one-in-three
chance it will cut a borrower’s rating within a two-year
horizon, David Beers, S&P’s global head of sovereign and
international public finance ratings, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  Gerdau’s North American net sales grew 7 percent to 8.84
billion reais in 2010, according to a company filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Lazaroff in  New York  at 
 llazaroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  