-- 
German Bank Won’t Lend to CO2 Project, CDM Watch Says

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 
2011-04-18T17:24:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/german-bank-won-t-lend-to-honduran-co2-project-cdm-watch-says.html
(Corrects reference to land acquisitions and killings in
fifth paragraph.)  DEG Deutsche Investitions- und
Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH, a German  development bank , won’t
pay out on a loan to the owner of an emissions-cutting project
in Honduras, said CDM Watch, the Bonn-based environmental lobby.  The bank last week “declared that it will not pay out an
already approved loan to Grupo Dinant, the value of which Dinant
owner Miguel Facusse reportedly put at $20 million,” CDM Watch
said today in an e-mailed statement. Cordula Rinsche, a
spokeswoman for DEG in Cologne,  Germany , didn’t immediately
respond to a voice mail message and e-mail seeking comment.  Last week, the Aguan biogas project in Central America said
it was evaluating Electricite de France SA’s termination of a
contract to buy carbon credits. EDF terminated its involvement
after CDM Watch alleged the facility’s owner committed human
rights abuses. The project is owned by Exportadora del
Atlantico, a unit of Grupo Dinant.  “Our lawyers are currently in the process of evaluating”
a letter from EDF terminating the contract, Roger Pineda,
corporate treasurer at Tegucigalpa, Honduras-based Dinant, said
in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg News.  CDM Watch  said in a February report that Grupo Dinant may
not hold legal claims to the land and may be linked to killings
of members of the Unified Peasant Movement and the Peasant
Movement of the Lower Aguan Valley. Twenty-three peasants were
killed in the Bajo Aguan region from January last year to
February 2011, CDM Watch said today, citing a report by
international human rights groups led by FIAN, the  FoodFirst
Information and Action Network , a Heidelberg, Germany-based
group that identifies abuse.  ‘Allegations Deplorable’  The  United Nations  Clean Development Mechanism’s Executive
Board was due to discuss whether the project is eligible to earn
carbon credits, with a potential decision at a meeting that ends
June 3, CDM Watch said in today’s  statement .  The board has “so far failed to respond to human rights
abuses linked to a carbon offsetting project in  Honduras  that is
currently pending registration,” the lobby said.  “The allegations are deplorable,” said David Abbass, a
CDM spokesman in Bonn. “If human life has been taken, or human
rights violated in any other way, it is a flagrant violation of
the most fundamental principles of the United Nations,” he said
today in an e-mailed response to questions.  Public Comment  The board may discuss the project at the meeting ending
June 3 or the one following, Abbass said. At the next meeting
the board would examine whether “procedures for public comment
are sufficient,” he said. This would include a look at the role
and responsibility of developing nation governments that host
and approve projects, the role of audit firms that verify
projects, as well as provisions allowing members of the public
to comment on projects, he said.  Factories and power stations in  Europe ’s carbon cap-and-
trade program can use some UN credits to comply with greenhouse-
gas-pollution limits. This allows companies to invest in
emissions-cutting projects abroad, which may be cheaper.  The company is investigating killings of 10 security guards
and a 13-year-old boy in relation to “trespassing” on the
site, Pineda said last week. Land ownership rights and deaths
related to land rights are currently being documented “to prove
that those deaths are not related to our company,” he said.  The board, the body that approves  individual CDM projects ,
has stated that it has no mandate to investigate human rights
abuses and that any matters related to the sustainable
development of the project are determined by the government that
hosts the project, in this case the de-facto government of
Honduras, CDM Watch said.  ‘Not Surprising’  “This places a crucial decision into the hands of a
government that has obvious interests for the project to go
ahead,” Eva Filzmoser, program director of CDM Watch, said in
the statement. “It is therefore not surprising that so far no
project has ever been rejected for non-compliance with the
sustainable development criteria.”  EDF Trading’s move was “a highly encouraging decision that
prioritizes the protection of human rights over” economic
benefits, Filzmoser said.  Chris Huhne , the U.K.’s energy and climate change
secretary, sent letters seeking further information on the
allegations to the board, the Honduran authorities and EDF
Trading, according to a government official, who declined last
week to be named in line with department policy. The U.K.,
representing buyers of credits, has approved the project.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net 
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  