-- 
Get Rich, Pay Lower Taxes, Boost Federal Revenue: Amity Shlaes

-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 
2011-04-18T23:00:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/get-rich-pay-lower-taxes-boost-u-s-revenue-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
To clean out and start over right.  That’s the great impulse that Americans act on each spring.
We tell ourselves there’s nothing wrong with this process
repeating annually. In religion, the cycle is always there: sin,
repent, purge. These days the impulse gets its most vivid
individual expression in the realm of personal health: “sin,
repent, spinning class.” Or “sin, repent, detox drink.” The
worse the year, the greater the repentance required.  Spring also brings a collective impulse to reform. That
usually gets expressed in a resolve to make the  tax code  more
progressive. Some of the demand for more progressivity is
revenue-related. The government needs the money, or thinks it
does.  But some of progressive reform is just the annual
expression of that spring impulse to make life clean, fair and
right. To “maintain or increase the progressivity of the tax
code” is, for example, one of the recommendations being quoted
right now from the report by President Barack Obama’s bipartisan
National Commission on Fiscal Responsibility and Reform.  Ritual isn’t always logical, however. It can be
destructive, precisely because it repeats. Too much sin-and-
repentance, and even we don’t believe ourselves any more. Too
many detoxes, and you’re poisoning yourself.  Nowhere is this clearer than in the case of tax
progressivity.  Graduated Rates  The first modern expression of the progressive impulse came
in the springs of the early part of the last century, when the
Treasury Department fashioned the Form 1040. The tax formula was
progressive, with a graduated rate structure going from 1
percent to 7 percent. Since only a few people paid federal
income tax, that rate structure was a model of progressivity.  But of course it wasn’t. Making the code progressive felt
good to lawmakers, just the way the detox does. World War I and
its costs strengthened the general mood of sacrifice. So they
made the code even more progressive, taking the top rate up all
the way into the 70s.  The results taught lawmakers a quick lesson. Raise the
rates too high, and you get a perverse result: less money from
the rich than you expect. Lower the rates, and the rich pay a
greater share of the taxes. Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon
found that when he cut rates down to 25 percent, he got the most
revenue of all.  But logic couldn’t always suppress instinct. Each year,
lawmakers felt that need to demonstrate they were increasing
progressivity even more than they felt the need to get an
optimal result. Each year that need had to find expression.
Within a generation the top rate was back in the 70s, reaching
91 percent in the 1950s. This proved inefficient. Taxpayers
found ways around the statutory rates. Again, the reform didn’t
work.  Progressive Outcomes  In more recent springs, both Democrats and Republicans have
developed a compromise repentance to accommodate some reality.
The lawmakers discovered, as Mellon had, that by talking about
helping the poor, but keeping the actual top rates lower, they
got an outcome that was splendidly progressive.  In 1980, the top  1 percent  of earners paid 19 percent of
income taxes, and the bottom half of earners paid 7.1 percent. A
decade later, with a lower maximum rate, the top 1 percent paid
25 percent of taxes, while the bottom earners paid just 5.8
percent. By 2008, top earners paid 38 percent of taxes, the
bottom half 2.7 percent.  What about today? It might make sense to cut taxes even
more, down to, say, a top rate of 20 percent. Then the rich
would pay all the taxes. And there would be more revenue, as
foreigners came in.  Burden of Rich  But here tax sanctimony gets in the way of  tax reform . In a
progressive rate structure, the rich almost always get bigger
tax cuts, because their rates are higher to begin with. So their
cuts sound unfair. The more progressive a tax structure, the
more unfair its dismantlement appears.  The reality is that this year in tax terms, the U.S. isn’t
a sinner. The country is already clean. The very rich shoulder
far more of the collective burden than their share in the
population warrants.  Yet in his recent debt speech, Obama clearly wanted to make
the point that the rich don’t pay their share of the collective
costs of government, whatever the data showed. So he retreated
to another datum: the share of individual income that a taxpayer
gives up in taxes.  “At a time when the tax burden on the wealthy is at its
lowest level in half a century,” the president said, “the most
fortunate among us can afford to pay a little more.”  World of Problems  That ratio is indeed lower than at some other points. You
can find a way to make America look like a sinner even if it
isn’t sinning. Tax increases may be appropriate as a last, worst
resort. But we are not at the last, worst moment this spring.  Why then did Obama ignore the record of lower rates
bringing more revenue? Because there’s a lot wrong in the world,
starting with the federal debt, and continuing on to
joblessness, war in  Libya , and  Japan ’s nuclear crisis. So the
general urge to purge is greater, and it’s being channeled into
tax sanctimony. But that doesn’t mean this particular ritual is
worth honoring.  ( Amity Shlaes , a senior fellow in economic history at the
 Council on Foreign Relations  and author of “The Forgotten Man:
A New History of the Great Depression,” is a Bloomberg News
columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at 
 jgreiff@bloomberg.net  