-- 
U.K. Gilts Advance as Greek Debt, U.S. Rating Outlook Spurs Safety Demand

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-18T16:08:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/gilts-advance-amid-greek-restructure-finnish-election-concerns.html
Gilts rose as investors sought the
security of U.K. government bonds amid speculation that  Greece 
will be unable to avoid a default and as  Standard & Poor’s 
revised its outlook on the U.S. credit rating to negative.  The pound gained versus the 17-member common currency for a
fourth-straight day, even as Greece denied it had sought
discussions on restructuring its debt. Finland’s euro-skeptic
bloc, whose leader says taxpayers shouldn’t have helped rescue
Greece or Ireland, is poised to enter a government with the pro-
 Europe  National Coalition after yesterday’s election.  “Uncertainty on the peripheral sovereigns is lingering,
and with the Finnish vote over the weekend, that adds to the
concern,” said  Elisabeth Afseth , an analyst at Evolution
Securities Ltd. in London. “That’s what pushed bunds and gilts
higher.”  U.K. 10-year yields fell five basis points to 3.55 percent
as of 4:30 p.m. in  London  after touching 3.54 percent, the
lowest since March 24. The two-year yield fell six basis points
to 1.14 percent.  Europe’s benchmark German 10-year bund yield dropped 14
basis points to 3.24 percent, while similar maturity  U.S.
Treasury  yields were one basis point lower at 3.40 percent after
S&P put a “negative” outlook on the U.S.’s AAA credit rating,
citing rising budget deficits and debt.  “The U.S. fiscal situation has been something of the
silent 600-pound gorilla in the room,” wrote  Charles Diebel ,
head of market strategy at Lloyds TSB Bank Plc, in an e-mailed
note. “The initial reaction has been to favor European and U.K.
debt versus the U.S.”  Economy Outlook  Gilts have earned investors 0.9 percent this month,
compared with a 0.6 percent return on U.S. Treasuries and losses
of 0.1 percent on German bonds, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies.  The U.K. currency slid against the dollar as Ernst & Young
LLP’s Item Club cut its economic growth forecast for this year,
indicating it sees no pressure for the Bank of England to raise
 interest rates . Gross domestic product may expand 1.8 percent
instead of the 2.3 percent projected in January, the London-
based Item Club said.  “The question remains about where U.K. rates are going,”
said Afseth. “Any sort of weakness will question whether there
will be a rate move in May or not.”  The pound fell as much as 1 percent against the dollar
before trading 0.6 percent weaker at $1.6227. Against the euro,
sterling gained 0.9 percent to 87.60 pence, its longest winning
streak since Feb. 7.  Short Sterling  Short-sterling futures rose as traders pared bets the U.K.
central bank will boost borrowing costs. The implied yield on
the contract expiring in December slipped by six basis points to
1.21 percent. The minutes of the  Bank of England ’s April meeting
will be published in two days.  Britain will tomorrow auction 900 million pounds of
inflation-linked bonds maturing in 2050. The Debt Management
Office also plans to sell 4.5 billion pounds of 27-, 90- and
181-day bills later this week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 