-- 
Glapinski Says Polish Central Bank ‘Can’t Give In to Pressure’

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   D a v i d   M c Q u a i d
-- 
2011-04-18T07:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/glapinski-says-polish-central-bank-can-t-give-in-to-pressure-.html
Adam Glapinski , a member of the
Polish central bank’s rate-setting Monetary Policy Council,
comments on inflation and the outlook for interest rates.  Glapinski made his remarks yesterday in a phone interview
in Warsaw.  On monetary policy:  “We should be consistent in sticking to the scenario we
accepted at the beginning of the year, which assumed taking
steps to cool down the economy as needed, with each step
preceded by very careful observation, because it’s very easy to
overreact. The current situation is characterized by halting
growth and high inflation, the latter driven by factors that we
are powerless to influence. What we have to keep in mind is that
high interest rates could slow the economy without curbing
inflation, which is something we can’t allow to happen.  ‘‘My position is that the Monetary Policy Council can’t
take decisions based on monthly data and must remember its
actions will affect the economy over a time horizon of about two
years. This means the March inflation reading can’t dictate a
change of monetary policy parameters. I’ll seek to convince
other policy makers not to submit a rate-increase motion in May
and if there is one, I’ll vote against it.  ‘‘A rate increase in May would be a serious mistake for
several reasons. First of all, we shouldn’t base our decision-
making on monthly data. The March inflation data only confirmed
predictions that prices would grow in the first half of the
year, so nothing has happened to justify a change in our
monetary-policy scenario.  ‘‘If we raise rates in May, we’ll simply be joining the
panic about March inflation, and the Monetary Policy Council
can’t allow itself to be swayed by panic, especially by a
senseless one. We’d just be providing additional arguments to
intensify the panic. Finally, a rate increase in May would only
fuel inflationary expectations, which are already quite high.”  On the central bank’s “action scenario”:  “This is the first time I’ve spoken so openly, but the
Monetary Policy Council can’t give in to pressure from the
market; nothing has happened to make us change the action
scenario we adopted for this year. That scenario called for from
two and four rate increases, each by a quarter point, through
the end of the year, and I see no reason why we should change
that.  ‘‘The Monetary Policy Council should maintain a stable
parity in relation to the  European Central Bank ’s official
 interest rates ; we anticipated the ECB with the first rate
increase, but there’s no reason to move preemptively again.”  On inflation:  “The March inflation rate exceeded most forecasts, but you
have to remember that inflation accelerating in the first half
of the year shouldn’t come as a surprise to anybody. The trend
was foreseen in the central bank inflation projections and was
reinforced by price speculation on global food and energy
markets. These factors are external and beyond our control.  ‘‘What’s more, the trend is expected to reverse in the
second half of the year. Not only will price growth slow, but
food prices may actually fall. The local contributor to higher
prices, which was the value-added tax increase at the beginning
of the year, will fade out in the second half of the year and
provide another argument for slower inflation.  ‘‘While the high inflation rate boosts inflationary
expectations, this is a purely psychological effect because the
economy isn’t generating any price pressure. There hasn’t been a
recovery in private investment and business confidence remains
low.  ‘‘On the labor market, we have unemployment of more than 13
percent and very weak labor unions, which gives little reason
for concern about wage demands. I don’t see any second-round
effects or even the possibility that they could appear.  ‘‘As for inflation, I see it below the upper end of our
target range by the end of this year.’’  On the economy:  ‘‘Poland’s economy, powered by  Germany ’s recovery, remains
in a phase of fragile and halting growth and is vulnerable to
many risks, including the high degree of uncertainty on global
markets. We will be very fortunate to end the year with economic
growth of 4 percent, but I have serious doubts we can achieve
that.’’ 