-- 
Glencore Gives Investors Perfect Chance to Pass: Matthew Lynn

-- B y   M a t t h e w   L y n n
-- 
2011-04-18T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/glencore-gives-investors-great-chance-to-pass-commentary-by-matthew-lynn.html
It is the blockbuster share sale of
the year. When it lists in  London  next month, the Swiss
commodities company Glencore International AG may well be valued
at more than $60 billion. It will be too big to ignore.  But like any initial public offering, it raises a crucial
question: If the owners of the business are selling, is this the
right time to be buying?  The answer is no. Glencore is essentially a trading
company. It has a lot more in common with an investment bank, a
hedge-fund manager or a private-equity firm than it does with a
mining conglomerate. And the one thing traders are supposed to
be good at is timing the market, so they are more likely to know
the right moment to sell shares to unsuspecting buyers.  Glencore will be a fantastic business one day. Don’t
believe any of the warnings about the commodities boom being
over. It still has a long way to run. But the time to buy the
shares will be after all the hype has subsided -- not when it is
at its peak.  After three decades as a closely held partnership,
Glencore, which changed its name from Marc Rich & Co. when
management bought out fugitive U.S. financier Marc Rich in 1994,
is about to enter the public spotlight. It has a compelling
investment case to make: Glencore owns big stakes in resources
companies, employs 2,700 people in its trading units around the
world, and about 54,800 people at its industrial subsidiaries.  $24 Billion  It is the largest shareholder in  Xstrata Plc (XTA)  -- that
holding alone is worth $24 billion. That is an attractive
collection of assets, and one that should excite investors.  And yet it is going to be a hard business to value. Nothing
else like Glencore really exists, so there are no easy
comparisons to make. And, of course, the commodities rally may
have a few speed bumps along the way.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
last week recommended investors reduce such holdings, predicting
that prices for oil, gold and copper will fall over the next
three to six months.  There is probably some truth in that. Oil and gold have had
a good run in the last few months. If there is any sign that
growth will slow in  China , or any of the other major emerging
markets, commodity prices will be hit hard.  Bull Market   Even so, this isn’t a three-to-six-month trade. Over time,
the bull market in raw materials will continue. As  living
standards  in the emerging economies approach those of the
developed world, people will consume a lot more. Factories will
need more stuff coming in to ship things out the other side.
Even if supply rises to keep up with demand -- and that won’t
always be possible -- this will still be a much larger industry
in five years than it is today. So it is a good place to invest.  The main concern about Glencore isn’t the state of the
commodities business. It is about timing.  The record shows that when trading businesses come to the
market, investors usually get outfoxed. Take Goldman Sachs, for
example. No one disputes that it is a great bank. But if you
bought shares in its IPO in May 1999 and sold in November 2008
you would have lost money, though there would have been better
selling opportunities along the way.  How about  Fortress Investment Group LLC (FIG) ? The manager of
hedge and buyout funds sold shares at $18.50 in February 2007.
They are now valued at less than $6.  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the
world’s largest private-equity firm, priced its IPO at $31 in
2007. The shares now trade at less than $19.  Mixed Bag  The underlying message is always the same: Trading firms
are great for the senior dealmaker, but they are a mixed bag for
outside investors.  There is no great mystery about that.  First, the people on the inside inevitably know more about
what the immediate prospects are than anyone on the outside.
Senior managers may well have lock-ins that stop them from
selling shares for a set period, as Glencore’s do.  “Is it the top of the cycle?” Chief Executive Officer
Ivan Glasenberg said in an interview with Bloomberg reporter
 Jesse Riseborough  last week. “Who knows, who cares? We are only
potentially selling out in five years’ time, so let’s worry
about the market in five years’ time.”  It doesn’t make any difference. They will still choose a
point that looks like a peak in the market to sell. They can’t
help themselves: cashing in at the top is in their blood.  Second, there is always the risk of key staff drifting
away. For the best traders, a partnership is a more satisfying
place to work than a publicly traded company. There is more
freedom and greater rewards: things that traders want most. Who
wants to be tied up with a lot of boring rules for less money?
If the star traders start to move elsewhere, though, the
business immediately loses value.  Glencore will be a big company for a long time to come. But
pick up the shares cheaply in a few months’ time. That, after
all, is what its traders would do.  (Matthew Lynn is a Bloomberg News columnist and the author
of “Bust,” a book on the Greek debt crisis. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Matthew Lynn in London at 
 matthewlynn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  