-- 
General Motors to Raise Prices $123 Per Vehicle for Higher Commodity Costs

-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 
2011-04-18T20:24:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/gm-raises-prices-123-per-vehicle-amid-higher-commodity-costs.html
General Motors Co. (GM) , the largest
U.S. automaker, will raise prices by an average of $123, or 0.4
percent, per vehicle because of higher commodity costs.  The price increases will be on most models in the U.S. and
will be effective May 2, Tom Henderson, a spokesman for Detroit-
based GM, said today in a telephone interview. The move isn’t
related to the Japan earthquake, he said.  GM is following  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  in
boosting prices. Ford said April 4 it would raise prices by
$117, or 0.4 percent. Toyota’s increase on most models averaged
1.7 percent, the automaker said March 31.  Industry price increases are common as automakers enter
seasonally stronger months for sales in the spring and summer,
said  Maryann Keller , principal of a self-titled consulting firm.
They will be supported this year by parts shortages resulting
from the March 11 Japan earthquake and tsunami, she said.  “Auto companies even before the tsunami have not been able
to meet their production targets,” Keller, whose firm is based
in Stamford, Connecticut, said in a telephone interview.
“They’ll get away with a price increase because there just
isn’t a huge supply of vehicles out there to result in a great
amount of discounting.”  GM will notify dealers of the increases today, Henderson
said. The automaker ended March with U.S. inventory of 574,000
vehicles, about 57,000 more than at the end of February,
according to an April 1 statement.  Lost Output  GM, Toyota and Ford, based in Dearborn,  Michigan , each have
lost some North American output, citing supply disruptions since
the earthquake in Japan. Production disruptions may lead to a
tighter supply of vehicles and higher prices, Itay Michaeli, an
analyst for Citigroup Global Markets in  New York , wrote today in
a research note.  Low industry inventory and Japan-related supply-chain
issues should keep pricing in check for at least three to six
months, he wrote.  GM declined 27 cents to $29.97 at 4:15 p.m. in New York
Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares earlier fell to
$29.90, the lowest since GM sold shares at $33 each in an
initial public offering in November.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Craig Trudell  in New York at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net . 