-- 
Goldman Sachs’s Biddle to Focus on New Mining-Investing Unit

-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 
2011-04-18T15:41:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/goldman-sachs-s-biddle-to-focus-on-new-mining-investing-unit.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  named
Leslie A. Biddle, the firm’s global head of commodities sales,
to a new merchant-investing unit that will focus on the  mining
industry .  As chief financial officer of the new business, Biddle
“will focus on the evaluation, structuring and financing of new
opportunities” and work closely with the Global Commodities
Principal Investing business, according to a memo today from the
co-heads of the securities unit, Edward K. Eisler, David B. Heller, Pablo J. Salame, and Harvey M. Schwartz. Biddle will
continue to report to Isabelle Ealet, Goldman Sachs’s global
head of commodities.  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets,
continues to pursue opportunities to invest the firm’s own money
in companies and other assets even as the Dodd-Frank Act passed
last year prohibits banks from risking capital by betting for
their own accounts.  The Dodd-Frank provision known as the Volcker rule limits
banks that get federal support, such as  deposit insurance , from
proprietary trading or investing in private equity or hedge
funds. The rule, which is still being interpreted by regulators,
doesn’t explicitly prevent banks from using their own money to
make long-term investments that are similar to those made by
private-equity firms.  Investing and lending, the segment that includes positions
held with Goldman Sachs’s own money, accounted for 19 percent of
revenue in 2010, the firm reported.  Joined in 2002  Biddle joined the New York-based company in 2002 as vice
president in U.S. power sales and was promoted to managing
director in 2004 and to partner in 2006, the memo said. She is a
member of the firm-wide new activity committee, structured-
investment products, European audit and compliance committee and
the finance committee, according to the memo.  As global head of commodities sales, Biddle “has driven
some of our most important private-equity relationships and has
played a large role in expanding our commodities growth markets
footprint,” the memo said.  Biddle will be replaced as global head of commodities by L. Peter O’Hagan, who was a partner in the commodities unit before
becoming chief executive officer of Goldman Sachs Bank USA, the
deposit-taking unit, in 2008, according to a separate memo
today.  The content of both memos was confirmed by  Stephen Cohen , a
spokesman for Goldman Sachs in  New York , who declined to comment
further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 