-- 
Obama, Republicans Close on Debt-Cut Amount, Goolsbee Says

-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 
2011-04-18T17:29:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/goolsbee-says-negative-outlook-for-u-s-doesn-t-deserve-too-much-weight-.html
President  Barack Obama ’s chief
economic adviser rejected the negative outlook  Standard & Poor’s 
placed on the U.S. AAA credit rating as a “political judgment”
that he said doesn’t deserve “too much weight.”  “They are saying their political judgment is that over the
next two years they didn’t see a political agreement” to reduce
long-term deficits,  Austan Goolsbee , chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers, told Bloomberg Television’s InBusiness with
Margaret Brennan. “I don’t think that the S&P’s political
judgment is right.”  Goolsbee said Obama and Republican congressional leaders
are “pretty close” in the deficit reduction targets they have
announced. Each has set a target of $4 trillion, though House
Republicans have a timeline of 10 years and the White House
proposal would cumulatively cut that amount over 12 years.  “They agree that we got to take some significant actions”
that “promote fiscal responsibility,” Goolsbee said.  In an earlier interview on MSNBC, he said: “I believe we
can get to some long-term deficit reduction that would address
these issues that S&P’s discussing.”  Tax Dispute  Despite similar deficit reduction targets, Obama and  House
Republicans  disagree on how to reach the goal. While Obama has
proposed $1 trillion in tax increases, House Republicans reject
any new taxes. Republican also would overhaul the Medicare
health insurance program for the elderly to transform it into a
subsidy to purchase private insurance, a change Obama rejects.  S&P today reaffirmed the U.S. government’s AAA rating and
revised its long-term outlook to “negative,” citing rising
budget deficits and debt.  “We believe there is a material risk that U.S. policy
makers might not reach an agreement on how to address medium-and
long-term budgetary challenges by 2013,” New York-based S&P
said in a statement. “If an agreement is not reached and
meaningful implementation does not begin by then, this would in
our view render the U.S. fiscal profile meaningfully weaker than
that of peer ‘AAA’ sovereigns.”  Goolsbee said the assessment “wasn’t a political
probability that even the other  ratings agencies  necessarily
agree with.”  Moody’s Rating  Moody’s Investors Service reaffirmed the top rating for
U.S. sovereign debt, with a stable outlook.  The  S&P 500  declined 1.5 percent to 1,299.47 at 11:51 a.m.
in  New York , its biggest drop since March 16. The yield on the
10-year Treasury note was little changed at 3.41 percent,
erasing an earlier gain. The euro lost 1.5 percent to $1.4210
against the dollar.  Mary Miller , assistant U.S. Treasury secretary for
financial markets, said in a statement the S&P’s outlook
“underestimates” U.S. leadership.  “We believe S&P’s negative outlook underestimates the
ability of America’s leaders to come together to address the
difficult fiscal challenges facing the nation,” Miller said in
the statement.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said in a statement that the S&P announcement is a “wakeup
call” to “stop our nation from digging itself further into
debt.”  “House Republicans will only move forward on the
president’s request to increase the debt limit if it is
accompanied by serious reforms that immediately reduce federal
spending,” Cantor said.  ‘Outperform S&P’s Expectations’  White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said Obama is
confident that prospects for agreement on debt reduction are
better than S&P expects.  “The political process will outperform S&P’s
expectations,” Carney told reporters at a briefing today. “The
fact is that when the issues are important, history shows that
both sides can come together and get things done.”  Four U.S. companies have AAA ratings from S&P, like the
federal government’s. They are:  Automatic Data Processing Inc. (ADP) ,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ,  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  and  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. If the U.S. is cut to
AA+, the government would have the same rating as  General
Electric Co. (GE) , W.W. Grainger Inc., and Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  Under the White House’s fiscal year 2012 budget, released
in February, the total debt subject to the ceiling would be
$20.8 trillion in 2016. The plan House Republicans approved
April 15, written by Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan of
Wisconsin, would need a debt ceiling of at least $19.5 trillion,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  Debt Ceiling  The Treasury Department projected that the government may
reach the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling limit as soon as mid-May
and run out of options for avoiding default by early July.  Last week, Moody’s Investors Service said Obama’s plan to
cut $4 trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years may be a
“positive” for the nation’s credit quality and mark a reversal
in the budget debate.  The U.S. is the only large AAA rated country that saw its
debt rise during the crisis that until recently had no plan that
would reverse the trend,  Steven Hess , senior credit officer at
Moody’s, said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington D.C. at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 