-- 
Banking Crisis of ’30s Gives EU Bad-Loan Tuition: Peter Coy

-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 
2011-04-21T05:45:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/greek-default-drive-risks-reviving-euro-region-contagion-as-bonds-plunge.html
In May 1931, a Viennese bank named
Credit-Anstalt failed. Founded by the famous Rothschild  banking
family  in 1855, Credit-Anstalt was one of the most important
financial institutions of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and its
failure came as a shock because it was considered impregnable.  The bank not only made loans, it acquired ownership stakes
in companies throughout the empire such as sugar producers and
new automobile makers. Its headquarters city, Vienna, was a
place of wealth and splendor, famous for its opera, balls,
chocolate, psychoanalysis, and the architecture of the
Ringstrasse. The fall of Credit-Anstalt, the dominoes it helped
topple across Continental Europe and the confidence it shredded
as far away as the U.S. wasn’t just the failure of a bank, it
was a failure of civilization.  Once again, Europe’s banking system, and by extension its
social fabric, is threatened by bad loans. What had been slow-
moving fiscal disasters in  Greece , Ireland, and Portugal have
gathered speed in recent weeks despite rescue packages designed
to calm markets and prevent spreading the contagion to  Spain ,
Belgium, and beyond.  Portugal’s 10-year borrowing costs hit a record 9.3 percent
on Apr. 20, up from 7.4 percent just a month before, even as
authorities met in Lisbon on an 80 billion euro ($116 billion)
financing package. The higher that creditors drive up  interest
rates , the more unaffordable the debt becomes -- creating the
conditions for the very failure they fear.  ‘Adverse Feedback Loop’  “All of the rescue packages don’t really ensure that we
can escape this adverse feedback loop that these countries are
being trapped in,”  Christoph Rieger , head of fixed-income
strategy at Frankfurt-based Commerzbank, told Bloomberg
Television on April 19.  With weak banking systems still resisting aggressive
treatment, it’s worth revisiting Credit-Anstalt for any
applicable lessons. Long before 1931, Credit-Anstalt had begun
to develop cracks invisible to the public. When the Austro-
Hungarian Empire broke up after World War I, the bank continued
to do business throughout the old empire without recognizing
that the world had changed. Suddenly, more knowledgeable local
lenders were getting the best deals, leaving Credit-Anstalt with
the loans no one else would touch, says Aurel Schubert, an
Austrian economist who wrote a  1991 book  on the episode called
The Credit-Anstalt Crisis of 1931.  Austria Stumbles  The hyperinflation of 1921-23 that made the price of a beer
rise to 4 billion marks badly damaged the finances of Credit-
Anstalt as well as  Austria  itself. The nation was propped up by
a 1923 loan from the League of Nations, the predecessor of the
U.N. A Dutch citizen was appointed by the League to supervise
the Austrian budget. He devised plans to raise taxes while
cutting government jobs, pay, and pensions, the same
prescription being urged on the weak members of the euro zone
today. But Austria continued to stumble.  Bank regulation, meanwhile, was thin. Regulators began to
demand a balance sheet just once a year, instead of every six
months, says Schubert. As weaker banks failed, Credit-Anstalt
took them over at regulators’ insistence, becoming more bloated
and less profitable with every merger. And the weakening of the
economy was damaging lenders’ ability to repay.  The tipping point came early in 1931 when a bank director
named Zoltan Hajdu refused to sign off on Credit-Anstalt’s books
without a comprehensive reevaluation of the bank’s assets. The
bank revealed losses that it kept revising upward as the weeks
passed. Depositors withdrew funds. The  Austrian government 
stepped in to guarantee all the bank’s deposits and other
liabilities, which only brought the government’s own
creditworthiness into question. “In today’s language,” says
Schubert, “Credit-Anstalt was too big to fail, but too big to
save.”  ‘Viennese Panic’  Harold James, a British historian at  Princeton University ,
described what happened next in his  2001 book  The End of
Globalization: Lessons from the Great Depression. “The Viennese
panic brought down banks in Amsterdam and Warsaw. In June and
July the scare spread to  Germany , and from there immediately to
Latvia,  Turkey , and  Egypt  (and within a few months to  England 
and the U.S.).” Austria got an undersized loan from the Bank
for International Settlements and some help from the British
branch of the Rothschild family. But French politicians rejected
an international rescue without political concessions from
Germany that weren’t forthcoming.  Global Depression  Thus the failure of Credit-Anstalt accelerated the
financial panic that turned a recession into a global
depression. Economic distress in Austria contributed to the
outbreak of conflict between socialists and fascists in 1934.
Jews became scapegoats. In 1938, Nazi Germany occupied Austria,
and Adolf Hitler was received by adoring crowds in Vienna.
Albeit indirectly, the failure of Credit-Anstalt helped clear
the path for some of the darkest events of the 20th century.  Today’s  Europe  is far from a series of events resembling
this tragic cascade. But the experience of the 1930s and 1940s
has made European policymakers and economists more aware of
historical precedents.  The current debate is about how to avoid a repeat. To those
who believe hyperinflation was the key policy mistake in Credit-
Anstalt’s fall, keeping a lid on inflation is priority No. 1.
Others stress the lack of international coordination, or the
failure to regulate, or even the handcuffs on government
policies from adherence to the gold standard represented today
by the euro zone’s reliance on a common currency. As in most car
crashes, the witnesses have a hard time agreeing on just what
they saw.  Peripheral Country  The scariest thing about the Credit-Anstalt default is that
it occurred in a small, peripheral country, just as today’s
worst problems are concentrated so far in Greece, Ireland, and
 Portugal , which combined make up just 5 percent of the 27-nation
European Union’s gross domestic product. “Austria is a tiny,
tiny little place, and you wouldn’t imagine it could set off a
chain of domino reactions. But it did. I do see exactly that
potential now,” says James.  For that reason, German economist  Holger Schmieding  says
Europe should do everything in its power to prevent or at least
delay defaults by national governments. Schmieding, chief
economist of the German private bank Joh. Berenberg Gossler &
Co., says keeping Greece and others from defaulting for as long
as possible will give banks in Germany,  France , and other
nations that have lent to them the time they need to rebuild
their capital so they can withstand the hit from loan losses.  Exposure Level  The Bank for International Settlements says that as of last
September, German banks had over 220 billion euros worth of
exposure to Greece, Ireland, and Portugal, and French banks had
over 150 billion euros worth. For all of Europe’s bickering over
aid to Greece, Ireland, and Portugal, the Continent is more
united and financially stable now than in the interwar period.  “Unlike Austria in 1931, the  euro zone  has the resources
to bail out the threatened banks without really triggering a
full-blown debt crisis,” says Michael D. Bordo, an economic
historian at  Rutgers University  in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey .
The more Europe takes the lessons of Credit-Anstalt to heart,
the less likely it is to make the same mistakes again.  The introduction of Schubert’s book begins with the famous
line of George Santayana, the Spanish philosopher, who said,
“Those who cannot remember the past are condemned to repeat
it.” J. Bradford DeLong, an economist at the  University of
California  at Berkeley, thinks Europe has absorbed Santayana’s
message to an extent. “Because we remember the Credit-Anstalt,
we will not make that mistake,” DeLong says. “We will make
different ones.”  ( Peter Coy ’s column will appear in Bloomberg Businessweek’s
April 25 issue. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Coy in New York at 
 pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  