-- 
Greece to Sell Bills With Two-Year Note Yields Exceeding 20%: Euro Credit

-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   N a t a l i e   W e e k s
-- 
2011-04-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/greece-to-sell-bills-with-two-year-bond-yields-exceeding-20-euro-credit.html
Greece  plans to sell 1.25 billion
euros ($1.78 billion) of 13-week Treasury bills today as growing
speculation the country will need to restructure its debt pushed
bond yields to euro-era records.  Greece’s two-year bond yield exceeded 20 percent yesterday,
as official denials that the nation was preparing a
restructuring failed to convince investors. The yield on 10-year
debt has jumped more than 300 basis points since Feb. 15 when
Greece last sold 13-week bills at a yield 3.85 percent.  “Price actions in the market suggest people believe
there’s no smoke without fire,” said  Richard McGuire , a senior
fixed-income strategist at Rabobank International in London.
“Greece will keep rolling over the bills even though the costs
of doing so may be rising.”  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s comments on
April 14 that Greece may need to restructure its debt sent bonds
tumbling across peripheral  Europe . The slide reversed the gains
of the previous week triggered by optimism that contagion from
the region’s debt crisis had been contained with  Portugal ’s
bailout request.  Schaeuble said that his comments were misinterpreted,
though German officials continued to speak of restructuring as
recently as yesterday. “The big question is: will Greece make it
through summer without buckling and having to find some means of
restructuring its debt,” said  Otto Fricke , the parliamentary
budget spokesman for  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Free Democratic
Party coalition partner. “The signs aren’t good.”  Exit Map  Greek government spokesman George Petalotis yesterday
“categorically” denied reports in newspapers, including
Eleftherotypia, that Greece has asked the  International Monetary
Fund  and the European Union, which have provided the country
with a 110 billion-euro package of loans, to extend the
maturities of all the country’s debt.  Additional budget measures and state-asset sales announced
April 15, amounting to 76 billion euros, are “the map for the
country’s exit from the crisis,” Petalotis said.  His comments echoed those of Finance Minister  George
Papaconstantinou  who said at an IMF meeting in  Washington  on
April 16 and April 17 that restructuring is “simply not on the
cards.” Greece also found support from IMF Managing Director
Dominique Strauss-Kahn and French Finance Minister  Christine
Lagarde , who denied such steps were in the works.  Default Insurance  Investors remained skeptical, and the additional yield
investors demand to hold Greek 10-year debt instead of
equivalent German securities yesterday surpassed 1,100 basis
points for the first time since before the euro’s debut in 1999.
The cost of insuring Greek sovereign debt jumped 101 basis
points to a record 1,256, according to CMA prices for credit-
default swaps. That indicates there’s a 65.8 percent probability
of default within five years.  Mounting concerns about restructuring lifted borrowing
costs for  Spain  at an auction yesterday. The Treasury sold 3.5
billion euros of 12-month bills at an average yield of 2.77
percent, compared with 2.128 percent at the previous auction on
March 15.  “Given the current environment and the negative news flow
from the periphery, some volatility into the auction and a
weaker-than-usual result aren’t a big surprise,”  Chiara Cremonesi , a fixed-income strategist at UniCredit, wrote from
 London  yesterday.  Greece has only sold 26-week and 13-week bills since
getting the EU-led bailout in May 2010. The last 52-week note
was sold on April 13, 2010, 10 days before Prime Minister  George
Papandreou  requested the aid and began talks with the EU and
IMF. That issue was sold at 4.85 percent. Greece last week
raised 2 billion euros selling 26-week bills that were priced to
yield 4.8 percent.  Refinancing Needs  Greece’s refinancing needs this year of 58 billion euros
are covered by the EU-IMF loan package. The big challenge comes
next year. Under the aid plan, Greece is due to regain  market
access  and refinance at least three-quarters of its maturing
medium- and long-term debt, and then fully fund debt rollovers
from the summer of 2013.  Greek 10-year yields have risen almost 200 basis points
this year and have gained about 400 basis points since
Papandreou requested the bailout to bring down borrowing costs.
The jump in yields has come even after EU leaders and the IMF
agreed to extend the maturities and reduce  interest rates  on
their loans.  Under changes made last month to the region-wide rescue
fund, Greece may, “as an exception,” sell bonds directly to
the region’s bailout fund, the European Financial Stability
Facility, in 2012 if the nation is unable to tap markets next
year. That possibility also exists for sales to the fund after
2012 so long as Greece remains in an aid program.  Benefit of Doubt  An outright debt restructuring that would reduce the net
present value of debt is “a medium-term event, not a near-term
event,” Deutsche Bank economists led by  Thomas Mayer  wrote in
an April 15 note to clients.  “As long as the Greek government and people remain
constructive about delivering the fiscal consolidation,
privatization and structural reforms, the EU and IMF have an
interest in giving them a benefit of the doubt,” Mayer wrote.
“The most likely outcome is Greece’s return to the market in
2012 is back-stopped by the EFSF, in exchange for additional
austerity.”  The IMF said in its March report that Greece’s debt was
sustainable under the program although large risks remained,
including from an increase in so-called contingent banking
liabilities. That analysis said a banking shock would push debt
to more than 200 percent of gross domestic product. Greek banks
remain frozen out of markets and challenges are mounting as the
recession deepens, the EU and IMF said.  A debt restructuring “would have disastrous consequences
for the access of the government and of Greek enterprises to
international financial markets, as well as a very negative
effect on the assets of pension funds, banks and individuals,”
Bank of Greece Governor George Provopoulos, who’s also a council
member of the  European Central Bank , said in a speech yesterday
in  Athens .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  