-- 
Gulf-Spill Fund Pays $3.8 Billion; Total May Be ‘Higher’

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-04-18T21:56:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/gulf-coast-claims-facility-reports-approving-3-8-bln-in-payouts.html
Claims by victims of the  BP Plc (BP/)  oil
spill will be “quite a bit higher” than the $3.8 billion paid
so far, said  Kenneth Feinberg , administrator of the $20 billion
Gulf Coast Claims Facility.  “The money is going out,” Feinberg said today on a
conference call with reporters before the April 20 anniversary
of the disaster. He declined to estimate the final total. The
administrators of the fund released a report today rejecting
criticism that payments aren’t fair.  BP has said the payments are “too generous” and many
damage claims are inflated, the administrators said. Claims
“very often bear no reasonable relationship to the damages
actually proven,” according to the report. “In one case a
claimant submitted a claim demanding all $20 billion, while in
another case a claimant demanded $10 billion.”  BP agreed to set up the fund after a blowout at its Macondo
well killed 11 employees and sank a  Transocean Ltd. (RIG)  drilling
rig. Crude spewed from the failed well for 87 days, fouling
beaches, marshes and commercial fishing waters.  “Emergency advance payments” for about 169,000 people and
businesses account for $2.6 billion of the compensation approved
so far, according to  the fund . These payments last as many as
six months and don’t require claimants to give up their right to
sue.  The fund issued $998.7 million in “quick payments” to
110,163 claimants, according to the report. These payments,
$5,000 for individuals and $25,000 for businesses, don’t require
additional proof of losses and bar recipients from filing new
claims.  Final Offers  In the past eight weeks, offers of final payments for
$222.2 million have been accepted, according to the  fund . The
16,281 claimants give up further claims for damages from the
spill, according to the fund. Offers made to 16,600 claimants
for final payments are pending, according to the  report .  During the past eight weeks, “interim payments” totaling
$78.7 million have been made to 6,902 claimants, according to
the fund. People and businesses that accept interim payments can
ask the fund for more money if they can prove additional damage
and don’t give up the right to sue.  While the fund is “working as intended,” its record isn’t
perfect and administrators are working on improvements, Feinberg
said. The fund’s biggest challenges are processing claims
quickly, explaining how payments are calculated and making sure
compensation is consistent for people who suffered similar
losses, he said.  The issues have been “problems for the beginning” and are
all “related to the volume of the claims,” Feinberg said.
“You try and minimize it, but I acknowledge the problem.”  About 8,000 of the 857,000 claims submitted so far “border
on fraud,” Feinberg said. The fund has sent about 1,000
“fraudulent claims” to the U.S. Justice Department for
investigation, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net ;
Greg Chang at 
 gchang1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  