-- 
Gulf Gasoline Strengthens Amid Refinery Outages, Maintenance

-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 
2011-04-18T17:18:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/gulf-gasoline-strengthens-amid-refinery-outages-maintenance.html
Gasoline in the  Gulf Coast 
strengthened as ConocoPhillips scheduled maintenance starting
today at its Borger refinery in  Texas .  The 154,000-barrel-a-day plant expects to flare gases
through April 25 because of work on electrostatic precipitators
associated with a catalytic cracker, according to a state
regulatory filing. Placid Refining Co.’s Port Allen, Louisiana,
refinery shut a crude unit and several other downstream process
units yesterday after a fire.  The discount for conventional, 87-octane gasoline in the
Gulf Coast narrowed 0.4 cent to 12.5 cents versus futures traded
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 12:27 p.m. in New York,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Prompt delivery slipped
4.64 cents to $3.1138 a gallon.  Motiva Enterprises LLC released sulfur dioxide from its
Convent refinery in  Louisiana  after an upset in a sulfur unit,
according to a filing with the National Response Center.  The fire at the Placid plant began about 8:30 a.m. local
time yesterday, Rafael Bermudez, an outside spokesman for the
refinery, said in a telephone interview. The company anticipates
“minimal impact on fuel supplies to its customers,” he said.  The discount for the same fuel in New York Harbor narrowed
0.5 cent to 9.13 cents a gallon.  Regular gasoline in the Midwest, or Group 3, gained 0.5
cent to 9.25 cents below futures.  Inventories of conventional 87-octane gasoline on
Enterprise Products Partners LP’s TEP products pipeline system
have fallen below the minimum level for “open stock” status,
the company said in a bulletin to shippers April 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in  New York  at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 