-- 
UN Announces Aid Deal With Qaddafi for Embattled Libyan Port City Misrata

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-18T17:32:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/libyan-rebels-repel-attack-by-qaddafi-loyalists-as-migrants-flee-misrata.html
The  United Nations  reached an
agreement with Muammar Qaddafi’s regime that would permit aid
workers and supplies into the embattled Libyan port city of
Misrata, as almost 1,000 stranded migrant workers, mostly
Ghanaians, were evacuated by ship.  UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon said today that the Libyan
government agreed that it would also allow greater access of aid
workers and supplies to Qaddafi’s capital, Tripoli, and areas of
western Libya under government control. Ban, speaking in
Budapest, said the UN already has a humanitarian presence in
Benghazi, the rebel capital.  Britain announced plans to fund evacuation of 5,000
migrants, and to send medical teams and supplies to Libya.  “Thousands of foreign workers have managed to reach the
port but find themselves at terrible risk from incoming fire,”
Britain’s International Development Secretary  Andrew Mitchell 
said in a statement in  New York , where he is meeting UN
officials on how to coordinate aid efforts. “These evacuations
will take them to safety and help reduce the demand in Misrata
for the very limited supplies of food, water and medical
supplies.”  In the east, Qaddafi loyalists earlier shelled Ajdabiya,
about 160 kilometers (100 miles) south of the rebel stronghold
of Benghazi, Mustafa Gheriani, spokesman for the rebels’  Interim
Transitional National Council , said in an interview.  Rebels Struggle  Rebels have struggled for weeks to take and hold cities in
central Libya, which have been the focus of most of the fighting
since the uprising began in February, calling for deliveries of
heavy weaponry and for the coalition led by the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization to increase attacks. NATO air strikes have
so far failed to stop Qaddafi forces from endangering civilians.  At least 4,000 foreign nationals remain in Misrata, the
main rebel-held city in the west and  Libya ’s third-largest,
including more than 3,000 Nigerians, the  International
Organization for Migration  said. One hundred Libyans were among
those evacuated today.  Attacks by Qaddafi forces killed 17 people yesterday, Al
Jazeera television reported. About 300,000 civilians are trapped
in the city.  ‘Eerie Silence’  “We wanted to be able to take more people out but it was
not possible,” Jeremy Haslam, the leader of the migration
organization’s rescue mission, said in a statement on the
 group’s website . “Although the exchange of fire subsided while
we were boarding with an eerie silence at one point, we had a
very limited time to get the migrants and Libyans on board the
ship.”  Three Libyan military officers, including a colonel and a
captain, defected from the Qaddafi regime and arrived with 17
civilians in  Tunisia  by boat yesterday, Tunisia’s state-run TAP
news agency reported, citing an unnamed security source. Five
Libyan officers and 13 civilians fled to Tunisia by boat on
April 15, the report said.  The UN agreement, valid for six months, also provides for
the Qaddafi government to facilitate delivery of supplies and
equipment, coordinate on delivery of the aid, and ensure the
security of UN workers. Stephanie Bunker, spokeswoman for the UN
Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Aid, said plans to
implement the agreement are being formulated.  Libyan authorities haven’t guaranteed a halt in hostilities
in Misrata, according to the Associate Press, citing the UN’s
humanitarian chief, Valerie Amos, in Tripoli.  One attack in Misrata, possibly from a ground-to-ground
rocket, killed at least eight civilians waiting in line for
bread, while another injured four at a medical clinic,  New York- 
based  Human Rights Watch  said in an e-mailed statement today.  Grad Rockets  “Libyan government forces have repeatedly fired mortars
and Grad rockets into residential neighborhoods in Misrata,
causing civilian casualties,” said Peter Bouckaert, emergencies
director at Human Rights Watch. “The Soviet-made Grad in
particular is one of the world’s most inaccurate rocket systems
and should never be fired in areas with civilians.”  Oil declined for the first time in four days in New York
after  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest exporter, said the
global market has adequate crude supplies. Crude oil for May
delivery slid $2.72, or 2.5 percent, to $106.94 a barrel at
12:51 p.m. on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have
risen 30 percent in the past year.  The fighting has nearly halted oil exports from Libya,
which holds  Africa ’s largest oil reserves.  Oil Sales Halted  The Libyan rebels’ oil chief was quoted by the AP as saying
the opposition forces won’t sell any more oil until production
resumes, possibly in a few weeks. Wahid Bughaigis was cited as
saying that rebels are still assessing the damage to  oil fields 
they control after attacks by Qaddafi loyalists.  Rebels are advancing on the oil city of Brega and six
rebels were killed and 20 injured in fighting around the city,
the London-based Al-Hayat newspaper said.  “The rebels don’t have the logistics or organization to
move forward with major objectives at this time,” said Andrew
Terrill, a Middle East specialist at the Strategic Studies
Institute of the  U.S. Army War College  in Carlisle,
 Pennsylvania . “Unless we see large scale surrender from Qaddafi
loyalists, I don’t see too many cities changing hands.”  Allied aircraft enforcing the UN-mandated no-fly zone and
sanctions on Libya flew 60 missions to identify and engage
possible ground targets yesterday. The coalition destroyed seven
ammunition bunkers in Tripoli and four air-defense radars in
Misrata, NATO said today in an e-mailed statement.  Force Out Qaddafi  Even without the allies putting troops on the ground,
Qaddafi can be forced out, French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said, in an interview with the  Parisien  newspaper.  “Coalition aircraft can destroy Qaddafi’s supply chain as
they move east in the open, but in urban combat I have to
concede that while air power can avoid a tragedy, it can’t solve
the problem.”  He said Qaddafi’s forces number no more than 10,000 men.  In other news from the region, Yemen’s opposition coalition
rejected a Gulf Cooperation Council plan to end unrest in the
country, telling the group’s foreign ministers that the swift
departure of President Ali Abdullah Saleh isn’t negotiable.  Before the talks began in  Riyadh  yesterday, police in Yemen
used live ammunition, teargas and water cannons to disperse tens
of thousands of protesters marching in the capital, Sana’a,
injuring at least 100, according to Abdulmalik al-Yusufi, a
doctor at a field clinic along the protest route.  Protesters Hurt  Thirty protesters were hurt when they were attacked by
government supporters in the city of Thamad, according to the
online opposition publication al-Masdar.  In the Syrian city of Homs, the nearby town of Talbiseh and
the port city of Latakia, at least 12 people were killed and
scores wounded in clashes, activists said. One of the country’s
two oil refineries is located in Homs.  “The accounts of what happened yesterday were horrific,”
Ammar Qurabi, head of  Syria ’s National Organization for Human
Rights said by phone from Cairo. “The number could be much
higher. We will know the actual figure after today’s prayers”
for the dead are held in mosques.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net . 