-- 
Microsoft Needs to Accelerate Product Development, Co-Founder Allen Says

-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 
2011-04-18T15:44:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/microsoft-needs-to-accelerate-product-development-co-founder-allen-says.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s
largest software maker, “needs to accelerate the pace of
product development” to compete with  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , co-founder  Paul Allen  said in an interview.  Microsoft’s Windows 7 phone software and XBox Kinect
sensors, which help people play video games using physical
motion instead of controllers, are “resonating with a younger
audience” as the company tries to “get more momentum” in new
technology markets, said Allen, 58, who spoke at an event at the
 92nd Street Y  in New York last night.  Allen, whose memoir, “Idea Man,” will be released this
week, co-founded Microsoft with Bill Gates in 1975. He left the
company in 1983 after being diagnosed with Hodgkin’s lymphoma
and resigned from the board in 2000. He is the 17th-wealthiest
American with a net worth of about $13 billion, according to
Forbes magazine, and currently owns the  National Basketball
Association ’s Portland Trail Blazers and the National Football
League’s Seattle Seahawks.  Microsoft has struggled to compete with mobile devices from
Apple, which has supplanted Microsoft as the largest technology
company by market value. Chief Executive Officer  Steve Jobs ’s
transformation of Apple since his return in 1997 has been
“unbelievable,” Allen said. Microsoft, Google and Apple may be
in a “three-horse race” to innovate and win consumer approval
on new platforms including smartphones and tablet computers, he
said.  “What he’s done with the iPod, the iPhone and the iPad --
what a triple play there,” Allen said.  Health Disclosures  Like Jobs, Allen is again dealing with health issues. After
surviving Hodgkin’s lymphoma, Allen was diagnosed with non-
Hodgkin’s lymphoma in 2009. He said it was “important for
companies to disclose some level of detail” about their
executives’ health conditions for transparency.  Allen declined to comment on the NBA and NFL labor
situations, and he wouldn’t say if he would vote for the
Sacramento Kings to move to Anaheim, California. One of the
NBA’s “biggest challenges” was to come up with a financially
feasible revenue sharing plan so that midsize market
organizations can field competitive teams, he said.  “No one likes teams moving around, but we all face the
financial consequences, too,” Allen said. “No owner enjoys
losing money.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at   pelstrom@bloomberg.net  