-- 
Infineon Profitability, Sales Beat Forecast; Shares Rise

-- B y   R a g n h i l d   K j e t l a n d
-- 
2011-04-18T16:17:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/infineon-second-quarter-profitability-revenue-beat-forecast-shares-rise.html
Infineon Technologies AG (IFX) ,  Europe ’s
second-largest chipmaker, said second-quarter sales and
profitability beat the company’s own forecast on surging demand
for automotive and industrial semiconductors.  The operating margin reached 20 percent on sales of 994
million euros ($1.4 billion) in the three months through March,
Neubiberg, Germany-based Infineon said in a statement today,
citing preliminary figures. In February, it forecast a margin of
18 percent to 20 percent and sales to be “slightly” higher
than the 922 million euros in the first quarter.  “Revenue and margins seem to be remarkably good,
especially considering the uncertainty after the earthquake in
 Japan ,” said Jan Goehmann, an analyst at Norddeutsche
Landesbank Girozentrale with a “hold” recommendation on the
shares. “The automotive business is going really well because
of rising demand in emerging markets, and the tighter business
focus since last year is certainly a good thing.”  Infineon, whose chips go into cars, mobile phones and other
devices, is benefitting like rivals including  Intel Corp. (INTC)  from
higher demand following the economic slowdown, which hurt sales
and profit in fiscal 2009. The average estimate by 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for second-quarter sales of 954
million euros. The company predicts third-quarter sales and
profitability to be on the same level of the second quarter.  Infineon shares rose as much as 4.2 percent from its
intraday level and closed at 7.11 euros, up 1.6 percent, at 5:30
p.m. in Frankfurt trading.  Rising Demand  Worldwide semiconductor revenue rose by more than $70
billion in 2010 to $299.4 billion, up 31 percent from 2009,
Gartner Inc. said today. In December it predicted worldwide
spending on semiconductors to rise 4.6 percent in 2011.
Infineon’s products are used by companies from  Audi AG (NSU)  to
 China ’s Chery Automobile Co. that are looking to safely replace
more expensive mechanical parts.  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN)  is releasing its results for the
quarter through March after the U.S. market closes today.
Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg expect sales of $3.4 billion, up
from $3.21 billion a year earlier. Intel reports its first
quarter results tomorrow and is expected to post sales of $11.6
billion, according to Bloomberg data, up from $10.3 billion a
year earlier.  ‘Firing on All Cylinders’  Infineon is “firing on all cylinders” as “the volume of
orders is excellent, providing plenty of fuel for the coming
quarters,” Chief Executive Officer  Peter Bauer  told
shareholders in February.  “The outlook remains favorable from our perspective,”
said Dirk Schlamp, an analyst at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “We
do not rule out an upgrade revision of full-year targets during
the year.” Schlamp has a “buy” recommendation with a 9.2
euros target price on Infineon.  Infineon in February raised its full-year forecast and said
it predicts sales to rise by a mid-teens percentage, up from a
target of “close to 10 percent.” In 2010, the German chip
company raised its full-year forecast four times.  Infineon, whose outlook in 2009 was ‘bleak” according to a
statement by Bauer in February, has completed a restructuring
that included disposing of unprofitable units.  The chipmaker agreed in August to sell its wireless
business, which makes chips for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, to Intel
Corp. for $1.4 billion. Infineon said Jan. 31 that the
transaction had been completed.  Restructuring  Infineon’s remaining units make semiconductors for cars,
 wind turbines , household appliances, lighting systems and
 identity cards . Infineon, which trails  STMicroelectronics NV (STM) ,
Europe’s biggest chipmaker, will report final second-quarter
results on May 3.  Before the Intel deal, Infineon disposed of its
unprofitable Qimonda memory-chip unit to reduce its dependence
on markets with volatile demand and prices. Infineon was itself
sold by Siemens AG, Europe’s largest engineering company, in an
initial public offering in March 2000. Munich-based Siemens sold
its remaining Infineon shares in March 2006.  Bauer has said that the company has 2.7 billion euros in
funds following the sale of the wireless unit and this will be
spent on organic growth, on returning money to shareholders and
to “keep money in the kitty for acquisitions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ragnhild Kjetland in Frankfurt at 
 rkjetland@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at   kwong11@bloomberg.net  