-- 
Investment Funds Claim Banks Conspired to Manipulate London Interbank Rate

-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d
-- 
2011-04-18T23:13:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/investment-funds-allege-banks-conspired-to-manipulate-libor.html
Three European asset management
firms accused banks including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Barclays Bank Plc, Citibank NA
and  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  of conspiring to manipulate the
London interbank offered rate.  The banks sold Libor-based futures, options, swaps and
derivative instruments “at artificial prices that defendants
caused,” harming investors, FTC Capital GmbH of Vienna, FTC
Futures Fund SICAV of Luxembourg and FTC Futures Fund PCC Ltd.
of Gibraltar said in an April 15 complaint in  New York  federal
court.  From 2006 to 2009, the banks “collectively agreed to
artificially suppress the Libor rate,” and in early 2008,
“during the most significant financial crisis since the Great
Depression,” the rate remained steady when it “should have
increased significantly,” the funds contend.  A person close to an investigation on possible Libor
manipulation said last month that regulators in the U.S. and
U.K. were cooperating in the probe.  The U.S.  Justice Department , Securities and Exchange
Commission and Commodity Futures Trading Commission are
investigating with the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority,
according to two people familiar with developments.  FTC Capital bought and sold derivatives based on Libor, and
the two other funds are part of FTC capital, according to court
papers.  Libor’s Use  Libor is the rate of interest at which banks borrow funds
from other banks in the London interbank market. It is used
internationally as a short-term benchmark.  “We believe the suit is without merit,” said Danielle Romero-Apsilos, a spokeswoman for Citigroup.  Lawrence Grayson, a spokesman for Bank of America, declined
to comment.  Allegations in the civil complaint include fraudulent
concealment, violation of the U.S. Commodity Exchange Act,
antitrust violations and unjust enrichment.  The funds seek unspecified damages in behalf of a class of
derivative investors in a jury trial. The suit covers investors
“who transacted Libor-based contracts on the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange and over-the-counter market” from 2006 to June 2009,
according to court papers.  Deutsche Bank spokesman  Ronald Weichert  declined to
comment. Eberhard Roll and Walter Hillebrand-Droste, spokesmen
for defendant WestLB AG in Dusseldorf, weren’t immediately
reachable for a comment.  Officials at  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and HSBC Holdings Plc
weren’t immediately available. A spokeswoman at  Barclays Plc (BARC)  in
London declined to comment.  Jennifer Zuccarelli , a JPMorgan spokeswoman, declined to
comment. A spokeswoman for Credit Suisse in London declined to
comment.  The case is FTC Capital v. Credit Suisse, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   pmilford@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 