-- 
Iraq to Name Winners for $2.2 Billion of Power Plants Next Month

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-18T14:31:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/iraqi-jordanian-companies-bid-for-400-million-iraq-power-plant.html
Iraq , struggling to end severe
electricity shortages, will award contracts worth $2.2 billion
early next month to build four natural gas-fired power plants,
Electricity Minister Raad Shallal said.  “There is a big possibility that each project be granted
to a different company, which will be better for us and for the
company,” he said today at a press conference in  Baghdad .  The four power plants in Amarah, Samawa, Diwaniyah and
Basra in the south will add a total generation capacity of 2,750
megawatts, he said. Iraq currently produces 7,000 megawatts and
imports an additional 1,000 megawatts, while demand is about
14,000 megawatts, Shallal said last month.  Iraq, which faces power shortages eight years after the
U.S.-led invasion ousted President  Saddam Hussein , has offered
this year a series of tenders to build about 60 new power
plants. Its electricity plants and distribution system have
suffered through years of conflict, sanctions and sabotage.  Iraq’s  Almco Group  and Al Bilal Group Construction Co. as
well as a Jordanian company bid for the $400 million, 500-
megawatt plant in Amarah, Masaab Serri, an Electricity Ministry
spokesman, said earlier today. A joint Iraqi-Malaysian group
pulled out of the race, he said. The 25-year contract stipulates
that the power station be built over a period of 18 to 24
months, he said.  Dubai-based Uruk Engineering, Almco, Al Bilal, as well as a
Jordanian company bid for the plant in Diwaniya, he said,
without identifying the Jordanian bidder. Uruk and Al Bilal bid
for the plant in Samawa of similar capacity. The plants will
each generate 500 megawatts and cost $400 million apiece.  Al Basra  MASS Group Holding Ltd. of Jordan and Kar Group of Iraq
were selected as runners-up for a $1 billion contract to build
the 1,250-megawatt Shatt al-Basra plant, Shallal said April 5.  In addition to the four plants,  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s
biggest power-grid supplier, and five other companies were
selected yesterday to bid to develop a 250-megawatt power plant
in Al Qaim in western Iraq, Deputy Electricity Minister Salam
Qazaz said.  A group of South Korean companies signed contracts on April
7 to build 25 power stations, half of 50 that are planned at a
total value of $6.25 billion.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Man SE (MAN)  are
among companies that have bid for the remaining 25 plants,
Electricity Minister Raad Shallal said March 23.  Iraqis get power from the national grid for an average of
about one hour in every five. Former Electricity Minister Karim Wahid resigned last June after two people were killed in riots
over blackouts and power rationing. Prime Minister Nuri al- Maliki pledged to address the problem after forming his new
government in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Voss  at  sev@bloomberg.net  