-- 
Italy Shelving Nuclear Means Fiat to Keep Paying Most for Power in Europe

-- B y   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 
2011-04-18T23:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/italy-shelving-nuclear-means-no-end-to-eu-s-highest-power-price.html
Italy ’s decision to shelve an 18
billion euro ($26 billion) reactor-building program after
Japan’s nuclear crisis means companies from  Fiat SpA (F)  to  Parmalat
SpA (PLT)  will keep paying Europe’s highest power prices.  Italy, the only major world economy without atomic power,
had planned to build its first four reactors by 2020. The
government ordered a one-year moratorium after radiation leaked
from Fukushima, jeopardizing Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi ’s
goal of curbing dependence on energy imports.  Fiat and Parmalat, Italy’s biggest carmaker and dairy
producer, will probably continue to pay more for energy. Italian
companies paid twice as much for power in 2010 as their French
counterparts, 40 percent more than in the U.K. and 27 percent
more than German rivals, according to  Eurostat , the region’s
official provider of statistics.  “With everything blocked and no near-term solutions,
prices will stay high,” said Edoardo Liuni an analyst at
IlNuovoMercato.it in Rome. “Unfortunately, Italian companies
will continue to pay the price for immobility.”  Fiat highlighted rising energy costs among factors that
could potentially have a “material adverse” effect on earnings
in its 2010  annual report . The carmaker said it’s continually
working to find more energy-efficient production processes to
reduce costs.  Overturned Ban  Berlusconi’s centre-right coalition government in 2008
overturned a ban on nuclear energy imposed following the 1986
Chernobyl disaster.  Enel SpA (ENEL) , the country’s biggest utility, and
Electricite de France SA drew up plans to build new reactors to
supply 25 percent of the country’s energy needs. That would have
implied an installed nuclear base of 8 gigawatts, according to
UBS AG. Given the events in Japan, the government may lose a
planned referendum in June.  “It’s a pity, people were slowly coming round to nuclear
since we have it all around our borders and now we’re back into
paranoia,” said  Giuseppe Zollino , a nuclear engineer and
professor of energy economics at the University of Padua in
northern Italy. “The maddening thing is there is no plan, just
to keep paying more for energy.”  Other European countries have put their nuclear plans on
hold following the accident at  Japan ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
arising from the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Germany  halted
25 percent of its nuclear capacity and may close its oldest
plants for good.  Switzerland  deferred plans for new reactors and
the U.K. said it may delay its program.  ‘No-Win Scenario’  Europe has become more hesitant about nuclear energy at a
time when countries face difficulties in reducing any of the
factors that drive up power prices, said Tatjana Eifrig, an
energy analyst at Banca Finnat Euramerica in Rome.  “It’s a no-win scenario for energy buyers,” said Eifrig.
“You can’t cut taxes at a time of budget problems, renewables
involve large investments, and substituting nuclear with
traditional fuels tends to increase prices and forces companies
to pay emissions permits.”  Parmalat declined to comment on the impact of energy prices
on its operations, as did Fiat.  Italy’s nuclear blueprint formed the center of an energy
strategy aimed at reducing its dependence on fossil fuels from
80 percent to 50 percent.  Italy currently gets 60 percent of its electricity from
gas, mainly from Algeria and  Russia , according to data from grid
operator Terna SpA. The country obtains 12 percent of its
electricity from coal, 8 percent from oil and 20 percent from
hydroelectric and other renewable sources.  Increase Share  By 2020, Italy had planned to produce 50 percent of its
electricity from fossil fuels and the remaining 50 percent
equally divided between nuclear and renewable energy,
Environment Minister Stefania Prestigiacomo said last year.  Enel Green Power SpA (EGPW) , the renewable-energy arm of Enel
which listed in Milan last year, surged to a record 2.048 euros
earlier this month on speculation the halt in Italy’s nuclear
plans would spur greater investment.  “I don’t believe nuclear lowers electricity costs because
modern plants, which is what Italy would be building, have huge
initial costs that companies recover through bills later on,”
said Salvatore Barbera, a nuclear physicist and head of
 Greenpeace Italy’s  anti-nuclear campaign. “Renewable energy
which is becoming less expensive as we develop it makes much
more sense, is safe, and provides more jobs.”  Clean Energy Incentives  While the Italian government has announced plans to reduce
clean energy incentives, they currently remain the highest in
continental  Europe  for onshore wind, biomass, and hydro, and
among the highest for offshore wind and solar energy, according
to Brussels-based research firm  Europe’s Energy Portal .  Italian utilities pay 30 euro cents a kilowatt-hour for
onshore wind power, more than triple the equivalent rates in
France and Germany. They also pay three times French and German
rates for biomass and triple French rates for hydropower.  Yet renewable energy remains a limited part of the
country’s energy mix and doesn’t produce enough to supply power
for large industries. That means countries like Italy will have
to find ways to use traditional energy in more efficient ways.  “Near-term policies are likely to favor gas and energy
efficiency and to a lesser extent coal,” according to an April
4 report by UBS. “Undersupply will put upward pressure on
energy prices.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alessandra Migliaccio in  Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 