-- 
ITC Staff Recommends Siding With Nokia, HTC in Apple Case

-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 
2011-04-18T17:09:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/itc-staff-recommends-siding-with-nokia-htc-in-apple-patent-case.html
HTC Corp. (2498)  and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  shouldn’t
be found liable of infringing  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s patents, the staff of
the U.S. International Trade Commission recommended.  A staff lawyer, Erin Joffre, disclosed the position at the
start of an ITC trial in Washington today in which Apple is
seeking to ban imports of mobile phones made by HTC that run
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android operating system, as well as block some
Nokia devices. The staff acts on behalf of the public as a third
party in the case. Its recommendations aren’t binding.  The case is the first patent dispute over phones using the
Android operating system to reach this stage at the ITC, a
quasi-judicial federal agency that arbitrates trade disputes.
There are more than a dozen cases before the ITC over so-called
smartphones such as Apple’s iPhone as companies jockey for
position in what is now a $100 billion market.  “What makes Apple products so successful is not just what
you see, but what’s under the hood,” Apple lawyer Greg Arovas
of  Kirkland & Ellis  in  New York  said in opening arguments.  Apple claims Taoyuan, Taiwan-based HTC infringes five
patents that Arovas described as being important for the
“seamless integration of hardware and software” that makes the
products more flexible in dealing with the complex requirements
of having the equivalent of a personal computer in a phone.  ‘Narrow Distinction’  Administrative Law Judge Carl Charneski is scheduled to
release his findings Aug. 5. His order would be subject to
review by the full six-member commission, which can bar imports
of products found to infringe U.S. patents.  Mountain View ,
California-based Google isn’t a party in the case.  The patents including those related to signal processing
and inter-process communications are from technology developed
in the early 1990s and “were, at best, a very narrow
distinction” from the invention of others, HTC lawyer Robert Van Nest of Keker & Van Nest in  San Francisco  told the judge.  “HTC is a smartphone innovator and pioneer in the
smartphone sphere -- they were there long before Apple,” Van
Nest said. “The fundamental differences from the Apple patents
represent choices made by HTC and Google.”  Apple also alleges that Espoo, Finland-based Nokia is
infringing one patent that’s being asserted against HTC. The
claim was spun off from a separate complaint against Nokia,
which is scheduled to be decided by June 24.  A Nokia lawyer, Pat Flinn of Alston & Bird in Atlanta, said
Apple decided to “dredge up patents” to assert after it was
approached by the “pioneers of mobile phones” for royalties,
including Ericsson AB and Nokia.  Moot Patent  “Advances in technology have made the patent moot,” Flinn
said of the Apple patent for signal processing that’s asserted
against both companies. “The Apple iPhone doesn’t practice the
patent.”  HTC has its own claims against Apple. Proceedings in that
case before a different ITC judge are scheduled to begin May 9,
the week after the trial on Apple claims are completed.  An ITC judge last month said Cupertino, California-based
Apple wasn’t infringing Nokia patents.  The ITC complaint is In the Matter Of Certain Personal Data
and Mobile Communications Devices and Related Software, 337-710,
U.S. International Trade Commission ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Allan Holmes at 
 aholmes25@bloomberg.net  