-- 
Live Nation to Offer Flexible Ticket Pricing Based on Demand

-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-18T20:39:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/live-nation-offers-ticket-pricing-based-on-demand-in-drive-against-resales.html
Live Nation Entertainment Inc. (LYV) ’s
Ticketmaster division said it will begin pricing events based on
consumer demand in a drive to take revenue from resellers and
boost overall sales.  Clients including sports teams, music acts and promoters
will be able to adjust ticket prices based on how well the event
is selling, according to a statement today from  Beverly Hills ,
California-based Live Nation. The world’s biggest concert-
promoter and ticketing company is partnering with Los Angeles-
based MarketShare to provide the so-called dynamic pricing.  The system lets venue owners target the markups that
brokers charge for top events and sell more tickets for less-
popular acts. Dynamic pricing will reduce scalping, freeing-up
more tickets for consumers, the company said.  “The ultimate goal is to have the right ticket at the
right price for the fan,” Nathan Hubbard, chief executive
officer of Ticketmaster, said in an interview. “We want to open
up new more affordable options to get people out to the show.”  Hubbard said 40 percent of Ticketmaster’s inventory goes
unsold. The pricing system is being tested with some sports
teams, and should become more widely applied in the next several
months, Hubbard said.  Live Nation fell 14 cents, or 1.4 percent, to $9.73 at 4
p.m. in New York Stock Exchange composite trading. The shares
have declined 15 percent this year.  Lady Gaga, Giants  The price and quantity of tickets to sports teams including
the  San Francisco Giants  at online reseller Stubhub.com hasn’t
changed since those clubs began using dynamic pricing, Glenn Lehrman, a spokesman for the EBay Inc.-owned website, said in an
interview. So far teams have been unwilling to lower prices
below what season-ticket holders pay, he said.  “It’s more like variable pricing,” Lehrman said. “They
keep moving the price up but they never drop it. If they still
have tickets right before the show, I doubt we’ll see those
suddenly drop to $1 or $2.”  High profile events such as Lady Gaga concerts still garner
premiums, Lehrman said. For prices to drop, promoters must hold
fewer tickets for special customers, he said.  “It’s more a supply issue than a price issue,” Lehrman
said. “With all the holdbacks on tickets, it’s impossible to
know how many are being made available. That is what drives
ticket prices up.”  Elevation Investment  Live Nation said the new pricing system will be part of
Ticketmaster’s LiveAnalytics division, which uses the parent
company’s consumer data to help clients including venue owners
boost ticket sales.  “It will lower arbitrage opportunity and make it less
likely tickets get snapped up because they’re being sold below
their market value,” Hubbard said. “Most scalpers buy those
tickets and make huge spreads and a big business out of that.”  MarketShare’s forecasting models are used by Hollywood
studios and video-game companies, Live Nation said. Elevation
Partners, a  Menlo Park , California-based private equity firm co-
founded by U2 lead singer Bono,  invested  $32 million in the
closely held company, according to an April 14 MarketShare
statement. Elevation took a minority position in February 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  