-- 
J&J Faces Hurdles Showing Investors It’s Time for Big Deals

-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-18T20:41:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/j-j-faces-hurdles-showing-investors-time-is-right-for-big-deals.html
Johnson & Johnson may have trouble
proving to some investors that the time is right for a big
acquisition as it seeks to recover from pulling more than 50
drugs and devices off the market since the start of 2010.  J&J is in talks to buy  Synthes Inc. (SYST)  and there’s no
certainty an agreement will be reached,  West Chester ,
Pennsylvania-based Synthes said today in a statement. J&J is
based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey . At its current market value
of $19.4 billion, Synthes would be the biggest purchase in
Johnson & Johnson’s 125 year history.  A deal would expand J&J’s presence in the $5.5 billion
global market for screws, plates, grafts and other tools to
treat damaged bones. It would also burden J&J, the world’s
second-biggest maker of health-care products, with another
business grappling with recalls and charges of pushing dangerous
products. Chief Executive Officer William C. Weldon is already
managing recalls, a U.S. probe of J&J’s consumer manufacturing
and 1,000 lawsuits tied to faulty artificial hips.  “You could make a fair argument it’s not the right time to
expand,” said Mark Bussard, an analyst at Baltimore-based T.
Rowe Price Group Inc., which held 21 million J&J shares in
December. “If I were on their board, I might be asking, ‘Why
don’t we spend the next year getting our house in order, and
then talk about a $20 billion acquisition?’”  William Price, a  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  spokesman, declined to
comment in an e-mail today.  J&J, Synthes Shares  J&J fell 10 cents to $60.46 at 4:01 p.m. in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The stock has fallen 7 percent in
the 12 months before today, even as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Health Care Index climbed by 5.7 percent. New York-based  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)  is the biggest maker of medical products by annual sales.  Synthes jumped 7.80 Swiss francs, or 5.6 percent, to 146.50
francs at the 5:30p.m. close of Zurich trading, adding to a 6.2
percent rise on April 15.  A transaction valued at 140 francs to 160 francs a share
would be “reasonable,” based on historical transaction
multiples, analysts at Sanford C. Bernstein, including  Jack Scannell  in  London , said today in a report. That would be as
much as 15 percent higher than the April 15 closing price, when
Synthes was valued at 16.5 billion francs ($18.4 billion).  J&J recalls include almost 200 million packages of Tylenol,
Motrin and other over-the-counter medications. Its DePuy unit
has also withdrawn 93,000 hip implants that failed at higher-
than-expected rates, forcing repeat surgeries.  Consent Decree  The company’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit signed a
consent decree on March 10 giving the U.S. Food & Drug
Administration expanded oversight of three manufacturing plants
for five years, following recalls of over-the-counter drugs with
musty odors or incorrect ingredients. The settlement doesn’t
preclude future criminal charges, the agency said at the time.  That makes timing difficult for pursuing a big deal,  Erik Gordon , a business professor at the  University of Michigan  in
 Ann Arbor  who studies the biomedical industry.  “Your ship is going across the ocean and you’ve careened
into about 50 icebergs,” Gordon said in a telephone interview.
“The thing to do is pump out the water and fix the guidance
system instead of saying, ‘You know, what we really need is to
speed the ship up or put a new piano in the lounge.’”  To be sure, J&J and Synthes aren’t the only device makers
to pull products and face lawsuits, Bussard said. Joint-implant
makers  Stryker Corp. (SYK)  and  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and  Medtronic
Inc. (MDT) , the biggest maker of defibrillators and pacemakers, also
faced recalls in recent years, he said.  ‘Bad Luck’  J&J’s DePuy division may be able to absorb a $20 billion
addition, even amid the recalls, Bussard said. In contrast to
the consumer unit’s missteps, DePuy seems more a victim of
“really bad luck,” he said. “With orthopedics, there aren’t
the same questions about management’s credibility.”  Bussard said he would need more details on the costs of a
Synthes deal or how it fits into J&J’s business strategy to
judge the move. Given the risks of any large acquisition,
shareholders might be better served if the money was put toward
a stock buyback or some other purpose, he said.  Synthes traces its roots to a 1958 venture by four Swiss
surgeons, according to its  website . In February 1999, the
company, then closely held, merged with Swiss medical equipment
maker Stratec Holding AG to become the market leader in bone-
trauma devices. The company acquired closely held Mathys
Medizinaltechnik AG in 2003 to expand in Europe and  Asia .  Synthes, which trades in Zurich, generated $3.69 billion in
revenue in 2010, an increase of 77 percent in five years. Its
net income more than doubled in that period, to $907.7 million
last year.  Family Trust  Synthes Chairman Hansjoerg Wyss, 75, is the second-richest
person in  Switzerland  with $6.4 billion in assets, according to
 Forbes  magazine. The former Synthes CEO controls 48 percent of
company shares along with the Wyss Family Trusts, according to
Bloomberg data.  Wyss has never said whether he wants to sell or what his
plans are for his stake, Gilgian Eisner, a spokesman, said in a
telephone interview yesterday.  Synthes’s Norian unit pleaded guilty in November to one
felony and 110 misdemeanor counts for conducting an unauthorized
trial of its bone-mending cement products, Norian XR and Norian
SRS. The stock has gained 23 percent since the settlement, after
dropping 16 percent in the previous 10 months.  The cement, approved for elsewhere in the body, was used in
the spines of 200 patients with fractured vertebrae, the U.S.
 Justice Department  said in an Oct. 4 statement. Three patients
died on operating tables, the statement said.  The tests were Synthes’s attempt to avoid the time and
expense of winning FDA approval for expanded use, according to
the Justice Department. The company went ahead although pilot
tests suggested the spinal procedures could lead to fatal blood
clots, prosecutors said.  A ‘Different Level’  The deaths and the “subversion” of rules “took this to a
different level” than other fraud cases, said Gregory Demske,
an assistant inspector general with the  U.S. Department of
Health  and Human Services, in a telephone interview last year.  Synthes agreed to pay $23.5 million in fines and to sell
Norian, the first time the U.S. has ordered a device maker to
sell a subsidiary in a health-fraud probe, Demske said. Synthes
pleaded guilty to one misdemeanor count of shipping an
adulterated product and entered into a five-year corporate
integrity agreement with the U.S.  If regulators aren’t satisfied with Synthes’s conduct, the
company could be banned from Medicare, the U.S. insurance
program for the elderly, the Justice Department statement said.
Four former Norian executives plead guilty or no-contest to
criminal charges and are awaiting sentencing.  In an Oct. 4  statement , Synthes said it “remains committed
to operating in accordance with the highest legal and ethical
standards, and bringing closure to this matter will permit the
company to focus on its mission to improve patient care.”  ‘Imminent Hazard’  Synthes also recalled spinal implants in 2009 after reports
that the Synex II Central Body components had failed in six
people, leading to pain and loss of height for some, the company
said in a Nov. 4, 2009,  statement . The FDA said the devices
could pose an “imminent hazard” to patients’ health.  Eisner, the Synthes spokesman, said the company had
produced “thousands” of Synex implants that caused no
problems. No deaths were reported and the recall didn’t require
the removal of devices that were already implanted if they
didn’t prompt complaints, he said. The company is developing a
replacement for the device.  Synthes’s history nonetheless suggests Johnson & Johnson may
be “doubling down on trouble,” Professor Gordon said.  “J&J could spend $20 billion to buy more litigation to
settle and even more skepticism from the FDA,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  