-- 
Japanese Bond Futures Rise for Fifth Day as Stocks Decline on U.S. Rating

-- B y   M a s a k i   K o n d o
-- 
2011-04-19T06:20:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/japan-government-bonds-may-rise-as-global-stock-slump-boosts-safety-demand.html
Japanese bond futures advanced for
a fifth day as Asian shares slumped after  Standard & Poor’s  cut
the U.S. credit rating outlook to negative.  The contracts extended their winning streak to the longest
in eight months as concern  Greece  will be unable to avoid a
default boosted demand for the relative safety of  Japan ’s debt.
Japanese bonds were also bolstered as concern eased that
rebuilding from the country’s biggest earthquake on March 11
will constrain the nation’s finances.  “The S&P announcement and Greek problems could trigger
some liquidation of Japanese holdings of overseas bonds and
could help JGBs rally,” said Christian Carrillo, head of Asia-
Pacific interest-rate strategy at  Societe Generale  in  Tokyo ,
referring to Japanese government bonds. “Japan is a net
creditor to Europe and the U.S.”  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery rose 0.18 to 139.54
at the 3 p.m. close of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, completing the
longest stretch of gains since the six days ended Aug. 18.  The benchmark 10-year yield fell one basis point to 1.235
percent as of 3:05 p.m. in Tokyo at Japan Bond Trading Co., the
nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The 1.3 percent
security due March 2021 rose 0.088 yen to 100.573 yen. The yield
earlier declined to 1.23 percent, the lowest since March 31.  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average dropped for a third day,
losing 1.2 percent.  S&P put a negative outlook on the U.S.’s AAA credit rating,
assigning a one-in-three chance of a ratings cut in the next two
years. The company cited a risk U.S. policy makers will fail to
agree on how to solve “budgetary challenges.”  Greek Concern  The cost of insuring Greek government debt rose to a record
yesterday, with contracts indicating investors see a greater
than 60 percent chance the nation will default within five years.
Greece asked the  International Monetary Fund  and the European
Union to extend the maturities of all the country’s debt, the
Athens-based Eleftherotypia newspaper reported.  Japanese bonds were also boosted after the Yomiuri
newspaper reported the government is considering raising the
 consumption tax  to 8 percent from 5 percent for three years.  The country may sell more than 10 trillion yen ($121
billion) in bonds to finance post-quake reconstruction efforts,
the Yomiuri said in a separate article, citing an unidentified
official of the ruling Democratic Party of Japan.  Budget Discipline  The reports “can spur investors to buy bonds because of a
reduced risk that budgetary discipline will be eroded through a
supplementary budget,” Shunsuke Doi, a market analyst at SMBC
Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo, wrote in a note to clients. SMBC
Nikko is one of the 24 primary dealers obliged to bid at the
government’s debt sales.  Ten-year yields will drop to 1.20 percent by Sept. 30,
according to analyst forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  The gain in bonds was tempered on speculation a rising cost
of living will erode the value of the fixed payments from debt.  The  Bank of Japan  will increase its inflation forecast to
about 0.5 percent from 0.3 percent for the year ending March
2012 in a semi-annual report due April 28, people familiar with
the matter told Bloomberg.  The difference between yields on five-year notes and
inflation securities, a gauge of expectations for consumer
prices over the life of the debt, was at minus 0.35 percentage
points from minus 0.55 percentage points at the end of March.  German bond yields fell from a 22-month high relative to
Japanese debt after  Bill Gross , who manages the world’s largest
bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said he favors
the European country’s securities.  Pimco favors  government bonds  from  Germany , Canada and
 Brazil  over Treasuries because those nations have lower debt
levels, Gross said in an interview on CNBC. They also have a
“better” growth outlook, he said.  The extra yield investors demand to hold 10-year German
bonds instead of similar-maturity Japanese debt shrank to 2
percentage points from 2.16 percentage points on April 11, the
widest since June 2009, boosting the relative allure of the
Asian nation’s securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masaki Kondo in  Singapore  at 
 mkondo3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 