-- 
Asahi Bicycle Sales Double as Commuters Haunted by Quake Seek Alternative

-- B y   H i d e k i   S a g i i k e   a n d   A n n a   K i t a n a k a
-- 
2011-04-19T07:51:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/japan-bicycle-retailer-s-sales-triple-as-commuters-haunted-by-earthquake.html
Tokyo  residents haunted by the
memory of how the March 11  earthquake  shut the world’s busiest
subway system are returning to bicycle travel, doubling the
sales of retailer Asahi Co. in the area last month.  “I was in Tokyo when the earthquake hit, and everything
stopped,” company President Susumu Shimoda said in an
interview. “Trains stopped, buses were in chaos and cars were
jammed. Within that, you could just see bicycles swimming
through. Some of our stores stayed open until 4 a.m. to meet the
surge in demand.”  Asahi, the best performer on the 146-member  Topix Retail
Trade Index (TPRETL)  this year, has gained 13 percent since the
magnitude-9  temblor  and the ensuing tsunami. Tokyo’s  subway
system , which transports about 8 million riders daily, halted
operations on March 11, forcing commuters to wait hours for
taxis, search for a place to spend the night, or walk home.  Among those who walked was Hiroko Indei, 35, who works for
 Conzzeta AG (CZH) ’s Mammut Sports Group. She was one of the luckier
Tokyo residents as a co-worker who has served as an Alpine guide
helped her. If not for that, the walk home might have been
longer than the 3-1/2 hours that she endured, Indei said.  Shimano Gears  Bicycle sales for Osaka-based Asahi doubled in the Kanto
region since March 11 through the beginning of this month,
Shimoda said in Tokyo. While growth will slow, sales will keep
increasing as oil prices rise, he said. The Kanto region, which
includes Tokyo, has about a third of Japan’s estimated  128
million people .  The increased interest in bikes has helped other companies.
Bicycle gears and brakes maker  Shimano Inc. (7309)  has gained 7.1
percent in  Osaka  since the quake, after losing 1.5 percent in
the year through March 10.  “If Asahi are saying that their sales are increasing, then
we should be able to expect an increase in orders for us as
well,” Yoshihiro Hirata, Shimano’s head of accounting, said
yesterday. “We have seen orders increase after the disaster.”  Shimano trades at 2.3 times its price-to-book ratio while
Asahi is at 3.3 times. That compares with a ratio of 1.5 for the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average and 1.2 for the broader Topix index.  The gains of Asahi and Shimano since March 11 have outpaced
the Topix, which has lost 9.6 percent in the period. The bicycle
retailer, which isn’t connected to Asahi Breweries Ltd., climbed
1.1 percent to 1,537 yen at the 3 p.m. close of trading in
Tokyo. The stock has surged 40 percent this year. Shimano shares
slipped 0.5 percent to 4,240 yen today.  Giant Sales  “In addition to the disorder in the public transportation
system, rising gasoline prices are also boosting the demand for
bicycles,” said Akinori Sato, an analyst at Daiwa Securities
Capital Markets Co. who has a “neutral” rating on Asahi and an
“outperform” rating on Shimano. “This isn’t a phenomenon for
just the Kanto region, but for the whole country.”  Michael Badilla, an immigrant from the  Philippines  who has
lived in Tokyo for a decade, bought a bike for 20,000 yen ($242)
on March 16 from a  Costco Wholesale Corp. (COST)  store near Tokyo. “I
wanted a bicycle as it’s tiresome to walk to the shops, and
gasoline prices are high,” he said. “Then the earthquake
happened on March 11, and I heard about how my friend left her
office at 4 in the afternoon and got home at 11 at night.”  Taiwan’s Giant Manufacturing Co., the world’s biggest
bicycle maker according to data compiled by Bloomberg, said its
wholly owned unit in Japan saw revenue rise 23 percent in March.
Still, the impact on Giant will probably be “short term,”
Jeffrey Sheu, a spokesman, said by phone yesterday.  The Japanese unit sold 90,000 Giant brand bikes in 2010 and
expects 10 percent growth this year, Sheu said. The Taiwanese
company also sells bicycles in  Japan  through Hodaka Co., of
which it owns 49 percent.  Store Growth  Giant has climbed 2.2 percent since March 11, compared with
the 0.8 percent gain of the benchmark Taiex index. The stock
fell 2.9 percent to NT$116.50 in Taipei trading today.  Asahi forecasts that revenue will increase 15 percent to
32.9 billion yen in the current fiscal year ending Feb. 20,
2012, with net income rising 11 percent to 2.4 billion yen, it
said April 4.  “Normally we would be really happy if in ordinary
circumstances, sales grew by this much, but this time my
feelings are mixed,” Shimoda said. “I do feel a responsibility
to keep supply up for the demand.”  The bicycle seller plans to boost its  stores  33 percent to
315 in the next two years, Shimoda said. Sales should grow to 50
billion yen a year by then, with an increase in market share to
20 percent from 12 percent now, he said. By 2017, the plan is to
have 500 stores, with sales of 60 billion yen to 70 billion yen,
he said, more than double the 28.7 billion yen in revenue in the
last fiscal year.  ‘Disorderly’ Timetable  “Bicycle demand has been increasing since the earthquake,
especially around Tokyo,” said Miyuki Kimizuka, an official at
the  Japan Bicycle Promotion Institute . About 9.5 million
bicycles were  sold  in Japan last year, according to the
institute.  Japan may enter a brief recession this quarter as a result
of the earthquake, Asian Development Bank chief economist Rhee Chang Yong said on March 15. The quake and tsunami, which led to
what Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  described as the country’s worst
crisis since World War II, has left almost 28,000 people dead or
missing, according to the  National Police Agency .  “The timetable for trains and buses is disorderly,” said
Hiro Suzuki, a 24-year-old employee of a game machine maker in
Tokyo. “My colleagues who live in Tokyo say that it’s really
difficult when the trains stop running. They’re pretty envious
that I can ride my bike to work.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hideki Sagiike in Tokyo at 
 hsagiike@bloomberg.net ;
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  