-- 
Jonathan Wins Nigerian Vote as Riots Show Political Divide

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a   a n d   D u l u e   M b a c h u
-- 
2011-04-19T16:15:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/jonathan-wins-nigerian-presidential-vote-as-riots-show-political-divisions.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan  suspended his interior minister after violent protests
against his election victory killed at least six people in
Africa’s biggest oil producer.  Clashes between Christians and Muslims broke out for a
second day in the northern city of Kaduna, Shehu Sani, head of
the Civil Rights Congress, said today by phone from the city.  “The clashes are going on now, churches and mosques are
being burnt,” he said.  Jonathan, 53, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger River
delta region, defeated his nearest rival, former military ruler
 Muhammadu Buhari , a northern Muslim, in the April 16 vote by a
57 percent to 31 percent margin, the electoral commission said.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most populous nation with 150 million
residents, is roughly split between a mostly Muslim north and a
largely Christian south, a divide reflected in voting for the
election. Jonathan will need to convince northerners that he is
a credible ruler for all Nigerians while relying on a divided
legislature to pass laws to regulate oil exploration and promote
investment in the industry.  The Nigerian army expressed “grave concern” about the
violence, in a statement handed to reporters in Abuja, the
capital.  “The Nigerian Armed Forces remain committed and totally
loyal to the government of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and
as such will not sit down and watch unpatriotic people take laws
into their hands,” according to the statement.  Minister Suspended  Jonathan ordered the immediate suspension of Interior
Minister Emmanuel Iheanacho, presidency spokesman  Ima Niboro 
said today in an e-mailed statement from Abuja.  “I am greatly pained at reports of incidences of
unnecessary violence and loss of lives and property in some
parts of the country,” Jonathan said in his acceptance speech
late yesterday in Abuja. “We must quickly move away from
partisan battle grounds and find the national common ground.”  Opposition supporters in several northern cities burned
buildings and attacked members of the ruling People’s  Democratic
Party  after results yesterday showed that Jonathan would win the
election. A police station and a church in the northern town of
Kaduna were set on fire, and riots spread from Gombe to towns
including Bauchi, Zaria, Azare and Potiskum, a police spokesman
for the region, Suleiman Lawal, said yesterday.  North-South ‘Polarized’  “The polarized north-south results of the election
underline a looming political and cultural divide in the
country, which may lead to further tension,” Sebastian Boe, a
political analyst at IHS Global Insight in  London , said in an e-
mailed note.  The election was “credible,” observers from the
Commonwealth group of nations said in a statement. The last
elections, in 2007, were described by international and local
monitors as flawed by intimidation of voters and ballot fraud.  “The transparent presidential election will boost
 Nigeria ’s institutional and democratic credentials,” said  Samir Gadio , sub-Saharan analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd. in
London. “Jonathan’s decisive win will ease investor concerns.”  Nigeria’s dollar bonds due 2021 added 0.6 percent to
103.490 cents on the dollar as of 4:31 p.m. in London, the
highest level since the debt was issued in January, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield fell eight basis points to
6.27 percent. The $500 million of bonds are Nigeria’s only
international notes.  Stocks Rise  The benchmark Nigerian Stock Exchange All Share Index rose
for the sixth day, the longest winning streak since Jan. 6,
adding 0.3 percent to 25,384.10 by the 2:30 p.m. close in Lagos,
according to a statement on the bourse’s website.  Concerns over sectarian and election-related violence
before the polls sparked a rise in domestic demand for foreign
currency, weakening the naira to an 18-month low of 157.04
against the dollar on March 17. The currency traded at 154.46 as
of 4:04 p.m. in Lagos, the strongest versus the dollar since
April 8.  Since Nigeria’s return to civilian government in 1999 after
15 years of military rule, income disparities have widened,
fueling ethnic and religious violence. About 54 percent of the
population lives on less than $1 a day, about 22 million
citizens are illiterate, and maternal mortality is 800 per
100,000 live births, a rate among the highest in the world,
according to the  United Nations Development Programme .  Petroleum Industry Bill  Jonathan, who assumed office last May after the death of
Umaru Yar’Adua, has pledged to push a petroleum industry law
through parliament. Passage of such legislation has been delayed
for two years, deterring investment by companies such as  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and  Total SA. (FP)  Oil exploration in Nigeria has
slumped to the lowest in a decade; only one well was drilled in
the past two years, compared with 34 in 2002, according to the
Petroleum Ministry.  “President Jonathan’s most important task after his
inauguration will be the passage of the long-awaited Petroleum
Industry Bill, currently laying dormant in the out-of-session
parliament,” Boe said. It “represents a sweeping overhaul of
the country’s lucrative oil and gas industry, establishing new
regulatory structures and fiscal regimes.”  Nigeria is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports.
Paris-based Total, Hague-based Shell, Irving, Texas-based  Exxon
Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of  San Ramon ,  California , and  Eni SpA (ENI) 
of  Rome  run joint ventures with the state-owned Nigerian
National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90 percent of the
West African nation’s oil.  Amnesty for Militants  Jonathan has promised to continue an amnesty for former
militants in the Niger River delta, a policy that has helped
boost oil output there by 27 percent since July 2009. Attacks by
rebels in the region cut Nigeria’s oil output by more than 28
percent between 2006 and 2009.  Rising oil prices have spurred growth in the economy, which
expanded an average 6.9 percent annually over the past five
years, according to data from the  International Monetary Fund .
The same pace of growth is expected this year, the Washington-
based lender said in its World Economic Outlook report on April
11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 