-- 
JPMorgan Private-Equity Holdings Increase 16% on Market Gains, New Stakes

-- B y   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 
2011-04-18T19:15:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/jpmorgan-says-private-equity-holdings-increased-16-in-quarter.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s private-
equity portfolio increased 16 percent during the first quarter
as the company stepped up investments in firms that aren’t
publicly traded.  The bank, ranked second by assets in the U.S., pegged the
carrying value of its portfolio at $10.1 billion, 6.6 percent
below cost, according to a  supplement  released April 13 along
with the New York-based company’s earnings. The cost of the
portfolio was listed at $10.8 billion, an 8.2 percent increase
in three months. Compared with a year earlier, the carrying
value rose 39 percent and the cost by 24 percent.  Private-equity managers have been marking up holdings as
stock markets rose, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index posting
a 21 percent return including dividends since the start of 2010.
KKR & Co., founded by billionaires Henry R. Kravis and George R. Roberts, said last quarter that all except one of its private-
equity funds were marked above cost. All the private-equity
holdings at Stephen Schwarzman’s  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  are above
cost, according to its quarterly report.  JPMorgan told investors that future returns will be
“volatile,” according to a  slide presentation  accompanying
first-quarter results. Mary Callahan Erdoes, chief executive
officer of J.P. Morgan Asset Management, said during a February
investor conference that the bank’s activity in  hedge funds ,
private equity and real assets “continues to help us understand
the markets better and be closer to our clients.”  Realized Gains  Total private-equity gains jumped 88 percent in three
months and 435 percent from a year earlier to $727 million, the
bank said. Realized gains on direct investments totaled $171
million and unrealized gains were $370 million.  Howard Opinsky, a JPMorgan spokesman, declined to comment.
Carrying value doesn’t account for holdings that may have been
sold at a profit.  JPMorgan reported total first-quarter net income rose 67
percent to $5.56 billion, aided by a decrease in provisions for
bad mortgages and credit-card loans. The private-equity
portfolio represents 7.7 percent of stockholder equity minus
goodwill, JPMorgan said.  One Equity Partners, led by managing partner Dick Cashin,
accounts for the largest portion of the bank’s private-equity
holdings. The unit manages about $8 billion of  investments  and
commitments, according to its website. Among the 33 holdings
listed are TV Guide Network, the media company based in
Hollywood, California, and New York-based Prodigy Health Group,
described as the largest privately held benefits management firm
in the U.S.  Volcker Rule  Banks may face curbs on some investment activities because
of the Volcker rule, a part of the regulatory overhaul passed
last year that was championed by former Federal Reserve Chairman
 Paul Volcker . The rule is designed to deter banks that receive
government support, such as federal  deposit insurance , from
risking their money on trades or investments in hedge funds or
private-equity funds.  The provision, which is still being interpreted by
regulators, doesn’t explicitly prohibit banks from making long-
term investments similar to those made by private-equity funds.
JPMorgan CEO  Jamie Dimon  said in September the bank could
continue to make merchant-banking investments through One
Equity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristina Alesci in  New York  at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Rick Green in New York at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net . 