-- 
Kengeter Plan Thwarted at UBS Spurs Gruebel Cuts to Buoy Return on Equity

-- B y   E l e n a   L o g u t e n k o v a   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 
2011-04-18T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/kengeter-plan-thwarted-at-ubs-spurs-gruebel-cuts-to-buoy-return-on-equity.html
Carsten Kengeter, charged with
rebuilding  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s investment bank two years ago, is being
thwarted by regulators and the departures of top managers.
Analysts say that may be for the better.  Since 2009, when Chief Executive Officer  Oswald Gruebel 
gave Kengeter the task of returning the money-losing unit to an
annual pre-crisis profit of 6 billion Swiss francs ($6.7
billion) by 2014, its revenue has trailed that of competitors,
including  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  The Zurich-
based firm’s share of fees and trading revenue declined the most
of any of the world’s nine biggest investment banks over the
past five years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gruebel, 67, described the unit’s performance in February
as “not yet satisfactory” and said he would cut costs if
revenue didn’t increase. In the past two months, four of the 10
business heads who reported to Kengeter have said they’ll leave.  “They’re not going to be able to repair this bank back to
pre-crisis levels,” said  Simon Maughan , co-head of European
equities at MF Global Ltd. in London, who has a “sell” rating
on UBS. “Too much damage has been done, and the world has moved
on. Gruebel needs to revise down his targets for the investment
bank, as they aren’t going to meet them. The market knows they
haven’t got a chance.”  Capital Rules  Gruebel may cut his targets for the investment bank because
they were set before the  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision 
stiffened its rules last year, forcing lenders to set aside more
capital for their riskiest operations. Swiss regulators have
forced UBS and competitor  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  to fulfill
Basel’s stricter requirements on trading-book capital since
January, a year before their international competitors.  The Swiss government, which rescued UBS with a 6 billion-
franc capital injection during the financial crisis, last year
proposed making the country’s two biggest banks hold almost
twice as much capital as the new Basel rules will require
starting in 2019. That means Swiss banks would have to earn
twice as much as international competitors to achieve the same
return on equity, a measure of profitability.  “These banks are very big relative to the Swiss national
balance sheet,” said Simon Johnson, a professor at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology’s Sloan School of
Management and a Bloomberg News columnist. “They can’t afford
to get into an Iceland or Ireland type of situation.”  Cutting the fixed-income unit’s 8 billion-franc annual
revenue target by half would reduce the capital consumed by the
division and improve UBS’s return on equity by 17 percent,
according to Nicholas Watts, an analyst at Redburn Partners LLP
in  London  who has a “buy” rating on UBS shares. The bank’s
shares are up 5 percent since the start of the year.  Missing the Boom  UBS, which ratcheted down risk after taking more than $57
billion in writedowns and credit losses during the financial
crisis, missed out on the boom of 2009. It was the only one of
the nine biggest investment banks to report a loss from fixed-
income trading that year.  More than 1,700 people were hired across the investment
bank in the past two years to replace bankers who were fired or
had left. As fixed-income trading revenue came close to UBS’s
target in the first half of 2010,  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
struck, and revenue fell by more than half in the second six
months of the year.  “I don’t think investors either think that it’s
particularly achievable or particularly desirable” for UBS to
return earnings to their pre-crisis level, said Piers Brown, a
London-based analyst at Evolution Securities Ltd. who rates the
bank a “buy.” “If they came out with a more modest, realistic
set of targets that would, perversely, probably increase the
valuation of the securities unit.”  Kengeter Takes Charge  Kengeter, 44, joined UBS in December 2008 from  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to help restructure the fixed-income business
that was most responsible for record losses in the crisis.  Gruebel, a former bond trader and CEO of Credit Suisse,
came out of retirement in February 2009, and two months later
put Kengeter in charge of revamping the entire investment bank
along with Alexander Wilmot-Sitwell. Wilmot-Sitwell, 50, moved
to  Hong Kong  last year to help run the bank’s Asian unit,
leaving Kengeter as the sole head. UBS declined to make Kengeter
or Gruebel available for an interview for this story.  The investment bank posted its first annual pretax profit
in 2010 since 2006. The gain of 2.2 billion francs accounted for
29 percent of UBS’s total earnings. By 2014, the securities unit
aims to generate 40 percent of the bank’s 15 billion-franc
profit target. It produced a pretax return on equity of 8.7
percent in 2010 compared with the 45 percent return made by the
division that includes wealth management and Swiss banking.  Market Share  “The wealth-management business is very profitable, and
that is still a very, very good business to have,” said Guy de Blonay, who manages 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion) including
UBS shares at Jupiter Fund Management Plc in London. “Where the
story has to improve and become the big driver for earnings over
time is the investment bank. Nobody is really believing that
Gruebel will reach his target” for fixed-income revenue.  Kengeter told Swiss magazine Bilanz in an interview
published in December that he wants to bring UBS’s equities
business to the No. 1 spot and fixed-income trading to a top-
five place globally.  UBS ranked fifth in fixed-income trading in 2004, when John Costas headed the investment bank, and was second only to
Goldman Sachs in equities trading, which includes the sale and
trading of stocks, equity derivatives and services for  hedge
funds , according to Bloomberg data. The investment bank has
since gone through five CEO changes and six management
replacements at the debt-trading unit.  Revenue Trails  UBS was fifth in equities last year and ninth in fixed
income, Bloomberg data show. The figures may not be fully
comparable because European banks such as UBS and Deutsche Bank
use different accounting standards from their U.S. counterparts.  While UBS doubled its share of the more than $180 billion
of revenue from trading and  investment banking  produced by the
nine biggest investment banks last year from the previous year,
it was still the smallest, trailing Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan,
 Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Deutsche Bank,  Barclays
Plc (BARC) , Morgan Stanley and Credit Suisse, Bloomberg data show.  The lender’s 6.9 percent share of combined revenue last
year was 2.9 percentage points lower than its 2006 level, the
biggest drop among the nine banks, when adjusted for gains or
losses from banks’ own credit spreads that some firms report as
revenue, the data show.  ‘Damaged by Events’  The firm’s share of fees from advising on mergers and
acquisitions, underwriting stock and bond sales and syndicated
lending this year is at its lowest level in more than a decade,
according to New York-based consulting firm Freeman & Co. UBS
may be missing out on some larger deals because constraints on
its balance sheet limit the amount of financing it can offer,
former UBS bankers said.  “The bank clearly has issues,” said Evolution’s Brown.
“On the equities side, the franchise has definitely been
damaged by events of the last two to three years. There is no
doubt that they don’t have the same traction in either cash
equity or on the advisory side that they had pre-crisis.”  In 2010, UBS was a top-three player in only cash equities
trading, one of the 12 main investment-bank businesses,
according to  Christopher Wheeler , a London-based analyst at
Mediobanca SpA. There the bank’s position is being threatened by
increased competition from banks including Credit Suisse,
JPMorgan and Barclays, he said.  ‘Desk-by-Desk’  UBS saw the biggest improvement last year in credit
trading, which includes underwriting, sales and trading of
bonds, derivates, notes and loans. It posted revenue of 2.3
billion francs, more than double the 2014 target. Credit trading
will be one of the areas within the investment bank most hurt by
the changes in capital rules, according to Wheeler’s estimates.  The bank will assess each of its investment-banking units
on a “desk-by-desk basis” to boost returns, Chief Financial
Officer John Cryan said in February. The bank may seek to “de-
emphasize some businesses that look as though we can’t make them
profitable or they use too much capital for the profit
potential,” he said.  The bank is “optimizing our business mix in light of the
regulatory environment,” spokesman Dominik von Arx said in an
e-mail. “We are assessing the impact of the new capital
standards and taking appropriate action as needed.”  With revenue slow to rebound, the bank is cutting costs.
UBS probably reduced headcount at the investment bank by about 5
percent in the first quarter to reflect a “less buoyant revenue
environment,” Huw van Steenis and Hubert Lam, analysts at
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , said in an April 13 note to clients.  Pay for Performance  Gruebel has said UBS wants to link pay more directly to
performance. While average compensation in the investment bank
rose last year, some underperforming bankers had their pay cut,
according to current and former bankers who asked not to be
identified because they weren’t authorized to speak. Levels of
voluntary attrition at the bank are lower than before the
crisis, von Arx said.  The four senior bankers leaving this year are  Neal Shear , a
56-year-old former Morgan Stanley executive who headed UBS’s
securities business for about a year; Dimitrios Psyllidis, 44,
co-head of fixed income who’s leaving for personal reasons; John Wall, a UBS veteran of more than 23 years and co-head of
investment banking since September 2009, who retired last month;
and Matthew Koder, head of the global capital-markets business,
who took a job at Bank of America. All four declined to comment,
didn’t return phone calls or weren’t reachable.  ‘Vicious Circle’  “It’s a vicious circle,” said Chris Roebuck, a visiting
professor at Cass Business School in London, who has worked at
UBS, HSBC Holdings Plc and KPMG LLP. “Once you’ve lost senior
people, more think about leaving.”  Other departing bankers include European mergers co-head
Pat Guerin, 40, who left for Citigroup last month; Stuart Hendel
and Charlotte Burkeman, who are moving to Bank of America as
global head of prime brokerage and co-head of prime brokerage
for Europe, the Middle East and  Africa ; Michael Vasseghi, head
of U.S. macro structuring, who joined the bank in 2010; and Greg Morris, head of U.S. equity structured products distribution.  “The recent comings and goings in the management team at
UBS have raised some eyebrows,” said John Purcell, managing
director at executive search firm Purcell & Co. in London. “In
particular, the loss of Koder will smart. Some of the other
departures UBS will feel quite relaxed about and are just
natural attrition and the rough and tumble of City life.”  UBS needs to come up with a new plan for its investment
bank to alleviate uncertainty that may be pushing some bankers
to leave, said Mediobanca’s Wheeler, who has an “outperform”
rating on UBS and expects the bank to disclose the results of
its business review later this year.  “People don’t like uncertainty,” Wheeler said. “The
problem that everyone is wrestling with is: Can you shrink an
investment bank of that scale, and will that mean that you would
lose a lot more people? It’s a very difficult one.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elena Logutenkova in Zurich at 
 elogutenkova@bloomberg.net ;
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  