-- 
Kenny Says Ireland Will Not Default as Greece Concerns Mount

-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n   a n d   A n d r e a   C a t h e r w o o d
-- 
2011-04-18T16:33:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/kenny-says-ireland-won-t-default-on-debt-as-greece-investor-concerns-mount.html
Irish Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
said the nation won’t default on its debt as he tries to rebuild
confidence at a time when investors speculate  Greece  may
struggle to pay back its borrowings.  “The Greek government will obviously deal with this
problem in the best way it can,” said Kenny, 59, in an
interview with  Andrea Catherwood  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Last Word” in  London  today. “We have no intention of
defaulting. We’ve made that perfectly clear. We want to continue
to pay our way.”  Irish, Greek and Portuguese bonds fell today amid mounting
speculation Greece will have to restructure its debt. All three
countries have sought bailouts from the European Union and
 International Monetary Fund , and Kenny’s government wants a
reduction on the rate on its loans, which he has described as
“too severe.”  “We’re not looking for more money from Europe, we’re
looking for greater flexibility,” Kenny said, referring to the
rate on the bailout and to medium-term financing for lenders
from the  European Central Bank . He also said that an increase in
Ireland’s 12.5 percent corporation-tax rate to appease fellow EU
leaders is “not up for negotiation.”  Ireland’s government last month pledged to inject
additional capital of as much as 24 billion euros ($34 billion)
into lenders after mounting losses forced the country ask for
external help in November. Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said
on April 8 it’s important to reach an agreement on lower bailout
rates before the country taps “serious tranches of money.”  Bonds Fall  Kenny said that Anglo Irish Bank Corp., which is being
wound down, may not need further capital. Ireland has injected
29.3 billion euros into the nationalized lender over the past
two years. He also said its senior bondholders may be treated
differently than those at  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and Bank of
Ireland Plc, which the government says won’t have losses imposed
on them.  “The indications are that it won’t need extra capital,”
Kenny said, ahead of a planned update in May on the cost of
bailing out Anglo Irish and smaller rival Irish Nationwide
Building Society. “We’ve made it perfectly clear that senior
bondholders in Anglo Irish and INBS” are a “different
category” to those in Ireland’s other banks, he said.  Irish bonds fell today, pushing the yield on the country’s
10-year debt to 9.76 percent at the close of trading in London,
the highest in two weeks. The yield on Greek and Portuguese
bonds of the same maturity rose to euro-era records. European
shares declined, with the Stoxx  Europe  600 Index dropping 1.7
percent.  Kenny said Ireland’s government has “plenty of time”
before interest payments due in October or November “to
demonstrate the seriousness of intent” about tackling the
country’s banking and fiscal problems.  “We believe that growth projections and initiatives that
were taken will lead Ireland to a position where we fix what’s
been broken” and generate economic growth, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Catherwood in London at 
 acatherwood@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  