-- 
Kirk Says Panama Free-Trade Agreement Ready for Congress

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-04-18T20:10:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/kirk-says-panama-free-trade-agreement-ready-for-congress-1-.html
U.S. Trade Representative Ron Kirk
said a free-trade agreement with  Panama  is ready to be
considered by Congress after the nation’s leaders took actions
sought by the Obama administration.  Kirk sent a letter to the Senate Finance and House Ways and
Means committees saying he is ready to begin technical
discussions on legislation for the agreement, according to a
 statement  today. The U.S. and Panama today began exchanging tax
information, a requirement by the U.S. for advancing the trade
deal, the Treasury Department said in a separate statement.  “This is basically the administration saying ‘We have no
more concerns with this agreement, we are ready to go,’” said
Doug Goudie, director of international trade policy at the
 National Association of Manufacturers  in  Washington . “It’s an
optimistic sign.”  Panama’s Congress last week ratified tax changes President
 Barack Obama ’s administration said were necessary before
legislators would consider the trade pact. The  tax treaty  will
let both nations exchange information on bank accounts, a step
sought by lawmakers such as Senator  Carl Levin , a Michigan
Democrat, before taking up the agreement.  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
lists Panama among nations that must share tax data or face
sanctions as the Group of 20 cracks down on banking secrecy.
Tax-information agreements, which let officials request details
about citizens’ bank accounts in another nation, are needed to
ensure that taxpayers have no place to hide their income and
assets, the organization said in November.  Tax Exchange Accord  The U.S. began talks with Panama on a tax-exchange treaty
in 2002. The agreement covers information since Nov. 30, 2007.  A free-trade agreement with  South Korea  is the biggest
prize for U.S. companies among three pending deals, as trade
with that nation topped $87 billion in 2010, compared with $28
billion for  Colombia  and $6.5 billion for Panama, according to
U.S. Census Bureau data. The U.S. completed negotiations on
labor-rights provisions in the Colombia deal this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  