-- 
Korea Lenders Fall as Agencies Send Mixed Signals on ‘Bad Bank’

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-04-18T06:45:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/korea-lenders-fall-as-agencies-send-mixed-signals-on-bad-bank-.html
KB Financial Group Inc. (105560)  and Woori
Finance Holdings Co. led South Korean lenders lower as
regulators sent mixed signals on whether to set up a so-called
bad bank that would purchase soured construction loans.  KB Financial dropped 2.9 percent to 53,500 won, the lowest
closing price since Nov. 24, and Woori Finance lost 2.8 percent
to 13,700 won at the 3 p.m. close in  Seoul . The benchmark Kospi
index slipped 0.1 percent.  A South Korean lenders group and the government’s Financial
Supervisory Service are assessing a plan to form a private bank
that would buy troubled construction loans, said Kim Soo Mi, a
spokeswoman for the FSS. In contrast, the  Financial Services
Commission  denied a report by Internet newspaper MoneyToday that
it is considering setting up such an organization.  “The talks about setting up a private bad bank to bail out
project finance loans are chilling investor sentiment today,”
said Yoo Sang Ho, a banking industry analyst at Korea Investment
& Securities Co. “Eventually, such an entity would increase
banks’ provisions and costs and cut their earnings growth.”  FSC Chairman Kim Seok Dong today met with the heads of the
country’s main financial groups -- KB Financial, Woori, Shinhan
Financial Group Co., Hana Financial Group Inc. and KDB Financial
Group Inc. -- to discuss the deterioration in property loans.
They agreed that the lenders need to support construction firms
facing a temporary funding squeeze, the government regulator
said in an e-mailed statement.  Banking Lobby  A team led by the Korea Federation of Banks is looking into
whether to set up a bad bank, while no conclusion has been made,
FSS spokeswoman Kim said by phone. The FSS is a civilian agency
that monitors financial firms under guidelines set by the FSC.  Shinhan Financial, South Korea’s biggest financial company
by market value, declined 3.2 percent today, and Hana Financial
slid 1 percent.  South Korean savings banks have been vulnerable to the
property slump, having made almost one-fifth of the loans
outstanding to the  construction industry . The FSC on April 15
said that it may order the sale of seven suspended savings banks
if they fail to improve their finances. At least three South
Korean builders including Dongyang Engineering & Construction
Corp. sought court protection this year.  The South Korean financial industry, including commercial
lenders and savings banks, had 66.5 trillion won ($61 billion)
worth of so-called project-finance loans outstanding to
developers and builders at the end of last year, the FSS said
April 15. Savings banks accounted for 18 percent of the total.  “The bad bank may be a temporarily measure,” said Yoo at
Korea Investment. “Only a recovery of the overall real estate
market can solve this bad construction loan problem. Until then,
we have to cast a cautious eye on bank stocks.”  KB Financial’s Kookmin Bank unit,  South Korea ’s largest
lender, and five others set up a private bad bank capable of
acquiring about 5 trillion won of their troubled assets in 2009,
when they were hurt by the global financial crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  