-- 
N.Z. Dollar Falls Most in Four Weeks on Inflation; Aussie Drops Versus Yen

-- B y   R o n   H a r u i
-- 
2011-04-18T15:39:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/n-z-dollar-slides-most-in-four-weeks-after-inflation-report-aussie-falls.html
New Zealand ’s dollar fell the most
in four weeks against its U.S. counterpart after a government
report showed inflation slowed last quarter, a sign the economy
is struggling to recover.  The kiwi weakened versus most of its 16 major peers as
traders cut bets on the amount of interest-rate increases from
the central bank after Prime Minister John Key said domestic
inflation pressures are still weak.  Australia ’s dollar declined
for a third day versus the yen on concern  Greece  will be unable
to avoid a default as the region’s debt crisis worsens, reducing
demand for higher-yielding assets.  “The weak CPI data suggest the central bank may not hike
rates for a while,” said  Yuji Saito , director of the foreign-
exchange department at Credit Agricole Corporate and Investment
Bank in  Tokyo . “This seems to be causing selling of New
Zealand’s dollar.”  New Zealand’s currency declined 1.6 percent to 78.71 U.S.
cents as of 11:37 a.m. in  New York  from 79.95 last week, after
earlier reaching the biggest drop since March 17. The kiwi fell
2.4 percent to 64.87 yen. Australia’s dollar weakened to $1.0493
from $1.0568 April 15, and slipped 1.5 percent to 86.51 yen.  The consumer price index in New Zealand climbed 0.8 percent
in the first quarter from the previous three months, when it
rose 2.3 percent, the government said today in Wellington.  ‘Good Shape’  Prime Minister Key told reporters that inflationary
pressure remained stagnant. Finance Minister Bill English said
last week that inflation won’t be a problem in coming years.  “We’re not greatly concerned about” consumer-price gains,
English said in a Bloomberg Television interview on April 15.
“There will be some pressures there as the economy picks up,
but we’re in pretty good shape on inflation.”  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand will raise its benchmark
rate of 2.5 percent by 53 basis points during the next 12
months, a Credit Suisse Group AG index based on swaps showed.
Traders were predicting 59 basis points of increases on April
15.  Australia’s dollar fell for a third day against the yen on
renewed concern Greece’s fiscal crisis will worsen.  Greek two-year government bond yields surged to 20 percent
for the first time since at least 1998, when Bloomberg began
compiling the data. The cost of insuring Greek government debt
rose to a record today, with the contracts indicating investors
see a greater than 64.5 percent chance the nation will default
within five years.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ron Harui in  Singapore  at 
 rharui@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 