-- 
New Jersey Nets Said to Tell Staff Jobs Are Safe in Event of NBA Lockout

-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/new-jersey-nets-are-said-to-tell-staff-jobs-are-safe-in-case-of-lockout.html
The  New Jersey Nets  won’t furlough
employees if the  National Basketball Association  locks out its
players during the offseason, according to a person familiar
with the team’s plans.  Brett Yormark, the team’s chief executive officer, informed
employees at a meeting yesterday that their jobs and salaries
are safe, said the person, who was granted anonymity because the
NBA prohibits teams from commenting on matters related to
collective bargaining.  Forcing employees to take a temporary unpaid leave of
absence wouldn’t be necessary because there’s enough work for
the staff, the person said. The Nets are preparing to move from
the Prudential Center in Newark,  New Jersey , to a new arena, the
Barclays Center, in the Brooklyn borough of  New York  for the
2012-13 NBA season.  Nets spokesman Barry Baum declined to comment.  The league’s labor contract with its players expires June
30, and Billy Hunter, executive director of the union, said he
expects owners to impose a lockout. National Football League
owners last month locked out their players.  The Nets, who went 24-58 this season and missed the
playoffs for the fourth straight year, were purchased by Russian
billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov  in May.  NBA Commissioner David Stern on April 15 said the league’s
30 teams are projecting a combined loss of about $300 million
this season.  Summer Cuts  The New York Daily News reported last week that the NBA
canceled its annual Las Vegas summer league and summer
internship program because of the labor uncertainty.  While the league won’t have any summer internships, no
decision has been made about summer leagues, Mike Bass, an NBA
spokesman, said in an interview.  Several NFL teams have made cutbacks, though none has
enacted layoffs.  The  New York Jets  are furloughing employees, forcing their
business operations staff to take an unpaid one-week leave every
month until a new collective bargaining agreement is reached.
The  Buffalo Bills  are asking employees to take pay cuts,
according to chief operating officer Russ Brandon.  USA Today reported on April 15 that at least 17 of the 32
NFL teams had avoided pay cuts, furloughs or hiring freezes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .
Scott Soshnick in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 