-- 
Jonathan Poised for Victory Over Buhari in Nigerian Presidential Election

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-18T13:21:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/nigeria-s-jonathan-meets-the-requirements-for-president-elect-after-vote.html
Incumbent Goodluck Jonathan may be
formally declared the winner of  Nigeria ’s presidential election
after winning almost twice as many votes as his closest rival,
while opposition protests spread in six northern cities.  With results for all 36 states released, Jonathan won 22.5
million votes and led in 21 states, compared with 12.2 million
for his closest rival, former military ruler  Muhammadu Buhari ,
who won 12 states, the electoral commission said. The
Washington-based  International Republic Institute  observer group
called the vote “a major step forward in advancing Nigeria’s
democracy.”  Jonathan, 53, has promised to target spending on
infrastructure, including power and railways, in an effort to
boost employment in Africa’s top oil producer where the  United
Nations Development Programme  says more than half of the people
live on less than $1 a day.  “The continuity of having Jonathan as president will be
good for investors,” said Dianna Games, vice president for
Africa at the  Global Pacific & Partners  energy consulting firm
in Johannesburg. “The hope is that Jonathan does pursue reforms
in key areas, especially in the power sector and the  petroleum
industry , which is key for the economy.”  Bonds Rise  Nigeria’s $500 million of Eurobonds due 2021 rose 0.3
percent to 103.0031 cents on the dollar, as of 1:46 p.m. in
 London , the highest level since the debt was issued in January,
sending the yield five basis points lower, to 6.33 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The 202-member Nigerian Stock Exchange All Share Index
gained for the fifth day, the longest winning streak since Jan.
25, adding 1.7 percent to 25,457.58 at 1:49 p.m. in Lagos.  Jonathan, a Christian from the oil-rich Niger River delta
region, swept most of the states in southern Nigeria, while
Buhari, a 68-year-old northern Muslim, won most of his votes in
the north.  Africa ’s most populous country, with more than 140
million people, is roughly split between a north of mostly
Muslims and a largely Christian south.  Jonathan needed to win a quarter of the votes in two-thirds
of the states for an outright victory. The  Independent National
Electoral Commission  is due to make a formal declaration later
today.  Opposition protesters burned down a police station and a
church in the northern town of Kaduna, Shehu Sani, the head of
the  Civil Rights Congress , said today by phone from the city.
“At least six people were shot dead” by troops deployed to
quell the violence, he said.  Violence Spreads  Violence hit the city of Gombe for a second day and spread
to other towns, including Bauchi, Zaria, Azare and Potiskum,
Suleiman Lawal, the police spokesman in the region, said by
phone today from Gombe. Several people were killed in the
violence, including a police officer, he said, without giving
further details.  While there may be possible irregularities in the vote,
including underage voting in the north and allegations of
suspicious turnout figures in the south, “the anomalies are not
sufficient to affect the results,” Clement Nwankwo, executive
director of the  Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre , which is
monitoring the election, said by phone from Abuja yesterday.  ‘Transparent’ Election  “The election overall was transparent and orderly, allowing
Nigerians the opportunity for exercise their vote,” the
International Republican Institute said in its statement today.  Nigeria’s last election, in 2007, was condemned by local
and international observers for being marred by violent
intimidation of opponents, falsification of figures and ballot-
snatching.  Jonathan, the son of a canoe maker, earned a degree in
zoology and was relatively unknown until 1999, when he became
deputy governor of Bayelsa state. He assumed the office of
governor when his boss, Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, was impeached
by the state assembly after being charged in the U.K. with  money
laundering . In 2007, Jonathan was picked as the running mate on
the People’s  Democratic Party  ticket and in May assumed the
presidency when Umaru Yar’Adua died.  Yar’Adua started an amnesty program in the Niger River
delta that calmed militant attacks after they cut 28 percent of
Nigeria’s oil output between 2006 and 2009. The Hague-based
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ; Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ;
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of  San Ramon ,  California ;  Total SA (FP)  of  France ; and
Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state oil company
that pump more than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Oil Industry  Nigeria’s oil and gas industry, which accounts for 80
percent of government revenue, earned $59 billion last year,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  The competition for the spoils of office spurred a violent
electoral campaign, with at least 25 people killed during the
legislative vote, INEC Chairman  Attahiru Jega  said on April 13.  Violence that erupted yesterday in Gombe led to the deaths
of two people and the imposition of a night curfew, police
spokesman Lawal Abdullahi said. One person died and eight were
injured in an explosion at a polling center on election day in
the Kabala district of the northern city of Kaduna, police said.  Authorities in Nigeria’s north have blamed a group known as
Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, for a spate of bomb attacks and killings targeting
government officials and the security forces since last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 