-- 
Nigerian Stocks Rally, Bonds Climb to Record After Elections

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-04-18T16:17:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/nigerian-stocks-rally-dollar-bonds-climb-to-record-level-after-elections.html
Nigerian stocks extended their
longest rally in almost three months and the country’s dollar
bonds climbed to a record after incumbent leader  Goodluck Jonathan  won twice as many votes as his closest rival in
presidential elections.  The 202-member Nigerian Stock Exchange All Share Index
gained for the fifth day, the longest winning streak since Jan.
25, adding 1.1 percent to 25,309.09 by the 2:30 p.m. close in
Lagos, according to an e-mailed statement from the bourse.
Eurobonds of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer due 2021 rose 0.3
percent to 102.938 cents on the dollar, the highest level since
the debt was issued in January, sending the yield three basis
points lower to 6.34 percent. The $500 million of bonds are
 Nigeria ’s only international notes.  “The results this weekend will definitely add confidence
into the markets in general, which will help bring some foreign
flows into the country and increase demand for the sovereign
bond,”  Leon Myburgh , a sub-Saharan Africa strategist at
Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, said by phone today. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if they rallied a bit.”  Jonathan, 53, a Christian from the southern oil-rich Niger
River delta region, garnered 22.5 million votes and won in 21 of
36 states in elections in Africa’s most-populous country, which
is roughly split between a north of mostly Muslims and a largely
Christian south. Jonathan’s closest rival, former military ruler
 Muhammadu Buhari , a 68-year-old northern Muslim, received 12.2
million votes.  “News of a decisive Jonathan victory is likely to see
capital flight reversed over the coming days, with positive
implications for both the bond and equity markets,” CSL
Stockbrokers Ltd. analysts, including London-based Guy Czartoryski, wrote in an e-mailed note to clients today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in London at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  