-- 
Nigerian President Jonathan Extends Election Lead Over Muslim Rival Buhari

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-18T00:16:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/nigeria-s-jonathan-nears-requirement-to-win-presidential-vote.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan , who is leading in the vote count in Nigeria’s
presidential elections, is also close to meeting the
constitutional requirement of winning a quarter of the votes in
two-thirds of 36 states, which would give him victory in
Africa’s top oil-producing nation.  With results for 30 states released, Jonathan’s People’s
 Democratic Party  has won 21, with 19.2 million votes, according
to the Independent National Electoral Commission. His closest
rival,  Muhammadu Buhari  of the Congress for Progressive Change,
has won in eight states, with 9.1 million votes, followed by
Nuhu Ribadu of the Action Congress of Nigeria, who has won in
one state, with a total of 1.9 million votes.  Africa’s most populous country of more than 140 million
people is roughly split between a north of mostly Muslims and a
largely Christian south. The main challengers to Jonathan, who
is a 53-year-old Christian from the oil-rich southern Niger
River delta region, are two northern Muslims: Buhari, a 68-year-
old former military ruler, and Ribadu, 50, a former head of the
anti-graft agency.  Though there may be irregularities in the vote, including
the possibility of underage voting in the north and allegations
of suspicious turnout figures in the south, “the anomalies are
not sufficient to affect the results,” Clement Nwankwo,
executive director of the  Policy and Legal Advocacy Centre ,
which is monitoring the election, said by phone from Abuja
yesterday.  To win the presidency, a candidate has to win a majority of
the total vote, and take 25 percent of the vote in two-thirds of
the states.  Reduced Majority  While Jonathan’s party saw its majority in the Senate and
House of Representatives reduced in last week’s legislative
elections, it still scored well. The PDP took 45 of the 72
Senate seats declared so far and 123 of 234 seats in the lower
chamber, according to the website of the electoral commission.  Fifteen of the Senate’s 109 districts and 48 of the House’s
360 constituencies will hold the vote on April 26 because of
problems with ballot papers, INEC said.  Jonathan has promised to target spending on infrastructure,
including power and railways, in a bid to boost employment in a
country where more than half of the people live on less than $1
a day, according to the  United Nations Development Programme .  Buhari and Ribadu have said that Jonathan has failed to
tackle poverty, corruption and violence.  The son of a canoe-maker, zoology graduate Jonathan was
relatively unknown until 1999 when he became deputy governor of
Bayelsa state. He became governor when his boss, Diepreye
Alamieyeseigha, was impeached by the state assembly after being
charged in the U.K. with  money laundering . In 2007, Jonathan
was picked as the running mate on the PDP ticket and in May
assumed the presidency when Umaru Yar’Adua died.  Delta Amnesty  Yar’Adua started an amnesty program in the Niger River
delta that calmed militant attacks after they cut 28 percent of
Nigeria’s oil output between 2006 and 2009. The Hague-based
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ; Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ;
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon,  California ;  Total SA (FP)  of  France ; and
Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state oil company
that pump more than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Nigeria’s oil and gas industry, which accounts for 80
percent of government revenue, earned $59 billion last year,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  The competition for the spoils of office spurred a violent
electoral campaign with at least 25 people killed during the
legislative vote,  Independent National Electoral Commission 
Chairman  Attahiru Jega  said on April 13.  Night Curfew  Violence that erupted yesterday in the northern city of
Gombe, where supporters for the Congress for Progressive Change
protested against the outcome of the vote count in the area, led
to the deaths of two people and the imposition of a night
curfew, police spokesman Lawal Abdullahi said. One person died
and eight others were injured in an explosion at a polling
center on election day in the Kabala district of the northern
city of Kaduna, police said.  Authorities in  Nigeria ’s north have blamed a group known as
Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from Afghanistan’s Taliban
movement, for a spate of bomb attacks and killings targeting
government officials and the security forces since last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 