-- 
Noma Beats Spanish Challenge for World’s Best Restaurant

-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 
2011-04-19T09:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/noma-beats-competition-for-world-s-best-restaurant-as-el-bulli-rivals-grow.html
Noma, the restaurant in Copenhagen
whose chef Rene Redzepi forages for ingredients, was last night
named the world’s best for the second straight year.  While that’s a triumph for the young Dane who has won the
admiration of his peers around the globe, it’s not a great
surprise: With the imminent closure of Ferran Adria’s El Bulli,
north of  Barcelona , Spain, the field was clear for Redzepi, 33.  What did emerge yesterday was a challenge by other Spanish
establishments for the top spot in the  S. Pellegrino World’s 50
Best Restaurants  awards in London. El Celler de Can Roca, run by
three brothers in Girona, climbed two places to second after
gaining one last year and looks like a contender for the future
best. Mugaritz, in San Sebastian, came third. Osteria
Francescana, in Modena,  Italy , was fourth and  Heston
Blumenthal ’s Fat Duck, in the U.K., dropped to fifth.  The awards started as a feature in Restaurant magazine in
2002 and have grown in prominence. The results were announced at
a reception in  London ’s Guildhall that was attended by chefs and
restaurateurs including  Daniel Boulud , whose New York flagship
Daniel slipped three places to 11th. Best in  North America  was
Alinea,  Chicago , which rose one place to sixth, with Per Se in
10th place.  “The World’s 50 Best is important because it’s a global
tally and there aren’t many of those,” Boulud said yesterday in
an interview at his London venue, Bar Boulud. “People compare
it to the Michelin guide but they are completely different and
we need them both. Also, this event brings together chefs from
around the world. It’s almost creating a new family.”  U.S. Entries  Other U.S. establishments in the list included Le Bernardin
(18th), Eleven Madison Park (which jumped 26 places to 24th) and
Momofuku Ssam Bar (which fell 14 positions to 40th).  Les Creations de Narisawa,  Tokyo , was best in  Asia , jumping
12 places to 12th. The highest climber was Nihonryori  RyuGin , in
Tokyo, which jumped to 20th from 48th. Australasia’s best was
Quay, Sydney, which advanced one position to 26th.  U.K. restaurants included St. John (41st) and Hibiscus
(43rd).  The winners are picked by 837 chefs, food writers and
restaurateurs from around the world. I’m a member of the U.K.
panel and each of us votes confidentially, without meeting -- or
even necessarily knowing the identity of -- the other voters.
The U.K. and Ireland panel is headed by Jay Rayner. Members of
the academy are required to have eaten at the restaurants that
we nominate within the previous 18 months.  French Cuisine  As generally is the case with the awards, which tend to
favor experimentation and creativity over traditional
excellence, French restaurants didn’t fare well. Only Le
Chateaubriand, Paris, made it into the top 10, compared with
three from  Spain  and two from the U.S.  Francophiles may rightly point to the poor showing of
giants of the chef world such as  Alain Ducasse  and  Joel Robuchon . The tiny showing for Asia is also a shortcoming.  The awards are a snapshot of culinary fashions. Some of the
winners -- Adria and Redzepi among them -- are likely to be
remembered as key figures in the history of food. Others may be
resigned to the recycle bin of gastronomy.  Noma -- which stands for “Nordisk Mad,” or Nordic Food --
is housed in a warehouse by the waterside in Copenhagen’s
Christianshavn district. Redzepi travels the region in search of
ingredients and inspiration for his seasonal menu. Noma entered
the awards table at 33 in 2006.  Reindeer Tongue  The lunch menu at Noma is 1,095 kroner ($210) for seven
courses and there is a 12-course menu for 1,395 kroner. It’s
another 1,045 kroner with matching wines. Dishes may include
potatoes and milk skin, lovage and yogurt; beef cheek and pear,
verbena, endive. When I last dined there, the only meat was
reindeer tongue.  The restaurant is usually fully booked months in advance.
Reservations for August will open on May 2 at 10 a.m. and for
September on June 1. If you want to try for a table, two things
to remember are: Lunch is easier than dinner; tables of four or
more are less difficult to get than tables for two.  Redzepi said in an interview with Bloomberg in December
that the day after Noma topped the awards last year, more than
100,000 people tried to book online, enough to fill the
restaurant for more than 14 years.  Adria’s El Bulli, which has been in the top three every
year, will close for good on July 30, when it becomes a culinary
academy. Chef  Thomas Keller ’s French Laundry, which won in 2003
and 2004, dropped out of the top 50, having placed at 32 last
year. Others to go included Die Schwartzwaldstube, Jaan Par
Andre, La Colombe, Mathias Dahlgren, Oaxen Krog, Tetsuya’s and
wd~50.  Another U.K. winner was the Ledbury, Australian chef  Brett Graham ’s venue near  Notting Hill , which was the highest new
entry, taking 34th place. Massimo Bottura of Osteria Francescana
won the Chefs’ Choice Award.  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 