-- 
Nonpayers Complicate Republican Push to Overhaul U.S. Tax Code

-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 
2011-04-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/nonpayers-complicate-republican-effort-at-overhaul-of-u-s-tax-code.html
More than 45 percent of U.S.
households won’t owe federal income taxes for 2010. That stems
from decades of tax cuts and, in the minds of some Republican
lawmakers, it’s also a problem.  Policies designed to ease the tax burden of lower-income
Americans and offer targeted tax incentives have pushed millions
of people off the income tax rolls. That has bolstered an
argument that these households don’t have enough of a stake in
the political system because they don’t pay income taxes.  “As a matter of fairness, wouldn’t it make more sense if
all citizens paid at least something in income taxes?” asked
 Orrin Hatch , the top Republican on the Senate Finance Committee,
at a March 30 hearing. “I am convinced that it would help us in
our fight against excessive federal spending. You get a lot of
takers when you ask people if they want more of something and
you tell them it’s free.”  Requiring everyone to pay some income taxes could shift
more of the burden onto low-income workers at a time when income
and wealth are more concentrated at the top of the economic
scale. It would also come as Democrats are trying to allow
income tax rates for the top two brackets to rise.  “Just as a political matter, it’s really hard to make
somebody who’s paying nothing pay something,” said Bruce Bartlett, an economist who worked for Republican presidents and
who has been critical of recent Republican policies. “It’s
easier to get people who are paying something to pay more.”  Why People Don’t Pay  Lawmakers often cite a 47 percent nonpayer figure from the
nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center  in  Washington , which it calculated
for tax year 2009, said  Roberton Williams , a senior fellow at
the center. The figure declined to 45 percent in 2010, and a
comparable figure for 2011 is not yet available. It’s likely to
be lower, because the $400 per person Making Work Pay income tax
credit from the 2009 stimulus law expired at the end of 2010.  Any attempt to add people to the income tax rolls requires
examining the reasons why some people don’t pay.  Nonpayers typically have low incomes or are retired and
living off their savings. In tax year 2010, a married couple
with two children earning $26,000 would pay no income taxes
because of the standard deduction and personal exemptions.  Beyond that threshold, the earned income tax credit, the
 child tax credit  and other similar provisions can generate tax
refunds for people who pay no income taxes. The introduction of
the 10 percent bottom tax bracket as part of the 2001 income tax
cuts sought by President  George W. Bush  also pushed people
outside the income tax system.  Other Taxes Paid  Focusing on income taxes doesn’t convey the full picture of
the U.S. tax burden. Most low-income individuals who pay no
income tax face federal payroll taxes, along with state and
local sales taxes.  “It’s a fair point if given in context,” said Dan Maffei,
a former congressman from  New York  who is now a distinguished
senior fellow at Third Way, which develops policy ideas for
Democrats. “Frequently, the Republicans don’t put it in any
context, and often they drop the word ‘income’.”  Any effort to increase the pool of filers could fall most
heavily on those at the bottom of the income scale. This is
compounded by efforts to reduce top marginal individual and
corporate rates to 25 percent, as proposed by Representative
 Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, and
Representative  Paul Ryan , chairman of the House Budget panel.  To hit that target, Ryan and Camp would need to eliminate
$2.9 trillion in so-called tax expenditures over the next
decade, according to the Tax Policy Center.  The problem, Williams said, stems from the dual mandate
that Congress has given the IRS. The agency runs a tax
collection system and a benefit distribution system, doling out
incentives for energy, housing, health and income support.  ‘Hybrid System’  “We’re mixing apples and oranges in trying to get the IRS
to run this hybrid system,” Williams said.  Pulling all those functions out of the  tax code  and turning
them into spending programs would make it easier to create a tax
code that limits nonpayers to those with very low incomes.  The other approach to increasing the number of federal
taxpayers, Bartlett said, would be to impose a federal
 consumption tax , such as a value-added tax. That would be
regressive, too, because low-income individuals tend to spend a
greater share of their income than others.  “The more practical problem is simply that we need
additional revenue to reduce the deficit,” Bartlett said.
“It’s impractical to think we’re going to get that simply by
soaking the rich.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  