-- 
Norwich and Peterborough to Pay $84 Million Over Keydata Sales

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-18T10:43:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/norwich-and-peterborough-to-pay-84-million-over-keydata-sales.html
Norwich and Peterborough Building
Society was fined 1.4 million pounds ($2.3 million) for failing
to advise customers about the risks of investing in Keydata
Investment Services Ltd. structured products.  Norwich and Peterborough, a British customer-owned lender,
also agreed to pay 50 million pounds to compensate customers for
losses, the U.K. Financial Services Authority said in  a
statement  today. The lender didn’t give 3,200 customers suitable
advice over a three-year period about the structured investment
products issued by Keydata, which was forced into insolvency in
2009.  The building society “has been deeply concerned for those
customers who bought these products and who lost out following
Keydata’s administration in 2009,” Norwich and Peterborough
Chairman Gordon Horsfield said in a statement. “We are very
sorry for the hardship and anxiety that they have suffered.”  The building society, which last month said it’s in talks
to merge with the Yorkshire Building Society, posted a full-year
loss last month after taking into account the compensation for
customers who invested in Keydata. The loss was 48.9 million
pounds in 2010 compared with a 900,000 pound profit in 2009.  Keydata had 2.8 billion pounds of assets under management
when the FSA forced it into insolvency. The FSA and the U.K.’s
Serious Fraud Office, the agency that prosecutes complex crime
and corruption, have been investigating the firm’s collapse.  Norwich and Peterborough cooperated with the FSA and
settled early, the regulator said.  “N&P failed in its basic duty to provide suitable advice
to its customers, despite an internal compliance report pointing
out that there were problems as early as 2007,” Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s acting director for enforcement. “Firms
cannot treat customers fairly unless they pay attention to their
financial circumstances and attitude to risk when they make
recommendations.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 