-- 
Notre Dame Cites Staff Mistakes in Death of Student From Lift's Collapse

-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 
2011-04-18T18:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/notre-dame-cites-staff-mistakes-in-death-of-student-from-lift-s-collapse.html
Outdated weather information
received by  University of Notre Dame  staff contributed to the
fatal fall of a 20-year-old student while filming football
practice in high winds, the school said in a report released
today.  The school’s investigation of Declan Sullivan’s death in
October concluded that staff members unknowingly used old data
when they assessed the weather before practice and lacked the
equipment to receive updated information. The staff acted within
the school’s rules and no individuals were disciplined,
according to the report.  “Those protocols and procedures were not adequate,”
university President  John Jenkins  said today at a press
conference. “Many people contributed to that, within the
athletic department and outside the athletic department.”  Other factors contributing to Sullivan’s death included the
unique characteristics of the hydraulic scissor lift he was on
and its height during the windstorm, the report said.  Sullivan died on Oct. 27, when the 40-foot lift used to
videotape football practices collapsed after a wind gust of 53
miles per hour. Student videographers were instructed to raise
the lift only as high as they felt comfortable. Had the lift
been 10 feet lower, it wouldn’t have collapsed, the report said.  The Indiana  Department of Labor  fined the South Bend-based
university $77,500 last month for negligence in Sullivan’s
death. The citation, which contends that the university
“knowingly exposed its employees to unsafe conditions,” is the
most serious safety violation allowed under Indiana law.  State Fines  The school was also fined for five serious safety
violations, including failure to properly train student
employees to use the lift and failure to give the lift annual,
monthly or weekly inspection for more than a year.  The university’s report concluded that while the lift was
overdue for inspection and Sullivan never received formal
aerial-lift training, neither factor contributed to the
accident.  Notre Dame  is in communication with the Department of
Labor over discrepancies in the two reports, Jenkins said.  Notre Dame policy bans the use of hydraulic lifts when
winds exceeds 35 mph, and before practice the staff’s weather
report showed wind speeds in the mid-20s with gusts below the
35-mph limit, John Affleck-Graves, the university’s executive
vice president and head of the investigation, said in the press
conference.  The university staff checked wind levels eight times during
the day, per university rules. The weather was last checked
online at 2:46 p.m. before practice, eight minutes before the
website updated with information of the heightened wind
projections that exceeded the school’s threshold.  ‘Grounded’  “Unbeknownst to our staff these weather websites only
update their information once every hour, at six minutes to the
hour,” Affleck-Graves said. “Had our staff been aware of this
data, they would likely have grounded the lifts.”  The university staff lacked the equipment on the field to
monitor wind speeds at real time during practice and did not
assign anyone to keep an eye on the weather as practice
proceeded, the report said. Affleck-Graves said the absence of
measuring equipment on the field and failure to assign
monitoring responsibility was a “primary weakness in the
university’s procedures.”  The lift that fell was in good shape and didn’t have a
mechanical failure, according to the report. Though it was
overdue for inspection, its condition and upkeep weren’t factors
in Sullivan’s death, the report concluded. Two heavier lifts at
the field during practice stayed upright due to their weight and
how it was distributed.  Full Height  Sullivan’s lift was at its full 40-foot height when it
fell. Had the lift been at 30 feet, it would not have toppled in
a gust of 53 miles per hour, according to the report. Affleck-
Graves said any student taping practice was told he or she could
lower the lift if concerned about its safety.  “All videographers interviewed confirmed they knew they
could take any action in the interest of their own safety,
including lowering the lifts at any time,” Affleck-Graves said.  Jenkins said Notre Dame “did not find any individual who
disregarded safety or was indifferent to safety.”  The university has implemented new rules, including a 28-
mph wind limit to operate any hydraulic lifts, providing staff
real-time weather information, strengthening safety in the
athletic department and updating hydraulic lift inspection and
training programs, Affleck-Graves said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net . 