-- 
Novo Nordisk Bleeding Drug May Harm Hospital Trauma Patients, Study Says

-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 
2011-04-19T16:12:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/novo-nordisk-bleeding-drug-may-harm-hospital-trauma-patients-study-says.html
(Corrects drug revenue amount in fourth paragraph.)  An anti-bleeding drug made by Novo
Nordisk A/S for use in hemophiliacs doesn’t help and in some
cases harms trauma and surgery patients treated with it,
according to two studies in the  Annals of Internal Medicine .  Use of the drug, known as recombinant Coagulation Factor
VIIa, or NovoSeven, increased 140-fold in hospitals from 2000 to
2008, as physicians prescribed it for off-label, or unapproved,
conditions such as surgical bleeding, trauma and hemorrhages,
researchers said today. The patients who make up that surge in
use aren’t more likely to survive because of the drug and some
are injured or killed when the treatment causes unintended
clotting that blocks blood flow, according to the studies.  “In situations of trauma, sometimes you try things when
the person’s in extreme situations,” Leigh Vinocur, a
spokeswoman for the American College of Emergency Physicians and
a faculty member at the  University of Maryland  School of
Medicine in Baltimore, said today in a telephone interview.
“You can stop the bleeding, but if you follow these people and
see that there’s no increased survival, it’s not worth doing.”  NovoSeven generated $1.43 billion in revenue last year for
Bagsvaerd, Denmark-based Novo Nordisk, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The drug is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration for patients who, because of their hemophilia,
can’t stop bleeding. In U.S. hospitals, 97 percent of Factor
VIIa’s use is for other purposes, according to today’s study.
None of those applications made patients any less likely to die
than those who didn’t get the drug, researchers said.  Overall Analysis  The research published today looked at treatment records in
615 U.S. hospitals from 2000 to 2008 and examined 64 studies of
NovoSeven to assess outcomes and side effects.  Veronica Yank  and
 Aaron Logan  of Stanford University School of Medicine near  Palo
Alto ,  California , led the analysis.  Along with being ineffective in those patients, the drug
also costs $10,000 per dose, said the study. In an editorial
accompanying the studies, Jerry Avorn, a physician at  Harvard
Medical School  in  Boston , said investigators should look into
whether Novo made any effort to market the drug for the
unapproved uses.  Ambre Morley, a spokeswoman for Novo based in Princeton,
 New Jersey , said the company doesn’t market the drug for any
unapproved uses. She said NovoSeven was used mostly on an
outpatient basis by people with hemophilia.  “We are concerned that the papers do not put the issue
into context and potentially do a disservice to the hemophilia
community,” Morley said in an e-mailed statement.  Avorn, in his editorial, called the analysis an important
step in  patient safety  and called for greater scrutiny of off-
label uses of drugs.  “Allowing physician autonomy to choose medications is
appealing, but not when it results in unhelpful, dangerous, and
costly decisions,” Avorn said in the editorial.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ;
Reg Gale in New York at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  