-- 
President Obama Says U.S. Needs to Live Within Its Means

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n
-- 
2011-04-19T01:15:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/obama-says-u-s-needs-to-live-within-its-means-cut-health-costs.html
President  Barack Obama  said the
U.S. needs to live within its means as his administration
prepares to begin discussions with members of Congress on
reducing the federal  budget deficit .  “We’ve got to make sure we’re living within our means,
both medium-term and long-term,” Obama said in an interview
with a Raleigh,  North Carolina , television station. “We’re also
going to have to make sure we continue to drive down health-care
costs.”  Obama proposed last week to cut $4 trillion in cumulative
deficits within 12 years through a combination of spending
reductions and tax increases.  The administration is resisting Republican calls for
swifter cuts, which Obama called a “contrasting vision” with
what he has proposed.  Vice President  Joe Biden  will host members of Congress at a
May 5 meeting on deficit reduction. Obama named Biden to lead
the efforts at reaching a long-term solution to the budget
deficit, which is estimated to top $1.6 trillion this year.  In his interview with the Raleigh station, Obama also
criticized mortgage brokers and credit-card companies that have
preyed on members of the armed forces with complicated or unfair
financial products.  “A lot of those folks have taken advantage of military
families,” he said. “It’s fundamentally unpatriotic.”  Obama also was interviewed today by television stations in
 Dallas , Indianapolis and Denver.  In his interview with the Denver station, Obama said U.S.
job growth has been “uneven” around the country, even as the
creation of almost 2 million new jobs has helped lower the
 unemployment rate  to 8.8 percent last month.  “We’ve actually seen the largest drop in unemployment over
the last several months since 1982,” Obama said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  