-- 
Obama Might Trade Parties With Paul Ryan: Laurence Kotlikoff

-- B y   L a u r e n c e   K o t l i k o f f
-- 
2011-04-18T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/obama-might-trade-parties-with-paul-ryan-commentary-by-laurence-kotlikoff.html
We all know that Democrats want to
spend more on people and Republicans want to tax people less.
But giving someone an extra dollar is no different than taking a
dollar less from that person; raising spending is the same as
cutting taxes, and cutting taxes is the same as raising
spending.  Gee, maybe Democrats are closet Republicans, and
Republicans are closet Democrats.  Of course some spending isn’t on people. It’s on tanks and
bureaucrats. But the Democrats aren’t bigger discretionary
spenders than Republicans.  Bill Clinton , for example, cut
discretionary spending from 8 percent to 6 percent of gross
domestic product.  George W. Bush  raised it back to 8 percent.
Since 1971, discretionary spending averaged 8 percent under
Democratic administrations and 9 percent under Republican
administrations.  So when it comes to discretionary spending, Republicans are
Democrats and Democrats are Republicans.  This problem is on full display in the latest contretemps
between “Democrat” President  Barack Obama  and “Republican”
House Budget Chairman Paul Ryan. The president has characterized
Ryan’s tax plan to cut top personal and corporate income tax
rates from 35 to 25 percent as horribly regressive. But if you
look closely, it may be highly progressive.  Progressive Taxation  Progessivity depends on average, not  marginal taxes . Take
TwoGuys, a country comprising Joe Rich and Harry Poor. Joe makes
$5 million a year and pays $2 million in taxes. Harry makes
$50,000 and pays $5,000 in taxes. Joe’s average  tax rate  is 40
percent; Harry’s is 10 percent. This outcome is progressive --
average tax rates rise with income. But, I forgot to mention, in
TwoGuys, people earning more than $3.5 million face no extra
tax; that is, the top rate is zero.  Conclusion: you can simultaneously lower the top rate and
make the system more progressive.  Ryan is proposing dramatically broadening the tax base by
curtailing or eliminating tax loopholes, such as the home
mortgage-interest deduction. This and other breaks 
disproportionately favor the rich, saving millionaires $75,000 each
on average. And Ryan’s base-broadening may include taxing  capital
gains  and dividends at ordinary rates. In this case, the rich will
pay a 25 percent, not 15 percent, tax on this income, and see both
their marginal and average tax rates rise.  Next, consider cutting the  corporate tax rate , which will
lead to new investment, jobs, and higher wages. This isn’t a
trickle-down fantasy. Just look at Ireland’s amazing growth
after cutting its corporate rate.  Tax Avoidance  Unlike our personal income tax, the rich can avoid our
corporate tax by investing abroad. With a higher corporate tax,
capital leaves and wages (the cost of labor) fall until capital
is again indifferent between staying and going. With a lower
corporate tax, the opposite occurs.  Raise the corporate tax and take-home wages fall; lower it
and take-home wages rise. Sounds like the corporate tax hits
workers like a  payroll tax .  That’s precisely what most public-finance economists
believe. Hence, Ryan’s proposed cut in the corporate tax rate
would, effectively, replace Obama’s temporary payroll tax cut
with a permanent one -- and a roughly six times larger one at
that. Haven’t the president’s economists told him this?  The president has also vilified Ryan’s Medicare voucher
plan, which moves  Uncle Sam  from paying the fees for whatever
services the health-care sector sends him to putting health care
on a fixed budget. Absent such a budget, our nation will go
broke, as the president himself acknowledges.  Never Worked  The president says he can limit Medicare’s fee-for-service
spending through other, mainly unspecified means. But we’ve
tried all types of alternatives for decades and nothing’s
worked. As a result, Medicare, not  Paul Ryan , is killing
Medicare. As the health-care sector orders up ever-more services
for the government to pay, government will be forced to cut its
fees to the point that doctors will no longer cover Medicare
participants.  Finally, think about Ryan’s Medicare vouchers. They are
individually risk-adjusted and the poor, who are in worse shape
than the rich, will get bigger vouchers. Those who will have to
pay more out of pocket will be the rich.  Ryan’s voucher plan may be the most progressive reform
proposed in recent memory. But the president dismissed it out of
hand, saying, “I will not allow Medicare to become a voucher
program that leaves seniors at the mercy of the  insurance
industry , with a shrinking budget to pay for rising costs.”  Vouchers for All  To read this, you’d think Obama wouldn’t countenance
vouchers for anyone. But Obama’s health plan, which covers the
uninsured, provides the same vouchers that Ryan is advocating.
So the president is saying vouchers are OK for uninsured
workers, but not the elderly? And he’s saying leaving such
workers at the mercy of the insurance industry is OK? He can’t
have it both ways. Either vouchers and regulated insurance
companies are OK or they aren’t.  Both are OK. As I’ve said in my last two columns, we need a
single voucher system covering everyone. If Obama and Ryan sat
down and spoke in French, they’d likely agree to that, as well
as find common ground on taxes and discretionary spending cuts.
After which, they might switch parties.  ( Laurence Kotlikoff  is professor of economics at  Boston
University , president of Economic Security Planning Inc. and
author of “ Jimmy Stewart  Is Dead.” The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writers of this column:
Laurence Kotlikoff at  kotlikoff@bu.edu ;  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  