-- 
OGX Oil Resources Up 59% as Billionaire Batista Expands Search

-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 
2011-04-18T03:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/ogx-oil-resources-up-59-as-billionaire-batista-expands-search.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes
SA said its total oil resources surged 59 percent as the company
controlled by billionaire  Eike Batista  expanded its search for
crude off the coast of Brazil.  Prospective and contingent resources, as estimated by
auditing firm DeGolyer & MacNaughton, rose to 10.8 billion
barrels of oil equivalent, the second-most for a Brazil-based
company, OGX said April 15 in a statement distributed in Rio de
Janeiro. That compares with 6.8 billion barrels estimated in a
2009 study.  Rio de Janeiro-based OGX, which has no output or proved oil
reserves, plans to start output in the third quarter from the
offshore Campos Basin. OGX has had a success rate of more than
90 percent at its wells since it began exploring in Brazil,
Production Manager Jose Brito de Oliveira said on April 13.  “The report is good news,” Rogerio Freitas, who manages
$50 million at Teorica Investimentos, said in an April 15
telephone interview from Rio de Janeiro. Contingent resources
climbed, “confirming the potential of the company,” he said.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA,  Brazil ’s state-run oil producer,
has about 15 billion barrels of proved reserves, the nation’s
largest.  OGX’s contingent resources surged to 3 billion barrels,
while prospective resources fell 3 percent to 6.5 billion
barrels, OGX said. Contingent resources are defined as
potentially recoverable and less certain than proved reserves,
and prospective resources are estimated volumes associated with
undiscovered accumulations, according to the  Petroleum Resources
Management System .  ‘delineation’ resources  The report also included “delineation” resources of 1.3
billion barrels that are close to being declared contingent, OGX
said.  “We had a lot of success with our exploration campaign,”
OGX Chief Executive Officer Paulo Mendonca said at a press
conference to release the report.  Mendonca previously said he expected a “significant” rise
in the company’s potential oil and gas resources after making
new discoveries in Brazil. Contingent resources increased after
the company drilled additional exploration wells since 2009 on
land and off the coast of Brazil.  The company also said it has an estimated 56 trillion cubic
feet of natural-gas reserves in Brazil’s Parnaiba basin that
aren’t included in the DeGolyer & MacNaughton estimate. That’s
up from a 2009 forecast of 15 trillion cubic feet, Mendonca
said.  Shares rose 60 centavos, or 3.2 percent, to close at 19.65
reais in Sao Paulo trading on April 15. Before today, the stock
had gained 9.5 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a
5.5 percent rise for Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 Pmillard1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jessica Brice at 
 jbrice1@bloomberg.net  