-- 
Oil Producers Helped Stem Rising Prices, Saudi’s al-Naimi Says

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-04-18T12:30:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/oil-producers-helped-stem-rising-prices-saudi-s-al-naimi-says.html
Oil producers have helped stem
rising crude prices, Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi
said. He was speaking at the Fourth Asian Ministerial
Roundtable.  On the global economy:  “The global economy is in better shape than when we met
two years ago, with international trade starting to recover,
financial institutions again supplying needed capital, investors
reentering the marketplace, and  consumer confidence  rising. Yet
the recovery remains patchy. In many countries, unemployment
remains at unacceptable levels, and some nations are struggling
with outsize national deficits and concerns over the health of
their financial systems. Some commentators have also been
ringing alarm bells over the impact of the recent rise in  oil
prices , though swift and decisive actions by oil producing
countries have helped to stem that trend.”  On Saudi Arabia’s oil capacity:  “Certainly Saudi Arabia’s position in the world oil market
is based on its commitment to maintaining spare capacity for the
sake of price and market stability. The kingdom’s policy in this
regard is clear and has been consistent: moderation in all
decisions that concern the global petroleum market. As stewards
of the world’s largest reserves of low cost oil and its largest
producer and exporter of petroleum liquids,  Saudi Arabia ’s
financial and political stability has enabled the kingdom to
install and maintain the capacity to produce 12.5 million
barrels of crude oil per day. This provides a cushion of roughly
3.5 million barrels per day over and above our current
production levels, which are adjusted according to worldwide
market conditions.”  On relations with  Asia :  “Roughly two-thirds of the kingdom’s crude oil exports now
go to Asia, and we are the largest single supplier to major
markets like  China ,  Japan , Korea,  India  and Taiwan.”  Oil demand outlook:  “For the Asia-Pacific region as a whole, petroleum demand
will increase in the coming years and decades, as a result of
both demographic growth and rising living standards in
developing economies. In fact, emerging Asian markets and the
region’s oil and gas producers themselves will be the main
drivers of this increase in petroleum consumption, while oil
demand in developed nations will remain more or less flat.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  