-- 
Oil Declines in New York After Saudi Arabia Says Market Is `Oversupplied'

-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-04-18T12:59:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/oil-declines-in-new-york-after-saudi-arabia-says-market-is-oversupplied-.html
Oil declined for the first time in
four days in New York after  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest
exporter, said the global market has adequate crude supplies.  Futures slipped as much as 1.7 percent after Saudi Arabia’s
Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said yesterday the “market is
oversupplied.” Crude fell 2.8 percent last week on speculation
price gains spurred by conflicts in the Middle East will curb
economic expansion. The world economy is being hurt by “very
high”  oil prices , said  Nobuo Tanaka , the  International Energy
Agency ’s executive director.  “The price recovery may have been delayed by al-Naimi’s
comments, but I think the general trend is for the market to
move higher,” said  Christopher Bellew , senior broker at Bache
Commodities Ltd. in London. “Investors are cautiously returning
as it becomes apparent that Libyan crude may be unavailable for
some time, and as unrest continues in other countries.”  Crude oil for May delivery slid as much as $1.88 to $107.78
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York  Mercantile
Exchange. The contract was at $108.12 at 1:57 p.m. London time.
The more actively traded June future decreased $1.44, or 1.3
percent, to $108.78.  Brent crude oil for June settlement dropped $1.46, or 1.2
percent, to $121.99 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. Front-month Brent futures fell 2.5 percent last
week to settle at $123.45. Brent’s premium over New York futures
grew for the first time in three days, to $13.25 a barrel.  Saudi Supplies  Saudi Arabia, the biggest oil exporter, has said it will
make up for any crude production lost as a result of conflict in
Libya, which erupted in mid-February. Saudi Arabia sold 2
million barrels of new blends of oil developed to help replace
Libyan barrels withheld from the market, “and there is plenty
left,” al-Naimi said as he arrived in Kuwait for a conference.  Unrest in  Libya , Africa’s third-biggest producer, is the
bloodiest in a wave of uprisings that has toppled leaders in
Egypt and Tunisia and spread to Algeria, Bahrain, Iran, Oman,
Syria and Yemen. Libya’s crude production, which averaged 1.6
million barrels a day last year, shrank to 390,000 barrels a day
in March, according to a Bloomberg News survey of producers,
analysts and companies.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad told his newly appointed
cabinet that plans to lift the country’s 48-year-old state of
emergency must be completed next week while in Libya rebels said
they expected to receive heavy weapons in their battle to
overthrow  Muammar Qaddafi .  Global crude supplies are shrinking while prices are rising
because of many factors including “uncertainties,” the IEA’s
Tanaka said in  Kuwait  yesterday.  Nigeria Elections  Japan ’s demand for crude oil will decrease as economic
growth slows after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami, the
nation’s Vice Minister of International Affairs Hideichi Okada
said in Kuwait.  In Nigeria, Africa’s biggest crude producer, Goodluck
Jonathan is close to re-election as president. Jonathan, who
comes from the oil-rich, southern Niger Delta region, extended
his lead in counting and is close to meeting the constitutional
requirement to win a quarter of votes in two-thirds of states.  Jonathan had 19.2 million votes and 21 states compared with
9.1 million votes and eight states for his closest rival,
 Muhammadu Buhari , from the north, according to results released
by the Independent National Electoral Commission. Jonathan’s
ruling People’s Democratic Party won Abuja, the capital. Nuhu
Ribadu of the Action Congress of Nigeria had 1.9 million votes
and one state.  Nigeria pumped 1.9 million barrels a day in
March, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators reduced their
bullish bets on crude oil for the first time in four weeks amid
signs the oil market had risen too fast.  Net-long positions in oil declined by 23,718 futures and
options combined, or 7.8 percent, to 281,579, in the seven days
ended April 12, according to the Commodity Futures Trading
Commission’s weekly Commitments of Traders report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  