-- 
MoneyGram Sued by Shareholder Over Recapitalization Plan

-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 
2011-04-18T19:18:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/moneygram-sued-by-shareholder-over-recapitalization-agreement.html
MoneyGram International Inc. (MGI) , a
money-transfer provider, was sued by a shareholder claiming that
a recapitalization agreement with affiliates of  Thomas H. Lee
Partners LP  and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is “grossly unfair.”  The plan, which would allow controlling investors to cash
out about 29 percent of their $760 million cash investment in
the company’s preferred stock, was challenged by shareholder
Willie R. Pittman in a complaint in Delaware Chancery Court in
Wilmington. Pittman seeks to block the plan.  “The common stockholders will suffer substantial cash
value dilution and voting power dilution through their reduced
continuing interest in a much more highly leveraged company,”
lawyers for Pittman said in the complaint made public today.  MoneyGram said in March that, as part of the plan, Goldman
Sachs would receive $77.5 million in cash and additional
preferred shares that may be equal to a 30 percent equity stake
if converted to common stock.  Thomas H. Lee Partners , a Boston-
based private-equity firm, and its co-investors would get
$140.8 million in cash and own about 55 percent of the common
shares.  A special committee appointed by MoneyGram’s board of
directors failed to act with independence and was guided by
“conflicted and uninformed advisers,” lawyers for Pittman said
in the complaint.  ‘Flawed Valuation’  “That adviser provided no fairness opinion, and its
financial analysis, particularly its flawed valuation of the
preferred stock, was inconsistent with the limited contractual
rights of the preferred stock and contrary to Delaware law,”
according to the complaint.  Lynda Michielutti, a spokeswoman for MoneyGram, didn’t
immediately reply to a phone call and e-mail seeking comment.  Minneapolis-based MoneyGram is the second-largest money-
transfer company after Western Union Co. The company sold
preferred stock to THL and Goldman Sachs in 2008 after reporting
declines in investments linked to the U.S. housing market.  The case is Pittman v. Clark, CA6387,  Delaware  Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Wilmington, Delaware,
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 