-- 
Hong Kong Reviewing IPOs Arranged by Five Global Banks Including JPMorgan

-- B y   D e b r a   M a o
-- 
2011-04-18T08:46:22Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/hong-kong-reviews-bank-arranged-ipos-after-finding-securities-firm-lapses.html
Hong Kong’s central bank is
reviewing initial public offering work done by  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. (JPM) ,  UBS AG (UBSN) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS) 
and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  last year after a similar inquiry into
securities firms by the city’s regulator.  The  Hong Kong Monetary Authority  has completed most of the
examinations and made recommendations to the five banks, it said
in a statement to Bloomberg News.  The HKMA’s review follows inspections by the  Securities and
Futures Commission  of 17 of the 73 securities firms in the city,
the world’s largest market for initial share sales. The SFC’s
study, which didn’t cover these banks, found that some IPO
sponsors made questionable disclosures to the stock exchange,
overly relied on the opinions of third-party experts and didn’t
staff deal teams with enough people.  “There is a tendency for people not to employ the
skepticism that they are really required to bring to the job,”
said Alan Linning, a Hong Kong-based partner at law firm  Sidley
Austin  who was the SFC’s enforcement head between 2001 and 2006.  The city’s bank sponsors, which are regulated by the HKMA,
accounted for 39 percent of total fees earned from helping
prepare listing documents and ensuring rule compliance, and
employ over a third of sponsor staff in  Hong Kong , according to
a survey conducted by the SFC in 2009.  ‘Deficiencies Vary’  “While the HKMA’s findings in the thematic examinations
are largely similar to those identified by the SFC, the nature
and degree of deficiencies vary among individual Bank
Sponsors,” the HKMA said in an April 15 statement.  It said it would “follow up with the Bank Sponsors to
ensure appropriate actions are taken to address our concerns”
and remaining examinations are “targeted to be completed” by
the end of June.  Spokeswoman Rhonda Lam said the HKMA doesn’t discuss
details of its regulatory work.  JP Morgan, which sponsored the IPOs of  Agricultural Bank of
China Ltd. (601288)  and  Mongolian Mining Corp (975)  last year, declined to
comment on the review. Spokeswoman Marie Cheung said the bank’s
conversations with regulators are private.  Chris Cockerill , a spokesman for UBS, the top arranger of
Hong Kong IPOs by value in 2009, declined to comment on the HKMA
review and on the bank’s work as sponsor of Beijing-based China
Forestry Holdings Co.’s 2009 IPO.  Post-Debut Audit  Trading in shares of the private forest operator was
suspended on Jan. 26 and the company announced five days later
that its accountants had found “possible irregularities” in
the first full-year audit since its debut.  Gareth Hewett of HSBC said the bank’s engagements with HKMA
are confidential. Mark Bennewith of Deutsche Bank and Hui Yukmin
of RBS declined to comment.  Companies last year raised a record $57.8 billion through
initial share offerings on the Hong Kong stock exchange. Planned
share sales this quarter by Glencore International AG and Prada
SpA may push the value of offers to over $20 billion, a second-
quarter record according to Bloomberg data.  The SFC, without naming the sponsors or applicants,
identified lapses including the non-disclosure of potentially
illegal financing arrangements between a listing applicant and
its suppliers in its  inspections report  last month. It also said
one sponsor relied on legal advice that failed to address
potentially illegal transactions.  SFC spokesman Jonathan Li declined to say whether the
regulator will take disciplinary action against its licensees
following its inspections.  Hontex, Euro- Asia   In March 2010, the sole sponsor in the listing of Hontex
International Holdings Co., was prohibited from working on
securities listing applications one day before the shares were
suspended from trading, the regulator’s  website shows . The SFC
alleged Hontex disclosed materially false or misleading
information in its prospectus, and its shares remain suspended.  Thomas Leung, Mega Capital (Asia) Ltd.’s complaints
officer, said the restriction wasn’t related to the Hontex
investigation and was imposed because one of the firm’s
registered officers required by the SFC resigned on March 1.  The process of educating sponsors and asking for certain
remedies hasn’t brought about a change of behavior by sponsors,
according to Linning, who headed the SFC’s investigation of ICEA
Capital Ltd. after shares of Euro-Asia Agricultural (Holdings)
Co. collapsed 14 months after the company went public in July
2001.  ICEA, a unit of the Industrial and Commercial Bank of
 China , paid HK$30 million ($3.9 million) as part of a 2005 no-
fault settlement with the SFC for its role as sponsor.  “I would be surprised if SFC were not pursuing some of the
examples described in this report,” Linning said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Debra Mao in Hong Kong at 
 dmao5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  