-- 
Online Poker Player Accounts Frozen as U.S. Indicts Operators

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B e t h   J i n k s
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/online-poker-player-accounts-frozen-amid-fbi-gambling-probe.html
Individual accounts of online poker
players were frozen after the indictment of Web gambling
companies on charges of fraud and money-laundering and of
running illegal casino operations.  About 76 bank accounts in 14 countries have been frozen,
preventing players from accessing balances held by the online
betting companies, said  Kelly Langmesser , a spokeswoman for the
FBI’s  New York  office. Eleven people were charged last week.  U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in Manhattan and Janice
Fedarcyk, the FBI’s assistant director in charge in New York,
announced on April 15 a revised indictment against the founders
of PokerStars, Full Tilt Poker and Absolute Poker.  PokerStars ,
based on the  Isle of Man , Ireland’s  Full Tilt Poker  and  Absolute
Poker  of  Costa Rica  are the leading online poker sites doing
business with U.S. customers, said prosecutors. Five sites
displayed notices yesterday that the FBI had seized the domain
names.  “These funds are currently being reviewed by the U.S. as
part of an ongoing criminal investigation, and we are looking at
the funds and accounts to determine if they are the profits of
an illegal enterprise,” Langmesser said. “The funds won’t be
available until a determination has been made.”  The investigation is focused on “the larger criminal
enterprise of those who operate online  Internet gambling  sites
and the individuals behind these sites,” said Langmesser of the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation .  Prosecutors allege that after the U.S. enacted a law in
2006 barring banks from processing payments to offshore gambling
websites, PokerStars, Full Tilt and Absolute worked around the
ban to continue operating in the U.S.  Circumventing Laws  The poker companies named in the indictment are accused of
using fraudulent means to circumvent federal laws and “trick”
banks into processing payments on their behalf. The government
seeks at least $3 billion in forfeitures and penalties.  The indictment names two principals from each company and
others who allegedly worked with them to illegally process
payments. A total of five domains were seized, according to
Carly Sullivan, a spokeswoman for the U.S. Attorney in
Manhattan. They are: Pokerstars.com, Fulltiltpoker.com,
Absolutepoker.com, Ultimatebet.com and UB.com.  Bradley Franzen, one of 11 people charged last week,
pleaded not guilty today before a U.S. magistrate in New York.
Franzen, 41, of  Illinois  and Costa Rica, is accused of lying to
banks about the nature of the transactions they were processing,
and of creating fake companies and websites to disguise payments
to poker companies.  ‘Mere Customers’  Players who use the sites can’t be prosecuted under federal
law and the U.S. states that have laws against making bets
rarely use them against “mere customers,” said I. Nelson Rose,
an Encino, California-based consultant to governments and
industry on gambling laws.  “I’d say there’s a probably a better chance that they’ll
win the World Series of Poker than that they will be arrested,”
Rose, who doesn’t work for any of the companies named in the
indictment, said today in a phone interview.  Sullivan didn’t immediately return a call regarding Rose’s
comments after regular business hours yesterday.  Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN) , owner of Wynn and Encore casinos in  Las
Vegas  and Macau, announced on March 25 an alliance with
PokerStars, the world’s biggest online poker business, to seek
U.S. legalization of Internet gambling. Wynn terminated the
accord on April 15, said Michael Weaver, the company’s senior
vice president of marketing strategy.  Fertitta Interactive, controlled by the owners of Station
Casinos Inc., had been negotiating an alliance with Full Tilt
Poker, Fertitta Interactive said in response to questions. The
Wall Street Journal reported the talks last month.  ‘Not a Deal’  “The deal between Full Tilt Poker and Fertitta Interactive
was contingent upon pending federal poker legislation, our own
internal due diligence, and gaming license approvals,” Fertitta
Interactive said today in an e-mail. “There is currently not a
deal in place as the exclusive negotiating period has expired.”  Caesars Entertainment Corp., the world’s biggest casino
company, has led industry lobbying to legalize online poker in
the U.S. Gary Thompson, a Caesars spokesman, declined to comment
on the indictments.  Seth Palansky, spokesman for Caesars’  World Series  of Poker
and interactive units, said in an e-mail that the company had
“never offered any real online gaming in the  United States .”  Units of Caesars, formerly Harrah’s, operate real online
gambling in the U.K. with partners who aren’t involved in the
indictment, and recently reached licensing deals in Italy and
 France . The company also operates play-for-fun Internet poker
elsewhere, including the U.S., according to Palansky.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN sports cable channel said it will
remove poker advertising and programming.  “We are aware of the indictment only through what has been
announced publicly,” Bristol, Connecticut-based ESPN said in an
e-mailed statement. “For the immediate future, we are making
efforts to remove related advertising and programming pending
further review.”  The case is U.S. v. Scheinberg, 10-cr-00336, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Jinks in New York at 
 bjinks1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Palazzo at   apalazzo@bloomberg.net  