-- 
OPEC Says No Shortage of Oil, Price Has Premium of $15-$20

-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e   a n d   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 
2011-04-18T10:45:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/opec-says-no-shortage-of-oil-price-has-premium-of-15-20-2-.html
Crude prices currently include a
premium of $15 to $20 a barrel, OPEC’s Secretary General said,
commenting on the commodity’s 19 percent gain this year, driven
by rising unrest in oil-producing nations in the Middle East.  Oil officials from  Kuwait , the  United Arab Emirates ,  Iran 
joined  Saudi Arabia , the world’s biggest crude exporter, in
saying there is no shortage of fuel in the market.  “I can’t say the market is oversupplied, but the market is
adequately supplied and our production in March is almost the
same as our production in December, even though one of our
member countries is out of production,” OPEC’s Abdalla el-Badri
told reporters today in Kuwait. “Yes, the price is a concern.”  Additional shipments to make up for halts in Libyan output
has been met by a lack of buyers, el-Badri said, when asked if
the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries will decide to
raise production when it meets in June.  Crude fell as much as 1.1 percent in  New York  to $108.47 a
barrel today after Saudi Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi said
yesterday that the global “market is oversupplied” with crude.  “The market is well-balanced and there is no shortage of
supply,” Kuwait’s oil minister Sheikh Ahmad al-Sabah said in a
speech. “The shortfall from  Libya  has been largely compensated
as OPEC moved quickly to ensure adequate supplies to the
market.”  ‘Plenty of Supply’  There is “plenty of supply on the market,” U.A.E. Oil
Minister Mohammed al-Hamli said. There is no shortage, Iranian
OPEC Governor Mohammad Ali Khatibi said.  Saudi Arabia, OPEC’s biggest member, has said it would make
up for any production lost as a result of the Libyan conflict,
which erupted in mid-February and cut output to about 300,000
barrels a day, or a sixth of its capacity.  The kingdom pumped 9.02 million barrels of crude a day in
February, up 5.9 percent from the previous month, according to
official data posted yesterday on the government’s Joint
Organization Data Initiative  website . The country cut production
to 8.3 million barrels a day in March, and April output will be
“a little higher,” al-Naimi said.  The increase of 506,000 barrels a day over January raised
Saudi monthly production to its highest level since October
2008, when the country produced 9.52 million barrels a day, the
data showed. The March decline in Saudi output coincided with
closures of refineries for maintenance and the earthquake in
 Japan , the world’s third-largest crude user. The March 11 quake
shuttered 29 percent of the Asian nation’s refinery capacity.  ‘Plenty Left’  Saudi Arabia sold 2 million barrels of new blends of crude
it developed to help replace Libyan barrels withheld from the
market “and there is plenty left,” al-Naimi said.  “I am surprised nobody is buying the new Saudi special
blend,” el-Badri said. “The market doesn’t want to exchange
the Libyan crude. They still wait for the Libyan crude. Maybe it
will come, at one point in time.”  OPEC needs to produce as much as 29.4 million barrels a
day, with or without Libyan production, el-Badri said. Demand
for the group’s crude will rise to 29.8 million barrels a day at
the end of the year, he said.  The group’s total production fell to 29.31 barrels a day in
March from 29.94 million barrels a day the previous month,
according to OPEC’s monthly report published last week.  Oil for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
dropped $1.08 to $108.44 at 11:15 a.m. London time. Futures
reached $112.79 a barrel on April 8, the highest settlement
since Sept. 22, 2008.  The global economy is being hurt by “very high”  oil
prices  and the crude market is getting tighter, The
 International Energy Agency ’s Executive Director  Nobuo Tanaka 
said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Kuwait at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net ;
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  