-- 
Morgan Stanley, BofA Said to Sell Stake in Times Square Tower

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/morgan-stanley-bank-of-america-said-to-sell-stake-in-times-square-tower.html
Morgan Stanley and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  agreed to sell their 49 percent stake in 1633 Broadway, a
48-story tower near  New York ’s Times Square, according to three
people with knowledge of the transaction.  The buyer is Paramount Group Inc., the U.S. real estate
unit of  Germany ’s Otto Group, said the people, who asked not to
be identified because the deal is private. The purchase valued
the  building  at about $2 billion, making it the most expensive
New York commercial property transaction since Google Inc.’s
$1.8 billion acquisition last year of 111 Eighth Ave., according
to the New York  Observer , which reported the sale yesterday.  Paramount, which also holds interests in Deutsche Bank AG’s
North American headquarters tower at 60 Wall St., and the former
Credit Lyonnais Building at 1301 Avenue of the Americas, bought
the remaining stake after exercising a right of first refusal
under its partnership, one of the people said.  Jolanta Bott, a Paramount spokeswoman, declined to comment,
as did Mark Lake, a spokesman for New York-based  Morgan Stanley. (MS) 
Jessica Oppenheim, a Bank of America spokeswoman, didn’t return
calls for comment. The  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank
acquired its interest when it took over Merrill Lynch & Co. in
2009.  Eastdil Secured LLC was the broker on the transaction. Doug Harmon, senior managing director for the New York-based firm,
declined to comment on the deal.  Demand Rising  Investor demand is climbing for large New York office
properties, he said. Five of  Manhattan ’s biggest buildings
either have changed hands or are in final stages of sales or
recapitalizations, he said. Those include the 1.3 million-
square-foot (120,770-square-meter) Chelsea Market building, and
the 2.4 million-square-foot Starrett-Lehigh building.  “There’s plenty of jet fuel igniting the big-deal market
in New York,” Harmon said, adding that the interest is coming
from global investors.  Harmon’s firm also was the broker for the 111 Eighth Ave.
sale to Google. The  Mountain View , California-based company is
the largest tenant in the building, a 2.9 million-square-foot
property in Chelsea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in New York at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  