-- 
Los Angeles Times, New York Times Lead Pulitzer Prizes With a Pair Apiece

-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-18T21:20:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/los-angeles-times-new-york-times-lead-pulitzers-with-two-each.html
The  Los Angeles  Times won Pulitzer
Prizes for exposing corruption in a California city and for
feature photography, sharing the lead in the annual journalism
competition with the New York Times at two awards each.  Tribune Co.’s Los Angeles Times received the public-service
prize for reporting on the outsized pay of officials in the city
of Bell, resulting in arrests. The New York Times, owned by  New
York Times Co. (NYT) , won for international reporting and commentary.
Bloomberg News was a finalist in two categories, public service
and national reporting.  ProPublica , an online, non-profit news organization started
three years ago and led by former Wall Street Journal managing
editor Paul Steiger, won for national reporting, after last year
becoming the first Web-based outlet to get a prize. The 95th
annual Pulitzer Prizes for excellence in reporting and the arts
were announced today by Columbia University’s Graduate School of
Journalism in New York.  The  Chicago Sun-Times  got the local-reporting award for
covering the violence in Chicago neighborhoods. Other winners
included the Wall Street Journal and the Washington Post.  No award was given in the breaking-news reporting category,
with the organizers declining to provide specific reason for the
omission. The last time the Pulitzer committee declined to give
an award was in 2008 for editorial writing.  A committee of editors, publishers, writers and educators
voted on the winners in 21 categories of journalism, letters,
drama and music. Winners in all categories except public service
receive a $10,000 cash award. The public-service prize, awarded
to a news organization, is a gold medal.  Bell Corruption  The Los Angeles Times story on Bell helped bring charges to
town officials over their compensation. City Manager  Robert Rizzo  and two other officials resigned July 22 after the
newspaper reported that they earned a collective $1.6 million
annually. Bell is a town of 38,000 south of Los Angeles in which
almost one in six residents lives below the poverty line.  The newspaper’s Barbara Davidson received the photography
award for her portrayal of the innocent victims of Los Angeles’s
gang violence.  The New York Times received the international-reporting
prize for its coverage of the failures of the Russian justice
system. The newspaper’s David Leonhardt won the commentary award
for discussing economic questions such as the federal-budget
deficit and health-care reform.  Bloomberg News’s Daniel Golden, John Hechinger and John Lauerman were named finalists in the public-service category for
revealing how some for-profit colleges exploit low-income
students. Their colleague David Evans was a finalist in the
national reporting category for a story that showed how life
insurance companies were holding back death benefits owed to
families of military veterans.  The following is a table of 2011 Pulitzer Prize winners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in  New York  at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  