-- 
Low Sunlight, Mononucleosis May Raise Multiple Sclerosis Risk

-- B y   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 
2011-04-18T20:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/low-sunlight-mononucleosis-may-raise-multiple-sclerosis-risk.html
People with low exposure to
sunlight and a common viral disease may be at higher risk of
 multiple sclerosis , a study found.  Scientists trying to understand why more cases of multiple
sclerosis are found in places with less sunlight examined all
admissions to hospitals in England’s  National Health Service ,
the government-run medical system, over seven years.  They found that a combination of infectious mononucleosis,
also known as glandular fever, and exposure to sunlight
accounted for about 72 percent of the geographic distribution of
multiple sclerosis across the U.K., according to a study
published in Neurology, the journal of the  American Academy of
Neurology . Exposure to sunlight alone explained 61 percent of
the distribution, the study said.  Researchers examined almost 57,000 cases of multiple
sclerosis, or MS, and about 15,000 cases of infectious
mononucleosis in  England  over the seven-year period. Infectious
mononucleosis is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus.  The scientists also looked at data compiled by  NASA , the
U.S. space agency, on levels of ultraviolet light. They found
that lower exposure to ultraviolet B light, which causes the
body to make vitamin D, in the spring was “most strongly
associated” with a risk of developing MS.  “It’s possible that vitamin D deficiency may lead to an
abnormal response to the Epstein-Barr virus,” George Ebers, a
physician at the  University of Oxford  and one of the study
researchers, said in a statement. “More research should be done
on whether increasing ultraviolet B exposure or using vitamin D
supplements and possible treatments or vaccines for the  Epstein-
Barr virus  could lead to fewer cases of MS.”  Nerve Attack  Multiple sclerosis causes the immune system to attack the
insulating tissue around nerve fibers, leading to scars and
inflammation. This stops nerve cells from sending signals,
leading to symptoms such as blurred vision and muscle weakness.
MS affects about 2.5 million people worldwide, according to the
 National Multiple Sclerosis Society , a New York-based patient
group. The disease is more common in places farther away from
the equator.  The research was funded by the Multiple Sclerosis Society
of Great Britain and  Northern Ireland , the U.K. Medical Research
Council and the Wellcome Trust.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  