-- 
Lloyd’s of London Names Nelson Chairman to Replace Levene

-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 
2011-04-18T13:04:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/lloyd-s-of-london-names-nelson-chairman-to-replace-levene-1-.html
Lloyd’s of London, the world’s
oldest insurance market, named John Nelson chairman, replacing
Peter Levene, who is stepping down after nine years.  Nelson, chairman of property investment trust  Hammerson
Plc (HMSO) , will take up the position when Levene’s term ends in
October, Lloyd’s said in a statement today. Nelson, 63, will
step down later this year as deputy chairman of Kingfisher Plc,
Europe’s largest home-improvement retailer.  Lloyd’s insurers were hurt last year by earthquakes in
Chile and  New Zealand , flooding in  Australia , as well as the
Deepwater Horizon rig explosion, which caused a spill of crude
oil into the Gulf of Mexico. Full-year profit dropped 44 percent
on catastrophe-related claims, Lloyd’s said last month.  “Events in Japan, New Zealand and Australia remind us of
the vital role Lloyd’s and other insurers play in helping
communities and businesses rebuild after disaster,” Nelson said
in today’s statement.  Nelson worked at Lazard Ltd. for 13 years before becoming
chairman of  Credit Suisse First Boston ’s European arm in 1999.
He retired three years later. He will remain chairman of
Hammerson after taking up the position at Lloyd’s.  Levene, 69, joined Lloyd’s in 2002 when the market was
reeling from record losses after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks
in  New York . He oversaw the creation of a so-called Franchise
Board, which monitors underwriting data on a day-to-day basis
and aims to limit insurers accumulating excessive risk. Last
year, he started NBNK Investments Plc to buy U.K. bank assets.  Nelson will receive an annual salary of 525,000 pounds
($854,000) from Lloyd’s. Levene earned 816,000 pounds as Lloyd’s
chairman in 2009, including a salary of 632,000 pounds,
according to the market’s  annual report .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in  London  at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  