-- 
Pakistan Seeks LNG Imports on ‘Urgent Basis,’ Adviser Says

-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 
2011-04-18T14:08:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/pakistan-seeks-lng-imports-on-urgent-basis-adviser-says-1-.html
Pakistan  will seek imports of
liquefied natural gas on an “urgent basis” as it struggles to
overcome energy shortages that have crippled the economy.  “Pakistan can’t meet energy demands without LNG imports,”
Asim Hussain, the government’s petroleum adviser, said today at
a news conference in Islamabad. “LNG imports are the only
short-term solution for economic survival.”  Power and gas shortages of eight to 16 hours a day have
closed factories and caused violent street protests in Pakistan,
which is facing its worst energy crisis. The country,
traditionally self-sufficient in gas, was scheduled to start LNG
imports in the fourth quarter before the  Supreme Court  canceled
a contract with European companies. The government forecasts the
economy will expand 2.5 percent in the year through June, slower
than the original target of 4.5 percent.  The government-owned gas distribution companies will stop
providing commercial connection for the next six months, said
Hussain, whom Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  appointed
yesterday as his adviser to prepare a short-term plan to reduce
energy shortages.  “We are going for 500 million cubic feet imports in the
first phase,” he said. “We will go to the vendor who can do
this for us in the shortest possible time, whether it’s through
the single boring pipeline or through a floating storage and
regasification unit.”  Rotterdam-based 4Gas BV and  France ’s GDF Suez SA were
awarded a 20-year contract in February last year to supply 3.75
million metric tons of LNG annually. The court ordered a probe
and canceled the contract after the government ignored the
lowest bidder.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  