-- 
Pakistan Aims to Cut Deficit, Create ‘Platform for Growth’

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-18T19:02:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/pakistan-aims-to-cut-deficit-create-platform-for-growth-1-.html
Pakistan  aims to reduce its  budget
deficit  to “around 5 to 5.5 percent” with spending cuts and
tax increases to achieve economic growth of about 6 percent,
Pakistan’s Finance Minister Abdul Hafeez Shaikh said.  “The idea is to ensure the security of public finances, to
maintain the fiscal discipline, to bring down the fiscal
deficit,” Shaikh told an audience at the Woodrow Wilson
International Center for Scholars in Washington today. “We’ve
been working on a growth strategy to try and give jobs to our
young people and to get back on the trajectory of growth
approaching 6 percent or so.”  Exports have shown a “dramatic increase” of 26 percent in
the past nine months, said Shaikh, who is in Washington for
meetings of the  International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank .  A “phenomenal” increase of 46 percent for the year ended
in February probably will raise the value of exports above $24
billion, the highest ever, the minister said. That’s $2 billion
more than he estimated during a Jan. 25 media briefing in
Islamabad.  Pakistan, which received an $11.3 billion loan from the
International Monetary Fund in November 2008, is under pressure
to reduce its deficit even as it copes with more than $10
billion in damage from record flooding in August and a war
against Taliban guerrillas in the northwest.  The country’s $168 billion economy lags behind emerging
markets from neighboring  India  to  China  that are helping lead a
global rebound from the deepest postwar recession.  Economic Growth Slowing  The government had revised its fiscal deficit target for
the year ending June 30 to 5.5 percent of gross domestic product
from 4 percent.  Pakistan aims to reduce the deficit “to around 5 to 5.5
percent and to try to create a platform for growth,” Shaikh
said today.  The country’s economic growth probably will slow to 2.4
percent this year from 4.5 percent in the previous fiscal year
due to the flooding and power shortages that are hampering
industrial expansion, the  Asian Development Bank  said earlier
this month.  Remittances sent by foreign workers are approaching $1
billion a month and probably will exceed $11 billion this year,
Shaikh said today. In January, he projected remittances of $10
billion by June.  Export growth and remittances have contributed to building
the country’s foreign-exchange reserves to $17.5 billion, the
highest level ever, he said.  The government has imposed levies on goods such as tractors
and textiles that had been exempted and enforced taxation on
more individuals to “broaden the income tax net,” Shaikh said.  “You have a new drive, a new initiative,” he said. “The
goal is to raise the abysmally low tax-to-GDP ratio from less
than 10 percent to closer to 14 percent over the next three to
four years,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net . 