-- 
Palestinians to Seek Statehood Approval in September, Abbas Says

-- B y   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-18T17:26:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/palestinians-to-seek-statehood-approval-in-september-abbas-says.html
The Palestinians will seek the
recognition of the  United Nations  for an independent state in
September, Palestinian Authority President Mahmoud Abbas said.  While UN Security Council permission for a Palestinian
state might be blocked by veto-wielding permanent members such
as the U.S., approval by the UN General Assembly would be
legally binding, Abbas said in an interview with Al Arabiya
television today.  Israel  still might try to block recognition by
lobbying the  U.S. Congress , he said.  Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has said Israel will
cooperate with a Palestinian state only if it is established
through direct negotiations with Israel’s government. The
Palestinians had expressed hope that peace negotiations with
Israel would be concluded by September, though with talks
snagged for the past seven months, they are now exploring the
prospect of international recognition for statehood via the UN.  “If the negotiations are halted, where should we go?”
Abbas said. “We are seeking the international community” to
help establish a Palestinian state. The Palestinians won’t agree
to declare an independent state with temporary borders, he said.  Abbas said that  Palestinian Authority  Prime Minister Salam Fayyad will form a new Cabinet within a maximum period of 10
days. The previous government resigned Feb. 14 following anti-
government street protests inspired by pro-democracy
demonstrations across the Middle East.  Hamas Reconciliation  Abbas, whose administration rules in the  West Bank , said he
was ready to travel to the  Gaza Strip  for reconciliation talks
with the Islamic Hamas movement that controls the enclave.  Presidential and legislative elections, which the
Palestinian Authority has vowed to hold by September, can’t be
held without the participation of Hamas, he said. Hamas is
considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the U.S. and the
European Union.  Fayyad started a project in August to strengthen government
institutions such as the security forces and the tax-collection
authority in preparation for statehood, setting a two-year goal
for completion.  The institutions are prepared for statehood and have won a
positive reception from international institutions, including
the  World Bank , Abbas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 