-- 
Pattern, Samsung Buy Wind Farm Under Development in Ontario

-- B y   E h r e n   G o o s s e n s
-- 
2011-04-18T21:08:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/pattern-samsung-buy-wind-farm-under-development-in-ontario.html
Pattern Energy Group LP, a
renewable energy company backed by Riverstone Holdings LLC, and
 Samsung C&T Corp. (000830)  bought land for a 270-megawatt wind farm they
are jointly developing in southern Ontario,  Canada .  Pattern Energy and Samsung acquired the land from  Suncor
Energy Inc. (SU) ’s Fargo Wind Project and a project being developed
by Northland Power Inc., according to a joint statement issued
today. The land will be included in their South Kent Wind Farm
located in Chatham-Kent, Ontario, the companies said.  “Pattern and Samsung will be able to accelerate the
development of these projects by combining them with our nearby
South Kent Wind Farm and its transmission connection,”  Pattern
Energy Chief Executive Officer Mike Garland said in the
statement.  Construction will begin this year and be completed in 2012,
Matt  Dallas , a spokesman for San Francisco-based Pattern Energy,
said today in an e-mail. The price of the land and the cost of
the project aren’t being disclosed, Dallas said.  According to its  website , closely-held Pattern Energy’s
major stakeholder is Riverstone Holdings, a New York-based
private-equity firm.  In addition to the project announced today, Samsung is
closing on “thousands of acres in southwestern Ontario and the
Bruce region” to develop “more than 500 megawatts of wind
power,” Cheol-Woo Lee, senior executive vice president of
Seoul-based Samsung C&T, said in the statement.  The wind farms will use Ontario-made wind turbine
components and towers from a new  Siemens AG (SIE)  wind-turbine blade
factory in Tillsonburg and a new Samsung wind-turbine tower
factory in Windsor, Lee said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ehren Goossens in New York at 
 egoossens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  