-- 
Pentagon Inspector Clears McChrystal in Rolling Stone Case

-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 
2011-04-18T20:22:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/pentagon-inspector-clears-mcchrystal-in-rolling-stone-case.html
The Pentagon’s inspector general
cleared retired Army General Stanley McChrystal and top aides of
violating Defense Department standards in incidents recounted in
a Rolling Stone magazine article that led to his dismissal as
the U.S. and NATO commander in  Afghanistan .  After repeating interviews with six witnesses and
questioning nine others, investigators concluded that there
wasn’t sufficient evidence to indicate that any violations had
occurred, Michael Child, the acting deputy inspector general for
administrative investigations, wrote in a  report  released today.  “Not all of the events at issue occurred as reported in
the article,” Child wrote in the report, dated April 8. “In
some instances, we found no witness who acknowledged making or
hearing the comments as reported. In other instances, we
confirmed that the general substance of an incident at issue
occurred, but not in the exact context described in the
article.”  The findings appear to end the department’s review of
allegations against McChrystal and top aides in the article,
which prompted President  Barack Obama  to accept his resignation
in June and replace him with Army General David Petraeus. The
White House last week named McChrystal to help lead an effort to
educate, employ and mentor military families.  The article cited unnamed McChrystal aides to paint a
portrait of a military command disparaging Obama administration
officials, members of Congress and Afghan President  Hamid Karzai , raising questions about civilian control of the U.S.
military effort.  ‘Poor Judgment’  McChrystal apologized at the time, saying “it was a
mistake reflecting poor judgment and should never have
happened.” A civilian media adviser also submitted his
resignation.  Rolling Stone magazine said it isn’t surprising that
Pentagon investigators didn’t find witnesses who acknowledged
making or hearing the comments cited in the article.  “The report by the Pentagon’s inspector general offers no
credible source -- or indeed, any named source -- contradicting
the facts as reported in our story,” the magazine said in a
 statement  on its website. “Rolling Stone stands by our story,
which is accurate in every detail.”  The Pentagon Inspector General’s office disagreed with
earlier unspecified conclusions by the Army Inspector General,
saying the previous review required “additional investigative
work.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at 
 Msilva34@bloomberg.net . 