-- 
Peru Sol Bonds Rise to Two-Year High on Humala Election Concern

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-18T22:09:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/peru-sol-bonds-rise-to-two-year-high-on-humala-election-concern.html
Peruvian sol bonds fell, pushing up
yields to their highest in more than two years, amid concern
former army officer Ollanta Humala may win a presidential runoff
vote and stunt private investment.  The yield on the nation’s benchmark 7.84 percent sol-
denominated bond due August 2020 rose 7 basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 7.17 percent, according to prices compiled
by Bloomberg. The bond’s price fell 0.46 centimo to 104.64
centimos per sol, the lowest since March 2009.  Investors are concerned support for Humala may grow before
the June 5 vote and that he will win the ballot, curbing demand
for Peruvian assets, said Manuel Aldave, head trader at Banco
Internacional del  Peru . Humala has pledged to renegotiate
contracts with foreign companies and the Andean country’s
trading partners if he is elected.  “Investors don’t want to buy until there is clarity on the
electoral front,” Aldave said. “They’re waiting to see what
the results of the first polls say about the runoff. No one
wants to buy large amounts so yields are rising but volumes are
low.”  Lima-based researcher Ipsos Apoyo is scheduled to publish a
presidential poll April 24. It is likely to show Humala tied
with Congresswoman Keiko Fujimori, Aldave said.  Humala, who leads Peru’s Nationalist Party, came first in
the April 10 first round of elections, winning 32 percent of
ballots.  The sol fell 0.1 percent to 2.8225 per  U.S. dollar  at
today’s close, from 2.8205 yesterday. The currency has fallen
1.9 percent in the past month, the worst performance among 25
emerging market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The central bank didn’t sell dollars in the foreign
exchange market today or sol-indexed certificates of deposit.
The bank sold dollars last week for the first time in more than
two years to stem the sol’s decline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  