-- 
Philadelphia Orchestra, With $116 Million, Files for Bankruptcy

-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 
2011-04-18T08:11:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/philadelphia-orchestra-with-116-million-endowment-files-for-bankruptcy.html
The Philadelphia Orchestra, which
made mushrooms and hippos dance in Walt Disney Co.’s animated
“Fantasia” and premiered works by Stravinsky, Mahler and
Rachmaninoff, filed for  bankruptcy protection  over the weekend.  The Fabulous Philadelphians, as they’re called on better
days, opted for Chapter 11 reorganization under the U.S.
bankruptcy code because otherwise they would’ve run out of cash
by May, Philadelphia Orchestra Association Chairman Richard B. Worley said in court papers. Remaining performances this season
will go on as scheduled, the orchestra said in an e-mailed
statement.  The orchestra had endowments valued at $116 million as of
Feb. 28, said Worley, the managing director of Permit Capital
LLC, a Conshohocken,  Pennsylvania , investment-management firm.
The orchestra isn’t permitted to spend the funds on general
operating expenses because these are restricted to specific
uses, such as musician salaries and education, he said.  The  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  filing in Philadelphia comes as
many classical music and opera companies struggle with sagging
attendance and donations. Earlier this month, musicians at the
 Detroit Symphony Orchestra  wrapped up a six-month strike. The
Baltimore Opera closed in 2009 and  New York  City Opera projects
a deficit for its fourth consecutive season.  “It’s sad,” said  Jeffrey Kallberg , an associate dean and
professor of music history at the  University of Pennsylvania 
who’s lectured before concerts at the Philadelphia Orchestra.
“It stands as a culminating moment” following the orchestra’s
money woes, he said.  Top-Notch  While the 111-year-old symphony orchestra hasn’t been as
successful in attracting young audiences as the Los Angeles
Philharmonic and others, Kallberg regards it as top-notch.  “On good nights, the playing is just splendid,” he said.  Ticket sales, donations and endowment income declined in
recent years, Worley said in the filing, as expenses, including
pension obligations, swelled. The orchestra projected a deficit
this season of $14.5 million, double that of a year ago. Assets
held by the orchestra to pay pensions are an estimated $44.8
million below what’s needed, he said.  The orchestra seeks relief through the  bankruptcy court 
from pension obligations and from its long-term lease with the
 Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts , where it performs, Worley
said in the filing. It also seeks a new agreement with the union
representing its 102 musicians. Their contract expires in
September. An orchestra spokeswoman said Worley wasn’t available
for comment yesterday.  The five musicians on the orchestra board opposed
bankruptcy, said John Koen, a cellist and chairman of the
board’s musicians’ committee.  Endowment Lifeline  The orchestra spent unrestricted endowment funds to plug
deficits in the past, according to court papers. Koen said
lawyers for his union,  Local 77 of the American Federation of
Musicians , advised that the orchestra has leeway to dip into
restricted endowments -- instead of filing for bankruptcy.  He added that management overstated the pension shortfall.  “I think the board made a decision based on faulty
information,” Koen said in an interview.  Musicians’ pension for those at the orchestra for 30 years
is as much as $80,000 annually, the most generous in the U.S.
for an orchestra, he said. He added that bankruptcy creates
uncertainty that leaves the orchestra vulnerable to poaching of
players by other symphonies.  “I have trouble being optimistic about the future of the
organization,” he said.  Companies use Chapter 11 of the  bankruptcy code  to
reorganize, cut debt and continue operating. The orchestra has
no long-term debt, it said in its statement.  The case is In Re The Philadelphia Orchestra Association,
11-13098, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Eastern District of
Pennsylvania (Philadelphia).  To contact the writer on this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 