-- 
Pick n Pay Sees ‘Difficult’ Six Months After Profit Slumps in Second Half

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-04-18T11:19:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/pick-n-pay-says-it-sees-6-more-months-maybe-12-of-difficult-conditions.html
Pick n Pay Stores Ltd. (PIK) , South
 Africa ’s second-biggest grocer, expects another six months of
“difficult” trading conditions after a pay strike and rising
costs cut second-half profit by 29 percent.  Net income fell to 430.6 million rand ($63 million) in the
six months through Feb. 28, compared with 602.4 million rand a
year earlier, according to Bloomberg calculations based on
annual earnings published by the Cape Town-based company today.
Sales rose 5.5 percent to 26.7 billion rand.  “We are probably going to have another difficult period,
certainly in six months, possibly in 12 months,” Chief
Executive Officer Nick Badminton told analysts and reporters in
Johannesburg today. “We are disappointed about these results,
there’s no doubt.”  Pick n Pay workers ended a 13-day strike on Nov. 11 after
the retailer agreed to a three-year deal to raise wages,
boosting costs as food and energy prices climb. Selling prices
didn’t rise as fast as costs, reducing the gross profit margin,
which fell to 17.5 percent in the year through Feb. 28 from 18
percent in the previous year.  “Everything they said was downbeat,” Syd Vianello, a
retail analyst with Nedcor Securities, who has a sell
recommendation on the stock, said in an interview in
Johannesburg. “They are telling us, warning us, that it’s going
to take longer to get it right than what we had hoped.”  The shares dropped 1.99 rand, or 4.5 percent, to 42.21 rand
at 12:42 p.m. in Johannesburg trading. The stock has declined 13
percent this year, giving the retailer a market value of 20.3
billion rand. The benchmark FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index fell
0.8 percent in the period.  Distribution  Pick n Pay has been slower than competitors such as
 Shoprite Holdings Ltd. (SHP)  in centralizing its product distribution.
Its flagship Longmeadow center in Johannesburg is “not yet
optimal” and the company is working to smooth out distribution
at the site before it plans further centers, Badminton said.  Shoprite said on Feb. 22 profit climbed 12 percent to 1.2
billion rand in the six months through December from a year
earlier. The stock has slid 0.6 percent to 99.09 rand this year,
giving the company a market value of 53.8 billion rand.  Pick n Pay is pushing ahead with plans to expand in Africa,
after opening its second store in  Zambia  last month, and raising
500 million rand on March 18 to fund its growth plans. The
retailer plans to open three more stores in Zambia, three in
 Mozambique  and two in Mauritius in 2012. It’s also in talks to
open a store in  Angola  and plans two stores in Malawi next year.  The retailer is in the process of exiting its Franklins
Australia business and sold its Score Supermarkets in  South
Africa , both of which are now reported as discontinued
operations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 smantshantsh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net  