-- 
Pietro Ferrero, Heir to Nutella Fortune, Dies While Cycling

-- B y   M a r c o   B e r t a c c h e ,   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 
2011-04-19T10:54:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/pietro-ferrero-family-heir-ceo-dies-in-south-africa-accident.html
Pietro Ferrero, chief executive
officer of the Ferrero group, maker of Nutella chocolate spread
and Tic Tacs, and heir to  Italy ’s biggest fortune, died of a
suspected heart attack in  South Africa . He was 47.  Ferrero died while bicycling yesterday on a coastal road
near  Cape Town , during a break from a company meeting in South
Africa. A passerby saw him fall off his bicycle, and he was
declared dead of a suspected heart attack shortly after an
ambulance arrived, Western Cape Police spokesman Captain FC van
Wyk said in a telephone interview.  “Italy has lost a businessman who embodied the best
qualities of our industrial history -- the continual search for
excellence, creativity, the determination to compete even in
difficult moments to defend a brand and make it a symbol,”
Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said in an e-mailed statement.  Pietro Ferrero’s death comes as his company considers
joining a takeover battle for  Parmalat SpA (PLT) , Italy’s biggest
dairy company. A government-backed group of Italian investors is
trying to block  France ’s Groupe Lactalis from gaining control of
Parmalat. In 2009, Ferrero mulled and abandoned a takeover offer
for Cadbury Plc, before it was purchased by  Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) 
Pietro Ferrero was joint CEO with his brother Giovanni.  Chocolate Shortage  Ferrero was founded in Alba, Italy, in 1946 when Pietro’s
grandparents transformed a small coffee bar and pastry shop into
a sweets factory. With cocoa expensive as Italy rebuilt from
war, the company experimented with locally abundant nuts as a
substitute ingredient, according to its website. Using a cocoa-
hazelnut base, Ferrero developed Nutella, now the best-selling
sweet spread in the world.  Chairman Michele Ferrero, Pietro’s father, took over the
running of the business and increased the family’s fortune to
$18 billion, earning him the 31st ranking on Forbes’s list of
the world’s billionaires for 2011, the highest position for any
Italian.  “Ferrero is a family-run business that hasn’t opened much
to external managers,” said Daniele Demartis, a  fund manager  at
Rome-based Agora Investments Sgr. “It’s likely that the
succession will be managed internally.”  The company, which introduced Tic Tacs in the U.S. in 1969,
had sales of 6.6 billion euros ($9.4 billion) in the fiscal year
ended Aug. 31, up 4.3 percent. More recent innovations include
 Gran Soleil , a dessert stored at room temperature that turns
into a sorbet when shaken and frozen. Ferrero has more than
21,600 employees and 18 plants around the world.  Recession in western  Europe , which accounted for 74 percent
of sales in 2009, exposed Ferrero’s bias toward core markets,
Euromonitor International wrote in a February study. The company
is now focusing on growth in Asia and  Africa , Euromonitor said.  Pietro Ferrero got a biology degree from the University of
Turin and was a former director of Ifil SpA, a holding company
for another Turin billionaire family, the Fiat SpA-founding
Agnellis. Pietro Ferrero previously served as a director of
Mediobanca SpA, Italy’s biggest publicly traded investment bank.  “This is a grave loss,” said Michele Quintano, an
economics and management professor at Naples’s Parthenope
University. “Giovanni will be able to take over the running of
the company,” though a replacement, ideally internal, will have
to be sought, Quintano said.  Pietro is survived by his wife and three children,
newspaper la Repubblica said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  