-- 
Glapinski of Polish Central Bank Says May Rate Increase Would Be ‘Mistake'

-- B y   D o r o t a   B a r t y z e l
-- 
2011-04-18T13:40:24Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/polish-interest-rate-increase-in-may-would-be-a-mistake-glapinski-says.html
Poland ’s central bank would make
 “a serious mistake” if it raises  interest rates  in May
because the move would needlessly stifle growth with inflation
set to slow later this year, rate setter  Adam Glapinski  said.  “I’ll seek to convince other policy makers not to submit a
rate-increase motion in May and if there is one, I’ll vote
against it,” Glapinski said in a phone interview yesterday.
“If we raise rates in May, we’ll simply be joining the panic
about March inflation, and the Monetary Policy Council can’t
allow itself to be swayed by panic, especially by a senseless
one.”  Poland’s inflation rate rose to the highest in 2 1/2 years
in March, raising economists’ expectations the central bank will
increase its benchmark seven-day  reference rate  next month for a
third time this year. The Warsaw-based Narodowy Bank Polski has
already raised the rate to 4 percent from a record low of 3.5
percent in two steps, mostly recently on April 5.  One-month forward rate agreements fell 2 basis points to
4.50 percent after Glapinski’s comments, extending their drop
for a third day. The contracts are factoring 21 basis points, or
0.21 percentage points, of rate increases in May, calculated as
the premium over the three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate.
That’s down from 31 basis points on April 14.  ‘Big Turnaround’  The zloty fell 0.7 percent to 3.9775 per euro at 3:31
p.m., making it the biggest decliner today among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Glapinski’s comments “can mean quite a big turnaround for
the market, which has been swamped by various comments since the
inflation release last week,” BNP Paribas SA emerging-market
strategists led by Bartosz Pawlowski in  London  wrote in a note
to customers. “Consequently, expect some scaling down of rate
hikes expectations.”  Average corporate wages rose 4 percent on the year in
March, the statistics office said today, down from February’s
4.1 percent pace. The central bank has “lots of time” to make
a decision on rates, Elzbieta Chojna-Duch of the Monetary Policy
Council said today on TVN CNBC, reinforcing Glapinski’s argument
that it would be an error to rush into monetary tightening.  ‘Action Scenario’  “We’re back to the usual set-up, a five-five split in the
Council, which makes the preset scenario of gradual rate hikes
the most likely,”  Mateusz Szczurek , chief economist at ING Bank
Slaski, said today by phone. “The next rate increase may come
in June or July, with a fourth one around October, when the
 European Central Bank  may move.”  Policy makers shouldn’t base decisions on monthly economic
data and the March inflation report released last week can’t
“dictate” a rate increase in May, especially because central-
bank projections had foreseen higher prices, Glapinski said.
Instead, the central bank should stick to this year’s “action
scenario” of two to four quarter-point rate increases, he said.  Poland should strive to “maintain a stable parity” in the
spread between its borrowing costs and those in the euro area,
Glapinski said.  “We anticipated the ECB with the first rate increase, but
there’s no reason to do it again,” he said.  Inflation will probably slow in the second half to less
than 3.5 percent, the upper end of the central bank’s 1
percentage-point tolerance range around its 2.5 percent target,
which argues against lifting borrowing costs as early as next
month, he said.  ‘Can’t Give In’  “This is the first time I’ve spoken so openly, but the
Monetary Policy Council can’t give in to pressure from the
market; nothing has happened to make us change the action
scenario we adopted for this year,” Glapinski said. “That
scenario called for from two to four rate increases, each by a
quarter-point, through the end of the year, and I see no reason
why we should change that.”  Rising inflation expectations, which in March posted the
biggest one-month jump in a decade according to a central bank
survey, are a “purely psychological” reaction of companies and
consumers to higher prices, since the economy is growing too
slowly to generate wage and price pressure, Glapinski said.  The continued absence of a rebound in private investment
suggests economic growth may not reach 4 percent this year, he
said, while workers won’t demand higher wages with the
 unemployment rate  above 13 percent.  “I don’t see any second-round effects or even the
possibility that they could appear,” Glapinski said. “What we
have to keep in mind is that high interest rates could slow the
economy without curbing inflation, which is something we can’t
allow to happen.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dorota Bartyzel in Warsaw at 
 dbartyzel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  