-- 
Pro-Gbagbo Student Group in Ivory Coast Vows to Back Alassane Ouattara

-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-04-18T13:35:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/pro-gbagbo-student-group-in-ivory-coast-vows-to-back-alassane-ouattara.html
A youth group that supported former
Ivory Coast President  Laurent Gbagbo  has called on its members
to lay down their arms and acknowledge  Alassane Ouattara  as the
country’s elected leader.  “Students must return to classrooms and lecture halls,”
Augustin Mian, general secretary of the Federation of Students
and Scholars of Ivory Coast, said in a phone interview today.
“We call on students who still hold weapons to lay them down
without delay and without conditions.”  Fighting broke out in Yopougon, a neighborhood of the
commercial capital, Abidjan, on April 16 between members of the
Republican Forces loyal to Ouattara and pro-Gbagbo youth
militias. Gbagbo was captured April 11 by pro-Ouattara fighters
and French troops.  Buses in Abidjan resumed service today, Mathias Kouaido, a
resident, said by phone. French forces, which seized control of
the country’s main airport in Abidjan during the fighting,
returned it to  Ivory Coast ’s airport authority, Koffi Neba,
acting executive director of the airport, said by phone.  Abidjan’s port also reopened, port official Jean Brindou
said in an interview from the city today. A Danish tanker
carrying butane anchored in the port on April 15, he said.  “We don’t have any customers this morning but the port is
open and protected by French soldiers,” Brindou said.  Offensive  Gbagbo, who had ruled the world’s largest cocoa producer for
a decade, refused to accept the results of the country’s Nov. 28
presidential runoff, which gave victory to Ouattara. After a
three-month stalemate, forces loyal to Ouattara launched an
offensive from northern Ivory Coast that ended with Gbagbo’s
capture.  A group of five French lawyers hired by a daughter of
Gbagbo wrote to Ouattara today requesting an entry permit to
Ivory Coast to visit the jailed former president, Agence France-
Presse reported. Johnny Ahoussou Kouadio, Ouattara’s justice
minister, said yesterday members of Gbagbo’s government may be
prosecuted for embezzlement, weapons purchases and “blood
crimes,” the Paris-based wire  service  said.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Baudelaire Mieu in Lome via Accra at 
 ebowers@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 