-- 
NATO Planes Hit Headquarters of Qaddafi Unit That Led Attacks on Civilians

-- B y   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e   a n d   J e f f r e y   D o n o v a n
-- 
2011-04-19T10:35:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/qaddafi-reaches-deal-allowing-un-aid-to-libya-s-misrate-without-ceasefire.html
NATO warplanes conducted multiple
air strikes on Libyan military targets overnight, including the
headquarters of an elite brigade south of Tripoli that’s been
used to spearhead attacks, the alliance said.  The 32nd brigade, which has been commanded by  Muammar Qaddafi ’s youngest son, Khamis, “has been used to lead and
coordinate military actions against the Libyan civilian
population,” the North Atlantic Treaty Organization said in a
 statement  on its website.  Fighting continued today around the western rebel-
controlled city of Misrata, which has been besieged by Qaddafi
loyalists for almost two months. NATO warplanes bombed a column
of Libyan government forces headed toward the city, the Wall
Street Journal reported, citing eyewitnesses who reported to
rebel commanders. A NATO spokesman in Brussels wouldn’t comment
on the report.  Rebels have struggled for weeks to take and hold cities in
 Libya ’s central coastal areas, the focus of most of the fighting
since the uprising began in February. NATO air strikes have so
far failed to stop government forces from endangering civilians.  The campaign by rebels from the country’s oil-rich east to
topple Qaddafi isn’t making progress and the regime still has
“considerable” weaponry at its disposal, Italian Admiral
Giampaolo di Paola, the chairman of NATO’s Military Committee,
told reporters today in  Rome . “I don’t know if it is a
stalemate; certainly it’s not necessarily moving forward.”  Rebels Sell Oil  The Italian government said it’s helping Libyan rebels sell
oil from the opposition-held parts of the country.  “We are working to allow the sale of oil products” from
rebel areas “through the use of transparent financial
instruments,” Foreign Minister  Franco Frattini  said at a press
conference in Rome after meeting with the head of Libya’s rebel
council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil.  The rebels have agreed to honor existing treaties between
Italy and Libya, Frattini said. Oil exports from Libya, which
has Africa’s biggest oil reserves, dropped by about 1.3 million
barrels a day to a “trickle” of its normal level, the Paris-
based  International Energy Agency  said last month.  Oil fell for a second day as signs of a worsening economic
outlook in the U.S. stoked speculation fuel demand may falter.
Crude oil for May delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
slid was down $1.02, or 1 percent, at $106.10 a barrel.
Yesterday, it declined $2.54 to settle at $107.12, the lowest
since April 13.  NATO Missions  Allied aircraft enforcing the United Nations-mandated no-
fly zone and sanctions on Libya flew 60 missions to identify and
engage possible ground targets on April 17, up from 42 a day
earlier. The coalition destroyed seven ammunition bunkers in
Tripoli and four air-defense radars in Misrata, NATO said
yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Even without the allies putting troops on the ground,
Qaddafi can be forced out, French Defense Minister Gerard Longuet said in an interview yesterday with the newspaper
 Parisien . Qaddafi’s forces number no more than 10,000 men, he
said.  In other news from the region, at least 10 people were
killed as Syrian authorities moved to break up more than 20,000
activists holding a sit-in to demand the release of detainees
and the departure of security forces from Homs, the country’s
third-largest city.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeffrey Donovan  in Rome at 
 jdonovan26@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  