-- 
Rajaratnam, Goldman, Taylor Bean, Wells Fargo in Court News

-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 
2011-04-18T10:24:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/rajaratnam-goldman-taylor-bean-isg-pearce-wells-fargo-in-court-news.html
Federal prosecutors said they were
prepared to summon  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  President Gary Cohn
as a witness to rebut Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj
Rajaratnam ’s defense in his insider-trading trial.  Assistant U.S. Attorney  Reed Brodsky  told U.S. District
Judge Richard Holwell in Manhattan on April 12 that the
government would call Cohn to testify if a defense witness,
former Galleon U.S. President Richard Schutte, was permitted to
tell jurors about comments Cohn made at a meeting with
Rajaratnam on July 31, 2008.  “That’s hearsay” and shouldn’t be allowed as evidence,
Brodsky told the judge, according to a transcript of a
“sidebar” conference that jurors and others in the courtroom
couldn’t hear. If the defense witness testified about Cohn’s
comments, Brodsky said, “We are prepared to call Mr. Cohn, and
we would be allowed to do that as part of our rebuttal case.”  Schutte, who completed his testimony April 14, wasn’t asked
by Rajaratnam’s lawyers about Cohn’s comments at the meeting.
Brodsky told Holwell April 14 that prosecutors intended to
present a rebuttal case. He didn’t mention Cohen or identify
other potential witnesses.  Lucas van Praag, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment.  Ellen Davis , a spokeswoman for U.S. Attorney Preet
Bharara in Manhattan, also declined to comment.  Rajaratnam, 53, has been on trial since March 8 in the
largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
The Sri Lankan-born money manager is accused of gaining $63.8
million from tips leaked by corporate insiders and hedge-fund
traders about a dozen stocks, including Goldman Sachs,  Intel
Corp. (INTC) ,  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and  Akamai Technologies Inc. (AKAM)  He denies
wrongdoing, saying he based his trades on research.  Gregg Jarrell, the top economist for the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission from 1984 to 1987, testified April 15 as
an expert witness for Rajaratnam. Jarrell, who now teaches at
the University of Rochester’s graduate school of business in  New
York , said the tips Rajaratnam allegedly received weren’t
material to Galleon or didn’t comprise inside information.  Jarrell showed jurors charts displaying press articles and
analyst reports about the stocks Rajaratnam is accused of
trading based on inside information.  Jarrell’s testimony will continue today.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  For more about Schutte’s testimony, click here.  Ex- Taylor Bean ’s Farkas Testifies He Didn’t Commit Crimes  Lee Farkas , the former chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker
Mortgage Corp. on trial for allegedly masterminding a 1.9
billion fraud scheme, testified that he didn’t commit any
crimes.  Farkas told jurors April 15 in federal court in Alexandria,
 Virginia , that he was aware his company was having cash
problems, saying it was the nature of the business for a growing
company that was funding hundreds of new mortgages a day. Farkas
said he didn’t have authority to move money between Taylor Bean
accounts at Colonial Bank and said his employees acted on
directions from bank officials on how to deal with overdrafts.  “I didn’t believe at the time I committed any crimes and I
don’t believe now that I committed any crimes,” Farkas said.  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a fraud involving
fake mortgage assets that duped some of the country’s largest
financial institutions, targeted the Troubled Asset Relief
Program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery, Alabama-
based Colonial Bank.  Farkas is accused of 14 counts of conspiracy and wire, bank
and securities fraud. If convicted of the single conspiracy
charge, Farkas faces a prison term of as long as 30 years.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Virginia (Alexandria).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Kluger Granted Bail as Insider-Trading Probe Widens  Matthew Kluger, the lawyer charged with passing merger-and-
acquisition tips stolen from four law firms, was granted bail
April 15 in an insider-trading case that prosecutors now say
generated at least $37 million in profits.  Kluger, 50, appeared in federal court in Newark,  New
Jersey , where he agreed to post a $1 million bond. He must
undergo electronic monitoring and detention at his home in
Oakton, Virginia, where he was arrested April 6. Kluger’s
parents will secure the bond with $500,000 in cash. Kluger’s
father, Richard, is a Pulitzer Prize-winning social historian.  Kluger is charged with passing inside data to a middleman
who gave it to stock trader Garrett D. Bauer in a scheme
spanning 17 years. The middleman, Kenneth T. Robinson, pleaded
guilty April 11 and secretly recorded Kluger and Bauer for the
Federal Bureau of Investigation last month. On April 6,
prosecutors said the illicit profits in the last five years of
the scheme was at least $32 million. April 15, they said it was
at least $37 million.  “The overall number of trades in the scheme, and his
profits from the scheme, continue to rise,” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Judith Germano told U.S. Magistrate Judge Mark Falk.  Prosecutors say he helped Robinson and Bauer use nonpublic
data to trade ahead of at least 15 corporate transactions
involving companies such as Sun Microsystems Inc., 3Com Corp.
and  Acxiom Corp. (ACXM)   Kluger lives with a former partner who is helping him raise
their children, Kluger attorney Alan Zegas told Falk. The judge
said Kluger can leave his house for child care and may undergo
mental-health treatment as needed.  Authorities said Kluger passed tips about deals that he
learned of when he was an associate for New York-based Cravath,
Swaine & Moore LLP from 1994 to 1997 and Skadden, Arps, Slate,
Meagher & Flom LLP, another New York firm, from 1998 to 2001.
Kluger also passed on tips that he stole from Fried Frank Harris
Shriver & Jacobson LLP after he left Skadden Arps, Robinson said
in pleading guilty.  After a hiatus, the scheme resumed in December 2005 and ran
until March of this year, when Kluger worked in the  Washington 
office of Wilson, Sonsini, Goodrich & Rosati PC, authorities
said.  The case is U.S. v. Bauer, 11-mj-3536, U.S. District Court,
District of New Jersey (Newark). The Robinson case is U.S. v.
Kenneth Robinson, U.S. District Court, District of New Jersey
(Newark).  For more, click here.  Mattel Suit Over Alleged MGA Illegal Money Transfers Dismissed  A judge dismissed  Mattel Inc. (MAT) ’s lawsuit alleging that rival
toymaker MGA Entertainment Inc. illegally transferred $400
million to shield it from a possible judgment in a federal court
battle.  California  Superior Court Judge Mel Red Recana in Los
Angeles issued an April 13 order saying he agrees with the judge
overseeing the federal case who previously rejected the claims.  “The state court has ruled on procedural grounds and is
leaving open our right to re-file the case at a later date,”
Mike Zeller, a lawyer for Mattel, said in an e-mailed statement.  Mattel and closely held MGA are awaiting a jury verdict in
a second federal court trial over the origins of MGA’s Bratz
dolls. Mattel, based in El Segundo, California, accuses MGA of
trade-secret theft and copyright infringement, alleging that a
Mattel designer came up with the idea for Bratz and secretly
took it to MGA. MGA, based in Van Nuys, California, also seeks
damages from Mattel for trade-secret theft.  MGA Chief Executive Officer  Isaac Larian  said in an e-
mailed statement said the company will sue Mattel for malicious
prosecution and for its legal fees.  The state court case is Mattel v. MGA, BC444819, Superior
Court of California (Los Angeles County).  Alstom Executives Say Bribery Search Warrants Aren’t Valid  Executives at  Alstom SA (ALO) ’s U.K. unit said investigators
didn’t have enough evidence to search their homes as part of a
probe into claims the company paid 81 million pounds ($132
million) in bribes.  A lawyer for Stephen Burgin, president of the French
transport company’s unit, and Robert Purcell, its finance
director, told a  London  court April 15 that they should be
allowed to argue the U.K.’s Serious Fraud Office didn’t have
enough reason to suspect them.  “There is absolutely no evidence of these men being
involved in any substantial payments,” said  Clare Montgomery ,
their lawyer. The men joined Alstom in 2008 and 2009 “well
after” the allegations took place.  Burgin and Purcell won a partial ruling last year allowing
them to argue police didn’t have good reason to arrest them as
part of a bribery, money laundering and false accounting probe.
They are seeking court approval to also challenge the SFO’s role
in the case. Prosecutors suspect that from 2004 to 2010 Alstom,
through its Alstom Network U.K. Ltd. unit, gave money to
companies that acted as “bogus consultants” to bribe overseas
officials for contracts, according to court papers.  A lawyer for the SFO, James Eadie, said Alstom Network
acted as “a conduit” to pass money through and that the
payments were “ongoing.”  The unit was paying “nine times as much commission in the
Middle East and Africa compared to  Europe , and eight times for
 Asia ,” Eadie said. “That’s as good of an inference as one
could muster.”  Alstom has denied the allegations. No further hearings in
the matter were scheduled.  The cases are Burgin v. Commissioner of Police of the
Metropolis, 10/6227; and Burgin v. Director of the Serious Fraud
Office, 10/5723, High Court of Justice, Administrative Court
(London).  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest new
suits news, click here. For copies of recent civil complaints,
click here.  Verdicts/Settlement  Wells Fargo Can’t Claim $115 Million Tax Deductions  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  won’t be able to claim $115 million in
tax deductions from 2002 based on an appellate court judge’s
ruling that its leases with public transit agencies and
technology companies amount to “abusive tax shelters.”  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit  upheld 
April 15 a lower court decision that found the bank’s leases
with 26 entities including  New Jersey Transit  and the  Washington
Metropolitan Area Transit Authority  “lack economic substance.”
The leases were structured as so-called sale-in, lease-out -- or
SILO -- deals that allow tax-exempt entities to bestow their tax
benefits to a taxpayer for a fee.  The tax benefits include deductions for depreciation of
assets. The appeals court rejected the Wells Fargo leases as
little more than a money-making strategy for all the entities
involved.  “These transactions were win-win situations for all the
parties involved because free money -- in the form of previously
unavailable tax benefits utilized by Wells Fargo -- was divided
among all parties,” Judge William C. Bryson wrote in the
opinion. “The money was not entirely ‘free,’ of course, because
it was in effect transferred to Wells Fargo from the public.”  Mary Eshet , a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, said the bank was “disappointed” by the decision.  “Wells Fargo continues to believe in the merits of the
litigated transactions,” she said in an e-mailed statement
April 15.  The case is Wells Fargo & Co. v. U.S., 2010-5108, U.S.
Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Washington).  For more, click here.  Ex-New York Comptroller Hevesi Gets Up to 4 Years in Prison  Former New York State Comptroller Alan Hevesi, who pleaded
guilty in a pay-to-play scandal at the state pension fund he
once ran, will go to prison for as many as four years.  Hevesi, 71, the highest-ranking official convicted in an
investigation of corruption at the pension fund, was sentenced
to a minimum of one year April 15 by State Supreme Court Justice
Michael Obus in Manhattan. Hevesi, a Democrat, resigned in 2006
after four years as comptroller.  “I publicly disgraced myself,” Hevesi told the judge at
his sentencing hearing. “I have only myself to blame. I will
live with this shame for the rest of my life.”  Hevesi pleaded guilty in October to the crime of receiving
reward for official misconduct. He admitted giving preferential
treatment to Markstone Capital Partners, approving $250 million
in pension-fund investments in exchange for almost $1 million in
gifts, including $75,000 in travel expenses, $380,000 in sham
consulting fees for a lobbyist, and more than $500,000 in
campaign contributions.  Henry “Hank” Morris, Hevesi’s former political
consultant, was sent to prison for as long as four years in
February. Morris, who reaped $19 million in fees through 23
state investments while acting as a middleman, admitted that the
investment process at New York’s pension fund was manipulated to
benefit him, his associates and contributors to Hevesi’s
campaign. Morris agreed to forfeit the $19 million.  The case is People v. Hevesi, New York State Supreme Court,
New York County (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  Abbott Agrees to Pay $52 Million to Resolve Aids Drug Case  Abbott Laboratories (ABT)  agreed to pay $52 million to resolve
claims by direct drug buyers that it tried to harm competition
when it quadrupled the price of its HIV medicine Norvir in 2003.  The settlement, which is subject to court approval, would
resolve a class-action lawsuit filed on behalf of Abbott
customers that purchased Norvir, a boosting agent for other HIV
drugs, and a second medicine Kaletra, which includes Norvir,
according to an April 8 filing in federal court in Oakland,
California. Abbott denied wrongdoing, according to the accord.  Abbott increased the wholesale price of a Norvir capsule
containing 100 milligrams to $8.57 from $1.71, the Abbott Park,
Illinois-based company said in court documents.  GlaxoSmithKline
Plc (GSK)  and drug retailers and distributors sued, claiming other
drugmakers that used Norvir in their medicines couldn’t compete
on price with Kaletra, and the price increase penalized drug
customers that wanted to buy medicines that competed with
Kaletra.  Abbott said it increased Norvir’s prices for legitimate
business purposes and Kaletra lost market share after the price
increase.  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) ,  Walgreen Co. (WAG) ,  Rite Aid Corp. (RAD)  and
retailers that sued opted out of the settlement, according to
court documents.  The case is Meijer v. Abbott Laboratories, 07-5985, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of California (Oakland).  Crest Nicholson, ISG Pearce Win 82% Reduction of U.K. Fines  Britain’s antitrust regulator lost another round of appeals
in its price-fixing case against U.K. builders after a court cut
by 82 percent its fines against Crest Nicholson Plc and a former
subsidiary, ISG Pearce Ltd.  The  Office of Fair Trading  was “wrong in principle” and
out of step with its own guidelines when it fined the companies
a total of 5.19 million pounds ($8.5 million) for joining a
cartel to drive up prices, the  Competition Appeal Tribunal  ruled
April 15 in London. The fine was reduced to 950,000 pounds.  “The ultimate penalty imposed on the appellants in the
decision was disproportionate and excessive in all the
circumstances of the infringement,” the tribunal said in its
judgment.  The regulator in 2009 levied fines totaling 129.5 million
pounds against 103 builders, including  Balfour Beatty Plc (BBY)  and
 Carillion Plc (CLLN) , the U.K.’s two biggest, for rigging bids from
2000 to 2006. Twenty-five companies appealed, including  Kier
Group Plc (KIE) , whose penalty of 17.9 million pounds was reduced to
1.7 million pounds.  “We will consider these judgments in detail, alongside
those in all other construction appeals, and will then decide
whether to appeal to the Court of Appeal,” OFT spokesman Frank
Shepherd said April 15 in a statement.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  BofA Hires SEC’s Former Top Cop for Legal Disputes, Probes  Gary Lynch, the former Securities and Exchange Commission
enforcement head who later helped  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Credit
Suisse AG tackle legal disputes, is looking to repeat his
success at the biggest U.S. bank.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   announced April 14  that it had hired
Lynch, 60, as its global chief of legal, compliance and
regulatory relations. Scott Silvestri, a Bank of America
spokesman, said Lynch wasn’t available for an interview.  Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan, 51, brings in Lynch
as the Charlotte, North Carolina-based bank deals with lawsuits
and investigations tied to soured loans from the housing boom.
The lender, which posted its first profit in three quarters
April 15, had its capital plan rejected by the  Federal Reserve 
last month.  Lynch, who started at the SEC in 1976, headed the
regulator’s enforcement division from 1985 to 1989. He led
investigations of Ivan Boesky, the former takeover investor who
was convicted of insider trading, and Michael Milken, the high-
yield bond chief at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. who went to
prison for securities violations.  Lynch joined Credit Suisse First Boston as it faced a
federal probe into its handling of initial public offerings
during the dot-com bubble. He took over Morgan Stanley’s legal
division after it lost a $1.57 billion verdict as its lawyers
failed to turn over relevant e-mails.  Lynch’s position was newly created, and general counsel Ed
O’Keefe will report to him, the bank said. Lynch, who’s been in
London since 2009, is moving back to New York.  For more, click here.  Court Filings  Galleon’s Rajaratnam Case Most Popular Docket on Bloomberg  The trial of hedge fund manager Raj Rajaratnam was the
most-read litigation docket on the Bloomberg Law system last
week.  Rajaratnam, 53, has been on trial since March 8 in the
largest crackdown on hedge-fund insider trading in U.S. history.
The Sri Lankan-born money manager and co-founder of Galleon is
accused of gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by corporate
insiders and hedge-fund traders. He denies wrongdoing, saying he
based his trades on research.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  