-- 
Rajaratnam Jurors Hear Chiesi’s AMD Discussion as Testimony Ends

-- B y   D a v i d   G l o v i n ,   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/rajaratnam-rests-case-without-taking-stand-in-n-y-insider-trading-trial.html
Galleon Group LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam, at the center of largest crackdown on hedge-fund
 insider trading  in U.S. history, didn’t take the witness stand
as jurors heard one last wiretapped recording in his trial.  Prosecutors’ brief rebuttal of Rajaratnam’s weeklong
defense included playing a recording of a phone call between
Rajaratnam and former New Castle Funds LLC analyst  Danielle Chiesi . During the Sept. 30, 2008, call, Chiesi asked Rajaratnam
if he had bought 1 million shares of  Advanced Micro Devices
Inc. (AMD) , calling the purchase “a very bold move unless you know
what we know.”  Prosecutors, who are scheduled to begin their closing
arguments to the jury tomorrow, have said Rajaratnam got a tip
from  Anil Kumar , a former McKinsey & Co. director, that
Sunnyvale, California-based AMD was about to announce the sale
of a manufacturing entity to Mubadala Development Co., a
sovereign wealth company operated by  Abu Dhabi .  “You really didn’t do the million shares to buy it?”
Chiesi asked on the call.  “I thought it was you, that’s why I called you,”
Rajaratnam said in what was the last of about four dozen
secretly recorded conversations played for jurors during the
trial.  The close of evidence yesterday came six weeks into a trial
that might send Rajaratnam to prison for 20 years. Rajaratnam,
53, is accused of gaining $63.8 million from tips leaked by
corporate insiders and hedge-fund traders about a dozen stocks,
including  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC) , Clearwire Corp.
and Akamai Technologies Inc.  The Sri Lankan-born money manager denies wrongdoing, saying
he based his trades on research.  Closing Arguments  After prosecutors and Rajaratnam’s lawyers complete their
closing arguments, the jury will begin its deliberations.  In the U.S., criminal defendants can’t be compelled to
testify, and the defense isn’t required to explain why
Rajaratnam didn’t take the stand. Prosecutors are barred from
commenting on his decision not to testify during their
summation.  “When you’re caught on a wiretap making powerfully
incriminating statements, it’s very difficult to testify,” said
Anthony Barkow, a former prosecutor in Manhattan who runs a
center on criminal law at  New York University  and isn’t involved
in the case. “He can try to challenge the tapes by saying he
meant something else, but that usually doesn’t work.”  The defense case focused on the testimony of former Galleon
U.S. President Richard Schutte and of Gregg Jarrell, the top
economist for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission from
1984 to 1987.  Lawful Basis  They told jurors that stock trading trends, analyst reports
and news accounts circulating in the marketplace gave Rajaratnam
a lawful basis to make the stock trades that prosecutors say
were corrupt.  Before the defense rested yesterday, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Jonathan Streeter sparred with Jarrell over whether his
conclusions were accurate.  At one point Streeter began a question to Jarrell about
Rajaratnam’s selling shares in  Google Inc. (GOOG)  -- after allegedly
getting tipped about its earnings -- at the same time that
analysts were predicting positive results for the company.  “I don’t think that’s relevant,” Jarrell said.  In rebuttal of the defense case, prosecutors re-called
James Barnacle, a  Federal Bureau of Investigation  agent, to
correct errors in his earlier testimony about Rajaratnam’s
trades. They also played the wiretapped conversation between
Rajaratnam and Chiesi, who has pleaded guilty to insider
trading. She didn’t testify at the trial.  Cross-Examination  In his defense, Rajaratnam relied on cross-examination of
government witnesses, three of whom pleaded guilty to insider
trading and testified in exchange for leniency.  Rajaratnam’s lawyers also called as a character witness
Geoffrey Canada, creator of the Harlem Children’s Zone, a  New
York  nonprofit group focused on education. Canada, who was
featured last year in the documentary film “Waiting for
Superman,” told jurors of Rajaratnam’s generosity.  The defense also called John Pernell, who runs the Polaris
Prime Technology Fund, and Robert Hotz, a lawyer at Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, to contradict the testimony of former
Galleon trader  Adam Smith , a government witness.  Barkow, the NYU professor, said he wasn’t surprised
Rajaratnam didn’t testify.  “When you’re caught on tape saying something relatively
unambiguous, you can’t risk compounding an already bad situation
by making the jury think that you’re lying to them by offering
an implausible explanation,” he said. “It’s very, very
dangerous for a defendant to testify when there’s ammunition
like a wiretap.”  Rajaratnam is charged with five counts of conspiracy and
nine counts of  securities fraud . The conspiracy counts each
carry a maximum five-year prison sentence and the fraud counts
each carry a maximum 20-year term.  The case is U.S. v. Rajaratnam, 1:09-cr-01184, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Glovin in Manhattan federal court at 
 glovin@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in Manhattan federal court at   phurtado@bloomberg.net ;
Bob Van Voris in Manhattan federal court at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  