-- 
Rand Slides to Three-Week Low Against Dollar as Europe Debt Crisis Worsens

-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 
2011-04-18T15:37:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/rand-weakens-against-dollar-euro-amid-concerns-about-european-debt-crsis.html
The rand depreciated to a three-
week low against the dollar as  Europe ’s worsening debt crisis
prompted investors to sell developing-nation assets. Bonds fell
after Standard & Poor’s put a “negative” outlook on  U.S. debt .  The rand slipped as much as 1.6 percent to 6.9032 per
dollar, the weakest intraday level since March 25, and traded
1.2 percent down at 6.8800 by 5:22 p.m. in Johannesburg. It
traded 0.5 percent stronger at 9.7584 per euro.  Investors are shunning risk amid speculation Greece will be
unable to avoid a default and  Finland  won’t support Europe’s
bailout of Portugal. Greek and Portuguese bond yields rose to
the highest since the introduction of the euro today. The
People’s Bank of China increased lenders’ reserve requirements
from April 21 and said monetary tightening will continue for
“some time”, further damping the global economic outlook.  “Continued noise about Greek debt restructuring as well as
the reserve requirement hike in  China  over the weekend have
dented risk sentiment,” BNP Paribas SA analysts led by London-
based Paul Mortimer-Lee wrote in an e-mailed research note.  Slowing growth in China may crimp demand for South Africa’s
commodity exports, reducing the appeal of the rand. China is the
biggest buyer of South African raw materials, according to
department of trade and industry data.  South Africa’s release of inflation data on April 20 may
give investors an indication of the pressure the central bank
will face to lift  interest rates . The  consumer price index 
probably advanced 4 percent from a year ago in March, the
biggest increase since June, compared with 3.7 percent the month
before, according to the median estimate of 21 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Bonds  “We expect significant acceleration compared to the
previous month, which should reverse the short-term slide of the
rand,” the BNP Paribas analysts wrote.  South African  government bonds  fell, snapping two days of
gains, after  Standard & Poor’s  put a “negative” outlook on the
U.S. AAA credit rating, citing rising budget deficits and debt.  “The longer end especially may come under pressure” as
the negative outlook on U.S. debt damps demand for government
bonds, said Deon van Zyl, who oversees about 13 billion rand
($1.9 billion) of debt as head of fixed-interest investments at
Cape Town-based Metropolitan Asset Managers.  South Africa’s 13.5 percent notes due 2015 dropped 30 cents
to 121.10 rand, boosting the yield by seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 7.74 percent. The 10.5 percent bonds
due 2026 slipped 68 cents to 114.66 rand, boosting the yield 7
basis points to 8.76 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  