-- 
Treasury's Oldest Bonds Show Covert Demand With End in Sight for Fed's QE2

-- B y   D a n i e l   K r u g e r
-- 
2011-04-18T16:27:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/treasury-s-oldest-bonds-show-covert-demand-with-end-in-sight-for-fed-s-qe2.html
Investors are paying the smallest
discounts for Treasuries other than the newest, most-traded
bonds since the start of the financial crisis, a sign of growing
demand even as the  Federal Reserve ’s $600 billion buying program
approaches its conclusion.  Yields on older notes with 10 years left to maturity have
fallen to within 11.4 basis points, or 0.114 percentage point,
of those on the newest securities of the same maturity, down
from the peak of 66.1 in January 2009, according to data from
Barclays Plc. The gap for so-called off-the-run notes narrowed
to as little as 6.6 basis points in February, the least since
May 2007.  While investors typically pay the most for benchmark
Treasuries, the shrinking gap suggests that U.S. borrowing costs
are unlikely to soar when the central bank’s second round of so-
called quantitative easing ends in June. The Barclays data show
that the spread in yields is less now than in the five years
before the credit crisis began in 2007.  “There will not be major disruptions in the functioning of
the Treasury market,” said Eric Pellicciaro, the New York-based
head of global rates investments at BlackRock Inc., which
manages about $3.56 trillion in assets. Participation in the
Treasury market will “remain high, if not higher,” he said.  No Concern  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. economists said last week they
don’t expect an increase in yields after the Fed exits the
market, while Credit Suisse AG fixed-income strategists said
Treasury rates may fall as traders reverse bets on a decline.  “We are not concerned about the end of QE2,” the Credit
Suisse strategists led by  Carl Lantz  in New York wrote in the
report. “Our base case is that rates will tend to rally around
the end of the program.”  Treasuries gained last week, with the yield on the
benchmark 10-year note falling 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 3.41 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The decline was the biggest since yields fell by
the same amount in the five days ended Feb. 25. The price of the
3.625 percent security due February 2021 rose 1 13/32, or $14.06
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 25/32.  The security pared gains today, leaving the yield one basis
point lower at 3.40 percent as of 12:22 p.m. in New York, after
 Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook for the U.S.’ credit
rating to negative from stable, citing a “material risk” the
nation’s leaders will fail to deal with rising budget deficits
and debt.  Bond Bears  The yield on the 9.875 percent note sold in November 1985
and due in November 2015 is 16 basis points less than the
benchmark 1.37 percent security issued in November 2010 and
maturing in five years.  The Fed said Nov. 3 it would buy $600 billion of Treasuries
in an effort to spur the sluggish labor market and prevent
deflation to boost the economy. Since then, Labor Department
data show the U.S. has created 723,000 jobs, inflation
expectations as measured by debt yields have increased and
markets from stocks to junks bonds have surged.  Bond bears say the only thing supporting the Treasury
market is investors seeking safety amid turmoil and uprisings in
the Middle East in North Africa, the nuclear disaster in  Japan 
following a record earthquake and tsunami, and  Europe ’s
sovereign-debt crisis.  Rate ‘Pressure’  Pacific Investment Management Co.’s  Bill Gross , manager of
the world’s biggest bond fund, has a net short position in
Treasuries, or a bet pieces will fall, according to the firm’s
website. The founder of  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco
has eliminated Treasuries from his $236 billion Total Return
Fund, saying they offer little value because of the growing U.S.
debt burden and the risk of accelerating inflation.  “There’s going to be roughly $75 billion a month of
issuance that’s going to have to be absorbed by the market,”
said David Glocke, a  fund manager  who oversees $65 billion of
Treasuries at Vanguard Group Inc. in  Valley Forge ,  Pennsylvania .
“That should go ahead and cause some pressure on  interest rates 
to go up.”  Ten-year yields are down from 3.8 percent a year ago and
remain below the average of 5.22 percent over the last two
decades even with the U.S. projected to post a deficit in excess
of $1 trillion for a third-consecutive year. Yields will remain
below 4 percent through year-end, according to the median
forecast of 73 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Rising Volume  A narrowing in the difference in yields between on- and
off-the-run Treasuries comes as the Fed shifts its buying to
newer issues, which account for about 90 percent of trading in
U.S. government securities. More than 36 percent of the
 government bonds  the central bank bought in March were issued
within the previous 90 days, up from 15 percent in November,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch.  In another sign of demand, the volume of Treasury trading
now exceeds levels before the collapse of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. in September 2008, according to Fed data.  Primary dealers have traded an average of $606 billion in
securities each week this year, compared with $584 billion in
the first eight months of 2008, central bank data shows. The
amount dipped to about $410 billion per week in 2009 and $524
billion last year even as debt outstanding surged 54 percent
$8.86 trillion.  Treasuries are also getting a boost from optimism that
President  Barack Obama  and Congress are beginning to address
record debt levels, according to  Brian Edmonds , head of interest
rates at primary dealer Cantor Fitzgerald LP in  New York .  Auction Demand  Obama, a Democrat, unveiled a plan on April 13 to cut $4
trillion in cumulative deficits within 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. The U.S. House
passed a Republican budget on April 15 that would cut spending
by more than $6 trillion over a decade.  “We’re starting to have a meaningful dialogue that
discusses these formerly untouchable things,” Edmonds said.  Demand at Treasury auctions has risen to record levels this
year, with investors submitting $3 in orders for every $1 of
debt offered, data compiled by Bloomberg show. At each of last
week’s auctions of three-, 10- and 30-year bonds, the so-called
bid-to-cover ratio exceeded the average of the previous 10
sales.  The  bond market  has likely already priced in the end of
QE2, according to Goldman Sachs, a primary dealer. Traders
typically adjust prices when the Fed announces its buying  plans 
rather than when it acquires the debt, Sven Jari Stehn, an
economist at the firm in New York, wrote in the report last
week.  “Many market participants are worried that the end of the
Treasury purchases will have strongly adverse effects on bond
yields and other asset prices,” Stehn wrote. “This is
unlikely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Kruger in New York at 
 dkruger1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at 
 bburgess@bloomberg.net  