-- 
Record Peso Rally Has Alfa Planning Second Dollar Bond Sale: Mexico Credit

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 
2011-04-18T21:35:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/record-peso-rally-has-alfa-planning-second-dollar-bond-sale-mexico-credit.html
Alfa SAB,  Mexico ’s second-largest
industrial conglomerate, is lining up its second dollar bond
sale of the year as the record rally in the peso drives down
overseas financing costs for corporate borrowers.  Petrotemex SA, Alfa’s petrochemical unit, plans to sell
bonds abroad this year for the first time since 2009, Chief
Financial Officer Ramon Leal said on April 14. Sigma Alimentos
SA, the food unit of Alfa, sold $450 million of seven-year bonds
to yield 5.77 percent on April 7. The average yield on Mexican
corporate dollar bonds tumbled 142 basis points in the past year
to 6.30 percent, according to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Brazilian
corporate dollar debt yields 5.98 percent.  Record Mexican exports have helped drive the peso up 5
percent this year, extending its two-year advance to 12 percent
and making it cheaper for companies to repay dollar-denominated
bonds. Mexican companies have sold $4.7 billion of international
debt this year, up 96 percent from the $2.4 billion they issued
during the same period in 2010. Companies from  Brazil  have
raised $17.3 billion in the overseas  bond market  this year.  “For a company that generates revenue in peso, you can get
long-term funding at very attractive rates,”  Juan Cruz , an
emerging-market corporate debt analyst at Barclays Plc, said in
a telephone interview. “Companies can go to market in dollars
with a good yield and a tenor of 10 years, giving them
flexibility.”  The yield on Petrotemex’s dollar bonds due in 2014 sank 401
basis points, or 4.01 percentage points, since the company sold
the securities in August 2009 to 5.74 percent as the global
economic recovery fueled demand for emerging-market assets,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Lower Rate  Petrotemex plans to sell bonds abroad instead of locally
because it can obtain a lower rate and longer maturity, Leal
said in an April 14 conference call with reporters. The average
yield on corporate fixed-rate peso bonds issued this year is
8.48 percent, or 218 basis points above dollar debt, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg and JPMorgan.  Fixed-rate sales have accounted for 83 percent of local
bond offerings this year while the rest have been at floating
rates tied to the central bank’s 4.5 percent overnight loan
target, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Companies have
sold 54.3 billion pesos of floating-rate bonds this year, the
fastest start to a year on record, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “We’re now leaning toward financing in the U.S. market,
which allows us to have lower costs,” Leal said. “We see, from
the talks we had with investors, a lot of appetite for solid
companies like the ones we have. The window will be open during
this year for us to go to the market.”  Credit Rating  Petrotemex will likely pay a higher interest rate on its
bonds than Sigma because it is lower rated, Leal said.  Sigma is rated BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s , the lowest
investment grade and two levels higher than Petrotemex.  The peso fell 0.8 percent to 11.7528 per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m.  New York  time.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries was unchanged at 137
today, according to JPMorgan.  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years rose 3 basis points to 103, according to CMA. Credit-
default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for the
underlying securities or cash equivalent if the issuer fails to
comply with debt agreements.  Yields on the interbank rate futures contract due in
September dropped 5 basis points today to 5.01 percent,
indicating traders expect a rate increase that month. In the
past five years, the gap between the 28-day TIIE and the
overnight rate has averaged 36 basis points.  ‘Window’  The central bank kept its benchmark interest rate unchanged
at a record low of 4.5 percent on April 15.  The prospect of higher interest rates in the U.S. means
Mexican companies may have a limited “window” for selling
bonds overseas, said Roy Yackulic, a corporate debt analyst at
Bank of America in New York.  Traders see a 29.4 percent chance that the  Federal Reserve 
will boost its overnight lending rate target at its December
meeting, up from 26.4 percent odds last month, trading in fed
funds futures shows. The Fed has held the rate at zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008.  “People get nervous about when the U.S. will raise rates
and maybe that window won’t be there,” Yackulic said in a
telephone interview.  Record Sale  Cemex SAB, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria’s Mexican unit
and Empresas ICA SAB have sold bonds in international markets
this year. The $2 billion offering by BBVA’s unit matched the
biggest Mexican corporate bond sale on record. Yields on the
bank’s 10-year notes have fallen 21 basis points since the sale
last month to 6.24 percent.  “The companies are trying to take advantage of low rates
globally, not just locally,” Javier Belaunzaran, who helps
manage about 40 billion pesos of fixed-income debt at
Interacciones Casa de Bolsa SA, said in a telephone interview
from Mexico City. “ Interest rates  are so low that any offering
in dollars is going to be relatively attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
{ Thomas Black } in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
{Andres R. Martinez} in Mexico City at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  