-- 
Democrats, Republicans See Clashing Debt Views Bolstered by S&P Revision

-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-19T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/republicans-democrats-dig-in-on-debt-after-s-p-credit-downgrade.html
The divide between Republicans and
Democrats in Congress over combating the nation’s debt was
spotlighted by  Standard & Poor’s  lowering of the U.S. credit
outlook to “negative,” with each side saying the change
bolstered their competing arguments.  Democrats said the revision issued yesterday by New York-
based S&P helps make the case for a broad agreement based on the
debt-cutting plan President Barack Obama outlined last week.
Republicans said the ratings firm’s report reinforces their call
for deeper spending cuts than the president and other Democrats
have been willing to consider.  Charles Schumer  of New York, the Senate’s third-ranking
Democrat, said bipartisan agreement exists on the need to reduce
the debt by $4 trillion over roughly the next decade.  “Now we just need to resolve how to do it,” Schumer, who
is traveling in  Asia  during a two-week congressional break, said
in a statement. Obama’s “balanced plan -- which relies on
shared sacrifice, as opposed to simply ending Medicare -- makes
a long-term deal highly possible,” the senator said.  Republicans have proposed scaling back entitlement programs
such as Medicare and reject Obama’s push for tax increases to
help reduce debt.  ‘Wake-up Call’  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
called the S&P revision “a wake-up call for those in Washington
asking Congress to blindly increase the debt limit” without
significant spending cuts.  The negative outlook on long-term  U.S. debt  issued by S&P
“makes clear that the debt-limit increase proposed by the Obama
administration must be accompanied by meaningful fiscal reforms
that immediately reduce federal spending and stop our nation
from digging itself further into debt,” Cantor said.  Congress is facing a vote as early as next month on raising
the government’s $14.29 trillion legal debt limit. The Treasury
Department projects that it will hit the cap on May 16, though
it could use emergency measures to avoid default until about
July 8.  Obama and members of his economic team have said that
failure to approve an increase could have catastrophic
consequences for the  U.S. economy  and financial markets.  S&P’s Concern  S&P revised the U.S. government’s long-term outlook to
negative on concern the White House and Congress will fail to
reach agreement on cutting medium- and long-term debt.  As part of the debate on the government’s spending, which
also includes hammering out a 2012 budget, Obama last week
offered the outlines of a plan to slash the debt by $4 trillion
over 12 years through a combination of spending cuts and tax
increases.  A group of six Republican and Democratic senators are
trying to strike a compromise along the lines suggested by the
two co-chairmen of a debt commission Obama set up last year.
That plan recommended trimming the budget by $3.8 trillion over
a decade through a mix of spending reductions and tax increases.  Members of the so-called Gang of Six said the S&P revision
shows the markets are watching for signs that policy makers are
serious about confronting the debt issue.  “I still believe we must act sooner rather than later, and
we should work in a bipartisan way to cut spending, including
defense spending, begin to strengthen and reform entitlement
programs and implement tax reform,” Senator Mark Warner of
 Virginia , the group’s Democratic leader, said in a statement.  ‘Brinkmanship’ Caution  “If we fail to take this seriously, and if our deficit and
debt discussions turn into just another game of political
brinksmanship, this could result in the most predictable
economic crisis in our history,” he said.  Senator  Tom Coburn  of Oklahoma, a Republican member of the
group, said the S&P’s change should create a sense of urgency
for tackling “our debt crisis.”  “If we refuse to negotiate within our own government, we
will soon find ourselves negotiating with foreign governments
and the international financial community on terms far less
favorable than we enjoy today,” Coburn said in an e-mailed
statement.  Republican Senator  Bob Corker  of  Tennessee  said a proposal
he is pushing to cap federal spending at 20.6 percent of gross
domestic product within a decade should be a condition of any
debt-limit increase, and that the S&P action increases the
momentum for the move.  Good Timing  “I don’t think any American likes seeing the outlook for
our country’s financial situation downgraded, but it couldn’t
come at a better time, if it had to happen, than now, when we’re
negotiating about how to get spending under control,” Corker
said in an interview.  Senator Lamar Alexander of Tennessee, the Senate’s third-
ranking Republican, said the S&P’s revision reminds the
president and Congress that “we must deal with  Washington 
spending money that we don’t have.”  Speaking in his home state, he said, “We can fix it, but
we have to start now and have the political will to do it.”  Republican Representative Kevin Brady of  Texas , vice
chairman of Congress’s Joint Economic Committee, said the move
builds the case for a budget plan by Republican House Budget
Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan  of  Wisconsin . His proposal would
slash spending by $6 trillion over a decade, in part by
privatizing Medicare and capping Medicaid.  Obama “needs to stop ridiculing Representative Ryan’s
plan, which begins to seriously address our country’s long-term
spending issues, and start supporting it as the best way
forward,” Brady said.  Dwindling Confidence  Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of Texas, head of the House
Republican Conference, said confidence in the U.S. economy is
“sure to dwindle” when Obama “chooses to treat our national
debt as campaign fodder and insists on more spending and more
taxes.”  House Democratic Whip Steny Hoyer of Maryland said the
S&P’s decision “shows the urgent, bipartisan action needed to
put our nation on a serious path to reduce deficits.” It
“demonstrates that Republicans cannot hold the debt limit
hostage over partisan, divisive issues,” he said.  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of Maryland, ranking
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said in a statement the
S&P’s revision “underscores the need to put together a
bipartisan plan now to reduce the deficit in a balanced, steady,
and responsible way as we build the foundation for shared
prosperity and long-term economic growth.”  Market Reaction  The  S&P 500 index (SPX)  was down 1.1 percent at the 4 p.m. close
of trading yesterday to 1,305.14 after declining as much as 1.9
percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  fell 140.24 points, or
1.1 percent, to 12,201.59.  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note jumped as
high as 3.45 percent yesterday in the minutes after the S&P
report. The yield was back down to 3.37 percent at 4:27 p.m. in
New York yesterday as investors focused on speculation that
Greece will be unable to avoid a default, driving them to the
relative safety of U.S. debt.  In trading today, 10-year yields were little changed at
3.38 percent as of 10:27 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg
Bond Trader prices, as Japanese Economic and Fiscal Policy
Minister Kaoru Yosano said U.S. Treasuries are “extremely good-
quality securities.”  A gauge of the dollar advanced the most since November
against the currencies of major trading partners on increased
demand for a refuge as  Europe ’s debt crisis outweighed the
negative S&P U.S. credit-rating outlook.  IntercontinentalExchange’s Dollar Index increased 0.9
percent to 75.508 at 5 p.m. in  New York  yesterday from 74.832 on
April 15. The gauge, which tracks the dollar against the euro,
yen, pound, Swiss franc, Canadian dollar and Swedish krona,
earlier gained 1.3 percent in the biggest intraday advance since
Nov. 23 and touched 75.810, the highest level since April 7.  The dollar appreciated 1.4 percent to $1.4235 per euro in
New York from $1.4430 on April 15. The U.S. currency decreased
0.6 percent to 82.66 yen from 83.13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  