-- 
Rosneft May Pursue BP Swap Without Arctic Deal, Shokhin Says

-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 
2011-04-18T16:13:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/rosneft-may-pursue-bp-swap-without-arctic-deal-shokhin-says.html
OAO Rosneft may swap shares with  BP
Plc (BP/)  and find a new partner for Arctic drilling if a court
alllows the the U.K. explorer to split the two parts of their
agreement, an independent director at BP’s Russian venture said.  “Rosneft is, of course, waiting to see whether BP will be
able to split the parts of the deal in court and proceed with
the share swap without the Arctic project,” Alexander Shokhin,
a TNK-BP board memberg and head of the Russian Union of
Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, said today in Moscow.  “Finding another partner who would join the Arctic deal
and the deal to swap shares is very difficult,” he said. “The
question of exchanging shares with BP was practically decided.”  BP and Rosneft,  Russia ’s largest oil producer, agreed to
extend a share swap deadline by a month to May 16, the London-
based company said on April 14. The deal to swap a 5 percent
holding for about 9.5 percent in Russia’s state oil company and
explore for oil in the Kara Sea was blocked by BP’s Russian
partners in the TNK-BP venture. BP has asked a court to allow it
to pursue the share swap on its own.  Rosneft may seek out another foreign partner to help it
develop deposits in Russia’s Arctic, Shokhin said. “It could be
Exxon Mobil or Shell,” he said.  TNK-BP would have trouble joining Rosneft in developing the
Arctic without taking part in the share swap, Shokhin said.  BP has offered its Russian partners in TNK-BP participation
in Arctic projects, cash and international projects so that it
can go ahead with an exploration deal and share swap with
Rosneft, BP Chief Executive Officer  Robert Dudley  said on April
14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net . 