-- 
Royal Weddings Fuel Brutal Oligarchs, Fat Pigs: London Stage

-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 
2011-04-18T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/royal-weddings-fuel-brutal-oligarchs-cruel-plots-fat-pigs-london-stage.html
In “The Tsar’s Bride” the
poisoned heroine goes mad, her lover is executed, and the
villain’s throat is cut. Who guessed a royal wedding could be so
exciting?  Rimsky-Korsakov’s 1899 work, currently in a new staging at
the  Royal Opera House  in  London , tells the story of Marfa, a
young woman who is unwillingly ordered to marry a tsar. This
causes all sorts of ructions for her sweetheart, and for an evil
nobleman who burns with desire for her.  The opera is rarely performed in the West, and has never
been seen before at Covent Garden. It’s a hot-and-cold piece,
with ravishing music and a diffuse plot that sidelines the
central love story and sometimes relies on dramatic cliche.  Forget the fat lady. You know this one’s over when all the
principals are lying in a bloodsoaked heap on stage.  Director Paul Curran sets the action among modern Moscow
oligarchs, and it makes an effective background for a story
about brutality and the power of wealth. The evil Grigory likes
to tie up and torture his enemies in his very own stylish
restaurant.  Marfa’s father invites friends to his rooftop pool terrace,
complete with stunning views of Moscow.  Dramatic Lurches  Like the piece itself, Curran’s production has its flaws.
For each gorgeous set design, there’s a lackluster one. For
every moment of well-paced dramatic tension, there’s a period of
stasis and narrative confusion. It’s all like a car that keeps
slipping unexpectedly between second and fourth gears.  Marina Poplavskaya (Marfa) performs with an intensity that
compensates for her unrelaxed and tense sound. Tenor Dmitry
Popov (Ivan) and baritone Johan Reuter (Grigory) sing with
caressing beauty as her lover and nemesis, respectively.  Go for the rarity value, and some glorious musical
highlights. Rating: **.  There’s another royal wedding from OperaUpClose, a company
that won an  Olivier Award  this year for its lively  pub-theater 
staging of Puccini’s “La Boheme.” Their latest venture is
another low-budget staging of Monteverdi’s 1642 sex’n’suicide
shocker “The Coronation of Poppea.”  Playwright Mark Ravenhill both translates the libretto and
makes his opera directing debut. He updates the action to the
decadent 1970s, and swathes his cast in colorful man-made
fabrics, headbands and bangly jewelry.  For the most part, his thrust-stage production is fun, and
the narrative, about a woman who stops at nothing to become wife
of Emperor Nero (Jessica Walker), is clearly told.  Musical Squid  There’s nothing clear about the accompaniment, which plops
on the ear like a dead squid. Music director and pianist Alex
Silverman adapts the score for a jazz trio, adding blues notes
and syncopated rhythms. Since he rarely looks over to the stage
or singers, and never establishes rhythmic control over his
players, the quotient of musical wince-factor disasters is
dispiritingly high. Good idea, badly executed.  No such problems with the singing. Sweet-toned Zoe Bonner
is a gem as Poppea, and Rebecca Caine injects plenty of oomph
into the role of Nero’s abandoned wife Ottavia. She sings a
newly composed “insertion aria” by Michael Nyman, which
accurately predicts Poppea’s grisly fate. Other singers are
good, though not quite top drawer.  A plucky experiment, which is equally divided between hit
and miss. Rating: **.  Stolen Porker  There’s a similar tangle of good and bad in “Betty Blue
Eyes,” a new  musical  about -- you guessed it -- a royal
wedding, by George Stiles and Anthony Drewe.  Loosely based on Alan Bennett’s 1984 movie “A Private
Function,” it tells of a claustrophobic northern U.K. town
which, despite food rationing, is planning to celebrate the
wedding of Princess Elizabeth in 1947. When lowly chiropodist
Gilbert Chilvers (Reece Shearsmith) isn’t invited to the party,
he steals Betty, a pig that has been illegally reared for the
wedding feast.  On the plus side, Betty (voiced at the very end by  Kylie Minogue ) is the cutest animatronic porker imaginable. Gilbert’s
socially ambitious wife Joyce (Sarah Lancashire) gets a razzle-
dazzle number “Nobody Calls Me Nobody” that rattles the
rafters, as does a pastiche jitterbug called “Lionheart.”  Richard Eyre’s production is terrifically slick, and
recreates the grim grayness of class-conscious postwar Britain
with comic relish.  On the minus side, a lack of narrative focus pulls at the
seams of the show. Sometimes it’s about climbing up the greasy
class ladder. Sometimes it’s about Gilbert’s growing fondness
for Betty, and the fact that she’s too adorable to eat. The two
ideas are not easily interwoven.  The bleak ending of Bennett’s film is also ditched for
something much more upbeat and, ultimately, toothless. Never
fear, Betty lives to oink another day.  Lancashire steals the show as the socially desperate Joyce.
Oddly, director Eyre casts non-singers in most of the other
roles. They’re all good actors. They also all have worrying
problems of breath control and intonation.  A sow’s ear, which is only partially a silk purse.  Rating: **.  “The Tsar’s Bride” is in repertory at the Royal Opera
through May 2. Information:  http://www.roh.org.uk  or
+44-20-7304-4000. “The Coronation of Poppea” is in repertory
at the King’s Head Theatre,  http://www.kingsheadtheatre.com  or
+44-20-7478-0160. “Betty Blue Eyes” is at the Novello Theatre,
 http://www.bettyblueeyesthemusical.com .  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The  opinions  expressed are
his own.)  
To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in London, at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 