-- 
Sales Increases at More U.S. Companies Signal Payroll Gains, Survey Shows

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/sales-gains-signal-more-u-s-growth-business-economists-say.html
More U.S. companies than at any
time since 1994 reported sales gains in the first quarter, a
sign they’ll keep hiring and investing, a survey showed.  The percentage of businesses reporting an increase in sales
in the past three months climbed to 63 percent, while fewer
companies said revenue fell, according to a survey issued today
by the National Association for Business Economics.  Rising sales and profit margins help explain why economists
project the labor market will improve in coming months and
 capital spending  will keep manufacturing at the helm of the
economic expansion. At the same time, the share of firms that
raised prices to recoup higher materials costs more than doubled
from the prior survey, signaling inflation may pick up.  “The economy continues to recover,” Shawn DuBravac, chief
economist at the  Consumer Electronics Association  in Arlington,
 Virginia , who analyzed the results, said in a statement. “Both
recent results and the outlook for sales and profit margins
continue to improve.” Even so, the survey reflects “early
signs of inflationary pressures.”  Some 38 percent of respondents said the economy will grow
at least 3.1 percent this year, on a fourth quarter-to-fourth
quarter basis, compared with 20 percent in the January survey.  The outlook for employment strengthened compared with the
association’s January survey. No companies projected payrolls
will fall due to significant layoffs in the next six months, and
fewer firms projected a decline in workers through attrition.  Employment Outlook  The difference between those forecasting an increase in
hiring and a decrease in payrolls resulted in a net employment
outlook index of 36, the highest in the 12-year history of the
association’s question.  Capital investment plans remained positive, while easing
from the prior quarter’s survey. Fifty-three percent of the
participants said they plan to boost spending on new equipment
in the next 12 months, down from 62 percent.  Cost pressures are building. The share of firms reporting
higher expenses for materials in the past quarter jumped to 63
percent, while none said they faced falling costs.  The share of businesses reporting higher wages in the past
three months exceeded those who said they’d lowered pay,
resulting in the biggest gap since October 2007.  More firms are trying to pass along the expenses. Thirty-
five percent of respondents reported their companies charged
higher prices in the past three months, up from 16 percent in
the previous survey, while a smaller share said their prices
fell. The difference led to a net prices-charged index of 29,
the highest reading since April 2007, after 6 in the prior
survey.  Seventy-two NABE members responded to the survey, conducted
between March 16 and March 31. The National Association for
Business Economics, founded in 1959, is the professional
organization for people who use economics in their work.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra at in Washington or
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  