-- 
Savanna, New York’s Most Active Office Buyer, Raises $550 Million for Fund

-- B y   D a v i d   M .   L e v i t t
-- 
2011-04-18T15:31:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/savanna-most-active-buyer-of-manhattan-offices-closes-550-million-fund.html
Savanna Investment Management LLC,
the most active buyer of  Manhattan  office buildings last year,
raised about $550 million for its second investment fund.  Savanna, which buys troubled loans and seeks to convert
them into ownership, exceeded its $400 million fundraising
target, the New York-based real estate private-equity firm said
in a statement today. The company completed six transactions for
buildings totaling 2.2 million square feet (204,390 square
meters) in the last 12 months, and expects to do similar deals
in its target markets of New York and  Washington , according to
Nicholas Bienstock, managing partner.  “All of the assets that we’ve purchased in Manhattan are
zombie buildings that effectively have been dead in the water,
where ownership hasn’t been in a position to execute leases,”
Bienstock said in a phone interview. “We’re deleveraging and
recapitalizing them, investing in them and putting them back
into productive use.”  Opportunistic real estate buyers have been seeking to take
advantage of a drop in values after the the 2008 credit crisis,
which left some owners owing more than their properties are
worth. Companies such as Savanna invest in distressed mortgages,
and either negotiate with the borrower or foreclose to get an
equity position in a property.  Savanna Purchases  Savanna  last year acquired a 96 percent interest in 386
Park Avenue South, a 260,000-square-foot, 20-story  office tower 
in Manhattan’s Gramercy Park area, and full ownership of 104
West 40th St., a 210,000-square-foot building near  Bryant Park ;
1375 Broadway, a 513,400-square-foot property in the Garment
District; and 5 Hanover Square, a 333,000-square-foot tower in
lower Manhattan, Bienstock said.  The four office acquisitions in 2010 were the most of any
buyer of Manhattan buildings valued at $2.5 million or more,
according to Real Capital Analytics Inc., a New York-based
research firm that tracks commercial real estate sales.  SL Green
Realty Corp. (SLG) , the real estate investment trust that is New
York’s biggest office landlord, was second with three purchases.  “Savanna has become a big player because they are willing
to get their hands dirty, whether it be buying a loan in order
to foreclose, investing in a property which needs significant
renovation, or recapitalizing a struggling property via a joint
venture,” said  Ben Thypin , senior market analyst at Real
Capital. “The traditional big players -- REITs, institutions,
foreign investors -- aren’t always willing to get creative.”  Two Deals  So far this year, Savanna has acquired the senior mezzanine
loan on 100 Wall St., a 504,000-square-foot downtown tower, and
the senior mortgage on 80 Broad St., a 413,000-square-foot
building across from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s former
headquarters.  The second fund is already about 40 percent invested,
Bienstock said.  The fund seeks 20 percent annual returns and aims to double
investors’ equity, he said. Savanna typically borrows about 65
percent of its total capital, so the remaining money in the fund
has about $1 billion of buying power, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David M. Levitt in  New York  at 
 dlevitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel in New York at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  