-- 
Siderar Falls as Regulator Seeks to Annul Shareholder Vote

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-04-18T21:08:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/siderar-falls-as-regulator-seeks-to-annul-shareholder-vote-1-.html
Siderar SAIC (ERAR) , Argentina’s largest
steelmaker, plunged the most in 11 months after the local
regulator invalidated a meeting at which shareholders approved
quadrupling the company’s dividend.  Siderar retreated 5.5 percent to 29.95 pesos at 4 p.m. New
York time, the steepest fall since May. The Merval index fell
2.4 percent to 3,300.98. Trading on Siderar’s shares had been
suspended between 10 a.m. and 11:20 a.m., the Buenos Aires
exchange said on its website.  The steelmaker plans to appeal the decision of the Comision
Nacional de Valores, Argentina’s securities regulator, to annul
the April 15 shareholder meeting, according to a statement it
posted today on the regulator’s website.  “This all causes uncertainty about the company’s plan,”
Juan Jose Vasquez, an analyst at Bull Market Brokers, said today
in a telephone interview from  Buenos Aires .  Siderar previously paid a dividend of 1.10 pesos per share,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Siderar also decided at the shareholder meeting to defer a
vote on the composition of the company’s board until May 11.
 Ternium SA (TX) , Siderar’s controller, may seek an injunction to
block the government from naming a representative to its board,
Economy Minister  Amado Boudou  said on the day of the meeting.  Argentine President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner signed a
decree on April 13 allowing the national pension agency, known
as Anses, to exercise full voting power on boards of 42
companies in which it owns shares. Previously, Anses was allowed
a maximum of 5 percent of  voting rights , even if it owned a
larger percentage of shares.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  