-- 
Singapore Exchange's Third-Quarter Net Income Declines 10% on ASX Costs

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s   a n d   W e i y i   L i m
-- 
2011-04-19T09:42:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/singapore-exchange-s-third-quarter-net-income-declines-10-on-asx-costs.html
Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) , the
operator of the city-state’s securities and derivatives markets,
said third-quarter profit fell 10 percent on costs linked to its
failed attempt to buy Australian bourse operator ASX Ltd.  Net income slid to S$67 million ($54 million) from S$74.6
million a year earlier, the company said in a statement today.
Operating revenue climbed 10 percent to S$169 million. Costs
associated with the aborted ASX deal were S$12 million, the
company said. There will be no more costs from the aborted ASX
offer, said Chief Financial Officer Seck Wai Kwong.  Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker  has boosted trading
with the introduction of 19 American depositary receipts of
Chinese companies in October and announcing a S$250 million
order processor that may be the world’s fastest when it goes
live in August this year. His most ambitious plan, the A$8.3
billion ($8.7 billion) offer to buy  ASX Ltd. (ASX) , was blocked by the
Australian government on April 8.  “In the fourth quarter, I see improvement in trading
volume over the January-March numbers,” Carmen Lee, an analyst
at OCBC Investment Research Pte, said. “If this momentum
continues and is sustainable, fourth quarter results will be
better.”  A daily average of S$1.69 billion of shares traded on the
exchange in the third quarter, compared with S$1.53 billion a
year earlier, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Singapore Exchange  dropped 1.6 percent to S$7.95 at the 5
p.m. close in Singapore.  Trading Growth  Trading volumes have recovered in the past two years after
tumbling in 2008 as the financial crisis dragged the world’s
economies into recession. Singapore’s benchmark Straits Times
Index sank by a record 49 percent in 2008, then surged 64
percent in 2009 and rose 10 percent last year as stimulus
measures around the world helped revive the global economy.  Bursa Malaysia Bhd. (BURSA) , the stock exchange operator, said
first-quarter profit rose 44 percent from a year earlier as
government efforts to spur economic growth bolstered trading
volume.  “SGX generated strong operating results in the third
quarter amidst global market uncertainty,” Bocker, who took
over from Hsieh Fu Hua in December 2009, said in the statement.
The increase in revenue “helped offset the higher expenses from
our continued investments in building SGX’s Asian gateway.”  Bocker, who stitched together eight European stock markets
and sold them in a bidding war to  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  four
years ago, was president of Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. before joining
the Singapore bourse.  “We will continue to pursue organic as well as other
strategic growth opportunities,” Bocker said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net ;
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  