-- 
Singamas May Raise Container Prices 11% on Higher Steel Cost, Japan Quake

-- B y   K y u n g h e e   P a r k
-- 
2011-04-18T08:55:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/singamas-may-raise-container-prices-11-on-higher-steel-cost-japan-quake.html
Singamas Container Holdings Ltd. (716) ,
the second-biggest maker of shipping boxes, may increase prices
11 percent this year after steel costs rose and the  Japan 
tsunami exacerbated a global shortage of cargo boxes.  “Mountains of containers were washed away,” Chief
Executive Officer Teo Siong Seng said in an interview in
 Singapore  on April 15. “Some of these containers will be
replaced.”  The price of 20-foot cargo boxes may rise to $3,000 for
June and July deliveries depending on steel and labor costs,
compared with about $2,700 at the end of last year, he said.
Steel prices in  China , where Hong Kong-based Singamas operates
factories, have risen about 7 percent this year.  The Japan tsunami and quake may generate industrywide
demand for an additional 1 million replacement boxes over two
years after containers were destroyed or contaminated by
radiation from a damaged nuclear power plant, Quam Securities Co.
said in an April 8 note. That loss has worsened a global
shortage caused by shipping lines slowing vessels, a decline in
production during the global recession and a world trade pick-up.  “Come late April, early May you will see the tightness
coming in,” Teo said. “Ships are getting full.”  Singamas expects to make more boxes this year than 2010’s
tally of 640,000, he said, without elaboration. Output surged
last year after the company slashed production in 2009 amid the
global recession.  The box-maker rose 1.1 percent to HK$3.59 at the close of
trading in  Hong Kong , compared with a 0.7 percent decline for
the benchmark  Hang Seng Index . The company has jumped 44 percent
this year, compared with a 5.4 percent gain for the yuan shares
of larger rival China International Marine Containers (Group) Co.
in Shenzhen.  Container Houses  Singamas plans to boost sales by selling more specialized
containers, including refrigerated units and ones able to carry
live fish. It expects these boxes to account for half of revenue
within three to five years from about 19 percent last year, Teo
said.  The company also makes containers that can be used as
houses in undeveloped areas or disaster zones. The company has
bid to provide house kits to Christchurch following  New
Zealand ’s worst temblor in 80 years in February, Teo said
without elaboration. It is also looking into sales in Japan
following the magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami, he said.  The price of these house kits, which are sold in
Australasia, the Pacific islands and  Africa , range from $15,000
to $100,000, he said.  New Factories  The company’s container production capacity will increase
13 percent this year to 850,000 boxes after the completion of a
factory move, Teo said. Power shortages and hot weather may
hinder output during the June-September summer months, he said.
Production will increase next year as the company is investing
about $170 million building two new plants near  Shanghai , Teo
said. They will increase the company’s annual capacity to 1
million boxes in 2012.  Shipping lines slowing vessels has worsened a box shortage
as longer journey times to the U.S. and  Europe  from  Asia  mean
that boxes can’t be used as often. Container vessels operated at
an average speed of 11.15 knots last month, 14 percent less than
two years ago, according to Bloomberg data, as lines slowed
ships to pare fuel usage.  The shortage of boxes may stretch beyond 2012, as lines add
more large vessels, which will likely operate at slower speed,
Teo said. A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S in February ordered as many as
30 ships able to carry 18,000 containers each, which will be the
world’s largest container vessels.  Demand may also jump around 2012 as many shipping lines and
container lessors now plan to scrap boxes after 10 years of use,
Teo said. The global fleet is about eight-years-old on average,
he said. There were about 29 million containers worldwide as of
January,  Textainer Group Holdings Ltd. (TGH) , the biggest box-lessor,
said on its  website , citing Andrew Foxcroft Container Data UK.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyunghee Park in Singapore at 
 kpark3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  