-- 
Solar Plane Backed by Deutsche Bank Stages Test Flight Over Switzerland

-- B y   R a n d a l l   H a c k l e y
-- 
2011-04-18T13:53:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/solar-plane-backed-by-deutsche-bank-flies-for-two-hours-in-bern.html
Solar Impulse, an experimental sun-
powered aircraft backed by  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , conducted a test
flight early today over the Swiss countryside.  The HB-SIA plane took off at 7:09 a.m. from the Payerne
military air field between Bern and Lausanne and landed almost
two hours later under clear blue skies. The aircraft, whose four
engines are powered by lithium batteries supplied by  SunPower
Corp. (SPWRA)  of San Jose, California, was piloted by Andre Borschberg
before its June 20-26 appearance at the Paris Air Show.  “It was perfect conditions, a really good flight,” said
Borschberg after the silver plane glided in over yellow-
flowering fields near Lake Neuchatel. The single-seat plane is
so light with the most energy-efficient materials and such lift
in its long wings that it takes off at about 35 knots (40 miles 
per hour) and averages 70 kmh aloft.  The carbon-fiber aircraft is the brainchild of Swiss
adventurer Bertrand Piccard, and at 1,600 kilograms (3,500
pounds) it weighs no more than a mid-sized automobile. The craft
has 11,600 solar cells mostly atop wings that span 63.4 meters
(208 feet), about as long as an Airbus 340. Its 10-horsepower
engines make almost no noise aloft.  Solar Impulse is planning European flights this year with
Brussels a possible destination, and multiday flights that may
take it to Turkey or North Africa next year. In 2014, organizers
say they hope for the world’s first sun-powered round-the-world
flight. Last July it became the first aircraft to fly through
the night propelled entirely by solar cells and sunlight-powered
lithium batteries that stored energy during the day.  Toyota, Solvay, Omega  Besides Deutsche Bank, sponsors of the 110 million-Swiss
franc ($123 million) project include Japan’s  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,
the Belgian company  Solvay SA (SOLB) , German firm  Bayer AG (BAYN) ’s Material
Science unit,  Altran Technologies SA (ALT)  of France and the Swiss
companies  Schindler Holding AG (SCHN) ,  Swisscom AG (SCMN)  and  Swatch Group
AG (UHR) ’s Omega brand.  Piccard and co-pilot Brian Jones in 1999 became the first
to fly around Earth in a hot-air balloon, starting from
Switzerland and landing almost 20 days later in Egypt.
Borschberg has more than 40 years of flying experience including
fighter jets and HB-SIA, dubbed ‘the zero-fuel airplane.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Hackley in Zurich at 
 rhackley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  