-- 
South Africa Begins to Shutter Mineral Prospecting Ventures After Breaches

-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 
2011-04-18T15:07:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/south-africa-sends-434-notices-to-cancel-prospecting-rights-minister-says.html
South Africa , the nation with the
biggest mineral wealth, said it will start closing mineral
prospecting operations from tomorrow after a review of licenses
found that the recipients of hundreds of permits are breaching
the accords.  “We’ve served notices, some of those have been ignored,”
Mineral Resources Minister Susan Shabangu told reporters in
 Pretoria  today. “Our first operation is closing down some of
what are now illegal operations with effect from tomorrow.”  The government has issued 434 notices of its intention to
cancel rights and another 713 notices were delivered to holders
of licenses found to be breaking environmental rules, it said.  The  Department of Mineral Resources  today lifted a
moratorium on prospecting rights applications introduced on
Sept. 1 after maladministration in the award of some permits was
uncovered, adding to investor concern over mineral rights. The
ministry audited current licenses during the break.  Some rights holders “failed to comply by willfully failing
to commence with prospecting activities within the stipulated
period, thereby breaching the law,” Shabangu said. Others gave
“distorted and inaccurate” information, she said, declining to
identify the parties, which included “major mining companies.”  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and  Anglo American Plc (AAL)  are among
companies that mine coal, platinum and diamonds in South Africa,
which Citigroup AG last year said has mineral resources worth
about $2.5 trillion.  Competitive Application Process  BHP, Anglo and  Kumba Iron Ore Ltd. (KIO) , a unit of Anglo, said
they couldn’t immediately comment on whether they’d received any
notices from the government.  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s local alloys unit,
 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd. (ANG)  and Impala Platinum Holdings Plc said
they hadn’t received notices.  South Africa will consider introducing a “competitive
process” for new prospecting rights applications, Shabangu
said. “The first-come-first-served principle is all well and
good when it comes to allocation of new rights, but the interest
of optimal utilization that serves the interests of both the
state and applicants is not always achieved.”  The mines department will examine areas where overlapping
rights have been awarded, she said. Some cases have already been
resolved, 11 are “complex,” and four more are subject to
litigation, Shabangu said. The department is aware of almost 120
instances where “double granting” occurred, she said.  Impala and  Lonmin Plc (LMI) , the world’s second and third largest
producers of the metal, said last year overlapping rights were
awarded on properties where they have titles. Anglo’s Kumba last
year asked the court to review the award over a portion of the
Sishen iron-ore mine to Imperial Crown Trading, a company linked
to President  Jacob Zuma ’s son Duduzane.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at   ajordan11@bloomberg.net  