-- 
Spanish Borrowing Costs Rise at Auction of Treasury Bills as Demand Falls

-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   B e n   S i l l s
-- 
2011-04-18T10:24:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/spanish-borrowing-costs-rise-at-auction-of-treasury-bills-as-demand-falls.html
Spain  sold 4.66 billion euros
($6.68 billion) of bills, and its borrowing costs rose as
investors increased bets Greece will restructure its debt and a
euro-skeptic party increased its support in Finnish elections.  The Treasury said it sold 3.5 billion euros of 12-month
bills at an average yield of 2.77 percent, compared with 2.128
percent at the previous auction on March 15. It also sold 1.15
billion euros of 18-month bills at 3.364 percent, compared with
2.436 percent in March.  Demand for the 12-month debt was 1.63 times the amount
sold, compared with 2.37 last month, and the bid-to-cover ratio
for the 18-month debt was 2.04, compared with 3.51. The Treasury
aimed to sell a maximum of 5.5 billion euros.  Spanish 10-year borrowing costs rose for a fourth day today
as investors increased bets that  Greece  will restructure its
debt, even as Finance Minister George Papaconstantinou said the
“pain” of doing so would be worse than repaying lenders.
Borrowing costs in the euro region’s periphery also rose after a
Finnish party that opposes euro-area bailouts won enough support
in elections yesterday to form part of a coalition government in
the AAA-rated nation.  “The talk about Greek restructuring isn’t helping
sentiment,” said Eric Wand, a rates strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in  London . “The bigger issue will be around
the longer-dated sales, if we saw them starting to suffer.”  Spread Widens  Spain plans to sell 10-year bonds on April 20, a day before
the start of the Easter holiday in  Madrid . The gap between
Spanish and German yields of that maturity widened to 223 basis
points after the auction, from 204 basis points on April 15.
That compares with a euro-era record of 298 basis points on Nov.
30, after Ireland became the second euro nation following Greece
to seek a European Union bailout, and an average of 15 basis
points in the first decade of monetary union. The Ibex 35 stock
index fell 1.1 percent.  “The timing wasn’t ideal given all the weekend news and
conditions are a bit thin due to the approaching holidays,”
said  Sean Maloney , a fixed-income strategist at Nomura
International Plc in London. “I’m trying not to read too much
into it at this stage but keeping an eye out all the same.”  While Finance Minister  George Papaconstantinou  said in an
April 16 interview that Greece has no plans to restructure its
debt, German officials have openly discussed the possibility.
Last week, Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  was quoted as
saying “further measures may have to be taken” if Greece fails
a June audit and Deputy Foreign Minister Werner Hoyer said in an
interview that restructuring “would not be a disaster.”  European Central Bank council member George Provopoulos, who
heads the Bank of Greece, said today a restructuring is neither
necessary nor desirable. Greek two- and 10-year  government bonds 
slumped, driving yields to the highest since the introduction of
the euro.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sills at   bsills@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 