-- 
Specialty Products Bankruptcy Judge Threatens to Replace Disputing Lawyers

-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 
2011-04-18T19:58:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/specialty-products-bankruptcy-judge-threatens-to-replace-disputing-lawyers.html
The judge in the bankruptcy of
Specialty Products Holding Corp., a unit of Rust-Oleum maker  RPM
International Inc. (RPM) , threatened to replace lawyers with a trustee
in the case because of battles over an exchange of documents.  “I’m starting to wonder if every counsel in this case
needs to be taken off the case and to start over and see if we
can get everybody to work together,” U.S. Bankruptcy Judge
Judith K Fitzgerald told lawyers for the company and its
creditors.  “I really am considering removing everybody and putting a
trustee in place,” Fitzgerald told the attorneys today during a
hearing in Wilmington Delaware, before she took a break after
saying she was too “frustrated” to continue.  The two sides have been battling over what documents
they’re obligated to exchange as they prepare for a hearing
about how much money Specialty may owe people who claim to be
harmed by asbestos products the company used to make.  Specialty is a unit of Medina, Ohio-based RPM, which makes
coatings and other specialty painting products. The company
filed bankruptcy last year in order to set up a  trust fund  to
handle all of its future asbestos liabilities.  Continuing Disagreement  Attorneys on both sides said the judge is unhappy with the
continuing disagreement over what documents asbestos victims and
their lawyers must turn over to Specialty. The company is
demanding details about payments to asbestos victims from past
legal proceedings.  The company says it wants to use a new economic model to
estimate how much it will have to pay asbestos plaintiffs by
gathering data about past payments. Attorneys who specialize in
asbestos lawsuits say Specialty is asking for private medical
data it doesn’t need and that the new model is inaccurate.  “They say they have a better mouse trap,” Natalie Ramsey,
an attorney for a committee of asbestos victims said in an
interview today. “We believe it’s incredibly expensive and not
any more accurate.”  Company attorney Gregory Gordon said details about past
payments may show that the average payment to asbestos victims
is going down. To prove it, a company expert needs to build a
database with details on as many settlements as possible.  Asbestos particles can lodge in a person’s lungs, causing
respiratory illnesses and cancer.  The bankruptcy case is In re Specialty Products Holdings
Corp., 10-11780,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 