-- 
Standard & Poor’s Places ‘Negative’ Outlook on the U.S. AAA Credit Rating

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 
2011-04-18T18:30:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/standard-poor-s-places-negative-outlook-on-the-u-s-aaa-credit-rating.html
Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S.
government on notice that it risks losing its AAA credit rating
unless policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget
deficits and the national debt.  “If an agreement is not reached and meaningful
implementation does not begin by then, this would in our view
render the U.S. fiscal profile meaningfully weaker than that of
peer ‘AAA’ sovereigns,” New York-based S&P said today in a
report that maintained its top rating on U.S. long-term debt
while lowering the outlook to “negative” for the first time.  S&P said there’s a one-in-three chance that the rating
might be cut within two years and that its “baseline
assumption” is that Congress and the Obama administration will
come to terms on a plan to reduce record deficits. Treasuries
and the dollar rebounded from early losses following the
statement, while stocks declined. Moody’s Investor Service,
which has a stable outlook on  U.S. debt , today said the U.S.
budget debate is “positive” for the country’s credit.  “For most investors there is nowhere else to put their
money as the U.S. still has the strongest, deepest, most-liquid
markets in the world,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “There is no
alternative.”  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield was 3.37 
percent at 2:19 p.m. in New York after rising as high as
3.45 percent. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index fell 1.4
percent to 1,301.41. The cost to protect against a default by
the government and the nation’s banks rose.  Europe’s Woes  Sovereign  credit quality  has gained prominence as European
countries from  Greece  to Portugal struggle to finance their
debt. The Group of 20 nations named the U.S. as one of seven
large economies that will face deeper scrutiny so their politics
don’t derail a global expansion.  Overseas investors hold about half of the roughly $9
trillion in outstanding U.S. debt, including $1.2 trillion held
by  China . Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  has said the
U.S. shouldn’t be “borrowing from the Chinese” and other
foreign investors to finance tax cuts for the wealthiest
Americans.  Maintaining investor confidence overseas will be a question
of political credibility rather than solvency for the U.S., said
 Lena Komileva , global head of G10 strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co in  London .  Lagging Behind  “In the relative universe of sovereign credits, investors
are likely to view that the current episode of U.S. actions
lagging behind market expectations as transitory which will keep
U.S. risk premia contained,” Komileva said. “The euro remains
the epicenter of global systemic risk.”  The Treasury said S&P’s outlook “underestimates” U.S.
leadership, while Republicans tied the outlook change to the
current fight over when and how to raise the debt ceiling. The
Treasury says the $14.29 trillion limit will be reached no later
than May 16, at which point the department will turn to
emergency measures that provide borrowing room through about
July 8.  S&P didn’t mention the debt ceiling among the budgetary
risks it sees that affect the U.S. outlook, and it noted that
the U.S. has “unique external flexibility” because the dollar
is the world’s most-used currency. The ratings company focused
on the political calendar, saying that if current negotiations
fail, it might not be possible to get an agreement until at
least the 2014 budget cycle.  ‘Material Risk’  “We believe there is a material risk that U.S. policy
makers might not reach an agreement on how to address medium-
and long-term budgetary challenges by 2013,” S&P said in its
statement.  Moody’s Investor Service said today that the U.S. budget
debate is a positive development as Republicans and Democrats
focus on the issue.  “While the politics surrounding an agreement remain
contentious, we believe these two proposals together represent a
significant shift in the U.S. fiscal debate, as both would
result in lower deficits and debt levels,” Moody’s, which has a
Aaa stable rating for the U.S., said in a report today.  President  Barack Obama  has proposed cutting $4 trillion in
cumulative deficits within 12 years through a combination of
spending cuts and tax increases. The administration is resisting
Republican calls for swifter cuts, while also pushing for a set
of rules to enforce spending reductions over time.  Austan Goolsbee , Obama’s chief economic adviser, rejected
the S&P’s negative outlook, calling it a “political judgment”
that he said doesn’t deserve “too much weight.”  ‘Political Judgment’  “They are saying their political judgment is that over the
next two years they didn’t see a political agreement” to reduce
long-term deficits, Goolsbee, chairman of the  Council of
Economic Advisers , told Bloomberg Television’s InBusiness with
Margaret Brennan. “I don’t think that the S&P’s political
judgment is right.”  Goolsbee said Obama and Republican congressional leaders
are “pretty close” in the deficit reduction targets they have
announced. Each has set a target of $4 trillion, though  House
Republicans  have a timeline of 10 years and the White House
proposal would cumulatively cut that amount over 12 years.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor called the S&P warning
“a wake-up call for those in  Washington  asking Congress to
blindly increase the debt limit.”  S&P’s negative outlook “makes clear that the debt-limit
increase proposed by the Obama administration must be
accompanied by meaningful fiscal reforms that immediately reduce
federal spending and stop our nation from digging itself further
into debt,” the Virginia Republican said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shannon D. Harrington in  New York  at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net ;
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  