-- 
U.S. Credit Rating May Be Cut by S&P Unless Lawmakers Agree to Reduce Debt

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 
2011-04-18T22:38:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/standard-poor-s-puts-negative-outlook-on-u-s-aaa-rating.html
Standard & Poor’s  put the U.S.
government on notice that it risks losing its AAA credit rating
unless policy makers agree on a plan by 2013 to reduce budget
deficits and the national debt.  “If an agreement is not reached and meaningful
implementation does not begin by then, this would in our view
render the U.S. fiscal profile meaningfully weaker than that of
peer ‘AAA’ sovereigns,” New York-based S&P said today in a
report that maintained its top rating on U.S. long-term debt
while lowering the outlook to “negative” for the first time.  S&P said there’s a one-in-three chance that the rating
might be cut within two years and that its “baseline
assumption” is that Congress and the Obama administration will
come to terms on a plan to reduce record deficits. Treasuries
and the dollar rebounded from early losses following the
statement, while stocks declined. Moody’s Investor Service,
which has a stable outlook on  U.S. debt , today said the U.S.
budget debate is “positive” for the country’s credit.  “For most investors there is nowhere else to put their
money as the U.S. still has the strongest, deepest, most-liquid
markets in the world,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial
economist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “There is no
alternative.”  Speculation on Greece  The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note jumped as
high as 3.45 percent in the minutes after the S&P report from
3.37 percent. The yield was back down to 3.37 percent at 4:27
p.m. as investors focused on speculation that Greece will be
unable to avoid a default, driving them to the relative safety
of U.S. debt. The Standard & Poor’s 500 index was down 1.1
percent at the 4 p.m. close of trading to 1,305.14 after
declining as much as 1.9 percent.  Today’s announcement marks the first time the U.S. credit
outlook has been questioned since 1995 and 1996, when a dispute
between then-President Bill Clinton and House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  led to government shutdowns.  Fitch Ratings  put U.S.
debt on a “negative ratings watch” in November 1995 until
spring 1996, and Moody’s put some U.S. government bonds on
review for a possible downgrade in January 1996.  “We believe there is a material risk that U.S. policy
makers might not reach an agreement on how to address medium-and
long-term budgetary challenges by 2013,” S&P said in its
statement today.  Pressure for Agreement  The action puts pressure on President  Barack Obama  and
House Republicans to come to agreement on plans to reduce the
national debt, which S&P says could rise to 84 percent of gross
domestic product by 2013.  “S&P’s outlook certainly adds to motivation in  Washington 
to confront our fiscal challenges,” said  Tony Fratto , who
served as a White House and U.S. Treasury official under
President  George W. Bush . “If economic authorities here fail to
put in place a credible deficit reduction plan over the next two
years, the concern is justified.”  Austan Goolsbee , Obama’s chief economic adviser, rejected
the S&P’s negative outlook, calling it a “political judgment”
that he said doesn’t deserve “too much weight.”  “They are saying their political judgment is that over the
next two years they didn’t see a political agreement” to reduce
long-term deficits, Goolsbee, chairman of the Council of
Economic Advisers, told Bloomberg Television’s InBusiness with
Margaret Brennan. “I don’t think that the S&P’s political
judgment is right.”  $4 Trillion  Obama has proposed cutting $4 trillion in cumulative
deficits within 12 years through a combination of spending cuts
and tax increases. The administration is resisting Republican
calls for swifter cuts, while also pushing for a set of rules to
enforce spending reductions over time.  Goolsbee said Obama and Republican congressional leaders
are “pretty close” in the deficit reduction targets they have
announced. Each has set a $4 trillion target, though  House
Republicans  have a timeline of 10 years and the White House
proposal would cumulatively cut that amount over 12 years.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor called the S&P warning
“a wake-up call for those in Washington asking Congress to
blindly increase the debt limit.”  S&P’s negative outlook “makes clear that the debt-limit
increase proposed by the Obama administration must be
accompanied by meaningful fiscal reforms that immediately reduce
federal spending and stop our nation from digging itself further
into debt,” the Virginia Republican said in a statement.  Spending, Taxes  S&P said it wasn’t taking a stand on the right mix of
spending and revenue measures, saying only that any agreement
must win the acceptance of a “cross section of leaders in both
political parties” to be credible.  Sovereign  credit quality  has gained prominence as European
countries from  Greece  to Portugal struggle to finance their
debt. The Group of 20 nations named the U.S. as one of seven
large economies that will face deeper scrutiny so their politics
don’t derail a global expansion.  Overseas investors hold about half of the roughly $9
trillion in outstanding marketable U.S. debt, including $1.2
trillion held by  China . Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
has said the U.S. shouldn’t be borrowing “from the Chinese”
and other foreign investors to finance tax cuts for the
wealthiest Americans.  Maintaining investor confidence overseas will be a question
of political credibility rather than solvency for the U.S., said
 Lena Komileva , global head of G10 strategy at Brown Brothers
Harriman & Co in  London .  Lagging Behind  “In the relative universe of sovereign credits, investors
are likely to view that the current episode of U.S. actions
lagging behind market expectations as transitory which will keep
U.S. risk premia contained,” Komileva said. “The euro remains
the epicenter of global systemic risk.”  S&P didn’t mention the $14.29 trillion debt ceiling among
the risks affecting the U.S. outlook, and it noted that the U.S.
has “unique external flexibility” because the dollar is the
world’s most-used currency. The ratings company focused on the
political calendar, saying that if current budget negotiations
fail, it might not be possible to get an agreement until at
least the 2014 budget cycle.  Borrowing Limit  The Treasury Department has said the borrowing limit will
be reached no later than May 16, at which point it will turn to
emergency measures that provide borrowing room through about
July 8. Republican leaders in Congress have said they won’t back
increasing the debt ceiling unless Obama agrees to more specific
steps to trim the  budget deficit , estimated to top $1.6 trillion
this year.  Alan Krueger, the Treasury’s former chief economist and an
economics professor at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey , said
the record of S&P during the financial crisis has watered down
the impact of its pronouncements on the safety of U.S. debt.  “The surprise to me is that the markets paid as much
attention to S&P as they have,” Krueger said. “S&P has no
private information, and their track record and judgment have
been dismal.”  S&P was too influenced by  Wall Street , had insufficient
resources and used outdated models to grade mortgage securities
that blew up when the U.S. housing market collapsed in 2007, the
Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations said in an April
2010 report.  “Clearly, the U.S. fiscal situation is unsustainable
unless a large, multiyear fiscal tightening is implemented,”
economists at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., including Jan Hatzius,
said in a research note. “However, there is no information in
today’s report about the fiscal situation that was not already
known. Academic research has generally found that rating-agency
actions lag market pricing, rather than lead it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rebecca Christie in Washington at  rchristie4@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  