-- 
U.S. Stocks Slump as S&P Cuts Nation’s Long-Term Credit Outlook

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h   a n d   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 
2011-04-18T20:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/stock-index-futures-fall-citigroup-texas-instruments-drop-before-reports.html
U.S. stocks slumped, sending
benchmark indexes to their biggest declines in a month, after
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service cut the nation’s long-term
credit outlook to negative.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  sank at
least 2.1 percent to help pace the declines in the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average . The Morgan Stanley Cyclical Index dropped
1.2 percent as 26 of its 30 stocks tumbled.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) 
and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  dropped more than 1.4 percent amid concern
that  China ’s efforts to cool inflation will hurt the economy.  The S&P 500 declined 1.1 percent to 1,305.14 at 4 p.m. in
New York, its biggest retreat since March 16. The Dow average
tumbled 140.24 points, or 1.1 percent, to 12,201.59.  “There are a lot of structural issues that need to be
dealt with,” said  Mike Ryan , the New York-based chief
investment strategist for Wealth Management Americas at UBS
Financial Services Inc., which oversees $741 billion. “Anytime
you see anything that suggests that the rating could be subject
to downgrade, it’s perceived negatively. If this were to raise
funding costs for the government, then it would weigh on
economic prospects. It’s clearly not positive for companies.”  The  S&P 500  had rallied 4.9 percent this year through April
15 amid higher-than-estimated corporate earnings and government
stimulus measures. The Fed and U.S. agencies have lent, spent or
guaranteed about $8.2 trillion to lift the economy from the
worst slump since the Great Depression, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Negative’  S&P put a “negative” outlook on the U.S. AAA credit
rating, assigning a one-in-three chance of a ratings cut in the
next two years, because of rising budget deficits and debt.  “We believe there is a material risk that U.S. policy
makers might not reach an agreement on how to address medium-and
long-term budgetary challenges by 2013,” New York-based S&P
said in a report today. “If an agreement is not reached and
meaningful implementation does not begin by then, this would in
our view render the U.S. fiscal profile meaningfully weaker than
that of peer ‘AAA’ sovereigns.”  Under President  Barack Obama ’s fiscal year 2012 budget,
released in February, the total debt subject to the ceiling
would be $20.8 trillion in 2016. The plan  House Republicans 
approved April 15, written by Budget Committee ChairmanPaul Ryan of  Wisconsin , would need a debt ceiling of at least $19.5
trillion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Government.  ‘Fiscal Destiny’  “This is another indication of the need for the U.S. to
better control its fiscal destiny, both for its sake and that of
the global economy,” said Mohamed El-Erian, chief executive
officer at  Newport Beach , California-based Pacific Investment
Management Co., the world’s biggest manager of bond funds.
“Absent credible medium-term fiscal reform, every segment of
U.S. society would be faced with higher borrowing costs, a
weaker dollar and a less bright outlook for employment,
investment and growth.”  Barton Biggs, the hedge fund manager who bought stocks when
the market bottomed in March 2009, said he’s still bullish on
equities after S&P revised its credit outlook on the U.S.  “Have I changed my net long? Not really,” Biggs, who runs
New York-based Traxis Partners LP, said in an interview today
Bloomberg Television’s “Street Smart” with  Carol Massar  and
 Matt Miller . “Am I more disquieted than I was on Friday? Yeah,
I guess I am.” U.S. indexes fell after the S&P made its
announcement, which “immediately sends a warning to the
politicians that there’s going to be dire consequences unless
they get their acts together. We have a system of government
that is painful but in the long run does the right things.”  Industrial Companies Slump  Industrial companies in the S&P 500 fell 1.3 percent.
Caterpillar, the world’s largest maker of construction
equipment, dropped 3.1 percent to $103.90. United Technologies
slid 2.1 percent to $81.70.  Energy producers in the S&P 500 fell 1.5 percent, the
biggest decline within 10 industries. Exxon slumped 1.4 percent
to $83.10 and Chevron declined 1.6 percent to $104.50. Oil fell
for the first time in four days in New York after  Saudi Arabia ,
the world’s biggest exporter, said the global market has
adequate crude supplies.  Gap Inc. (GPS)  slumped 3 percent to $21.79 after Goldman Sachs
reduced its rating on the shares to “sell” from “neutral”
and said it sees long-term declines in comparable-store sales.
Bank of America Corp. also reduced its recommendation, cutting
the shares to “neutral” from “buy.”  China  The MSCI All-Country World Index of shares in 45 countries
tumbled 1.6 percent and the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index
of raw materials retreated 0.9 percent. China increased banks’
reserve requirements to lock up cash and cool inflation, and
central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said monetary tightening
will continue for “some time.”  Reserve ratios will rise a half point from April 21, the
People’s Bank of China said on its  website  yesterday, pushing
the requirement to a record 20.5 percent for the biggest
lenders. The move came less than two weeks after an interest-
rate increase. Zhou sees no “absolute” limit on how high
reserve requirements can go, he said April 16.  Community Health Systems Inc. (CYH)  slumped 4.4 percent to
$30.50. The hospital operator said it is now offering $6 in cash
for  Tenet Healthcare Corp. (THC)  Its previous offer was $5 in cash and
$1 in stock. Tenet declined 2.6 percent to $6.49.  U.S. stocks may drop as the S&P 500 gathers downward
momentum, dragging the gauge to the next support level of about
1,275, according to Credit Suisse Group AG. The moving average
convergence/divergence, or MACD, indicator -- a measure used to
identify changes to stocks’ momentum or direction -- has fallen
since April 7, when the S&P 500 reached 1,333.51.  “Bearish medium-term momentum forces us to remain wary of
an eventual break lower,” David Sneddon, the London-based head
of technical analysis at Credit Suisse, wrote in a report to
investors today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rita Nazareth in  Sao Paulo  at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net ;
Inyoung Hwang in  New York  at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Regan at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net  