-- 
U.S. Supreme Court Doesn't Act on Virginia Bid to Scuttle Health-Care Law

-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 
2011-04-18T14:25:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/supreme-court-declines-to-act-on-virginia-bid-for-fast-track-health-ruling.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  deferred
taking action on a bid by Virginia’s attorney general for fast-
track consideration of the state’s challenge to President Barack Obama’s health-care overhaul.  Virginia, one of 27 states that say the measure is
unconstitutional, is urging the justices to take the unusual
step of scheduling arguments without waiting for rulings by the
four appeals courts that are poised to consider the law.  The case was on a list of petitions for review the justices
were scheduled to consider at a private conference last week.
The justices resolved most of those cases in a list of orders
released today in Washington. They will release more orders a
week from today.  Attorney General Kenneth Cuccinelli of  Virginia  said in an
interview last week that the petition was a long shot. He argued
in court papers that the dispute “is of imperative national
importance requiring immediate determination in this court.”  The states say Congress overstepped its authority by
requiring Americans to either obtain insurance or pay a penalty.  The step sought by Virginia, known as certiorari before
judgment, is one the court has taken only a handful of times,
including its 1974 decision ordering President  Richard Nixon  to
turn over Oval Office tape recordings and its 1952 ruling
blocking President Harry S Truman from seizing the nation’s
steel mills.  The Obama administration argued that the health-care
dispute doesn’t rise to that level of urgency, in part because
the disputed provision doesn’t take effect until 2014.  No Urgency  “The constitutionality of the minimum coverage provision
is undoubtedly an issue of great public importance,” acting
U.S. Solicitor General Neal Katyal argued in court papers.
“This case is not, however, one of the rare cases that
justifies deviation from normal appellate practice and requires
immediate determination in this court.”  U.S. District Judge Henry Hudson ruled in December that
Congress’s authority over interstate commerce didn’t give it the
power to enact the insurance mandate. A federal appeals court
based in Richmond, Virginia, is scheduled to hear the Obama
administration’s appeal of that ruling May 10 -- alongside an
appeal of a different judge’s decision upholding the law.  Another appeals court, based in Cincinnati, will consider
the issue June 1, and a third, based in Atlanta, will hear
arguments June 8 in a case involving the other 26 states
challenging the law. An appeals court in  Washington  will
consider the matter later this year.  Commerce Clause  The Supreme Court hasn’t directly considered a challenge to
Congress’s power under the Constitution’s commerce clause since
 John Roberts  became chief justice in 2005.  Opponents say the health plan is unlike anything the
Supreme Court has ever upheld because the law would require
people to take action: either buy health insurance or pay a
fine. Hudson said no Supreme Court or appeals court ruling
authorizes Congress to “compel an individual to involuntarily
enter the stream of commerce” by buying something.  The Obama administration argues that people who would opt
not to buy insurance without the mandate will affect interstate
commerce eventually -- and potentially impose costs on the
government, insurers and hospitals -- when they seek emergency
room or other medical services.  The administration also contends that the individual
mandate is essential to the law’s goal of increasing health-care
availability and affordability.  The government says that, without such a rule, people could
forgo buying insurance until they became sick, at which point
the new law would require insurers to provide coverage. The
effect would be to eventually drive insurers out of business,
the administration says.  The Supreme Court case is Virginia ex rel. Cuccinelli v.
Sebelius, 10-1014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 