-- 
Synthes Confirms Takeover Talks With Johnson & Johnson as Shares Increase

-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y   a n d   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 
2011-04-18T20:25:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/synthes-confirms-it-s-in-talks-with-j-j-on-merger-no-certainty-on-outcome.html
Synthes Inc. (SYST)  said it’s in talks
about a possible takeover by  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , potentially the
biggest deal in J&J’s 125-year history as it seeks to recover
from pulling more than 50 products off the market since the
start of 2010.  Synthes rose 7.80 Swiss francs, or 5.6 percent, to 146.50
francs at the 5:30 p.m. close of Zurich trading, giving the
company a market value of 17.4 billion francs ($19.4 billion).
Synthes doesn’t intend to provide more information until a
definitive agreement has been reached or talks have been
terminated, the  West Chester , Pennsylvania-based company said
today in a statement.  Buying Synthes, the biggest maker of devices to treat bone
fractures and trauma, would end months of speculation about
talks between J&J and U.K. device maker Smith & Nephew Plc.
Synthes would give  New Brunswick , New Jersey-based J&J a line of
hip screws, surgical power tools and instruments to treat spinal
and soft-tissue injuries that had $3.69 billion in 2010 sales,
boosting the U.S. company’s share of the market for trauma care.  “If I were J&J, I would rather buy Synthes,” said Lisa Bedell Clive, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein Ltd. in
 London , in a phone interview today. “It’s the chance to become
the market leader in trauma,” which has more long-term growth
and profit margin potential than replacement hips and knees.  Deal Premiums  A deal for 140 francs to 160 francs a share, representing a
premium of 8 percent to 23 percent, would be “reasonable”
based on previous medical technology deals, Clive said. A
purchase by J&J would be “challenging” given antitrust
concerns and would limit the chance of a large acquisition
premium, she said.  Smith & Nephew, which had been considered by J&J as a
potential takeover target according to people familiar with the
situation, fell 21 pence, or 3 percent, to 675.5 pence in London
trading. It was the stock’s biggest single-day decline in three
months.  A takeover would burden J&J, the world’s second-biggest
maker of health-care products after  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) , with another
business grappling with recalls and charges of pushing dangerous
products. Chief Executive Officer William C. Weldon is already
managing recalls, a U.S. probe of J&J’s consumer manufacturing
and more than 600 lawsuits tied to faulty artificial hips.  ‘Fair Argument’  “You could make a fair argument it’s not the right time to
expand,” said Mark Bussard, an analyst at Baltimore-based T.
Rowe Price Group Inc., which held 21 million J&J shares in
December, before the talks were announced today. “If I were on
their board, I might be asking, ‘Why don’t we spend the next
year getting our house in order, and then talk about a $20
billion acquisition?’”  William Price, a J&J spokesman, declined to comment in an
e-mail today. J&J slipped 10 cents to $60.46 at 4:01 p.m. in New
York Stock Exchange composite trading. The stock has declined
7 percent in the last 12 months, as the Standard & Poor’s 500
Health Care Index rose by 5.7 percent.  J&J, the world’s biggest maker of artificial hips, reported
a drop in joint-implant revenue in last year’s fourth quarter,
hurt by a decline in medical procedures and a recall of 93,000
artificial hips.  The U.S. company’s recalls include almost 200 million
packages of Tylenol, Motrin and other over-the-counter
medications. Its DePuy unit has also withdrawn 93,000 hip
implants that failed at higher-than-expected rates, forcing
repeat surgeries.  Consent Decree  The company’s McNeil Consumer Healthcare unit signed a
consent decree on March 10 giving the U.S. Food & Drug
Administration expanded oversight of three manufacturing plants
for five years, following recalls of over-the-counter drugs with
musty odors or incorrect ingredients. The settlement doesn’t
preclude future criminal charges, the agency said at the time.  That makes timing difficult for pursuing a big deal, said
 Erik Gordon , a business professor at the  University of Michigan 
in  Ann Arbor  who studies the biomedical industry.  Synthes recalled spinal implants in 2009 after reports that
the Synex II Central Body components had failed in six people,
leading to pain and loss of height for some, the company said in
a Nov. 4, 2009, statement. The FDA said the devices could pose
an “imminent hazard” to patients’ health.  Synex Implants  The company had produced “thousands” of Synex implants
that caused no problems, Gilgian Eisner, a spokesman for Synthes
in Solothurn,  Switzerland , said in a phone interview yesterday.
No deaths were reported and the recall didn’t require the
removal of devices that were already implanted if they didn’t
prompt complaints, he said. The company is developing a
replacement for the device.  Synthes is also in talks to sell its Norian unit, which
pleaded guilty in November to one felony and 110 misdemeanor
counts for conducting an unauthorized trial of its bone-mending
cement products, Norian XR and Norian SRS.  To be sure, J&J and Synthes aren’t the only device makers
to pull products and face lawsuits. Joint-implant makers  Stryker
Corp. (SYK)  and  Zimmer Holdings Inc. (ZMH)  and  Medtronic Inc. (MDT) , the biggest
maker of defibrillators and pacemakers, also faced recalls in
recent years, the University of Michigan’s Gordon said.  Market Share  An acquisition of Synthes would allow J&J to double its
market share in spinal care to 30 percent, making it the second-
biggest behind Medtronic, Carla Baenziger, an analyst with Bank
Vontobel AG in Zurich, wrote in a note. J&J would also become
the market leader in trauma with market share of about 57
percent, up from 5 percent now, she said.  Synthes traces its roots to a 1958 venture by four Swiss
surgeons, according to its website. Synthes Chairman Hansjoerg Wyss founded the company in the U.S., where he still resides.  In February 1999, the company, then closely held, merged
with Swiss medical equipment maker Stratec Holding AG to become
the market leader in bone-trauma devices. The combined company
became known as Synthes-Stratec Inc. At the time, Synthes had
headquarters in Pennsylvania and  Canada , while Stratec had been
publicly traded on the Swiss stock exchange since 1996.  The company acquired closely held Mathys Medizinaltechnik
AG in 2003 to expand in Europe and  Asia . Synthes’s headquarters
remain in the U.S., while its stock is traded in Zurich. Its
European headquarters are in Solothurn.  The company generated $3.69 billion in revenue in 2010, an
increase of 77 percent in five years. Its net income more than
doubled in that period, to $907.7 million last year.  Wyss, 75, is the second-richest Swiss person with $6.4
billion in assets, according to Forbes magazine. The former
Synthes chief executive controlled almost 48 percent of company
shares along with the Wyss Family Trusts at the end of 2009,
according to Bloomberg data.  Wyss has never said whether he wants to sell or what his
plans are for his stake, said Eisner, the Synthes spokesman in
Solothurn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  