-- 
Syrian Military Response to Protest in Homs Leaves at Least 10 People Dead

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-04-19T11:45:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/syrian-activists-begin-sit-in-after-clashes-leave-12-dead.html
Syrian activists said at least 18
protesters have died in clashes in the three days since
President Bashar al-Assad ordered the Cabinet to make changes
aimed at calming dissent. The government blamed terrorists for
the violence, saying a general and three relatives were killed.  Authorities moved to break up more than 20,000 activists
holding a sit-in overnight in a square in Homs to demand the
release of detainees and the departure of security forces from
the city,  Syria ’s third-largest. Gunfire was heard near the
site, and there were at least 10 casualties, an activist, Omar
Adalbi, told  Al Jazeera . Ammar Qurabi, head of Syria’s  National
Organization for Human Rights , said there were four casualties,
including at least one death, when police broke up the sit-in.  “The issue is not about terrorism, but about dignity,”
the country’s state-appointed  Sunni Muslim  mufti, Ahmad Hassoun,
said in a speech to followers that was televised today by  Al
Arabiya , which said the cleric spoke two weeks ago.  Syria is the latest Middle Eastern country to be hit by the
wave of uprisings that ousted long-time rulers in Egypt and
 Tunisia , and sparked an armed conflict in  Libya . Assad’s regime
is an ally of  Iran  and a power broker in neighboring Lebanon,
where it supports Hezbollah, a Shiite Muslim group that has a
guerrilla army.  ‘Not Enough’  “It appears that government concessions are not enough,”
 Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-based
Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis, said today
in a phone interview. “There is a little bit of give by the
government but then the protesters want a bit more and it keeps
going in that cycle, so there is no true end in sight. It’s
anybody’s guess where this is going to go.”  Anti-government protesters have held demonstrations for the
past five weeks and clashed with Syrian security forces on
Fridays after the weekly Muslim prayers.  The protests yesterday followed clashes a day earlier in
which at least 17 people died in Homs, home to one of the
country’s two oil refineries, and Latakia, according to Qurabi,
who spoke by phone from Cairo today.  Brigadier General Abdo Khodr Tallawi, his two sons and a
nephew were assassinated by criminal gangs in Homs, and groups
of terrorists attacked security forces, an Interior Ministry
spokesman said on state television. The broadcaster aired video
from a morgue showing the bodies of the officer and his sons,
which bore stab wounds.  No Motorbikes  The ministry spokesman said the officials would do
everything to ensure stability and called on residents to
denounce terrorist groups. The ministry has prevented motorbikes
from entering Homs in an attempt to halt violence in the city,
the state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  reported.  Clashes erupted in Talbiseh April 17 during a funeral,
while in Homs security forces fired on protesters as they tried
to smash the head of a statue of former President Hafez Al- Assad, Qurabi said yesterday. On April 16, Assad ordered the
government to prepare to lift a state of emergency that began in
1963, a key demand of protesters.  At least 130 people have been killed in the unrest that
started in mid-March, according to  Human Rights Watch . The New
York-based organization has said Syrian security and
intelligence services tortured protesters who have been detained
and that it is impossible to verify how many remain in
detention. Activists say the number killed exceeds 200.  Began in Daraa  The unrest began in the southern province of Daraa last
month. Protests have also spread to Qamishli in the north, the
coastal city of Banias, in addition to Aleppo, and suburbs of
the capital, Damascus. There are 20 people missing in the
northwestern port city of Latakia and an unspecified number in
Homs, Qurabi said.  The turmoil has posed the most serious challenge to Assad,
who inherited power from his father 11 years ago. He told the
newly appointed Cabinet in the April 16 meeting that plans to
lift the state of emergency, which suspends many constitutional
protections, must be completed by next week at the latest.  “When this package of laws is passed, there will no longer
be a need to organize demonstrations in Syria,” Assad told the
Cabinet. He said the Interior Ministry shouldn’t “tolerate any
act of sabotage” after the law is changed.  Assad has accused foreign-led conspirators of taking
advantage of the unrest to undermine Syria, mostly due to its
support for anti-Israel groups. Assad’s Baath Party has been in
power since 1963. Syrian state TV has accused radical Salafists
of being involved in the protests. Salafist Muslims promote what
they perceive as the pure form of Sunni Islam as practiced by
the  Prophet Muhammad  and his companions.  Assad issued a decree on April 14 approving a new
government under former Agriculture Minister Adel Safar, after
the protests intensified.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 