-- 
Taylor Bean Jury Weighs Ex-Chairman’s Role in Fraud Case

-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 
2011-04-18T20:49:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/u-s-makes-final-arguments-to-jury-in-taylor-bean-fraud-case.html
The case against  Lee Farkas , the
ex-chairman of Taylor, Bean & Whitaker Mortgage Corp. and
accused mastermind in a “stunning”  mortgage fraud , ended with
prosecutors saying he stole millions of dollars out of greed and
his lawyer saying Farkas is innocent while others made mistakes.  Farkas and the government, which for the first time used
the figure of $3 billion to describe the size of the fraud, made
final arguments to the jury today in federal court in
Alexandria, Virginia. Later, jurors began weighing whether
Farkas is guilty of 14 counts of conspiracy and bank, wire and
 securities fraud .  Assistant U.S. Attorney Charles Connolly told the jury that
Farkas used his employees,  Taylor Bean  and the defunct  Colonial
Bank  to carry out one of the largest and longest-running bank
fraud schemes in the country.  “It is simply stunning,” said Connolly, adding that Farkas
took more than $30 million from Taylor Bean for his own use. “He
did it out of greed. Without TBW, Lee Farkas couldn’t live the
lifestyle he wanted.”  Farkas, 58, is charged with orchestrating a fraud involving
fake mortgage assets that duped some of the country’s largest
financial institutions, targeted the federal bank bailout
program and contributed to the failure of Montgomery, Alabama-
based Colonial Bank.  If convicted of the single conspiracy charge, Farkas faces
as long as 30 years in prison.  Two Dozen Witnesses  Prosecutors spent eight days laying out the allegations for
jurors. The government called almost two dozen witnesses,
including officials at  Freddie Mac ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)  Six of those who testified were former
colleagues or associates of Farkas who had pleaded guilty to
conspiracy charges.  Bruce Rogow, one of Farkas’s lawyers, said in his closing
argument that those who pleaded guilty “believed in their heart
of hearts that they didn’t do anything wrong” and were under
pressure from the government to plead.  “When you take a look, the only common sense conclusion
is that all of these people were working together, not on a
criminal conspiracy, but working together with Colonial Bank to
have Taylor Bean succeed,” Rogow said.  Farkas put on four witnesses, including himself.  Freddie Mac Loans  Taylor Bean, based in Ocala,  Florida , was servicing more
than 500,000 mortgages including $51 billion of Freddie Mac
loans when it collapsed in August 2009, according to court
records.  Prosecutors allege the fraud began in 2002 when Farkas had
trouble meeting operating expenses, such as payroll and
mortgage-loan servicing payments owed to the government-
sponsored Freddie Mac and Ginnie Mae.  With assistance from officials at Colonial Bank, at one
time among the country’s 50 biggest, Farkas masked shortfalls of
about $15 million a day by moving money from another Taylor Bean
account into the company’s master account, then returning the
money later in the day, according to a related lawsuit by the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  By December 2003, Taylor Bean was overdrawing its account
by about $150 million a day, the SEC said.  Farkas, in about four hours of testimony, denied ordering
anyone to move money among the Taylor Bean accounts and said he
and Taylor Bean officials didn’t have authority to do it.  The case is U.S. v. Farkas, 10-cr-00200, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of  Virginia  (Alexandria).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Schoenberg in  Washington  at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 