-- 
U.S. Attorney Bharara Seeks to Toss Madoff Investor’s Settlement Claim

-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r   a n d   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 
2011-04-18T19:01:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/u-s-attorney-bharara-seeks-to-toss-madoff-investor-s-settlement-claim.html
U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara in
 Manhattan  seeks to dismiss a claim by an investor in Bernard Madoff’s defunct investment company to part of a $7.2 billion
settlement.  U.S. prosecutors and the trustee liquidating Madoff’s firm
settled a suit against the estate of billionaire Jeffry Picower
for $7.2 billion in December. Asking a Manhattan judge to
dismiss the investor’s claim, Bharara said he was seeking a
final order of forfeiture to close the case.  The investor holding up closure of the case, Adele Fox, has
no “property interest” in the Picower funds and hasn’t yet
proved her “victimhood,” Bharara said in the April 15 filing
in U.S. District Court in Manhattan.  “Her attempt to have the court mandate the allocation of
forfeited funds among victims in advance of that determination
is a naked end-run around” legal limitations, he said in the
filing.  The Picower settlement was the largest for trustee  Irving Picard , who is suing more than 1,000 banks, individuals, feeder
funds and others he claims profited from Madoff’s fraud. So far
he’s recovered about $10 billion.  Seeking Role  Picower began investing with Madoff in the late 1970s,
controlling dozens of accounts. He had a heart attack and
drowned in his swimming pool in  Palm Beach ,  Florida .  The December settlement “honors what Jeffry would have
wanted,”  Barbara Picower  said at the time in a statement by her
lawyer, William Zabel of Schulte Roth & Zabel LLP.  Seeking a role in the case, Fox said the judge may allow
her to intervene if she has a claim that shares a question of
law with the main action. According to Bharara, who is probing
the Madoff fraud, she didn’t assert a claim that has anything in
common with the government’s forfeiture claims and her
intervention may work against “efficient administration” of
criminal law.  Investors seeking to recoup money without the trustee’s
help unsuccessfully challenged a $220 million settlement between
Picard and the family of Norman F. Levy, saying the trustee
failed to disclose the scale of Levy’s dealings with Madoff. A
bankruptcy judge ruled on March 30 that the deal will stand.  At the time of his 2008 arrest, Madoff’s account statements
reflected 4,900 accounts with $65 billion in nonexistent
balances. Investors lost about $20 billion in principal.  The main case is Securities Investor Protection Corp. v.
Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan). The
U.S. case is U.S. v. $7.2 Billion on deposit at JP Morgan Chase
Bank, 10-cv-9398, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New
York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 