-- 
U.S. Offers $2.1 Billion Backing for Solar Power Plant

-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 
2011-04-18T21:08:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/u-s-offers-2-1-billion-backing-for-solar-trust-s-california-power-plant.html
The U.S. offered a $2.1 billion
loan guarantee to help  Solar Trust of America LLC  build the
world’s largest solar-energy generating station in Southern
 California .  The project will have two units that combined will produce
484 megawatts of electricity to be transported over an eight-
mile transmission line near Blythe, California, about 230 miles
(370 kilometers) east of  Los Angeles , according to an  Energy
Department  statement. The U.S. guarantee will help build these
units in the first phase of the project.  “This is the largest amount offered to a solar project
through the loans program office,” Energy Secretary Steven Chu
said today on a conference call.  Solar Trust’s project will generate more solar power than
all other solar-concentrating projects in the world combined,
Uwe T. Schmidt, the chairman and chief executive officer of the
Oakland, California-based company, said on the call. Blythe will
use mirrors to concentrate the sun’s energy rather than solar
panels that convert light directly into electricity.  The project will create more than 1,000 construction jobs
and avoid more than 710,000 tons of carbon-dioxide emissions
each year, according to the statement.  The two units are part of a larger project capable of
producing 1,000 megawatts of electricity.  Southern California 
Edison Co., a subsidiary of  Edison International (EIX)  of Rosemead,
California, will buy all of the power from the facility.  Solar Trust has built roads, water access routes and
fencing on the site. The company plans to start building the
project in a few months.  “When we rev up the great American energy machine, we can
out-compete any other nation,” Chu said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Larry Liebert at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net  