-- 
Homebuilder Confidence Fell This Month on Sales Outlook, NAHB Index Shows

-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 
2011-04-18T14:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/u-s-homebuilder-confidence-declined-in-april-on-residential-sales-outlook.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
fell in April, led by a decline in the outlook for sales, a sign
the residential construction market may languish near record-low
levels.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo
sentiment index declined to 16 this month from 17 in March, data
from the Washington-based group showed today. A measure of sales
expectations for the next six months dropped to the lowest level
since October, and a gauge of current purchases also fell.
Readings below 50 mean more respondents said conditions were
poor.  Housing construction is one of the weakest parts of the
economic recovery as a glut of distressed properties on the
market competes with new homes. The prospect of more
foreclosures in the pipeline, declining prices and an
 unemployment rate  forecast to average 8.7 percent this year
means any recovery in housing may take years to develop.  “Homebuilders are finding it difficult to compete with
deeply discounted existing properties,” said  Michelle Meyer , a
senior economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in  New York .
“The backdrop for builders is still negative.”  The measure, which has been at 16 in five of the last six
months, was less than the median forecast of 17 in a Bloomberg
News survey. Projections among the 47 economists surveyed ranged
from 16 to 20.  The gauge, which was first published in January 1985,
reached a record low of 8 in January 2009, and averaged 54 in
the five years before the recession began in December 2007.  Sales Expectations  The builders group’s index of sales expectations for the
next six months decreased to 23 from 26, while a gauge of
current single-family home sales declined to 16 from 17, the
report showed. The index of buyer traffic rose to 13 from 12
last month.  “The spring home-buying season is getting off to a slow
start due to persistent concerns about home values as more
foreclosures seem to be hitting the market, increasingly
restrictive lending requirements for home buyers and builders,
and the slow pace of economic recovery,”  David Crowe , NAHB
chief economist, said in a statement.  The confidence survey asks builders to characterize current
sales as “good,” “fair” or “poor” and to gauge prospective
buyers’ traffic. It also asks participants to gauge the outlook
for the next six months.  Builders in two of the four regions saw an increase in
confidence this month. The index rose to 20 in the Northeast
from 18, and to 14 in the Midwest from 12. It fell to 15 from 19
in the South and held at 17 in the West.  Housing Starts  The Commerce Department may report tomorrow that housing
starts rose 8.6 percent in March to 520,000 houses at an annual
rate, failing to make up for the 23 percent plunge a month
earlier, according to economists’ forecasts. Starts reached a
record low of 477,000 in April 2009.  New-home sales fell to a record-low annual rate of 250,000
in February, the Commerce Department reported on March 23. The
median price dropped to the lowest level since December 2003.  Sales of existing homes, which make up more than 90 percent
of the market, rose 2.5 percent to a 5 million annual pace in
March, economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the National
Association of Realtors may report in two days. Existing-home
sales have been gaining market share from new homes due to
distressed pricing.  The average rate on a 30-year fixed loan increased to 4.98
percent the week ended April 8, the highest since Feb. 18,
according to the  Mortgage Bankers Association . Borrowing costs
have climbed since reaching 4.21 percent in October, the lowest
since the group’s records began in 1990.  Home Foreclosures  Even with home seizures currently clogging the pipeline as
banks struggle to implement new guidelines, foreclosure filings
will climb about 20 percent in 2011, reaching a peak for the
housing crisis, RealtyTrac said Jan. 13.  KB Home (KBH) , the Los Angeles-based homebuilder that targets
first-time buyers, this month reported a bigger-than-expected
loss for the quarter ended Feb. 28 as orders plunged.  “We do not anticipate a net profit for 2011,” President
and Chief Executive Officer  Jeffrey Mezger  said during a
conference call with analysts on April 5. “The economy is
continuing to improve. Even so, this recovery has yet to include
significant job growth and has not spilled over into housing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 