-- 
Treasuries Advance on Speculation Greece May Default, Tumble in Equities

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-18T21:04:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/u-s-treasuries-climb-amid-falling-stocks-european-debt-crisis-concern.html
Treasuries rose for a second day,
pushing yields on 2- and 10-year notes to three-week lows, as
speculation that  Greece  will be unable to avoid a default and
declines in stocks boosted demand for refuge assets.  U.S. 30- and 10-year securities gained after falling
earlier as  Standard & Poor’s  lowered its outlook for the U.S.
credit rating to negative from stable. The Treasury sold $28
billion in six-month bills at a rate that matched a record low.  “The geopolitical concerns haven’t gone away, and we are
seeing safety flows into Treasuries,” said Russ Certo, a
managing director and co-head of rates trading at Gleacher & Co.
in New York. “As the dust clears, we are in the here and now of
geopolitical concerns rather than the future of uncertainty of
what may happen with ratings.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 3.38 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. They touched 3.36
percent, the lowest since March 24. The 3.625 percent securities
maturing in February 2021 gained 1/4, or $2.50 per $1,000 face
amount, to 102 1/32.  Thirty-year bond yields slipped one basis point to 4.46
percent. The two-year note yield decreased four basis points to
0.65 percent and touched 0.64 percent, the lowest level since
March 24.  Ten-year yields are still down from 3.80 percent a year
ago. They averaged 5.22 percent over the past two decades. The
benchmark notes will yield 3.90 percent at year-end, according
to the median forecast of 73 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  Inflation Gauge  A gauge of inflation expectations that the  Federal Reserve 
uses to help determine monetary policy, the five-year, five-year
forward break-even rate, was at 3.1 percentage points, compared
with 3.28 percentage points on Dec. 15, a 10-month high. The
average for the past five years is 2.78 percentage points.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index sank 1.1 percent, and the
MSCI World Index slid 1.6 percent.  Greek debt surged even as officials said restructuring
isn’t an alternative. Two-year notes increased to 20 percent for
the first time since the 17-nation currency debuted. Portuguese
2- and 10-year yields also reached euro-area records.  Greece’s government asked the  International Monetary Fund 
and the European Union to extend the maturities of all the
country’s debt, the Athens-based Eleftherotypia newspaper said,
without saying where it got the information.  Haven Demand  European Central Bank Council member George Provopoulos
said today that restructuring of Greece’s debt is neither
necessary nor desirable. His comments echoed Finance Minister
 George Papaconstantinou , who said on April 16 that “the pain
and the cost” of restructuring the nation’s debt would be
greater than repaying lenders.  “Any time you have additional information that creates
more uncertainty as it relates to the sovereign-debt crisis,
it’s going to increase demand for safe haven securities,”  said
 James Barnes , a  money manager  in Wyomissing,  Pennsylvania  at
National Penn Investors Trust, which oversees $1 billion in
fixed-income assets.  S&P, citing rising U.S. budget deficits and debt as it
changed the U.S. rating outlook to negative, said there’s “a
material risk that U.S. policy makers might not reach an
agreement on how to address medium- and long-term budgetary
challenges by 2013.” It affirmed the U.S. AAA long-term rating.  “The market doesn’t expect that it is anything that’s
imminent,” said  Martin Mitchell , head government bond trader at
the Baltimore unit of Stifel Nicolaus & Co., a St. Louis-based
brokerage firm. “We can still print our own money, so you can’t
look at the U.S. situation the same way you look at European
sovereigns.”  Debt-Limit Debate  Congress is set to begin debate soon on raising the
government’s $14.29 trillion legal debt limit, which the
Treasury Department predicts will be hit in less than a month.  St. Louis Fed President  James Bullard  said the outlook for
the year remains positive, even after a weaker-than-projected
first quarter and global risks to growth.  “The outlook for the remainder of 2011 remains reasonably
strong,” Bullard said in remarks today in Louisville,  Kentucky .  Bullard has said since February that the Fed should trim
its plan to buy Treasuries amid economic growth.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  and Atlanta Fed
President  Dennis Lockhart  said at a panel discussion in Atlanta
that rising oil prices threaten U.S. growth. Crude oil has
increased 17 percent this year, and May futures traded today at
$107.47 a barrel in New York, down 2 percent.  Six-Month Bills  The Treasury Department’s auction of six-month bills drew a
rate of 0.11 percent, which matched the record-low rate at last
week’s sale. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
4.79, the highest since Jan. 24. Indirect bidders, a category
that includes foreign central banks, bought 45.7 percent of the
bills, the most since March 28.  The government sold $30 billion of three-month bills,
drawing a rate of 0.06 percent. The bid-to-cover ratio was 4.82,
the highest since August 2010, and indirect bidders acquired
33.2 percent, the most in six weeks.  Six- and three-month bill rates have dropped as the
Treasury reduced issuance of shorter-term securities and a
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. fee changed prompted some
investors to stop lending the debt. Six-month rates touched
0.0946 percent, a record low, on April 11. They traded at 0.1027
percent today.  The Fed bought $2 billion of Treasuries due from August
2029 to February 2041 as part of its $600 billion asset-purchase
program to spur economic growth.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  