-- 
Uganda’s Main Opposition Leader Kizza Besigye Re-Arrested During Protest

-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 
2011-04-18T17:01:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/uganda-s-main-opposition-leader-kizza-besigye-re-arrested-during-protest.html
Uganda’s main opposition leader
 Kizza Besigye  was detained in the capital, Kampala, for the
second time in a week while protesting the rising cost of
living, an official from his  Forum for Democratic Change  party
said.  Ugandan authorities apprehended Besigye while he was taking
part in the so-called Walk-to-Work demonstration, Sarah Eperu
spokeswoman for the FDC’s Women’s League, said by phone. Police
didn’t “give a reason why,” she said.  The details of Besigye’s arrest “will be known later,”
Ugandan police spokeswoman Judith Nabakooba said in a phone
interview from Kampala today. “The illegal protests are still
going on and we are trying to contain them,” she said. “People
have been burning tires and throwing stones.”  The protests have been organized to denounce surging prices
for staple foods and gasoline, after inflation in the East
African nation accelerated to 11.1 percent in March, from 6.4
percent a month earlier. A protest on April 11 led to the arrest
of Besigye for blocking traffic. Three days later, at a similar
demonstration, Besigye’s hand was injured after police sprayed
teargas and fired rubber bullets to disperse protesters.  One person died and 11 others were hurt as police fired
tear gas and live ammunition at crowds today, Deutsche Presse-
Agentur reported, citing Red Cross officials.  Besigye, who also heads the four-party Inter-Party
Cooperation group, claimed that a Feb. 18 election he lost to
President Yoweri Museveni was marred by irregularities and he
has called for a new vote.  The demonstrations are illegal because they’re aimed at
ousting the government, the Kampala-based  New Vision  newspaper
reported today, citing Information Minister Kabakumba Masiko.  Uganda , with a population of more than 30 million, is
 Africa ’s largest producer of robusta coffee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  