-- 
Hungarian Central Bank Leaves Main Interest Rate Unchanged for Third Month

-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-04-18T14:44:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/hungarian-central-bank-leaves-main-interest-rate-unchanged-for-third-month.html
Hungary ’s central bank left its
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a third month as expected
after policy makers said inflation risks justify keeping
monetary conditions unchanged for an “extended period.”  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  kept the two-week deposit rate at 6
percent, matching the forecast of all 24 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. Policy makers voted unanimously to keep rates
unchanged, which was the only proposal at today’s meeting,
central bank President Andras Simor said.  “Risks suggest rates could remain on hold, with the
Monetary Council adopting a wait-and-see stance in the coming
months with flat rates,”  Gyorgy Barta , a Budapest-based
economist at CIB Bank, a unit of Intesa Sanpaolo SpA, said in an
e-mail today.  Central bankers across the globe are struggling to curb
accelerating inflation, stoked by food and fuel prices.
Hungary’s accelerating inflation last month was “no surprise”
for the central bank, Simor said, adding that unanchored
inflation expectations may fuel second-round pressures.  Stronger Forint  The forint weakened 0.4 percent to 268.25 per euro today.
The currency gained 1.6 percent against the euro in the
past three months, the second-best performance among more than
20 emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg, behind the
Romanian leu.  The Polish central bank on April 5 raised borrowing costs
for a second month, boosting the benchmark seven-day rate by a
quarter-point to 4 percent. The  European Central Bank  the same
week raised borrowing costs for the first time in almost three
years. Expectations that the rate will be increased by another
half-point in 2011 are “well-founded,” ECB Governing Council
member Ewald Nowotny said on April 16.  Hungarian inflation accelerated for a second month in March
as food prices boosted the index more than economists forecast.
The inflation rate rose to 4.5 percent from 4.1 percent in
February. The central bank’s target is 3 percent.  Core inflation , which strips out volatile energy and food
prices, quickened to an annual 2.5 percent in March from 1.9
percent in February.  Hungary can meet its inflation goal by the end of next year
by keeping borrowing costs unchanged for an “extended period,”
Simor said.  Increasing the rate may be justified if data suggests a
greater pass-through from cost shocks, the Monetary Council
said. Subdued domestic demand may justify cutting the rate in
the mid-term, the statement said.  Gyorgy Kocziszky, dean of the faculty of economics at the
University of Miskolc in eastern Hungary, joined the Monetary
Council’s rate-decision meeting today. Janos Cinkotai, Ferenc Gerhardt and Andrea Bartfai-Mager, other policy makers whom
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s ruling party named to the panel,
voted last month, along with Simor and his two deputies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net 
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  