-- 
Muni Bankruptcy Threat Makes Michigan Train Financial-Emergency SWAT Teams

-- B y   J e f f   G r e e n   a n d   J o n a t h a n   K e e h n e r
-- 
2011-04-18T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/muni-bankruptcy-threat-makes-michigan-train-financial-emergency-swat-teams.html
Michigan  is giving hundreds of
financial professionals and public employees a crash course in
advising troubled municipalities, building an army of emergency
managers that may become a model for other U.S. states.  As many as 400 accountants, lawyers, school employees and
city workers will start classes in Lansing today on topics
including “Dealing with the Unionized Workforce,” navigating
municipal bankruptcy and negotiating contracts for sewer, water
and other utilities. It’s a “rare” example of preparing people
in advance for potential fiscal difficulties, said Michael
Imber, a principal in Grant Thornton LLP’s corporate advisory
and restructuring services group.  “Management is usually in denial and waits until it’s too
late before they reach out, and here was a state saying, ‘We
need help,’” Imber said. He is on the international executive
board of the  Turnaround Management Association  and was among
about 50 initial graduates of Michigan’s February course. “It
enables qualified professionals to walk around cities and towns
in Michigan and say, ‘How can I help?’”  States face projected deficits totaling $112 billion in the
next fiscal year because revenue hasn’t bounced back from the
recession while spending on unemployment and Medicaid has
swelled. Vallejo,  California , the largest municipal bankruptcy
case currently in the courts, sought protection in May 2008. In
Michigan, where unemployment hasn’t been less than 10 percent
since October 2008, manufacturing employment remains more than
400,000  jobs , or 46 percent, below the last peak in 2000.  SWAT Approach  “A SWAT team is an OK way to look at this,” said  Michigan
State University ’s Eric Scorsone, an economist who helped
organize the class with the turnaround association. “This is
coming together on the fly. We’ve had the program for 20 years
without any real training.”  Michigan Governor Rick Snyder, a Republican, signed a law
March 16 granting state-appointed financial managers new powers
that include terminating employee contracts and suspending
collective bargaining for as long as five years. Snyder said the
added restructuring powers will help keep Michigan communities
out of bankruptcy. Enactment of the law came as governors in
Wisconsin and  Ohio  confronted thousands of protesters against
measures aimed at curbing union power and cutting state costs.  Michigan has  emergency managers  running the schools in
Detroit as well as the cities of Pontiac, Ecorse and  Benton
Harbor . Flint, Hamtramck,  Highland Park  and Three Oaks Village
have had managers in the past. Hamtramck has sought to
reorganize under  Chapter 9  of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code , which
the state has refused to permit.  Manager’s Perspective  “The knowledge and expertise from both the private and
public perspective can help an emergency manager do a better
job,” said Joyce Parker, who has been in charge in Ecorse since
November 2009. Public officials can better understand the best
ideas of industry and company experts can learn about government
operating environments and open meetings requirements, she said.  Half of Michigan communities are under financial stress and
as many as a couple dozen may be at a more significant level of
risk, Scorsone said. Two of the nation’s three major automakers,
which are all based in the  Detroit  area, went through bankruptcy
in 2009.  Local governments across the U.S. have eliminated 416,000
jobs from a peak in September 2008. While the recession, the
longest since the Great Depression, ended in June 2009, state-
and local-tax collections have yet to recover to  levels  reached
more than two years ago.  Drawing Corporate Advisers  Michigan’s new approach is among state experiments
attracting the attention of restructuring executives as
corporate work dissipates in the improving economy, said Scott Eisenberg, a managing partner at  Amherst Partners LLC , an
investment bank in Birmingham, Michigan. He helped develop some
of the turnaround association’s initiatives in Lansing.  The classes are taught both by public officials and
restructuring-company executives, said Ed Plawecki Jr., general
counsel and director of government relations at  Stout Risius
Ross Inc. , an investment-banking firm in Southfield, Michigan.
Plawecki is also a former Wayne County commissioner and helps
mediate Detroit police union matters.  “The purpose of this class is to educate, not advocate,”
said Plawecki, who helped organize the program. “We hope to
help officials avoid the requirement for an emergency manager.”  Waiting List  About two-thirds of the participants are from school
districts or municipal governments and the rest are from
businesses, Scorsone said. He said there’s a waiting list of 50
or more for the two-day program. About 90 percent of those
attending are from Michigan, with the others coming mostly from
companies looking for ideas they can use elsewhere, he said.  Other states may start similar programs, with adjustments
to accommodate local laws, as they try to streamline the process
for fixing ailing communities, Imber said. He is part of a Grant
Thornton team advising the Nassau County interim finance
authority, the state-appointed agency that took control of the
suburban  New York  county’s finances in January.  The Michigan law is “credit positive” because it enables
the state to intervene earlier when municipalities are
financially stressed and boosts the powers of emergency
managers, Moody’s Investors Service said March 21. Such steps
may be needed to prevent a Chapter 9 bankruptcy, it said.  Snyder’s  Local Government and School District Fiscal
Accountability Act  also calls for a state financial review if a
municipality defaults on a bond or note payment or  receives  a
long-term debt rating “within or below the BBB category or its
equivalent” by one of the major credit-rating companies.  Lower Fees  Companies expecting fees similar to those collected for
work on corporate restructurings following the 2008 failure of
 Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  will be disappointed, Eisenberg
said. Governments may pay $150 an hour compared with the $250 to
$500 rate received by mid-size firms for corporate work and as
much as $1,000 for larger advisory companies, he said.  Even though only a handful of actual emergency managers may
ultimately be needed in Michigan, the expertise offered by the
two-day program will help advisers, said Imber, who went through
a similar program in February with 50 people.  The private companies will play an important role in state
restructuring, said Joyce, the Ecorse emergency manager. For
example, Southfield-based Plante & Moran PLLC works on
accounting services and  Miller Canfield Paddock & Stone Plc , a
Detroit law firm, provides legal counsel to Ecorse, she said.  “Now we have trained people,” Scorsone said. “They
should be ready to go in at any time.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jeff Green  in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 jgreen16@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Keehner in New York at 
 jkeehner@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net 
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  