-- 
Lira Falls Most in a Month, Stocks Drop on Greece, U.S. Outlook

-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 
2011-04-18T13:35:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/turkish-lira-depreciates-first-day-in-four-as-consumer-confidence-slumps.html
Turkey ’s lira slipped the most in
the most in more than a month and stocks dropped as the U.S.’s
outlook was revised down by  Standard & Poor’s ,  China ’s reserve-
requirement increased and speculation of a debt default by
Greece curbed risk appetite.  The lira weakened 0.9 percent to 1.5266 per dollar at 2:57
p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest intraday retreat since March 15.
The  ISE National 100 index (XU100)  dropped 1.5 percent, the most since
April 8, to 67,431.02. Bonds declined, erasing earlier gains and
lifting the yield on two-year benchmark debt by five basis
points to 8.64 percent, according to the RBS Istanbul Benchmark
Bond Index.  S&P affirmed its AAA long-term and A-1+ short-term
sovereign credit ratings on the U.S. and revised its outlook on
the long-term rating to negative from stable. The euro weakened,
Greek two-year yields rose to a record and stocks fell as the
government in  Athens  denied it’s seeking to restructure debt.
People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said monetary
tightening will continue for “some time,” following
yesterday’s announcement of a half point rise in reserve ratios
from April 21.  “Risk appetite has been weak and the U.S. announcement
exacerbated this,” Levent Guven, currency trader at Turk
Ekonomi Bankasi AS, said in e-mailed comments. “All emerging 
currencies are depreciating and this is all related to risk 
appetite loss.”  Turkish consumer confidence slipped to 93.43 in March from
93.56 a month earlier, the statistics office in Ankara said on
its website today.  “The markets are trying to understand what is happening
with  Greece  and the reports are hurting the euro and the lira,”
Eren Yardimci, a currency trader at Akbank TAS in Istanbul, said
by telephone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  