-- 
LVMH Sales Exceed Analysts’ Estimates on Demand for Leather Luxury Goods

-- B y   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-04-18T16:13:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/lvmh-sales-exceed-analysts-estimates-on-demand-for-leather-luxury-goods.html
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton
SA (MC) , the world’s largest luxury-goods maker, said first-quarter
sales rose 17 percent, beating analysts’ estimates, as wealthy
customers bought more Givenchy handbags and Hublot watches.  Revenue increased to 5.25 billion euros ($7.46 billion)
from 4.47 billion euros a year earlier, the Paris-based company
said today. That compared with the 4.98 billion-euro average
estimate of six analysts compiled by Bloomberg. Excluding
acquisitions and currency shifts, sales climbed 14 percent.  Demand for luxury goods has rebounded since the global
recession of 2009 as wealthy consumers regained confidence and
retailers replenished inventories. LVMH, which has built up a
20.2 stake in  Hermes International (RMS)  SCA, announced in March plans
to acquire  Bulgari SpA (BUL) , the world’s third-largest jeweler, to
double the size of its watch and jewelry unit.  “The group had an excellent start to the year, continuing
the trends seen at the end of 2010,” LVMH said in the
statement. The company aims “to increase once again in 2011,
its leadership of the global high-quality products market.”  LVMH fell 2.25 euros, or 2 percent, to 109.75 euros today
in Paris trading. The sales were announced after markets closed.
The shares have retreated 11 percent this year, valuing the
maker of Dom Perignon champagne at 53.8 billion euros.  Revenue at the fashion and leather-goods unit, LVMH’s
largest, rose 17 percent, the company said, led by growth at the
Louis Vuitton brand. Vuitton may hire as many as 700 leather
workers this year to cope with rising demand, a person familiar
with the plans said in February.  Dior Addict  Watch and jewelry revenue advanced 28 percent. Sales of
wines and spirits gained 20 percent. The quantity of champagne
sold in the quarter rose 8 percent, while Hennessy cognac
reported a 16 percent increase in volume, LVMH said.  Perfume and cosmetics sales advanced 9 percent, boosted by
demand for Dior Addict lipstick and Guerlain’s Shalimar
fragrance, LVMH said. Revenue at the selective-retailing unit,
which includes Sephora and DFS, rose 20 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG cut its LVMH estimates last month after an
earthquake and tsunami in  Japan  left almost 28,000 people dead
or missing and triggered the world’s worst nuclear crisis in a
quarter century. LVMH Chief Executive Officer  Bernard Arnault 
said on March 31 that while the company’s  Tokyo ’s stores were
“less full than usual,” the south and west of the country was
as yet unaffected, expressing optimism for the medium-term.  Japan accounts for about 9 percent of LVMH’s total sales.  Sales in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia  showed “strong
momentum,” the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Andrew Roberts  in Paris at 
 aroberts36@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 