-- 
VW Unveils Sportier Beetle Design Aimed at Winning Male Buyers

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-04-18T12:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/vw-unveils-sportier-beetle-design-aimed-at-winning-male-buyers.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  unveiled a sportier
design for the iconic Beetle to woo American men and broaden the
appeal of the “Love Bug” as VW aims to triple U.S. sales.  The revamped version is wider, has a flatter roofline and
features a roomier interior, the Wolfsburg, Germany-based
automaker said today. The overhauled model comes with a rear
spoiler for the 160-horsepower and 200-horsepower versions.  The updated Beetle “will be so much more masculine,” Soh Weiming, VW’s  China  sales chief, said today in an interview in
 Shanghai . “It will open up a new customer group for us. The
model we have right now is a little bit more feminine but the
new car is exactly the opposite.”  The Beetle’s buyers last year were more than 60 percent
female, the highest rate for any vehicle sold in the U.S.,
according to automotive website truecar.com. VW brought back the
car in 1998 to capitalize on Americans’ nostalgia for the model,
which was featured in films including the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  comedy
series “The Love Bug” as the main character Herbie.  Europe ’s biggest automaker is unveiling the redesigned
Beetle today at events in Shanghai,  New York  and Berlin. China,
the U.S. and Germany are the model’s largest markets. This is
the Beetle’s second overhaul since the original was developed
and built during the 1930s in  Nazi Germany .  “The Beetle was anything but a very masculine car,” said
Kevin Tynan, an automotive analyst at Bloomberg Industries. “It
fostered the perception in the U.S. of VW as a more feminine
brand. VW has some work to do to improve its appeal with male
consumers and it looks as if they’re now addressing the issue.”  Ambience Lighting  The redesigned car, priced at about 17,000 euros ($24,361)
in  Germany , can be ordered with a sound system by Fender Musical
Instruments Corp., fitted with adjustable ambience lighting.  The Beetle’s U.S. buyers were 61 percent female in 2010.
Nissan Motor Co.’s Rogue followed at 56 percent and VW’s Eos
convertible was third at 55 percent, according to truecar.com.
The VW brand doesn’t have any models ranked in the top 20 models
among male purchasers in the U.S.  VW last November showed a silhouette of the revamped Beetle
on  Oprah Winfrey ’s talk show and gave 275 of the cars away to
her studio audience to stoke interest in the model. The new
version, which hits American showrooms in September, may boost
U.S. sales to 30,000 Beetles next year from 20,000 in 2011,
according to automotive website Edmunds.com. The model will be
rolled out in Europe starting in October and reach Asian dealers
by February, VW said.  Beetle Appeal  “The Beetle is unique and its real value goes far beyond
mere sales,” said  Jeremy Anwyl , head of Edmunds.com. “The
trick for the car is to connect with younger drivers. It entails
the option of creating lifetime customers for VW.”  Still, at 17,000 euros, the revamped Beetle is priced above
Bayerische Motoren Werke AG’s Mini model, which starts at 15,550
euros, and  Fiat SpA (F) ’s 500, which sells from 11,400 euros,
according to the companies’ websites. A range of four-cylinder
engines allow the Beetle to reach a maximum speed of 225
kilometers (141 miles) per hour.  The Beetle’s success is key to VW’s plan to boost U.S.
sales to 1 million vehicles, including 200,000 for the Audi
unit, by 2018. The VW brand and Audi delivered about 360,000
cars in the U.S. in 2010. VW, which will open a U.S. plant next
month in Chattanooga,  Tennessee , has a broader goal of
surpassing Toyota Motor Corp. as the world’s largest carmaker.  Ambitious Agenda  “VW has subscribed to an ambitious growth agenda and
progress in the U.S. is absolutely indispensable,” said
 Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for Automotive
Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen  in Germany. “I’m
not convinced though that retro-styling is the best way
forward.”  The Beetle’s share of the U.S. subcompact segment declined
to 7.2 percent last year from 31 percent in 2002, according to
Edmunds.com. Still, the U.S. is the Beetle’s top market,
accounting for half the 1.17 million sold globally since the
reintroduction in 1998.  The original Beetle dates from VW’s creation under the Nazi
regime of  Adolf Hitler  in the 1930s. Ferdinand Porsche, the
grandfather of VW’s current chairman Ferdinand Piech and VW’s
first leader, was ordered by Hitler to develop a “people’s car”
affordable to average working citizens.  Economic Miracle  Production of the vehicle started in 1938 at a factory
about 170 kilometers (106 miles) west of Berlin, copying the
vertical integration of a  Ford Motor Co. (F)  plant. The surrounding
town built to support the factory was named Wolfsburg in 1945
after a nearby castle, and became VW’s headquarters.  The start of series production in 1945 contributed to
Germany’s so-called economic miracle during the 1960s which made
VW a household name. Some 21.5 million of the original model
were built by the time the last car rolled off the assembly line
in Puebla,  Mexico , in 2003. Volkswagen produced both the old
version and the new one for a number of years.  “VW’s history stems largely from the original Beetle which
was one of the most successful cars of all time,” said Michael Tyndall, a London-based analyst at  Barclays Capital . “The
Beetle isn’t particularly significant for volumes or
profitability but it’s an important image-builder.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  