-- 
Warren Says Consumer Bureau to Release Model Mortgage Forms

-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 
2011-04-18T19:08:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/warren-says-consumer-bureau-will-release-model-mortgage-forms.html
Elizabeth Warren , the Obama
administration adviser charged with setting up the U.S. Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau, said the agency will soon release
model mortgage forms that may become the basis of new
regulations on home finance.  “We’ve come up with a couple of prototypes,” Warren said
today during a meeting with community bankers in Louisville,
 Kentucky . “In a few weeks, we’ll be ready to share those
prototypes.”  Warren, 61, has made simplification of mortgage disclosure
forms a centerpiece of her work at the new agency, which is
scheduled to officially begin work in July. Warren has said that
many of the forms now in use are duplicative.  Warren has touted mortgage disclosure as a way community
banks can make inroads against larger rivals like  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  If disclosure is simpler and
less costly, community banks can compete based on their close
ties to customers, she said.  “A community banking model works for American families,”
Warren said during the session.  Warren highlighted how the new agency has built outreach to
community banks into its initial structure, with a “box” on its
organizational chart for a liaison to community banks and other
small firms.  ‘In Our Face’  “We don’t need a box for the biggest financial
institutions,” Warren said. “They’ll be in our face every day.”  In an interview, Warren said that public release of the
prototypes would come before advance notice of proposed
rulemaking. After the release, she said in her remarks, the
bureau will seek public comment, and has budgeted for five
phases of testing of the forms with consumers.  The inspector general of the Treasury Department, which
currently houses the bureau, has said these notices, an early
phase of creating new regulations, could come before the agency
is scheduled to assume its full powers on July 21.  The Dodd-Frank financial regulatory overhaul signed by
President  Barack Obama  in July requires the new agency to
propose regulations on mortgage disclosure by July 21, 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in  Washington  at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net . 