-- 
Wellink Calls ECB Rate Increase a Signal to Anchor Inflation Expectations

-- B y   C o l i n   M c C l e l l a n d
-- 
2011-04-18T22:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/wellink-says-it-s-too-early-to-know-ecb-rate-increase-size-1-.html
European Central Bank Governing
Council Member Nout Wellink said the central bank’s April 7
interest rate increase sent to investors an “extremely
important” signal aimed at preventing expectations of higher
inflation.  While Wellink didn’t explicitly ratify market and economist
forecasts that the ECB’s policy rate will rise a further 50
basis points this year to 1.75 percent, he made it clear the
central bank will keep inflation control its main policy goal.  “We try to anchor solidly inflation expectations and
that’s why the signal was extremely important,” Wellink said
after a speech to a business audience in Toronto yesterday.
“Sometimes it’s difficult to take the decision to increase
interest rates, but there’s always a trade-off: If you are too
late, the problems in the future might be much, much bigger.”  ECB Governing Council members signaled during the weekend
they will keep tightening monetary policy this year to curb
inflation as the economy strengthens. Investor expectations that
the benchmark interest rate will be increased by another 50
basis points in 2011 are “well-founded,” Austria’s Ewald Nowotny told Bloomberg News in  Washington  on April 16.  “There is scope for further increases, but having said
that, we will closely monitor the situation,” Wellink, 67, told
reporters. “This is such an uncertain world.”  Policy makers will follow the interest rate increase with
25 basis-point steps every three months, taking the benchmark
rate to 1.5 percent in July and 1.75 percent in October,
according to the median of 20 estimates in the Bloomberg survey.
The pattern will continue in 2012 with increases every quarter,
so that the key rate reaches 2.75 percent before the end of next
year, the survey shows.  Inflation Concern  Central bankers are concerned about so-called second round
effects where increases in living costs prompt workers to demand
wage increases, further entrenching inflation.  Inflation breached the ECB’s 2 percent limit in December
and accelerated to 2.7 percent last month, the fastest pace in
more than two years. Wellink called that “disappointing,”
adding that inflation is forecast to remain above the central
bank’s 2 percent ceiling for the rest of the year.  The price pressure is coming “against a background of
increasing commodity prices, oil and food prices, and decreasing
spare capacity,” Wellink said. “My personal feeling is that in
one or two years, the European economy will again be at
structural capacity.”  Wellink’s comments came in the week after German carmaker
 Volkswagen AG (VOW)  posted record first-quarter sales and French
retailer Carrefour SA said its first-quarter sales rose 3.9
percent.  Euro Strength  Higher euro-area borrowing costs at a time when the U.S.
Federal Reserve is signaling no imminent move in its near-zero
policy rate may support the euro after it fell last week on
concern  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis isn’t over.  Wellink denied that the euro’s strength implies that it is
overvalued now. “We have seen a strong euro also in the past
and we coped with that, so from that perspective we should not
worry,” he said. “If a rate increase and an increase in the
 exchange rate  don’t hamper the recovery process in the strong
countries then it’s in the interest of the weak countries.
 Germany  is the locomotive of Europe.”  Even though policy makers have said they are keen to
“normalize” policy, the ECB has kept the main planks of its
emergency responses to the recession in place -- it is still
providing banks with unlimited liquidity and has kept its bond-
purchase program in place. Wellink said yesterday that these
measures are increasingly conflicting with the ECB’s price
stability goal.  ‘At Odds’  The ECB’s liquidity and securities market programs “were
necessary measures taken in time of crisis,” Wellink said in
his speech. “As time passes, it is increasingly at odds with
the ECB’s mandate.”  Wellink praised the efforts of Greek officials, who have
been trying to convince investors the country won’t have to
renege on its debts after getting a 110 billion-euro bailout
last year from the European Union and the  International Monetary
Fund . Greek two-year government bond yields surged to 20 percent
yesterday for the first time since at least 1998, when Bloomberg
began compiling the data.  “I think you should give credit to them,” Wellink said.
“They reduced the  budget deficit  in one year by more than 5
percent, which is quite a lot.”  Asked what the country’s options might be when funding from
the bailout runs out, Wellink said “their options are to do
their utmost to fulfill their obligations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colin McClelland in Toronto at 
 cmcclelland1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net 
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net . 