-- 
Whaling or Hosting Exchange Student Lets U.S. Taxpayers Claim Deductions

-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 
2011-04-18T15:30:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/whaling-or-hosting-exchange-student-lets-u-s-taxpayers-claim-deductions.html
It’s tax day in the U.S. and you
could have had another deduction if you had just agreed to host
a foreign exchange student in 2010. Or gone whaling in  Alaska .  This year, new mothers can write off breast pumps and those
adopting a child get a bigger credit for expenses, according to
the  Internal Revenue Service .  “It shows you how complex the  tax code  is,” Mark Steber,
chief tax compliance officer for  Jackson Hewitt Tax Service
Inc. (JTX) , said of the various deductions available. “It’s a
deduction when it’s for you, it’s a loophole when it’s for that
other guy.” The tax preparer is based in Parsippany,  New
Jersey .  Individuals must file their taxes by midnight tonight and
the IRS expects about 141 million returns this year, according
to a  statement . Deductions on individual returns totaled about
$2 trillion in tax year 2009, a 2.1 percent decrease from 2008,
IRS preliminary  data  show. Taxpayers set a record this year with
almost 101 million returns filed electronically as of this
morning, the agency  said  today.  Taxpayers may be able up to deduct up to $50 a month of
expenses for hosting a foreign or American  student , according to
the IRS. The student must be in 12th grade or lower at a school
in the U.S. and can’t be a relative or dependent.  Whaling Deduction  If that doesn’t have appeal, try whaling. Up to $10,000 a
year in costs such as maintaining boats or acquiring gear for
sanctioned bowhead whale hunting may be deducted as a charitable
contribution, though only if you are recognized as a captain by
the  Alaska Eskimo Whaling Commission , according to the IRS.
 Jackson Hewitt , with five franchises in the 49th state, has seen
the deduction, said Steber, whose department monitors “out of
the norm returns.”  The deduction for costs of breast pumps and associated
supplies may be claimed if an individual’s total  medical
expenses  exceed 7.5 percent of adjusted gross income, the IRS
said in February.  The health-care reform bill passed by Congress in March
2010 increased the amount taxpayers may take as a  credit  for
adoption expenses to a maximum of $13,170 per child, compared
with $12,150 in 2009. The Affordable Care Act made it refundable
so families get the credit even if they owe no tax. The amount
is reduced for those with a modified adjusted gross income of
more than $182,520, and isn’t available for adjusted incomes
above $222,520.  Tax Overhaul  President  Barack Obama  said last week he wants Congress to
overhaul the tax code as part of a $4 trillion deficit-reduction
plan. The proposal would let tax cuts affecting high-income
taxpayers expire at the end of 2012 to increase revenue, and
would raise $1 trillion in part by curtailing certain tax
breaks.  Those who can’t meet today’s deadline can request a six-
month extension using  Free File  or  Form 4868 . About 7 percent to
8 percent of taxpayers generally do so, said IRS spokesman  Eric
Smith . While the extension provides additional time to file,
individuals are still required to pay any estimated tax owed by
April 18 to avoid possible interest and penalties.  Don’t forget to electronically or hand sign and date the
return, as an unsigned return may  delay  any refund, the IRS
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Collins  in  New York  at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 