-- 
Woolworths Third-Quarter Sales Rise 5.1% on Groceries, Fruit, Vegetables

-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r
-- 
2011-04-18T00:41:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/woolworths-third-quarter-sales-rise-5-1-on-groceries-fruit-vegetables.html
Woolworths Ltd. (WOW) , Australia’s
biggest retailer, said third-quarter sales rose 5.1 percent as
demand at its supermarkets countered falling revenue at its Big
W discount outlets.  Sales gained to A$13.6 billion ($14.3 billion) in the
period from A$12.9 billion a year ago, Sydney-based Woolworths
said in a statement today. That matched the 5 percent median
growth estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Higher selling prices for fruit and vegetables after
natural disasters in key growing areas is rekindling food
inflation and helping to limit the impact on groceries of
increased competition from second-ranked  Wesfarmers Ltd. (WES) 
Woolworths’ Big W chain is facing stalling demand amid consumer
sentiment that fell to a nine-month low in March on higher fuel
prices and household borrowing costs.  “Consumer frugality is likely to take some time to
unwind,” Grant Saligari, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
said in an April 15 report. “Over the next 12 months we expect
discretionary retail sales to gradually improve,” wrote
Saligari, who rates both Woolworths and Wesfarmers
“outperform.”  Perth-based Wesfarmers, owner of the Coles chain, has been
cutting prices of staples such as milk and eggs to win back
customers and reverse five years of market-share losses to
Woolworths.  Woolworths shares rose 1 percent to A$26.79 as of 10:22 a.m.
in Sydney and have gained 0.7 percent this year. Wesfarmers
stock has risen 3.9 percent in 2011.  Increasing Competition  The increased competition from Coles comes as Woolworths
prepares for new leadership on Oct. 1, with Chief Executive
Officer Michael Luscombe to be replaced by Grant O’Brien, who
was chief operating officer for the company’s Australian food
and gasoline businesses.  Woolworths sales from Australian food and liquor, the
company’s biggest unit, rose 4.6 percent to A$9.2 billion during
the quarter, missing analyst estimates for a 5 percent rise.  At outlets open at least a year, food and liquor revenue
increased 3.3 percent compared with analyst estimates for 3.1
percent growth.  Floods in January and Tropical Cyclone Yasi during February
hit Queensland state, damaging sugar and banana crops and
killing livestock that forced up prices.  New Zealand supermarket sales rose 3.0 percent to NZ$1.4
billion ($1.1 billion).  The Big W discount department store chain posted a 0.5
percent decline in third-quarter sales.  Australia ’s Woolworths isn’t related to London-based
Woolworths Group Plc or Woolworths Holdings Ltd. of  Cape Town ,
 South Africa .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  