-- 
Euro Gains on Bets ECB Will Raise Rates Even Amid Sovereign-Debt Turmoil

-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 
2011-04-19T21:13:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/yen-strengthens-versus-dollar-euro-amid-sovereign-debt-concerns.html
The euro advanced for the first
time in four days against the yen and gained versus the dollar
on speculation the  European Central Bank  will raise interest
rates further even as nations such as Greece struggle to contain
sovereign-debt turmoil.  The Swedish krona rallied versus all of its major
counterparts on speculation the Riksbank will increase borrowing
costs tomorrow. Canada’s dollar climbed the most in two months
versus the U.S. currency as inflation accelerated. The 17-nation
euro rose as a boost in German manufacturing outweighed Greece’s
record two-year note yield above 20 percent.  “The ECB’s message has been very clear, which is that they
want to continue to raise interest rates,”  Kathy Lien , director
of currency research at the online trader GFT Forex in New York.
“That in conjunction with positive data is helping to keep the
euro propped.”  The euro rose 0.7 percent to $1.4335 at 5 p.m. in  New York ,
from $1.4235 yesterday. The euro appreciated 0.6 percent to
118.39 yen, from 117.66. Japan’s currency advanced 0.1 percent
to 82.59 versus the dollar, from 82.66.  The ECB governing council member Nout Wellink said
yesterday in Toronto the central bank’s April 7 interest-rate
increase sent to investors an “extremely important” signal
aimed at preventing expectations of higher inflation.  Germany ’s purchasing managers’ index for manufacturing
unexpectedly climbed to 61.7 this month from 60.9 in March,
according to Markit Economics. The median forecast of 28
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a decrease to 60.
A reading above 50 signals an expansion.  Weekly Euro  Europe’s shared currency has dropped 1 percent over the
past week, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency
Indexes, a measure of the currencies of 10 developed nations.  The cost of insuring Greek government debt rose to a record
yesterday, with contracts indicating investors see a greater
than 60 percent chance of default within five years.  Greece ’s
two-year yield rose 39 basis points to a record 20.73 percent.  The krona climbed 0.6 percent against the euro to 8.9204
and appreciated 1.3 percent to 6.2227 against the dollar before
tomorrow’s Riksbank policy decision.  Sweden ’s central bank will raise its benchmark interest
rate by a quarter-percentage point to 1.75 percent, according to
all of the 28 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  Stronger Loonie  The Canadian dollar rallied against the greenback as a
government report showed the annual inflation rate accelerated
to a two-year high, exceeding all economists’ forecasts.  The  consumer price index  advanced 3.3 percent in March from
a year earlier, compared with 2.2 percent pace of increase in
the previous month, Statistics  Canada  reported. The median
forecast of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a
2.8 percent annual rate.  Canada’s dollar appreciated 0.9 percent to 95.61 cents
versus the  U.S. dollar , from 96.42 yesterday, after earlier
gaining 1 percent, the most on an intraday basis since Feb. 1.  The  Bank of Canada  will hold the target rate for overnight
loans between commercial banks at 1 percent during the second
quarter and boost it to 1.50 percent during the third quarter,
according to a separate Bloomberg News survey.  The yen may decline more than 8 percent over the next year
as Japan struggles to revive its earthquake-hit economy and
restrain a widening budget deficit, according to Mizuho
Financial Group Inc.  Mizuho on Yen  The yen may depreciate to 90 versus the dollar as spending
on reconstruction following the March 11 earthquake and
subsequent tsunami increases the deficit, said Hidetoshi Honda,
a currency strategist at Mizuho in  London .  “ Japan  already has severe problems with its government
finances, and that’s going to be made worse by the earthquake,”
Honda said. “Eventually the market will start to pay closer
attention to Japan’s fiscal situation and will punish the
country through the form of yen weakness.”  The yen has remained weaker than 80 per dollar since March
18, when Group of Seven nations acted to curb gains in the
currency that threatened to stall a recovery in the export-
driven economy. Japan’s government estimates damage from last
month’s earthquake, the largest ever recorded in the country,
may reach 25 trillion yen ($300 billion).  The greenback slid against such emerging-market currencies
as the Brazilian real and Mexican peso as investors sought
riskier assets. The real gained 0.9 percent to 1.5763 versus the
dollar, and the peso advanced 0.6 percent to 11.6792.  IntercontinentalExchange’s Dollar Index, which gauges the
greenback against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners including the euro and yen, declined for the first time
in three days, dropping 0.6 percent to 75.067 after advancing
yesterday to 75.810, the highest level since April 7.  The dollar rallied yesterday the most versus the euro since
November as  Europe ’s sovereign-debt turmoil outweighed  Standard
& Poor’s  negative outlook for the top U.S. credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  