-- 
Hysan Says Causeway Bay Rents to Narrow Price Gap With Hong Kong’s Central

-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 
2011-04-18T01:38:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/hysan-says-causeway-bay-rents-to-narrow-price-gap-with-hong-kong-s-central.html
Hysan Development Co., the biggest
commercial landlord in  Hong Kong ’s  Causeway Bay , expects office
rents in the area will rise to narrow the gap with the city’s
Central business district.  Central’s top-tier buildings such as the  International
Finance Centre  are raising rents as banks and  hedge funds 
expand, prompting a shift to lower-priced areas including
Causeway Bay. Monthly prime office rents in Central, the world’s
most expensive by occupancy cost, surged 39 percent from a year
earlier to about HK$179 ($23) a square foot in March. While they
jumped 64 percent in Causeway Bay, rents there are still lower
at HK$60, according to Knight Frank LLP.  “There’s still room for us to narrow that gap,” Hysan’s
Chief Executive Officer Gerry Yim said in an April 15 interview
in Hong Kong. “While I don’t think it’s realistic to expect us
to catch up with Central in the near term, for many firms which
don’t necessarily have to stay there, Causeway Bay offers a very
attractive option.”  Causeway Bay, the world’s second-most expensive retail area
with shopping malls including  Wharf Holdings Ltd. (4) ’s Times Square
and Hysan’s Lee Gardens, is about a seven-minute subway ride
from Central. Rents may also increase as Hong Kong’s economy,
which grew 6.8 percent in 2010, may expand by 4 percent to 5
percent this year, based on the government’s forecast in
February.  Further Rent Increases  “If external economic factors stay strong, we’re seeing at
least another five to six years in the current upward cycle for
office rental in Hong Kong,” said Yim, 51, who took over as
Hysan’s chief executive officer in March last year.  Some higher floors of Hysan’s  prime office buildings  in the
area, including the Lee Gardens, charge as high as HK$60 a
square foot, Yim said. Asking rents for Hysan Place, the 40-
storey, 710,000-square-foot commercial complex the company aims
to complete next year, are as much as HK$68 per square foot, Yim
said.  Hysan, which owns about 2.1 million square feet of  office
space  in the area, in 2010 derived 43 percent of its gross
profit from office rental and 41 percent from its 900,000 square
feet of retail space, according to its annual report.  Prime retail rents in the area rose 34 percent last year on
the continual influx of mainland Chinese tourists, according to
Savills Plc. Russell Street, where Times Square is located, was
the second-costliest retail strip in the world after  New York ’s
Fifth Avenue, Colliers International Ltd. said in December.  Hysan’s office tenants include Yahoo Inc. and Sun Hung Kai
Financial Ltd., Hong Kong’s biggest stock brokerage.  Hysan was founded by Hysan Lee in 1923. Lee, who was born
in  Hawaii  and educated in the U.S., took over his father’s opium
trade business and started Hysan after buying properties in the
west of Causeway Bay from Jardine Matheson & Co., one of Hong
Kong’s then biggest trading houses. Lee was assassinated in
1928.  Former chairman Peter Lee, Hysan Lee’s grandson, died in
2009. Irene Lee, Peter’s cousin, will take over in May from Sir
David Akers-Jones.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  