-- 
Zinc, Aluminum Premiums to Climb on Scarcity, Macquarie Says

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-04-18T16:33:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/zinc-aluminum-premiums-to-climb-on-scarcity-macquarie-says.html
Premiums paid for zinc and aluminum
in the U.S. probably will rise in the next few weeks because of
the metals’ limited availability in the physical market, said
Macquarie Bank Ltd.  Zinc premiums, added to the price of immediate-delivery
metal on the London Metal Exchange, more than doubled in the
past year to 6 to 7 cents a pound even as inventories swelled,
Macquarie analysts including London-based Duncan Hobbs said in a
report today. Much of the metal in LME-tracked stockpiles is
unavailable for immediate use, according to the analysts.  “A lot of this metal, and other material held off-warrant,
is tied up in carry trades, with the result that it is de facto
removed from the physical market, contributing to rising
premiums and, ultimately, lending support to exchange prices,”
they said. “We expect the carry trade in zinc and aluminum will
contribute to lifting spot market premiums further in the coming
weeks, possibly towards 10¢/lb delivered in the U.S. market.”  A carry trade involves a simultaneous purchase of metal for
nearby delivery and a forward sale to take advantage of a market
in contango, when contracts with later delivery dates trade at
higher prices than nearer-dated metal. Financing costs and
expenses for storing metal influence profits on the
transactions.  Highest Since 2004  LME zinc inventories are at 764,300 metric tons, the
highest level since April 2004, exchange data showed today.
They’re up 9 percent this year, heading for a fifth annual climb
in a row. Almost three-quarters of the stockpiled zinc is held
in U.S. warehouses.  The exchange’s aluminum stocks come to 4.56 million tons,
with almost half held in the U.S. Inventories slipped 7.6
percent last year, the first drop since 2005.  Exchange rules limit the maximum amount of metal warehouses
are obliged to release, according to the analysts, helping to
keep metal tied up.  “In warehouses where total metal stocks have built up to
hundreds of thousands of tons, it may then take many months or
even years before all of this metal could be withdrawn back into
the market,” Macquarie said. The bank predicted further
deliveries of metal into warehouses.  The prospective launch of exchange-traded funds that are
physically backed by zinc and aluminum may help to drive
premiums upward and support prices, according to Macquarie. ETF
Securities Ltd. said April 14 it plans to introduce exchange-
traded products backed by the metals in the current quarter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 