-- 
Zloty Weakens on Central Banker Rate-Rise Opposition, Wages

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-04-18T13:58:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-18/zloty-weakens-2nd-day-as-central-bankers-oppose-rate-increase.html
The zloty slid for a second day
after two central bank policy makers said  interest rates  should
not be increased in May and a government report today showed
wage growth slowed last month.  The Polish currency lost 1.1 percent to 3.9925 per euro as
of 3:54 p.m. in Warsaw, the steepest decline among more than 20
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg. One-month
forward rate agreements, which investors use to lock in
borrowing costs in the future, declined one basis points to 4.51
basis points.  Average wages rose to 4 percent annually in March, down
from February’s 4.1 percent, indicating inflation may move
toward the central bank’s 2.5 percent target. Poland’s annual
inflation quickened to 4.3 percent in March, the highest in more
than two years, the government said April 13. The bank may need
to consider bigger rate increases if inflation climbs above 4
percent, Andrzej Kazmierczak of the Monetary Policy Council said
in an interview published April 8.  “The data is lending support to those policy makers who
oppose quick and decisive rate increases,”  Grzegorz Maliszewski , an economist at Bank Millennium SA in Warsaw, and
colleagues wrote in a note to clients. “The job market isn’t
generating inflation pressure.”  ‘Serious Mistake’  The central bank would make “a serious mistake” by
lifting rates next month because the move would needlessly
stifle growth as inflation is set to slow later this year,   Adam Glapinski  said in a Bloomberg News interview published today.
The bank has “lots of time” to decide whether it needs to make
further rate moves, Elzbieta Chojna-Duch said on TVN CNBC news
channel.  Investors in  derivatives market  last week bolstered their
wagers for a rate increase at the meeting on May 11 after a
report showed inflation rate rose to the highest in 2 1/2 years
in March. One-month forward rate agreements are trading 21 basis
points above three-month Warsaw Interbank Offered Rate, down
from 31 basis points on April 14.  Glapinski’s comments “can mean quite a big turnaround for
the market, which has been swamped by various comments since the
inflation release last week,” BNP Paribas SA emerging-market
strategists wrote in a note to customers. “Consequently, expect
some scaling down of rate hikes expectations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  