-- 
Agrokor Looks Past Mercator for Expansion, CEO Todoric Says

-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c   a n d   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 
2011-07-04T14:39:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/agrokor-looks-past-mercator-for-expansion-ceo-todoric-says-1-.html
Agrokor d.d. is looking at expansion
targets outside Slovenia and  Croatia  and isn’t focused on making
an offer for  Mercator Poslovni Sistem (MELR)  d.d., the largest
supermarket chain in the Balkans.  Slovenian banks and other Mercator owners such as  Pivovarna
Lasko (PILR)  Group d.d. agreed on June 15 to sell just over 50 percent
of Ljubljana-based Mercator after a previous sale fell through.
Agrokor in April offered 221 euros ($320) per share for 23
percent of Mercator that was being sold by Pivovarna Lasko d.d.
The transaction was canceled after Slovenia’s competition
protection office forbid Lasko from freely disposing Mercator
shares.  “We aren’t focused on making an offer for Mercator,”
Ivica Todoric, chief executive officer of the Zagreb-based
Agrokor, told reporters today in Beli Manastir, eastern Croatia.
“I believe and hope we will have significant news in the next
six to 12 months as we still have sufficient access to funds for
expansion into other markets, including  Belgium , Italy and
 Turkey .”  Mercator and Agrokor are vying for market share in the
Balkans even as the Slovenian and Croatian company hold talks on
a possible alliance in the retail industry. The push for market
dominance in the region intensified after the Delhaize Group of
Belgium acquired Serbian retail chain Delta Maxi Group in March.  Harvest Data  Agrokor, which owns Croatia’s biggest retail chain Konzum
d.d., expects revenue to gain between eight percent and 10
percent this year, Todoric said. Preliminary 2011 harvest data
indicate that the wheat crop will be sufficient for both the
domestic market and exports, he said.  Mercator gained for a third day in trading. Shares rose 35
eurocents, or 0.2 percent, to close at 162.35 euros in
Ljubljana. That compares with 180 euros on March 18, when other
bidders like Mid Europa Partners Ltd. and Warburg Pincus LLC
entered the race for the Slovenian retailer.  Konzum dropped the most among the 25 most-traded stocks of
the Croatian benchmark index. The stock lost 8.16 kuna, or 3.8
percent, to close at 208.10 kuna in Zagreb. Konzum gained 16.9
percent from the start of the year, compared with the 5.6
percent rise of the benchmark Crobex index in the same period.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  