-- 
Thailand’s Yingluck May Spur Prices, Baht in ‘Double Whammy’ for Exporters

-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-07-05T03:52:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/thai-vote-may-boost-inflation-currency-in-double-whammy-for-exporters.html
Efforts by  Thailand ’s incoming
government to boost growth and lift incomes may accelerate
inflation, forcing  interest rates  higher and increasing business
costs even as a strengthening currency threatens exports.  The Bank of Thailand is assessing the economic effect of
policies that may be implemented by the Pheu Thai party after it
won the July 3 election, Director Mathee Supapongse said. Pheu
Thai, which is assembling a five-party coalition that would hold
299 seats in the 500-member parliament, campaigned on pledges to
raise the minimum wage and guarantee rice prices for farmers.  Pheu Thai, led by exiled former leader Thaksin Shinawatra’s
sister Yingluck, hasn’t specified how it aims to fund the
pledges, risking an increase in borrowing needs that may cause
bond yields to rise. Higher yields and central bank rates would
offer support for the baht, which rallied yesterday, bringing
its gain to 6.5 percent against the dollar in the past year.  “The plans to raise the minimum wages and spending is
likely to support growth, but stoke inflation as well,” said
 Rahul Bajoria , an economist in  Singapore  at Barclays Plc who
expects the Bank of Thailand to raise its benchmark rate at the
next meeting. “It is likely to have a significant impact.”  Thailand’s baht rose by the most since February 2008 and
shares climbed after Pheu Thai’s victory over Prime Minister
 Abhisit Vejjajiva ’s Democrats, a win that may ease concern about
political strife after Thaksin’s opponents overturned the last
three election results.  The benchmark SET Index, which rose 4.7 percent yesterday,
was down 0.1 percent at 1,088.87 as of 10:42 a.m. local time.
The baht traded 0.1 percent lower at 30.51 per dollar.  Exports Risk  Still, manufacturers including  Hana Microelectronics Pcl (HANA) 
are bracing for higher borrowing and wage costs, which may
combine with a stronger currency to hurt overseas sales.  “The double whammy will be a rising stronger Thai baht and
wage-inflation spiral,” Richard Han, Chief Executive Officer at
Hana Microelectronics, said in a Bloomberg Television interview
yesterday. “That will be negative for exports.”  DBS Group Holdings Ltd. predicts Thailand’s currency will
strengthen 5.8 percent to 28.80 per dollar by year-end. It
jumped 1.1 percent to 30.47 yesterday in Bangkok. The benchmark
 stock index  climbed 4.7 percent.  Pheu Thai hasn’t said who will be its finance minister to
replace the outgoing Korn Chatikavanij, the Oxford-trained
former chairman of JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s Thai unit. The
incoming government also won’t have the power to directly affect
the leadership of the central bank under Thai law.  Korn’s Replacement  Kittiratt Na-Ranong, a former president of Thailand’s stock
exchange, is the top candidate for finance minister, the Thai-
language Kao Hoon newspaper reported today, without saying where
it obtained the information. Other candidates include Olarn Chaipravat, former president of Siam Commercial Bank Pcl, and
Suchart Thadathamrongvej, an ex-finance minister, it said.  Standard Chartered Plc said in a note yesterday it was
maintaining an “underweight” stance on Thai bonds, saying an
“expansionary fiscal policy may raise concerns over fiscal
discipline and heighten inflation expectations.”  Thaksin, premier from 2001 to 2006, introduced a debt
moratorium for farmers and fuel and electricity subsidies as
part of a set of populist policies dubbed “Thaksinomics” at
the time. In April, he pledged to build dams and railways and
raise minimum rice prices if the Pheu Thai party won elections.  Yingluck, who is set to be the first female Thai premier,
had also promised tablet PCs, rice-price guarantee schemes,
high-speed trains, dams, and a new city before the election.  Stability Versus Growth  “It seems likely that they will be more pro-growth, pro-
consumption and pro-fiscal spending so that would not go down so
well with the Bank of Thailand,” said Santitarn Sathirathai, a
Singapore-based economist at Credit Suisse Group AG. “The Bank
of Thailand may have to hike to balance out and slow down the
economy a bit to achieve stability as well as growth. There may
be potential tensions between the two sides.”  The central bank, which will decide on rates on July 13,
raised its one-day bond repurchase rate by a quarter of a
percentage point to 3 percent on June 1, the fourth increase
this year.
The new government’s policies to stimulate consumption may force
Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul to take more aggressive steps to
tame inflation that’s near a 32-month high. Consumer prices
climbed 4.06 percent last month from a year earlier, after
rising 4.19 percent in May.  ‘Populist Policies’  “We are quite concerned about the populist policies and we
want them to implement gradually if they can, but it looks like
they want to do it quick,” said Somprawin Manprasert, an
economist at Tisco Securities Co. in Bangkok. “If the fiscal
side is loosening a lot, the monetary policy may be tightened
quicker than what the market expected.”  Tisco Securities estimates the benchmark rate may rise to
3.5 percent by the end of the year, with an “upside bias” for
the rate to reach 3.75 percent or 4 percent, Somprawin said.
Public debt, predicted in a central bank study to rise to 60
percent of gross domestic product in 2017 from about 40 percent,
may expand faster if Pheu Thai implements its policies quickly,
he said.  “It’s not clear how they will generate money to finance
that,” the economist said. “It’s better for them to implement
policies gradually than just do it all because if they go in the
wrong direction, there will be big damage to the country, which
will be difficult to get fixed.”  Abhisit’s government had already capped diesel tariffs and
applied price controls to items such as eggs and cooking oil to
shield Thailand’s 67 million people from the impact of inflation
in  Southeast Asia ’s second-largest economy.  Ruling Elite  Thaksin was ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived overseas
since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power. Parties linked
to him have won the past four national elections on support in
northern areas for cheap health care plans and microcredit
policies.  Political uncertainty in Thailand will affect growth
prospects and economic stability in “the medium to long term,”
Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services said in a statement today.  “The pace and the degree of restoration of political
stability will have significant implications for our sovereign
ratings on Thailand,” S&P credit analyst Takahira Ogawa said.
“Given the depth of the political divide, complete
reconciliation of the country in the near future may be
difficult.”  This month’s election result marks a repudiation of the
country’s ruling elite, which views Thaksin as a threat to the
monarchy, and an endorsement of the man at the center of a feud
that has divided Thailand for the past decade.  “There were political uncertainties up until now because
we didn’t know who will become the government; now that’s out of
the way,” said Han of Hana Microelectronics. “The next level
of political uncertainty is can the government now implement
policies without causing lots of economic issues later on like
inflation and productivity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at   tjordan3@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  