-- 
Thailand Calm May Rely on Delaying Thaksin’s Return to Appease Military

-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-05T06:42:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/thailand-calm-may-rely-on-delaying-thaksin-s-return-to-appease-military.html
Thaksin Shinawatra’s allies plan to
use their electoral mandate to address what they call injustices
committed since a coup in 2006. Moving too fast risks conflict
with the Thai military that overthrew them.  The win for Pheu Thai, led by Thaksin’s sister, Yingluck Shinawatra, boosted stocks and the currency as investors shed
their pre-election jitters and hailed the formation of a stable
government. The incoming administration must overcome resistance
from Thailand’s military, courts and bureaucracy as it seeks to
allow Thaksin to return from a three-year exile and change the
constitution to reduce the power of non-elected institutions.  “The biggest risk is that they move aggressively, that
they say ‘We have a mandate and will use that to roll back
what’s happened since the 2006 coup,’” said  Andrew Stotz , a
Bangkok-based strategist at Kim Eng Securities (Thailand) Pcl,
the nation’s largest stock brokerage. “If he goes too fast and
aggressive, the protests will start.”  Yingluck, who has deflected questions on whether Pheu Thai
would promote amnesty for Thaksin, called for “unity and
reconciliation” at a press conference yesterday in Bangkok at
which she announced the formation of a five-party coalition.
Thaksin, who has lived in Dubai since fleeing a 2008 jail term
for abuse of power, told reporters there that he had no
immediate plans to go back.  Golfing Thaksin  “I should be part of the solution, not the problem,”
Thaksin, 61, said, adding that he was considering a new career
as a professional golfer. Asked if he aimed to reclaim more than
$1 billion in wealth seized by the government after his ouster,
Thaksin replied: “Don’t worry about it. I’m not starving.”  The prospects for stability depend on Thaksin staying away
in the near future, said Kaewsan Atipho, a member of the panel
that investigated his assets after the coup. Efforts to return
or change the constitution in Thaksin’s favor could provoke more
demonstrations, he said.  Thaksin should “shut up” and stay away from  Thailand ,
outgoing Deputy Prime Minister Suthep Thaugsuban said.  “If Yingluck lets her brother control her, she will end up
doing bad things like Thaksin had done including dominating
government officials and interfering with the army, parliament
and judicial process,” he told reporters today. “If she does,
that will be the end of her.”  Fifth Straight Win  Pheu Thai won 265 seats in the 500-seat parliament on July
3, the fifth straight time a party linked to Thaksin has won the
most seats in an election since 2001. The military ousted him in
2006 on grounds he failed to respect  King Bhumibol Adulyadej , 83.
The monarch’s 65-year reign has seen nine coups and more than 20
prime ministers.  Thailand’s SET Index was little changed at the mid-day
break in Bangkok after posting the biggest advance in  Asia 
yesterday. The baht, which jumped the most since February 2008
yesterday, lost 0.1 percent to 30.51 per dollar. SC Asset Corp.
and M Link Asia Corp., companies controlled by Thaksin’s family,
retreated after gains yesterday of more than 10 percent.  “The pace and the degree of restoration of political
stability will have significant implications for our sovereign
ratings on Thailand,” Standard and Poor’s credit analyst
Takahira Ogawa said in a statement today. “Given the depth of
the political divide, complete reconciliation of the country in
the near future may be difficult.”  Overseas investors bought 10.7 billion baht ($351 million)
more of Thai stocks than they sold yesterday, the most since Dec.
8, 2010. Credit-default swaps on Thailand fell 7 basis points to
121, according to CMA prices at 4 p.m. yesterday in  London .  Constitution Tussle  During the campaign, Yingluck, 44, said she would seek
changes to a constitution written after the coup that
established a Senate to which half the members are appointed. It
also includes a clause that disbands political parties and bans
all executive members for five years if one person commits
election fraud.  Almost a year after Thaksin’s allies won the 2007 election,
the first since the coup, the article was used to disband their
party and oust the government.  “The elite still have constitutional mechanisms that they
can deploy,” said  Chaturon Chaisang , a former cabinet minister
under Thaksin and one of 220 lawmakers banned since the coup.
“This is not just something in our imagination, it’s happened
before. The fundamental problem is still there.”  Efforts by the last pro-Thaksin administration to change
the constitution in 2008 were met with seven months of protests
from his opponents, who wore yellow shirts to symbolize their
loyalty to the monarchy. They seized the prime minister’s
offices and stormed Bangkok’s airports as the military ignored
requests from the pro-Thaksin government to disperse them.  Red Shirts   The street action and party disbanding paved the way for
Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva  to take power in a
parliamentary vote in late 2008. That has triggered protests
ever since from Thaksin’s supporters, who wore red shirts.  The group’s demonstrations last year led to 91 deaths and
prompted Abhisit to establish a committee to suggest
constitutional changes. His administration later rejected the
group’s proposals to strengthen political parties and make the
Senate fully elected.  Abhisit, 46, resigned yesterday as party leader after his
Democrat party lost the election. In conceding to Yingluck the
night before, he said Pheu Thai shouldn’t pursue amnesty for
Thaksin.  Thaksin, who founded what became Thailand’s biggest mobile-
phone company, draws his support from poorer Thais in the north
and northeast. They make up a majority of the population.  His opponents accused him of seeking to monopolize power
during his five years as prime minister, threatening the
monarchy.  “These people continue to hate Thaksin and they don’t want
him back,” said Kevin Hewison, a professor in the Department of
Asian Studies at the University of  North Carolina . “If there is
any move that looks like he’s closer to coming back or if
there’s anything they interpret as a whitewash, they will be up
for the fight.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  