-- 
Thailand’s Baht Rises, Stocks Surge as Pro-Thaksin Party Wins Election

-- B y   A n u c h i t   N g u y e n   a n d   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 
2011-07-04T10:37:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/thailand-s-baht-rises-as-pro-thaksin-party-wins.html
Thailand’s baht rose by the most
since February 2008 and shares climbed after an election victory
by allies of exiled former premier  Thaksin Shinawatra  raised
prospects foreign investors will return to the nation.  The cost of protecting  government bonds  from default
dropped the most in more than a year as Pheu Thai, led by
Thaksin’s sister Yingluck Shinawatra, won 265 seats in the 500-
member parliament and announced the formation of a five-party,
299-seat coalition. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva 
congratulated Yingluck, and the defense minister said the army
accepted the result. The benchmark SET Index of shares advanced
by the most since April 2010.  Investors have sold Thai stocks and the baht over the past
month amid concern a disputed result would spark violence. The
decisive win by Thaksin’s allies may bring stability to a nation
beset by clashes between his supporters and opponents that
claimed more than 100 lives since the last vote in 2007.  “The majority victory is a very welcome outcome and
foreign investors will come back very quickly,” said  Frances Cheung , a senior strategist at  Credit Agricole  CIB in  Hong Kong .
“It cleared a part of the uncertainty and sentiment will
stabilize.”  The baht climbed 1 percent, the most since Feb. 29, 2008,
to 30.49 per dollar as of 4:45 p.m. in Bangkok, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The currency reached 30.41 earlier,
the strongest level since June 23. Credit Agricole expects the
baht to rise to 29.20 by year-end, Cheung said.  Pre-Election Slide  The SET Index added 4.7 percent, the biggest advance in
Asia today, to 1,090.28 as SC Asset Corp. and M Link Asia Corp.,
companies controlled by Yingluck’s family, surged. SC Asset
jumped 12 percent to 15.4 baht and M Link climbed 25 percent to
2.22 baht.  Global funds sold $884 million more Thai equities than they
bought in June, the biggest monthly sell-off since January,
according to stock exchange data. The benchmark SET Index fell
to a three-month low on June 27. Overseas investors bought a net
10.7 billion baht ($351 million) of Thai stocks today, the most
since Dec. 8, according to Bloomberg data.  Credit-default swaps on  Thailand  fell 11 basis points, or
0.11 percentage point, to 119.5 basis points, according to Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc. That’s the biggest drop since May 27
last year, according to prices from CMA.  “Pheu Thai’s majority victory is positive for the
economy,” said Vana Bulbon, chief executive officer at UOB
Asset Management (Thailand) Co., which oversees the equivalent
of $1.8 billion of assets. “It will let them control key
economic ministries, allowing better coordination and
implementation of policies. Politics has been the key risk
discouraging overseas investors.”  Political Stability  The SET Index trades for 12.1 times estimated 2011 earnings,
compared with 13.8 times for the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. The
Thai index dropped 3 percent in June, while the baht fell 1.4
percent against the dollar, the worst performance among its
Asian peers.  “The stability of the new government is very important for
both local and foreign investors,” said Voravan Taraphum, chief
executive officer at BBL Asset Management Co., a unit of
Thailand’s biggest lender, which oversees about $4.9 billion of
assets. “The return of overseas investment into Thai stocks
will help the baht appreciate.”  A military crackdown on protests by Thaksin’s supporters
last May sparked violent clashes, claiming about 90 lives. The
supporters occupied Bangkok’s commercial district, forcing a
closure of some shopping malls and offices. In 2008, a seizure
of Bangkok’s airports during a protest by Thaksin’s opponents
disrupted trade and stranded thousands of tourists.  Investor Caution  Some investors may be cautious about buying Thai assets on
concern Pheu Thai’s victory won’t bring an end to political
instability, said Takahide Irimura, head of emerging-market
research at Tokyo-based Kokusai Asset Management Co.  “Investors are worried there will be a repetition of
protests, violence or other kinds of political problems that may
hinder the nation’s economy or financial markets,” said Irimura,
whose company oversees about $57 billion of assets including
 Asia ’s biggest debt fund.  Thaksin was ousted in a 2006 coup and has lived overseas
since fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power in 2008.
Abhisit told his supporters that Pheu Thai plans an amnesty for
Thaksin, allowing him to return to the Southeast Asian country
and reclaim more than $1 billion in seized wealth.  Winning Candidates  Thaksin said today in Dubai he has no immediate plans to
return to his homeland and downplayed concerns he would leverage
his sister’s election win to regain the seized wealth.  The Election Commission will certify winning candidates
within 30 days, after which parliament will meet to pick a prime
minister, according to spokesman Paiboon Lekprom. Pheu Thai won
265 seats, the Democrats 159 seats and smaller parties 76 seats
based on the latest unofficial Election Commission data, Paiboon
said today.  Thaksin-backed parties have won as much as 49 percent of
seats in four previous elections dating back to 2001, only to
see the last three results overturned through court rulings and
a coup.  “If the Pheu Thai party is allowed to govern with the
majority it has won in free and fair elections, that’s progress
for Thailand,” said  Michael Montesano , visiting research fellow
at the Institute of Southeast Asia Studies in  Singapore . “There
are many steps ahead and the country is bitterly divided.”  Pheu Thai pledged to provide guaranteed prices for farmers,
increase minimum wages, maintain policies to encourage foreign
direct investment and take measures to curb consumer prices.
Inflation held at 4.06 percent in June, near a 32-month high,
government data show.  Higher  Interest Rates   The Bank of Thailand has raised the benchmark one-day bond
repurchase rate four times this year to 3 percent. The  finance
ministry  said last week it expects gross domestic product to
increase by a maximum of 5 percent this year.  Even after the worst political violence in almost two
decades, both the SET Index and the currency were the second-
best performers in Asia excluding  Japan  last year, with a 41
percent gain and 11 percent appreciation, respectively. The
index fell 0.6 percent in the second quarter, the gauge’s first
quarterly loss since March 2009, while the baht posted its
second quarterly decline, losing 1.6 percent.  “I don’t expect overseas investors will react negatively
in the short term because they already factored this in by
selling Thai equities in the past month,” said Jitra Amornthum,
head of research at Finansia Syrus Securities Pcl in Bangkok.
“The election delivers a clear picture that Pheu Thai will head
the new government with a strong mandate.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anuchit Nguyen in Bangkok at 
 anguyen@bloomberg.net ;
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  