-- 
Air France-KLM to Track BA With M&A-Friendly Management Plan

-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n   a n d   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-07-04T13:32:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/air-france-klm-to-follow-ba-with-m-a-friendly-management-model.html
Air France-KLM Group plans to expand
the role of its holding company to encourage greater integration
between the French and Dutch units and allow for the possible
acquisition of carriers including  Alitalia  SpA.  Under the structure, Chief Executive Officer Pierre-Henri Gourgeon will remain as group head while relinquishing the top
job at Air France to a new appointee, whose role will match that
of the current KLM CEO. The holding company would also take over
functions such as  information technology , financial management,
purchasing and alliances, spokeswoman Brigitte Barrand said.  Europe ’s largest airline was formed from the 2003 takeover
of KLM Royal Dutch Airlines NV by Air France, which asserted its
seniority via a three-executive holding company with a French
chairman, Jean-Cyril Spinetta, and a CEO still linked to the
French unit. The new model will resemble one created with the
January merger of British Airways and Iberia, where ex-BA chief
 Willie Walsh  heads International Consolidated Airlines Group SA,
a neutrally named company designed to facilitate further deals.  “The airline wants to evolve to create a real holding
company because if we want to have other airlines within the
group it makes sense to develop that,” Barrand said today by
telephone. The holding structure will remain based in Paris and
will be run according to French law, she said, confirming
comments from Gourgeon to French newspaper  Les Echos , though
it’s not clear whether it will take on a new name.  Slot-In  One prospective addition to the group is Alitalia. Air
France-KLM agreed to buy 25 percent of the Rome-based carrier in
January 2009 and has the right to buy any stock sold by its
fellow shareholders, CAI and a group of Italian investors.  “It’s a trade-off between keeping it lean and wanting to
keep it controllable, but it seems to make sense,” said Jonathan Wober, an analyst at Societe Generale SA in London who
recommends buying  Air France-KLM (AF)  stock. “If you wanted to bring
in Alitalia or other airlines, this kind of more central group
structure would allow you to slot something in.”  Leo van Wijk is vice-chairman of  Air France-KLM’s board  and
the sole Dutchman in the holding company. Peter Hartman is CEO
of KLM.  Air France-KLM, which is allied to  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  in
the SkyTeam group of carriers, rose as much as 1.2 percent to
10.96 euros and was trading at 10.88 euros as of 2:10 p.m. in
London, paring the stock’s slump this year to 20 percent and
valuing the company at 3.26 billion euros ($4.7 billion).  IAG has lost 8.6 percent since its trading debut in  London 
on Jan. 24 and is valued at 4.79 billion pounds ($7.7 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Singapore at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  