-- 
Thaksin Says Returning to Thailand Is Not a Top Priority

-- B y   V i v i a n   S a l a m a   a n d   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 
2011-07-04T07:03:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/thaksin-says-returning-to-thailand-is-not-a-top-priority-1-.html
Exiled former Thai leader Thaksin Shinawatra has no immediate plans to return to his homeland and
downplayed concerns he would leverage his sister’s election win
to regain more than $1 billion in seized wealth.  “Going back is not a main concern, not a top priority,”
he told reporters today in Dubai, where he has lived since
fleeing a jail sentence for abuse of power in 2008. “I should
be part of the solution, not the problem.”  Thaksin, ousted in a 2006 coup, has backed parties that
have won at least 49 percent of seats in five elections over the
past decade. Last year, a court seized about 60 percent of the
76.6 billion baht ($2.5 billion) that his family earned from the
2006 sale of holding company Shin Corp. two weeks before street
protests by his supporters killed 91 people.  “Don’t worry about it,” Thaksin said of the money. “I’m
not starving.”  Yingluck Shinawatra, Thaksin’s sister, is set to become
 Thailand ’s first female prime minister after her Pheu Thai party
won 264 seats in yesterday’s election. Prime Minister  Abhisit Vejjajiva , who resigned as leader of the losing Democrat party
today, sought to win votes by saying Pheu Thai plans an amnesty
for Thaksin, allowing him to return to Thailand and reclaim more
than $1 billion in seized wealth.  “Thai people have voiced their concern about the
country,” Thaksin said. “Very clearly they want to reconcile,
they want the country to move forward.”  Thaksin said he didn’t want to return as prime minister and
was considering a new career as a professional golfer.  “I am too old,” he said. “I want to retire.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama in  Abu Dhabi  at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  