-- 
American Farrar Wins Tour de France Stage 3 on U.S. Independence Holiday

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-04T16:27:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/american-farrar-wins-tour-de-france-stage-3-on-u-s-independence-holiday.html
Tyler Farrar of the Garmin-Cervelo
team became the first American to win a stage of cycling’s Tour
de  France  on  Independence Day .  Farrar’s teammate Thor Hushovd of Norway kept the race-
leading yellow jersey after stage three, a 123-mile (198-
kilometer) ride on flat terrain between Olonne-sur-Mer and Redon
near the west coast of France.  Farrar darted ahead with 150 meters left, after being led
out to the front by Hushovd, and beat Romain Feillu of
Vacansoleil and Jose Joaquin Rojas of Team Movistar by about a
bike’s length.  “I’ve been chasing this for a long time, and the 4th of
July makes it even better,” Farrar, 27, told Eurosport after
his first Tour de France stage win.  Hushovd had taken the yellow jersey after Garmin-Cervelo
won the team time trial yesterday. Teammate David Millar is next
with the same time and two-time runner-up  Cadel Evans  of BMC
Racing is a second further back.  Defending champion  Alberto Contador  remained 1 minute, 38
seconds behind  Andy Schleck , last year’s runner-up. Contador
lost the time in the first stage after he was held up by a
crash, and in the team time trial.  Contador was acquitted by the Spanish cycling federation
after testing positive for banned stimulant clenbuterol in
winning last year’s Tour. The federation accepted his argument
that the reading was down to contaminated meat.  Cycling’s ruling body,  Union Cycliste Internationale ,
appealed the decision and the Lausanne, Switzerland-based Court
of Arbitration for Sport will make a final decision after the
race which ends July 24 in Paris.  Lead Over Peloton  Without competition for places among race favorites today,
five riders opened up a lead over the peloton at the start. Two
of the group, Jose-Ivan Gutierrez of Team Movistar and Francaise
des Jeux’s Mickael Delage, broke away with 12 miles left before
they were caught with 6 miles remaining.  Farrar made a ‘W’ sign with his hands as he crossed the
line in an apparent dedication to Wouter Weylandt, his friend
who was killed in a crash on a descent at the Giro d’Italia in
May.  Tomorrow’s stage, which covers 107 miles between Lorient
and Mur-de-Bretagne, is another mainly flat course.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  