-- 
Manchester City Plans $43.5 Million Bid for Nasri, Mail Says: Roundup

-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 
2011-07-04T08:03:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/manchester-city-plans-43-5-million-bid-for-nasri-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Arsenal Pair  Manchester City  will bid as much as 27 million pounds
($43.5 million) for Arsenal pair Samir Nasri and Gael Clichy,
the  Daily Mail  reported.  City is finalizing a 7 million pound deal for Clichy and
will make the Gunners an offer that is “difficult to refuse”
for Nasri, the Mail said.  Chelsea Monitors Nasri   Chelsea is monitoring Nasri’s situation and may compete
with  Manchester United  for the midfielder’s signature should its
move for Tottenham’s  Luka Modric  fail, the Independent  reported .  Signing Nasri has been discussed at the “highest level”
by Chelsea’s board and owner Roman Abramovich, the newspaper
said. The Blues already had a 22 million-pound bid for Modric
rejected, the Independent added.  Non-Negotiable  Santos President Luis Alvaro de Oliveira said the Brazilian
club will turn down any big-money offers from  Europe  for teenage
striker Neymar, the  Daily Telegraph   reported .  “In light of continuous speculation in the national and
international press about the future of our player, I feel
obliged to communicate the departure of Neymar is non-
negotiable,” the Telegraph cited De Oliveira as saying in a
statement. Chelsea and Real  Madrid  had been the favorites to
sign him, the newspaper added.  Wolves Striker  Arsenal manager Arsene Wenger is lining up a 12 million
pound bid for Wolves striker Kevin Doyle, the  Daily Mirror 
reported. Doyle is halfway through a four-year deal and Wolves
are keen to extend his contract, the Mirror said.  United Duo  Stoke wants to sign Manchester United’s John O’Shea and  Wes Brown  for about 8 million pounds, the  Mirror  reported.  The Potters are keen to take advantage in a delay in the
players’ negotiations with Sunderland, the Mirror said.  McLeish Compensation  Aston Villa has opened talks with Birmingham City over
compensation for signing its coach Alex McLeish, the  Mirror 
reported.  The Blues are demanding 5.4 million pounds, citing a clause
in McLeish’s contract, the Mirror said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid  at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  