-- 
Maple Purchase of TMX May Boost Efficiency, de Bever Says

-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 
2011-07-04T17:32:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/maple-purchase-of-tmx-group-may-boost-efficiency-aimco-s-de-bever-says.html
A takeover of the Toronto Stock
Exchange owner by a group of Canadian banks and pension funds
may help make Canadian markets more efficient, according to Leo de Bever, chief executive officer of Alberta Investment
Management Corp., one of the funds backing the bid.  “What I hope to get out of it is increased efficiency in
how trading in Canada works,” de Bever said today in an
interview in Toronto. “I’m not sure that having competition in
exchanges in the country is necessarily great. In some sense an
exchange is a natural monopoly.”  AIMCo is one of 13 investors in Maple Group Acquisition
Corp., which offered to buy the  TMX Group Inc. (X)  in May for C$3.73
billion ($3.89 billion) to challenge TMX’s merger agreement with
 London Stock Exchange Group Plc. (LSE)  TMX and LSE scrapped their
transaction on June 29 after failing to get enough support from
shareholders, clearing the way for Maple Group to pursue its
unsolicited takeover.  TMX Group CEO  Thomas Kloet  said June 30 he would consider
alternative transactions including the Maple offer, which it
previously rejected. Maple Group’s cash-and-stock offer to buy
at least 70 percent of TMX shares expires Aug. 8.  De Bever said he doesn’t foresee a return to the period
when the Toronto Stock Exchange was exclusively owned by
brokerages.  “We don’t want to go back to what we were 20 years ago;
that’s why the whole thing was structured to be controlled by
independents rather than the banks,” de Bever said, referring
to Maple’s pledge to appoint a majority of independent
directors.  Combine With Alpha  Maple Group plans to combine TMX with Alpha Group, an
alternative trading platform owned by the banks that has about
21 percent of the market for equities trading, and Canadian
securities clearing house CDS Inc. Maple Group needs approvals
from provincial securities regulators and  Canada ’s competition
bureau.  “Now the proof is in the pudding: Can we amalgamate some
of these peripheral networks into a broader TMX?” de Bever
said.  The Edmonton, Alberta-based  fund manager  made a C$247.8
million equity commitment for Maple Group, matching the amount
committed by Caisse de Depot et Placement du  Quebec , Canada
Pension Plan Investment Board and Ontario Teachers’ Pension
Plan.  “The economics have to stand on their own, and I think
they’re relatively decent,” de Bever said.  AIMCo would hold as much as 8.7 percent of TMX Group if
Maple’s bid succeeds. Pension funds would hold as much as 38
percent of TMX compared with as much as 33 percent for banks and
brokerages under the plan, according to a June 24 filing.  AIMco managed C$70.7 billion in assets for Alberta’s
provincial government, public pension plans and endowments as of
March 31, 2010. The fund plans to release its investment returns
for fiscal 2010-11 tomorrow.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  