-- 
Asahi Said in Talks to Buy Malaysian Pepsi Bottler Permanis

-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 
2011-07-04T01:29:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/asahi-said-in-talks-to-buy-pepsi-bottler-permanis.html
Asahi Group Holdings Ltd.,  Japan ’s
biggest beermaker by sales volume, is in talks to acquire
Permanis Sdn., PepsiCo Inc.’s bottler in  Malaysia , for about
$200 million, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Asahi is competing with another company to buy Permanis
from Kuala Lumpur-based C.I. Holdings, said the person, who
declined to be identified as discussions are private. A deal may
be concluded within four to six weeks, the person said.  Japanese companies have accelerated investments abroad
after production and power-supply disruptions following the
nation’s strongest earthquake on record on March 11, Daiwa
Institute of Research said last week. The country’s beverage
makers are expanding overseas as a shrinking domestic population
saps demand for their products.  Asahi President Naoki Izumiya said in February the company
may spend 400 billion yen ($5 billion) on acquisitions this year.
C.I. Holdings is led by Chief Executive Officer Erwin Selvarajah,
who also runs Permanis, and makes taps, toilet bowls and showers
in addition to its beverage business. Asahi spokesman Takayuki Tanaka declined to comment. Selvarajah didn’t return calls to
his office seeking comment.  Asahi today said it agreed to buy the mineral-water and
juice businesses of closely held P&N Beverages Australia Pty Ltd.
for A$188 million ($203 million). The Tokyo-based company is
also competing with domestic rival Suntory Holdings Ltd. to buy
 New Zealand ’s Independent Liquor, the Wall Street Journal
reported last month, saying the deal may be valued at $1.12
billion. Both brewers declined to comment on the report.  Sugar Subsidies  Increased competition and potential fluctuations in
commodity-related costs are among challenges facing C.I.
Holdings, the company said in its 2010 annual report. Last year,
C.I. Holdings said it renewed its franchise bottling rights with
PepsiCo for a 10-year term until June 2020.  In January, Permanis and other large beverage companies
were told they were no longer eligible to buy subsidized sugar,
resulting in a 38 percent increase in sugar costs, the New
Straits Times reported in April. C.I. Holdings reported a 25
percent drop in profit for the fiscal third quarter ended March
31 on higher costs. The company’s stock has jumped 20 percent in
the past month, trimming losses this year to 11 percent.  In 2000 and 2001, Permanis’s plant in Bangi, Selangor was
voted by PepsiCo as the most efficiently operated Pepsi-
affiliated plant in the world, according to the company’s
website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  