-- 
Most Stocks in Europe Rise, Greek Notes Climb on EU Aid; Zinc, Oil Advance

-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   J e f f   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 
2011-07-04T21:31:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/asian-stocks-euro-rise-as-greek-concerns-ease-after-aid-baht-strengthens.html
Stocks rose in  Europe  and Greek two-
year notes advanced for a fifth day after officials approved an
aid payment to Greece to prevent a default. Zinc climbed to a
two-month high and oil advanced.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index added 0.2 percent as more than
two stocks gained for every one that fell, while  Canada ’s
Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index increased 0.6 percent at 4
p.m. in New York. U.S. markets were closed for the Independence
Day holiday. Thai stocks jumped the most in 14 months after the
opposition won elections. The Greek two-year note yield dropped
below 26 percent for the first time since June 14. Zinc rose 1.4
percent while oil climbed 0.1 percent to near a two-week high.  Europe’s finance ministers authorized an 8.7 billion-euro
($12.6 billion) loan payout to  Greece  by mid-July and said they
would aim to complete talks with banks on maintaining their
Greek debt holdings within weeks. Stocks pared gains after S&P
said a rollover plan serving as the basis for talks between
investors and governments would qualify as a distressed exchange
and prompt a “selective default” rating.  “The threat by S&P to put Greece in selective default in
case of a debt rollover seems to be the proverbial ‘fly in the
soup’ for risk appetite as the week opens,” Greg Venizelos, a
credit strategist at BNP Paribas SA in London, wrote in a note.
“Overall however, we are in a better place risk-wise than this
time last week.”  The gain in the Stoxx 600 extended last week’s biggest
rally in almost a year.  RWE AG (RWE)  rose 0.8 percent after a person
familiar with the matter said the German utility is considering
a sale of its Npower unit. Strategists at Deutsche Bank AG and
Nomura Holdings Inc. turned bullish on European stocks, saying
it’s time to buy shares as risks to global economic growth wane.  Canada,  Brazil   Canadian stocks rose for a fifth day, the longest streak of
advances in six weeks, led by commodity producers.  Sino-Forest
Corp. (TRE) , the forestry company fighting a short seller’s assertions
of financial manipulation, climbed 30 percent after hedge-fund
manager Wellington Management Co. said in a filing it bought a
stake in the company. Brazil’s Bovespa Index gained for a sixth
day, up 0.8 percent, for its longest winning streak since April.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures slipped 0.1 percent.
U.S. stocks posted their biggest weekly rally in two years ahead
of the July 4 holiday. The gain helped the  S&P 500  erase about
75 percent of the decline suffered since reaching its high for
the year on April 29. Through June 24, U.S. equities had fallen
for seven of the previous eight weeks on concern the European
debt crisis would spread and the  U.S. economy  slow. The index is
up 6.5 percent for the year, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Greek Notes  Greek two-year yields slid 73 points to 26.11 percent, at
one point dipping below 26 percent to 25.76 percent. The Markit
iTraxx SovX Western Europe Index of credit-default swaps on 15
governments climbed four basis points to 222.  The euro advanced less than 0.1 percent against the dollar
and dropped less than 0.1 percent versus the yen.  Zinc gained as much as 1.4 percent to $2,398 a metric ton,
the highest since April 18. Gold climbed for the first time in
three days as some investors bought the metal after its drop to
a six-week low and as a weaker dollar spurred demand for an
alternative asset. Gold rose 0.9 percent in  London  to $1,496.50
an ounce.  Sugar and coffee fell in London, paring gains from last
week, while cocoa advanced.  Oil in New York traded near a two-week high, climbing as
much as 0.6 percent to $95.47 a barrel before paring to $95.
 Brent crude  gained as much as 0.4 percent after Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. said the “downside risk” to oil would be “reduced
proportionately” as sales of stockpiles from members of the
 International Energy Agency  might be less than announced.  Thailand  Election  The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed 0.4 percent, its
sixth straight gain and the longest winning streak since March.
The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rallied 1.2 percent. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index jumped 1.1 percent to the highest close
since May 4.  Thailand’s SET Index rose 4.7 percent, the most since April
2010, and the baht strengthened 0.9 percent against the dollar
after the election victory by allies of exiled premier  Thaksin Shinawatra . The Shanghai Composite gained 1.9 percent to the
highest close since May 20 after a report showed a slowdown in
manufacturing, boosting speculation  China  will refrain from
increasing interest rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
 Jeff Sutherland  in  New York  at 
 jsutherlan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Justin Carrigan at 
 jcarrigan@bloomberg.net  