-- 
Asia Stocks in Longest Winning Streak Since January on U.S. Manufacturing

-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-04T10:17:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/asian-stocks-advance-on-u-s-manufacturing.html
Asian stocks advanced, with the
regional benchmark index set for its longest winning streak in
six months, as exporters climbed after U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly grew and Europe prevented a default by Greece.  Samsung Electronics Co., an electronics maker that gets
about 20 percent of sales from the U.S., increased 2.7 percent
in Seoul.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker by
market value, advanced 1.5 percent in  Tokyo . Honda Motor Co.,
the automaker which receives 84 percent of its sales outside
 Japan , gained 3.5 percent.  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , the world’s
largest mining company and Australia’s No. 1 oil producer,
climbed 0.6 percent after the price of oil increased.  “The increase in the manufacturing index shows U.S.
consumption is favorable, and signals the economy will further
recover through the end of this year,” said  Takero Inaizumi ,
head of equity research in Tokyo at Mizuho Investors Securities
Co. “The investment environment is changing as concerns ease
about a U.S. economic slowdown and Greek debt.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.3 percent to 137.29 as
of 7:14 p.m. in Tokyo. The gauge briefly pared gains after
Standard & Poor’s Rating Services said a Greek debt rollover
plan may place the country in “selective default.” All 10
industry groups on the measure rose, driving the index to its
highest level since May 11 and its longest streak of daily
advances since Jan 4.  Regional Indexes  Japan’s  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average increased 1 percent. South
Korea’s Kospi Index climbed 0.9 percent and Australia’s S&P/ASX
200 Index advanced 0.4 percent.  Hong Kong ’s Hang Seng Index rose
1.7 percent and  China ’s Shanghai Composite Index gained 1.9
percent.  The Bangkok SET Index jumped 4.7 percent, the most among
the region’s benchmark gauges, after the Pheu Thai party, whose
head is Yingluck Shinawatra, the sister of an exiled former Thai
leader, won a parliamentary majority that may lessen the risk of
a military intervention.  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index fell 0.3 percent
today. The benchmark index for stocks in the world’s largest
economy last week recorded its biggest weekly advance since July
2009 as  Greece  lurched toward rescue and U.S. economic reports
bolstered the case for recovery.  The  S&P 500  index advanced 1.4 percent on July 1 after the
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index rose to 55.3
last month from 53.5 in May, the first gain in four months.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News estimated the index would
drop to 52. Figures greater than 50 signal an expansion. U.S.
markets are closed today for Independence Day.  Greece Debt Progress  Global stocks also rose on July 1 as Greece moved closer to
averting a default. Greece may receive as much as 85 billion
euros ($124 billion) in a second bailout aimed at preventing
default, Thomas Wieser, an Austrian Finance Ministry official,
said on June 30.  Increasing confidence about the Greek fiscal deficit
resolution and the  U.S. economy  boosted the shares of Asian
exporters, with the gauge for consumer discretionary stocks,
which include electronics manufacturers and automakers, rising
1.4 percent, the second-most among the 10 industry groups on the
broader MSCI Asia Pacific Index after utilities.  Samsung Electronics advanced 2.7 percent to 878,000 won in
 Seoul , the biggest support to the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.
Toyota, which receives 27 percent of its sales from  North
America  and 10 percent from Europe, gained 1.5 percent to 3,385
yen in Tokyo. Honda increased 3.5 percent to 3,220 yen.  Euro Advances  The euro earlier gained to three-week highs versus the
dollar and yen on speculation the  European Central Bank  will
raise  interest rates  this week after the region pulled debt-
stricken Greece from the brink of default. The currency then
pared advances after S&P said if a French plan allowing
bondholders to roll over their debt is implemented, it may place
Greece temporarily in a “selective default.”  Europe ’s common currency traded at 117.40 yen today in
Tokyo, after rising to as high as 117.74 earlier. This compares
to 117.14 at the close of stock trading on Tokyo on July 1. A
stronger euro boosts the value of European income at Japanese
companies when converted into their home currency.  “The European countries have put in so much effort the past
two weeks in having a plan to help Greece, and this is just such
a small technical issue,” said  Alex Au , Hong Kong-based
managing director of Richland Capital Management Ltd., which
oversees $300 million of assets, of S&P’s comments. “Eventually
they will do whatever they can to solve this.”  Energy stocks rose today as  oil prices  increased in  New
York , extending last week’s rally. BHP, which receives 17
percent of its revenue from petroleum, advanced 0.6 percent to
A$44.02 in Sydney.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , a Chinese offshore oil refiner,
gained 1.9 percent to HK$18.50 in Hong Kong. PetroChina Co.
climbed 1.4 percent to HK$11.54  BYD Climbs  A measure for energy shares rose 1.6 percent on the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index, as crude oil for August delivery rose as
much as 0.4 percent to $95.30, adding to last week’s 4.2 percent
increase. Prices are 32 percent higher through the past year.  Among other shares that gained, BYD Co., the Chinese
automaker part-owned by Warren Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
rose 10 percent to HK$27.70 after Berkshire Vice Chairman
Charles Munger said the automaker has the ability to recover
from missteps. BYD’s vehicle sales declined for 10 straight
months through May and the company reported an 84 percent plunge
in first-quarter profit.  China’s automobile-sales growth may recover in the second
half of the year after a slowdown in the first six months, the
official Xinhua News Agency reported, citing Dong Yang, deputy
head of the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  BYD rivals Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. and Dongfeng
Motor Group Co. gained 7.9 percent and 6.9 percent respectively.  Tepco Gains  In Japan, Tokyo Electric Power Co., the utility at the
center of the worst nuclear crisis in 25 years, jumped 20
percent to 393 yen after the country’s Chief Cabinet Secretary
Yukio Edano said he didn’t know anything about a possible
government proposal to split up the power company and
nationalize nuclear power operations. The stock was the steepest
increase on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index lost 1.6 percent this year
through July 1, compared with a gain of 6.5 percent by the S&P
500 and a drop of 0.3 percent by the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.
Stocks in the Asian benchmark are valued at 13.7 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 13.5 times for the S&P 500
and 11.2 times for the Stoxx 600.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 