-- 
Australia Services Industry Shrank in June on Currency Strength

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-04T23:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/australia-services-industry-shrank-in-june-on-currency-strength.html
Australia ’s services industry
contracted in June for the 10th month in the past 12 as a
stronger currency and the developed world’s highest interest
rates slowed the nation’s economy, a survey showed.  The performance of services index fell 1.4 points to 48.5
last month,  Commonwealth Bank of Australia (CBA)  and the Australian
Industry Group said in Sydney today. A figure below 50 indicates
contraction. A measure of employment in the industry also
remained below 50 for the 10th time in 12 months.  The nation’s service providers are lagging behind the
 mining industry , which is expanding to meet Chinese demand for
raw materials and pushing the job market near a level the
government views as full employment. The Australian currency
reached $1.1012 on May 2, the highest since it was freely
floated in 1983.  The index’s fall is “understandable given the negative
headwinds of the strong Australian dollar” and  Reserve Bank  of
Australia rate increases, “which continue to buffet the
economy,” Commonwealth Bank senior economist John Peters said
in a statement. “Media commentary about more RBA rate hikes
later in this cycle, and wide media coverage of the Greek debt
crisis have also helped deflate consumer optimism and
spending.”  RBA Governor Glenn Stevens said June 15 rates probably have
to climb “at some point” as “the underlying rate of inflation
is more likely to rise than fall.” He will hold rates today at
4.75 percent for a seventh straight meeting, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Greek Turmoil  Alan Greenspan , the former U.S. Federal Reserve chairman,
said in a June 16 interview with  Charlie Rose  in New York that a
default by Greece is “almost certain” and may help push the
 U.S. economy  into a recession.  The index’s gauge for sales fell to 51.6 from 53.2, while
the reading for new orders rose to 50.3 from 49.4. The wages
indicator dropped to 56.7 from 58.5, the report showed.  Today’s report, based on a poll of about 200 companies, is
similar to the U.S. non-manufacturing ISM index.  The report measures sales, new orders, deliveries,
inventories and employment for companies such as banks, real-
estate agents, insurers, restaurants, transport firms and
retailers to compile the overall performance of services index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  