-- 
Australian Retail Sales, Building Decline

-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 
2011-07-04T03:49:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/australian-retail-sales-building-decline.html
Australian retail sales unexpectedly
fell and building approvals dropped in May by the most in four
months, sending the nation’s currency lower on expectations the
central bank will extend a pause in raising  interest rates .  Sales dropped 0.6 percent from a month earlier and permits
to build or renovate houses slumped 7.9 percent, the Bureau of
Statistics said in Sydney today in separate reports. That
compares with the median forecasts in Bloomberg surveys of
economists for a 0.3 percent gain in retail sales and a 0.5
percent drop in approvals.  The Australian dollar fell as traders bet central bank
Governor  Glenn Stevens  won’t raise borrowing costs this year,
while shares of retailers including Myer Holdings Ltd. and  David
Jones Ltd. (DJS)  pared or erased gains. The  Reserve Bank  of
 Australia ’s 175 basis points of increases from October 2009 to
November 2010 helped spur the local currency’s 28 percent
advance over the past year.  “The RBA’s rate increases have put the squeeze on
consumption and housing and today’s data reflect that,” said
 Michael Turner , an economist at RBC Capital Markets Ltd. in
Sydney. “This week’s employment report will now be key for RBA
policy makers.”  The local dollar fell to $1.0745 as of 1:05 p.m. in Sydney
from $1.0766 before the data. The currency reached $1.1012 on
May 2, the highest level since it was freely floated in 1983.  Today’s retail sales report showed spending on clothing and
footwear fell 1.8 percent, and consumers spent 1.4 percent less
at department stores. They spent 0.4 percent more at cafes and
restaurants, the only category that gained.  Major Retailers  Myer and David Jones, Australia’s biggest department-store
chains, reported on May 11 declines in quarterly sales.  Melbourne-based Myer’s sales fell 2 percent to A$657
million ($706 million) in the three months ended April 30, and
Sydney-based  David Jones , the second-largest chain, posted a 1.4
percent drop in revenue to A$411.7 million in the period.  In a  statement  after its June 7 policy decision, the RBA
said it left rates unchanged as households continued to show
caution in spending and borrowing, and cited a higher rate of
saving from current income.  Today’s second government report showed the number of
permits granted to build or renovate houses and apartments
declined for a second straight month.  Approvals for apartments and renovations fell 20.1 percent
to 4,276 in May, the report showed. Approvals to build private
houses rose 0.7 percent to 7,814 from the previous month.  Australia’s economy contracted in the first quarter by the
most in 20 years as floods in the nation’s northeast cut exports.  Longer Recovery  The recovery from the disaster may be prolonged after a
June 9 government report showed employers cut 22,000 full-time
jobs in May, having shed 57,200 in April, the biggest two-month
decline in more than two years.  Jobs advertised in newspapers and on the Internet increased
3.7 percent from May, when they declined 6.5 percent, according
to an Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. report released
in  Melbourne  today. The fall in May was the steepest since March
2009.  Australia’s unemployment rate likely held at 4.9 percent in
June, a government report will show on July 7, according to a
separate Bloomberg survey.  A gauge of Australia’s annual inflation fell below the top
of the central bank’s target range for the first time in 11
months as costs slid for automotive fuel and clothing.  Consumer prices rose 2.9 percent in the 12 months through
June after a 3.3 percent advance for May, according to an index
compiled by TD Securities Inc. and the Melbourne Institute
released in Sydney today. The central bank aims to keep
inflation between 2 percent and 3 percent on average. Prices
were flat from a month earlier.  Stevens will keep the cash-rate target unchanged at 4.75
percent for a seventh meeting tomorrow, matching his longest
pause since taking the helm in 2006, according to a Bloomberg
survey. The governor reiterated in a June 15 speech that policy
makers will need to raise rates at some stage and signaled
inflation data on July 27 may be key for such a decision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  