-- 
BASF, Elementis Heat Stabilizers Cartel Fines Annulled by EU

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-07-04T14:57:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/basf-elementis-heat-stabilizers-cartel-fines-annulled-by-eu.html
BASF SE (BAS) ’s Ciba unit and  Elementis Plc (ELM) 
had 91.8 million euros in antitrust fines scrapped by the
European Commission after the regulator said its original
decision to penalize the companies was incorrect.  The European Union’s antitrust regulator today lifted the
fines on the two companies, after a ruling by the region’s
highest court in another case clarified the commission’s 2009
decision was “incorrect.” Elementis said it will be paid back
its share of the fine, 23.4 million euros. BASF’s Ciba had a
68.4 million-euro fine lifted by the commission today.  The Brussels-based commission fined 10 companies a total of
173 million euros in November 2009 for unlawfully fixing prices
of chemical heat stabilizers used in making plastic. Because
Ciba and Elementis took part in the cartel only until 1998, the
commission’s 2009 fine exceeded a 10-year deadline.  An EU court last month upheld challenges by  Edison SpA (EDN)  and
Air Liquide SA to separate decisions by the commission in a
development which lawyers said could help companies who seek to
avoid paying subsidiaries’ fines. In April, the commission cut a
fine against ArcelorMittal by 80 percent, saying it couldn’t
force the company to pay fines against the steelmakers’ units.  “As a result of today’s decision, Ciba/BASF and Elementis
will have to pay no fine,” for the heat-stabilizer cartel, the
commission said in a statement.  The total 32.5 million-euro fine for Elementis included a
portion for which  Akzo Nobel NV (AKZA)  was held jointly liable, said
Greg Quine, a spokesman for Elementis. Akzo is appealing.  The commission imposed the fines with the belief the 10-
year limitation period was suspended for all participants when
some companies filed a court challenge of the probe.  A March  ruling  by the EU’s top court in a case concerning
 ArcelorMittal (MT)  clarified that such lawsuits will only suspend the
deadline for the companies that bring the action. No such action
was taken by Ciba or Elementis before the 2009 decision and the
time period to fine them had therefore expired, the agency said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  