-- 
Belarus Independence Day Protesters Sentenced After 400 Arrests

-- B y   A l i a k s a n d r   K u d r y t s k i
-- 
2011-07-04T17:30:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/belarus-independence-day-protesters-sentenced-after-400-arrests.html
Belarusian protesters received
sentences of as much as 15 days in jail today after police
arrested almost 400 people yesterday during demonstrations on
the country’s  Independence Day , human rights groups said.  Hearings for those arrested began today. Jauhen Asieuski, a
rights campaigner for the Minsk-based Human Rights Center, or
Viasna, said he had information about 21 people tried today at
the city’s Frunzenski District Court.  “It looks like most of them have been sentenced today and
most received sentences of seven to 15 days in prison,” he
said.  Riot police in Minsk used tear gas to disperse protesters
as President Aleksandr Lukashenko, 56, faces growing unrest over
his handling of the country’s economic crisis. Belarus was
forced to devalue its currency by 36 percent in May. It is now
seeking loans from  Russia  and the  International Monetary Fund  as
it tries to close a current-account gap that was equal to 16
percent of gross domestic product last year.  Lukashenko, who has ruled the former Soviet republic since
1994, yesterday condemned what he described as a foreign plot to
topple him.  “Shameless scenarios of a colored revolution written in
the capitals of certain countries are foisted off on Belarus,”
Lukashenko said during his speech at the Independence Day
military parade in Minsk.  Police detained 210 people in Minsk, according to Viasna.
About 120 were arrested in Grodno, a city in western Belarus
near the Polish border, and dozens were held in Gomel and
Mogilev, according to the Belapan news service.  Alexander Lastovsky, a spokesman for the Minsk city police,
declined to comment on the number of arrests.  Olga, 25, wearing a black leather jacket, with her long
brown hair slightly unkempt after a night in jail, stood in
tears in front of Judge Liudmila Lappo’s court, waiting for her
case to be heard. A journalist at a state-owned newspaper in
Minsk, Olga declined to give her full name for fear of
retribution. She said she took part in the protest at 7 p.m.
near the main train station and was accused of hooliganism.  About 20 minutes later, Olga, smiling through her tears,
bustled out of the courtroom and hugged her sister. She received
a fine of 875,000 rubles ($177), a mild sentence considering
other accused were sent to prison.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aliaksandr Kudrytski in Minsk,  Belarus  at 
 akudrytski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  