-- 
Ben Ali Is Sentenced in Absentia to More Than 15 Years in Tunisian Prison

-- B y   J i h e n   L a g h m a r i   a n d   C a m i l l e   L e   T a l l e c
-- 
2011-07-04T16:42:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/ben-ali-is-sentenced-in-absentia-to-more-than-15-years-in-tunisian-prison.html
A Tunisian court sentenced in
absentia former President Zine El Abidine Ben Ali, whose ouster
helped inspire uprisings in the region, to 15 1/2 years in
prison for charges that include possession of drugs and weapons,
Judge Touhami El Hafi announced today.  Earlier in the day, two court-appointed lawyers stormed out
of the hearing after their request for the court to adjourn was
denied. “I decided to ask for an adjournment in order to
contact my client and even go to  Saudi Arabia  to meet him in the
next few days,” said Hosni Beji, one of the lawyers.  Ben Ali and his wife, Leila Trabelsi, were convicted in
absentia on June 20 of appropriating state funds and sentenced
to 35 years in prison.  Ben Ali also faces separate charges including the murder of
demonstrators and conspiring against the internal security of
the state. Protests against Ben Ali’s rule culminated in his
Jan. 14 flight to exile in Saudi Arabia. The outcome encouraged
popular uprisings across the  Middle East  that drove out Egyptian
President  Hosni Mubarak  and are continuing in Libya, Syria and
Yemen.  Ben Ali’s French lawyer, Jean-Yves Le Borgne, has called
the case against his client a “farce.”  “Forced to take on the role of scapegoat based on lies and
injustice, President Ben Ali has decided not to remain silent,”
Le Borgne said June 6 in an e-mailed statement. “The case
against him is just a farce whose only goal is to represent a
symbolic break with the past.”  The trial came after authorities said they discovered cash,
jewelry, weapons and drugs at two palaces after Ben Ali left the
country.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jihen Laghmari in Cairo at 
 jlaghmari@bloomberg.net ;
Camille Le Tallec in Cairo at 
 cletallec@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mahmoud Kassem at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net  