-- 
Best Consumer Credit Since ‘06 Reveals Loan Rebound Across U.S.

-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T23:01:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/best-consumer-credit-scores-since-2006-reveal-lending-rebound-across-u-s-.html
Michael Busick says his credit union
“was shocked” to discover his credit score was 812 of a
possible 850 when he applied for a $19,500 new-car loan.  The loan officer told Busick he rarely sees scores so close
to perfect, said the Charlotte,  North Carolina , math teacher,
who added that he always pays his bills on time and doesn’t
“overextend.” He got the funds in May.  The average U.S. credit score -- a predictor of the
likelihood lenders will be paid back -- rose to 696 in May, the
highest in at least four years, according to  Equifax Inc. (EFX) , a
provider of consumer-credit data. The ratio of consumer-debt
payments to incomes is the lowest since 1994, and  delinquencies 
have dropped 30 percent in two years, Federal Reserve data show.  Improving credit quality gives households the ability to
lift borrowing as concerns ease about rising gasoline prices,
hard-to-find jobs and falling home prices. A reacceleration in
spending would belie Morgan Stanley economist  Stephen Roach ’s
assertion that consumers will be “zombies” for years because
of too much debt.  “The financial situation of the household sector has
improved far faster and far more than everyone thought it would
two years ago,” said  James Paulsen , chief investment strategist
for Wells Capital Management in  Minneapolis . “People are still
locked into the view that consumers are facing record burdens,
and they are not. There has been a change that is sustainable
and durable.”  Willing to Lend  Bank senior loan officers reported a pickup in demand for
auto loans in the second quarter, following first-quarter growth
for all consumer lending -- the first increase since 2005,
according to a quarterly Fed survey released in May. About  29
percent  were more willing to make consumer installment loans,
the highest percentage since 1994, the survey found.  “The household deleveraging process is much further along
than is appreciated,” said  Mark Zandi , chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester, Pennsylvania. “This is
evident in the rapid improvement in  credit quality . ‘Zombie
consumers’ is a mischaracterization of the state of the American
consumer.”  More borrowing could help spur growth slowed by higher
gasoline prices, Paulsen said. That will make stocks more
attractive than bonds, pushing the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
up about 8 percent to 1,450 by year end, while raising the yield
on 10-year Treasury notes more than half a point to 3.75
percent, he said.  Fewer Defaults  Discover Financial Services (DFS) ’ shares have risen about 43
percent this year to $26.55 on July 1. The Riverwoods, Illinois-
based credit-card issuer reported a record second-quarter profit
of $600 million on June 23, more than double a year earlier, as
consumers spent more and defaulted less.  Fewer losses will benefit stocks of other credit-card and
banking companies, said senior analyst Brian Foran of Nomura
Securities International Inc. in  New York , who has a “buy”
rating on Discover,  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF)  and U.S.
Bancorp, Minnesota’s biggest lender.  Consumers have reduced debt by more than $1 trillion in the
10 quarters ended in March, according to  data  from the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, and Roach, nonexecutive chairman of
Morgan Stanley  Asia , says they will retrench “a minimum of
another three to five years.” While household obligations are
at a 17-year low because of increased savings and lower  interest
rates  since 2007, debt remains high, he said. He calculates that
it amounts to 115 percent of income, compared with a 75 percent
average from 1970 to 2000.  ‘Overly Indebted’  “What I worry about now is we are creating a whole new
generation of zombie consumers in the  United States ,” Roach
said in a Bloomberg Television interview with  Carol Massar . “We
need to encourage balance-sheet repair and adjustment by overly
indebted, savings-short consumers.”  Roach’s view is supported by economists who say the credit
that fueled the housing boom from 2002 to 2006 will take years
to unwind.  “It’s pernicious, it’s ongoing and it’s holding back the
growth because people are going to save more and spend less, and
this is a process that will last for several years,” said Kevin Logan, chief U.S. economist at HSBC Securities USA Inc. in New
York.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose to a 10-week high for
the period ended June 26 as gasoline prices declined, according
to Bloomberg’s Consumer Comfort Index. Expectations had soured
in the past few months following a 29 percent surge in regular
unleaded prices during the past year, according to AAA, the
nation’s largest auto club.  Falling Home Values  Unemployment climbed to 9.1 percent in May, the highest
this year, figures from the Labor Department showed June 3,
while the S&P/Case-Shiller index of property values in 20 cities
fell 4 percent from April 2010, the biggest drop since November
2009.  Even so,  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays
Capital Inc. in New York, says the growth in credit reflects an
underlying optimism, part of a virtuous cycle. As a Fed
economist in 2000, he published  research  that concluded “high
debt burdens are not a negative force” and the debt-income
ratio isn’t reliable in predicting spending.  “Stronger credit growth is associated with stronger
 consumer spending ,” Maki said. “When consumer credit is
growing, it is a sign that households have become more confident
about income prospects.”  Rising Profits  Craig Kennison, a senior analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co.
in Milwaukee, predicts lending profits will rise at  CarMax Inc. (KMX) ,
the largest U.S. seller of used cars, and at Milwaukee-based
 Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , the largest U.S. motorcycle manufacturer.  Their finance arms “have fully recovered,” said Kennison,
who rates both “outperform.” CarMax, based in Richmond,
Virginia, “is looking to take a larger share of the loan
originations at CarMax dealerships, a sign of confidence,” and
“Harley-Davidson is poised to see retail growth for the first
time in the U.S. since 2006.”  Households spent just 16.4 percent of their earnings on
debt payments in the first quarter, including lease and rental
payments, homeowners’ insurance and property taxes. That’s the
least since 1994, Fed figures show. Since the 18-month recession
began in December 2007, household obligations have dropped by
2.37 percent of incomes.  Even consumers still in trouble are in better shape, said
Mark Cole, chief operating officer for Atlanta-based
CredAbility, which provides nonprofit credit counseling
nationally. Clients have an average of $19,500 in unsecured debt
this year, down 30 percent from 2009 and the lowest in at least
six years. “We really see people’s credit quality is
increasing,” he said.  ‘Fine’ Cash Flows  Credit-card charge-offs “are collapsing” as companies
have written off debt of people unemployed for 27 weeks or
longer, who account for about 45 percent of all the jobless,
Foran said. “Consumers spend money based on their cash flows,
and their cash flows are fine.”  Discover’s rate of 30-day delinquencies was 2.79 percent in
the second quarter, the lowest in its 25-year history, company
officials said on a June 23 conference call with investors. The
nationwide rate fell in May to 3.09 percent, the lowest since
May 2007, according to Bloomberg data.  Jennifer Lahotski, 28, who has a marketing job in Los
Angeles, said she’s worked to repair her credit from 2007, when
it scored “absolutely below 660,” the minimum considered prime
for consumer loans, according to Equifax. The  Pennsylvania  State
University alumnus had been late on some bills and had an old
charge of $5 from a gym.  ‘Sent Them a Check’  “I went through each expense, each delinquency, and sent
them a check,” she said. “I turned myself into a hermit for
six months but I did it,” she added, eliminating most
restaurant meals and “random Target runs where you come out
with $50” of merchandise.  Lahotski, who has a Visa and an American Express card and
$15,000 in  student loans , said she is saving “a few hundred a
month,” with plans to buy a house when she can afford a down
payment.  Math teacher Busick, 33, who has a home loan and four
credit cards, estimates his near-perfect credit score has risen
from the upper 700s in the past few years. While he uses an
American Express card to accumulate frequent-flier miles on
Delta Air Lines Inc., he pays it off in full most months. Busick
says he strives to maintain strong credit.  “I don’t have late payments,” he said. “I pay all my
bills on time.”  Busick is eying a Sony television or Dell or Hewlett-
Packard computer that could cost $2,000.  “If I want something, I will get it,” he says.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  