-- 
Betfair Contests Germany State Gaming Proposals in EU Complaint

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   B o d o n i
-- 
2011-07-04T12:30:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/betfair-contests-germany-state-gaming-proposals-in-eu-complaint.html
Betfair Group Plc (BET) , a British online
gaming site, complained to the European Union over draft German
gambling rules it described as “discriminatory and
protectionist.”  Betfair said the state betting treaty, which is still being
considered by German authorities, would unfairly force it to pay
a 16.67 percent tax on all stakes. The law would also restrict
licenses for private betting companies to seven, according to a
complaint the company said it filed on July 1.  The state betting treaty would overhaul the country’s state
monopoly on sports betting and lotteries that was attacked as
unjustified by the EU’s highest court in a ruling last year.  “Although the federal states claim to be opening up the
market for sports betting, the current draft treaty is riddled
with disproportionate, discriminatory and protectionist measures
designed to keep private online operators out of the market,”
Martin Cruddace, chief legal and regulatory affairs officer at
London-based Betfair, said in a statement today. “If the treaty
came into force it would neither set incentives for customers to
play with licensed operators nor would it stand up to the
scrutiny of the” EU Court.  The EU Court of Justice ruled in September 2010 that
 Germany ’s betting monopoly, which only allows state-owned
companies to offer most sports betting, violates European laws
because it’s not coherent. The online-betting ban was upheld on
June 1 by Germany’s top administrative court, which said the
rules were in line with constitutional and EU law.  State Premiers  The leaders of Germany’s 16 states last month delayed until
October a decision on the draft rules, according to Kurt Beck,
the prime minister of Rhineland-Palatinate. State premiers in
April reached a preliminary agreement on the new rules.  Rainer Metke, a spokesman for the German state government
of Saxony-Anhalt, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment. Saxony-Anhalt is currently presiding over the talks
among the German states on the new gaming state treaty.  Chantal Hughes, a spokeswoman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
internal market commissioner, declined to immediately comment.
The commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, is responsible
for checking whether national legislation complies with region-
wide rules.  Barnier’s department at the Brussels-based European
Commission is conducting a review of gaming laws across the
region.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Bodoni in Luxembourg at 
 sbodoni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  