-- 
BlackRock’s Miller Is Avoiding Buying Aussie Dollar as China Growth Cools

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-04T07:27:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/blackrock-s-miller-is-avoiding-buying-aussie-dollar-as-china-growth-cools.html
Australia ’s dollar isn’t attractive
after the currency climbed more against the greenback than any
major counterpart in the past year, BlackRock Inc. said.  The so-called Aussie has surged as the  Reserve Bank of
Australia  raised  interest rates  to the highest in the developed
world to curb price pressures amid demand from China for the
country’s commodities. Chinese reports this month showed
manufacturing growth slowed to the lowest level since February
2009 and services industries expanded at the slowest pace in
four months in the Asian nation, Australia’s largest trading
partner. Retail sales in Australia dropped in May, a report
today showed.  “You need to have a very strong bullish view of the global
economy to want to stay in Aussie longs,”  Stephen Miller , a
managing director in Sydney at BlackRock, which oversees $3.7
trillion globally, said in a July 1 interview. “My view isn’t
optimistic enough for me to want to get involved in the Aussie
dollar.” A long position is a bet that an asset will rise in
value.  Australia’s dollar traded at $1.0746 as of 4:40 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0770 in  New York  on July 1, when it touched
$1.0790, the most since May 11. The currency rose to $1.1012 on
May 2, the strongest since it was freely floated in 1983.  The Aussie’s 28 percent advance against the dollar in the
past year is the best performance among 31 major currencies
versus the greenback, according to Bloomberg data.  China  Growth  Futures traders decreased bets last week that the
Australian dollar will gain against the greenback, figures from
the Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on an advance in the Aussie compared
with those on a drop -- so-called net longs -- was 46,897 on
June 28, the least since Jan. 25.  The Aussie will fall to $1.04 by December according to the
median forecast of analysts polled by Bloomberg News in what
would be the fifth-biggest drop among major currencies according
to separate surveys.  China’s economic growth target for this year is
“difficult” to achieve, Vice Premier Wang Qishan said in a
statement on the government’s website yesterday.  It’s hard to balance management of the economy and
inflation “given the complications and uncertainty in the
global situation,” Wang said. He made the comments in a
conference in  Hebei province  early this month, the statement
said.  China’s slowdown along with concerns about growth in the
U.S. and  Europe  has spurred a 6.3 percent drop in the
Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials since March 31.  Rates Support  The Australian dollar fell today after a Bureau of
Statistics report showed retail sales fell 0.6 percent in May
from the previous month, compared with the median forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey for a 0.3 percent increase. Home-building
approvals dropped 7.9 percent in May from a month earlier,
according to a separate statistics bureau report.  “There are better ways of employing risk in your portfolio
than buying the Aussie at the moment,” Miller said. He prefers
 New Zealand ’s dollar on prospects  Reserve Bank  Governor Alan
Bollard will increase record-low key rates as the nation
recovers from a Feb. 22 earthquake.  Benchmark rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and 2.5
percent in New Zealand, compared with as low as zero in the U.S.
and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific nations’
higher-yielding assets.  The RBA, which increased its target rate by 175 basis
points from October 2009 to November last year, will keep
borrowing costs unchanged tomorrow, according to all 28
economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg News.  The Aussie fell as low as NZ$1.2803 on June 13, the least
since Jan. 28, and declined 0.5 percent at NZ$1.2950 today.  “That’s not to say we see a fundamental deterioration in
the backdrop for the Aussie, it’s just that it’s come so far,”
Miller said. “Valuations are stretched.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at   rswift5@bloomberg.net  