-- 
Bovespa Extends Longest Rally Since April on Rate Bets, Greece

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-07-04T20:34:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/bovespa-extends-longest-rally-since-april-on-rate-bets-greece.html
The Bovespa stock index gained for a
sixth day, the longest winning streak since April, as traders
pared bets for higher borrowing costs in Brazil and equities
rallied worldwide amid optimism on Greece’s debt crisis.  Airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA and cosmetics
maker Natura Cosmeticos SA led gains for consumer stocks as
investors speculated the central bank will raise  interest rates 
less than previously estimated. Eletropaulo Metropolitana SA
surged on bets Brazil’s state development bank will sell its
stake. Brasil Ecodiesel Industria e Comercio de Biocombustiveis
e Oleos Vegetais SA, Brazil’s biggest biodiesel maker, jumped
8.3 percent as bets mounted it will merge with another company.  The Bovespa rose 0.8 percent to 63,891.31 at the 4:15 p.m.
New York time close. Forty-three stocks climbed on the index
today while 24 fell. The real strengthened 0.2 percent to 1.5530
per dollar.  “The market is believing that the central bank’s strategy
will be sufficient, not just to control inflation, but to
control the pace of the economy,” said Joao Pedro Brugger, who
helps oversee 70 million reais ($45 million) at Leme
Investimentos in Florianopolis, Brazil. The approval of an aid
payment to  Greece  is positive for the market, he said.  Yields on interest-rate futures contracts tumbled after
economists covering Brazil cut their forecasts for inflation and
gross domestic product expansion. The yield on the contract due
in January 2013 fell three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 12.64 percent.  Predictions  Economists cut their predictions for 2011 GDP growth for a
second straight week. The economy will expand 3.94 percent this
year, according to the median forecast in a July 1 central bank
survey of about 100 economists published today. That compares to
a previous estimate of 3.95 percent.  Consumer prices will rise 5.10 percent next year, down from
a 5.15 percent forecast the previous week. Prices, as measured
by the IPCA index, will rise 6.15 percent this year, the survey
found, from 6.16 percent previously.  Gol,  Brazil ’s biggest airline by market value, advanced 3.3
percent to 20.06 reais. Natura, Brazil’s biggest cosmetics
maker, climbed 2.5 percent to 41.10 reais.  Eletropaulo jumped 4.1 percent to 35.95 reais. Veja
magazine reported over the weekend that state lender BNDES will
sell its stake, without saying how it got the information.
Eletropaulo denied the report today in an e-mailed statement. A
press official at the bank, who asked not to be named due to
internal policy, didn’t immediately comment when contacted by
telephone by Bloomberg News today.  Biodiesel  Brasil Ecodiesel rose to 78 centavos. The company moved a
step closer to a proposed 2.16 billion-real merger after a
shareholder who opposed the deal lost control of the board, the
newly appointed chairman said.  The company, Brazil’s fourth-biggest biodiesel producer,
elected six new board members, including the chairman, at a July
1 shareholders meeting. The new board may be more willing to
back billionaire shareholder Enrique Banuelos’s proposed merger
of Ecodiesel with Vanguarda do Brasil SA to create a biodiesel
and crop producer, Chairman Marcelo Passaglia Paracchini said in
a telephone interview on July 1.  Most stocks rose in  Europe  and Greek two-year notes
advanced for a fifth day after officials approved an aid payment
to Greece to prevent a default. Europe’s finance ministers
authorized an 8.7 billion-euro ($12.7 billion) loan payout to
Greece by mid-July and said they would aim to complete talks
with banks on maintaining their Greek debt holdings within
weeks.  Second Request  Gains were partially offset as Cia. Brasileira de
Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar slumped on concern a proposed
merger will fail or be delayed, losing 1.2 percent to 72.09
reais.  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA filed a second request for
arbitration in response to the proposal to merge the retailer
with French rival  Carrefour SA (CA) ’s Brazilian assets. Casino says
the plan violates a 2005 agreement for it to become Pao de
Acucar’s sole controlling shareholder in 2012.  Separately, Carrefour’s board approved the plan. Carrefour
and Pao de Acucar would each own half of the joint venture,
which would achieve annual savings of 600 million euros to 800
million euros, the French retailer said today.  Casino’s Stake  Banco BTG Pactual SA investment fund Gama proposed the
merger plan to Carrefour last month, setting up a power struggle
with Casino, which responded by raising its stake in Pao de
Acucar to about 43 percent.  Pao de Acucar is willing to negotiate with Brazil’s
antitrust regulator, Cade, to win approval for the merger, O
Estado de S. Paulo reported, citing Chairman Abilio Diniz.  Two companies scrapped initial public offerings on July 1.
Perenco Petroleo & Gas do Brasil Participacoes SA, a unit of
French oil company Perenco SA, and Tereos Internacional SA,
Brazil’s second-largest sugar and ethanol producer by revenue,
both cited market conditions in halting the sales.  Traders moved 2.73 billion reais in stocks in Brazil today,
compared to a daily average this year of 6.47 billion reais,
according to the exchange. Volumes are typically lower when U.S.
markets are shut, as they are today for  Independence Day .  ‘Holiday’  The Bovespa rose July 1, posting its biggest weekly gain in
almost a year, after a manufacturing index unexpectedly rose in
the U.S. and traders in Brazil pared bets for higher borrowing
costs.  The Bovespa lost 10 percent in the first half of 2011. The
index trades at 10.2 times analysts’ earnings estimates, near
the lowest since March 2009, according to weekly data compiled
by Bloomberg. That compares to a ratio of 11.2 for MSCI Inc.’s
gauge of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Investors pulled 1.38 billion reais from  Latin America ’s
largest equity market in the year through June 27, according to
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in  Sao Paulo  at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  