-- 
Bovespa Stock Index Futures Decline as Economists Cut Brazil GDP Forecasts

-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   C u a d r o s
-- 
2011-07-04T12:27:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/bovespa-stock-index-futures-decline-as-economists-cut-brazil-gdp-forecasts.html
Bovespa futures fell, signaling the
 stock index  may snap a five-day rally, amid speculation Brazil’s
economic growth is cooling after economists cut their forecasts
for gross domestic product expansion.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar may
move after Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA filed a second request
for arbitration against the Diniz Group, which partly controls
the retailer. MPX Energia SA and OSX Brasil SA may be active
after Folha de S.Paulo said  Eike Batista , their billionaire
controller, is negotiating loans with Brazil’s state development
bank for loans for the two companies.  Bovespa futures slipped 0.2 percent to 64,110 at 8:12 a.m.
New York time. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 1.5590 per
dollar. The Bovespa rose July 1, posting its biggest weekly gain
in almost a year, after a manufacturing index unexpectedly rose
in the U.S. and traders in  Brazil  pared bets for higher
borrowing costs.  “Markets should continue to focus on credit and labor
market trends to get a better sense of the monetary policy
prospects,”  David Beker , an analyst at Bank of America Corp. in
 Sao Paulo , wrote in a note to clients. “Demand remains
strong.”  Traders in 2011 have moved a daily average of 6.47 billion
reais ($4.2 billion) in stocks in Brazil, according to the
exchange. Volumes are typically lower when U.S. markets are
shut, as they are today for  Independence Day .  GDP  Economists covering Brazil cut their predictions for 2011
GDP growth for a second straight week. The economy will expand
3.94 percent this year, according to the median forecast in a
July 1 central bank survey of about 100 economists published
today. That compares to a previous estimate of 3.95 percent.  Economists also cut their estimates for inflation this year
and next. Consumer prices will rise 5.10 percent next year, down
from a 5.15 percent forecast the previous week. Prices, as
measured by the IPCA index, will rise 6.15 percent this year,
the survey found, from 6.16 percent previously.  Carrefour SA (CA) ’s board approved a plan to merge Brazilian
assets with Pao de Acucar, intensifying a battle with rival
Casino. Carrefour and Pao de Acucar would each own half of the
joint venture, which would achieve annual savings of 600 million
euros ($870 million) to 800 million euros, the French retailer
said today. Casino says the plan violates a 2005 agreement for
it to become Pao de Acucar’s sole controlling shareholder in
2012.  Struggle  The merger plan was proposed to Carrefour last month by
Banco BTG Pactual SA investment fund Gama, setting up a power
struggle with Casino, which responded by raising its stake in
Pao de Acucar to about 43 percent.  Pao de Acucar is willing to negotiate with Brazil’s
antitrust regulator, Cade, to win approval for the merger, O
Estado de S. Paulo reported, citing Chairman Abilio Diniz.  Batista is negotiating with BNDESPar, a subsidiary of state
lender BNDES, to get a 600 million-real loan for energy company
MPX and 2.7 billion reais of financing for OSX’s shipyard in Rio
de Janeiro state, Folha reported, without saying where it
obtained the information.  Two companies scrapped initial public offerings on July 1.
Perenco Petroleo & Gas do Brasil Participacoes SA, a unit of
French oil company Perenco SA, and Tereos Internacional SA,
Brazil’s second-largest sugar and ethanol producer by revenue,
both cited market conditions in halting the sales.  The Bovespa is up 1.6 percent since June 30 after losing 10
percent in the first half of 2011. The index trades at 10.2
times analysts’ earnings estimates, near the lowest since March
2009, according to weekly data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares to a ratio of 11.2 for MSCI Inc.’s gauge of 21
developing nations’ equities.  Investors pulled 1.38 billion reais from  Latin America ’s
largest equity market in the year through June 27, according to
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Cuadros in Sao Paulo at 
 acuadros@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  