-- 
Bright Food’s Quest for Growth May Focus on Wine

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-05T01:34:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/bright-food-s-quest-for-growth-may-focus-on-wine.html
Bright Food Group Co. Chairman Wang Zongnan aims to raise the share of overseas sales at  Shanghai ’s
biggest food and dairy producer sixfold. After failing to buy
yogurt and sugar companies, Wang may now turn to wine.  Bright Food is considering a bid for Treasury Wine Estates
Ltd., two people familiar with the matter said on July 1.
Treasury Wine, the world’s second-biggest wine business, rose by
a record in Sydney trading yesterday.  Wang aims to add overseas companies in businesses including
sugar, dairy, wine, food distribution and manufacturing to help
boost revenue from outside China to as much as 30 percent of
sales in five years. A successful bid for Treasury will help the
government-owned group follow larger rival Cofco Ltd. in
acquiring vintners to tap demand in  China , where rising incomes
are boosting wine consumption.  “As living standards improve rapidly, Chinese people are
seeking a more delicate lifestyle in which wine plays an
important role,” said Jason Yuan, an analyst at UOB Kay Hian
Holdings Ltd. in Shanghai. Adding wine assets “may help the
company to diversify its revenue sources,” he said.  Wine consumption in China surged 75 percent to 3.5 billion
liters in 2010 from 2005, data from Euromonitor International
show. The market is estimated to expand to 6.1 billion liters in
2015, according to the London-based researcher.  ‘Young’ Dealmakers  “Our mission is to become a first-class comprehensive food
group in China and to have influence on the international
stage,” Bright Food’s Wang said in an interview in April. “We
are very young when it comes to acquisitions.”  Wang, who oversaw 22 percent growth in sales and a 45
percent jump in net income last year at Bright Food, will need
to replicate the domestic success overseas after unsuccessful
attempts at acquiring businesses abroad.  The group lost out to General Mills Inc., the maker of
Cheerios cereal, which agreed in May to buy a controlling stake
in Yoplait for about 810 million euros ($1.18 billion). Wilmar
International Ltd. last year outbid Bright Food for CSR Ltd.’s
sugar unit.  Bright Food had also inquired last year about acquiring GNC
Holdings Inc., the retailer of vitamins and supplements, before
the Pittsburgh-based chain raised $360 million in an initial
public offering.  ‘Right Thing’  “An overseas takeover is the right thing to do for a
company that aspires to have a global footprint,” said Wu Zhengwu, an analyst at AJ Securities Co. in Shanghai. Wu is the
top-ranked analyst on Bright Dairy & Food Co., Bright Food’s
flagship listed unit in Shanghai.  The group may raise as much as 6 billion yuan ($928 million)
this year selling bonds and listing a unit to fund acquisitions
and boost production capacity, Wang said April 1.  A  Hong Kong  initial public offering of unit Yunnan Yinmore
Sugar Co. may raise 2.5 billion yuan to 3 billion yuan, Wang
said at the time. A bond sale in China may raise another 3
billion yuan and Bright Food may also list its food assets as a
group in Hong Kong in three years, he said.  “To become a global company has always been our firm
goal,” Pan Jianjun, Bright Food’s spokesman in Shanghai said
yesterday by phone. “We have not contacted Treasury Wine or
made a visit to the company.”  The Melbourne-based vintner fell 2.5 percent to A$3.58 as
of 11:27 a.m. in Sydney trading, after climbing 8.9 percent
yesterday, the largest gain since the shares began trading May
11.  Wine Purchases  Cofco, China’s largest grain trader with  food production 
and processing businesses, signed a formal agreement in February
to buy the Chateau de Viand, a wine producer in  France ’s
Bordeaux region, Xinhua News Agency reported in February, citing
Chairman Chi Jingtao.  In September, Cofco agreed to acquire a wine factory and
vineyeard in  Chile  for $18 million from Bisquertt, according to
China’s State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration
Commission.  China is on track to become the world’s seventh-largest
wine market by 2013, according to a study by the Vinexpo Asia
Pacific industry exhibition and market researcher International
Wine and Spirit Record.  Bright Food’s countrywide distribution network would be an
advantage in the wine business, according to UOB Kay Hian’s Yuan.
“Bright Food, as a long time market player and a state-owned
company, has a vast distribution network. Distribution is the
most important factor for alcohol sales.”  Bright Food, which makes “Big White Rabbit” brand candy,
was established by combining four state-owned companies in
August 2006, according to its  website .  “Bright” is a brand created by Shanghai Yimin Foods Co.,
one of the four companies that merged to form Bright Food, soon
after the Communist Party took power in 1949.  -- Michael Wei . Editors: Suresh Seshadri, Dave McCombs  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  