-- 
Buy FTSE 100 Put Ratios on Slower Economic Growth, RBS Says

-- B y   C e c i l e   V a n n u c c i   a n d   J e f f   K e a r n s
-- 
2011-07-04T09:15:51Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/buy-ftse-100-put-options-amid-slower-economic-growth-rbs-says.html
Investors should employ a bearish
options strategy on U.K. stocks because a slowdown in global
manufacturing and rising inflation in emerging markets may
reverse the equity rally,  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  said.  Bhavin Patel and Richard Kind recommended buying the  FTSE
100 Index (UKX) ’s August 5,900 puts while selling twice as many August
5,700 puts, a strategy known as a ratio put spread. The
benchmark for companies traded in the U.K. surged 5.1 percent
last week for its biggest gain in almost a year. The measure
climbed 0.4 percent to 6,010.78 at 10:12 a.m. in  London  today.  The London-based derivatives strategists cited Ian Richards
and Graham Bishop, RBS equity strategists, who estimate that
lower global factory output and higher inflation in developing
nations may cause U.K. stocks to slump. Investors should put
more money into so-called defensive stocks, or those least
sensitive to economic growth, because inflation will boost rates
in developing nations, they said.  “They see two risks as determining the path for equity
markets: the coordinated softening in global manufacturing data
and the inflation backdrop in emerging markets,” the
derivatives strategists wrote in the July 1 report citing
Richards and Bishop. “The U.K. domestic picture will likely be
dominated by these factors.”  Miners, Energy Producers  The trade profits the most if the FTSE 100 falls to 5,700
at expiration on Aug. 19, Patel and Kind said. The index gets
more than a third of its market value from miners and energy
producers such as  BP Plc (BP/) ,  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) 
and  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP) , according to Bloomberg data.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  on June 29 clinched
enough votes to pass the first part of an austerity plan aimed
at meeting European Union aid requirements and avoiding default
for the nation. Greece may receive as much as 85 billion euros
($124 billion) in new financing in a second bailout, an Austrian
Finance Ministry official said on July 1.  FTSE 100 skew, a measure of prices for puts to sell versus
calls to buy, “has increased noticeably over the past two weeks
due to Greece concerns,” Patel and Kind wrote. “We would
expect this to decline in the near term as sentiment may improve
somewhat following the successful austerity votes in  Greece .”  Slowing Manufacturing Growth  Manufacturing growth is slowing from China to Europe,
creating a dilemma for central bankers considering higher
 interest rates  to combat inflation. China’s factory index fell
to the lowest level since February 2009 last month, while in the
17-nation euro area, a gauge slipped to an 18-month low in June.
German manufacturing expanded at the weakest pace in 17 months,
while Italy, Ireland, Spain and Greece contracted. In the U.K.
and India, output growth also slowed.  Europe’s debt crisis and slowing U.S. economic expansion
are damping demand for goods, putting pressure on policy makers
to delay further rate increases even as prices gain. Inflation
quickened to the fastest pace since 2008 in  China , exceeded 20
percent in Vietnam last month and sparked protests in India.
Euro-area inflation remained at 2.7 percent in June, exceeding
the European Central Bank’s 2 percent ceiling for a seventh
straight month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cecile Vannucci in New York at 
 cvannucci1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Kearns in New York at 
 jkearns3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  