-- 
BYD Surges After Munger Says Chinese Carmaker Can Recover

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T09:23:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/byd-gains-most-since-august-2009-in-hong-kong-on-munger-comment.html
     July 4 (Bloomberg) -- BYD Co. surged the most in more than
nine months in Hong Kong trading after  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
Vice Chairman Charles Munger said the Chinese automaker has the
ability to recover from missteps.  BYD jumped 10 percent to HK$27.70 for the biggest gain
since Sept. 17, while its Shenzhen-traded shares surged by the
10 percent limit for a second day.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire
bought a 9.9 percent stake in the automaker in September 2008.  Munger said on July 2 that executives at BYD “just put
their head down and try harder” when they fail. The carmaker
has lost about two-thirds of its market value since reaching a
record in October 2009. Vehicle sales declined for 10 straight
months through May and the company reported an 84 percent plunge
in first-quarter profit.  “Investors have been concerned about whether Buffett will
sell its holdings in BYD,” said  Harry Chen , an analyst with
Guotai Junan Securities Co. in Shenzhen. “Munger’s comments
about BYD are seen as a vote of confidence and helped push up
its shares.”  BYD’s auto sales have been pressured as  China  removed
incentives that spurred buying for cars with engines smaller
than 1.6 liters, such as the Shenzhen-based company’s F3 sedan.
Passenger-car sales on the mainland fell 0.1 percent in May from
a year earlier, the first decline in more than two years,
according to the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Sales Recovery  Other Chinese automakers surged today after China Business
News reported regulators are talking about loosening policies
for the industry and Xinhua News Agency said auto sales may
recover in the second half, citing Dong Yang, deputy head of the
manufacturers group.  Dongfeng Motor Group Co. rose 6.9 percent in  Hong Kong .
Guangzhou Automobile Group Co. climbed 5.2 percent, while SAIC
Motor Corp., China’s largest carmaker, advanced 3.1 percent in
Shanghai trading.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  