-- 
Cameron Pledges No Radical Change in U.K.’s Afghanistan Campaign Strategy

-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 
2011-07-05T10:17:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/cameron-pledges-no-radical-change-in-u-k-afghanistan-policy-1-.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said the progress being made by Afghan forces toward ensuring
the country’s security justifies plans to start withdrawing
British combat troops.  Cameron said on a visit to the Afghan capital, Kabul, today
that he’d be making an announcement to lawmakers in  London 
tomorrow about “a modest reduction” in the U.K.’s 9,500-strong
force next year. The prime minister, who’s pledged to have all
U.K. combat troops out of Afghanistan by 2015, said 426 soldiers
will leave this year.  “It’s right to start planning the withdrawal of some of
our troops,” Cameron said at a joint news conference with
Afghan President  Hamid Karzai . “We’re on track, it can be done
and we’re determined to make sure it happens in terms of the
time lines we have set out.”  The prime minister said while visiting British troops at
Camp Bastion in the southern province of Helmand yesterday that
the Afghan conflict is entering a “new phase.” President
 Barack Obama  pledged June 22 to withdraw 33,000 U.S. soldiers by
the end of next year.  “We are still properly engaged in Afghanistan and still in
one of the toughest parts of the country,” Cameron said. He
said yesterday that the reduction in troop numbers doesn’t
signal any “radical change” in strategy.  Soldier’s Death  Cameron had to cancel a visit yesterday to Lashkar Gah, the
capital of Helmand, so that his helicopter could be used in the
search for a missing British soldier. The soldier, who went
missing in the early hours of yesterday, was later found dead
with gunshot wounds, the Ministry of Defense said.  “There will continue to be incidents: the trick isn’t that
we have completely finished off the insurgency, but by the time
we transition out finally, the Afghan National Security force is
going to handle it,” General David Richards, the chief of the
U.K. defense staff, told reporters yesterday. “I’m confident
that all we’re seeing at the moment reassures us that the plan
is doable. We’re in a very comfortable space at the moment and I
can’t see why that should change.”  Concerns were raised about the ability of Afghan forces to
deal with the insurgency without outside support on June 28 when
Taliban guerrillas stormed the Hotel Inter-Continental in Kabul,
killing 12. A standoff between Afghan security forces and the
gunmen was ended when a NATO helicopter was called in to fire on
three militants on the hotel roof.  Cameron said today that the Taliban can’t win the fight and
called on them to be part of the future government of
 Afghanistan , drawing a parallel with  Northern Ireland , where
former terrorists have positions in government.  “To the Taliban, the message is very clear, stop killing,
stop bombing, stop fighting, put down your weapons, join a
political process and you can be part of the future of this
country,” Cameron said. “I’ve seen it in my own country, in
Northern Ireland, where people involved in trying to kill, maim
and bomb civilians, police officers, army personnel and even
politicians have become politicians themselves and are now
involved in the governance of that country.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Penny in Kabul, Afghanistan, at  tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  