-- 
Canada May Industrial Product and Raw Materials Prices (Text)

-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 
2011-07-04T12:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/canada-may-industrial-product-and-raw-materials-prices-text-.html
The following is the text of
the
industrial product and raw material prices report as
reported
by  Statistics Canada .  In May, the Industrial Product Price Index (IPPI) edged
down 0.2% while the Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) fell
5.2% compared with April. The major contributors to the
declines were metals in the case of the IPPI and petroleum
for the RMPI.  The decrease in the IPPI ended nine consecutive monthly
gains. The contraction of the IPPI in May was largely a
result of lower prices for primary metal products (-2.8%).
Petroleum and coal products (-0.9%) as well as lumber and
other wood products (-1.6%) contributed more modestly to
the IPPI decline.  Prices for primary metal products fell in May, mainly
as a result of a decrease in precious metals, led by
precious metal basic manufactured shapes (-26.1%) and
silver and platinum products (-7.5%). Silver prices lost
much of the gains made in April, contributing to the
decline in the prices of precious metals in May. In
contrast, the price of gold continued to rise, as demand
remained high because of continued sustained demand for
this metal.  All metals were down, with the exception of aluminum.
World demand for industrial metals declined, while
inventories grew.  Prices for petroleum and coal products fell 0.9% in
May, following increases of 8.2% in March and 4.2% in
April. The decline in May was partly a result of lower
than expected growth forecasts for the  United States .  The IPPI decline in May was moderated by higher prices
for chemical products (+2.1%) and motor vehicles and other
transport equipment (+0.7%). The increase in chemical
products was entirely attributable to organic chemicals
(+8.9%), while the advance in motor vehicle prices
resulted largely from the 1.0% depreciation in the
Canadian dollar against the American dollar.  Some Canadian producers who export their products to
the United States are generally paid on the basis of
prices set in US dollars. Consequently, the weakening of
the Canadian dollar in relation to the US dollar had the
effect of increasing the corresponding prices in Canadian
dollars. Without the impact of the exchange rate, the IPPI
would have fallen 0.4% instead of 0.2%.  In May, excluding petroleum and coal prices, the IPPI
would have edged down 0.1% for the second consecutive
month.  12-month change in the IPPI: Increase in May weaker than
the previous month  The IPPI rose 4.5% in May compared with the same month
a year earlier, after advancing 5.1% in March and 5.0% in
April. Of the 21 major commodity aggregations, 15 were up
and 6 declined.  Compared with May 2010, the IPPI advance was driven
mainly by higher prices for petroleum and coal products
(+31.2%) and primary metal products (+11.7%).  Year over year, petroleum and coal products remained on
an upward trend, posting gains since November 2009.  The largest contributors to the increase in primary
metal products were precious metals, particularly silver
and platinum (+79.4%), as well as precious metal basic
manufactured shapes (+49.0%). Copper and aluminum products
contributed more modestly to the increase, advancing 22.5%
and 10.1% respectively.  Chemical products (+6.8%) and fruits, vegetables and
feeds (+6.6%) made smaller contributions to the IPPI
advance in May.  In May, the 7.4% year-over-year increase in the value
of the Canadian dollar relative to the US dollar slowed
the IPPI advance. Without the impact of the exchange rate,
the IPPI would have risen 6.1% instead of 4.5%.  Prices for motor vehicles and other transport
equipment, which are particularly sensitive to the
exchange rate, fell 3.7% in May compared with the same
month a year earlier, continuing the downward movement
that started in October 2009.  Excluding petroleum and coal prices, the year-over-year
IPPI would have increased 1.4% in May, slower than the
growth rates observed from January to April, which ranged
from 2.1% and 2.7%. On a year-over-year basis, the IPPI
has been rising since May 2010.  Raw Materials Price Index: First decline after seven
consecutive monthly increases  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) fell 5.2% in May,
following advances of 5.8% in March and 6.9% in April. The
decrease in May ended a series of seven consecutive
monthly gains.  The RMPI decline in May was led mainly by mineral fuels
(-8.4%). Crude oil fell 8.9%, following substantial
increases of 16.2% in March and 14.1% in April. Crude  oil
prices  fell in May as a result of high inventory levels in
the United States, the general state of the world economy,
and weaker seasonal demand by refineries. At this time of
year, refineries suspend production for maintenance.  All major commodity groups declined in May except non-
metallic minerals, which registered no change. Apart from
mineral fuels, the largest contributors to the RMPI's
decrease were non-ferrous metals (-2.3%), vegetable
products (-2.6%) and animals and animal products (-1.2%).  The decline in non-ferrous metals in May was primarily
attributable to lower prices for zinc concentrates (-6.0%)
and copper and copper alloys scrap (-4.0%). Metal prices
were affected by weaker demand from  Asia  and an increase
in inventories and supply.  Lower prices for vegetable products was mainly a result
of a decline in natural rubber and allied gums (-12.0%),
with weaker Asian demand having a significant impact on
the prices of these products.  Excluding mineral fuels, the RMPI would have declined
1.9% in May, following a 1.0% advance in April.  Compared with the same month a year earlier, the RMPI
was up 25.4% in May, continuing the upward trend that
began in November 2009. The main contributors to the RMPI
year-over-year increase in May were mineral fuels
(+37.0%), non-ferrous metals (+22.5%), vegetable products
(+40.1%) and animals and animal products (+5.8%).  Year over year, if mineral fuels were excluded, the
RMPI would have risen 15.6% in May, similar to the growth
rate in April.  Note to readers  All data in this release are seasonally unadjusted and
usually subject to revision for a period of six months
(for example, when the July index is released, the index
for the previous January becomes final).  TheIndustrial Product Price Index (IPPI) reflects the
prices that producers in  Canada  receive as the goods leave
the plant gate. It does not reflect what the consumer
pays. Unlike the  Consumer Price Index , the IPPI excludes
indirect taxes and all the costs that occur between the
time a good leaves the plant and the time the final user
takes possession of it, including transportation,
wholesale and retail costs.  Canadian producers export many goods. They often
indicate their prices in foreign currencies, especially in
US dollars, which are then converted into Canadian
dollars. In particular, this is the case for motor
vehicles, pulp, paper and wood products. Therefore, a rise
or fall in the value of the Canadian dollar against its US
counterpart affects the IPPI. But the conversion into
Canadian dollars only reflects how respondents provide
their prices. Moreover, this is not a measure that takes
into account the full effect of exchange rates, since that
is a more difficult analytical task.  The conversion of prices received in US dollars is
based on the average monthly exchange rate (noon spot
rate) established by the  Bank of Canada , and it is
available on CANSIM in table 176-0064 (series v37426).
Monthly and annual variations in the exchange rate, as
described in the text, are calculated according to the
indirect quotation of the exchange rate (for example,
CAN$1 = US$X).  The Raw Materials Price Index (RMPI) reflects the
prices paid by Canadian manufacturers for key raw
materials. Many of those prices are set on the world
market. However, as few prices are denominated in foreign
currencies, their conversion into Canadian dollars has
only a minor effect on the calculation of the RMPI.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  