-- 
Carrefour Approves Pao de Acucar Venture, Intensifying Fight With Casino

-- B y   T h o m a s   M u l i e r   a n d   A d r i a n a   B r a s i l e i r o
-- 
2011-07-04T20:38:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/carrefour-sees-brazil-merger-savings-of-as-much-as-1-2-billion-a-year.html
Carrefour SA (CA) ’s board approved a plan
to merge Brazilian assets with Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao
Grupo Pao de Acucar, intensifying a battle with rival French
retailer  Casino Guichard-Perrachon SA. (CO)   Carrefour, based near Paris, and Pao de Acucar would each
own half of the new company, which would achieve annual savings
of 600 million euros ($873 million) to 800 million euros, the
retailer said today. Casino says the plan violates a 2005
agreement for it to become Pao de Acucar’s sole controlling
shareholder in 2012 and reiterated today that it considers the
proposal “hostile” and based on illegal negotiations.  The merger plan was proposed to Carrefour last month by
Banco BTG Pactual SA’s investment fund Gama, setting up a power
struggle with Casino, which responded by raising its stake in
Pao de Acucar to 43.1 percent. About 85 percent of the money
needed for the proposal is due to be provided by BNDES,  Brazil ’s
development bank, which said July 1 that its financing depended
on a “friendly understanding” among all involved.  Casino Chief Executive Officer Jean-Charles Naouri is due
to meet BNDES President  Luciano Coutinho  in Rio de Janeiro today
to discuss the matter, according to the bank’s press office.  “Since the beginning, Casino signaled they didn’t agree
with the terms or the way the operation was carried out,” said
Marcelo Varejao, an analyst at Sao Paulo-based brokerage Socopa
Corretora. “There are many points to be addressed.”  Pao de Acucar fell 1.2 percent to close at 72.09 reais at
4:24 p.m. New York time, retreating from a 12 percent advance
since the deal was announced on June 28, while the benchmark
Bovespa index advanced 0.8 percent. Carrefour fell 1.7 percent
to 27.69 euros in Paris, while Casino advanced 1.5 percent to
66.56 euros.  Brazilian  hedge funds  doubled bets that Pao de Acucar
shares will decline on speculation a proposed merger with
Carrefour’s unit in Brazil may fail to win approval.  Pao de Acucar stocks on loan, an indication of short
selling, rose to 6.957 million shares, or 496.3 million reais on
July 1, from 2.69 million shares, or 176.4 million reais on June
27, before the merger announcement, according to Brazil’s
clearing and depositary corporation. The average daily volume
over the past 12 months was 963,566 trades, according to
Bloomberg data.  ‘Betrayed Husband’  Casino said the plan requires unanimous support from the
board of Wilkes, its venture with the Diniz family that controls
Pao de Acucar, Brazil’s largest retailer. The Saint Etienne,
France-based company announced today that it has filed a second
request for arbitration against the Diniz Group at the
 International Chamber of Commerce .  “Naouri probably felt like a betrayed husband,”  Daniela Bretthauer , head of consumer research for  Latin America  at
 Raymond James , said in an interview at the Bloomberg office in
 Sao Paulo . “He lost confidence in Diniz because he heard about
the proposed merger through the media.”  Pao de Acucar issued a statement saying it hasn’t received
any details about the second arbitration request.  Casino and Carrefour are seeking to offset falling earnings
at home by reaching into emerging markets. Casino gets a quarter
of sales from Latin America, while Brazil is the second-largest
contributor to Carrefour’s revenue after  France . Brazil’s $1.6
trillion economy is the world’s No. 2 among developing nations
after  China , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Opposition lawmakers in Brazil have criticized BNDES for
financing a private transaction that may lead to market
concentration, according to the lower house’s website.  Brazilian billionaire  Andre Esteves , the 42-year-old chief
executive officer of Banco BTG Pactual, and Abilio Diniz, 74,
the chairman of Pao de Acucar, suggested the combination.  The merger also faces potential scrutiny from Brazilian
antitrust authorities because the combined retailers would
control more than 30 percent of sales in a third of
municipalities where they operate.  “For Casino, the project is unacceptable,” Christian Devismes, an analyst at CM-CIC Securities, wrote in a note to
clients today. “Its management has spent the past half-dozen
years patiently building up a leadership position in promising
emerging countries, and Brazil is in pole position for this
strategy.” Devismes has a “buy” rating on Casino.  -- With assistance from Felipe Frisch and Alexander Cuadros in
Sao Paulo and Alex Ragir in  Rio de Janeiro . Editors: Paul Jarvis, Robert Valpuesta, Francisco Marcelino.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adriana Brasileiro in Rio de Janeiro at 
 abrasileiro@bloomberg.net  