-- 
Chavez Videos Detail Daily Life in Cuba While Questions Linger

-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l
-- 
2011-07-04T04:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/chavez-videos-detail-daily-life-in-cuba-while-questions-linger.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  is
communicating from abroad via previously recorded videos that
detail his routine as he recovers from surgery for an undefined
cancer.  In the latest video released late yesterday and filmed July
2, Chavez is shown eating mango under a tree at a table with his
two eldest daughters. Wearing sunglasses, he discusses his
upbringing as a “poor, happy” child, former Cuban president
 Fidel Castro ’s homemade peanut butter and philosopher Friedrich
Nietzsche’s “Thus Spoke Zarathustra.”  Chavez surprised the oil producing nation on June 30 by
revealing that he had been operated on in Cuba to remove a
cancerous tumor. Neither Chavez nor his ministers have said when
he might return or exactly what type of cancer he has.  “I’ve been eating Fidel’s exquisite homemade peanut butter
and will have lunch with him today,” said Chavez, who wore a
track suit with the Venezuelan flag on it. “He promised me
lamb.”  Castro said that Chavez will surprise his enemies by
emerging victorious from his battle with cancer and that the
results of the operation have been “impressive,” according to
a  column  published late yesterday in Cuba Debate.  Chavez suspended a July 5 summit of Latin American and
Caribbean leaders and likely won’t return for bicentennial
celebrations the same day due to his rehabilitation.  Cuba Ties  The 56-year-old leader has ruled the OPEC nation since 1999
and forged strong ties with Cuba. His ministers have shuttled
back and forth to Cuba for cabinet meetings, while a group of
opposition academics and politicians led by Miguel Enrique Otero, editor-in-chief of the Caracas-based  El Nacional 
newspaper, published an editorial yesterday calling on Chavez to
relinquish power.  “If we accept that the recovery will be slow and require
specific conditions, it’s obvious that there will be a temporary
absence which should be resolved as stipulated in the
constitution, that the vice president takes over
provisionally,” the statement said. “It’s the legal, political
and human thing to do.”  Vice President Elias Jaua, who would replace Chavez were he
to resign or be stripped of presidential powers due to his
health or sustained absence, has said no succession plans are
being discussed.  Third Term  Chavez doesn’t need to provide all the details of his
illness and the president’s condition isn’t life threatening,
Jaua said yesterday in an  interview  published in the El
Universal newspaper. Chavez will seek a third-term to rule until
2019 in next year’s presidential elections, he said.  The leading opposition candidate, Henrique Capriles
Radonski, said he won’t press for Chavez to relinquish power
during his recovery, and will continue with plans to defeat him
at the ballot box next year.  Capriles, 38, said in a July 2 interview in Caracas that
the government should release information about how long
Chavez’s treatment will last and when he is likely to return to
 Venezuela .  “Chavez has a right to get sick, but the country also has
a right to know what his health condition is,” he said.  Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro, who recently returned from
a visit with Chavez, said that the president continues to
recover well and that the cancerous tumor in his pelvic region
was completely removed and hasn’t spread.  Maduro denied a  report  by the Barcelona-based newspaper El
Periodico that said Chavez has  colon cancer  which has infected
his abdomen and may have metastasized.  “The doctors removed the tumor completely and checked his
organs, which are in perfect shape,” Maduro said in a July 2
interview on the Televen television network. “It was a serious
operation of more than six hours. I can say that as of today
he’s recovering well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  