-- 
Chavez Tells Supporters He’ll Defeat Cancer

-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x   a n d   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s
-- 
2011-07-04T23:30:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/chavez-tells-supporters-he-ll-defeat-cancer-1-.html
Venezuela ’s President  Hugo Chavez 
told supporters that he will win his battle against cancer,
saying “we have started to beat the evil incubated in my
body.”  In his first public appearance since undergoing surgery to
remove a tumor in Cuba on June 20, Chavez said he will be under
strict medical control for some time. Chavez had initial surgery
on June 10 to remove a pelvic abscess.  Speaking from “the people’s balcony” at the presidential
palace in Caracas, Chavez told followers that he was in
intensive therapy for four days following the second operation.
“It’s a miracle I am here considering how I was,” he said.  Chavez returned from Cuba early this morning after being
seen off by Cuba’s President  Raul Castro  in Havana. Government
officials lacking Chavez’s clout with Venezuela’s poor have
struggled to fill the void left by the convalescing leader, who
arrived to Cuba on June 9. His return is an attempt to silence
opponents who had been pressuring him to temporarily relinquish
power, said Diego Moya-Ocampos, a political risk analyst with
London-based IHS Global Insight.  “There was pressure for the president to come back,”
Moya-Ocampos said in a phone interview. “I think he was advised
it was unsustainable for him to continue ruling from Cuba.”  Venezuela tomorrow celebrates its 200th anniversary of
independence from  Spain .  Cabinet Shuffle  Caracas-based newspaper El Mundo reported yesterday that
Chavez may name Foreign Minister Nicolas Maduro to replace Vice
President Elias Jaua, 41, before flying back to  Havana  to
continue his cancer treatment. Henry Rangel Silva, the head of
the military, may take over as Defense Minister, the newspaper
said, citing government officials it did not name.  Maduro and Silva both traveled to Cuba last week for a
meeting with Chavez as the government tried to burnish an image
of normalcy amid the political crisis.  “Maduro was one of the few top government officials that
along with the Castro brothers was really informed about what
was going on with Chavez’s state of health,” Moya-Ocampos said.
“Jaua is seen as young and a bit inexperienced to deal with a
crisis of this magnitude.”  Chavez was met on his return at 2 a.m. local time by his
brother Adan Chavez, Jaua and several other members of his
Cabinet. Jaua said Chavez had spent the morning being briefed by
ministers and that he was showing a strong will to recover. He
added later that Chavez will receive treatment at the
presidential palace and doesn’t need to go to the hospital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net ;
Corina Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  