-- 
Chile Peso Little Changed as Greek Concern Blunts Copper Gain

-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 
2011-07-04T19:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/chile-peso-little-changed-as-greek-concern-blunts-copper-gain.html
Chile ’s peso was little changed as
higher copper prices were offset by European debt concerns in
trading volume thinned by a U.S. holiday.  The peso fell less than 0.1 percent to 465.65 per U.S.
dollar at 1:29 p.m. New York time, ending a six-day winning
streak in which the currency strengthened 2 percent.  “Copper is high so that strengthens the peso although
volume is very low because of the U.S. holiday and there are
still some concerns regarding the situation in Europe,” said
Flavio Magnasco, an economist at Banco Falabella in Santiago.  Standard & Poor’s  said a plan to rollover Greek sovereign
debt, which is serving as the basis for talks between investors
and governments, would qualify as a distressed exchange and
prompt a “selective default” grade. That may leave bondholders
unwilling to complete the transaction and the  European Central
Bank  unable to accept Greek government debt as collateral,
impairing the lifeline it has provided the country’s banks.  Copper for delivery in three months rose 0.1 percent in
London on speculation that China, the world’s biggest user of
the metal, may be near the end of monetary tightening after
 service industries  expanded at the weakest pace in four months
in June. U.S. markets are closed for  Independence Day .  Chile’s central bank sold five-year inflation-indexed bonds
priced to yield 2.68 percent, according to data published on its
website today. The bank paid an average of 465.53 per dollar for
$50 million today, as part of a $12 billion effort to limit the
peso’s gain, according to data published on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson at   ethomson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  