-- 
China’s Stocks Are ‘Most Attractive’ Globally on Economy, StanChart Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T06:04:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/china-s-stocks-are-most-attractive-globally-on-economy-stanchart-says.html
China ’s stocks are the “most
attractive” globally and investors should buy more of the
nation’s equities as the government achieves a “soft landing”
for the economy,  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  said.  The benchmark Shanghai Composite Index rose 1.8 percent to
2,807.88 at 2:03 p.m. local time, extending a two-week rally, on
speculation reports showing a slowdown in manufacturing and
services will allow the central bank to end its policy
tightening campaign after four increases in borrowing costs
since October. The Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of so-called
H shares traded in  Hong Kong  climbed 2.3 percent.  “You should be overweight China on a three-month and a 12-
month view because the soft landing in China is successful and
we expect the worst is priced in,” Michael Preiss, chief equity
strategist at the London-based bank, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview from  Singapore .  The Shanghai gauge has climbed 4.5 percent since June 23,
the day before China’s Premier  Wen Jiabao  said efforts to stem
inflation have worked. Non-manufacturing industries expanded at
the slowest pace in four months in June, a report from the China
Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said yesterday. A
separate report on July 1 showed a manufacturing index declined
last month to the lowest level in 28 months.  Chinese regulators discussed the possibility of targeted
loosening of policies, including for small and medium-sized
businesses, local government finance vehicles and the automobile
industry, during meetings with economists, the China Business
News reported today, without saying where it got the information.  ‘Buying Opportunities’  The Shanghai Composite slumped as much as 6.7 percent this
year on concern inflation would accelerate and economic growth
would slow. The central bank has raised  reserve requirements  12
times and  interest rates  four times since the start of last year
to tame inflation that reached a 34-month high of 5.5 percent in
May.  The index is valued at 12.9 times estimated earnings
compared with the average of 18.9 times over the past four years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  said today Chinese stocks will offer
“buying opportunities” in the second half as valuations have
already factored in monetary policy tightening amid “less
aggressive” interest-rate increases. A slowdown in consumer
price inflation, more fiscal stimulus and increased efforts to
boost investment will also lift equities, the brokerage said.  Inflation Target  “We are turning more optimistic on the outlook for China’s
equity market in the second half of 2011,” said analysts from
Nomura, ranked first in 2010 by Institutional Investor in its
inaugural All-China Research Team poll. We “still expect a
soft-landing scenario.”  Premier Wen confirmed targets of 4 percent for full-year
inflation and 8 percent for economic growth during the annual
meeting of the National People’s Congress in Beijing in March.  Nomura raised Chinese industrial, material and consumer
shares to “overweight” and lifted banks to “neutral,”
analysts led by Henry Wu wrote in a report. They cut
telecommunications and utility shares to “neutral,” according
to the report.  “The China market is the most promising market among the
major markets in the world,” Preiss said.  --Allen Wan,  John Dawson  and Shiyin Chen. Editors: Darren Boey,
Richard Frost  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bloomberg News in Shanghai at 
 ishen4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  