-- 
China Banks Can Absorb Government Loan Loss, Bernstein Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T04:17:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/china-banks-can-absorb-government-loan-losses-bernstein-says.html
China ’s largest publicly traded banks
will be able to absorb credit losses even if 27 percent of their
loans to local governments go bad, according to brokerage
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.  Industrial & Commercial Bank of China (601398)  Ltd.,  Agricultural
Bank of China Ltd. (1288)  and Bank of Communications Co. may need to
raise a combined 100 billion yuan ($15 billion) to cover a
capital shortfall if the seven largest Hong Kong-listed banks
are forced to write down debt and meet Basel III requirements
this year, the U.S. firm said in a note to clients.  China’s first  audit  of local government debt found
liabilities of 10.7 trillion yuan at the end of last year with
79 percent being bank loans, the National Audit Office said last
week. As much as 30 percent of the local government financing
vehicles’ loans may sour and become the biggest contributor to
banks’ bad debts,  Standard & Poor’s  has said.  “The listed banks’ exposure to LGFVs will not be as
negative as the market is currently pricing in,” analysts led
by  Mike Werner  in  Hong Kong  wrote. “We do not expect the LGFV
loan issues for the unlisted banks will result in systemic risk
for the banking sector as the government is unlikely to let the
policy banks default.”  Local government financing vehicles account for about 9
percent of domestic loans for the seven biggest banks listed in
Hong Kong, Werner wrote.  City Bank Concerns  Chinese regulators are most concerned with the high levels
of local government debt held by the nation’s unlisted policy
banks, which are state-owned lenders established to fund
government strategies and projects, and smaller city lenders,
Werner wrote. Those banks lack access to equity markets to cover
losses, according to the note.  ICBC, Agricultural Bank and Bank of Communications raised
about $35 billion last year through share sales, according to
data complied by Bloomberg.  Loans to local government financing vehicles account for
about 40 percent of outstanding debt at China  Development Bank 
Co., the nation’s largest policy lender, the brokerage
estimated. That’s the most among any Chinese banks. The lender
is mandated to finance long-term infrastructure projects.  Such loans account for 25 percent of advances from
Agricultural Development Bank of China and other city and rural
lenders, the brokerage estimated.  Government Solution  Under a “bear case” scenario in which 27 percent of local
government loans soured, China Citic Bank Corp.’s 2011 earnings
would be almost completely erased, while China Merchants Bank
Co. and  China Construction Bank Corp. (939)  would have about half of
their profit eliminated, the brokerage said.  “The low valuations of the Chinese banks more than
discount their exposure to local governments,” according to
Werner’s note. “But, it’s probably the case that the market
does not get comfortable with the banks’ LGFV exposures until
the government provides a comprehensive solution,” it said.  Shares of Beijing-based ICBC are traded in Hong Kong at 8.5
times its estimated earnings, the cheapest level in more than
two years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The stock
rose 1.9 percent to HK$6.02 as of 11:59 a.m.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  