-- 
China Still Faces Inflationary Pressure, Central Bank Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T11:22:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/china-still-faces-inflationary-pressure-central-bank-says-1-.html
  China  still faces “large”
inflationary pressure and the central bank will maintain a
“prudent” monetary policy, the People’s Bank of China said
today.  “We must pay close attention to the latest international
and domestic economic and financial trends and influences, and
implement a prudent monetary policy,” the central bank said in
a statement after a meeting of its monetary policy committee.  Premier  Wen Jiabao  said last month the government would
have difficulties meeting its annual 4 percent inflation target
although the overall level of prices is “controllable” and is
expected to drop steadily. Surging vegetable and pork prices,
and higher wages and raw-material costs may have pushed
consumer-price gains to an almost three year high in June.  Inflation likely accelerated to 6.4 percent last month, a
figure likely to prompt the fifth increase in  interest rates 
since October, according to UBS AG China economist  Wang Tao .
China International Capital Corp. economists estimate prices may
have jumped 6.2 percent in June compared with 5.5 percent in May
that was the fastest in 34 months.  In an article published today, central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan indicated that tackling inflation remains the
government’s priority. He reiterated government pledges to
improve the nation’s exchange-rate mechanism.  Exchange-Rate Flexibility  The PBOC aims to “enhance exchange-rate flexibility and
maintain the basic stability of the yuan’s exchange rate at a
reasonable and balanced level,” Zhou wrote in a commentary in
the latest edition of China Finance, a magazine published by the
central bank.  Yuan forwards rose for a fifth day, the longest winning
streak since March, on speculation policy makers will combat
inflation by letting the currency appreciate.  The People’s Bank of China set the currency’s reference
rate 0.04 percent higher at 6.4661 per dollar, the strongest
level since July 2005.  “Curbing inflation remains the focus of the Chinese
government policy this year,” said Tommy Ong, senior vice-
president of treasury and markets at DBS Bank ( Hong Kong ) Ltd.
“As interest-rate hikes and administrative measures harm
economic growth, China would opt to let the yuan rise faster to
lower imported inflation.”  Echoing comments from the monetary policy committee, Zhou
said the central bank will continue with its prudent monetary
policy while keeping prices stable.  ‘Prevent Big Swings’  Zhou’s article was published along with pieces written by
the heads of China’s banking, insurance and securities
regulators as part of a special edition of the magazine to
celebrate the Communist Party’s 90th anniversary.  Zhou also said China needs to improve the regulatory system
governing systemically important financial institutions and use
various market-oriented tools to manage liquidity in a bid to
“prevent big swings in economic growth”.  The central bank will maintain a “reasonable” level of
society-wide financing, the monetary policy committee said today,
a reference to a monetary indicator for liquidity in the economy
that includes corporate bonds and stock sales, and off-balance
sheet lending in addition to bank loans.  “The economy is heading in the expected direction but the
country’s economic and financial situation is still
complicated,” the monetary policy committee said. “The world
economic recovery remains slow and still faces many risks.”  --Victoria Ruan, with assistance from Fion Li in Hong Kong.
Editors: Nerys Avery, Jake Lloyd-Smith  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7570
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst in Hong Kong at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  