-- 
Construction Index Falls, Confidence Weakens ‘Sharply’ on Slowdown Concern

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-07-04T09:01:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/construction-index-falls-confidence-weakens-sharply-on-slowdown-concern.html
U.K. construction growth slowed in
June as demand dropped and confidence weakened “sharply” to
its lowest since December, a survey showed.  A gauge of building activity based on a survey of
purchasing managers fell to 53.6 from 54 in May, Markit
Economics and the  Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply 
said in an e-mailed statement in  London  today. A reading above
50 indicates expansion.  The decline in confidence is a “worry” and “suggests
that companies are expecting growth to weaken,” Markit
economist Sarah Bingham said in the statement. “That is perhaps
not altogether surprising given a marked easing in the rate of
expansion of new business inflows.”  The deepest government spending cuts since World War II and
banks’ rationing of credit are weighing on  consumer confidence 
and the housing market.  Bank of England  policy makers will keep
their benchmark interest rate and bond program on hold this week
as industry surveys add to signs that the economic recovery is
faltering, economists forecast.  Manufacturing growth unexpectedly slowed in June to its
weakest since September 2009 as waning global demand reduced
orders, according to a July 1 report by Markit and CIPS. A
survey due to be published tomorrow will show services expansion
also eased, according to the median of 26 forecasts in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Demand Weakens  While new orders at U.K. builders increased for a 16th
month, June’s increase was the weakest since January, today’s
report showed. Markit and CIPS said a decline in the conversion
of bids to contract wins may have resulted in slower growth of
new business.  Residential construction fell in June from May and
commercial-construction growth slowed, the survey found. Civil
engineering expanded.  The report showed that input-cost inflation for builders
remained “elevated” in June as raw material and fuel prices
increased.  Taylor Wimpey Plc , Britain’s second-largest homebuilder by
volume, said last week that first-half home sales in the U.K.
fell by 5 percent as banks restricted mortgage lending.  The Bank of England will hold the key interest rate at 0.5
percent this week, according to all 51 economists in a Bloomberg
survey. Officials will also keep their bond plan at 200 billion
pounds ($323 billion), say all 32 economists in a separate poll.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  