-- 
Copper Advances on Speculation China Is Near End of Tightening

-- B y   A g n i e s z k a   T r o s z k i e w i c z
-- 
2011-07-04T17:28:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/copper-climbs-to-two-month-high-as-china-tightening-may-pause.html
Copper and zinc rose to a two-month
high in  London  on speculation  China , the world’s biggest user
of the metal, is near the end of monetary tightening after 
figures showed  service industries  slowed.  Service industries expanded at the weakest pace in four
months in June, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing
said yesterday. Growth in Chinese manufacturing was the slowest
since February 2009, a report showed last week. Copper also
gained today as workers went on strike at Freeport-McMoRan
Copper & Gold Inc.’s Grasberg mine in  Indonesia .  “We are getting toward the end of the tightening,” said
Nic Brown, head of commodities research at Natixis Commodity
Markets Ltd. in London. “As base effects start to reduce over
the coming six to nine months, we should see the end of the
Chinese tightening.”  Copper for three-month delivery climbed $10, or 0.1
percent, to $9,455 a metric ton on the London Metal Exchange,
the highest closing price since April 26. Investors bought and
sold 9,230 copper futures, a fifth of the July 1 total. Floor
trading on the Comex in  New York  was closed today for 
 Independence Day .   “One source of support is the unexpectedly sound U.S.
economic data announced on Friday,” Commerzbank AG analyst
 Eugen Weinberg  in Frankfurt said in a report. U.S. manufacturing
unexpectedly sped up in June, figures showed July 1, signaling
the world’s largest economy and second-ranking copper user may
be starting to rebound.  Rate Increases  China’s central bank raised  reserve requirements  12 times
and  interest rates  four times since the start of last year to
tame inflation that climbed to 5.5 percent in May, the fastest
pace in almost three years. Speculation that borrowing-cost
increases may be near an end helped the Shanghai Composite Index
of shares to close today at the highest level since May 20.  Workers at Grasberg started a seven-day strike demanding
wage increases, company spokesman Ramdani Sirait in Jakarta
said. About 8,000 non-staff workers are members of the union and
not all of them are on strike, he said.  “This is a market in which any kind of problem on the
supply side just tightens what is already a difficult
situation,” Natixis’s Brown said. “It’s a constant reminder
the copper market is in a situation of tight supply and will
remain that way until the big mines that are arising late 2013
and onwards will finally turn up.”  Tin for three-month delivery on the LME was little changed
at $25,650 a ton and aluminum increased 0.3 percent to $2,511 a
ton. Zinc rose 1.4 percent to $2,398 a ton, the highest closing 
price since April 15. Nickel climbed 0.8 percent to $23,175 a 
ton and lead advanced 0.4 percent to $2,684 a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnieszka Troszkiewicz in London at 
 atroszkiewic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  