-- 
Correlation With Treasuries Drives Up Yields: Mexico Credit

-- B y   Y e   X i e   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-04T22:25:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/correlation-with-treasuries-drives-up-yields-mexico-credit.html
Mexican  government bonds  are posting
their worst slide in four months as a sell-off in U.S.
Treasuries prompts investors to demand a bigger yield premium to
own the Latin American country’s fixed-income assets.  Yields on Mexico’s benchmark peso bonds due in 2024 rose 17
basis points in the past month, the biggest monthly increase
since March, to 7.20 percent yesterday, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Similar-maturity Colombian notes rallied
during the same period, with yields falling 16 basis points, or
0.16 percentage point, to 7.87 percent. The yield on  Brazil ’s
10-year bond fell four basis points to 12.39 percent.  The slump in Treasuries is overshadowing a slowdown in
inflation in Latin America’s second-biggest economy that has
prompted the country’s central bank to keep  interest rates  at a
record low. Debt sold by the U.S, the destination for 80 percent
of Mexico’s exports, fell last week, pushing yields on the 10-
year note up 32 basis points. Mexican bonds have the highest
correlation with  U.S. debt  in  Latin America , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “For now, I’d be careful about the fixed-income market in
Mexico,” Dirk Willer, head of Latin American local markets
strategy at Citigroup Inc. in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “The backend is obviously most susceptible to
Treasury prices. They cannot really decouple.”  Easing concern  Greece  may default and signs the U.S.
economic expansion is picking up are curbing demand for the
safest assets, sparking the biggest weekly increase in 10-Year
Treasury yields since August 2009. A rally in Treasuries in
April and May helped push yields on Mexico’s bonds down 79 basis
points.  Correlation  The 30-day correlation coefficient between 10-year Mexican
bonds and Treasuries reached a five-month high of 0.63 on June
15, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with
readings of 0.26 for Brazilian debt and 0.38 for Colombian notes.
A reading of 1 indicates the two always move in the same
direction.  “Mexico really just trades on the U.S.,”  Siobhan Morden ,
head of Latin American strategy at RBS Securities Inc. in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview. “Until
Mexico differentiates itself in terms of credit risk or  currency
risk  or inflation risk, it’s just going to trade on
Treasuries.”  An official at the  Finance Ministry  declined to comment.  Inflation in Mexico slowed to 3.2 percent in the 12 months
through mid-June and reached a five-year low of 3.04 percent in
March. Prices in the U.S. rose 3.6 percent in May.  Rate Outlook  Mexican central bankers led by Governor Agustin Carstens
held the lending rate at 4.5 percent last month, the only major
Latin American country to keep borrowing costs unchanged in the
past year. The  Federal Reserve  will keep the overnight benchmark
lending rate between zero and 0.25 percent for at least two or
three more policy meetings, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on
June 22.  Yields on futures contracts for the 28-day TIIE interbank
rate due in January was unchanged at 4.94 percent, indicating
traders expect the central bank to raise the rate in February.  The peso gained 0.2 percent to 11.5893 per  U.S. dollar  at 5
p.m.  New York  time.  The extra yield investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries narrowed one basis point
on July 1 to 122, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  ‘Attractive’  The cost to protect Mexican debt against non-payment for
five years fell one basis point to 106, according to data
provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.
Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange for
the underlying securities or the cash equivalent if a government
or company fails to adhere to its debt agreements.  Enzo Puntillo, who oversees $1.5 billion of assets as head
of emerging-market fixed income at Swiss & Global Asset
Management AG in Zurich, said he’s “overweight” Mexican bonds
because yields are “attractive” after adjusting for inflation.  “What we have now is the kind of the sympathy to the U.S.
selloff recently,” Puntillo said in a telephone interview.
“But we think the value in  Mexico ’s long-end is still decently
high. Real rates are more attractive than U.S. Treasuries.”  Mexican peso bonds lost 0.5 percent in dollar terms in the
past month, paring their advance this year to 10 percent,
according to data compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. U.S.
Treasuries fell 0.9 percent in the past month, leaving them up
2.1 percent in 2011.  Yield Forecast  The prospect of an acceleration of economic growth in the
U.S. may cause the slump in Treasuries to deepen, driving up
yields on Mexican peso bonds, Citigroup’s Willer said.  A U.S. report from the  Institute for Supply Management  on
July 1 showed manufacturing growth unexpectedly picked up in
June.  Ten-year Treasury yields, the benchmark for emerging-market
assets, will rise 45 basis points by year-end to 3.63 percent, a
level it last touched in February, according to Bloomberg
surveys.  “I still think the odds are for better U.S. data in the
second half, so if that’s the case, the selloff is not done,”
Willer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ye Xie in New York at 
 yxie6@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  