-- 
Danish Bank Profits to Suffer Amid ‘Costly’ Funding Squeeze, Moody’s Says

-- B y   A d a m   E w i n g
-- 
2011-07-05T14:50:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/danish-bank-profits-to-suffer-amid-costly-funding-squeeze-moody-s-says.html
Denmark’s banks face a decline in
earnings as the fallout from  Europe ’s toughest resolution laws
sends funding costs higher in the Nordic country, Moody’s
Investors Service Senior Vice President Janne Thomsen said.  “We are worried about the loans to farmers, still worried
about commercial real estate and we are also worried about the
earnings of the banks because funding is going to be, and has
shown to be, much more costly than it was in the past,” Thomsen
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  The June 24 failure of Fjordbank Mors A/S, a regional
lender with about $1.4 billion in deposits, underlined the
state’s commitment to resolution laws that force senior
creditors to share losses, Moody’s said yesterday in a note. The
government’s goal of avoiding more insolvencies by encouraging
consolidation is so far proving “elusive,” the company said.  “The government proposed law changes to enable sector
solutions,” Thomsen said in the interview. “But we did not see
this happen in relation to Fjordbank.”  The difference between the Copenhagen interbank offered
rate and Euribor held at the widest in two months last week, at
5.8 basis points. It was 5.7 percent yesterday. Credit default
swaps on senior debt issued by Danske Bank A/S,  Denmark ’s
biggest lender, last week touched the highest in two years.  Shares Decline  Danske Bank shares declined as much as 1.7 percent today
and were down 1.3 percent at 100.7 kroner at 4:34 p.m. in
Copenhagen. Jyske Bank A/S, the second-biggest Danish lender,
fell as much as 0.6 percent, while No. 3 lender Sydbank A/S was
down as much as 1.6 percent. The 49-company Bloomberg Europe
Banks and Financial Services Index climbed 0.1 percent.  Denmark isn’t planning further measures to support troubled
lenders which involve taxpayer funds, Jacob Jensen, a spokesman
for the ruling  Liberal Party , said in an interview last week.
Doing so would send the wrong signal, given that it’s only “a
few small banks” that are in trouble, he said.  Denmark’s biggest banks have enough capital to withstand
the fallout from a spate of failures amongst regional lenders,
 Financial Supervisory Authority  Director General Ulrik Noedgaard
said in an interview on June 29.  The government’s “one target” for the country’s roughly
130 banks is “consolidation, consolidation, consolidation,”
Economy Minister Brian Mikkelsen told broadcaster TV2 on July 1.  Consolidation Bill  A bill passed last month that seeks to encourage industry
mergers and prevent troubled lenders from triggering Denmark’s
resolution laws has so far failed to prevent insolvencies. The
government is trying to encourage healthy lenders to take over
smaller peers in danger of failing by allowing them to tap the
Depositor Guarantee Scheme for funds.  Denmark may need to consider a more “flexible” approach
in how this bill is applied, Mikkelsen said, financial news
service FinansWatch reported yesterday.  The country’s healthy lenders, which were forced to provide
as much as 35 billion kroner ($6.8 billion) in 2008 to get a
state industry guarantee, don’t want a repeat of that bill and
will only buy troubled peers if such a move makes financial
sense, said Karen Froesig, chief executive officer at Sydbank.  “My plea would simply be that we don’t make it a general
package which requires commitments from all banks,” Froesig
said in an interview last week. “I don’t think bank rescues
should be funded by the taxpayer, but I also think it’s a
problem that there’s an expectation that the rest of the sector
steps in to rescue the weaker links.”  Vagn Thorsager, chief executive at lender Aarhus Lokalbank
A/S, said his bank would consider taking part in a consolidation
in 2013. He said the government will need to do more to support
the industry to avoid more  bank failures  and allow for mergers.  “There are a number of us, we are weaker banks, who are
fighting in order to survive and follow our action plans,” he
said by phone today. “I’m fairly sure we will be able to meet
our action plan and survive, then we can think about taking part
in a merger in 2013.”  Jens Borum, a spokesman at Jyske Bank, said the lender will
not be an active in a consolidation of the industry.  Refinancing Pressure  In the end, Denmark’s financial industry can’t avoid
consolidation, Thomsen said. Troubled lenders will need to
consider looking for buyers as they face refinancing deadlines
that collide with the withdrawal of the state guarantee in 2013,
she said.  “There is a large number of banks that have to refinance
government guaranteed loans and they may have some problems
getting this in place,” Thomsen said. “We think that
consolidation will happen.”  The state winding-up unit Financial Stability said July 1
it was accepting offers to buy part, or all, of Fjordbank Mors.  Fjordbank had the worst risk ranking of 99 banks graded by
researcher Niro Invest ApS, Copenhagen-based newspaper Borsen
said on June 23. It was followed by Aarhus Lokalbank A/S.
Denmark’s smallest banks have struggled with bad debts to the
construction and farming industries.  Loan Losses  Shares in Aarhus Lokalbank slumped as much as 6.1 percent
today. Max Bank A/S, the third-worst bank in Niro’s risk
rankings, lost as much as 3.7 percent, and traded up 1.9 percent
higher at 10.90 kroner at 4:07 p.m.  The country’s lenders may face “large” loan losses this
year with most of the risk coming from the real-estate and
agriculture, the FSA said on May 5. Denmark’s banks wrote down
36 billion kroner of bad loans last year, compared with a record
58 billion kroner a year earlier, the regulator estimates.  “We have a negative outlook on the Danish banking system
due to the asset quality,” Thomsen said. “The earnings of the
banks will come under further pressure.”  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Adam Ewing in  Stockholm  at 
 aewing5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net 
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 