-- 
Jeter Ready for New York Yankees Return After Rehab Stint in Minor Leagues

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-07-04T04:43:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/derek-jeter-ready-for-yankee-return-after-rehab-stint-in-minor-leagues.html
Derek Jeter  resumes his quest for
3,000 career hits today after completing a two-game
rehabilitation stint with the  New York Yankees ’ minor-league
affiliate in Trenton,  New Jersey .  Jeter, who has been on the disabled list since straining
his right calf on June 13, said he’ll be in the Yankees’ lineup
tonight in  Cleveland  for the start of a three-game series
against the Indians.  “It feels good,” Jeter told reporters last night during
the seventh inning of the Trenton Thunder’s 8-1 loss to the
Altoona Curve. “I’m looking forward to getting back and helping
the team play well.”  Jeter, 37, started at shortstop and went 1-for-2 from the
leadoff spot with a walk and a bunt single. He also helped the
Yankees’ Double-A team set a single-game attendance record of
9,212 fans at Waterfront Park. The crowd surpassed the 9,134
that attended  Roger Clemens ’s appearance on May 23, 2007.  The Yankees’ captain left the game after the sixth inning
as a steady rain started to fall in the New Jersey capital.  Yankees General Manager Brian Cashman said the team planned
to have Jeter play six or seven innings and opted to take him
out as the rain intensified. The Yankees have had a 14-4 record
during Jeter’s absence and are 50-32 overall, the second-best
record in  Major League Baseball .  “In the past two days, he’s had a chance to do a few
different things -- sliding into second base, beating out a
bunt, some defensive plays that were challenging -- all things
that can test that calf,” Cashman told reporters in Trenton.
“He passed with flying colors.”  No Effects  After walking in his first at-bat, Jeter struck out
swinging with two runners on base to end the second inning.  Jeter said he felt no effects of his calf injury when he
bunted and reached base without a throw in the fifth inning, as
fireworks went off in the distance.  The public address announcer said it was the 550th minor
league hit for Jeter, who has collected 2,994 over 17 seasons
with the Yankees. Jeter is seeking to become the 28th player in
major-league history with 3,000 hits and the first to reach the
milestone in a Yankee uniform.  Jeter was hitting a career-low .260 over 262 at-bats when
he injured his calf last month.  His only discomfort yesterday came from the U.S. flag-
themed uniform the Thunder wore in advance of the July 4th
holiday. The jersey featured wavy red and white thick horizontal
stripes with blue sleeves adorned with white stars.  “I was uncomfortable,” said Jeter, who was voted to the
American League All-Star team for the 12th time yesterday.  Cashman said he took a picture of Jeter in the uniform and
sent it to his Yankee teammates following their 3-2, 10-inning
loss to the  New York Mets  yesterday.  “I wanted to lift our guys’ spirits and try to send a
message not to get injured,” Cashman joked. “Otherwise you’ll
have to do a minor-league stint and might wear a uniform looking
like this, because here’s the captain today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Trenton, New Jersey, at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  