-- 
Deutsche Boerse Rivals Quizzed by EU

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   A o i f e   W h i t e
-- 
2011-07-04T15:45:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/deutsche-boerse-rivals-quizzed-on-derivatives-market-by-eu-amid-nyse-offer.html
Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  rivals and
customers were asked by European Union regulators whether its
$9.57 billion bid for NYSE Euronext would reduce competition for
derivatives and equity trading and clearing.  The European Commission, in a survey with more than 165
questions obtained by Bloomberg News, asked what effect the deal
to create the largest owner of equities and derivatives markets
would have on access to market data. They also asked whether  CME
Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest future exchange, may become “a
significant player” in trading or clearing European
derivatives.  Deutsche Boerse’s offer for NYSE Euronext would put more
than 90 percent of the region’s exchange-traded derivatives
market and about 30 percent of European  stock trading  in the
hands of one organization.  The number of questions is “unusual” and “shows that
people are still firing at the deal” by highlighting a large
number of possible problems to antitrust officials, said  Matthew Hall , a Brussels-based partner at McGuire Woods LLP.  ‘Usual Procedure’  Amelia Torres, a spokeswoman for the European Commission in
Brussels, said the questionnaire was “part of the usual
procedure for investigating mergers.” Frank Herkenhoff, a
spokesman for Deutsche Boerse in  Frankfurt , and James Dunseath,
a spokesman for  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  in  London , both declined to
comment.  The EU’s antitrust agency last week set an initial deadline
of Aug. 4 to rule on the deal.  Joaquin Almunia , the EU’s
competition chief, said in March that he expects to open an in-
depth review of the “complex deal” after the initial month-
long probe.  The questionnaire was sent out last week with a deadline to
reply by July 7, a “pretty difficult” limit that may see
companies seek more time, Hall said.  The EU asked companies whether they see Deutsche Boerse’s
Eurex and NYSE Euronext’s Liffe exchanges as direct competitors
and what their nearest rivals are.  NYSE Euronext Deputy Chief Executive Officer Dominique Cerutti in February said that the companies believe the EU will
approve the deal because they aren’t dominant in clearing or
derivatives. They hold only a small part of a global derivatives
market where the vast majority of trades are over-the-counter,
he said.  Eurex, Liffe  Deutsche Boerse  and NYSE Euronext resisted any suggestion
that they would sell Eurex or Liffe, saying in a February
statement that they complement each other ideally on interest
rate products, with Eurex specializing in the long end of the
firm Tabb Group LLC in a phone interview last week.  Derivatives traders were asked by EU officials whether they
saw “any advantages to concentrating trades in one trading
venue or in one clearing venue.” Where some or all types of
derivatives trade on one exchange, they were asked to say
whether they could shift to another platform or what would
entice them to do so.  Antitrust officials also wanted to know how important
access to market data is for exchanges’ competitors and
customers. The questionnaire asks whether rival exchanges can
offer a competing product based on a market index without a
license.  Market Data  Regulators also sought to find out whether NYSE and
Deutsche Boerse compete in non-proprietary market-data services
and asked how co-location and data services at the exchanges are
priced and how the merger will impact the two.  Co-location enables customers to put their computers near
the exchange’s engines that match buy and sell orders, reducing
the time it takes their systems to receive data and make trading
decisions.  Deutsche Boerse must also win the support of 75 percent of
NYSE Euronext shareholders to approve its purchase by July 13.  The combined exchange should save more than 51 million
euros by having common trading and clearing infrastructure,
merging networks and “eliminating overlapping IT functions,”
the two companies said June 1 to shareholders in Eschborn,
 Germany  for Deutsche Boerse’s annual investor day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in London at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net   Aoife White in Brussels at 
 awhite62@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 