-- 
Deutsche Telekom Names Nemat, Schick Under Plan to Boost Women Executives

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-07-04T17:48:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/deutsche-telekom-may-name-mckinsey-director-as-europe-chief-1-.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  named a McKinsey
& Co. executive to run its European operations and a politician
to take charge of personnel, adding two women to the management
board of  Europe ’s biggest telephone company.  Claudia Nemat, 42, will run the European division excluding
 Germany  starting in October, Deutsche Telekom said today after a
meeting of its supervisory board. Marion Schick, 52, will take
over next year from Thomas Sattelberger as the board member
responsible for human resources.  Deutsche Telekom last year became the first company listed
on Germany’s benchmark  DAX index (DAX)  to introduce a quota for women
in management positions. The Bonn-based company aims to lift the
share of women working in upper- and mid-level executive posts
to 30 percent by the end of 2015. Currently there aren’t any
women on its seven-person management board.  “They have all the necessary professional and personal
skills to drive the restructuring of Deutsche Telekom ahead in
two key areas of the group in the coming years,” Chief
Executive Officer Rene Obermann said of the appointments.  Nemat, a director at McKinsey & Co. in charge of technology
matters for Europe,  Middle East  and Africa, already dealt with
past projects for Deutsche Telekom. She will replace Guido Kerkhoff, the Europe chief who left in March to become chief
financial officer of ThyssenKrupp AG.  Greece ,  Hungary   European business generated sales of 16.8 billion euros
($24.4 billion) last year, accounting for 29 percent of Deutsche
Telekom’s revenue. Its importance within the company is set to
increase after Deutsche Telekom agreed in March to sell its T-
Mobile USA division to AT&T Inc. for $39 billion. The European
unit’s earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization fell 23 percent in the first quarter as customers
from Greece to Hungary canceled subscriptions.  The unit is run by Roland Mahler on an interim basis since
Kerkhoff’s departure. Its assets include  Hellenic
Telecommunications Organization SA (HTO) , the Greek phone company in
which Deutsche Telekom is raising its stake to 40 percent, as
well as Poland’s third-biggest wireless provider, Polska
Telefonia Cyfrowa.  Schick, a politician from German Chancellor Angela Merkel’s
Christian Democratic Union, was most recently education and
culture minister for the German state of Baden-Wuerttemberg. She
was president at the Munich University between 2000 and 2008
where she taught personnel management. She also held positions
with Rodenstock and Germany’s ADAC automotive lobby.  Deutsche Telekom added 0.1 percent to 19.70 euros at the
5:30 p.m. close of trading in Frankfurt. The stock has advanced
11 percent this year, valuing the company at 46 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in  Frankfurt  at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  