-- 
Ecodiesel to Pursue $1.39 Billion Merger as Board Replaced

-- B y   S t e p h a n   N i e l s e n
-- 
2011-07-04T19:36:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/ecodiesel-merger-moves-step-closer-as-billionaire-banuelos-replaces-board.html
Brasil Ecodiesel Industria & Comercio
de Biocombustiveis & Oleos Vegetais SA moved a step closer to a
proposed 2.16 billion-real ($1.39 billion) merger after a
shareholder who opposed the deal lost control of the board, the
newly appointed chairman said. The shares rose.  The company,  Brazil ’s fourth-biggest biodiesel producer,
elected six new board members, including the chairman, at a July
1 shareholders meeting. The new board may be more willing to
back billionaire shareholder Enrique Banuelos’s proposed merger
of Ecodiesel with Vanguarda do Brasil SA to create a biodiesel
and crop producer, Chairman Marcelo Passaglia Paracchini said in
a telephone interview on July 1.  “We’re a step closer to the merger,” Paracchini, who is
also the chief executive officer of Veremonte Participacoes SA,
Banuelos’s investment company. “I think we could complete the
transaction in under 50 days.”  Brasil Ecodiesel last month hired  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , law firm Linklaters LLP and Ernst & Young LLP to
study the deal, Paracchini said. The study will be completed in
about 15 days, he said.  The company’s shares rose as much as 8.3 percent to 78
centavos in  Sao Paulo  trading today. The stock was trading up 5
centavos, or 6.9 percent, to 77 centavos as of 3:26 p.m. New
York time.  Extraordinary Meeting  Banuelos, who controls 50 percent of Vanguarda and at least
22.4 percent of Ecodiesel, called for the extraordinary
shareholders meeting last month after then-board member Silvio
Tini rejected the proposal. Tini, who is also a shareholder,
later agreed to a study of the deal, Paracchini said.  Shareholders voted in the July 1 meeting to trim the size
of the board to six members, with Tini, Veremonte and Ecodiesel
investor Helio Seibel each appointing two directors. Tini
previously had the right to appoint four of a seven-member
board.  A press official for Tini, who asked not to be identified
because of internal policy, declined to comment.  Seibel, who bought an 8 percent stake in Sao Paulo-based
Brasil Ecodiesel on June 7 and also sits on the board of
Brazilian wood-panel maker  Duratex SA (DTEX3) , is interested in pursuing
the merger, Paracchini said. The combined companies would have a
value of 2.16 billion reais.  Ecodiesel rose 1.4 percent to 73 centavos at 12:43 p.m. in
Sao Paulo trading. The shares have fallen 6.5 percent since May
11, the day before Ecodiesel said the proposed study of the deal
was rejected.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephan Nielsen in Sao Paulo at 
 snielsen8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Wade at   wwade4@bloomberg.net  