-- 
Eli Lilly Asks Judge to Reject Generics Firm’s U.K. Zyprexa Case

-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 
2011-07-04T13:27:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/eli-lilly-asks-judge-to-reject-generics-firm-s-u-k-zyprexa-case.html
Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) , the drugmaker whose
biggest-selling schizophrenia medicine Zyprexa survived a patent
challenge in Britain two years ago, asked a U.K. judge to reject
a parallel lawsuit by a closely held generics company.  Neopharma Ltd., which holds European marketing rights for
generic olanzapine, should have its revived claim dismissed
without a trial because it can’t realistically prove the patent
is invalid, Eli Lilly’s lawyer said today at the High court in
 London . Neopharma sold the generic in the U.K. in 2008 before a
temporary court injunction forced it to stop.  Neopharma’s claim that “the patent is invalid has no
prospect of success, having already been rejected in a number of
courts around the world,”  Eli Lilly ’s lawyer, Thomas Mitcheson,
said in court papers outlined in today’s hearing.  The Court of Appeal in London affirmed the patent’s
validity in December 2009, in a challenge by  India ’s Dr. Reddy’s
Laboratories Ltd. Eli Lilly had already won a similar case in
the U.S. The drug accounted for more than $5 billion in sales
for the Indianapolis-based company last year, or about 22
percent of its global revenue. The drug’s European patent
expires in the U.K. on Sept. 26, while its U.S. protection ends
in October.  Neopharma’s lawyer, Antony Watson, said the case must go to
trial because he will introduce “fresh evidence” and because
the lawsuit involves new claims that haven’t been addressed in
the U.K. The patent should be revoked because the development is
too “obvious” to experts in the field, he said.  The specific argument made by Neopharma was already
rejected by courts in the  Czech Republic , Slovakia,  Canada  and
the U.S., Eli Lilly said in its filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in London at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story. 