-- 
Emerging-Markets Stock Index Climbs to Two-Month High; Bovespa Advances

-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J a s o n   W e b b
-- 
2011-07-04T21:40:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/emerging-markets-stock-index-climbs-to-two-month-high-thai-shares-jump.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to a two-month high, on speculation China
will refrain from boosting  interest rates  and as Morgan Stanley
recommended investors buy more developing-nation equities.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.1 percent to
1,169.49 at 5 p.m.  New York  time, closing at the highest level
since May 4.  Brazil ’s benchmark Bovespa increased 0.8 percent to
gain for a sixth day, the longest winning streak since April, as
traders pared bets for higher borrowing costs in Brazil and amid
optimism on Greece’s debt crisis.  The Shanghai Composite Index rallied 1.9 percent and South
Korea’s Kospi Index rose 0.9 percent. Thailand’s SET Index
jumped 4.7 percent after an election victory by allies of exiled
premier  Thaksin Shinawatra  raised prospects foreign investors
will return to the nation. Turkish stocks increased and the lira
slipped after inflation slowed more than expected in June.  Morgan Stanley analysts led by  Jonathan Garner  raised the
allocation to equities in their emerging-market model, citing
“attractive” valuations and the prospects of a “stronger”
second half as inflation peaks.  China ’s non-manufacturing
industries grew at the slowest pace in four months, creating
speculation policy makers will hold off from raising rates
further.  “Bets that China won’t intensify its tightening moves
provided a boost to sentiment,” said Lim Chang Gue, a  fund
manager  in  Seoul  at Samsung Asset Management Co., which oversees
about $30 billion. “Investors will now closely monitor the U.S.
economic figures this week, especially job market data.”  Morgan Stanley  Emerging-market investors should hold 56 percent of their
assets in equities, compared with the 54 percent recommended in
October, the Morgan Stanley analysts wrote in a report today.
They lifted their end-2011 forecast for MSCI’s emerging-market
gauge by 1 percent to 1,305 and for the MSCI Asia Pacific
excluding Japan Index by 2 percent to 550.  China’s stocks rallied, lifting the Shanghai Composite to
the highest close since May 20. A purchasing managers’ index for
non-manufacturing industries dropped to 57 in June from 61.9 in
May, the China Federation of Logistics and Purchasing said
yesterday. A reading above 50 indicates an expansion.  In  Thailand , the baht appreciated the most since December
2008 and the benchmark SET Index rose by the biggest percentage
since April 2010. Pheu Thai, led by Thaksin’s sister Yingluck Shinawatra, won 265 seats in the 500-member parliament and
announced the formation of a five-party, 299-seat coalition. The
decisive win by Thaksin’s allies may bring stability to a nation
beset by clashes between his supporters and opponents that
claimed more than 100 lives since the last vote in 2007.  Brazil Growth  In Brazil, Airline Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA and
cosmetics maker Natura Cosmeticos SA led gains for consumer
stocks as investors speculated the central bank will raise
interest rates less than previously estimated to tame inflation.
Analysts in a weekly central bank survey cut their median
forecast for how much Latin America’s biggest economy will grow
this year for second straight week.  Turkey’s  ISE National 100 Index (XU100)  gained 1.5 percent to the
highest level in four weeks, fueled by a 1.9 percent advance by
 Turkiye Garanti Bankasi AS. (GARAN)   The country’s annual consumer inflation rate decreased to
6.2 percent from 7.2 percent a month earlier, the statistics
office in Ankara said on its website today. It was forecast at 7
percent, according to the median estimate of 11 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The lira weakened by 0.6 percent against the dollar. The
Korean won strengthened by 0.3 percent and the Indian rupee
appreciated by 0.4 percent.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index rose by 0.5 percent as
prices of oil and metals advanced. Russia’s  Micex Index (INDEXCF) 
increased by 0.5 percent.  South Korean Brokerages  In Seoul, the  Kospi Index (KOSPI)  gained as South Korean brokerages
rallied, led by Daewoo Securities Co.’s 7.7 percent jump, on
speculation trading value and volume will gain as the benchmark
index continues to rise.  “Investors appear to be betting that the stock gauge may
rise through its previous high, and that valuations of many
brokerages are attractive,” said Son Mi Ji, an analyst at
Shinhan Investment Corp.  -- With assistance from Ben Bain in New York. Editor: Marie- France Han  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net ;
Jason Webb in  London  at 
 jwebb25@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  