-- 
Tenaga to Sell $1.7 Billion 20-Year Islamic Bond, CEO Says

-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 
2011-07-04T02:50:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/tenaga-to-sell-1-7-billion-20-year-islamic-bond-ceo-says.html
Tenaga Nasional Bhd ., Malaysia’s
biggest power producer, plans to raise as much as 5 billion
ringgit ($1.7 billion) from a 20-year ringgit-denominated
Islamic bond offering, its chief executive officer said today.  “We plan to sell the bonds in August or September,” Che Khalib Mohamad Noh said in an interview. Proceeds from the
offering, the company’s first debt sale since 2004, will be used
to finance a coal-fired Manjung power plant in the northern
state of Perak, Che Khalib said.  The utility is raising power generation capacity to meet
rising demand on the Malaysian peninsula after shelving plans to
buy electricity generated by the Bakun hydroelectric dam on
Borneo island earlier this year. The 20-year paper will help
alleviate a shortage of longer-dated securities that insurers
need to match assets and liabilities.  “There will be demand for Tenaga’s sukuk as long-dated
corporate Islamic paper is scarce,” said Michael Chang, who
oversees $1 billion as head of fixed-income at MCIS Zurich
Insurance Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “Ultimately, demand will depend
on the interest-rate outlook and pricing.”  The Islamic insurance, or takaful, industry grew at an
annual pace of 16 percent over the last five years, double that
of non-Islamic insurers, RAM Rating Bhd., the bigger of
Malaysia’s two rating companies said last week. Sarawak Energy
Bhd., a Malaysian state-owned electricity company based on
Borneo island, sold 3 billion ringgit of five-, 10- and 15-year
Islamic bonds last month at the lower end of its yield guidance.  Demand for Bonds  “It’s the right time to sell bonds in the domestic market
as there’s a lot of liquidity,” Che Khalib said, adding that
three investment banks have been short-listed as underwriters.
“The attractive price for the government’s sukuk sold last week
is a good benchmark.”  Malaysia  sold $2 billion of Shariah-compliant notes last
week, which attracted more than $9 billion in orders. The $1.2
billion notes maturing July 2016 were issued to yield 145 basis
points over Treasuries, while the $800 million debt due July
2021 was sold at 165 basis points over Treasuries. The rate for
both the securities was 15 basis points lower than its initial
guidance by the government.  Tenaga is rated triple ‘A’, the highest ranking by the
country’s two credit rating companies, Rating Agency Malaysia
Bhd. and Malaysia Rating Corporation Bhd. The power company is
assigned Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service, BBB+ by Standard &
Poor’s Ratings Services and Fitch Ratings, which is the third
lowest investment grade for all the three international
assessors, a notch below sovereign.  Malaysia is the world’s biggest issuer of sukuk that comply
with Islam’s ban on interest payments. It had $94 billion of
Islamic bonds outstanding at the end of last year, accounting
for 66 percent of the total sukuk worldwide, the central bank
said in its 2010 annual report published March 23.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Janes at 
 ajanes@bloomberg.net  