-- 
Tepco Rises to Seven-Week High on Edano Comment, Kyushu Reactor

-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 
2011-07-04T08:33:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/tepco-rises-to-seven-week-high-on-edano-comment-kyushu-reactor.html
Tokyo  Electric Power Co., battling
the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years, climbed to a seven-week
high after a senior government official said he knows nothing
about a proposal to split the company and a rival utility got
initial approval to restart reactors.  The power producer known as Tepco rose about 20 percent to
close at 393 yen in Tokyo trading, the highest since May 16. The
gain was the biggest since June 15, when the stock surged 32
percent. The benchmark Topix index advanced 1.2 percent.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said in Tokyo today
that he wasn’t aware of a plan to break up Tepco. Yoshito
Sengoku, Edano’s deputy, may propose splitting the company and
nationalizing its nuclear power operations following the March
11 accident at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station, the Mainichi
newspaper reported yesterday, citing a government document.  Tepco officials said today it restarted the 600-megawatt
No. 1 unit at its Hirono thermal-power plant in Fukushima
prefecture yesterday and that a self-contained cooling system
that uses recycled water to douse reactors at its crippled Dai-
Ichi nuclear station has been working without a hitch for three
days.  The mayor of Genkai town, Hideo Kishimoto, today approved
Kyushu Electric Power Co.’s plan to start two reactors idled for
maintenance, the first step to resuming operation of the units.  Should the reactors start, they will be the first to come
back on line after an earthquake and tsunami knocked out cooling
at Tepco’s Dai-Ichi plant, causing three units to melt down.  The accident, the worst nuclear disaster since Chernobyl 25
years ago, has raised concerns about the safety of atomic power
plants in  Japan , one of the most earthquake-prone countries in
the world.  To contact the reporters on this story: Tsuyoshi Inajima in
Tokyo at   tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash in Singapore at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  