-- 
European Stock Futures Little Changed After Greek Aid Approval

-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 
2011-07-04T06:25:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/european-stock-futures-trade-little-changed-after-greek-aid-approval-by-eu.html
European stock-index futures were
little changed after finance ministers approved an aid payment
to  Greece , while  Standard & Poor’s  said plans for banks to roll
over the nation’s debt may lead to a  “selective default.”
Asian shares climbed and U.S. futures dropped.  Mobile-phone companies might move after a report that
roaming data fees will be halved in  Europe .  Nestle SA (NESN)  may be
active after  China ’s Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd. said the
Swiss company is assessing a takeover bid for China’s biggest
confectioner by market value.  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE) 
might also move on a report the bourse is open to considering a
merger with Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.  Futures on the Euro Stoxx 50 Index, a benchmark for the
euro area, expiring in September rose 0.1 percent to 2,878 at
7:23 a.m. in  London . Futures on the U.K.’s  FTSE 100 Index (UKX)  were
almost unchanged. The MSCI Asia Pacific Index jumped 1.3 percent
and Standard & Poor’s 500 Index futures dropped 0.2 percent. The
U.S. market is closed for  Independence Day .  The benchmark Stoxx Europe 600 Index surged 4.1 percent
last week, snapping eight consecutive weeks of losses, after
Greek lawmakers passed a five-year austerity package, qualifying
the country for further aid. The gauge still slipped 1.1 percent
in the second quarter on concern that Greece may default.  Greek Aid  The euro area approved its share of a 12 billion-euro
($17.4 billion) aid payment for Greece on July 2 and pledged to
complete work in the coming weeks on a second rescue package for
the cash-strapped nation. Finance ministers agreed to disburse
8.7 billion euros of loans under last year’s 110 billion-euro
bailout, rewarding Greek Premier  George Papandreou  for pushing
an extra austerity plan through parliament.  The spotlight now turns to a second bailout to which banks
and insurers plan to contribute following German demands for
taxpayer relief. Euro-area governments and investors will
provide 70 percent of new aid that may total as much as 85
billion euros, with the IMF offering the rest, Thomas Wieser, an
Austrian Finance Ministry official, said on June 30.  S&P said today that the goal of getting banks to roll over
30 billion euros of Greek bonds may put the country in
“selective default.” The euro erased its gain against the
dollar and the yen after the news.  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  might move after the
Financial Times said European mobile-phone companies will see
their roaming fees cut by more than half by European Union
officials. The newspaper also reported that price caps on
mobile-phone roaming within the EU will be extended to 2016.  Nestle, Hsu Fu  Nestle might move after Hsu Fu Chi said the world’s biggest
food maker is among the parties in acquisition talks for what
would be the largest overseas purchase of a Chinese company.
Nestle is assessing a potential bid for Hsu Fu Chi and the two
companies have been in talks on a partnership for a few years,
Christine Sun, spokeswoman for the Dongguan, Guangdong-based
company, said by phone today.   LSE might be active after the FT reported the U.K. bourse
is open to considering a merger with Nasdaq OMX. Bob Greifeld,
chief executive officer of the New York-based company, is
considering an approach for LSE, though advisers are not yet
formally involved, the newspaper said, citing people familiar
with the matter.  RWE AG (RWE)  may move after a person familiar with the matter
said Germany’s second-largest utility is working with Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. as the company considers a sale of its Npower
unit in the U.K.  Diageo Plc (DGE)  also might be active. The world’s largest liquor
company has dropped plans to bid for  Brazil ’s Primo Schincariol
Industria de Cervejas & Refrigerantes SA, according to two
people familiar with the matter.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  