-- 
Euro Falls Versus Yen After S&P Says Greece May Be In ‘Selective Default’

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-07-04T20:28:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/euro-falls-versus-yen-after-s-p-says-greece-may-be-in-selective-default-.html
The euro weakened versus the yen
after  Standard & Poor’s  said a debt-rollover plan for Greece may
prompt a “selective default” rating for the country.  The 17-nation currency had risen to the highest level since
June 8 against its Japanese counterpart on speculation the
 European Central Bank  will increase rates this week. The Swiss
franc slipped after retail sales slumped. The  Thai baht  rose
after an election win by allies of former premier  Thaksin Shinawatra  spurred optimism foreign investors will return.  “Sentiment was undermined with those S&P comments,” said
 Jeremy Stretch , head of currency strategy at Canadian Imperial
Bank of Commerce in London. “Markets are reluctant to
aggressively sell the euro, though. We need to see what the
other rating agencies are going to suggest.”  The shared currency fell as much as 0.3 percent to 117.03
yen, before trading little changed at 117.45 yen as of 4:20 p.m.
in  New York . The euro was little changed at $1.4534, after
advancing to $1.4578, the strongest since June 9. The dollar
traded at 80.82 yen, from 80.83 on July 1 in New York.  Europe is inching toward a goal of getting banks to replace
30 billion euros ($44 billion) of maturing Greek bonds with new
securities. French banks, with the biggest exposure to Greece,
worked out a rollover formula that is serving as an example.  Bunds, ECB Rates  “It is our view that each of the two financing options
described in the Federation Bancaire Francaise proposal would
likely amount to a default under our criteria,” S&P said in the
statement today.  German  government bonds , the European benchmark debt,
advanced as investors sought the safest assets. The yield on the
10-year bund slipped 1 basis point to 3.02 percent.  The ECB on July 7 will increase its benchmark rate to 1.5
percent from 1.25 percent, according to all 54 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The Swiss franc declined against most of 16 major
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg after data showed retail sales
fell 4.1 percent in May from a year earlier. The Swiss currency
has advanced 10 percent versus the dollar this year as investors
sought a haven amid the euro-area debt crisis.  “There is a response to domestic data, undoubtedly,” said
 Steve Barrow , London-based head of research for Group-of-10
currencies at Standard Bank Plc in  London . “The backdrop is not
just the euro zone issue and risk, but the specifics of the
strength of the franc.”  The Swiss currency fell less than 0.1 percent to 84.82
centimes per dollar.  Dollar, Baht  The Dollar Index, which tracks the greenback against the
currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, was little
changed at 74.284 after sliding to 74.111, the lowest since June
10. U.S. financial markets are shut today for  Independence Day .  Thailand’s baht rose on optimism a decisive election
victory by Pheu Thai, led by Thaksin’s sister Yingluck Shinawatra, will bring stability to the nation and boost
investment from overseas. Clashes between his supporters and
opponents have claimed more than 100 lives since the previous
poll in 2007.  “The majority victory is a very welcome outcome and
foreign investors will come back very quickly,” said  Frances Cheung , senior strategist at Credit Agricole CIB in Hong Kong.  The baht rose 0.9 percent to 30.45 per dollar, after
strengthening to as much as 30.40, the most since June 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 