-- 
European Investor Confidence Rises in July

-- B y   C h r i s t i a n   V i t s
-- 
2011-07-04T08:30:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/european-investor-confidence-rises-in-july.html
European investor confidence rose for
the first time in four months in July after  oil prices  retreated
and the economy gathered strength.  An index measuring sentiment in the 17-nation euro region
rose to 5.3 from 3.5 in June, Limburg, Germany-based  Sentix  said
in an e-mailed statement today. A gauge of current business
conditions climbed to 19.25 from 18.50, while an indicator of
expectations advanced to minus 7.75 from minus 10.50.  The euro region’s economic growth accelerated to the
fastest pace in almost a year in the first quarter, powered by a
forecast-topping expansion in  Germany  offsetting the impact of
tougher austerity measures from Ireland to Spain. Oil prices
have dropped about 4 percent over the past month and European
finance ministers authorized an 8.7 billion-euro ($12.6 billion)
loan payout to  Greece , bolstering confidence.  “It seems that the correction in commodity prices, in
particular oil prices, is seen as a relief,” Sentix said in the
statement. “Investors’ assessment certainly also profited from
the approved support package for Greece.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
reiterated last week that policy makers are ready to raise the
benchmark interest rate on July 7 amid concern that oil-driven
inflation and faster economic growth will fuel wage demands.  “The fear of inflation has significantly fallen from the
hysteria levels in February and March,” Sentix said. “This
should reduce the pressure on the ECB to increase rates too
much.”  A gauge of investor confidence in  Japan  rose to minus 8.7
from minus 19, while an index for  Asia  excluding Japan increased
to 21.8 from 17.9, today’s report showed.  Sentix said 922 investors participated in its monthly
survey, which was conducted between June 30 and July 2. The
results are never revised.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christian Vits in Frankfurt at 
 cvits@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  