-- 
Euro Trades Near Three-Week High as ECB Seen Tightening Faster Than Fed

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 
2011-07-05T00:33:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/euro-trades-near-4-week-high-versus-yen-on-ecb-rate-increase-expectations.html
The euro was 0.3 percent from a
three-week high against the dollar on speculation the  European
Central Bank  will continue to lead its U.S. counterpart in
monetary tightening.  The euro was 0.2 percent from a four-week high against the
yen on prospects the ECB will raise  interest rates  on July 7
even as concerns about debt-stricken  Greece  linger. Data this
week are forecast to show U.S. employers expanded payrolls at a
pace that failed to reduce the jobless rate, adding to bets the
 Federal Reserve  will keep interest rates near zero for longer.
New Zealand’s dollar climbed to a record after a report showed
business confidence in the nation rebounded in the second
quarter.  “We’re looking for the Fed to do something in the first
quarter next year but it seems like the risk is probably that
gets delayed,” said Grant Turley, a senior currency strategist
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in Sydney. “The
ECB targets headline inflation and they’re moving to respond to
that. In an overall sense, we see the  U.S. dollar  weaker and the
euro to move higher.”  The euro traded at $1.4537 as of 9:03 a.m. in Tokyo from
$1.4539 in  New York  yesterday, when it reached $1.4578
yesterday, the highest level since June 9. The common currency
was at 117.53 yen from 117.47. It touched 117.74 yen yesterday,
the strongest since June 8. The dollar fetched 80.85 yen from
80.80.  U.S. financial markets were closed yesterday for
 Independence Day .  ECB Meeting  The ECB on July 7 will increase its benchmark rate to 1.5
percent from 1.25 percent, according to all 54 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
last week reiterated that policy makers are in a state of
“strong vigilance,” a phrase he has used before tightening
monetary policy.  “The bigger event on the agenda is the ECB,” said  Robert Rennie , chief currency strategist in Sydney at Westpac Banking
Corp.,  Australia ’s second-largest lender. Comments by Trichet
and other central bank officials suggest tightening of “25
basis points on Thursday and I think that’s something that
continues to support sentiment towards the euro.”  ECB Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said policy
makers are struggling with a situation in which banks are
willing to help stabilize Greece, while rating companies are
applying “aggressive” rules.  Standard & Poor’s  said yesterday
a bond-rollover plan drafted by French banks that serves as the
basis for talks between investors and governments would qualify
as a distressed exchange and prompt a “selective default”
grade.  ‘Stabilizing Greece’  “We have a somewhat strange situation,” Nowotny said in
an interview with Austrian state television broadcaster ORF.
“Some of the banks themselves are ready” to contribute to a
new bailout package for Greece “because they are interested in
stabilizing Greece,” he said.  U.S. payrolls climbed by 100,000 workers after a 54,000
increase in May that was the smallest in eight months, according
to the median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
ahead of Labor Department data due July 8. The jobless rate
probably held at 9.1 percent.  A net 27 percent of 782  New Zealand  companies surveyed
expect the economy to improve in the next six months, from a net
27 percent seeing a deterioration in the prior period, the New
Zealand Institute of Economic Research said today.  “The survey number paints the picture of an economy that’s
definitely on the recovery track and gaining momentum,” said
Khoon Goh, head of market economics and strategy at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “The domestic fundamentals are
supportive of the kiwi.”  New Zealand’s dollar rose 0.3 percent to 83.17 U.S. cents
from 82.96 and earlier reached 83.32 cents, the most since the
currency was freely floated in 1985. It bought 67.21 yen from
67.04 yen.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in  Tokyo  at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 