-- 
Tevez Says He Wants to Leave Manchester City as Clichy Joins From Arsenal

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s   a n d   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-04T23:58:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/tevez-says-he-wants-to-leave-mancehster-city-as-clichy-joins-from-arsenal.html
Manchester City  captain  Carlos Tevez 
said he wants to leave the club he helped reach the  Champions
League  for the first time because of family reasons.  Tevez, who’s playing for host nation  Argentina  at soccer’s
Copa America, said in a statement late yesterday that he doesn’t
want to continue to live in the northwest of  England  without his
two daughters.  “Living without my children in Manchester has been
incredibly challenging for me,” Tevez, 27, said. “Everything I
do, I do for my daughters, Katie and Florencia. I need to be
closer to them and to spend more time with them. I need them to
be happy because my life is about them now. I need to be in a
place where they can adapt.”  Tevez, who signed a five-year contract with City in July
2009 after leaving crosstown rival  Manchester United , withdrew a
transfer request in December. He scored 20 Premier League goals
last season to help City finish in third place and qualify for
 Europe ’s elite Champions League for the first time. City also
won its first major trophy in 35 years by beating Stoke City in
the F.A. Cup final.  Although Tevez’s estranged partner couldn’t settle in
Manchester and returned to Argentina with their daughters, a
move to a Spanish or Italian club may persuade his family to
return to Europe, according to U.K. media reports.  ‘Difficult Circumstances’  “It is with great regret that I have to inform Manchester
City of my wish to leave,” Tevez said. “I hope that the people
understand the difficult circumstances I have been living under
the past 12 months, in regards to my family.”  Tevez’s statement, released to the U.K.’s Press Association,
came hours after Arsenal’s French international defender Gael Clichy signed a four-year contract with City.  The clubs announced the 25-year-old’s switch on their
websites without giving the transfer fee. U.K. media reports
said City paid 7 million pounds ($11.2 million) for the left-
back, who had 12 months remaining on his Arsenal contract.  “I hope I can add to the quality we already have here
because we have a fantastic squad who I believe will continue to
get better,” Clichy told City’s website. “I can’t wait to get
started and I think anything is possible with this team.”  Other Arsenal regulars may also leave the 13-time English
champion. Captain Cesc Fabregas has been linked with a return to
Barcelona, while midfielder Samir Nasri has yet to renew a
contract that expires next year.  Emirates to Eastlands  Clichy follows other Arsenal players who’ve swapped London
for a club owned by  Abu Dhabi ’s Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed  Al Nahyan . City has been among Europe’s biggest spenders since the
billionaire bought the team in September 2008. Former Gunners at
Eastlands include Emmanuel Adebayor and Kolo Toure, while ex-
Arsenal captain  Patrick Vieira  has also played for City and may
stay there as a coach.  “When I first came to England, it was Kolo Toure and
Patrick Vieira who took me under their wing and really looked
after me,” Clichy said. “Kolo would pick me up and drop me at
home and his wife used to cook meals for me. Patrick was always
there to offer me advice so it’s wonderful to be back and at the
same club they are at.”  Clichy joined Arsenal from Cannes in 2003 and was the last
remaining member of the so-called Invincibles, who won the
Premier League in 2004 without losing a game.  “We’d like to thank Gael for eight years of terrific
service,” Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  told his club’s  website .
“He has grown and developed so much since joining us.”  The Gunners haven’t won a trophy since the 2005 F.A. Cup
and finished fourth in the Premier League last season.  Some supporters have started to question the philosophy of
Wenger, who favors promoting young talent over buying
established stars. “In Arsene We Rust,” said one banner held
up at the Emirates Stadium toward the end of the season, a
reference to the regular slogan of “In Arsene We Trust.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net ;
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  