-- 
Ex-Mossad Chief’s Iran Warnings May Backfire: Jeffrey Goldberg

-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 
2011-07-04T04:01:13Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/ex-mossad-chief-s-iran-warnings-may-backfire-jeffrey-goldberg.html
In a country of hard men, Meir Dagan, the recently retired head of the Mossad,  Israel ’s
foreign intelligence service, is one of the hardest. He is
the Siberian-born son of Holocaust survivors, an ex-
commando who has arranged the assassinations of many of
Israel’s enemies.  He is devoted to the defense of his country, and, like
most of Israel’s samurai class, sees Iran, and its Jew-
hating, missile-obsessed leadership, as his country’s
foremost threat, because of its nuclear intentions and its
support for the Islamist terror groups that seek Israel’s
destruction.  So a pressing question in Israel today is this: Why
has Dagan called into question the wisdom -- and,
privately, even the sanity -- of any Israeli leader who
contemplates a preemptive strike on Iran’s nuclear
facilities?  The answer illuminates an enormous divide within
Israel’s national-security establishment. It also suggests
that Dagan, without peer as a saboteur, assassin and spy,
is a bungling strategist.  In two recent speeches, Dagan called an  Iran  strike “a
stupid idea,”  and said  “the regional challenge that Israel
would face would be impossible.” He has made clear he
believes that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and Defense
Minister Ehud Barak are driving Israel toward a war it
can’t win. He has said that while in office he worked with
other security officials to thwart “any dangerous
adventure.” But, he went on, “Now I am afraid that there is
no one to stop Bibi and Barak.”  Mossad’s View  Last year, while reporting on the possibility of an
 Iranian-Israeli confrontation  -- the world’s most serious
latent crisis -- I heard repeatedly from officials familiar
with the Mossad’s views that the agency thought the costs
of an Israeli strike on Iran would outweigh the benefits.
The Mossad analysis held that such an attack would not be
an echo of the 1981 Israeli bombing of  Iraq ’s Osirak
nuclear reactor, because Iraq had concentrated its nuclear
program in one place.  Iran’s nuclear program  is spread throughout the
country, and Iran, of course, is farther from Israel.
Mossad analysts are also certain that Iran would order its
Hezbollah proxies in Lebanon to launch thousands of rockets
at Israel. This could force the Israeli air force to break
off its attack on Iran in order defend Israel in what could
be a multifront assault.  Even so, the Mossad, like every agency in Israel’s
national security establishment, views Iran’s nuclear
program as a threat to Israel’s existence and understands
that the mere possibility of an Israeli attack helps deter
Iran’s ambitions.  Dagan’s Break  So what caused Dagan’s break with his former boss, and
his decision to publicly undermine Netanyahu’s position
that, in the now-familiar phrase, “all options are on the
table”?  I spoke with several people familiar with Dagan’s
thinking. They told me he believes that Barak, in
particular, sees no great downside to a strike on Iran, and
that Netanyahu is a prisoner to the idea that it’s his
personal responsibility to stop a potential new Holocaust.
They also suggested that Netanyahu wants to change the
subject from his difficulties with the Palestinians.  It’s no secret that the prime minister has been
outfoxed by the Palestinian leadership lately, and that
Israel is desperately trying to stop a Palestinian
independence initiative at the  United Nations . Netanyahu is
capable of great cynicism, and he has made clear that the
 peace process  doesn’t interest him very much. But launching
an airstrike on the Persian Empire? He would do such a
thing only if he believed Israel’s existence was in danger,
and that the U.S. was prepared to stand by as Iran went
nuclear.  Competing Analysis  Today, there’s a war within the Israeli defense
establishment, a war of competing analysis. Dagan leads the
camp of officials and ex-officials who believe that
Netanyahu should spend all his time trying to convince
President  Barack Obama  that only the U.S. is capable of
neutralizing the Iranian threat, and that Netanyahu should
shelve the idea, once and for all, of launching an attack
himself.  There is much to credit in Dagan’s argument. Iran may
be too large a problem for a small state to handle, even a
small state with a potent  air force . And he is certainly
correct to say that Netanyahu and Barak, the only two men
with the power to order a strike, are seriously
contemplating military action. Dagan would not have spoken
out in such dramatic fashion, and burned so many bridges,
if he thought Netanyahu and Barak weren’t serious.  Undermining Deterrence  But Dagan didn’t count on one thing: His public
denunciations may actually bring Israel closer to launching
an attack. He has undermined the credibility of Israel’s
deterrent posture. Western intelligence agencies, the Obama
administration and the  International Atomic Energy Agency 
all suspect that Iran’s leaders are moving steadily toward
a nuclear bomb, less fearful of an Israeli strike than they
were last year. The Iranians, intelligence officials told
me, believe Dagan’s statements reflect the position of
Israel’s defense establishment.  They don’t. But this perception is critical. If Israel
does attack the Iranian nuclear program, it will in part be
because Dagan undermined his country’s deterrent
credibility.  Lately, it has become received wisdom that Israel is
leaning against a strike and is instead pinning its hopes
on Obama. But those who argue that Netanyahu would not
attack Iran know nothing about the man, about his fears,
his militancy, his belief that history has entrusted him
with the survival of the Jewish people.  Meir Dagan  might
not know strategy. But he knows to take Netanyahu’s
preoccupation with Iran seriously.  ( Jeffrey Goldberg , a national correspondent for The
Atlantic, is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the author of this column:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 