-- 
Fenerbahce Threatened With Loss of Turkish Title Amid Match-Fix Probe

-- B y   E m r e   P e k e r
-- 
2011-07-04T16:04:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/fenerbahce-threated-with-loss-of-soccer-title-amid-turkish-match-fix-probe.html
Fenerbahce, the Turkish soccer
champion, led losses among publicly listed sports teams amid a
match-fixing probe that’s threatening to strip the club of its
18th title, the most in the league’s history.  Aziz Yildirim, Fenerbahce chairman, returned today to the
organized-crimes division at the Istanbul police department
after a hospital visit, state-run Anatolia news agency said. He
was taken into custody yesterday along with other executives,
footballers, coaches, journalists and former officials.  A special prosecutor in Istanbul led the operations in
 Turkey ’s biggest city and 14 other provinces, resulting in more
than 50 detentions in an investigation into Fenerbahce and teams
and players, Milliyet newspaper said. Fenerbahce Sportif
Hizmetler Sanayi & Ticaret AS, which owns license rights to the
sports team brand, dropped 13.75 liras, or 19 percent, to 57.5
liras ($36) in Istanbul, after the biggest decline since October
2008. It was followed by Besiktas and Trabzonspor.  “The pie is big and revenue from sponsorship deals are
great, thus it’s conceivable that different methods were
considered to reach the goal” of championship, said Hakan Sukur, first-time deputy elect from the governing  Justice and
Development Party  and former national striker who won the UEFA
Cup with Galatasaray in 2000. “Recently passed laws brought a
new dimension to pursue investigations of match-fixing.”  ‘Multiple’ Investigations  FIFA’s head of security Chris Eaton said in an e-mail to
Bloomberg News that the arrests “would seem to be the result of
cooperation with” an investigation in  Germany , which last year
unearthed a match-fixing gang that had Europe-wide reach.  “There are now multiple national police investigations
targeting match-fixing across the globe,” Eaton said. “I will
be interested to know for how long the information now being
acted upon in Turkey has been known.”  Besiktas Futbol Yatirimlari Sanayi & Ticaret AS dropped 6.7
percent to 9.56 liras, while Trabzonspor Sportif Yatirim &
Futbol Isletmeciligi Ticaret TAS, which isn’t under
investigation, declined 7.6 percent to 16.50 liras. The
benchmark ISE National 100 Index gained 922.22, or 1.5 percent,
to 64,186.73 by the close in Istanbul, its highest since June 7.  Prosecutor Mehmet Berk wasn’t available for comment and
Yildirim’s attorney Rezan Epozdemir said he couldn’t immediately
comment. The Istanbul Police Department declined to comment.  “Everyone should know that Fenerbahce Sports Club has
never been and will never be engaged in any unlawful and illegal
activity,” the club said yesterday in a  statement  posted on its
website. “We would like to stress our trust in our legal system
once again, wishing that the truth will come on as soon as
possible.”  Season Delayed?  Fenerbahce Sportif said today in a  statement  to the
 Istanbul Stock Exchange  that the investigation doesn’t include
its documents and records.  Officials are also investigating Kardemir Karabukspor SK,
Besiktas JK, Altay SK of Izmir and Genclerbirligi SK of Ankara
as part of the alleged match-fixing plot, according to Anatolia.  The beginning of the next football season might be delayed
because of the investigations, Milliyet reported, citing a
person from the police department. The top league is scheduled
to resume Aug. 7, according to the Turkish Football Federation’s
website.  “The judiciary has made a decision and carried out
operations within its scope,” Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan , a one-time footballer, said yesterday in response to
the bribery scandal. “Our hope is that there won’t be a
troubling situation.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emre Peker in Ankara at 
 epeker2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  