-- 
FIFA Sweeps Allegations of Soccer Graft Under Carpet, U.K. Lawmakers Say

-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 
2011-07-04T23:01:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/fifa-sweeps-allegations-of-soccer-sleaze-under-carpet-u-k-lawmakers-say.html
Soccer’s governing body  FIFA , which
has come under fire amid accusations of corruption, has sought
to “sweep all allegations of misconduct under the carpet,”
U.K. lawmakers said today.  England’s offer to stage the  World Cup , sports’ most-
watched event, came last of four bidders when Russia was chosen
for 2018 by a FIFA panel last December. Since then, FIFA and the
English bid team have both been criticized, amid corruption
concerns over the executive body that decided the hosting rights
and claims of incompetence against the English campaign.  Today’s report by the U.K.’s Culture, Media and Sport
select committee into the bid came after it took evidence from
senior soccer officials. They included  David Triesman , ex-
chairman of England’s Football Association, who alleged that
four members of FIFA’s executive committee sought favors in
exchange for votes. FIFA said there was no proof they’d done
anything wrong.  “FIFA has given every impression of wishing to sweep all
allegations of misconduct under the carpet and of dismissing
anyone bringing allegations to them with an approach bordering
on contempt,” the lawmakers’ report said.  Zurich-based FIFA remains the focus of corruption claims.
In May, it hired former FBI Director Louis Freeh to investigate
allegations that Mohamed Bin Hammam, the head of soccer in  Asia ,
and  Jack Warner , then a FIFA vice-president, conspired to bribe
voters in the Caribbean to choose Bin Hammam over FIFA’s
incumbent president,  Sepp Blatter , in an election last month.
The accused men deny wrongdoing.  Resignation  Warner, who was also the head of regional soccer body
Concacaf, resigned last month and FIFA as a result dropped its
investigation into him. In the past year, 10 of FIFA’s 24-member
executive board, including Blatter, have been suspended or
investigated over claims of improper conduct.  “We find the decision to drop the investigation following
the resignation of FIFA Vice President Jack Warner
extraordinary, and it suggests that nothing has changed,” the
U.K. lawmakers said. As a “first step towards restoring
confidence,” they called on FIFA to publish all the evidence of
any wrongdoing by officials.  Blatter, 75, won a fourth four-year term on June 1 after
Bin Hammam withdrew his candidacy. Blatter immediately announced
plans for new plans to improve his organization’s corporate
governance, saying there’d be “zero tolerance” of unethical
conduct. Last month it was announced that former U.S. Secretary
of State  Henry Kissinger  and tenor Placido Domingo had been
asked to join a council of “wise” people.  Campaign Criticized  The England bid team was criticized by the lawmakers over
how it ran the campaign.  England’s bid cost the F.A. 15 million pounds ($24.1
million) and ended in failure as a final week of lobbying by a
team including Prime Minister  David Cameron ,  Prince William  and
 David Beckham  yielded just two of 22 votes. Previously England,
which won the World Cup as host in 1966, failed to secure the
2006 event that went to  Germany .  “Lessons did not appear to have been learned from previous
studies with regard to the composition and unity of the bid
team, and the messages it needed to project,” the report said.
“More fundamentally, it appears that the groundwork for a
successful bid had not been laid effectively with football’s
international bodies.”  Alleged Corruption  England ’s bid scored highest marks on many of the technical
aspects yet failed to secure votes. Members of the bid team and
voters put much of the blame on British media. The Sunday Times
and the  British Broadcasting Corp.  both carried reports accusing
FIFA members of bribery.  The lawmakers’ 27-page report said the media were within
their rights to publish material that exposed alleged
corruption, and added that the U.K. government should evaluate
the merits of a bid before announcing the country’s candidature.
It also said the F.A. needs better engagement with its
international partners.  “We can confirm that the F.A. Chairman David Bernstein has
began a process of evaluating our current representation on FIFA
and UEFA committees, while determining how we can best
strengthen our international relationships, both formally and
informally,” the F.A. said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in the London newsroom on
  at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  