-- 
Freeport’s Grasberg Mine Workers Start Strike Over Contracts

-- B y   B a m b a n g   D j a n u a r t o   a n d   Y o g a   R u s m a n a
-- 
2011-07-04T07:03:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/freeport-s-grasberg-workers-hold-strike-today-spokesman-says.html
Workers at  Freeport-McMoran Copper &
Gold Inc. (FCX) ’s Grasberg mine in Indonesia’s Papua province started
a seven-day strike demanding wage increases, a spokesman said.  Workers put down tools at 7 a.m. local time and refused to
discuss terms of their 2011 to 2013 contracts, said Ramdani Sirait, a Jakarta-based spokesman at unit PT Freeport Indonesia.
About 8,000 non-staff workers are members of the union and not
all of them are on strike, he said.  “We’re not anticipating any impact to production at the
mine” from the strike, Sirait said by telephone today. “The
company is working diligently with the union and employee
leadership to resolve this work stoppage and has requested that
employees return to work while this issue is being resolved,”
he said in a separate e-mailed statement.  Grasberg, where operations started in 1990, contains the
world’s largest recoverable reserves of copper and the biggest
single gold reserve, according to Freeport’s website.  The workers want better welfare and a wage increase, Virgo
Solossa, the head of Freeport  Indonesia ’s labor union, said by
phone from Timika, Papua.  Copper production at the Grasberg mine fell to 1.22 billion
pounds (553.4 million kilograms) last year from 1.41 billion
pounds a year earlier, according to the  website.  Gold output
declined to 1.79 million ounces (50,745 kilograms) from 2.57
million ounces.  The stoppage won’t disrupt concentrate shipments because
Freeport Indonesia will use its stockpiles to meet contractual
sales to buyers, Sirait said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bambang Djanuarto in Jakarta at 
 bdjanuarto@bloomberg.net ;
Yoga Rusmana in Jakarta at 
 yrusmana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  