-- 
Fukushima May Worsen Global Nuclear Skills Shortage, U.K. Watchdog Says

-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 
2011-07-04T23:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/fukushima-may-worsen-nuclear-skill-shortage.html
Japan ’s nuclear disaster may worsen a
 skills shortage  in the nuclear industry as regulators look for
people able to carry out detailed assessments of  power plants ,
the U.K.’s chief inspector of atomic installations said.  “There is a question about the market hardening in terms
of the people with the right skills,” said Mike Weightman, who
led the  International Atomic Energy Agency’s  fact-finding team
to the Fukushima plant in Japan. Regulators “have to have the
resources to keep pace with that market.”  Governments around the world called for inspections of
existing nuclear sites after a magnitude-9 earthquake and
tsunami in March led to Japan’s worst atomic accident. Even as
demand rises for competent regulators, who may need up to 10
years of experience to qualify, plant operators are seeking to
replace retiring workers and prepare for new build programs.  China’s Ministry of Environmental Protection was struggling
to hire people before Fukushima, Weightman said in an interview
in  Liverpool . China plans to construct more than 100 reactors by
2020. Other nations such as the U.A.E. and  Vietnam  are preparing
to build their first atomic plants.  “It’s a crash program to get people up to competence and
it’s not just about willing people, you’ve got to breed the
culture,” said Tony Roulstone, who directs the University of
Cambridge’s masters program in nuclear technology. “Countries
are starting from scratch and you wonder where these people are
going to come from.”  Trying Circumstances  The disaster in Japan has drawn attention to the need for
people who are capable and trained to handle extreme situations,
said Weightman, who visited Fukushima at the end of May.  “People sought to do the right thing in very trying
circumstances,” he said. “They’ve cleared away a lot of the
debris, but the amount of debris and destruction that was on the
site, you just get a sense that the barriers that were in place
were just swept aside.”  Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant north
of Tokyo has been spewing radiation since an earthquake and
tsunami on March 11 knocked out cooling systems and caused three
of its six reactors to melt down. The disaster displaced 50,000
households and may cost the utility as much as 11 trillion yen
($140 billion) in compensation claims, according to Bank of
America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit.  Clear Independence  Governments seeking to protect against a Fukushima-scale
disaster need to ensure regulators are independent in practice
and in law, Weightman said. “You have to have clear
independence of the regulatory roles,” he said. “We’re in a
pretty good position in Europe.”  Stress tests ordered by the European Commission will be
carried out across  Europe  through the end of this year. China
plans to finish safety checks of all its nuclear plants by
October.  As operators consider plans to build reactors, they will
need to consider the implications of having more than one
reactor on a site, Weightman said. While modern designs have
more robust containment buildings intended to limit problems at
one reactor spreading to adjacent ones, people need to be
capable of handling the situation, he said.  Simultaneous Incidents  “Do you have enough staff on site to deal with a
simultaneous number of incidents?” he said. “When you only
have a normal shift of people, have you thought about what
people you need to respond to an incident that can affect all
that plant?”  The nuclear sector was already struggling to recruit people
prior to Fukushima, Roulstone said. Many of those working for
nuclear operators now were employed in the 1980s and are nearing
retirement, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net . 