-- 
Geneva’s Oldest Private Bank Seeks to Double Size of Japan Wealth Assets

-- B y   S h i g e r u   S a t o   a n d   S h i n g o   K a w a m o t o
-- 
2011-07-05T01:10:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/geneva-s-oldest-private-bank-seeks-to-double-japan-wealth-assets.html
Lombard Odier Darier Hentsch & Cie.,
Geneva’s oldest private bank, aims to double the wealth it
manages in Japan to 200 billion yen ($2.5 billion) in five years
through tie-ups with local lenders led by  Chiba Bank Ltd. (8331)   The Swiss firm, which has alliances with four regional
lenders including  Shizuoka Bank Ltd. (8355)  and  Yamaguchi Financial
Group Inc. (8418) , plans to clinch accords with another five banks to
boost access to more wealthy families and business owners,
Norbert Joue, president of Lombard Odier’s Tokyo office, said in
an interview.  Lombard Odier’s efforts come after  Barclays Plc (BARC)  last year
allied with  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) , Japan’s No. 2
bank by market value, to tap assets of rich Japanese seeking to
diversify their retirement portfolios. Japan has the world’s
second-highest population of millionaires, trailing only the
U.S., according to Capgemini SA and Bank of America Corp.  “We have a similar philosophy as Japanese regional lenders,
given that we have both focused on locals in our long history,”
said Joue, a 45-year-old French native who is fluent in Japanese
after residing in the country for almost two decades. “Business
owners in their early 60s are our vital clients.”  The Geneva-based bank aims to provide returns of about 4
percent on average to clients after deducting fees, and sets the
minimum principal invested at 100 million yen, said Katsutoshi Iso, executive director of the  Tokyo  office. Lombard Odier
targets generating a cumulative return of as much as 20 percent
over five years, Iso said.  Megabank Competition  To fend off competition from Japanese megabanks led by
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., Chiba Bank wants to attract
wealthy clients in its local market with Lombard Odier’s
services, said spokesman Jun Ogasawara. Japan’s fourth-biggest
regional bank by assets deployed about 100 money advisers by the
end of May to its 106 branch offices for part of its wealth
management business, he said.  Chiba Bank rose 1 percent to 520 yen at 10:06 a.m. on the
Tokyo Stock Exchange. The lender, based in the prefecture east
of Tokyo, has declined 1.5 percent this year, less than the
 Topix Banks Index (TPNBNK) ’s 6.8 percent drop.  The number of people in Japan with more than $1 million of
investable assets rose 5.4 percent last year, according to the
report by Capgemini and Bank of America’s Merrill Lynch Global
Wealth Management unit. About 80 percent of the nation’s high-
net worth individuals are over the age of 55, it said.  ‘Most Conservative’  Wealthy Japanese “remained the most conservative in the
world and held 55 percent of their aggregate portfolio in fixed
income and cash/deposit vehicles,” the firms said in the World
Wealth Report last month. That’s up from 48 percent a year
earlier and compares to the global average of 43 percent.  Sumitomo Mitsui,  Japan ’s second-biggest lender by market
value, said in December that it’s targeting about 600 billion
yen in wealth-management assets through its tie-up with Barclays,
betting savers will diversify out of concern that an aging
population will strain the pension system.  The wealth-management market in Japan for people holding
more than 100 million yen of investable assets has recovered to
more than 200 trillion yen after a slump following the global
financial crisis, Hiroyuki Miyamoto, a senior consultant at
Nomura Research Institute Ltd. in Tokyo, said July 1. The market
was as large as 250 trillion yen in 2007, Miyamoto said.  Growing concerns over Japan’s financial status and future
economic growth, coupled with the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami, increased inquiries from local customers for the bank’s
asset management services, Iso said without elaborating.  Retiring Boomers  Japan’s population is aging as people born in the five
years after the end of World War II, the so-called first-
generation baby boomers, reach retirement age. About 23 percent
of Japanese were over 64 last year, up from 20 percent in 2005,
according to the  national census  released on June 29.  Lombard Odier, founded in 1796 after the French Revolution,
has 1,900 employees worldwide in more than 20 locations and
manages 150 billion Swiss francs ($178 billion) of assets,
according to its brochure. In Tokyo, the bank has 20 people
including Joue and Iso, the French banker said.  “Smaller business owners, who have built their wealth in
Japan, have a more global mindset for protection of their
assets,” Iso said. “They aren’t going to be hung up on the
Japanese yen or Japanese bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net ;
Shingo Kawamoto at 
 skawamoto2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net . 