-- 
German Bonds Rise; Spanish, Italian Bonds Decline on Greek Default Concern

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 
2011-07-04T15:48:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/german-bonds-climb-after-s-p-says-greek-plan-may-lead-to-selective-default.html
German bonds rose, snapping a five-
day decline, after  Standard & Poor’s  said European efforts to
roll over Greek debt may constitute a default.  Spanish and Italian bonds fell as S&P said a French
proposal to swap maturing Greek debt for new securities would
qualify as a distressed exchange because it offers creditors
less than originally promised, possibly prompting a “selective
default” rating. Greek two-year notes climbed amid speculation
the European Central Bank will continue to accept the nation’s
government bonds as collateral.  “The S&P news is weighing on sentiment,” said  Michael Leister , a fixed-income analyst at WestLB AG in  London . “The
treatment by  ratings agencies  of any Greek bailout or rollover
plan is crucial given the secondary effects if they were to deem
it a  credit event . We are seeing bunds up, so it clearly
indicates that the risk-on sentiment is losing momentum.”  Ten-year bund yields fell two basis points to 3.02 percent
as of 4:34 p.m. in London. They reached 3.05 percent on July 1,
the most since June 9. The 3.25 percent security due July 2021
gained 0.125, or 1.25 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,453) face amount,
to 101.945. Two-year German note yields were little changed at
1.66 percent. They reached 1.67 percent on July 1, also the most
since June 9.  Factory Prices  Bunds stayed higher as a report showed European producer-
price inflation slowed more than economists forecast in May.
Factory-gate prices in the euro region increased 6.2 percent
from a year earlier after rising 6.7 percent in April, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today.
Economists had projected a gain of 6.3 percent, according to the
median of 21 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Greek two-year notes rose amid speculation that the ECB
will continue to accept Greek government debt as collateral,
even if S&P deems the nation in “selective default” if a bond
rollover deal is struck, maintaining a lifeline to the nation’s
banks. The ECB declined to comment on the S&P release.  Greece ’s two-year note yields fell 81 basis points to 26.03
percent. Its 10-year government bond fell, pushing the yield up
11 basis points to 16.45 percent.  “It is difficult to think of the ECB precipitating the
kind of crisis for Greece in which it wouldn’t take their bonds
as collateral,” said  Luca Jellinek , head of European interest-
rate strategy at Credit Agricole CIB in London. “To the extent
the Greek government bonds are OK, that would indicate the
market thinks a way will be found to get the ratings agencies to
not consider the Greek paper defaulted or that the ECB will say
that they will accept this paper.”  Greek Spread  The yield difference, or spread, between Greek 10-year
bonds and German bunds of similar maturity widened 15 basis
points to 1,345 basis points.  Spanish and Italian bonds trimmed last week’s gains. The
declines pushed the yield on  Spain ’s 10-year security two basis
points higher to 5.40 percent, while the yield on Italian debt
of similar maturity advanced four basis points to 4.91 percent.
Irish 10-year bond yields fell four basis points to 11.58
percent, after climbing seven basis points to 11.67 percent
earlier.  The yield difference between Spanish 10-year bonds and
German securities of similar maturity, widened four basis points
to 238 basis points, after narrowing 50 basis points last week.
The Italian-German 10-year bond spread widened seven basis
points to 190 basis points.  Austerity Plan  Bonds from  Europe ’s most indebted nations jumped last week,
while bunds declined, after the Greek parliament backed an
austerity plan aimed at winning more international aid and
forestalling default. On July 2, European finance ministers
authorized an 8.7 billion-euro loan payout to Greece by the
middle of this month.  “If Greek paper is doing OK, it’s probably because they’ve
bought some time with the additional aid and the imminent risk
of a default has subsided,” said  Charles Diebel , head of market
strategy at Lloyds TSB Bank Plc in London.  German notes may fall this week as the  European Central
Bank  raises borrowing costs. The ECB will lift its refinancing
rate to 1.50 percent from 1.25 percent on July 7, according to
the median estimate of 54 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated on June 30
that policy makers are in a state of “strong vigilance”
against inflation, a phrase he has used before previous monetary
policy tightening. The central bank raised its key rate in April
by a quarter point to 1.25 percent, the first increase in almost
three years.  “It’s widely discounted that the ECB will raise rates,”
Diebel said. “The market action will depend on how hawkish the
tone is in the statement, and whether people think there are
more rate increases coming this year.”  German  government bonds  handed investors a loss of 0.1
percent this year, compared with a return of 2.3 percent for
U.S. Treasuries and a 1.7 percent gain for U.K. gilts, according
to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies. Greek bonds have lost almost 16
percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
{Emma Charlton} in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  