-- 
Gilmore Says Wider Use of France’s Greek Debt Plan Untested

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   D a r a   D o y l e
-- 
2011-07-04T13:37:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/gilmore-says-wider-use-of-france-s-greek-debt-plan-untested-1-.html
France ’s proposal for private-sector
participation in a second bailout for Greece remains unproven
for wider use, Irish Deputy Prime Minister Eamon Gilmore said.  “France has taken an initiative on private-sector
participation in the Greek program and it appears that others
may follow suit,” Gilmore said in speech in Dublin today,
according to a text e-mailed by his office. “Whether that
approach can be generalized for more than French-held Greek debt
is yet to be tested.”  French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said on June 27 that
French banks were nearing an agreement to roll over 70 percent
of their holdings of Greek debt to 2014 as part of a second
bailout under consideration by European leaders. France’s
proposals demonstrated “innovative” ways to deal with the
 Greece ’s debts “without provoking unintended consequences,”
Gilmore said.  Financial markets have found the European Union’s lack of a
“comprehensive solution” to the sovereign debt crisis
“unsettling,” Gilmore said. Ireland is “doing its bit” to
resolve the problem, though the bloc needs to fix it “as a
whole,” he said.  Ireland, which agreed to an 85 billion-euro ($123 billion)
rescue package in November, will seek to return to international
debt markets “as soon as possible,” Gilmore said. The
difference in yield between Irish and German 10-year bonds
widened 2 basis points today to 860 basis points from July 1.  “We have suffered a huge loss of effective sovereignty
that will only be restored when Ireland can, once again, pay its
way in the world,” Gilmore said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Dara Doyle in Dublin at   ddoyle1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson at   tquinson@bloomberg.net ;
Colin Keatinge at   ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  