-- 
Global Logistic Submits Bid for LaSalle Japan’s Holdings After Earthquake

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T02:10:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/global-logistics-submits-bid-for-lasalle-japan-s-holdings-after-earthquake.html
Global Logistic Properties Ltd. (GLP) , an
operator of warehouses near seaport hubs, said it submitted a
bid to buy  LaSalle Investment Management ’s Japan holdings that
include more than 20 industrial and warehouse buildings.  The company plans to make the acquisition through a “fund
structure” with one or more institutional investors, it said in
a statement to the Singapore exchange today, responding to media
reports it’s paying S$2.1 billion ($1.7 billion) for the assets.  Global Logistic said on May 30 that it’s on the lookout for
acquisitions in Japan as it expects the economy to rebound after
the nation’s worst earthquake on March 11 and anticipates its 46
trillion yen ($570 billion) industry will benefit as more
companies cut costs and farm out more logistics services.  “Property prices should be lower after the earthquake, but
it’ll still need to look at specific terms they end up with,”
said Peter Bai Hongwei, a Beijing-based property analyst at
China International Capital Corp. “GLP has a very high
operation rate in the  Japan  market, I’m not surprised they are
making the acquisition to increase their growth rather than
simply relying on rental.”  The Singapore-based Global Logistics is also seeking new
tenants in Japan that may move out of older, non-earthquake
resistant warehouses to its newer buildings, it said in the
statement. Japan made up more than 80 percent of its revenue and
pretax earnings in the year ended March, it said.  Shares Rise  Global Logistic shares rose 0.5 percent to S$2.08 as of
9:58 a.m. in Singapore, paring the decline this year to 3.7
percent, compared with the 2.2 percent drop in the Bloomberg
Asia Pacific Real Estate Index  Global Logistic is among the companies that are in close
competition for the LaSalle assets worth 140 billion yen, which
would make it the biggest property deal in Japan in two years,
the Wall Street Journal reported yesterday, citing people
familiar with the transaction.  The company also took a $42.1 million loss in the value of
its assets in Japan after the earthquake, it said in the May
statement. The warehouse operator also said a day after the
temblor that the buildings that were damaged made up less than 1
percent of the value of its properties in Japan.  Global Logistic, which is partly owned by Government of
 Singapore  Investment Corp., the city-state’s sovereign wealth
fund, raised S$3.9 billion in October in Singapore’s biggest
initial public offering since 1993.  --Bonnie Cao. Editors: Linus Chua, Tomoko Yamazaki  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Linus Chua at 
 lchua@bloomberg.net  