-- 
Goldman Revamps Japan Investment Bank in Post-Quake Push

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-07-04T07:33:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/goldman-sachs-revamps-japanese-investment-bank-in-post-quake-business-push.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  appointed
two senior bankers to run Japanese equity and bond underwriting
and set up a public-sector group to boost its investment banking
business following the country’s record earthquake.  Yasuro Koizumi and Makoto Ito will be co-heads of the
financing group in Japan, succeeding Jasper Tans, who will
return to London, according to a memo obtained by Bloomberg News.
Mitsunari Okamoto will head the new group that will focus on the
government sector, infrastructure and utilities, the memo said.  The U.S. bank is betting that demand for debt financing
from municipalities will increase as the nation recovers from
its worst postwar disaster. Japan’s government is also preparing
to exit investments in companies including  Tokyo  Metro Co. and
Japan Airlines Co. through initial public offerings.  “We are strengthening the investment banking structure as
demand from public-sector clients will increase as the nation
looks to rebuild after the earthquake,” said Masanori Mochida,
president of Goldman Sachs Japan Co. in Tokyo. “It will enhance
our commitment to help Japan’s central and local governments
work on privatization projects and issue bonds.”  Hiroko Matsumoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman, confirmed the
contents of the memo.  Planes, Trains  State-run  Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corp. of Japan ,
which owns shares in Japan Airlines, said on July 1 it will
begin selecting lead underwriters this month for an IPO of the
carrier by January 2013. Tokyo Metro, a government-owned subway
operator, plans to list as soon as possible, according to its
business plan.  Koizumi joined Goldman Sachs in 1999 as debt syndicate head
in Japan, while Ito entered the bank in 1997 and had a stint at
equity capital markets in  Hong Kong , according to the memo.
Okamoto joined the company in 1998 and has worked at the firm’s
debt capital markets division in  New York , it said. All three
are managing directors.  Goldman Sachs in June helped the  Ibaraki prefectural
government  raise 10 billion yen ($124 million) from a bond
issuance backed by future revenue from a waste-processing
facility in the prefecture, the local government said.  The U.S. bank has experience backing sales of Japanese
government stakes in enterprises including  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) ,
 Nippon Telegraph & Telephone Corp. (9432) ,  NTT DoCoMo Inc. (9437)  and  East
Japan Railway Co. (9020) , as part of privatization campaigns.  Goldman Sachs was No. 3 underwriter for Japanese equity and
equity-linked products last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The bank helped  Panasonic Corp. (6752) , the world’s largest
maker of plasma televisions, raise 500 billion yen in Japan’s
biggest sale of corporate bonds in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  