-- 
Grace Jones Pole-Dances in Corset, Pulp Reunites: Robert Heller

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-07-04T07:16:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/grace-jones-pole-dances-in-corset-pulp-reforms-at-london-festival-review.html
Grace Jones, in a black corset, pole-
danced through “Ma Vie en Rose.” Jarvis Cocker performed an
ungainly striptease and reunited his band Pulp after a decade.  Both were highlights of the Wireless Festival, an annual
event that took place over the weekend in  London ’s Hyde Park.  Plan B’s grimy blue-eyed soul was an exception to Friday’s
line-up mostly dominated by British urban hopefuls. The
ruthlessly reductive pop automaton that is the Black Eyed Peas
headlined.  Sunday, dedicated to more alternative sounds, was more
interesting.  Roky Erickson  played ragged psychedelic rock that
harked back to his pioneering 1960s band 13th Floor Elevators.
The Naked and Famous from  New Zealand  assimilated the grandeur
of U2 and the synth hook genius of MGMT’s first album.  New
York ’s TV on the Radio astounded with a mix of musical
complexity and sing-along energy.  Jones, 63, cut a formidable stride, with her posterior-
exposing lingerie accessorized with outlandish hats. The music
was both cool and carnal.  Jones’s vigorous thrustings during “My Jamaican Guy” left
no room for doubt as to the song’s concerns.  Pulp frontman Cocker, bearded and bespectacled, was as
gangly as ever as he removed his tie and jacket. He chatted
amiably about Franz Kafka and singer  Laura Branigan  and read an
excerpt of a poem by Shelley.  Pulp, one of the leading bands of the mid-90’s Britpop
scene with 10 million album sales, ran through songs like
“Common People” and “Mis-Shapes,” which still retain their
gloriously easy ways with a big chorus. It was thrilling to hear
them again, like old friends, after so many years.  Uncool Kids  The performance had an endearing air of awkward naivety:
rock played with hope more than musical precision. Part of
Pulp’s charm was that it was definitely not the cool kids at
school. If “Disco 2000”s title date might have passed, its
musings on growing old have gained poignancy.  Saturday was the dance-music day. Chemical Brothers
featured two nondescript men bobbing up and down amid a battery
of interconnected synths. Whatever buttons they were pressing
unleashed thunderously euphoric dance grooves to the distinctly
inebriated crowd.  Janelle Monae’s music was as dazzling and daring, her
black-and-white stage show super-stylish. Katy B is also a
superstar in waiting, albeit for different reasons. Her everyman
vocals skip along to cutting-edge beats effortlessly.  Aphex Twin , one Richard James, unleashed a torrent of
jumbled electronic beats interspersed with only jittering
snatches of melody. Wholly uncompromising, he kept his large and
devoted crowd transfixed.  Rating: ***.  Information:  http://www.wirelessfestival.co.uk/2011/   Pulp plays summer shows across  Europe , including the Reading
and Leeds festivals in the U.K., with more dates being announced.  (Robert Heller is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
 Robert Heller  in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 