-- 
Greek Debt Plan May Place It in Selective Default, S&P Says

-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s   a n d   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 
2011-07-04T06:28:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/greece-debt-rollover-plan-may-put-country-in-selective-default-s-p-says.html
Standard & Poor’s  said the debt
rollover plan for  Greece  may temporarily place the country in
“selective default” if the French plan allowing bondholders to
roll over their debt is implemented.  The French proposal would qualify as a distressed debt
restructuring because it offers creditors “less value than the
promise of the original securities” and would therefore put
Greece in default, S&P said in a statement today.  Europe  is inching toward a goal of getting banks to roll
over 30 billion euros ($44 billion) of Greek bonds, instead of
opening a hole for the official lenders to fill. French banks,
with the biggest holdings in Greece, worked out a rollover
formula that is serving as an example elsewhere, with two
options for bondholders to replace their maturing securities.  “It is our view that each of the two financing options
described in the Federation Bancaire Francaise proposal would
likely amount to a default,” S&P said in the statement. “But,
once either option is implemented, we would assign a new issuer
credit rating to Greece after a short time reflecting our
forward-looking view of Greece’s sovereign credit risk.”  European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
reiterated last week that the ECB opposes “all concepts that
are not purely voluntary” and called for “the avoidance of
credit events or selective default or default.” He declined to
comment on the French proposal.  Fitch Outlook  S&P would assign a “D” rating to the maturing Greek
 government bonds  “upon their refinancing in 2011,” it added.
All debt issues would then “likely” be rated at the same level
as the new Greek rating afterwards.  “They are clearly creating a problem with what has been
discussed,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “It’s a risky exercise and
it looks from S&P’s perspective that they’re going to take no
prisoners on it. It will be a downer for the periphery, above
all for Greece, and will give bunds a bit of support.”  Fitch Ratings  said June 15 it would probably keep ratings
of Greek government bonds above default level if European Union
leaders go ahead with plans for investors to voluntarily roll
over their debt, while lowering Greece’s issuer rating to
“restricted default.”  European finance ministers have authorized an 8.7 billion-
euro loan payout to Greece by mid-July, basing a second three-
year bailout package on talks to corral banks into maintaining
their Greek debt holdings.  Different Options  Under one option of the French plan, private investors
would reinvest 70 percent of their original holdings in 30-year
Greek bonds, with the remaining 30 percent paid in cash on
maturity. Greece would use 50 percent of the original amount to
meet its financing needs with the remaining 20 percent invested
in zero-coupon bonds through a so-called special purpose vehicle
to serve as collateral to insure the banks get their principal
repaid.  The new 30-year bonds will have a coupon of 5.5 percent
with a bonus based on the growth of Greek gross domestic product
of up to 2.5 percentage points. The special purpose vehicle will
invest in AAA-rated securities that will be held as collateral
to protect the banks against a Greek default or be used to pay
off the new 30-year bonds at maturity if Greece remains solvent.
The second option of the French plan foresees rolling over at
least 90 percent of the maturing bonds into new 5-year bonds
with a 5.5 percent coupon.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Benjamin Purvis in  London  at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  