-- 
Greek Rescue Effort by Europe May Earn the Country Default Rating From S&P

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 
2011-07-04T13:22:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/greek-rescue-effort-by-europe-may-earn-the-country-default-rating-from-s-p.html
Europe’s effort to pull Greece back
from the brink may result in a default rating by  Standard &
Poor’s , exposing a critical flaw in the drive to press creditors
to assume a share of the bailout cost.  Standard & Poor’s said today a rollover plan serving as the
basis for talks between investors and governments would qualify
as a distressed exchange and prompt a “selective default”
grade. That may leave the bondholders unwilling to complete the
transaction and the European Central Bank unable to accept Greek
government debt as collateral, impairing the lifeline it has
provided the country’s banks.  “It sends all the officials and banks back to the drawing
board to think of something new,” said  Christoph Rieger , head
of fixed-income strategy at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The
ECB is saying it won’t accept debt in a default. Someone needs
to give in -- either  Germany  or the  ratings agencies  or the ECB.
One of three will have to compromise.”  The S&P statement came less than 48 hours after euro-area
finance ministers authorized an 8.7 billion-euro ($12.6 billion)
loan payout to Greece by mid-July and said they would aim to
complete talks with banks on maintaining their Greek debt
holdings within weeks. The  International Monetary Fund  indicated
it would deliver its 3.3 billion-euro share of the payment.  The prospect of a default rating adds to policy makers’
concerns that Greek officials may fail to enact the 78 billion 
euros of austerity measures that lawmakers passed last week as a
condition of receiving further aid.  Spread Widens  Greek 10-year  government bonds  fell, sending the  risk
premium  against benchmark German notes up by 12 basis points to
1,342 basis points at 2:05 p.m. in  London . Two-year Greek yields
dropped 70 basis points to 26.1 percent as the threat of
immediate default waned.  Finance ministers from the 17 euro countries meet on July
11 to work on Greece’s next rescue, which  Austria  last week said
may add as much as 85 billion euros to the bill for keeping the
country financially sound.  Greece must roll over about 4 billion euros of bills
maturing between July 15 and July 22, plus about 3 billion euros
of coupon payments in the month, according to Bloomberg
calculations. A bigger test looms Aug. 20 when 6.6 billion euros
of bonds fall due.  Bank Commitments  Europe  is inching toward a goal of getting banks to roll
over 30 billion euros of Greek bonds, instead of opening a hole
for the official lenders to fill. French banks, with the biggest
exposure to Greece, worked out a rollover formula that is
serving as an example elsewhere.  Their proposal depends on credit-rating firms not cutting
Greece and existing or newly issued government securities to
default, according to a draft of the plan.  “This does argue for possibly taking a step back and
refraining from any kind of private-sector contribution at
all,” said Marius Daheim, a senior fixed-income strategist at
 Bayerische Landesbank  in Munich. “That’s the only way out if
you want to avoid default then you have to keep the private
sector uninvolved.”  A spokeswoman for the French banking association declined
to comment, as did an ECB spokesman and Amadeu Altafaj, a
spokesman for the European Commission. German Finance Ministry
spokesman Martin Kotthaus said “exact details” are still being
negotiated.  ‘Very Good’ Proposal  Bank of France Governor  Christian Noyer , a member of the
 European Central Bank  council, said the proposal drafted by
French banks is “very good” and may make Greece’s program more
credible, according to an interview in yesterday’s Athens-based
Proto Thema newspaper.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  reiterated last week that
the bank opposes “all concepts that are not purely voluntary”
and called for “the avoidance of credit events or selective
default or default.” He declined to comment on the French
proposal.  German banks, insurers and so-called bad banks pledged last
week to buy 3.2 billion euros of maturing Greek bonds. Allianz
SE, Europe’s largest insurer, puts its share at 300 million
euros, spokesman Christian Kroos said yesterday.  Standard & Poor’s said its default rating may be temporary
and that it would assign a new grade after the exchange.  Even if S&P or other rating companies determined that the
rollover plan constituted a default, the ruling wouldn’t
necessarily trigger credit swaps insuring Greek debt. That
decision may be made by the determinations committee of the
International Swaps & Derivatives Association.  ‘D’ Rating  S&P would assign a “D” rating to the maturing Greek
government bonds “upon their refinancing in 2011,” it added.
All debt issues would then “likely” be rated at the same level
as the new Greek rating afterwards.  “It is our view that each of the two financing options
described in the Federation Bancaire Francaise proposal would
likely amount to a default,” S&P said in the statement. “But,
once either option is implemented, we would assign a new issuer
credit rating to  Greece  after a short time reflecting our
forward-looking view of Greece’s sovereign credit risk.”  Under one option of the French plan, private investors
would reinvest 70 percent of their original holdings in 30-year
Greek bonds, with the remaining 30 percent paid in cash on
maturity. Greece would use 50 percent of the original amount to
meet its financing needs with the remaining 20 percent invested
in zero-coupon bonds through a so-called special purpose vehicle
to serve as collateral to insure the banks get their principal
repaid. The second option of the plan is to reinvest at least 90
percent of the maturing securities into new 5-year bonds.  ‘Problem’  “They are clearly creating a problem with what has been
discussed,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “It’s a risky exercise and
it looks from S&P’s perspective that they’re going to take no
prisoners on it. It will be a downer for the periphery, above
all for Greece, and will give bunds a bit of support.”  Fitch Ratings  said June 15 it would probably keep ratings
of Greek government bonds above default level if European Union
leaders go ahead with plans for investors to voluntarily roll
over their debt, while lowering Greece’s issuer rating to
‘restricted default.”  Any such outcome would present a “surmountable” risk, as
long as the ECB keeps accepting the debt as collateral,  Steven Major , global head of fixed-income research at HSBC Holdings Plc
in London.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  