-- 
Greek Economic Confidence at Lowest in Over Two Years in June

-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l
-- 
2011-07-04T12:41:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/greek-economic-confidence-at-lowest-in-over-two-years-in-june.html
Greek economic confidence fell to its
lowest level in more than two years in June amid uncertainty
over euro-region decisions concerning  Greece ’s fiscal crisis and
disagreement among domestic political parties.  An index measuring short-term confidence among consumers
and businesses fell to 70 from 74 in May, the Athens-based 
Foundation for Economic & Industrial Research  said in an e-
mailed report today.  Consumer confidence  dropped 6.5 points to
minus 75, the foundation said.  “The pushing back of euro-zone decisions for an effective
solution to Greece’s probable fiscal position at the beginning
of 2012 only increased the doubts of Greeks as to the country’s
ability to emerge from the adverse situation,” the foundation
said. “Political disagreement at home also exacerbated the
negative climate.”  Decisions on the fifth installment of Greece’s 110 billion-
euros ($160 billion) of emergency loans and a three-year follow-
up package were put off from June to this month, prolonging
Greece’s fiscal difficulties. Euro-area finance chiefs said
further aid hinged on Prime Minister  George Papandreou 
delivering more budget cuts opposed by opposition parties.  Greece’s parliament last week approved the cuts while euro-
area finance ministers gave the green light on July 2 to the
next aid payment to Greece by July 15.  Increased unemployment in the private sector added to
insecurity with 94% of households expecting a rise in
joblessness, according to the report. Unemployment rose to a
record high of 15.9 percent in the first quarter from 11.7
percent a year earlier and 14.2 percent in the fourth quarter,
the Hellenic Statistical Authority said on June 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  