-- 
Strauss-Kahn Sex-Assault Case Timeline: Arrest To End of Home Confinement

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-04T14:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/timeline-on-arrest-prosecution-of-dominique-strauss-kahn.html
Following is the chronology of the
sexual-assault case against  Dominique Strauss-Kahn .  May 14: A housekeeper in the Sofitel hotel in New York claims
Strauss-Kahn sexually assaulted and attempted to rape her, He is
detained at  John F. Kennedy International Airport  and taken into
custody.  May 15: Strauss-Kahn is charged in a criminal complaint with
attempted rape and unlawful imprisonment. His lawyer  Benjamin Brafman  says he will plead not guilty.  May 16: Strauss-Kahn is ordered held without bail on Riker’s
Island, the city’s main jail complex, near  LaGuardia Airport .  May 19: Strauss-Kahn is indicted by a grand jury on seven
charges including attempted rape. The court decides on bail
terms. He resigns as managing director of the  International
Monetary Fund , saying he wants to devote his time and energy to
proving his innocence.  May 20: Strauss-Kahn is released from jail on $1 million bail,
$5 million bond and under security restrictions that include
electronic monitoring and armed guard. He is allowed to leave
home only for legal, religious and medical purposes.  June 6: Strauss-Kahn pleads not guilty to charges in the
indictment. Defense attorney Brafmen tells reporters, “There
there was no element of forcible compulsion in this case
whatsoever.”  June 8-9: The housekeeper reveals to prosecutors she lied about
a gang rape in her native Guinea and other matters on her
application for asylum in the U.S.  June 9: Kenneth Thompson, the woman’s lawyer, stops prosecutors
from interviewing her. They are unable to speak to her for
19 days.  June 28: The woman tells prosecutors she didn’t tell the truth
before the grand jury about what happened immediately after the
encounter.  June 29: Prosecutors obtain a summary of a taped telephone
conversation between the woman and a friend incarcerated in
 Arizona . The translation from her native Fulani language has the
woman saying, in substance, “Don’t worry, this guy has a lot of
money. I know what I’m doing,” according to a person familiar
with the matter.  June 30: Prosecutors receive the date of the recorded
conversation, May 15. Prosecutors also meet with defense
attorneys and turn over  information  tending to exculpate
Strauss-Kahn and impeach the maid as a witness.  July 1: Prosecutors agree to release Strauss-Kahn on his own
recognizance, while keeping his travel documents. Justice
Michael Obus of state  Supreme Court  approves, telling the
defendant, “The case is not over.” Strauss-Kahn, freed from
home confinement, is to return to court on July 18.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in  New York 
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 