-- 
Indian Equities Extend Two-Week Advance as Greece Concerns Ease

-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 
2011-07-04T12:17:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/india-nifty-futures-gain-in-singapore-as-greek-debt-default-concerns-ease.html
Most Indian stocks rose, extending a
two-week rally, as  Europe  pulled Greece back from the brink of
default and after U.S. manufacturing accelerated in June.  DLF Ltd. (DLFU) , the largest developer, climbed the most in more
than three months, and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the nation’s biggest
truckmaker, climbed 1.7 percent. Europe on July 2 authorized a
loan payout for Greece after the nation’s parliament passed
austerity measures.  Reliance Infrastructure Ltd. (RELI) , the builder of
a mass rapid transit system in Mumbai, surged 6.6 percent.  The Bombay Stock Exchange Sensitive Index, or Sensex, rose
51.68, or 0.3 percent, to 18,814.48 at the 3:30 p.m. close in
Mumbai, paring its 1 percent gain. The gauge climbed 5 percent
in the two-week period ended July 1, pushing up its five-day
relative strength index, to 76.6 on July 1. Some investors see
readings above 70 as a signal to sell.  “Positive news on  Greece  and the U.S. boosted sentiments
even though the main gauge is in overbought territory in the
short term,” said Alex Mathews, head of research at Geojit BNP
Paribas Financial Services Ltd. in Kochi.  European finance minister authorized an 8.7 billion-euro
($12.6 billion) loan payout to Greece by mid-July, basing a
second three-year bailout package on talks with corral banks
into maintaining their Greek debt holdings. In the U.S., the
 Institute for Supply Management ’s factory index climbed to 55.3
last month from 53.5 in May, the first increase in four months.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News estimated the index would
drop to 52. U.S. markets are closed today for  Independence Day .  Foreign Funds Return  The Sensex’s gain last week was the most in three months as
overseas funds turned net buyers of equities for the first time
in three weeks. They bought a net 7.72 billion rupees of  stocks
on June 29, a fifth straight day of net purchases that lifted
their total investment in equities this year to 26.7 billion
rupees,  data  from the regulator show.  The Sensex has fallen 8.3 percent this year, the worst
performer among benchmark indexes in the world’s biggest stock
markets, as  India ’s central bank raised rates 10 times since the
start of 2010 to cool rising inflation. Companies on the Sensex
are valued at 15.2 times estimated earnings, compared with 11.2
for the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  “We are at the bottom of the capital expenditure cycle and
the top of the interest rate cycle, which augurs well for
equities,” Vikram Kotak, who oversees $4.2 billion as chief
investment officer at Mumbai-based  Birla Sun Life Insurance Co. ,
said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV.  While the nation’s benchmark inflation is running at 9.06
percent, more than twice the pace in the U.S., food inflation
slowed to a six-week low, data on June 30 showed.  ‘Positive Newsflow’  DLF advanced 6 percent to 233.6 rupees, after jumping 4.7
percent on July 1, after report that it may sell its stake in
special economic zones in Pune and Noida to cut debt.  “DLF’s de-leveraging strategy has kicked off well with
successful plot sales in new Gurgaon and positive newsflow on
monetization of its IT parks,” Prakash Agarwal, an analyst RBS
Equities India Ltd. said in a July 1 report. “The interest rate
cycle and DLF’s debt are peaking out.” He has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock.  The S&P CNX Nifty Index on the National Stock Exchange
climbed 0.4 percent to 5,650.50 and its July futures settled at
5,665.60. The BSE 200 Index advanced 0.6 percent to 2,328.98.  Reliance Infrastructure  rallied 6.6 percent to 578.1
rupees.  Jaiprakash Associates Ltd. (JPA) , a builder of dams, roads and
bridges, climbed 1.7 percent to 82.7 rupees, paring this year’s
loss to 22 percent. Tata Motors advanced 1.7 percent to 1,011.65
rupees and its July futures settled at 993.90 rupees. The stock
is still the worst-performing carmarker on the Sensex.  Sugar Stocks  Sugar mills’ shares rallied after the government said it
may consider demand for further exports at a meeting of a panel
of ministers soon, Farm Minister  Sharad Pawar  said today. India
is the second-largest producer of the commodity.  The ministers may also consider demand for decontrolling
the sugar sector, he said. Exports from India may be viable as
global prices are “good,” he said.  Bajaj Hindusthan Ltd. (BJH) , the nation’s biggest sugar miller,
jumped 4.1 percent to 74.35 rupees.  Balrampur Chini Mills Ltd. (BRCM) ,
the second-largest, climbed 3.8 percent to 65.05 rupees, its
highest closing since May 18.  Shree Renuka Sugars Ltd. (SHRS) , the
nation’s biggest refiner of sweetener, jumped 6.7 percent to
73.1 rupees, its highest close since April 26.  The rupee rose for a fifth day, its longest run of gains in
almost a month, because of the inflow from overseas funds. The
rupee climbed 0.5 percent to 44.37 per dollar, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Capital inflows into stocks indicate the outlook for
 India’s economy ,” said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a Mumbai-based
currency trader at Development Credit Bank Ltd. “Equities have
rebounded.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  