-- 
Minnesota Talks on State Budget Impasse Break Without Result

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e   a n d   J o e   K i m b a l l
-- 
2011-07-05T22:02:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/minnesota-police-investigating-arson-at-governor-s-former-minneapolis-home.html
Democratic  Minnesota  Governor Mark Dayton’s talks today with Republican legislative leaders on
solving a government shutdown ended without a deal and will
resume tomorrow.  Dayton met with Senator Amy Koch, the majority leader, and
House of Representatives Speaker Kurt Zellers in his Capitol
office and another meeting is scheduled tomorrow afternoon, Jodi
Boyne, a spokeswoman for the House Republican Caucus, said in a
telephone interview.  Dayton said the meeting today was “constructive” and that
the two sides will continue talking tomorrow, spokeswoman
Katharine Tinucci said in an e-mail.  The state’s government shut down at 12:01 a.m. July 1 after
Dayton, a first-term governor, and lawmakers failed to resolve a
budget dispute in the Midwestern state of 5.3 million. The
shutdown furloughed 23,000 state workers, closed parks and
agencies, and halted construction projects.  Republicans continue to press Dayton to call a special
legislative session to pass a bill that would resume government
operations as a final agreement on outstanding budget bills is
reached, Boyne said. Dayton has said he doesn’t want to do that
without a “global agreement.”  “We would still like to see a ‘lights on’ bill passed,”
Boyne said.  Trench Warfare  If a deal is not struck this week or early next, the
shutdown could be lengthy, with both sides dug into their
positions, said Lawrence Jacobs, a  University of Minnesota 
professor who directs its Center for the Study of Politics and
Governance in  Minneapolis .  “I think it’ll either be resolved quickly, or it’s going
to be kind of a more protracted sort of situation,” Jacobs said
in a telephone interview.  Dayton has said he doesn’t want spending cuts alone to
address a $5 billion deficit, and Republicans oppose his plan
for an income-tax increase. The sides are about $1.4 billion
apart on nine of the 10 budget bills that still must be
completed, Dayton said last week.  “My ideal is anathema to them, and their ideal is anathema
to me, so we’re going to have to find some other alternatives
that may be less than desirable but are the only ones we can
agree on,” Dayton said in an interview today with Minnesota
Public Radio.  Third Way  Former U.S. Vice President Walter Mondale and former
Governor Arne Carlson announced the formation of a committee of
government officials and business leaders to provide solutions
to the governor and the Legislature by the end of the week.  Mondale is a Democrat and a former U.S. senator, while
Carlson was the state’s Republican governor from 1991 to 1999.
Although the two elder statesmen won’t be on the bipartisan
committee, Carlson said at a news conference today that the
group will provide a “third approach” to the budget battle.  Republicans offered a plan before the shutdown that
included selling bonds backed by revenue from a 1998 health-care
settlement with  tobacco companies , Zellers, the House speaker,
told reporters July 1. That would add debt, which is “ what got
us into this budget mess in the first place,” Dayton said
during a June 30 news conference at the state Capitol.  Feed the Beasts  The shutdown has left many residents guessing about what
services are functioning and which have ceased.  The Minnesota Zoo reopened July 3 after Ramsey County Chief
Judge Kathleen Gearin in  St. Paul  ruled that two accounts funded
by parking, concessions and other nonstate revenue can be used.
She previously ruled that the zoo didn’t provide essential
functions.  The state’s horse tracks, Canterbury Park Racetrack in
Shakopee, owned by  Canterbury Park Holding Corp. (CPHC) , and Running
Aces Harness Park in Columbus, remain closed.  Officials decided during the weekend to resume delivery of
 U.S. Department of Agriculture  commodities to food pantries for
the poor, said Shaye Moris, executive director of the nonprofit
Second Harvest Northern Lakes Food Bank in Duluth. Their work
was not deemed essential last week, so it appeared that
thousands of pounds of food would sit in warehouses, Moris said.  “The need is really high right now, and I can’t imagine
not being able to get this food out to those who need it,”
Moris said in a telephone interview. Her organization
distributes 64,000 pounds of commodities including ground beef,
turkey, fruits and vegetables each month to 27 agencies
throughout northeastern Minnesota, she said.  Dayton has identified additional functions he wants funded
during the shutdown, including special-education aid, chemical
dependency and mental-health care and services for victims of
domestic violence, sexual assault and other crimes, according to
a release from his office.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Niquette in Columbus, Ohio, at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  