-- 
Ireland’s First-Half Budget Deficit Widens; In Line with Target

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 
2011-07-04T16:24:04Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/ireland-s-first-half-budget-deficit-widens-in-line-with-target.html
Ireland’s budget deficit widened in
the six months through June from a year earlier due to payments
to recapitalize banks.  The deficit of 10.8 billion euros ($15.7 billion) compared
with a shortfall of 8.9 billion euros a year earlier, the
 Finance Ministry  in Dublin said in a  statement  on its website
today. While  tax revenue  was 0.7 percent below the government’s
forecast, the deficit was in line with its estimate.  There’s “nothing in the figures that would alarm us to
think we won’t reach the end of the year on target,”
Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said in an interview with
Dublin-based RTE radio aired today. “I’ll be saying to my
colleagues in government the job isn’t even half-done yet.”  Noonan is seeking to narrow the deficit to 3 percent of
gross domestic product by the end of 2015 from an underlying 12
percent last year. The state has been locked out of credit
markets since September after investors became concerned that
the cost of bailing out the country’s debt-laden financial
system was too big for the government to handle alone.  Ireland, which agreed to an 85 billion-euro rescue package
in November, will seek to return to international debt markets
“as soon as possible,” Irish Deputy Prime Minister Eamon Gilmore
said today. The difference in yield between Irish and German 10-
year bonds narrowed 2 basis points today to 856 basis points.  Anglo Irish  “The Department of Finance indicated that the exchequer
balance in the first half meets the terms” of the bailout, said
Conall MacCoille, an economist at Dublin-based securities firm
Davy. “Hence, today’s exchequer returns mean no additional
fiscal measures are required for 2011 over and above those
already set out in the last budget.”  The increase in the first-half deficit was primarily due to
3.1 billion euros in payments to Anglo Irish Bank Corp. and
Irish Nationwide Building Society, the ministry said. While some
31 billion euros of promissory note payments pledged to the
banks were included in last year’s general government deficit
figure, they are accounted for in the exchequer deficit when the
cash payments occur, according to NCB Stockbrokers.  Excluding the banking costs, the deficit narrowed by 1
billion euros, the ministry said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  