-- 
Mitsubishi, Murchison Face Cost Surge, Kopejtka Resigns

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-07-04T08:37:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/mitsubishi-murchison-face-cost-surge-kopejtka-resigns-1-.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  and  Murchison Metals
Ltd. (MMX)  may have to pay 32 percent more to build the Oakajee port
and rail project and the Jack Hills iron ore mine in Australia,
hampering Murchison from funding its share.  Oakajee may cost A$5.94 billion ($6.4 billion) to build,
according to a study released today by Murchison, the same day
the Perth-based company announced the resignation of Executive
Director Paul Kopejtka. The Jack Hills iron ore project, also an
equal joint venture with Mitsubishi, may cost A$3.7 billion.  Murchison shares fell 2 percent in Sydney. It earlier
plunged the most in more than six years on concern the cost
increases may make rival projects more likely to be developed.
While studies show both projects are viable, they have yet to
receive board approval, Murchison said.  “Funding of these projects will be more painful for the
companies and there won’t be a raft of cheap offers of finance
coming their way,” Peter Strachan, who heads Perth-based
independent advisory firm StockAnalysis, said by phone. “Other
projects may look more attractive.”  Murchison fell to 75 cents at the 4:10 p.m. close of Sydney
trading. It earlier fell as much as 21 percent to 60.5 cents,
the biggest slide since April 6, 2005. Mitsubishi rose 1.1
percent to 2,0657 yen in  Tokyo .  Kopejtka will be replaced in the short term by Trevor
Matthews who was today named chief operating officer, Murchison
said.  ‘Natural Juncture’  “The board thanks Paul for his work in developing
Murchison’s vision for the mid-west region to a critical
milestone,” new Chairman Ken Scott-Mackenzie said in the
statement. “Receipt of the feasibility studies is a natural
juncture for Paul to transition from his role of executive
chairman.”  Murchison is unlikely to be able to afford to pay for its
share of the two projects, Managing Director  Greg Martin  said on
a conference call.  The study also showed Jack Hills will produce 22 million
metric tons of iron ore concentrate, less than the originally
planned 35 million tons.  The Oakajee project also suffered a blow after foundation
partner Sinosteel Midwest Corp., a unit of Sinosteel Corp., said
last month it would halt work on the A$2 billion Weld Range iron
ore project, due to ongoing delays in the development of the
port and rail lines.  ‘Cost Blowouts’  “This indicates that cost blowouts are going to become
more of an issue across what’s a very competitive industry,”
 Lucinda Chan , division director and head of Asian business at
Macquarie Private Wealth in Sydney, said by phone.  Murchison and Mitsubishi are seeking to develop the Oakajee
port, with a planned export capacity of 45 million tons to open
up the Mid-West region of  Western Australia  for iron ore exports
to supply  steel mills  in Japan,  South Korea  and  China . The World
Steel Association said on April 18 that steel demand may
increase by 6 percent next year.  Oakajee port in August signed initial agreements with
potential customers of the project including Karara Mining Ltd.,
a venture between  Gindalbie Metals Ltd. (GBG)  and China’s Anshan Iron
& Steel Group and Sinosteel Midwest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at   ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  