-- 
NEC Plans to Increase Sales in Brazil 30% This Year in Run-Up to World Cup

-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 
2011-07-04T22:18:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/japan-s-nec-to-boost-brazil-sales-by-30-this-year-ugajin-says.html
NEC Corp. (6701)  plans to increase sales in
Brazil by 30 percent this year, boosted by rising demand as the
country prepares to host the  World Cup  and the Olympics, said
the company’s top executives in Latin America.  “Our new development area will focus in providing for the
basic infrastructure sector in the country, both public and
private,” Herberto Yamamuro, chief executive officer of NEC’s
Brazilian unit, said in a July 1 interview in Bloomberg’s office
in  Sao Paulo . The company aims to reach sales of $325 million in
the South American country this year, he said.  NEC, Japan’s biggest telecommunications equipment maker,
expects Brazil will be its fastest-growing market this year,
followed by  China , said Tadashi Ugajin, chief executive officer
for  Latin America , in the same interview.  After growing 7.5 percent last year, the fastest pace in
more than two decades, Brazil’s economy will expand 4 percent in
2011, according to the country’s central bank quarterly
inflation report, published June 29. Rising personal income and
infrastructure spending ahead of the 2014 World Cup and the 2016
Olympic Games are making Brazil a priority for NEC, the
executives said.  For this year, NEC expects to expand 20 percent on average
throughout Latin America, Ugajin said.  Imported Labor  A lack of workers in Brazil is the major challenge for NEC
to meet its expansion targets this year and 2012, according to
both executives.  “The biggest bottleneck today is the lack of the  labor
force , qualified and unqualified,” said Yamamuro. “Salaries are
high and there’s a deficit of people in the market.”  To overcome the problem, the company has been importing
professionals from other countries in the region, such as
Argentina and Colombia. According to Ugajin and Yamamuro,
Brazilian skilled workers are either retired or working abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in São Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francisco Marcelino 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net  