-- 
Japanese Stocks Rise to Two-Month High on U.S. Manufacturing, Greek Rescue

-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 
2011-07-04T08:04:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/japanese-stocks-rise-for-fifth-day-as-u-s-manufacturing-boosts-exporters.html
Japanese stocks advanced to a two-
month high after an unexpected gain in U.S. manufacturing
boosted the earnings outlook for exporters and amid growing
optimism Europe will agree to a further rescue plan for Greece.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the world’s biggest carmaker by market
value, advanced 1.5 percent.  Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) 
Japan’s largest bank by market capitalization, gained 2.8
percent. Mitsui Fudosan Co., the country’s No. 2 developer by
market value, jumped 4.2 percent after Deutsche Bank AG said
demand for high grade office space is increasing following the
country’s record earthquake in March.  “The increase in the manufacturing index shows U.S.
consumption is favorable, and signals the economy will further
recover through the end of this year,” said  Takero Inaizumi ,
head of equity research in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Investors Securities
Co. “The investment environment is changing as concerns ease
about a U.S. economic slowdown and Greek debt.”  The  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  gained 1 percent to 9,965.09 at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo, the highest level since May 2. The index earlier
rose as much as 1.4 percent, breaking 10,000 at one point,
before paring gains after Standard & Poor’s Rating Services said
a debt rollover plan for Greece may put the country in
“selective default.”  Hurdles Cleared  The broader Topix advanced 1.2 percent to 864.11 after an
index of U.S. manufacturing gained for the first time in four
months. The Topix has risen 4.7 percent in the past five trading
days as Greece cleared hurdles for getting more bailout money
from the European Union and Japanese companies including Toyota
said they were recovering more quickly than anticipated from the
disaster on March 11.  The euro area on July 2 approved its share of a 12 billion-
euro ($17.4 billion) aid payment for Greece and pledged to
complete work in the coming weeks on a second rescue package for
the cash-strapped nation. Finance ministers agreed to disburse
8.7 billion euros of loans under last year’s 110 billion-euro
bailout, rewarding Greek Premier  George Papandreou  for pushing
budget cuts and tax increases through parliament last week.  Japanese stocks rose today after a report on July 1 showed
U.S. manufacturing expanded for the first time in four months, a
sign that global industry is recovering from supply chain
disruptions stemming from Japan’s earthquake. The  Institute for
Supply Management ’s factory index rose to 55.3 last month from
53.5 in May. Economists surveyed by Bloomberg forecast the index
would drop to 52. Figures greater than 50 signal an expansion.  Toyota, Honda  Toyota, which gets almost 30 percent of its sales in  North
America , advanced 1.5 percent to 3,385 yen. Honda Motor Co., a
carmaker that gets more than 80 percent of its revenue overseas,
jumped 3.5 percent to 3,220 yen.  Banks lent the biggest support to the Topix among its 33
industry groups. Mitsubishi UFJ gained 2.8 percent to 409 yen.
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc.,  Japan ’s second-biggest
publicly traded lender by market value, rose 2.7 percent to
2,567 yen.  Property developers gained after Deutsche Bank said that
demand for high quality office space is increasing following the
magnitude-9 earthquake on March 11. More businesses are looking
for space in quake resistant buildings, the bank said in a
report dated July 1, citing a survey by Mori Building Co.  Mitsui Fudosan jumped 4.2 percent to 1,445 yen. Mitsubishi
Estate Co., Japan’s No. 1 developer by market value, advanced
2.6 percent to 1,447 yen. Smaller rival Sumitomo Realty &
Development Co. climbed 3.1 percent to 1,873 yen.  Edano Boosts Tepco  Tokyo Electric Power Co., the utility that owns the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant, surged 20 percent to
393 yen after Japan’s Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said
today he didn’t know anything about a possible government
proposal to split up the company. Edano spoke after a report
yesterday in the Mainichi newspaper that Edano’s deputy,  Yoshito
Sengoku , may recommend the company be broken up.  Exporters to  Europe  gave up earlier gains after the euro
depreciated against the yen, falling from a near four-week high
in Tokyo after S&P’s rating service said Greece might not be
able to avoid a technical default by rolling over its bonds. The
European currency weakened to as low as 117.13 yen in Tokyo,
compared with 117.73 at the opening of  stock trading .  A French proposal to have banks roll over their Greek bond
holdings would put Greece in “selective default” because it
would offer creditors “less value than the promise of the
original securities,” S&P said in a statement today. The
ratings service said it would assign a new  credit rating  to
 Greece  a short time after the country refinanced its debt.  Nippon Sheet Glass Co., a glassmaker that counts Europe as
its biggest market, dropped 0.4 percent to 252 yen after earlier
climbing as much as 1.6 percent. Nikon Corp. finished the day up
0.7 percent, paring gains of as much as 1.7 percent. The camera
maker gets almost a quarter of its sales in Europe.  “The European countries have put in so much effort the
past two weeks in having a plan to help Greece, and this is just
such a small technical issue,” said  Alex Au , Hong Kong-based
managing director of Richland Capital Management Ltd., which
oversees $300 million of assets. “Eventually they will do
whatever they can to solve this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 