-- 
Canadian Stocks Rise for Sixth Day on Gains in Gold, Crude Oil

-- B y   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-05T21:23:55Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/jean-coutu-group-petroamerica-oil-canadian-equity-preview.html
Canadian stocks rose for a sixth day,
the longest streak since April, as oil and gold’s gains drove
rallies in their producers.  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) , the country’s largest energy company,
rose 0.9 percent after Barclays Plc boosted its 2012 price
forecast for  Brent crude .  Kinross Gold Corp. (K)  gained 3.4 percent
as the metal advanced after Moody’s Investors Service said
China’s national auditor is understating banks’ loans to local
governments, spurring demand for havens. Imax Corp. fell 8.8
percent after a Janney Capital Markets analyst said 3-D movies
may be losing popularity.  The S&P/TSX Composite climbed 38.81 points, or 0.3 percent,
to 13,425.30.  “The last week or so, we’ve gotten a much better
indication the data is not slowing as much as once feared,”
said Barry Schwartz, a  money manager  at Baskin Financial
Services Inc. in Toronto, which oversees C$420 million ($437
million). “Even if China is cooling, the demand for commodities
is not going to abate.”  The S&P/TSX increased 3.7 percent from June 24 to yesterday
as Greece approved an austerity package and a gauge of U.S.
manufacturing rose. The index has slipped 0.1 percent this year.  Crude oil  climbed to a three-week high today in  New York .  “Forecasts show a continuation of robust emerging market
demand,” Barclays analysts led by  Paul Horsnell  in London wrote
in a report today.  Energy Shares  Suncor rose 0.9 percent to C$38.83.  Canadian Natural
Resources Ltd. (CNQ) , the country’s second-largest energy company by
market value, advanced 1.5 percent to C$41.51. Niko Resources
Ltd., which produces oil and gas in South Asia, rebounded 6.4
percent to C$63.67 after closing at a 26-month low yesterday.  Gold and silver rallied on speculation that a deteriorating
credit outlook in China will boost demand among investors for a
hedge. Moody’s said non-performing loans in China may rise to as
high as 12 percent of total credit.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  said in a report it sees potential for
a second-half rally in gold producers’ shares.  Kinross climbed 3.4 percent to C$15.91.  Eldorado Gold
Corp. (ELD) , which mines in China and Turkey, rose 5 percent to
C$14.86.  European Goldfields Ltd. (EGU) , which explores in Europe,
jumped 8 percent to C$10.88.  Novagold Resources Inc. (NG) , which is
developing gold and base-metal properties in Alaska and British
Columbia, soared 9.7 percent to C$9.76.  Extends Gain  Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the forestry company fighting a short
seller’s assertions of financial manipulation, increased 27
percent to C$5.29, a day after Wellington Management Co.
disclosed a stake in the company. The shares have more than
doubled in price over the past five days. Wellington, a Boston-
based money manager, bought an 11.5 percent stake in the
company, according to a filing to Canadian regulators yesterday.  Shares of Sino-Forest remain down 71 percent since June 1,
the day before Muddy Waters LLC said its stated land holdings
don’t match Chinese city records.  All eight S&P/TSX banks retreated after Moody’s cut
 Portugal ’s credit rating to a junk level. Royal Bank, Canada’s
largest lender by assets, lost 1.3 percent to C$54.85. Toronto-
Dominion Bank, its biggest competitor, slipped 1.1 percent to
C$81.01  Imax, the maker of giant-screen movie-projection systems,
tumbled 8.8 percent, the most in almost a year, to C$29.12. Tony Wible, an analyst at Janney Capital, cut his ratings on U.S.
movie-theater owners Regal Entertainment Group and Cinemark
Holdings Inc.  Lack of Content  In a note to clients, he said 3-D screens’ market share is
dropping due to children’s difficulty with the glasses and a
“lack of unique high-quality 3-D content.”  The $14 million in domestic opening-weekend revenue from
Imax 3-D showings of “Transformers: Dark of the Moon” probably
disappointed many investors, Benjamin Mogil, an analyst at
Stifel Financial Corp., said in a note to clients.  Pharmacy-benefits manager  SXC Health Solutions Corp. (SXC)  rose
for an eighth day, surging 4.5 percent to a record C$61.25.
Arthur I. Henderson, an analyst at Jefferies Group Inc., called
the company a “top idea” in health care in a note to clients  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Walcoff at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  