-- 
Kenya Shilling Heads for First Weekly Gain in Five

-- B y   J o h n s t o n e   O l e   T u r a n a
-- 
2011-07-04T11:34:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/kenya-shilling-heads-for-first-weekly-gain-in-five-correct-.html
(Corrects to say that  Kenya  is East Africa’s biggest
economy in second paragraph of story published on July 1.)  Kenya’s shilling advanced and headed
for the first weekly gain in five against the dollar as the
central bank’s steps to curb the use of overnight funds for
foreign-exchange trading started taking effect.  The currency of East Africa’s biggest economy gained for
the fourth day, appreciating 0.6 percent to 88.82 per dollar by
2:22 p.m. in Nairobi, the capital, taking its rally this week to
1.9 percent, the first weekly increase since the period through
May 27. A close at this level would be the highest since June
15.  “The shilling’s gain is being driven by the tight
liquidity in the market and supported by the central bank’s move
to stop the use of funds borrowed from the overnight window for
trading in the foreign-exchange market,” Wilson Mutai, a dealer
at Nairobi-based African Banking Corp., said in a phone
interview today.  The Central Bank of Kenya raise the overnight lending rate
to 8 percent to rein in price growth and curb speculation in the
shilling, it said on June 29. It previously used the benchmark
central  bank rate , which is at 6.25 percent, to price overnight
loans. The bank, which said it will review the bank-lending rate
daily, left it unchanged for a second day, it said on its
website today.  Kenya’s three-month borrowing costs fell for the third
successive weekly auction as the central bank received fewer
bids for the debt than the amount it offered at a sale
yesterday. Yields climbed to a nine-year high on June 10 as the
shilling depreciated to the weakest in 17 years.  Repurchase Rejections  The bank rejected all 1 billion shillings ($11 million) of
bids for the 500 million shillings of repurchase agreements it
offered for sale today, according to an official at the Nairobi-
based lender who declined to be identified in line with its
policy.  The central bank started selling repurchase agreements on
May 11 in a bid to remove supply of currency in the market. It
has either rejected or not received any bids at all daily sales
since June 14.  In a repurchase agreement an investor agrees to sell a
security to another trader, while at the same time arranging to
buy it back at a future date and at a pre-determined price.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Johnstone Ole Turana in Nairobi at 
 jturana@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  