-- 
Harry Kewell’s Return to Australia With A-League Soccer Club in Doubt

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-07-04T06:09:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/kewell-won-t-play-in-a-league-after-ffa-rejects-proposal-manager-says.html
Socceroos forward  Harry Kewell  is
unlikely to play in the A-League next season after negotiations
with Football Federation Australia broke down, his manager
Bernie Mandic said.  The Sydney-based FFA rejected a proposal that would see the
former Liverpool and Leeds player receive a 30-70 percent split
of any additional gate revenue from A-League away games he plays
in, Mandic said today in an interview with SEN radio.  “The most disappointing part of it is we had just come to
agreement with both Sydney FC and Melbourne Victory,” Mandic
said. “We were in the final stages of Harry choosing his
Australian destination. We don’t have the time to explore
additional avenues.”  The 32-year-old Kewell, an attacking midfielder who can
also play as a striker, is out of contract after being released
by Turkish club Galatasaray. He’s scored 16 goals in 53
appearances for  Australia ’s national team.  Kewell has offers from clubs outside Australia, Mandic
said. A deal to play in the A-League next season would only
happen under the 30-70 proposal, he added.  “People actually keep throwing money at us, we don’t want
their money,” Mandic said. “They come up with these formulas
of their own. It is a simple formula, it is bums on seats,
additional revenue.”  ‘Responsible and Prudent’  The FFA said today it was satisfied that its offer of a
“marketing services agreement” with Kewell would be a
“responsible and prudent way to lift the profile and
marketability of the A-League and complement any contract Harry
may sign with an individual club.”  “The fact remains that Harry Kewell would be a fabulous
acquisition for any A-League club and would be a great boost for
the competition,” the FFA said in a  statement .  Melbourne Victory “remains extremely interested” in
signing Kewell, said Managing Director Richard Wilson, adding
that its negotiations with Mandic are separate to those of the
governing body.  “It’s very much in Bernie’s hands,” Wilson said at a news
conference. “We’ve put a very strong proposal to bring Harry to
Melbourne Victory. We remain very hopeful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  