-- 
Komatsu Japan Sales Gain on Rebuilding as China Demand Falls

-- B y   M a s u m i   S u g a
-- 
2011-07-04T08:25:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/komatsu-s-japan-sales-gain-on-post-quake-rebuilding-as-china-demand-slows.html
Komatsu Ltd. (6301) , the world’s second-
largest construction machinery maker, said Japan’s bid to
rebuild the nation from its worst postwar disaster is spurring
demand at home amid slumping sales in  China , its biggest market.  Japanese orders increased more than 30 percent in April-
June from a year earlier, Chief Executive Officer Kunio Noji
said in an interview at the company’s Tokyo headquarters. Sales
in China, which declined about 40 percent in the past two months,
may not revive until the Lunar New Year in January, the
beginning of the nation’s peak demand season, he said.  Sales of excavators and wheel loaders are likely to grow in
the next three to five years as  Japan  spends an estimated 16.9
trillion yen ($209 billion) to reconstruct bridges, roads and
buildings destroyed by the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.
Orders in China, which overtook Japan as Komatsu’s largest
market in 2009, slowed as the government tightened credit to
cool the economy.  “There’ll be much rebuilding work, given the damage is
more extensive than the Kobe earthquake,” Noji said in the June
30 interview, referring to the 1995 quake that affected a
smaller area and didn’t induce a tsunami.  Komatsu gained 2.1 percent to 2,541 yen as of the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo. The shares have climbed 3.4 percent this year,
compared with a 2.6 percent decline in the Nikkei 225 Stock
Average index.  Rivals in China  Komatsu’s Japan sales are forecast to increase 1.4 percent
to 255 billion yen this fiscal year, the company  said  on April
27, without accounting for post-earthquake demand. Chinese sales
may reach 380 billion yen, Komatsu said at the time.  The Chinese government’s measures to tighten credit and the
delay in approving some public works projects slowed demand for
construction machinery, Nomura Securities Co. said in a May 27
report. Komatsu’s excavator sales in China fell 42 percent in
May from the same month a year earlier after an 8 percent gain
in April, Nomura said in a June 2 report.  Komatsu aims to defend its lead over local rivals in China,
including Sany Heavy Industry Co., by offering customers value-
added products such as hybrid machines that consume less fuel
than conventional ones and come equipped with global-positioning
systems, Noji said. Sany Heavy’s excavators are priced about 25
percent lower than Komatsu’s, he said.  About 5,000 of Komatsu’s heavy machines are being used in
the three prefectures hit most by the quake, about a third more
than the number before the disaster, according to the data
collected by the GPS systems fitted in the machines, Komatsu
said today in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masumi Suga in  Tokyo  at 
 msuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs in Sydney at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net . 