-- 
Aussie Drops as RBA Flags Slower Growth; Kiwi 0.6% From Record

-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 
2011-07-05T06:39:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/n-z-dollar-reaches-record-on-business-confidence.html
The Australian dollar fell against
all its major counterparts after the central bank left  interest
rates  unchanged for a seventh straight meeting and said growth
this year is unlikely to match earlier forecasts.  The so-called Aussie fell for a second day against the U.S.
currency as traders added to bets that the  Reserve Bank  of
Australia will lower benchmark rates this year. Two-year bond
yields declined. New Zealand’s dollar was 0.6 percent from a
record high after business confidence rebounded, raising
prospects that the nation’s central bank will boost record-low
rates as the economy recovers from February’s earthquake.  “It looks like the RBA has revised down growth in their
forecasts,” said  Richard Grace , Sydney-based chief currency
strategist and head of international economics at Commonwealth
Bank of  Australia . “You’d expect local bond yields to adjust a
little lower and therefore interest-rate spreads will compress
and put some mild dampening pressure on the Australian dollar.”  Australia’s currency dropped to $1.0680 as of 4:39 p.m. in
Sydney from $1.0734 in  New York  yesterday. It fell 0.2 percent
to 86.60 yen. New Zealand’s dollar bought 82.86 U.S. cents from
82.96 yesterday, after earlier rising to 83.32 cents, the
highest since the currency was freely floated in 1985. It gained
to 67.19 yen from 67.04 yen.  Slower Growth  “Growth through 2011 is now unlikely to be as strong as
earlier forecast,” RBA Governor  Glenn Stevens  said in a
statement accompanying the bank’s decision. “Over the medium
term, overall growth is still likely to be at trend or higher,
if the world economy grows as expected.”  Inflation is expected to near the RBA’s 2 percent to 3
percent target in the next year, he said.  The yield on Australia’s two-year government bond fell 5
basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 4.70 percent.  Traders increased to 46 percent the probability that the
RBA will lower its key rate by December, up from 36 percent
yesterday, Bloomberg calculations based on interbank cash-rate
future contracts show.  Benchmark interest rates are 4.75 percent in Australia and
2.5 percent in  New Zealand , compared with as low as zero in the
U.S. and  Japan , attracting investors to the South Pacific
nations’ higher-yielding assets. The risk in such trades is that
currency market moves will erase profits.  Australia’s dollar earlier maintained losses after the
statistics bureau said in a report that the nation’s trade
surplus was A$2.33 billion ($2.5 billion) in May, compared with
the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey for a surplus of
A$1.9 billion.  N.Z. Confidence  The kiwi dollar rose for a second day against Australia’s
after the  New Zealand Institute of Economic Research  said a net
27 percent of the 782 companies surveyed expect the economy to
improve in the next six months. In the previous survey, a net 27
percent saw a deterioration.  “The survey number paints the picture of an economy that’s
definitely on the recovery track and gaining momentum,” said
Khoon Goh, head of market economics and strategy at ANZ National
Bank Ltd. in Wellington. “The domestic fundamentals are
supportive of the kiwi.”  New Zealand was struck by its deadliest earthquake in 80
years on Feb. 22, prompting the central bank to cut rates. Goh
predicts the central bank will begin raising borrowing costs in
December.  New Zealand’s two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to
receive floating rates which is sensitive to interest-rate
expectations, was at 3.40 percent, the most since June 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  