-- 
Naira Slips Most in Week as Bank Fails to Meet Dollar Demand at Auction

-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 
2011-07-04T17:43:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/naira-slips-most-in-week-as-bank-fails-to-meet-dollar-demand-at-auction.html
Nigeria ’s naira depreciated most in
almost a week against the dollar as the West African nation’s
central bank failed to meet lenders’ demand for the U.S.
currency at an auction today  The currency of Africa’s biggest oil producer retreated 1.1
percent to 152.8 per dollar in interbank trading by 6:11 p.m. in
Lagos, the biggest intraday decline since June 28, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Last week, the currency had its
biggest five-day advance since August 2005, adding 3.3 percent.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  sold $150 million today, the
smallest amount since its Feb. 2 sale and less than the $192.3
million demanded by lenders, the Abuja-based Central Bank of
Nigeria said in e-mailed statement. The marginal rate, which is
also used as the prevailing exchange rate, was 150.9 naira per
dollar, the strongest since the March 9 sale.  “The depreciation at the  interbank market  was due to
demand pressure from the central bank’s inability to meet demand
at its auction,” Wale Abe, chief executive officer of the
Financial Market Dealers Association, which groups lenders
trading in the money market, said by phone today.  The naira may strengthen to 145 per dollar by the end of
the year after policy makers decided to lift a requirement for
foreign investors to hold local-currency investments in
 government securities  for at least a year, central bank Governor
Lamido Sanusi said June 23. The new rules took effect on July 1.
The central bank aims to keep the naira within a range of 3
percent above or below 150 per dollar.  The market “sees the dollar losing to the naira in the
future from the lifting of the restriction on fixed income
flows,” Babatunde Obaniyi, an analyst at Lagos-based Afrinvest
West  Africa  Ltd., said by phone. ’’Dollars are expected from
foreign investors, which are expected to appreciate the naira.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos via Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 