-- 
Djokovic Sees More Competitive Era in Men’s Tennis After Winning Wimbledon

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 
2011-07-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/new-no-1-djokovic-sees-more-competitive-era-after-wimbledon-tennis-win.html
New World No. 1 Novak Djokovic said
his victory over  Rafael Nadal  in the Wimbledon final will usher
in an era of greater competition in men’s tennis.  “Now, more so than in the last five years, I think more
players are able to win majors and more players are candidates
for the top spots,” Djokovic said on the ATP website. “It
feels good for the sport.”  The Serb, whose eight titles this year also include the
Australian Open, replaced Nadal as the top-ranked player on the
men’s ATP World Tour yesterday. The Spaniard, who has lost to
Djokovic five times this year, is ahead of world No. 3  Roger Federer , who has won a record 16 Grand Slam singles titles,
while Britain’s  Andy Murray  stays fourth.  Since the 2004 Australian Open, Djokovic is one of only
four men other than Federer or Nadal to have won a Grand Slam
championship alongside Argentines Gaston Gaudio and Juan Martin del Potro, and  Russia ’s Marat Safin.  The win two days ago gave 2008 Australian Open champion
Djokovic a third Grand Slam title. Nadal picked up his 10th
major win at the French Open this year. Murray, 24, has yet to
win one of the sport’s four biggest events after reaching the
finals of the past two Australian Opens and the 2008  U.S. Open .  “Federer is still playing great; he showed that at the
French Open and I’m sure he wants to come back and win more
majors,” Djokovic said. “Then you have Nadal who is at the top
of his form and Murray, who I think in the last three or four
months has been a real contender for a Grand Slam title.”  Nadal’s Run Ends  Djokovic beat Nadal 6-4, 6-1, 1-6, 6-3 at the All England
Club in southwest  London . The 24-year-old’s first Grand Slam
victory over the Spaniard ended an unbeaten run for the
defending champion at Wimbledon that stretched back to 2007.  Nadal won the 2008 title over Federer and missed the next
tournament with a knee injury. He returned and beat Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic in last year’s final.  Djokovic has a 48-1 record this year and will play in
defending champion  Serbia ’s Davis Cup quarterfinal in Sweden
this week. He began a run of 43 straight wins and seven
tournament titles when leading Serbia to its first Davis Cup
victory in December.  Djokovic secured the No. 1 spot by beating  France ’s Jo- Wilfried Tsonga in the Wimbledon semifinals. Djokovic is the
first player other than Nadal or  Switzerland ’s Federer to hold
the top ranking since  Andy Roddick  of the U.S. in February 2004.  41 Straight Wins  Djokovic defeated Federer in the semifinals of the U.S.
Open after facing two match points and also beat him at the same
stage of this year’s Australian Open.  After beating Murray to win this year’s Australian Open,
Djokovic didn’t lose again until the  French Open  semifinals,
when Federer, 29, ended his run of 41 straight wins since the
start of the year.  The Serb can’t expect to be so dominant for long, Nadal
said. The next Grand Slam, the  U.S. Open , runs Aug. 29 through
Sept. 11.  “My experience says this level is not forever,” the 25-
year-old Spaniard said. “Even for me, when I was last year
winning three Grand Slams, my level of last year is not forever.
Probably the level of Novak of today is not forever. I am going
to be here fighting all the time, waiting for my moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at 
 celser@bloomberg.net . 