-- 
Nigeria May Nationalize Banks If Cash-Injection Target Deadline Isn’t Met

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-07-05T15:30:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/nigeria-may-nationalize-banks-if-cash-injection-target-not-met.html
Nigeria  may nationalize banks that
don’t meet a Sept. 30 deadline to increase their equity, rather
than forcing them to liquidate, the central bank’s Deputy
Governor Kingsley Moghalu said.  The Asset Management Corp. of Nigeria, or Amcon, created by
the central bank to buy the bad debts of lenders, may become a
majority shareholder in rescued banks by plugging their equity
shortfalls, Moghalu said in an interview in  South Africa ’s
capital, Pretoria, on July 1.  The  Central Bank of Nigeria  bailed out eight of the
country’s 24 lenders in 2009, pumping 620 billion naira ($4.1
billion) into the industry to prevent its collapse. The rescued
banks have until the end of September to recapitalize or merge
with new investors to avoid liquidation.  Finbank Plc (FIRSTINL) ,
 Intercontinental Bank Plc (INTERCON)  and Union Bank of Nigeria Plc are the
only lenders to agree on transactions so far.  “The deadline is a very serious one,” Moghalu said. “We
have the responsibility as a systemic financial regulator to
make sure the banking system is normalized by the end of the
year.”  While nationalization is not the “favored option,” it is
preferable to liquidation, Moghalu said. If Amcon takes a
majority stake in a lender, it may manage the bank for a year or
two before selling it, he said.  Stability Restored  Governor Lamido Sanusi has led a restructuring of the
banking industry since the 2009 debt crisis, which was sparked
by a slump in equities and  oil prices  and resulted in $10
billion of toxic debts on banks’ books. Intercontinental Bank
and Union Bank are among failed lenders that have returned to
profit.  “Stability in the short term has been achieved,” Moghalu
said. “The banking system is functioning. We are working
towards medium to long-term stability, but for that to happen,
we must resolve the eight banks in which we’ve intervened.”  The  Bloomberg NSE Banking (NGSEB10)  Index, which comprises the 10
biggest Nigerian lenders, fell 0.5 percent to 363.24 at the
close of trading in Lagos.  Oceanic Bank International Plc (OCEANIC) , one
of the lenders bailed out by the central bank, fell 1.4 percent
to 1.44 naira, while  Bank PHB Plc (PLATINUM)  increased 1.2 percent to 83
kobo. The other rescued banks are Afribank Plc, Equitorial Trust
Bank Ltd. and  Spring Bank Plc. (SPRINGBK)   “While the Central Bank of Nigeria appears to have soft-
pedaled relative to its initial stance,” Moghalu’s comments
indicate it is still determined to refinance the failed banks,
Adesoji Solanke, a banking analyst at  Renaissance Capital  in
Lagos, said in a note to clients today.  Stalling Tactics  Some shareholders and former bank executives have sought to
stall the recapitalization process through court action. Erastus Akingbola, the previous managing director of Intercontinental
Bank, and Finbank’s ex-Managing Director Okey Nwosu, had their
applications to halt the process dismissed last month.  A lack of clarity on the positions of Nigeria’s failed
banks has led to “uncertainty” for investors,  Fitch Ratings 
said on June 15. If Nigeria is “less inclined” to support the
banks, there may be negative implications for the ratings on
Nigerian banks, Fitch said.  “There are a number of vested interests coming to scuttle
the process,” Moghalu said. “I can assure you those vested
interests won’t prevail. As the regulator, we have the policies
and powers to make sure we restore full financial stability one
way or another.”  At least three of the rescued banks are expected to sign
agreements with investors in coming weeks, Moghalu said,
declining to elaborate further. The  central bank  is also
investigating options aside from nationalization and liquidation
for lenders that fail to meet the Sept. 30 deadline, he said,
without giving details.  “I want to downplay the option of liquidation,” Moghalu
said. “We put out the threat, but it was to concentrate
people’s minds. It doesn’t mean we will wake up and liquidate
banks. If people want to play rough, we have to show them we can
play rough.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Johannesburg at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net . 