-- 
Nigerian Eurobond Yields Reach Record Low on Greece, Naira Currency Gains

-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 
2011-07-04T15:52:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/nigerian-eurobond-yields-reach-record-low-on-greece-naira-currency-gains.html
Nigeria ’s dollar bond yields fell to
a record low as demand for higher-yielding assets rose after
officials approved an aid payment to Greece to prevent a default
and the naira gained after an inflow curb was lifted.  The yield on the 6.75 percent Eurobonds of Africa’s biggest
oil producer due 2021 fell nine basis points, or 0.09 percent to
5.961 percent, the lowest level since the debt was issued in
January, as of 4:27 p.m. in London, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The bonds’ price gained 0.6 percent to 105.685
cents on the dollar. The $500 million of bonds are Nigeria’s
only international notes.  “We see the ongoing rally of the Eurobond as the result of
a rebound in global sentiment as well as an improving consensus
view on Nigeria,”  Alan Cameron , an economist at CSL
Stockbrokers Ltd. in London said in an e-mailed response to
questions today. “The recent removal of the one-year holding
period on foreign investment into the  bond market  is an
important factor, as is the recent appreciation of the naira.”  Nigeria’s naira has appreciated 2.5 percent to 152.8 per
dollar since June 23 after central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi
announced that the nation would lift a requirement for foreign
investors to hold local-currency investments in  government
securities  for at least one year from July. Europe’s finance
ministers authorized an 8.7 billion-euro ($12.6 billion) loan
payout to Greece by mid-July and said they would aim to complete
talks with banks on maintaining their Greek debt holdings within
weeks.  Rating Upgrade  West  Africa ’s most populous nation is rated B+ by Standard
& Poor’s and BB- with a “negative” outlook by  Fitch Ratings .
Fitch may upgrade its outlook within the next 12 months to 18
months because of the creation of a sovereign wealth fund that
may help the country save more of its oil revenue and funnel
money into projects, Morgan Stanley said in a report June 28.  Nigeria’s economy may overtake South Africa’s by 2025 to
become the biggest on the continent as oil prices climb and
 consumer spending  in the nation expands, Morgan Stanley said.  A militant Islamic sect killed 10 people in bomb and gun
attacks yesterday in Nigeria’s northeastern city of Maiduguri,
Major-General Jack Nwaogbo, commander of a military  task force 
in charge of security in the region, said today by phone.  “Although outbreaks of violence in the North have been
more frequent than usual, they are part of a well known problem,
and one which does not typically have much impact on markets,”
said Cameron.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in  London  at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  