-- 
Oil Trades Near $95 in New York After Greek Loan; IEA Sales ‘Successful’

-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 
2011-07-05T01:54:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/oil-trades-near-95-in-new-york-after-greek-loan-iea-sales-successful-.html
Oil traded near $95 a barrel in  New
York , after advancing 4.2 percent last week, amid speculation
Europe’s steps to resolve  Greece ’s debt crisis will prevent a
slowdown in the region’s economy, bolstering fuel demand.  Futures were little changed today after climbing the most
in almost three months last week. U.S. markets were closed
yesterday for the Independence Day holiday. European finance
ministers approved July 2 aid payment to Greece. The sale of
U.S. emergency crude reserves as part of a 60 million-barrel
stockpile release has been “very successful,” the
 International Energy Agency  said.  “The Greek situation is still on the periphery of the
market,” said  Ben Westmore , a minerals and energy economist at
National Australia Bank Ltd. in  Melbourne , who predicts oil will
average $113 a barrel in the third quarter. “There seems to be
some skepticism mounting that the 60 million barrels that was
announced will all end up reaching the market. It takes some of
the weakness out of the oil price.”  Oil for August delivery was at $95.07 a barrel, up 13
cents, in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
at 11:35 a.m. Sydney time. Nymex floor trading was closed
yesterday for the Fourth of July holiday. Electronic trades are
booked with today’s transactions for settlement purposes.
Futures are 32 percent higher the past year.  Brent oil for August settlement was at $111.51 a barrel, up
12 cents, on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark contract was at a premium of $16.44 to U.S.
futures. The spread reached a record $22.29 on June 15.  IEA Release  The IEA, an adviser to 28 oil-consuming nations, said June
23 its members will release 60 million barrels of crude and oil
products, the first such deployment in five years, after the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries failed on June 8
to announce a plan on making up for halted Libyan exports.
Twelve IEA countries are making fuels available from government
and industry reserves.  Oil dropped 4.6 percent June 23 after the IEA said members
will release the crude from strategic reserves over 30 days to
make up for a supply shortfall in  Libya . Half will come from the
U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  “The initial signs from the U.S. this time around are
looking good so we would hope that a very sizeable proportion of
this would be taken up,”  David Fyfe , the Paris-based agency’s
head of oil industry and markets division, said yesterday.  New York crude slumped 11 percent in the second quarter on
speculation Greece’s debt crisis will stall Europe’s economic
recovery. European officials agreed to make the payout after
Greece’s parliament passed austerity measures. Finance chiefs
gather next week to tackle the country’s long-term lifeline.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski in Singapore at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  