-- 
Hong Kong Stocks Rise as Greece Loan Boosts Economic Prospects

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-07-04T08:57:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/hong-kong-stocks-rise-as-greece-loan-boosts-economic-prospects.html
Hong Kong  stocks rose, with the Hang
Seng Index set for its biggest two-day advance since November,
as Europe pulled Greece back from the brink of default,
improving the outlook for exporters and banks, and after U.S.
manufacturing accelerated.  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , Europe’s biggest bank by market value,
climbed 1.6 percent.  Esprit Holdings Ltd. (330) , a clothier that
counts Europe as its largest market, gained 2.1 percent.  Cnooc
Ltd. (883) , an oil producer, increased 1.9 percent as crude extended
last week’s rally after Europe authorized a loan payout for
Greece. BYD Co., the Chinese carmaker backed by  Warren Buffett ,
jumped 10 percent on speculation China’s car sales will recover
from a slowdown.  “The Greek debt plans and better U.S. data has helped
markets to recover from their downbeat mood,” said  Stephen Halmarick , Sydney-based head of investment markets research at
Colonial First State Global Asset Management, which oversees
about $150 billion. “It’s increased the appetite for risk among
investors looking for further signs of recovery in the global
economy.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  gained 1.7 percent to 22,770.47 at the
4 p.m. close of trading in Hong Kong, extending two straight
weeks of gains. Three of four industry groups tracked by the
index advanced, led by financial companies. The Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index of Chinese companies’ H shares climbed 2.4
percent to 12,873.60.  Inflation Fight  Futures on the benchmark index advanced 1.9 percent to
22,845. The city’s stock market was closed on July 1 for Hong
Kong’s Establishment Day. The Hang Seng Index has fallen 6.8
percent from this year’s high on Jan. 19, and posted its first
quarterly decline in a year amid intensifying efforts by China
to fight inflation and mounting concern  Greece  would fail to
resolve its debt crisis.  Futures on the  Standard & Poor’s  500 Index fell 0.2 percent
today. The benchmark index for stocks in the world’s largest
economy last week recorded its biggest weekly advance since July
2009 as Greece lurched toward rescue and economic reports
bolstered the case for recovery.  The  S&P 500 index  advanced 1.4 percent on July 1 after the
Institute for Supply Management’s factory index rose to 55.3
last month from 53.5 in May, the first gain in four months.
Economists surveyed by Bloomberg News estimated the index would
drop to 52. A figure greater than 50 signals expansion. U.S.
markets are closed today for  Independence Day .  HSBC climbed 1.6 percent to HK$78.30. Esprit rose 2.1
percent to HK$24.70.  Cosco Pacific Ltd. (1199) , which operates
container facilities at Greece’s Piraeus port, advanced 3.5
percent to HK$14.16.  Bailout Package  European finance ministers authorized an 8.7 billion-euro
($12.6 billion) loan payout to Greece by mid-July, basing a
second three-year bailout package on talks to corral banks into
maintaining their Greek debt holdings.  Europe’s agreement on July 2 to make the payout ended a
pivotal week for Greece and the euro, providing a respite from
the political tensions, clashes with central bankers and
jousting with investors that have dogged the crisis-fighting
effort. The finance chiefs gather again July 11 to tackle
Greece’s long-term lifeline.  “The near-term threat of a contagion event in relation to
European sovereign debt has been avoided, leading to a short-
term re-assessment of risk,” said  Tim Schroeders , who helps
manage $1 billion in global equities as a portfolio manager at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in Melbourne. “The sustainability of the
improved sentiment remains questionable given prevailing
risks.”  Debt Rating  Stocks held their gains even as  Europe ’s effort to pull
Greece back from the brink may be slapped with a default rating
by Standard & Poor’s. Standard & Poor’s said today a rollover
plan serving as the basis for talks between investors and
governments would qualify as a distressed exchange and prompt a
“selective default” rating.  “All we have seen so far are suggestions of possible
actions and possible responses,” said  Angus Gluskie , who
manages about $350 million at White Funds Management Pty. in
Sydney. “All courses of action are open, some of which may
constitute a default and some of which may not.”  Cnooc increased 1.9 percent to HK$18.50 as oil futures rose
as much as 0.6 percent today in  New York . Jiangxi Copper Co.,
China’s biggest producer of the metal, climbed 2.9 percent to
HK$26.60 as copper traded in  London  climbed for the fifth
straight day today.  Mongolian Coal  China Shenhua Energy Co. climbed 3.2 percent to HK$38.30.
The company’s venture with Mitsui & Co., Peabody Energy Corp.
and a Russian-led group were picked to develop Mongolia’s Tavan
Tolgoi coal deposit, Reuters reported, citing an unidentified
government official. The final result is pending approval by
Mongolia’s parliament, Reuters said, citing the person.  BYD jumped 10 percent to HK$27.70. China’s automobile sales
growth may recover in the second half of the year after a
slowdown in the first six months, the official Xinhua News
Agency reported, citing Dong Yang, deputy head of the China
Association of Automobile Manufacturers.  Separately, Charles Munger, vice chairman of Buffett’s
Berkshire Hathaway Inc., said BYD has the ability to recover
from missteps after the company reported an 84 percent plunge in
first-quarter profit.  Rival  Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd. (175)  gained 7.9 percent to
HK$3.28 and Dongfeng Motor Group Co. climbed 6.9 percent to
HK$15.72.  The HSI Volatility Index lost 3.2 percent to 17.94. The
benchmark gauge for Hong Kong stock options indicates traders
expect a swing of 5.1 percent in the Hang Seng Index in the next
30 days.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 