-- 
Lowest Polish Yield to Hungary Since January Reflects Faith in Fiscal Plan

-- B y   P i o t r   S k o l i m o w s k i
-- 
2011-07-05T14:42:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/lowest-polish-yield-to-hungary-since-january-reflects-faith-in-fiscal-plan.html
Poland  is paying the lowest yields
relative to Hungary in almost six months as investors reward the
European Union’s largest eastern economy for financing most of
its 2011 needs and pledging to reduce the deficit.  The yield on Poland’s 10-year bonds dropped 49 basis
points, or 0.49 percentage point, to 5.78 percent last quarter,
the biggest decline since the first quarter of 2010. The rate
for similar-maturity Hungarian securities rose 12 basis points
to 7.31 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
gap between the two reached 157 basis points on June 23, the
widest since Jan. 13 and up from as low as 79 basis points on
April 18. It stood at 153 basis points today.  Speculation that a worsening of  Europe ’s credit crisis
would raise debt costs spurred the Polish government to cover
more than 75 percent of 2011 borrowing needs in the first six
months of the year, amassing more cash than needed to repay
securities coming due this year. The Finance Ministry canceled
sales of Treasury bills in the third quarter and limited
auctions of bonds to one per month from as many as two in the
previous quarter, according to its statement on June 30.  “Certainly in terms of the fiscal news, Poland has
surprised the market on the positive side,” said Ronald Schneider, who helps manage the equivalent of $1.2 billion in
east European and emerging-market bonds at Raiffeisen
Kapitalanlage GmbH in Vienna.  Hungary’s local-currency bonds have slumped since May amid
speculation that Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  may fall behind on
plans to reduce the country’s debt burden, the biggest among the
EU’s eastern members at 77 percent of gross domestic product.  ‘Credibility’  Poland’s bonds due in 10 years or more returned 7.2 percent
in euro terms in the second quarter, the second-best performance
for the Europe and Africa region, behind  Switzerland , according
to indexes compiled by the European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  Poland’s “credibility is to improve from here,” Aurelija Augulyte, an emerging-market analyst at Nordea Bank AB in
Copenhagen, wrote in a report on June 23. The Nordic region’s
largest bank recommended clients buy Polish bonds maturing in
October 2015 and sell the German equivalent.  International investors raised their holdings of zloty-
denominated bonds by 22.9 billion zloty ($8.4 billion) to a
record 147.6 billion zloty in the five months through the end of
May, according to the Finance Ministry’s  website . Foreigners are
the biggest holders of Polish debt, ahead of local pension funds
and banks.  Greek Bailout  Franklin Templeton Investments, which manages more than
$733 billion of assets, favors investments in Poland and  Sweden 
as a refuge from the euro-region’s debt crisis, predicting more
“downside” risks for  Greece  and  Portugal , according to John Beck, the fund’s London-based co-director of global fixed
income.  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  won parliamentary
approval last week for austerity measures required to keep
rescue aid flowing as violent street protests erupted in  Athens .
Finance ministers from the 17-nation euro area approved their
share of a 12 billion-euro ($17.4 billion) aid payment for
Greece on July 2 and pledged to complete work in the coming
weeks on a second package.  Poland, with gross domestic product of $430 billion, is
“well-prepared for any financing disruption” caused by a
deepening credit crisis among western Europe’s most-indebted
countries, ING Groep NV wrote in a report June 28.  Soccer Stadiums  The  Finance Ministry  had a record 51 billion zloty in cash
at the end of June,  Piotr Marczak , the head of the ministry’s
public debt department, wrote in an e-mailed statement last
week. Poland has a total of 47.97 billion zloty of debt maturing
this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The available cash and lower borrowing needs allow us to
reduce the supply of  government securities  by the end of the
year and improve the structure of debt,” Marczak wrote. The
government has met “far more” than 75 percent of its borrowing
needs this year, he said.  Poland’s budget deficit grew last year to the widest since
at least 1995 as rising unemployment lifted social-security
costs and the country ramped up spending on roads and stadiums
before the European soccer championship it will co-host with
Ukraine in 2012.  The government may need to take additional steps to narrow
next year’s budget gap to a planned 2.9 percent of GDP as
economic growth may be weaker than forecast and  tax revenue  may
fall short of estimates, the European Commission said in a
report on June 7. Poland’s economy will expand by 4 percent this
year and next, up from 3.8 percent in 2010, according to
government budget figures.  Rally Peaked  The rally in Polish long-term bonds has probably peaked as
the central banks in developed countries raise  interest rates  in
coming years, according to Peter Bodis, chief investment officer
at Pioneer Pekao Investment Management SA in Warsaw. While
Polish policy makers last month said they would wait to see the
effect of four interest-rate increases this year before taking
any further moves, European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  signaled June 30 that officials may raise rates as early
as this week after a quarter-point increase in April.  “We don’t see much potential” for a further decline in
10-year bond yields, said Bodis at Pioneer, which runs Poland’s
biggest mutual fund with 17.7 billion zloty of assets.  The yield on Poland’s 10-year bond was little changed at
5.76 percent, the lowest since November, at 4:22 p.m. in Warsaw.  Inflows  The extra yield investors demand to hold Polish 10-year
bonds instead of German bunds dropped 16 basis points to 276
basis points last quarter. For  Hungary , which has GDP of $129
billion, the spread has risen 45 basis points to 428.  The zloty gained 1.2 percent in the second quarter against
the euro and 3.5 percent versus the dollar, the third-best
performing emerging-market currency after  Colombia ’s peso and
 Brazil ’s real. Hungary’s forint was little changed, up less than
0.1 percent versus the euro. The zloty slipped 0.1 percent to
3.9454 against the euro today, while the forint weakened 0.4
percent to 264.53 per euro.  Hungary reduced its public debt to 77 percent of GDP
following a cabinet decision to funnel private-pension funds to
the state, Orban told reporters on June 21. The government plans
to use more of the pension portfolios for a second round of debt
cuts of between 2 percentage points and 3.5 percentage points in
the “early fall,” he told TV2 in an interview the same day.  Poland’s budget deficit may total 30 billion zloty this
year, or 10.2 billion zloty less than planned, Deputy Finance
Minister  Dominik Radziwill  was cited as saying in an interview
in Dziennik Gazeta Prawna on June 21.  “The recent improvements in fiscal dynamics combined with
the lighter supply outlook for zloty local bonds” will support
inflows in the third quarter, Barclays Capital strategists
including Piotr Chwiejczak in  London  wrote in a note to
customers on June 29.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Piotr Skolimowski in Warsaw at 
 pskolimowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  