-- 
Pakistan’s Army Extends Offensive Against Taliban Near Afghanistan Border

-- B y   A n w a r   S h a k i r   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-07-04T19:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/pakistani-army-assaults-taliban-in-tribal-district-near-afghanistan-border.html
Pakistan ’s army extended an offensive
against Taliban guerrillas in its borderlands with Afghanistan,
its chief spokesman said.  Troops moved into the mountains of Kurram Agency, a tribal
district that Taliban factions have used as a base, according to
Major General Athar Abbas yesterday. While Abbas declined to
give details, the newspaper Dawn and other Pakistani media cited
residents and officials as saying thousands of troops were
involved, some flown in by helicopter.  Taking control of central areas of Kurram may enable the
army to block the last major escape route for militants based in
North Waziristan, the country’s biggest remaining guerrilla
stronghold where the U.S. has pressed Pakistan to conduct a
ground offensive, said  Ashraf Ali , director of the  FATA Research
Center  in Islamabad, which monitors the conflict in Pakistan’s
 Federally Administered Tribal Areas .  “The government is not prepared to make a broad, overall
offensive into North Waziristan,” as the U.S. is demanding, Ali
said in a phone interview yesterday. “But going into Kurram may
be part of a strategy to isolate the  Tehreek-i-Taliban
Pakistan ,” or TTP, and prepare for a more selective ground
attack into Waziristan, he said.  A successful occupation of Kurram would prevent militants
from fleeing to Afghanistan’s Tora Bora mountains, from where
 Osama bin Laden  escaped an attack by U.S.-backed Afghan forces
in December 2001.  The TTP has been the most aggressive Taliban faction in
attacking the Pakistani government. Afghan Taliban and other
militant groups in the border zone have focused their warfare
against U.S. troops in  Afghanistan .  Families Flee  The Kurram offensive comes days after a prominent Pakistani
Taliban commander, Fazal Saeed Haqqani, broke his forces away
from the main TTP movement, saying he objected to its use of
tactics that have killed thousands of civilians in addition to
Pakistani security personnel.  As the army offensive began, more than 1,000 families fled
central Kurram to escape the fighting, Khalid Ilyas Khan, a
director of disaster management operations for FATA, said by
phone.  General news about Pakistan: {NI PAKISTAN BN} News about Taliban:
{NSE TALIBAN BN}  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Rupert in Islamabad at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net ;
Anwar Shakir in Peshawar, Pakistan at 
 Ashakir1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  