-- 
Palm Oil Gains From Eight-Month Low on Soy Outlook

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-07-04T09:45:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/palm-oil-gains-from-eight-month-low-on-soy-outlook-correct-.html
(Corrects date of previous low in second paragraph.)  Palm oil  rebounded from the lowest
level in eight months on speculation lower soybean acreage in
the U.S., the world’s biggest exporter, will reduce global
vegetable oil supplies.  The September-delivery contract advanced as much as 1.6
percent to 3,084 ringgit ($1,028) per metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange and ended the morning trading session at
3,071 ringgit in Kuala Lumpur. Futures fell 2.6 percent last
week for a fifth weekly loss, the longest streak in almost three
years, to close at the lowest level since Oct. 22.  Soybean futures rose the most in four weeks on July 1 on
speculation that reduced Midwest seeding will trim supplies from
the U.S. Planting dropped to 75.208 million acres, less than
analysts expected and below the 76.609 million estimated in
March, as farmers switched to corn, the U.S. Department of
Agriculture data showed on June 30.  “The USDA national acreage report was actually bullish for
soybeans,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at Phillip Futures Pte,
said by phone from  Singapore . “Investors have a clearer picture
on the report now.”  Soybean futures for November delivery advanced 1.4 percent
to $13.125 a bushel on July 1, the biggest gain since June 2.
U.S. markets are closed today for the Independence Day holiday.  Gains in palm oil today may be capped as the Chicago Board
of Trade is closed, Ker said.  ‘Small Rebound’  “This is just a small rebound” after the sharp fall in
the last five weeks, Chandran Sinnasamy, head of trading at LT
International Futures (M) Sdn., said by phone from Kuala Lumpur.
“The  U.S. dollar  is slightly weaker, crude oil is maintaining,
so people are taking this opportunity to support prices” ahead
of data from the Malaysian Palm Oil Board next week, he said.  The palm oil board will report production, stockpile and
export data for the month of June on July 11.  January-delivery palm oil on the  Dalian Commodity Exchange 
climbed as much as 1.1 percent to 8,884 yuan ($1,375) a ton.
 Soybean oil  for delivery in the same month rose as much as 1.2
percent to 10,066 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  