-- 
Palm Oil at Eight-Month Low as U.S. Soy Supplies Grow

-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 
2011-07-04T09:44:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/palm-oil-at-eight-month-low-as-u-s-soy-supplies-grow-correct-.html
(Corrects date of previous low in second paragraph in 
story first published on July 1.)  Palm oil  slumped to the lowest level
in more than eight months after a U.S. report showed larger-
than-expected soybean inventories, and as a decline in crude  oil
prices  cut the appeal of vegetable oils as biofuels.  The September-delivery contract retreated 1.2 percent to
3,036 ringgit ($1,009) per metric ton on the Malaysia
Derivatives Exchange, the lowest close since Oct. 22. Futures
dropped 9.5 percent in June, the biggest monthly loss since
September 2009. The commodity fell 2.6 percent this week for a
fifth weekly loss, the longest streak in almost three years.  Soybean  stockpiles  as of June 1 were 619 million bushels,
4.6 percent more than forecast and above year-earlier supplies,
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said in a report yesterday.  “U.S. soybean supply expanded from last year despite
strong demand earlier in the year from China,” said
Paramalingam Subramaniam, director of Kuala Lumpur-based
brokerage Pelindung Bestari Sdn. “With the super-bearish USDA
numbers, funds will tend to reinforce a move lower especially if
support levels are taken out.”  Grain Selloff  After the USDA report November-delivery soybeans fell 2.2
percent yesterday on the Chicago Board of Trade, while  soybean
oil  for delivery in December closed 1.5 percent lower. Corn
extended its biggest monthly loss since October 2008 and wheat
tumbled to the lowest level in almost a year after USDA reported
acreage and inventories that topped analyst’s estimates.  “Soybean prices will follow the grains lower as a result
of higher than expected stocks and spill-over bearish
sentiment,” Rabobank International analysts led by Luke Chandler wrote in an e-mailed report. “The stocks report
implies soybean demand during the third quarter fell to the
lowest level since 2003-04 and will result in a bearish response
to soybean prices. It is also likely to cause the USDA to revise
ending stocks for the full 2010/11 marketing year higher by more
than 10 percent in the next report.”  Palm oil production in  Malaysia , the second-biggest grower,
has expanded, causing a buildup in stockpiles. May output grew
13.7 percent to 1.74 million tons from April, the highest level
in 19 months. Inventory climbed 14.8 percent to 1.92 million
tons in May from a month earlier, the highest level since
January last year, according to the nation’s palm oil board.
Stockpiles of the oil are expected to reach 2 million tons soon,
an Oil World report said on June 21.  “Crude is down and upcoming stockpiles in Malaysia are
likely to be high,” said Ivy Ng, an analyst at CIMB Investment
Bank Bhd. “All this will point to near-term weakness.”  Crude oil declined today, trimming the biggest weekly gain
in almost three months, after  China ’s Purchasing Managers’ Index
fell to the lowest since February 2009. A report today may show
a slowdown in U.S. manufacturing. Prices also slid as the U.S.
offered 30.2 million barrels of oil from strategic reserves
under an IEA plan to stabilize prices and OPEC boosted supplies.  January-delivery palm oil on the Dalian Commodity Exchange
lost 1.1 percent to close at 8,788 yuan ($1,359) a ton. Soybean
oil for delivery in the same month shed 1 percent to close at
9,948 yuan a ton.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  