-- 
Pfizer Addiction Pill Weighed by FDA After 72% Added Heart Risk

-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 
2011-07-04T16:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/pfizer-addiction-pill-weighed-by-fda-after-72-added-heart-risk.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s anti-smoking pill
Chantix may receive new warnings from U.S. regulators after a
study released today found the drug increased the risk of
hospitalizations for heart problems by 72 percent.  The report, led by researchers at  Johns Hopkins University ,
analyzed 14 Pfizer-sponsored drug trials with 8,216 patients and
found about one new heart attack or similar disorder for every
400 patients taking Chantix. The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration  is examining the study and may consider new
warnings, Curtis Rosenbraugh, director of the agency’s office of
drug evaluation, said in an interview.  Chantix revenue has declined since the FDA warned in 2009
that the medicine may increase suicides and erratic behavior.
Regulators last month added a warning for patients with a
history of  heart disease , based on a 700-patient study. The new
analysis shows the greatest increased risk may be among patients
with no signs of heart problems, said Sonal Singh, lead author
of today’s study.  “I stopped prescribing Chantix several months ago, as soon
as we found out about this data,” said Singh, a doctor and
professor at  Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine  in
Baltimore. “I’m not saying that nobody should use it, but I
think people should have this information. They should decide
whether the risk is acceptable to them.”  Pfizer Disagrees  Chantix affects dopamine, a chemical in the brain involved
in controlling mood and behavior. Because dopamine triggers a
positive mood response, regulating its levels can remove some of
the pleasure derived from smoking. The drug is the most
effective pill to help smokers quit, and is about as effective
as nicotine-replacement supplements available as patches,
chewing gum, lozenges, nasal sprays and inhalers, Singh said.  “Pfizer disagrees with the interpretation of the data,”
said Gail Cawkwell, vice president of medical affairs at New
York-based Pfizer, in an e-mail. “The health benefits of
quitting smoking are immediate and substantial. Pfizer strongly
believes in and supports Chantix as an important treatment
option.”  Chantix had sales of $755 million last year, down 14
percent from its high of $883 million in 2007, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The increased risk of heart problems while taking Chantix,
if confirmed, doesn’t cancel out the benefits of taking the drug
to quit smoking, J. Taylor Hays, a doctor who specializes in
nicotine dependence at the  Mayo Clinic  in Rochester,  Minnesota ,
wrote in an editorial published with Singh’s study in the
Canadian Medical Association Journal.  Worst Outcome  “The worst outcome of this study would be for health-care
providers to abandon” Chantix, Hays wrote. “The risk for
serious cardiovascular adverse events is low and is greatly
outweighed by the benefits of diminishing the truly
heartbreaking effects of smoking.”  An  FDA staff review  from 2006 shows the agency was aware of
a potential link between Chantix and serious heart
complications. At the time, two researchers were asked to
independently review each reported heart problem to rule out
cases that were incorrectly reported or not related to the drug.
On closer inspection, one reviewer said there was a 16 percent
added risk of heart problems with Chantix, while the second
reviewer found an 8 percent decreased risk, according to the
staff documents.  “We saw a swing going anywhere from favorable to
unfavorable,” said the FDA’s Rosenbraugh. “When you get
results like that it’s hard to draw a definitive conclusion.
It’s not something we would label.  Label Uncertain  “Dr. Singh has added to what we have seen and is helping
to define the picture better,” Rosenbraugh said. “I’m not sure
until we can further evaluate the study whether it’s going to
change the label or not, but I can assure you this is something
we’re very concerned about and are taking very seriously.”  Any risk from the Chantix needs to be evaluated against the
benefits of quitting smoking, he said. The drug is taken for a
short period of time to help people quit, while the significant
health risks of continued smoking continue for a lifetime. For
long-term smokers, more than half will die from complications
related to their habit, according to a study of British doctors
in 2004.  “We don’t want to send the message that people shouldn’t
try to quit smoking,” Rosenbraugh said. “We just want to send
the message that you should be cautious and look for
cardiovascular symptoms should they occur.”  New Analysis  In the new heart study, 52 patients had serious
cardiovascular complications among 4,908 patients taking
Chantix, compared with 27 hospitalizations among 3,308 patients
taking a placebo. The risk of Chantix complications was doubled
for patients with no history of heart disease, Singh said.  The studies included in today’s report ranged from 7 to 52
weeks in duration. It’s not clear whether the added heart risk
persists after treatment ends, Singh said.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s competing drug, Zyban, has been found
to cause irregular heartbeats and increases in  blood pressure  in
some patients, according to the FDA. The 700-patient study cited
by the FDA last month was conducted by Pfizer to assess the risk
of Chantix in patients with a history of heart disease.  That study found an increased risk of heart attack and
chest pains, though the results weren’t statistically
significant. The report prompted the FDA to seek a new analysis
of all available trials using the raw data from the original
research. That study will be completed by Pfizer within months,
not years, the FDA’s Rosenbraugh and Pfizer’s Cawkwell said,
without giving a specific time frame.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tom Randall  in  New York  at 
 trandall6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 