-- 
South African Rhino Killings by Poachers May Exceed 2010 Record, WWF Says

-- B y   N a s r e e n   S e r i a
-- 
2011-07-04T10:41:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/poachers-shot-dead-193-rhinos-in-south-africa-in-first-half-of-this-year.html
South Africa , which has the world’s
largest population of rhinos, lost at least 193 of the animals
to poaching in the first six months of the year, said WWF
International, the conservation group.  At this pace, the number of rhinos killed may exceed the
record 333 killed last year, the Gland, Switzerland-based group
said in an e-mailed statement, citing figures from South Africa
National Parks.  South Africa has made 123 arrests, with six convictions,
for poaching this year, adding to last year’s 165 arrests and
four convictions, WWF said. Swaziland, which borders South
Africa, lost its first rhino to poaching in almost 20 years in
June, raising concern that the crime may be spreading. Rhinos
are targeted for their horns, which are smuggled out of South
Africa and used in traditional medicine as an aphrodisiac in
East Asia and as dagger handles in Yemen and Oman.  “We cannot allow poaching to proliferate across rhino
range countries,” Joseph Okori, coordinator of WWF’s African
Rhino Program, said in the statement. “Swift prosecutions of
wildlife crimes and strict sentences for perpetrators will serve
as a deterrent to potential criminals. Poachers should be shown
no leniency.”  South Africa has a population of about 19,400 white rhinos
and 1,678 black rhinos, according to the parks department. Of
those 12,000 white rhinos live in the  Kruger National Park ,
which has a 300 kilometer (186-mile) border with  Mozambique ,
making it easy for poachers to escape.  Wide Lips  White rhinos may take their name from a mispronunciation of
the Dutch word for wide, as a description of their lip. They
weigh as much as 2.7 metric tons. Black rhinos weigh up to 1.35
tons. There are also three Asian species - Javan, Indian and
Sumatran.  Rhino poaching is an organized crime, with hunters
sometimes using helicopters and automatic weapons, WWF said.
Kruger, which was established 113 years ago and spans about 2
million hectares (4.94 million acres), has been the hardest hit
by poaching, losing 126 rhinos this year, adding to the 146
killed last year, WWF said.  In 2009 the  United Nations ’ Convention on International
Trade in Endangered Species estimated that globally rhino
poaching was at a 15-year high.  The rise in poaching in South Africa is not the first time
authorities have had to react to combat syndicates targeting the
animals.  In the 1980s and early 1990s poachers targeted black rhinos
in  Zimbabwe ’s Zambezi Valley with automatic rifles, prompting
the government to order a ‘shoot-to-kill’ policy against
poachers and to move some wild rhinos to private land where they
were trailed around the clock by guards.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nasreen Seria in Johannesburg at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 