-- 
PRI Claims Win in Mexico State, Buoying Bid for Presidency

-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-04T03:26:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/pri-claims-win-in-mexico-state-buoying-bid-for-presidency-1-.html
Mexico ’s once-dominant  Institutional
Revolutionary Party  claimed victory in gubernatorial elections
in the state of Mexico that may buoy the party’s comeback ahead
of next year’s presidential vote.  Eruviel Avila, of the party known as the PRI, won the vote
in the country’s most populous state by a sweeping margin, party
chief Humberto Moreira said in Toluca, the capital of the state
of Mexico. Avila campaigned on pledges to improve public
education and increase training for the police force.  The state of Mexico election marks the biggest referendum
before the presidential elections, when the PRI will try to
break 12 years of rule by President Felipe Calderon’s  National
Action Party , or PAN. The state’s current PRI Governor Enrique Pena Nieto, who wasn’t eligible for re-election, is the favorite
in polls to be Mexico’s next president and his popularity
boosted his would-be successor.  “The strength of this victory compels me to work harder,”
Avila told supporters in Toluca.  The PRI had 61.9 percent of the vote in the state of
Mexico, according to preliminary electoral institute results,
with 68 percent of ballots counted.  The party, which held the presidency and dominated the
nation’s politics for 71 years until 2000, also retained
governorships in the northern state of Coahuila and western
Nayarit, the party head Moreira said.  Alejandro Encinas from the Revolutionary Democratic Party,
or PRD, was supported by 21.5 percent of voters while 12.7
percent favored PAN candidate Luis Felipe Bravo, according to
the preliminary results.  Avila, 42, is a lawyer and former mayor of Ecatepec, the
state’s most populous municipality. Asked in a post-victory
interview if the victory really belonged to his predecessor Pena
Nieto, he said the victory belonged “to the people.”  “I hope he comes through with what he promised,” said
Maria Elena Estrada, a 49-year-old teacher in Toluca. “They
always start off with the hugs, the kisses and then they forget
about the people.”  The official results will be announced at a later date by
the electoral institute.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Toluca at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  