-- 
PRI Wins Elections in Mexico State, Buoying Presidential Bid

-- B y   A d r i a n a   L o p e z   C a r a v e o   a n d   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 
2011-07-05T01:19:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/pri-claims-victory-in-mexico-state-buoying-2012-presidency-bid.html
Mexico’s once-dominant  Institutional
Revolutionary Party , known as the PRI, won yesterday’s
gubernatorial election in the state of Mexico, a victory that
may buoy a comeback ahead of next year’s presidential vote.  PRI candidate Eruviel Avila had 63 percent of the votes
with more than 99 percent of ballots counted at 8:29 p.m. New
York time, according to  electoral institute results .  Alejandro Encinas from the Revolutionary Democratic Party,
or PRD, won 21 percent of the vote and Luis Felipe Bravo of
President Felipe Calderon’s  National Action Party , or PAN, took
12 percent, according to the results. Only 43 percent of
registered voters took part in the elections, data compiled by
the regional authority show.  The state of  Mexico  election marked the biggest referendum
before the 2012 presidential vote, when the PRI will try to
break 12 years of PAN rule. The state’s current PRI Governor
Enrique Pena Nieto, who wasn’t eligible for re-election, is the
favorite in polls to be Mexico’s next president.  “Calderon is the big loser in this whole election,” said
Alejandro Schtulmann, research director of Emerging Markets
Political Risk Analysis in Mexico City, in an interview before
the vote. “He had years to prepare the ideal candidate in
Mexico state and he couldn’t do it. The same thing could happen
in 2012.”  71 Years  The PRI, which held the presidency and dominated the
nation’s politics for 71 years until 2000, also appeared to
retain governorships in the northern state of Coahuila and
western Nayarit.  With more than 98 percent of votes tallied in the mining
and industrial state of Coahuila, the PRI candidate had captured
57 percent, followed by the  PAN  candidate with 35 percent. The
PRD contestant had less than 2 percent, according to the  state
electoral institute .  In Nayarit, a state known for beaches and fishing, the PRI
lead with 46 percent, against 38 percent for the PAN and 11
percent for the PRD, results from the  electoral authority showed 
after 91 percent of the ballots were counted.  Avila, 42, is a lawyer and former mayor of Ecatepec, the
state of Mexico’s most populous municipality.  “The strength of this victory compels me to work harder,”
Avila, who campaigned on pledges to improve public education and
increase training for the police force, told supporters in
Toluca.  Hugs and Kisses  “I hope he comes through with what he promised,” said
Maria Elena Estrada, a 49-year-old teacher in Toluca. “They
always start off with the hugs, the kisses and then they forget
about the people.”  Pena Nieto had 34 percent of support ahead of next year’s
presidential vote, according to a May poll of 3,000 voters by
pollster Consulta Mitofsky.  Next was  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador , who staged protests
that shut down one of the capital’s main avenues after losing
the 2006 elections to Calderon by less than a percentage point.
Lopez Obrador had 12 percent support, according to the poll,
which has a margin of error of 3.1 percentage points.  Encinas defended his party’s decision to take on the PRI
alone instead of forming an alliance with the PAN. A coalition
of the PRD and PAN unseated the PRI in 2010 gubernatorial
elections in the southern state of Oaxaca, a state where the PRI
has traditionally dominated.  ‘Journey of No Return’  “Running together would have divided the left and would
have started a journey of no return for 2012,” he said in an
interview from Toluca on Milenio TV while votes were still being
counted. “This result will enable us to be in a real race in
the 2012 elections.”  The PRI has attacked the PAN governments of Calderon and
his predecessor, Vicente Fox, for their handling of the economy.  Mexico’s economy has expanded an average of 2.1 percent per
year from 2000 to 2010, compared with 3.7 percent growth in
 Brazil  over the same period. Gross domestic product grew 5.4
percent in 2010, the most since 2000, after contracting 6.1
percent in 2009, the most since 1995.  The peso has risen 6.5 percent this year, the third-best
performance against the dollar among the six major Latin
American currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Adriana Lopez Caraveo in Toluca at 
 adrianalopez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  