-- 
Radioactive Cesium Is Found in Tokyo Tap Water for First Time Since April

-- B y   P a v e l   A l p e y e v
-- 
2011-07-04T06:58:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/radioactive-cesium-is-found-in-tokyo-water.html
Radioactive cesium-137 was found in
 Tokyo ’s tap water for the first time since April as Japan
grapples with the worst nuclear disaster in 25 years. The level
was below the safety limit set by the government.  Cesium-137 registered at 0.14 becquerel per kilogram in
Shinjuku ward on July 2 and none was discovered yesterday,
compared with 0.21 becquerel on April 22, according to the  Tokyo
Metropolitan Institute of Public Health . No cesium-134 or
iodine-131 was detected, the agency said on its website.  “This is unlikely to be the result of new radioactive
materials being introduced” into the water supply, Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear engineering professor at  Kyoto University ,
said today by telephone. That’s “because no other elements were
detected, especially the more sensitive iodine,” he said.  Japan  is battling radiation leaks into the air, soil and
water after an earthquake and tsunami on March 11 knocked out
cooling systems at Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
nuclear station, resulting in the meltdown of three of the six
reactors at the plant.  Products including spinach, mushrooms, bamboo shoots, tea,
milk, plums and fish have been found to be contaminated with
cesium and iodine as far as 360 kilometers (224 miles) from the
station. Prolonged exposure to radiation in the air, ground and
food can cause leukemia and other cancers, according to the
London-based  World Nuclear Association .  ‘Extremely Low’  “The reading is extremely low, on the very threshold of
detection,” Unesaki said.  The Nuclear Safety Commission of Japan  sets a safety limit
of 200 becquerel per kilogram for cesium-134 and cesium-137. The
limit for iodine-131 consumption is 300 becquerel per kilogram.  For vegetables, Japan has a limit at 2,000 becquerel of
iodine per kilogram and 500 becquerel of cesium a kilogram.  Tokyo’s metropolitan government in March warned residents
to avoid giving tap water to infants after radioactive iodine
was found in the city’s supply at levels twice the allowable
limit for infants.  The warning prompted bulk buying of bottled water at
supermarkets and convenience stores even as the government said
the health risks were minimal. Bottled water was available for
sale in online stores listed on Amazon.com Inc. and  Rakuten Inc. (4755) 
as of 3 p.m. in Tokyo.  Officials in the capital handed out about 240,000 bottles
of water in March after iodine-131 reached 210 becquerel per
kilogram on March 22 at the Kanamachi purification plant in
Tokyo’s Katsushika ward. The recommended limit for infants is
100 becquerel a kilogram. The reading dropped to within safe
levels the next day.  Cesium-137 has a half-life of about 30 years, compared with
two years for cesium-134, according to the  National Institute of
Standards and Technology . Iodine-131 takes eight days for half
of the substance to decay.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Pavel Alpeyev in Tokyo at 
 palpeyev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  