-- 
Treasury Wine Estates Shares Climb as China’s Bright Foods Considers Bid

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T07:08:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/treasury-wine-shares-rise-by-record-in-sydney-as-bright-food-considers-bid.html
Treasury Wine Estates Ltd. rose by a
record in Sydney trading as two people familiar with the matter
said Bright Food Group Co. is considering making an offer for
the world’s second-largest winemaker.  The vintner surged 8.9 percent, the largest gain since
Treasury shares began trading May 11. Closely held  Bright Food ,
 Shanghai ’s biggest food and dairy producer, has had internal
talks about a bid for the Melbourne-based maker of Penfolds
Grange, said the people, who asked not to be identified because
the discussions are private.  Bright Food’s potential interest in Treasury follows a
failed offer for 50 percent of French yogurt maker Yoplait SAS
and being outbid by Wilmar International Ltd. for CSR Ltd.’s
sugar unit.  Foster’s Group Ltd. (FGL) , which spun off Treasury in May,
last month rejected a A$9.5 billion ($10.2 billion) takeover
offer for its brewing business from SABMiller Plc as too low.  “After a few failed attempts in recent months,
understanding of the regulatory and business environment as well
as management skill is the key for them to succeed this time,”
said Wu Zhengwu, an analyst at AJ Securities Co. in Shanghai.
“It is a right approach for Bright Food to make overseas
acquisitions if it aims to become a global food company.”  Shares Gain  Treasury rose 30 cents to A$3.67 at the 4:10 p.m. close of
Sydney trading, giving it a market value of A$2.4 billion.  The company, with brands including Lindemans and Beringer,
noted the report of talks at Bright Food and said it has no
other unannounced information to explain the share-price gains,
according to a stock exchange filing.  Rebecca Smith, a spokeswoman for Treasury, declined to
comment beyond the statement. Bright Food is considering
Australian wine assets for acquisition, Pan Jianjun, a Shanghai-
based spokesman, said by phone July 1.  Treasury is  Australia ’s largest winemaker and ranks behind
only  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)  in global wine sales. Foster’s
spun it off after more than A$2.5 billion of writedowns
triggered by a glut of grapes and by gains in the Australian
dollar that slashed earnings.  Foster’s rejected an offer worth as much as A$2.7 billion
from an unidentified buyout firm for the wine unit in September,
saying it “significantly” undervalued the business.  “Any potential buyer has to go in for the long term, as in
five years and beyond,” said  Theo Maas , who helps manage A$5.4
at Arnhem Investment Management in Sydney. “The two big macro
drivers for Treasury, in the currency and wine market itself,
haven’t improved.”  Yoplait Bid  Bright Food may raise as much as 6 billion yuan ($928
million) this year selling bonds and listing a unit to fund
acquisitions and boost production capacity, Chairman Wang Zongnan said in an interview on April 1.  Wilmar agreed to pay A$1.75 billion in cash and assumed
debt for CSR’s sugar unit 12 months ago, beating a conditional
offer from Bright that may have been worth as much.  General Mills Inc., the maker of Cheerios cereal, agreed in
May to buy a controlling stake in Yoplait for about 810 million
euros ($1.18 billion), beating out Bright.  Bright inquired last year about acquiring GNC Holdings
Inc., the retailer of vitamins and supplements, before the
Pittsburgh-based chain raised $360 million in an initial public
offering.  --Robert Fenner,  Michael Wei  and Brett Foley. Editors:  Dave
McCombs ,  Terje Langeland .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at +61-3-9228-8705 or
 rfenner@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  