-- 
Recession Bet Sends Cyclicals to 2009 Low, Luring BlackRock

-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-07-05T20:12:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/recession-trade-sends-cyclicals-to-two-year-low-luring-blackrock-to-dupont.html
The biggest rally in a year for
companies most tied to economic growth is generating gains for
BlackRock Inc. and Federated Investors Inc., and the advance may
continue after valuations slipped to a two-year low.  The price-earnings ratio for the Morgan Stanley Cyclical
Index tracking manufacturers, commodity producers and
transportation companies has been 6.7 percent below the multiple
for the bank’s consumer index, a measure of drugmakers and food
companies, on average since April 29. The discount is the widest
since May 2009, two months after the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
completed a 57 percent drop, its worst decline in almost eight
decades, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Concern the economy is slowing created a buying opportunity
in DuPont Co. and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which climbed at least 4.8
percent last week, according to  Kevin Rendino , a money manager
at New York-based BlackRock, which oversees $3.65 trillion.
Companies in the cyclical index may boost earnings more than 23
percent in 2011 and 2012, completing the biggest three-year
advance on record, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  “The group has rallied because it became very obvious to
some people that we swung too far in the world-is-going-to-end
campaign,” Rendino said. “The idea is whether or not the
economy is going to grow in the second half of the year. The
answer for that question is yes.”  Earnings Growth  Earnings for the 30 companies in the cyclical gauge, which
includes Wilmington, Delaware-based DuPont and  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  in
 Memphis ,  Tennessee , will climb 30 percent this year and 23
percent in 2012, according to analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Should next year’s forecast come true, profits for
the companies will have advanced sevenfold since 2009, compared
with a 134 percent gain in the consumer index.  Based on analyst estimates for 2012, stocks in the measure
are trading for 11.6 times earnings, compared with the average
since 1993 of 17.5 times reported profits. Morgan Stanley’s
consumer gauge trades for 12.5 times forecast income, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The cyclical index has doubled
since May 2009, the last time the valuation spread was this
wide, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  U.S. stocks rallied last week after Greek lawmakers passed
a package of austerity measures needed to avoid default and
earnings from  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and  Monsanto Co. (MON)  exceeded analyst
estimates. The S&P 500 rose 5.6 percent to 1,339.67, its second
gain in nine weeks, while Morgan Stanley’s cyclical index
advanced 6.6 percent. The index lost 0.1 percent to 1,337.88 at
4 p.m. in New York today.  Second Half  “We’re in that camp that in the second half the economy
will recover,” said James Dunigan, chief investment officer in
Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management, which oversees $110
billion. His firm’s holdings include  Eaton Corp. (ETN) , a maker of
truck transmission systems in  Cleveland , and Milwaukee-based
mining equipment producer  Joy Global Inc. (JOYG)  Cyclical companies
“are cheap based upon accelerating revenue and earnings,” he
said.  Energy producers and industrials will only prove
inexpensive should the economic expansion accelerate, said
Howard Ward, a  money manager  at Mario Gabelli’s Gamco Investors
Inc. Those companies will trail the market should  Greece ’s debt
crisis lead to a weakening of global growth.  ‘Extend and Pretend’  “We have to assume the Greek debt issue gets another round
of ‘extend and pretend’ and  Washington  successfully manages our
own budding fiscal crisis,” said Ward, who helps oversee $35
billion in Rye, New York. “Maybe that is too strong an
assumption, but I pray not. If the economic data does not
improve, then the cyclicals will become even cheaper.”  Investors pulled $16.6 billion from U.S. stock mutual funds
in the three weeks ended June 22, the most in a year, and have
withdrawn money for nine straight weeks, according to data from
the Washington-based  Investment Company Institute .  Shares tied to economic growth trailed defensive stocks
during the financial crisis. From the  S&P 500 ’s record high on
Oct. 9, 2007, to the 12-year low reached on March 9, 2009,
household product makers fell 31 percent, health-care companies
lost 40 percent and utilities slid 46 percent. Those compare
with declines of 83 percent for financial firms, 65 percent for
industrials and 60 percent for mining and chemical companies,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Too Slow  Returns over the last nine weeks show investors were
speculating economic growth would be too slow to boost profits
among cyclical stocks. Since the index reached its high for the
year on April 29, utilities and health-care companies posted the
biggest gains, rising at least 2.1 percent. Energy producers,
financial companies and computer makers are down more than 2.7
percent, the data show.  Economists predict the  U.S. economy  will gain momentum in
the second half after slowing to a 1.9 percent annual rate in
the first three months of this year from 3.1 percent in the
fourth quarter. Gross domestic product will expand 3.2 percent
in each of the last two quarters of this year, according to the
median estimate of more than 65 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg.  “We expect the economy to reaccelerate and therefore we
want to be positively exposed,” said Gary Flam, a  fund manager 
for Bel Air Investment Advisors LLC in  Los Angeles , which
oversees $6.5 billion. “Cyclicals are the way to do that.
They’re bargains now.”  FedEx Earnings  Companies such as FedEx are optimistic about earnings. The
operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline predicted on June
22 that full-year profit may exceed analysts’ estimates as
shipping demand climbs. The stock trades for 18.9 times reported
earnings, compared with the average of 20.3 since 1996, when
Bloomberg records for the stock’s valuation begin.  FedEx will earn $6.64 a share for the year ending in May,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Based on that estimate, the
shares trade at 14.5 times earnings.  DuPont, a chemical maker, trades at 15.2 times reported
earnings, 21 percent below its average multiple since 1980,
Bloomberg data show.  Bel Air’s Flam said he anticipates economically sensitive
stocks to regain leadership. He favors industrial and energy
shares over companies reliant on spending by individuals.  While data last month showed a weakening housing market and
consumer sentiment, the slowdown is likely to be temporary, said
 Philip Orlando , chief equity market strategist at Federated
Investors, which oversees $354.9 billion.  “The market has largely priced in the concern about a soft
patch,” Orlando said from his office in  New York . “As the
economy shows signs of a pick-up in the second half, cyclicals
should rebound.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at 
 lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net  