-- 
Rembrandt Portrays Christ as Common Man in Louvre Show: Review

-- B y   J o r g   v o n   U t h m a n n
-- 
2011-07-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/rembrandt-portrays-christ-as-common-man-in-louvre-show-jorg-von-uthmann.html
Did Jesus sport a beard? Painters
have held different opinions on that subject.  Following Roman custom, early Christian art in Western
Europe favored a clean-shaven Savior while Byzantium portrayed
him with a beard. Only in the 12th century did the bearded
Christ become universal.  Rembrandt, too, painted him with facial hair. Unlike his
predecessors, though, he presented him as a contemporary human
being, not an idealized hero.  For the first time since the Dutch master’s death in 1669,
the  Louvre  has brought together the seven portraits of Jesus
attributed to him. (Only two are signed, which could mean that
some are studio works.)  It’s generally assumed, though by no means certain, that
the sitter was a young Jew from Rembrandt’s neighborhood. As
evidence, art historians cite the inventory taken after the
painter’s bankruptcy, in 1656, when his house and effects were
sold at auction: One of the items was listed as “Head of Christ
From Life.”  Much has been made of Rembrandt’s close relationship with
Amsterdam’s Jewish community, mostly immigrants from  Portugal .
Four years ago, an exhibition at the city’s Jewish Historical
Museum exploded that myth. No more than three of his male
portraits are pictures of Jews.  Hazelnut Hair  What the seven portraits do have in common is that they
seem to be inspired by the description of Christ in the so-
called Lentulus Letter, allegedly written by a predecessor of
Pontius Pilate. That is, in fact, a devotional tract from the
late Middle Ages when the image of the bearded Christ also had
caught on in the West.  “His hair is the color of a ripe hazelnut,” the letter
says, “parted on top and falling straight to the ears yet
curling further below.” And: “His beard is large and full but
not long and parted in the middle. His glance shows simplicity
adorned with maturity, his eyes are clear and commanding, never
apt to laugh but sooner inclined to cry.”  Around the portraits, the museum has grouped some 80
related works -- paintings, drawings, prints -- by Rembrandt and
other artists.  Among the highlights are Rembrandt’s two versions of
“Christ at Emmaus.” The early version, from 1628, is one of
his most daring paintings: The main figure is seen only as a
silhouette while the light falls on his dinner companion who
raises his hand in astonishment.  Straw Hat  The later version from 1648, freshly restored, is less
sensational yet has a tenderness about it that’s absent from the
earlier work. (A third version, from Copenhagen, is now
considered to be a studio work.)  The most charming canvas in the show is on loan from
 Buckingham Palace . It’s the scene in which Christ appears, after
his resurrection, to Mary Magdalene who, at first, doesn’t
recognize him, mistaking him for a gardener.  Rembrandt sees the scene through Mary Magdalene’s eyes:
Jesus is wearing a splendid straw hat with a wide brim and holds
a spade in his hand.  “Rembrandt and the Face of Christ,” supported by Dai
Nippon Printing Co., is at the Louvre through July 18. The show
will travel to the  Philadelphia Museum of Art  (Aug. 3-Oct. 30)
and the  Detroit Institute of Arts  (Nov. 20-Feb. 12, 2012).  Information:  http://www.louvre.fr .  (Jorg von Uthmann is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Jorg von Uthmann in Paris at  uthmann@wanadoo.fr .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 