-- 
Rice May Rally 56% as Pro-Thaksin Party Sweeps to Power in Thai Elections

-- B y   S u p u n n a b u l   S u w a n n a k i j
-- 
2011-07-04T10:57:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/rice-may-rally-56-as-pro-thaksin-party-sweeps-to-power-in-thai-elections.html
Rice prices in Thailand, the biggest
exporter, may rally 56 percent by yearend as the party that won
parliamentary elections implements a policy to buy the crop from
farmers above current rates, according to a survey.  The export price may climb to $810 per metric ton by Dec.
31, according to a median forecast of six millers, exporters and
traders today and yesterday, who commented after Pheu Thai won a
majority in yesterday’s contest.  “We will definitely reintroduce the rice-buying scheme,”
Yingluck Shinawatra, who will become Thailand’s first female
prime minister, said in Bangkok, where she announced a 299-seat
coalition in Thailand’s 500-seat parliament.  Costlier rice from Thailand, which accounts for about 30
percent of worldwide shipments, may increase global food costs
while making supplies from rival Vietnam more competitive. A
Bloomberg survey last month, conducted during the campaign,
suggested a gain to $750 per ton if Pheu Thai were to win.  “It isn’t only Thai prices that will go up, the rest of
the world will have to follow,” Mamadou Ciss, chief executive
officer of Hermes Investments Pte, said from Geneva. The price
may jump $100 within two months and peak at $700, said Ciss, who
correctly predicted in 2006 that prices would double.  Thai export prices are a benchmark for the industry. The
price of the 100 percent grade-B variety, which is set weekly,
was at $519 per ton on June 29, and has risen as much as 7.3
percent since outgoing Prime Minister Abhisit Vejjajiva called
the election. Abhisit’s Democrat Party won 160 seats in the 500-
member parliament while Pheu Thai took 264, with 98 percent of
the vote counted.  Food Prices  Global food costs, as gauged by the Food & Agriculture
Organization, reached an all-time high in February as wheat,
corn, and soybeans rallied. Since then, corn futures in Chicago
have slumped 18 percent, while wheat has tumbled 25 percent.  “Export prices will probably rise 10 percent in a month,”
Wichai Srinawakul, vice president of the Thai Rice Mills
Association, said from Nakhon Ratchasima province. “When its
price-pledging scheme is implemented, it will boost the price
further, probably to $830 per ton by the end of this year.”  Pheu Thai is a successor to parties loyal to ex-premier
Thaksin Shinawatra that won the past four elections. Yingluck,
Thaksin’s sister, plans to buy unmilled rice from farmers for a
guaranteed price of 15,000 baht ($488) per ton, 63 percent
higher than the current level. That would raise costs for
exporters and boost shipment prices, according to the
respondents of both the surveys.  Global Unrest  In 2008, when Thaksin’s allies were last in power, the
government had a similar rice-buying policy and purchased 5.4
million tons from about 700,000 farmers, according to the
Internal Trade Department. Local prices rose to a record 17,000
baht per ton in April that year and export rates hit an all-time
high of $1,038 per ton the next month after India, China and
Vietnam curbed shipments, spurring unrest from Haiti to Egypt.  “Pheu Thai will urgently implement the rice-pledging and
farmer-credit policy,” Pichai Naripthaphan, a Pheu Thai member
and former deputy finance minister, said by phone today. We’ll
also discuss a rice cartel with other producers, Pichai said.  Thailand is on pace to export 10 million tons of rice this
year, compared with global shipments of 31 million tons,
according to the   U.S. Department of Agriculture.  The country
shipped 6.3 million tons from the beginning of the year to June
28, according to the Thai Rice Exporters Association.  Vietnam May Benefit  Abhisit ended Thaksin’s rice-buying program after he took
power in 2008, and adopted a system under which the government
paid farmers the difference between the market price and the
guaranteed level of 11,000 baht per ton. During the campaign,
Abhisit pledged to increase the guaranteed price to 12,000 baht
if his party won.  Thai rice exports may decline and the country could lose
market share to rival Vietnam, Korbsook Iamsuri, president of
Thai Rice Exporters Association, said by phone.  “Thai exporters may feel the squeeze between domestic and
internationally acceptable prices, especially for those
exporters that had committed in long-term contracts,” Anthony
Lam, vice chairman at Hong Kong-based trader Golden Resources
Development International Ltd., which annually trades about $150
million of rice, said by e-mail. “The market had already taken
this into consideration, which some millers are already
squeezing up the price by hoarding the rice.”  Some exporters have stopped taking overseas orders because
millers are holding onto supplies until they find out how the
new government will implement the plan, Chookiat Ophaswongse,
honorary president of Thai Rice Exporters Association, said
today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Supunnabul Suwannakij in Bangkok at 
 ssuwannakij@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jim Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  