-- 
Trichet May Save Face With S&P, Fitch Greece Moves: Euro Credit

-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-07-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/trichet-may-save-face-with-s-p-fitch-greece-moves-euro-credit.html
Standard & Poor’s and  Fitch Ratings 
may enable European Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
to support a private investor rollover of Greek debt by saying a
default rating would be partial and temporary.  Trichet put Greece’s fate in the hands of ratings companies
when bank officials began saying in May the ECB, which has lent
98 billion euros ($142 billion) to Greek banks, would refuse to
accept the nation’s bonds as collateral if any “burden
sharing” by private investors produced a default rating.
Growing support for a rollover by investors helped push the
yield on Greece’s 2-year bond down 327 basis points in a week to
26.11 percent.  Trichet and European political leaders have been at odds
over creditors’ role in a new Greek rescue after last year’s 110
billion-euro bailout failed to stop the spread of the region’s
debt crisis.  Germany  backed down two weeks ago from its plan to
extend maturities on existing Greek bonds. Now, it may be the
ECB’s turn to yield to rating-companies’ threats that a rollover
would trigger default, or risk the collapse of Greek banks and
spreading contagion.  “The ECB cannot remove liquidity from the big Greek
banks,” said Dimitris Drakopoulos, an economist at Nomura.
“This discussion is a waste of time. The ECB is going to back
down in the end -- what can they do?” he added.  French Plan  Under a French-designed plan being used as a basis for
talks with private investors, creditors would voluntarily agree
to roll over 70 percent of bonds maturing by mid 2014 into new
30-year Greek securities backed by AAA-rated collateral. Under a
second option, banks and insurers could roll over into new five-
year bonds with no guarantee.
‘     S&P roiled markets yesterday, erasing the euro’s early
gains, when it said the French plan would likely trigger a
default rating, repeating assertions made by Fitch on June 15
about general debt rollovers.  The companies did leave Trichet with a way out, saying
 Greece  may have to endure this pariah status only until the
rollover was carried out. Fitch also said that despite the
default issuer rating, its rating on Greek bonds themselves
would stay above default.  Trichet’s dilemma is that he must either allow the ECB to
accept the rollover and keep funding Greek banks, or risk
scuttling a new aid plan that Greece needs to avoid default.  Banks Vulnerable  “We doubt that the ECB would cease to accept Greek
 government bonds  as collateral, if any default or selective
default rating would come on the back of a broadly agreed upon
plan,” said  Philip Gisdakis , the Munich-based head of credit
strategy at UniCredit SpA.  “A collapse of the Greek banking system, which would be
inevitable if the ECB would no longer accept Greek bonds as
collateral, would very likely trigger a bank run that could
force Greece out of the  euro zone  and could, in turn, trigger a
bank run in other periphery countries,” Gisdakis said.  The French plan is contingent on “informal clearance from
rating agencies” that it won’t trigger a “downgrade to default
or similar status,” according to a copy obtained by Bloomberg.  The rating companies have signaled the plan would trigger
because it is being done to avoid default, so couldn’t be
considered voluntary, and because investors would be worse off
than by holding the new securities. Greece’s 30-year bonds
currently yield 11.1 percent, while the new debt would have a
coupon of between 5.5 percent and 8 percent.  ‘Caving In’  “The definition of a default is a distressed exchange or a
renegotiation of terms” which is exactly what’s being proposed,
said Sylvain Raynes, a principal at R&R Consulting in  New York .
“If they do not downgrade them, they are caving in.”  Still, both companies said the default rating would be
short lived as Greece would be able to make its bond payments
after the rollover was implemented, staving off a default.  “Once either option is implemented, we would assign a new
issuer credit rating to Greece after a short time reflecting our
forward-looking view of Greece’s sovereign credit risk,” S&P
said in a July 4 statement.  Fitch Ratings said June 15 that it would probably keep
ratings of Greek government bonds above default level, while
lowering Greece’s issuer rating to “restricted default” under
rollover plans without a specific reference to the French plan.  Greece is currently rated CCC by S&P, Caa1 by Moody’s and
CCC by Fitch. All agencies have a negative outlook.  Uruguay Precedent  Uruguay’s lightning default in 2003 may be a precedent. The
South American country struggled to finance its debt after
 Argentina ’s default in late 2001, and in 2003 convinced
investors to swap $4.9 billion of Uruguayan bonds into new
securities with longer maturities.  S&P cut Uruguay to selective default from CC on May 16,
2003, the day of the swap. It lifted the rating to B- on June 2,
2003. Fitch cut Uruguay to DDD the same day as S&P and then on
May 30, 2003, rated the new bonds at B-.  The ECB’s rulebook leaves the bank room to accept the
defaulted bonds, saying only that rejecting them “may be
warranted.” Trichet has already shown a willingness to skirt
the collateral rules when he suspended minimum rating
requirements on to give Greece and Ireland more breathing room.  His tough line may have helped him shoot down German
Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s proposal for investors to
swap their bonds for longer-maturity debt, calls to forgive part
of Greece’s debt or even proposals for Greece to drop out of the
euro zone.  Backing Down  “The ECB is not keen on the private sector participation
at all,” said Danske Bank economist Frank Oeland Hansen. “But
we are so far down the road with banks in Germany and  France 
agreeing to it that we will have some form of private sector
participation. It seems one or the other will have to back down
a bit and I think it will be the ECB,” he said.  Trichet’s putting the credit rating companies at the center
of the debate has added to the strain between the companies and
EU leaders, who have been angered by the downgrades that they
say have fueled the region’s debt crisis.  Following what they called ill-timed downgrades of Greece
and  Spain , European officials have questioned the rating
companies’ credibility after maintaining AAA ratings on the
subprime mortgage products at the center of the U.S. financial
meltdown. Last year EU officials for a European ratings company
overseen by the ECB to break what German Finance Minister
Schaeuble last week called an “oligopoly.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net .
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at   acullen8@bloomberg.net  