-- 
Romania’s Credit Rating Raised to Investment-Grade by Fitch on Budget Gap

-- B y   I r i n a   S a v u   a n d   A n d r a   T i m u
-- 
2011-07-04T16:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/romania-s-credit-rating-raised-to-investment-grade-by-fitch-on-budget-gap.html
Romania  had its  credit rating  raised
to investment grade by  Fitch Ratings  for the first time in
almost three years after the government sought to cut the budget
deficit and the economy exited a two-year recession.  The country’s sovereign rating was raised one step to BBB-,
the lowest investment grade, with a stable outlook, Fitch said
today in a statement from  London . Moody’s Investors Service also
gives Romania comparable Baa3, while  Standard & Poor’s  rates the
country’s debt BB+, its highest speculative grade.  “The upgrade reflects Romania’s progress in recovering from
the effects of the financial crisis,” including a return to
economic growth, narrowing the current-account deficit and
reducing the budget deficit, said  Ed Parker , a director in
Fitch’s emerging-market sovereign group. “There’s been a
material easing in Romania’s downside risks.”  Romania’s gross domestic product rose 1.7 percent in the
first quarter from a year earlier, ending a two-year
contraction, as demand for exports increased. The country, which
has received two international bailouts since 2009, plans to
trim its budget deficit to less than 3 percent of GDP in 2012
from 6.5 percent in 2010 and may borrow on global markets later
this year.  The leu rose 1.1 percent to 4.1970 per euro in Bucharest
today, the best performer among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. Romania’s benchmark BET stock index rose
0.8 percent to 5532.18, as utilities Transgaz SA and
 Transelectrica SA (TEL)  advanced.  Sentiment Boost  “It will help improve sentiment toward Romania, which has
underperformed the countries in the region,” said  Gyula Toth , an
emerging-market strategist at Unicredit SpA in Vienna. “I think
that after this decision, Romania will catch up, the leu will
appreciate and financing costs will drop.”  Fitch’s decision comes after Standard & Poor’s maintained
Hungary’s credit grade at the lowest investment level on March
24. S&P raised Serbia’s sovereign rating for the first time in
five years that month, while Fitch upgraded Latvia to investment
grade from junk status.  The move is an “acknowledgment of the country’s improved
fundamentals,” central bank Deputy Governor Cristian Popa said
in a phone interview. While there are reasons for the leu to
strengthen, the currency may suffer if the Greek debt crisis
worsens, he added.  Moderate Leu Appreciation  “That’s why I don’t see a clear trend for the leu for the
moment,” Popa said. “In the medium to long term, the trend is
clearly toward appreciation. We hope it will be moderate.”  After cutting public wages and increasing value-added tax
by 5 percentage points, Romania is on track to meet its  budget
deficit  target of 4.4 percent this year, as agreed with the
 International Monetary Fund  and the European Union, Fitch said.
It will need to take “further policy measures” to narrow the
deficit meet the 2012 target, the ratings company added.  “The rating upgrade will mean lower financing costs for the
Finance Ministry and also for the banks operating in the
country,” Deputy Finance Minister Bogdan Dragoi said by phone.
“The decision shows increased Romanian credibility for foreign
investors, and I hope it will make it easier to attract foreign
direct investment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Irina Savu in Bucharest at 
 isavu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  