-- 
Russian Grain Prices Fall for Second Week as Demand Stays Slack

-- B y   M a r i n a   S y s o y e v a
-- 
2011-07-04T16:00:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/russian-grain-prices-fall-for-second-week-as-demand-stays-slack.html
Russian grain prices fell for a
second week as demand failed to improve before a ban on cereal
exports expired, according to prices tracked by  Russia ’s  Grain
Producers’ Union .  Fourth-grade milling wheat, usually shipped abroad, dropped
as much as 14 percent to 5,000 rubles ($180) a metric ton in the
Southern and North Caucasus federal districts as of July 1, the
union said today. Both regions are traditional Russian grain
producers.  No ships were able to leave ports when the ban ended July 1
because cargo registration had to be completed before grain
loading could start, Arkady Zlochevsky, president of Russia’s
Grain Union, said last week. Traders registered 1.1 million tons
of grain with customs in the ports of Novorossiysk and Tuapse on
the new crop year’s first day, Interfax cited First Deputy Prime
Minister Viktor Zubkov as saying last week.  Exporters may ship between 1.5 million and 1.6 million tons
of grain out of Russia under commercial contracts this month,
according to estimates by the Grain Union and Moscow-based
researchers OOO ProZerno and SovEcon. That would be a drop of as
much as 21 percent from the year-earlier 1.9 million tons,
SovEcon Managing Director Andrei Sizov Jr. told Bloomberg on
July 1.  Weak demand from  Egypt  and other traditional customers for
Russian grain was the main reason for the year-on-year drop in
exports, Zlochevsky said June 30. The start of local harvesting
also put more pressure on domestic grain prices, he said. Egypt,
the world’s biggest wheat importer, dropped Russia from its list
of approved sources after the export ban was imposed.  Prospective buyers are in no hurry to order Russian grain,
awaiting discounts of as much as $30 a ton, Zlochevsky said.
They may ask for prices to fall as much as $50 a ton when
harvesting has progressed further, he said. That compares with
current prices of $250 to $260 a ton ($6.80 to $7.07 a bushel),
according to Zlochevsky.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marina Sysoyeva in Moscow at 
 msysoyeva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  