-- 
Russian Stocks Rise Fifth Day on $95 Crude Oil, Greece Bailout

-- B y   J a s o n   C o r c o r a n
-- 
2011-07-04T15:19:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/russian-stocks-rise-fifth-day-on-95-crude-oil-greece-s-loan.html
Russian stocks climbed for a fifth
day as oil gained after  Europe  authorized a loan payout for
 Greece , easing speculation the country’s crisis will derail the
region’s economic recovery.  The Micex Index of 30 stocks increased 0.5 percent to
1,706.12 by the 6:45 p.m. close in Moscow, extending its
advances for the longest winning streak since January. OAO
Rosneft, Russia’s biggest oil company, and OAO Tatneft, the
crude producer based in the Tatarstan region, added 0.8 percent
and 1.4 percent, respectively. OAO Magnit, Russia’s largest
supermarket chain by market value, rose 1.1 percent. The dollar
denominated RTS Index advanced 0.6 percent to 1,948.48.  Oil, Russia’s chief export revenue earner, jumped as much
as 53 cents to $95.47 a barrel after European finance ministers
authorized an 8.7 billion-euro ($12.6 billion) loan payout to
Greece on July 2.  Brent crude  rose after Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. lowered its estimate for the amount its price forecasts may
fall following the International Energy Agency’s release of
strategic stockpiles. U.S. manufacturing unexpectedly expanded
at a faster pace in June, the Institute for Supply Management’s
factory index showed last week.  “The Russian market is higher because the outlook for
economic growth in the U.S. is better after the ISM number and
because the Greek vote has improved investor risk appetite,”
 Chris Weafer , chief strategist at ING Groep NV in Moscow, wrote
in e-mailed comments. “Russia is still viewed as a derivative
of the global economy.”  Copper rose to a two-month high in  London  on speculation
 China , the world’s biggest consumer of the metal, may refrain
from tightening monetary policy further after figures indicated
weaker growth. Nickel, tin and zinc also increased on the London
Metal Exchange. OAO GMK Norilsk Nickel, Russia’s biggest miner,
gained 0.5 percent to 7,400 rubles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jason Corcoran at 
 Jcorcoran13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  