-- 
Russian Consumer Prices Probably Advanced Least in 14 Months on Food Costs

-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 
2011-07-04T20:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/russian-consumer-prices-probably-advanced-least-in-14-months-on-food-costs.html
Russia’s consumer prices probably
rose in June at the slowest monthly pace since April 2010 as
fresh produce eased food costs.  Prices advanced 0.3 percent from a month earlier after
increasing 0.5 percent in May, according to the median estimate
of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The annual rate remained
at 9.6 percent for a third month, the survey showed. The Federal
Statistics Service  plans  to report the data today or tomorrow.  Seasonal produce from the new harvest is easing price
pressure and helping subdue the fastest price growth among the
so-called BRIC countries. The inflation rate fell to 9.4 percent
on June 27 from a year earlier, the lowest in 2011, the central
bank said last week as it refrained from monetary tightening for
the first time since November.  “Seasonal factors are helping food prices and that’s the
reason why inflation is easing,” said Sanna Kurronen, a
Helsinki-based economist at Danske Bank A/S. “Inflation should
slow in the summer if the harvest is at least tolerable.”  Cumulative consumer-price growth will probably reach no
more than 5.2 percent in the first half and 0.3 percent to 0.4
percent in the third quarter,  Alexei Ulyukayev , a Bank Rossii
first deputy chairman, said June 17. Year-to-date inflation was
5 percent through June 27.  Central bank Chairman Sergey Ignatiev is targeting
inflation of 6 percent to 7 percent this year, the lowest level
since the  Soviet Union  collapsed in 1991.  Above Average Harvest  “Our expectation is that inflation will go down,” Sergey Shvetsov, a deputy chairman of the central bank, said July 1 in
an interview in Moscow. “We believe that if the harvest will be
at the average level, inflation will be at about 7 percent by
the end of the year.”  This year’s grain harvest may reach as much as 90 million
tons if favorable weather continues into July,  Grain Union 
President Arkady Zlochevsky said June 30. The harvest was 60.9
million tons last year after the country’s worst drought in 50
years triggered crop losses, sending grain prices soaring.  “Inflation should remain on a downward trend throughout
the second half, supported primarily by an easing in food-price
inflation,” Gillian Edgeworth, chief emerging Europe economist
at UniCredit SpA in London, wrote in an e-mail.  Gasoline prices probably dropped last month as the
government increased export taxes on the fuel to drive down
domestic prices amid shortages at the pump.  Inflation Concerns  Even so, slowing growth of retail  bank deposits  signals a
drop in the saving rate, which may stoke inflation risks as
domestic demand grows, Bank Rossii said last week.  Consumer lending expanded 3.1 percent in May, while bank
deposits grew 0.5 percent, the slowest in four months, Bank
Rossii said June 27.  The  unemployment rate  plunged in May to the lowest level
since September 2008 and retail sales grew 5.5 percent from a
year earlier. Real wages gained 2.6 percent from a year earlier
even as real disposable incomes shrank 7 percent.  The central bank may still raise  interest rates  to limit
risks stemming from a decline in savings and accelerating credit
growth as consumer demand recovers, said  Barbara Nestor , a
London-based economist at Commerzbank AG.  “If this scenario materialized, the current level of real
interest rates would still be little or no incentive for
domestic savings,” Nestor said by e-mail. “Some of the
underlying trends suggest that monetary tightening is likely to
continue.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in  London  at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  