-- 
Russia’s RTS Stock-Index Futures Gain as Oil at Two-Week High

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-07-04T21:15:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/russia-s-rts-stock-index-futures-gain-as-oil-at-two-week-high.html
Russia’s RTS stock-index futures
gained, suggesting shares may rise further, as oil in  New York 
traded near a two-week high after the European Union authorized
a loan payout for Greece, helping investors’ optimism on a
global economic recovery.  Futures on the dollar-denominated index expiring in
September gained 0.2 percent on July 4. Contracts on OAO
Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer, rose 0.1 percent,
while agreements on OAO Lukoil, the second largest, and OAO
Gazprom, the world’s largest gas producer, were little changed.
U.S. markets were closed for the Independence Day holiday
yesterday.  “ Risk aversion  has fallen sharply with the Greek vote and
the better-than-expected U.S. manufacturing number,”  Chris Weafer , chief strategist at ING Groep NV in Moscow, said in an
e-mailed report. “Events later in the week will serve to
determine whether the current mood of optimism is justified or
misplaced.”  Russia  is the world’s largest energy exporter. Oil and
natural gas make up a quarter of its economic output.  Oil climbed as much as 0.6 percent after European finance
ministers approved an 8.7 billion-euro ($12.6 billion) aid
payment to Greece on July 2. U.S. manufacturing accelerated in
June, supporting the  Federal Reserve ’s forecast that the economy
will strengthen in the second half of 2011, a report showed last
week.  Emerging-market stocks rose on July 4, driving the
benchmark index to a two-month high, on speculation China will
refrain from boosting  interest rates .  ‘Big Danger’  “The two big elephants in the room that affected investor
sentiment through most of the second quarter” have been dealt
with, Weafer said in the report. “The big danger for emerging
market equities is that the  U.S. economy  starts to strengthen
while China, and the other major developing economies that have
been raising interest rates, weaken. In that case we could
easily again see more investor money shifting from the emerging
market asset class and back into U.S. equity funds.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index climbed 1.1 percent to
1,169.49 as of 4:45 p.m. New York time, the highest close since
May 4.  Crude for August delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as 53 cents to $95.47 a barrel and was at
$95 at the 1:15 p.m. New York time close of electronic trading
on Globex. On June 30, the contract settled at $95.42, the
highest level in more than two weeks. Nymex floor trading was
closed yesterday.  Russia’s 30-stock, ruble-denominated  Micex index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.5
percent to 1,706.12 in Moscow on July 4, extending its advances
for the longest winning streak since January. The dollar-
denominated RTS Index added 0.6 percent to 1,948.48.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  