-- 
Saudi Pledges on Supply Ahead of New Pricing: Persian Gulf Oil

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-07-04T13:45:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/saudi-pledges-on-supply-ahead-of-new-pricing-persian-gulf-oil.html
Saudi Arabia  will try to ensure
global oil markets have enough supply even as the  International
Energy Agency  coordinates an emergency release of crude reserves
from member countries.  State producers including Saudi Arabian Oil Co. are set to
announce monthly selling prices for crude as traders wait to see
if lower costs encourage sales.  Abu Dhabi  plans to ship more
Murban crude in August, while reducing supplies of other grades.  The following is a weekly summary of Persian Gulf crude and
product market news and forthcoming events:  Crude Oil   Saudi Arabia will make good on its pledge to provide
markets with the amount of oil they need, a person familiar with
policy at the country’s oil ministry said last week. It will do
so regardless of the IEA’s coordination this month of the
release of 60 million barrels.  The Saudis estimate that annual consumption will increase
next year by 1.2 million to 1.5 million barrels a day, and the
kingdom will contribute to satisfying demand, according to the
person, who declined to be identified because he isn’t
authorized to speak on the matter. Ministry officials in  Riyadh 
didn’t respond to calls for comment.  The Saudi state producer, known as Saudi Aramco, will
announce official prices this week for crude sold in August
under long-term contracts, according to its normal practice of
releasing prices by the fifth day of each month.  “They will try to export more crude, and eventually we
might expect that to bring down prices,” said Thad Malesa, an
independent oil analyst based in Dubai. “ Kuwait  and Abu Dhabi
are also putting more on the market.”  Abu Dhabi National Oil Co. lowered its retroactive prices
on all four crude grades shipped under long-term contracts in
June, at a slower pace than global benchmarks. The state-run
producer in the capital and largest emirate of the  United Arab
Emirates  cut prices for crude shipped last month by 1 percent to
1.5 percent, according to an e-mailed list.  Adnoc, as the company is known, will ship more Murban
crude, its most-abundant grade, in August than it is scheduled
to supply in July. The company will ship 5 percent less Murban
than it committed to under long-term contracts for August,
compared with 10 percent less that it agreed to for July.  Oil markets will be in “dire need” of more crude in the
third quarter, Kuwait’s Oil Minister Mohammad al-Busairy said,
state-run Kuwait News Agency reported on June 27. Saudi Arabia,
Kuwait and the U.A.E. are the only OPEC members able to meet
additional demand, he said.  West Texas Intermediate, the North American benchmark,
ended the second quarter at $95.42 a barrel, 11 percent lower
than at the end of March, and $4.04 a barrel higher than the
2010 close. European benchmark Brent crude declined 4.2 percent
in the quarter to $112.48 a barrel, compared with $94.75 a
barrel at the end of 2010.  In regional trading, Oman oil futures declined 3 percent to
finish the quarter at $106.55 a barrel, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Omani crude ended 2010 at $88.74 a
barrel. Dubai crude slipped 2.9 percent in the three months
through June, to close at $106.33 a barrel. The grade increased
from $88.54 a barrel at the end of the year.  The spread between Dubai and Brent narrowed over the last
three months as the European benchmark, a higher-quality crude,
fell faster than heavier and more sulfurous Middle Eastern
grades. Dubai crude sold for $6.15 a barrel less than Brent at
the end of June, compared with a $7.89-a-barrel spread at the
end of March.  Oman crude’s official selling price fell for a second month
in August to $107.84 a barrel, based on the average of daily
futures settlement prices on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange, as
calculated by Bloomberg News. That’s 1.2 percent below July’s
level of $109.20.  Light Products  Saudi Aramco  Mobil Refinery Co., a company jointly owned by
Saudi Aramco and Exxon Mobil Corp., sold 230,000 barrels of
naphtha to Glencore International AG, ICIS reported on June 30,
citing traders. The cargo, sold in a tender, will load July 21
to July 23 from Yanbu, Saudi Arabia.  Emirates National Oil Co., a Dubai government-owned refiner
and operator of service stations, closed filling points in
neighboring Sharjah and restricted supplies to other northern
emirates. Dubai, the second-largest of the U.A.E.’s seven
sheikhdoms, has stopped supplying gasoline to its neighbors as
subsidies on fuel prices squeeze the city’s ability to repay
debt.  Emirates General Petroleum Corp. , a another U.A.E. gasoline
retailer, agreed to buy at least 100,000 metric tons of regular
gasoline to help cover the shortage in Sharjah, two people
familiar with the transaction said. Emarat, as the company is
known, will buy four cargoes of gasoline from  Total SA (FP)  for
delivery from July through September.  Refineries  Abu Dhabi Oil Refining Co. said all units at its 85,000
barrel-a-day fuel-processing facility near the U.A.E. capital
are fully operational, denying reports that a fire broke out at
the refinery on June 26. The government-owned fuel processer,
known as  Takreer , said the facility was running safely.  Processing units at Kuwait’s Mina Abdulla refinery were
resuming operations after a gas leak on June 30, said Mohammed al-Ajmi, a spokesman for state-owned Kuwait National Petroleum
Co. Some installations at the 270,000-barrel-a-day plant halted
after the incident. The leak did not stop exports because the
facility had adequate stockpiles.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Stephen Voss  on   sev@bloomberg.net . 