-- 
Serbia and Kosovo Agree to Ease Document Exchanges and Travel

-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c
-- 
2011-07-04T08:50:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/serbia-and-kosovo-agree-to-ease-document-exchanges-and-travel.html
Serbia , which does not recognize the
independence of its former province  Kosovo , will allow some
exchanges of records and ease travel between both sides, a
Serbian official said.  After months of talks under the EU auspices, Serbia and
Kosovo agreed to allow freedom of movement of respective
citizens who carry  identity cards , driving licenses and some
registration plates issued by the other side, excluding
passports, as Serbia insists it will never recognize Kosovo as a
state, said Borislav Stefanovic, the head of Serbia’s
negotiating team.  Serbia hopes to become an official candidate for EU
membership this year and a condition for that is having good
relations with neighbors. Kosovo has been recognized as a
sovereign state by 22 out of 27 EU nations. It declared
independence in 2008, after being a United Nations protectorate
for almost a decade.  “The solutions will help ordinary people, we found ways to
solve practical problems” including transportation, vehicle
insurance and issuing of birth and marriage certificates,
“without implicit or explicit recognition” of Kosovo,
Stefanovic told reporters in Belgrade yesterday.  Under the agreement reached in Brussels, people with Kosovo
documents entering Serbia will be issued special certificates
allowing them overland passage, Stefanovic said. For car plates
featuring a Kosovo flag Serbia authorities will issue temporary,
“status-neutral” replacements at the border, he said.  Further talks are expected in September about mutual
recognition of school diplomas, cooperation on land registries,
customs and energy trading, Stefanovic said.  In Kosovo, the agreement was hailed as “bilateral, between
two states,” Beta  news agency  reported. Stefanovic said there
will be no signing ceremony, only implementation by both sides.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  