-- 
Sony to Complete Restoration of Online Services This Week

-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 
2011-07-04T10:05:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/sony-to-resume-playstation-network-services-in-japan.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  will resume full
PlayStation Network services in  Japan  this week, completing the
final stretch of the company’s 2 1/2 month restoration of its
online operations after they were attacked by hackers.  The maker of the PlayStation 3 game consoles will bring
back online purchases of game content and video on demand from
the PlayStation Network and Qriocity in Japan starting July 6,
the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today.  The attack on Sony’s data centers in  San Diego  compromised
more than 100 million customer accounts, the second-largest
online data breach in U.S. history, and will cost an estimated
14 billion yen ($173 million) for the company this fiscal year.
Chairman  Howard Stringer  told shareholders last week the
services will continue to be a main source of growth.  “Sony will probably go back to its way to expand the
businesses after fixing the vulnerabilities,” said  Masahiko Ishino , an analyst at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities
Co. in Tokyo. “Investors have high expectation for Sony’s
online businesses.”  Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of electronics, rose 0.3
percent to close at 2,132 yen in Tokyo trading today. They have
lost 27 percent this year, compared with a 2.6 percent decline
in the benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock Average.  Boosting Security  As many as 90 percent of PlayStation Network users have
come back after services were restored in the U.S. and  Europe  in
June, Stringer said in Tokyo last week.  Stringer had earlier apologized and offered U.S. users of
its PlayStation Network and Qriocity online services a year of
free identity-theft protection after the system was crippled.  The company boosted security by increasing the number of
firewalls between servers and adding software to monitor
intrusions and system vulnerabilities before resuming the online
entertainment services, it said in May. Sony also appointed
Fumiaki Sakai to the newly created post of chief information
security officer.  The electronics maker was told by the Japanese government
in May to carry out preventive measures against data breaches,
ease customer concerns over misuse of their credit cards and
share more information among affiliates.  After the April attack, Sony struggled to keep up with the
barrage of cyber attacks stealing customer information and
halting some of its online services. The company faced smaller
intrusions in May including a breach at online-service unit So-
net Entertainment Corp. that led to the misuse of user names and
passwords of 128 customers. Sony also shut web pages that were
targeted in  Greece ,  Canada ,  Thailand  and  Indonesia .  Investigation  Sony is working with authorities including the U.S. Federal
Bureau of Investigation to identify the intruders, the company
has said. The search for suspects in the mid-April cyber attack
is continuing,  Mami Imada , a Tokyo-based spokeswoman, said
today.  The attack in April was launched through a server rented
from Amazon.com Inc.’s cloud-computing service, a person with
knowledge of the matter said in May. The account was shut and
Amazon’s servers weren’t compromised, the person had said.  Sony said in May revenue from the online business rose to
55 billion yen in the 12 months ended March 31 from 36 billion
yen in the year-earlier period, according to Imada. The company
aims to double that revenue in the current fiscal year, she
said.  That’s less than 1 percent of the company’s annual revenue
of 7.18 trillion yen for the fiscal year 2010. Sony is targeting
over 300 billion yen ($3.4 billion) in revenue from online
services in the year ending March 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in  Tokyo  at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net .
Takehiko Kumakura at 
 tkumakura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 