-- 
South Korean Won Rises to Three-Year High on Inflation Fight; Bonds Fall

-- B y   K i m   K y o u n g w h a
-- 
2011-07-04T06:43:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/south-korean-won-rises-to-three-year-high-on-inflation-fight-bonds-fall.html
South Korea ’s won rose to the highest
level in almost three years on speculation authorities will
favor appreciation to combat inflation.  Government bonds  fell.  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent from a year earlier in
June, exceeding the central bank’s 4 percent ceiling for a sixth
month and adding to pressure for  interest rates  to be raised.
The government raised its 2011 inflation estimate by a
percentage point to 4 percent last week, while trimming its
economic growth forecast to 4.5 percent from 5 percent.  “A mild appreciation in the won is likely to continue,”
Hwang Sun Min, Seoul-based foreign exchange trader with Kookmin
Bank, South Korea’s largest lender. “Policy makers are paying
close attention to high inflation as the economy is relatively
resilient and the stock market is faring quite well.”  The won strengthened 0.3 percent to close at 1,063.50 per
dollar in  Seoul , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier touched 1,062.85, the strongest level since August 2008.  South Korea plans to tighten monitoring of foreign-exchange
 margin trading  to curb losses by retail investors, Yonhap News
reported yesterday, citing a financial regulatory official it
didn’t identify. The regulator will inspect securities and
futures companies’ margin trading practices starting next month
and may revise regulations governing such investments, the
report said.  The yield on the government’s 4 percent bonds due March
2016 was little changed at 4.045 percent, after rising as much
as seven basis points to 4.11 percent, according to prices from
Korea Exchange Inc. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The government sold 1.3 trillion won of three-year bonds at
a yield of 3.79 percent today, the Ministry of Strategy and
Finance said today. Investors bid to buy 5.8 trillion won of
treasuries, or 4.49 times the amount offered, the ministry said
on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  