-- 
South Korea Will Examine Condition of Savings Banks to Help or Sell Them

-- B y   S e o n j i n   C h a
-- 
2011-07-04T01:51:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/south-korea-will-examine-condition-of-savings-banks-to-help-or-sell-them.html
South Korean regulators will begin
assessing the financial condition of savings banks this month to
determine whether they are sound enough to receive  government
aid  or should be sold.  The government will review 85 of the 98 savings banks
operating now and announce the results of the inspection by late
September, the  Financial Services Commission  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  South Korea  is tightening supervision of small lenders
after construction loans soured following a real-estate market
slump. The National Assembly on June 1 agreed to conduct a probe
of savings banks amid growing speculation that regulators
overlooked illicit activity at the lenders.  “Unless there are excessive deposit withdrawals causing a
liquidity crunch, we won’t suspend any savings banks because of
financial weakness until late September when we announce the
results of the review,” the FSC said in the statement.  Lenders with a capital-adequacy ratio higher than 5 percent
under  Bank for International Settlements  criteria will be able
to receive state funds if they want, the regulator said. The
government may sell bonds to help fund the recapitalization, it
said, without elaborating.  Swift Sales  State guarantor  Korea Deposit Insurance Corp.  will seek
swift sales of non-viable savings banks after the review,
according to today’s statement. Banks with a BIS capital ratio
below 5 percent may be shuttered unless their financials improve
within six to 12 months.  Regulators suspended eight savings banks earlier this year
because of bad loans. The government has ordered the sale of
seven of those lenders, while Woori Finance Holdings Co. took
over some assets of Samhwa Mutual Savings Bank in March.  Combined assets at the country’s savings banks dropped 2
percent to 74 trillion won ($70 billion) at the end of March
from three months earlier, and deposits fell 2.8 percent to 64.4
trillion won, today’s statement showed.  The banks had combined losses of 48.7 billion won for the
nine months ended March, compared with 333.3 billion won of
losses posted in the year ended June 2010, the FSC said today.
Some 68 percent of the lenders posted profits.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Seonjin Cha in Seoul at 
 scha2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  