-- 
Spain’s Loterias Said to Hire Four Banks for $10 Billion IPO

-- B y   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 
2011-07-04T11:37:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/spain-s-lottery-company-said-to-hire-four-banks-for-10-billion-share-sale.html
Spain’s national lottery operator
hired four banks for an initial public offering that may raise
as much as 7 billion euros ($10 billion), according to two
people with knowledge of the transaction.  Sociedad Estatal Loterias y Apuestas del Estado mandated
Credit Suisse AG,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  UBS AG (UBSN)  for the sale of a 30 percent stake, valuing the
company at as much as 21 billion euros, according to the people,
who declined to be named because the information is private. A
listing is expected to come as early as November, said the
people. If successful, it would be Spain’s biggest IPO ever,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis from Greece to Portugal has
reduced investors’ appetite for IPOs in the region. In western
Europe, at least 21 IPOs were delayed or pulled this year, the
most since 2006, Bloomberg data show. Spain has had no
successful IPOs this year, according to the data.  “There isn’t anything official yet,” said Juan Serrano,
Madrid-based spokesman for Loterias. An announcement could be
expected in the next few days, he said.  Telefonica SA (TEF) , Spain’s largest phone company, last month
shelved a share sale of its Atento Inversiones & Teleservicios
SAU unit, which was seeking as much as 745 million euros.  Meanwhile, Spanish banks are seeking to strengthen capital
levels by selling shares. Bankia, the lender formed by a merger
of seven savings banks led by  Caja Madrid , is seeking as much as
4.2 billion euros while Banca Civica, formed from the
combination of another four savings banks, aims to raise as much
as 844 million euros. Both are scheduled to start trading on
July 20 in Madrid.  Expansion reported that Loterias had hired the banks on
July 2.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in  Madrid  at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  