-- 
Strauss-Kahn Prosecutors to Decide ‘Responsible Thing to Do’ in Sex Case

-- B y   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d
-- 
2011-07-04T18:53:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/strauss-kahn-prosecutors-to-decide-responsible-thing-to-do-in-sex-case.html
Manhattan  District Attorney  Cyrus Vance Jr.’s office isn’t ready to dismiss sexual assault charges
against former International Monetary Fund chief Dominique Strauss-Kahn even after becoming aware of allegations his
accuser was a prostitute, his top deputy said.  “We’re going to complete our investigation,” Daniel R.
Alonso, chief assistant district attorney, said yesterday in an
interview. “And we’re going to decide the responsible thing to
do.”  There is no evidence to support a report by the New York
Post, citing defense sources, that Strauss-Kahn’s accuser, a
hotel housekeeper from Guinea, is a prostitute or targeted him
for financial gain, Alonso said.  Prosecutors have done “everything by the book” in
handling the case, Alonso said. The office’s investigation
uncovered evidence that the 32-year-old woman had lied about key
aspects of her life. Alonso declined to comment on whether she
may be charged with perjury.  The tipping point, which led to Strauss-Kahn’s July 1
release from home confinement, may have been an interview with
the accuser on June 9 in which she admitted that she had falsely
claimed she had been gang-raped by solders in  Guinea ,
prosecutors said.  The woman had “cried and appeared markedly distraught” in
two interviews when recounting the rape, according to a court
filing. Then she admitted that the rape she had spoken of so
emotionally had never occurred. Prosecutors said the woman’s
attorney cut off questioning.  ‘Credibility Issues’  “The district attorney made clear we had to complete the
interview, determine what our obligations were and finish the
investigation as soon as possible,” Alonso said.  Strauss-Kahn, 62, still facing charges of sexual assault
and attempted rape, was released from home confinement after
prosecutors told a judge the case had been hurt by “substantial
credibility issues.” His $1 million bail and $5 million bond
were ordered returned, and he is no longer required to remain
under armed guard and electronic monitoring.  He is allowed to travel throughout the U.S. Prosecutors
kept his travel documents.  The economist and politician, who was a possible Socialist
Party candidate to challenge French President  Nicolas Sarkozy 
next year, is scheduled to return to court July 18.  “The case is not over,” New York State Supreme Court
Justice Michael Obus told him at the July 1 hearing.  Dismissal Prediction  Benjamin Brafman , Strauss-Kahn’s lawyer, said after the
hearing that he thought all of the charges will eventually be
dismissed. “We believed from the beginning that this case was
not what it appeared to be,” he said.  Brafman declined to comment yesterday.  Kenneth Thompson, a lawyer for the housekeeper, told
reporters July 1 that medical and forensic evidence supported
the woman’s account of the assault. That evidence includes
hospital photos of a vaginal bruise that the woman suffered when
Strauss-Kahn grabbed her, he said. The forensic evidence is
consistent with the woman’s account that she spit out semen as
she fled the room, Thompson said.  The case against Strauss-Kahn will be pursued along with
an investigation of false statements by his accuser that have
“raised concerns,” Vance said July 1.  Air  France  Flight  The former French finance minister was taken off an Air
France flight by Port Authority police at  John F. Kennedy
International Airport  in  New York  on May 14, the day of the
alleged attack.  He was turned over to detectives from the New York Police
Department’s Special Victims Squad and formally arrested early
May 15.  At a May 16 hearing, prosecutors asked that Strauss-Kahn
be held without bail, saying the evidence was compelling that he
was a flight risk because France doesn’t extradite its citizens.  Strauss-Kahn was incarcerated at Riker’s Island, New York’s
main jail complex, until May 20, when a judge allowed him to be
released under house arrest over a prosecutor’s objections.
Prosecutors estimated his security cost $200,000 a month.  At the July 1 hearing, prosecutors agreed not to oppose
Strauss-Kahn’s request to be released on his own recognizance.  “At the time this case came to the district attorney’s
office, we were faced with a credible claim of a serious sexual
assault by a civilian witness who made prompt outcry to third
parties and had a solid work history with her employer,”
prosecutor Joan Illuzzi-Orbon said in court July 1. “The fact
of a sexual encounter was and is corroborated by forensic
evidence, and the very brief time period inside the hotel suite
strongly suggested something other than a consensual act.”  Co-Workers, Friends  Illuzzi-Orbon said the office conducted extensive
interviews with the alleged victim, co-workers, friends and
hotel security, and also reviewed physical evidence and
subpoenaed records.  According to a letter dated June 30 and filed in court July
1 by prosecutors, the housekeeper lied to a grand jury about her
actions right after the alleged attack, as well as on her tax
returns and in an application for asylum.  The housekeeper stated in a 2004 application for asylum
that she had been raped by Guinean soldiers, prosecutors said in
the letter. She also had stated that she and her husband had
been persecuted and harassed by the dictatorial regime then in
power in Guinea. She said her house was burned and her husband
died while in jail.  Fabricated Statement  The woman said she fabricated the statement with the
assistance of a man who provided her with a cassette recording
of the facts contained in the statement that she eventually
submitted, according to the letter.  Prosecutors said they were stymied in their attempts to
obtain more information from the woman after Thompson, her
lawyer, failed to make her available for questioning for 19 days
after he cut off the June 9 interview.  Thompson and a representative didn’t immediately return e-
mails seeking comment yesterday.  By June 28, the district attorney’s office had discovered
$50,000 to $100,000 had been deposited in the woman’s bank
account over less than two years, according to a person who
declined to be identified because the matter is still under
investigation. The deposits were made from at least two states,
 Arizona  and  Georgia , the person said.  They also learned the woman had more than one telephone,
the person said.  Friend in Jail  The housekeeper claimed the deposits were the result of
someone else using her account, the person said. The man using
the account was a friend who is jailed in Arizona in connection
with the possession of 100 pounds of marijuana, the person said.  On June 28, the woman changed her story about what happened
immediately after the incident in the Sofitel on West 44th
Street, a story she had given to the grand jury that indicted
Strauss-Kahn on seven counts, including criminal sex act,
attempted rape, sexual abuse, unlawful imprisonment and forcible
touching.  The woman told the grand jury that after the assault in
suite 2806 of the  Sofitel  in  Manhattan , she fled to an area of
the main hallway on the 28th floor and waited until she saw
Strauss-Kahn leave the suite, according to the June 30 letter.  She said she then reported the incident to her supervisor,
who arrived a short time later, according to the letter.  The housekeeper on June 28 “admitted that this account was
false and that after the incident in suite 2806 she proceeded to
clean a nearby room and then returned to suite 2806 and began to
clean it before she reported the incident to her supervisor,”
according to the letter.  Translated Summary  The following day, on June 29, prosecutors obtained a
translated summary of a recorded phone call in which the
housekeeper discussed the incident with a friend incarcerated in
Arizona, said the person familiar with the matter.  A paralegal in the office took notes as an interpreter
translated the conversation in a Guinean language called Fulani.
The notes show the woman talked about the incident and what
happened in the hotel room, the person said. The man asked if
she was all right, the person said.  The accuser is quoted as saying, “Don’t worry, this guy
has a lot of money. I know what I’m doing,” according to
another person, who declined to be identified because the person
was not authorized to speak publicly.  Prosecutors requested the date of the conversation, and
learned by June 30 that it had taken place May 15, the day after
the alleged attack.  Tax Cheating  According to the letter, the woman admitted other lies
during the district attorney’s investigation. She said that for
the past two years she declared a friend’s child in addition to
her own as a dependent on her tax returns to increase her
refund. She also said she misrepresented her income in order to
maintain her housing, prosecutors said in the letter.  At 3 p.m. on June 30, prosecutors met with defense attorney
Brafman and gave him the letter.  The following day, Straus-Kahn was free to leave his rented
townhouse as he wished.  Voter polls had shown Strauss-Kahn as the potential
candidate with the best chance of beating Sarkozy in next May’s
general election. Socialist Party hopefuls have until July 13 to
register for their primary, which is scheduled for October.  Strauss-Kahn should return to the French political scene,
according to 49 percent of people surveyed by the French daily
 Le Parisien . A total of 45 percent said he shouldn’t come back
to politics, the poll showed.  Harris Interactive  conducted the survey for Le Parisien,
questioning 1,000 adults online from July 1 at 8 p.m. local time
through July 2.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11,  Supreme Court 
of the State of New York, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  