-- 
Strauss-Kahn Prosecutors Seeking More Answers Before Decision to Drop Case

-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h ,   K a r e n   F r e i f e l d   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-07-05T20:47:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/strauss-kahn-new-york-prosecutors-probe-for-answers-on-next-move-in-case.html
Manhattan  District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr. must complete key elements of an investigation before
deciding whether to drop the prosecution of Dominique Strauss- Kahn because of lies told by the maid who accused him of sexual
assault.  Prosecutors are continuing to investigate, Daniel R.
Alonso, chief assistant district attorney, said July 3 in an
interview. Once his office has the facts, Vance must decide
whether to go before a jury with an accuser who admitted lying
to investigators and under oath to a grand jury.  If he doesn’t prosecute, based on weak or contradictory
facts turned up in his investigation, he must drop the case and
decide whether to charge his key witness with lying to the grand
jury that indicted Strauss-Kahn based on her false testimony,
defense lawyers and former prosecutors said.  There’s a “strong likelihood” the case will be dismissed
at Strauss-Kahn’s next court appearance, on July 18, said Paul Callan, a defense lawyer and ex-Brooklyn,  New York , prosecutor.  “They’re just going to want to walk away from this case
and forget it ever happened,” said Callan, who represented a
woman charged with perjury for falsely accusing a man of raping
her at knifepoint in 2005.  The work before prosecutors includes going “word for
word” through a phone call recorded the day after the arrest,
in which the housekeeper discusses the incident with a friend
incarcerated in Arizona, said a person familiar with the matter
who declined to be identified because the matter isn’t public.  Interrupted Flight  Strauss-Kahn, 62, the former International Monetary Fund
chief, was taken off an Air France flight by Port Authority
police at  John F. Kennedy International Airport  in New York on
May 14, the day of the alleged attack at the Sofitel in midtown
Manhattan. He was turned over to detectives from the New York
police Special Victims Squad the next day.  Considered a front-runner for the French presidency before
his arrest, Strauss-Kahn, who has pleaded not guilty, resigned
as head of the IMF four days later.  He was released from home confinement July 1 after
prosecutors  told a judge  the case had been hurt by “substantial
credibility issues” with the accuser. His $1 million bail and
$5 million bond were ordered returned. He is no longer required
to remain under armed guard and electronic monitoring.  In a letter filed the same day with the court, prosecutors
said the 32-year-old maid admitted lying to the grand jury about
her actions immediately after the alleged attack, declaring a
friend’s child as her own for two years to boost her  tax refund 
and misrepresenting her income to maintain her housing.  Asylum Application  The woman also admitted lying on an asylum application
after coming to the U.S. from  Guinea  in January 2004,
prosecutors said.  She said in the application that she and her husband were
persecuted and harassed by the regime in Guinea, prosecutors
said. The woman said she had been gang-raped by Guinean
soldiers, her house was destroyed and her husband died while in
jail, according to the letter.  The woman told district attorney’s investigators that she
fabricated the statement with help from a man who provided her
with a cassette recording of the facts in the statement that she
eventually submitted, according to the letter.  By June 28, the district attorney’s office had discovered
$50,000 to $100,000 had been deposited in the woman’s bank
account over less than two years, according to a person who
declined to be identified because the matter is still under
investigation. The deposits were made from at least two states,
 Arizona  and  Georgia , the person said.  Friend in Jail  The housekeeper claimed the deposits were the result of
someone else’s using her account, the person said. That was the
friend jailed in Arizona, being held in connection with the
possession of 100 pounds of marijuana, the person said.  The woman on June 28 changed her story about what happened
immediately after the Sofitel incident. Prosecutors the next day
obtained a summary of a recorded phone call on the day after the
alleged attack, in which the maid discussed the incident with
the friend incarcerated in Arizona, according to the person
familiar with the matter.  A paralegal in the office had taken notes as an interpreter
translated the conversation in a Guinean language called Fulani.
A digest of the translation showed the woman talked about the
incident and what happened in the hotel room, the person said.
The next step is for prosecutors and the interpreter to go
through the call “word for word,” the person familiar said.  ‘Don’t Worry’  The accuser is quoted as saying on the call, “Don’t worry,
this guy has a lot of money. I know what I’m doing,” according
to another person who declined to be identified because the
person was not authorized to speak publicly.  The pair talked about the incident in the hotel, and he
asked her if she was all right, the person said.  There is no evidence so far to support a report by the New
York Post, citing defense sources, that Strauss-Kahn’s accuser
is a prostitute or targeted him for financial gain, prosecutor
Alonso said.  Strauss-Kahn’s attorney,  Benjamin Brafman , yesterday
declined to comment. Kenneth Thompson, a lawyer representing the
housekeeper, didn’t immediately return phone and e-mail messages
seeking comment. Today, Thompson filed a libel lawsuit on behalf
of the accuser against NYP Holdings Inc., a unit of  News Corp. (NWSA) 
that does business as The New York Post, in New York State
Supreme Court in the Bronx. Suzi Halpin, a spokeswoman for the
newspaper, said it stands by its story.  The case can’t survive a  jury trial , and prosecutors should
dismiss the charges immediately, said Professor Alan M. Dershowitz of  Harvard Law School  in Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  Proper Action  “The DA acted absolutely properly,” Dershowitz said in a
July 1 interview with Bloomberg Television. “He investigated
her, he discovered she had credibility gaps, and he did what
many DAs don’t do. He came into court and admitted the case was
collapsing.”  Dershowitz said he wished Vance had dismissed the case.  “This case will never go to trial,” he said. “It should
never go to trial.”  Thomas J. Curran , a Manhattan assistant district attorney
from 1995 to 2001, said Vance should drop the case if there are
doubts about the maid’s account of what happened in the Sofitel.  “Whether they could try the case or not or obtain a
conviction or not, that’s not the issue,” he said. “They have
an obligation not to roll the dice.”  Vance ought to dismiss the case or appoint a special
prosecutor to investigate the accuser, who might be charged with
lying to a grand jury,  tax fraud  or lying on an asylum
application, a federal crime, said Marvyn M. Kornberg, a Queens,
New York, criminal-defense attorney.  After Day One  “The people’s case is never as strong than on the day the
defendant is arrested,” Kornberg said. “From that day on it
all goes downhill. You don’t make your case after the arrest.
You make it before the arrest. On the day DSK was arrested, all
they had was a he-said, she-said. If that’s the strongest their
case ever was, they should never have arrested him so quickly.”  The woman might also be deported, said Kornberg, who
represented a New York City police officer who pleaded guilty to
sodomizing Haitian immigrant Abner Louima with a broom handle in
1997.  “I wouldn’t be surprised if Immigration came after her and
deported her,” Kornberg said. “I’ve seen people deported for
much less, including marijuana possession.”  It’s more likely that the housekeeper will be deported than
prosecuted for lying to the grand jury, said Callan, the ex-
Brooklyn prosecutor.  “There’s been a history of rarely prosecuting sex-crime
victims for perjury,” he said. “It tends to discourage victims
from coming forward.”  Undue Speed  Vance’s office moved faster than necessary with the case,
given the woman’s “shaky background” and could have delayed
the grand jury presentation, said Callan.  “They tried to do an honorable thing, and that is to
protect the rights of a poor hotel maid telling a story of
sexual abuse by one of the most powerful men in the world,”
Callan said. “But they jumped the gun and they moved too
quickly because he was about to get on a plane.”  It’s unlikely that the maid will sue Strauss-Kahn if the
criminal case doesn’t go forward, said Callan, who successfully
represented the estate of Nicole Brown Simpson in a civil suit
against  O.J. Simpson  after his acquittal for her murder.  The case is People v. Strauss-Kahn, 2526/11, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Freifeld in New York
at   kfreifeld@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York
at   pathurtado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  