-- 
Hsu Fu Chi in Talks With Nestle on Possible Acquisition

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T08:35:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/hsu-fu-chi-in-talks-with-nestle-many-potential-buyers.html
Hsu Fu Chi International Ltd. (HFCI) ,
China’s biggest confectioner by market value, said it’s in talks
to be acquired by potential suitors including  Nestle SA (NESN)  in what
would be the largest overseas purchase of a Chinese company.  Nestle, the world’s largest food maker, is assessing a bid
for Hsu Fu Chi and the two companies have been in talks on a
partnership for a few years, Christine Sun, a spokeswoman for
the Dongguan, Guangdong-based company, said by telephone today.
Nestle didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.  Hsu Fu Chi is valued at S$3.2 billion ($2.6 billion) on the
 Singapore  exchange, where trading of its stock was suspended
before the start of trading today. Nestle, based in Vevey,
 Switzerland , sat on more than 16 billion francs ($18.8 billion)
of cash at the end of last year and has said it will consider
making “bolt-on” acquisitions.  “Strategically, we would view the deal positively since it
would give Nestle access to China’s fast-growth $6 billion
confectionery market and allow the group a number of
international cross-selling opportunities,” MF Global analysts
including Andy Smith wrote today in a research note.  Nestle amassed a cash pile after receiving $28.3 billion in
August for a majority stake in the Alcon eye-care division.
Still, the food company has mostly shied away from major
acquisitions, its biggest recent purchase being Kraft Foods
Inc.’s North American pizza business for $3.7 billion.  Nationwide Distribution  Buying Hsu Fu Chi would give Nestle access to nationwide
distribution in  China ’s confectionary market, according to
researcher Euromonitor International. Hsu Fu Chi, which
generates all its revenue in China, may need Nestle to expand
overseas, according to Ben Cavender, an analyst with China
Market Research in  Shanghai .  “They want to go international and they don’t have
resources, capabilities necessary to do that themselves,”
Cavender said. “Having somebody like Nestle, who has a really
strong international network, really helps those brands.”  An acquisition of all of Hsu Fu Chi at its current market
value would be the largest on record of a Chinese firm by a
company based outside the country, according to Bloomberg data.  An overseas offer may encounter regulatory scrutiny from
the Chinese government, which blocked Coca-Cola Co.’s bid for
the Asian nation’s biggest domestic juice maker China Huiyuan
Juice Group Ltd. in 2009 because of concern that the tie-up
would have hurt competition.  On-Off Talks  Discussions between Nestle and Hsu Fu Chi have been on and
off for about two years, according to three people, who declined
to be identified because the talks are private. It isn’t clear
whether Nestle will reach a deal, and other suitors have also
been examining the Singapore-listed company, these people said.  Nestle’s sales in emerging markets need to increase at
least 8 percent to 10 percent a year for the company to reach
its goal of getting 45 percent of revenue from that area by
2020, according to Frits van Dijk, head of the company’s
business in  Asia ,  Africa , Oceania and the  Middle East .  “It’s very difficult for Nestle to organically grow its
distribution and logistics in China,” said Cavender. “It helps
for them to find companies like Hsu Fu Chi and bring their
product portfolio under their umbrella.”  Nestle was little changed at 52.65 Swiss frances as of
10:30 a.m. in Zurich trading.  Profit Growth  Hsu Fu Chi, which first sold shares to the public in
Singapore in December 2006, is also talking to companies in the
U.S.,  Europe  and  Japan , Sun said.  “Hsu Fu Chi wants to find a partner that will help us to
forge a long-lasting brand,” Sun said.  Hsu Fu Chi’s profit rose 31 percent to 602.2 million yuan
($93 million) in 2010 as sales climbed 14 percent to 4.3 billion
yuan, according to Bloomberg data. The shares have risen 72
percent in the past year.  The company, founded in 1992 by four brothers from  Taiwan ,
has 45 large-scale production plants and can make more than 700
different types of confectionery products, according to its
 website . Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Hsu Chen, the
second oldest of the brothers, is the 25th richest man in
Taiwan, according to Forbes magazine.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave McCombs at 
 dmccombs@bloomberg.net  