-- 
Sudan, Southern Sudan Talks to Continue After Split, IGAD Says

-- B y   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 
2011-07-04T17:46:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/sudan-southern-sudan-talks-to-continue-after-split-igad-says.html
The Sudanese government and Southern
Sudanese authorities have agreed to continue talks after the
south is declared independent next week, the  Intergovernmental
Authority on Development  said.  Delegations from the Sudanese and Southern Sudanese
governments have been discussing issues such as how to divide
revenue of oil pumped in the south, the demarcation of their
common border and the future of the disputed region of Abyei.
The oil-rich south is scheduled to declare its independence on
July 9.  IGAD “strongly commends” the two sides “for agreeing to
continue the negotiations framework agreement after July 9,
2011, for the resolution for all outstanding issues,” the East
African group, which includes Kenya, Ethiopia and  Uganda , said
in a statement handed to reporters today in  Addis Ababa , the
Ethiopian capital.  The two sides agreed in May that the south will pay the
north fees for the use of pipelines and facilities at  Port Sudan 
on the  Red Sea  to export the crude, Lual Deng, a member of the
south’s ruling  Sudan  People’s Liberation Movement and the oil
minister in Sudan’s national unity government, said on June 16.  Southern Sudan will assume control of about 75 percent of
Sudan’s current oil production of 490,000 barrels a day when it
secedes from Sudan. The two sides have not agreed yet on the
cost of the fees, which must be “reasonable” or the south
would look for other ways to export its oil, Deng said.  Under the 2005 peace agreement, which ended the two-decade
civil war between the north and the south, the two sides share
proceeds from oil pumped in the south on a 50-50 basis.  Sudanese President Umar al-Bashir said on June 21 that his
government will shut export pipelines for oil pumped in the
south if land-locked  Southern Sudan  doesn’t pay usage fees for
northern infrastructure or share proceeds after the split.  Sudan’s crude is pumped mainly by China National Petroleum
Corp., Malaysia’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd and India’s Oil &
Natural Gas Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Khartoum at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 