-- 
Syrian Forces Kill at Least Six Protesting Assad Government, Activists Say

-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 
2011-07-04T14:57:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/syria-deploys-tanks-outside-hama-as-forces-arrest-hundreds-of-protesters.html
At least six protesters died in
Syrian cities in a crackdown by the security forces following
rallies against President Bashar al-Assad’s rule that attracted
thousands in the past three days, activists said.  One anti-government demonstrator was killed and 13 were
wounded in Hama, where tanks and armored vehicles had been
deployed at the entrance to the city, north of the capital,
Damascus,  Ammar Qurabi , head of the National Organization for
Human Rights in Syria, said in a telephone interview from
Brussels today. Three died in Maarat al-Numan during raids by
the army, part of a response to the protests that has led to the
arrest of hundreds of people across the country, he said.  Security forces killed at least two demonstrators today and
two late yesterday in the Damascus suburb of Hajar Aswad,
Mahmoud Merhi, head of the Arab Organization for Human Rights,
said by phone from the capital. Rallies in Hama yesterday drew
as many as 400,000 people, he said.  Pro-government forces have killed more than 1,500 people
since the start of the unrest, according to Qurabi. U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said July 1 that Assad is
“running out of time” to meet the protesters’ demands. A U.S.-
led effort to get the  United Nations Security Council  to condemn
the violence was blocked by China and  Russia .  Protester Buried  A protester who died in custody was buried yesterday in the
Damascus district of al-Muadamiya, Merhi said. Hundreds were
arrested in Hama, in the Damascus suburbs of Harasta and Douma,
in the province of Idlib in the north and in the southern
province of Daraa, where the rallies against Assad’s rule began
in mid-March, he said.  Al Jazeera television and the Saudi Arabian state-run
broadcaster showed people beating up a Syrian cleric after he
said he wanted Assad’s government ousted at a meeting of
opposition figures in a Damascus hotel.  The army has attacked demonstrators near the border with
 Turkey , deploying at least 60 tanks along with helicopters in
Idlib. Three people died during rallies in the central province
of Homs July 1, according to Qurabi.  At least 20,000 people have been arrested since the start
of the unrest, and half of them remain in detention, according
to Qurabi. Assad has blamed the protests on a foreign
conspiracy, while also saying that the demands of demonstrators
“have merit” and that reforms are needed.  National Dialogue  Critics of Assad’s leadership met at a conference in
Damascus last week, as his government set up a national dialogue
committee. Most activists say such measures won’t work without
policy changes.  Thousands of Syrians have fled across the border to Turkey
to escape violence in northern towns, straining relations
between the countries.  As many as 15,315 Syrians have entered Turkey and settled
in six tent cities set up by the Turkish Red Crescent in the
province of Hatay, the country’s Disaster and Emergency
Management Presidency said today in a statement. A total of
5,406 have since returned to  Syria , with the number in the camps
dropping to 9,909.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 