-- 
U.K. Defense Ministry Can’t Find $10 Billion Assets

-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 
2011-07-04T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/u-k-defense-ministry-can-t-find-10-billion-assets.html
Britain’s Ministry of Defense can’t
account for 6.3 billion pounds ($10 billion) of assets and
inadequacies in stock control may continue for four more years,
lawmakers said.  The House of Commons Defense Committee said in a report
published in  London  today that the ministry is unable to account
for 752 million pounds of equipment including firearms and for
184 million pounds of radio gear. That, in part, led government
auditors to refrain from approving the department’s accounts for
a fourth straight year.  “The MoD’s inability to manage existing resources makes it
harder for them to request additional funding,” the committee’s
chairman, James Arbuthnot, said in an e-mailed statement. “This
is not some abstract problem existing only on paper: equipment
is needed by troops in the field and proper logistics are an
essential part of effective military operations.”  Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s coalition government blames
the previous Labour administration for creating a 38 billion-
pound shortfall in the  defense budget . Defense spending is being
cut, even though the U.K. is engaged in two separate conflicts,
as the government seeks to balance the public finances.  Last year the government said it would order fewer, cheaper
planes for one new  aircraft carrier  and station only helicopters
on another to reduce costs. It scrapped its existing carrier
fleet, leaving its armed forces without the ability to launch
carrier-based plane strikes for 10 years.  Defense Secretary  Liam Fox  said in March that savings
already identified for the current fiscal year had fallen short
of the target set in the Strategic Defense and Security Review
last October. His ministry has now moved on to examining its
planning assumptions for the year 2012-13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  