-- 
Uma Thurman, Elton John Browse Luxury Fair as Rolls-Royce Sells

-- B y   S c o t t   R e y b u r n
-- 
2011-07-04T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/uma-thurman-elton-john-browse-luxury-art-fair-as-asprey-rolls-royce-sells.html
A custom-made Rolls-Royce, a pair of
earrings by the jeweler JAR and a Lucian Freud drawing were
among items selling for more than $600,000 at a  London  fair that
combines art and antiques with luxury consumer goods.  The second annual  Masterpiece London , featuring more than
160 dealerships, runs until 9 p.m. today in a temporary
structure at the Royal Hospital, the venue of the Chelsea Flower
Show. Prince Harry,  Uma Thurman ,  Oprah Winfrey  and Elton John
were among those spotted by dealers during the first few days of
the week-long fair.  The event is modeled on the European Fine Art Fair in
Maastricht, with the addition of contemporary brands such as
 Ruinart  champagne and  Vacheron Constantin  watches. It aims to
appeal to London’s international residents and summer visitors
at a time when cash-rich individuals are looking to invest in
tangible assets that hold their value.  “Masterpiece is on the map now,’’ Martin Travis, director
of the London-based jeweler  Symbolic & Chase , said in an
interview. “A number of clients flew in just for the fair.”  Symbolic & Chase sold a 1930s brooch with a yellow diamond
weighing 47 carats and a pair of natural pearl and diamond
earrings by JAR of Paris. Each priced at more than $2 million,
both sold to Middle Eastern buyers among the 5,000-strong crowd
at the preview.  Rolls-Royce Motor Cars Ltd. found an international London-
based buyer -- subject to the signing of the contract -- for a
Phantom Drophead Coupe, bespoke-built in Mazarine Blue for the
Masterpiece fair. The car, priced at 400,000 pounds, included an
Asprey jewelry box in the glove compartment.  Freud, Caro  A Freud portrait drawing priced at 850,000 pounds and a
1960s Anthony Caro metal floor sculpture at more than 200,000
pounds were among sales by London-based 20th century-art
specialists  Hazlitt Holland-Hibbert .  The fair’s venue was created by  Stabilo International BV ,
which constructs the booths at Tefaf in Maastricht.  Masterpiece 2011 includes 50 more dealers than at last
year’s inaugural fair in June. Then the event coincided with
 Sotheby’s (BID)  and Christie’s International’s auctions of
Impressionist and modern art. This year it overlaps with the
views of the auction houses’ Old Master sales and with London
dealers’ paintings and drawings promotions.  “It’s a shopping mall for luxury art consumers,’’ said
Floris van der Ven, director of the Netherlands-based dealership
 Vanderven & Vanderven . He sold a pair of Kangxi-dynasty vases to
a Chinese collector for 500,000 pounds ($804,000).  Caring Catering  Van der Ven, a veteran of 20 years of art fairs, praised
the event’s mix of historic and contemporary products and
catering provided by  Richard Caring ’s Urban Caprice group.  The London-based dealers  Butchoff Antiques  sold a lady’s
dressing table that had belonged to one of the wives of Indian
aristocrat the Nizam of Hyderabad for 175,000 pounds.  There were few confirmed big-ticket sales among specialists
in Old Master paintings and museum-quality antiques. A number of
dealers, some of whom had paid between 40,000 pounds and 50,000
pounds for their stand, were disappointed by the level of
footfall at the fair after the first two days. Some suggested
the July timing of the event was too late.  There were no reported takers for a two-seater World War II
Spitfire, with a documented service record dating back to the
1940s, which had a guide price of 8 million pounds.  (Scott Reyburn writes about the art market for Muse, the
arts and culture section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed
are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Scott Reyburn in London at  sreyburn@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 