-- 
Turning Scots Into Green Saudis Spurs EON, Iberdrola Snakes

-- B y   R o d n e y   J e f f e r s o n
-- 
2011-07-05T12:12:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/turning-scots-into-green-saudis-spurs-eon-iberdrola-sea-snakes.html
Above the entrance to a converted
school in the Orkney Islands, off the northern tip of Scotland,
a line from  John F. Kennedy  is inscribed on the wall: “We need
people who can dream of things that never were.”  Beyond the portals of the  European Marine Energy Centre ,
researchers are seeking to transform this island archipelago
into a global hub of the renewable age. Situated where the  North
Sea and Atlantic Ocean  collide, a maritime crossroads that the
Vikings featured in their sagas, companies such as EON AG and
 Iberdrola SA (IBE)  are today drawn to Orkney as a test bed for the
latest wave and tidal power technologies.  Nowhere in the world conducts more research into marine
energy than Scotland, whose countrymen invented the telephone,
industrial steam engine and television. Scotland’s nationalist
government aims to harness that talent for innovation to the
country’s natural resources to lead the way on wave and tidal
energy just as Saudi Arabia has with global oil production.  “We’re not trying to put the first Scot on the moon, this
is doable,”  Neil Kermode , the European Marine Energy Centre’s
head the past six years, said at his office in the Orcadian town
of Stromness, a 90-minute ferry ride from mainland Scotland.
“There aren’t many energy revolutions that come round in
anybody’s lifetime, but this is one.”  Power Potential  The seas around Scotland have the potential to provide up
to 25 percent of  Europe ’s tidal power and 10 percent of its wave
power, according to  Scottish Development International , the
government body charged with fostering investment.  Politicians from U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservative Party, which trails in third as a political force
in Scotland, industry executives and academics say Scottish
First Minister Alex Salmond’s vow to secure Scotland’s place as
the green energy powerhouse of Europe is reaching too far.  “The question is whether it is affordable and realistic,”
 Gordon Walkden , a professor of geosciences at the University of
Aberdeen, the hub of the North Sea oil industry, said by phone.
“Would our budget allow us to throw unlimited money at it like
the Americans did when they decided to put a man on the moon?
It’s not a dissimilar challenge.”  Salmond pledged that megawatts generated from the sea will
help make Scotland’s electricity 100 percent come from renewable
sources by 2020, the loftiest goal of any European nation.
Scottish Energy Minister Fergus Ewing is meeting Kermode in
Stromness today for an update on marine power.  Red Snakes  Among the companies developing fledgling marine-energy
projects in and around the Orkneys are EON,  Germany ’s largest
utility, and Scottish Power Ltd., part of Iberdrola of  Spain ,
the world’s biggest renewable energy producer, plus a  group 
including investment bank  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and International Power
Plc, and  Scottish & Southern Energy Plc. (SSE)   Test projects include red snake-like generators made for
EON and Scottish Power by Edinburgh-based  Pelamis Wave Power ,
which has raised 45 million pounds ($72.5 million) from
investors such as New York-based  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s
largest money manager, and Norway’s  Norsk Hydro ASA (NHY)  to develop
its technology.  The Scottish Power machine is due to head to Orkney by the
end of August, Max Carcas, Pelamis’s business development
director, said yesterday. It will work in tandem with the EON
equipment, Scottish Power spokesman Paul Ferguson said from
Glasgow yesterday.  Pentland Firth  Research in the Orkneys and the Pentland Firth will help
unlock 6 billion pounds of investment, Salmond said in a May 18
speech on his renewable-energy policy. The firth is a 20-mile-
long, eight-mile-wide strip of water dividing the islands with
the mainland.  To achieve the green energy target, Salmond is challenging
Cameron’s government to cede the rights to the seabed. At
present, every company developing marine energy projects must
pay rent to the  Crown Estate , the body that’s administered the
monarchy’s assets in  Scotland  since 1832.  All revenue --  13.1 million pounds  from Scotland in the
year ended March 31, 2010, -- goes to the U.K. Treasury in
 London . Salmond, whose Scottish National Party won a second term
in May 5 elections, wants that money to stay in Scotland.  “It would be preposterous if the revenue from offshore
renewables didn’t benefit the communities alongside them,”
Richard Lochhead, the minister responsible for negotiations with
the U.K. on the Crown Estate, said in an interview. “We don’t
want the same mistakes as we made with oil and gas.”  Crown Estate  Scotland is waiting for the U.K. government to respond to
its plan to take control over the Crown Estate, a spokeswoman
for Lochhead said yesterday. Salmond put forward more  detailed
proposals  on June 22, focusing on the seabed and development of
offshore renewable energy.  In Orkney, which benefits from  North Sea  oil jobs through
the  Flotta terminal , the prospect of a bonanza based on marine
energy isn’t obvious, with testing taking place under the sea
and the boats moving in and out of Stromness and Kirkwall more
for fishing and scuba diving.  France ’s Alstom SA, the world’s third-largest power-
equipment maker, bought a 40 percent stake in the Scottish wave
technology developer AWS Ocean Energy Ltd. on June 21. AWS is
developing the Archimedes Wave Swing system, and it plans to
test a full-size prototype in Scotland next year.  New Piers  Orkney Islands Council  is spending 14 million pounds on
port infrastructure, including the development of piers that can
accommodate marine energy companies launching their equipment.  “You look at the wave and tidal potential input into
Scotland’s energy, it’s not on the same scale as  Saudi Arabia  by
any means, however in terms of wave and tidal energy what’s
happening in Orkney now, the technology is there, it’s being
developed,” Peter Tipler, 26, a consultant at  Xodus Group  and
chairman of the  Orkney Renewable Energy Forum , said in an
interview at his Stromness office.  The Orkneys, population 20,000, comprise about 70 islands,
19 of which are inhabited, with most people living in the towns
of Kirkwall and Stromness on the largest island, known locally
as the “mainland.”  Already, Orkney could be powered by wind if it was able to
store electricity, the municipality said. Yet the potential of
Orkney’s marine power isn’t always obvious, especially in June,
the month most Orcadians will tell you is the best to visit to
catch the  summer days  that last as long as 20 hours.  Scapa Flow  Most of Orkney is undulating green fields and the main
industry is beef farming, along with crab fishing and making
cheese. The arable land attracted Neolithic dwellers who built
the Stone Age settlement of  Skara Brae , a UN World Heritage
site, and Vikings, who converted to Christianity and founded the
12th-century St. Magnus Cathedral in Kirkwall.  For the nascent marine  energy industry , the area has two
main selling points, according to Kermode and Stephen Hagan, who
heads the Orkney Islands municipality.  Firstly, it’s the most northerly point of Britain’s
national grid, allowing the electricity generated from the sea
to enter the power market without the need for costly cables to
be laid. It also has a 50 square-mile natural harbor called
Scapa Flow, where the Germans scuttled their World War I naval
fleet. A base for the Royal Navy, it was sealed off with
barriers built at the behest of  Winston Churchill  in 1940 after
Germany sank another warship, this time a British one.  Jewel in Crown  On one side of the barrier the sea is choppy, evidence of
the potential of the waters. On the other, it’s calm, allowing
the industry to build infrastructure to house its equipment.  “You can’t underestimate the importance of Scapa Flow,
it’s the jewel in our crown,” said Hagan, 57, a Northern
Irishman who moved to Orkney 25 years ago to run his wife’s
family farm. “There’s always been the feeling in Orkney that
marine renewables is the big opportunity, but when that would
happen we didn’t really know,” he said at his office in the
town of Kirkwall, home to about 40 percent of the islanders.  Salmond’s SNP sees wresting control of the Crown Estate’s
assets in Scotland as key to realizing that aim.  With cross-party support building in the Scottish
Parliament, Salmond may have more success than with a parallel
plan to carve up North Sea oil revenue if he wins an
independence referendum planned for within the next five years.  “It’s quite a robust story to be able to sell to the
voter,” said Ben Warren, head of renewable energy at Ernst &
Young in London. “The jury is out in terms of the size of the
prize. If Scotland can get there first, one would expect the
investment would flow to where the market is most dynamic.”  Job Creator  The  Edinburgh legislature , reestablished in 1999 after a
hiatus of three centuries, has power over policy areas such as
education, health and justice, while foreign and defense policy
plus broader economic and energy matters are reserved for
Westminster in London.  Salmond, 56, said in an interview while campaigning in
March that his government planned to “engineer the 21st
century” using wind and waves, and the green energy industry
would create 130,000 jobs. His target for 2020 is to generate
twice as much electricity as Scotland needs.  So far, Scotland derives about 30 percent of its
electricity from renewable sources such as wind, hydro, marine,
biomass and energy-from-waste. While Scotland seeks to increase
that to 100 percent by 2020, the target is 35 percent for
Germany, where  Chancellor Angela Merkel  ordered her government
to speed up the exit from nuclear power after the explosion at
Fukushima in  Japan . The Scottish government, unlike the U.K., is
also anti-nuclear.  Alchemy to Industry  Scotland may generate all its electricity needs from
renewable sources in nine years, though the bulk of it will come
from wind rather than waves, Kermode, 52, said.  The equipment now being tested, including the generator
made for  EON , can produce 1.5 megawatts of electricity. The goal
for marine is 1,600 megawatts by 2020. One Pelamis prototype can
produce 0.75 megawatt.  Marine energy is at least four years away from producing
power on an industrial scale, and the European Marine Energy
Centre puts the cost of taking a project from the drawing board
to the sea at about 40 million pounds.  “That bit of alchemy of turning sea water into electricity
has been done,” Kermode said. “Now what we’ve got to do is to
industrialize it and do it reliably, at the right quality and
down to the right price. The lead is there, it’s ours to lose.”  As  Kennedy told members  of the Irish parliament in 1963:
“The problems of the world cannot possibly be solved by
skeptics or cynics whose horizons are limited by the obvious
realities.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodney Jefferson in Edinburgh at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Coulter at   tcoulter@bloomberg.net  