-- 
Luxury’s Not Enough for London Homebuyers to Outdo Neighbors

-- B y   C h r i s   S p i l l a n e
-- 
2011-07-05T08:59:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/luxury-s-not-enough-for-elite-london-homebuyers-to-top-neighbors.html
The price of a luxury home in central
 London  can jump as much as 3,000 pounds ($4,800) a square foot
with the help of a pair of white gloves costing a few pounds.  Houses and apartments described as luxury or prime in the
U.K. capital can fetch from 1,000 pounds a square foot to more
than 4,000 pounds. The widening disparity prompted property
broker Knight Frank LLP to define the touches like a white-
gloved doorman that separate truly elite from merely prime.  “One man’s luxury is another man’s commonplace,” said
Stephan Miles-Brown, the London-based firm’s head of residential
development. “People say I’ve got a wine cooler and a screening
room; developers are saying: ‘what else can we offer to attract
them?’”  Luxury-home values have rebounded faster than those for
other London properties, reaching a record last month, as the
pound’s weakness attracted overseas purchasers.  Knight Frank 
estimates that prices for prime residences start at 2 million
pounds, though you may have to pay more for one with a wine
cellar, home cinema, squash court or health spa -- not to
mention accommodation for the staff.  At the bottom end of Knight Frank’s five tiers of luxury, a
buyer should expect no less than a 24-hour concierge team,
secure underground parking and a terrace or balcony. Prices are
seen increasing by 500 pounds a square foot with amenities such
as a wine cooler, slab marble and a ceiling at least 2.7 meters
(8.9 feet) high.  ‘Layers of Value’  “What drives value is location, but also product, views,
architecture and amenity,” said Ed Lewis, director of new
development sales at  Savills Plc. (SVS)  “All these things add to the
layers of value.” Savills is Knight Frank’s biggest competitor.  Six apartments at One Hyde Park, the luxury-condominium
complex in the affluent Knightsbridge neighborhood, sold for an
average of 6,000 pounds a square foot last year. That includes a
view of the west London park, service from the Mandarin Oriental
hotel next door and hand-painted silk wallpaper. The building
was designed by Rogers Stirk Harbour and Partners, the firm that
worked with  Renzo Piano  on Paris’s Pompidou Center.  A one-bedroom duplex in the development went for 9.85
million pounds, according to the  Land Registry .  “Luxury isn’t enough,” Miles-Brown said by telephone.
People using “words like prime, super-prime and uber-prime are
looking for ways to redefine the word luxury.”  Gaggenau Kitchen  Having a health club, resident’s wine cellar and screening
room with general-release movies helps push prices into the
3,000 pounds-a-square-foot bracket. Add 500 pounds for a
limousine service, a  Gaggenau  kitchen and a squash court.  Top-end lavishness, starting at 4,000 pounds a square foot,
will be in an iconic building designed by a famous architect,
such as Piano’s Shard skyscraper in London, according to Knight
Frank. It will include a top international hotel brand and spa
operator, stores and restaurants. A white-glove doorman will
serve at the internationally recognized address.  “You don’t know what you want until you’re offered it,”
Miles-Brown said.  The 72-story Shard will have about 12 apartments on floors
53 to 65. The tower will also have restaurants and offices as
well as hotel rooms operated by Shangri-La Asia Ltd., Asia’s
biggest luxury hotelier by market value. The building is under
construction in south London’s Southwark neighborhood and
apartments aren’t yet being offered for sale.  Improved Outlook  Luxury properties in the city costing an average of 3.7
million pounds rose 8.1 percent in June from a year earlier,
Knight Frank said last week, pushing its Prime Central London
Index to a record. That prompted the broker to predict a gain of
9 percent for the whole of the year, up from an earlier forecast
of 3 percent.  London has luxury-home developments valued at about 21
billion pounds in the pipeline, EC Harris LLP said yesterday.
Investors and developers plan to build 9,000 prime apartments
and houses by the end of the decade, according to the consulting
firm, which is based in the city.  Rising demand is extending the upper end of the housing
market beyond the central districts. Three penthouse apartments
at Barratt Development Plc’s Putney Square development were the
first to sell for more than 1,000 pounds a square foot outside
of the city center, said Gary Patrick, regional sales director
at the London-based company.  Barratt, the U.K.’s largest homebuilder by volume, sold the
 penthouse apartments  overlooking communal gardens for about
1,100 pounds a square foot compared with an average of 730
pounds a square foot for the other 157 units on the site.  “The specification and design maximizes your revenue, it
doesn’t create the revenue,” Patrick said by phone. “If you
beef up the concierge service and install a better quality
kitchen, those bits and pieces can nudge up your achievable
price.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Spillane in London at 
 cspillane3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at   ablackman@bloomberg.net . 