-- 
Volkswagen Says Secures Majority in MAN as Carmaker Pursues Truck Merger

-- B y   A n d r e a s   C r e m e r
-- 
2011-07-04T09:43:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/volkswagen-secures-majority-in-man-as-it-pursues-truck-merger.html
Volkswagen AG (VOW)  moved closer to its
goal of unseating Daimler AG as Europe’s largest truckmaker by
securing a majority in  MAN SE (MAN)  after more shareholders than
expected took advantage of a takeover offer.  Europe’s largest carmaker will own 55.9 percent of MAN’s
 voting rights  after the deal closes, the Wolfsburg, Germany-
based company said today in a  statement . VW sought 40 percent of
voting rights in May when it started the bid.  “It’s a clear positive for VW,” said Adam Hull, an
analyst with WestLB in  London  who recommends buying the stock.
“The more shares they got, the better.”  The maker of the Golf hatchback triggered a mandatory bid
for MAN by raising its stake to 30.5 percent from 29.9 percent
on May 9 to pave the way for closer cooperation between the
German truckmaker and  Sweden ’s  Scania AB (SCVB) , a unit of VW. A three-
way truck alliance may save as much as 1 billion euros ($1.45
billion) in annual costs, according to VW.  MAN fell as much as 2.23 euros, or 2.3 percent, to 93.07
euros and was down 1.4 percent at 11:13 a.m. in  Frankfurt . VW
rose as much as 0.7 percent.  “Volkswagen is more than pleased with the result” of the
tender, Chief Executive Officer  Martin Winterkorn  said in the
statement. As a result of the higher stake, the goal of
integrating MAN, Scania and VW’s own commercial vehicle
operations is “moving closer,” he said.  Ahead of Volvo  The transaction requires regulatory approval. The
combination of MAN and Scania would leapfrog Gothenburg, Sweden-
based Volvo AB and Daimler to create  Europe ’s largest
truckmaker. MAN and Scania together had 30 percent of the
European heavy-truck market last year, according to the European
Automobile Manufacturers’ Association. Volvo and Stuttgart,
Germany-based Daimler each had 21 percent.  WestLB’s Hull estimates that VW will have 21 billion euros
in net cash at its automotive division by the end of the year.  The VW transaction contrasts with a similar German deal
struck in late 2008, when  Schaeffler Group  acquired more shares
in Continental AG than expected in a bid made as financial
markets collapsed. The deal saddled Schaeffler, an auto-parts
supplier, with a level of debt that has delayed a planned
merger.  Standard & Poor’s  has a negative outlook on VW’s credit,
which it rates as A-, the fourth-lowest investment grade.
Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have stable outlooks
on the company. S&P rates MAN at BBB+, one notch below VW.  Final Days  “Given VW’s huge automotive net cash position and low
automotive debt-to-earnings ratio, the company obviously has the
financial resources and credit metrics headroom necessary” to
complete the deal, said Sven Kreitmair, an analyst at Unicredit
in Munich. “We expect MAN in this case now to get upgraded to
VW’s credit-rating level, rather than VW to get downgraded.”  Investors took the offer after MAN’s share price declined
below VW’s bid in the final days of the tender, which ended on
June 29. The stock was above the 95-euro bid when the tender
started on May 31. MAN fell to as low as 91.82 euros on June 28.  Ferdinand Piech, who is chairman of both VW and MAN, is
pushing the Munich-based truckmaker and Scania to reduce
spending as part of a strategy to surpass Toyota Motor Corp. as
the world’s biggest automaker by 2018.  VW took a controlling stake in Soedertaelje, Sweden-based
Scania in 2008. The increased holding in MAN may allow the two
truckmakers to get regulatory approval to share business
information and work more closely together.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andreas Cremer in Berlin at 
 acremer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  