-- 
Wal-Mart, Ikea Lead Retailers’ Push in China Land-Buying as Rentals Surge

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-07-04T16:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/wal-mart-ikea-lead-retailers-push-in-china-land-buying-as-rentals-surge.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  and Ikea Group
are leading foreign retailers that are buying land in China to
develop their stores, abandoning a decade-long strategy of
leasing as rents climb.  Wal-Mart, the world’s largest retailer, bought sites in
northeastern Dalian for the first time last year, while Inter
Ikea Centre Group, the developer part-owned by  Sweden ’s Ikea,
invested $1.2 billion to build 510,000 square meters (5.5
million square feet) of malls as the largest home-furnishings
company expands in the world’s fastest-growing major economy.  Foreign retailers are buying properties as rents soar after
a 4 trillion yuan ($619 billion) stimulus package in 2008 helped
revive economic growth. Retail rents in Beijing’s downtown
Wangfujing district almost doubled in the second quarter this
year from 2007, while in  Shanghai ’s West Nanjing Road shopping
strip they jumped more than 50 percent in the same period,
according to  Cushman & Wakefield  Inc.  “It’s becoming more and more difficult for them to get
extraordinary leasing terms because Chinese landlords are
becoming more sophisticated,” said  Michael Klibaner , head of
 China  research at Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. in Shanghai, referring
to leases from 10 years to 15 years. “The economics of doing
retail development look very attractive now if you can get the
land.”  Demand for retail space helped drive a 42 percent surge in
commercial real estate investments in China last year, marking
the start of an “era” for malls, according to Cushman &
Wakefield, a New York-based real estate services firm.  ‘Very Long-Term’  Wal-Mart, which has 339 stores in more than 120 Chinese
cities, may keep buying land in anticipation that more people in
the nation of 1.3 billion will move into cities where it plans
to open more outlets, said Ed Chan, chief executive officer of
the company’s China operations. The Bentonville, Arkansas-based
retailer will either purchase properties or tie up with a
developer for new shopping centers, he said.  “When we open a store, we look at a very long term, many,
many years,” said Beijing-based Chan. “Urbanization and the
creation of the middle class will be still quite robust for the
next 10, 20 years with additional cities being created.”  About 170 million people moved to cities in the last 10
years, the biggest urbanization in history, according to the
Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. China aims to increase its
proportion of those living in cities from 47.5 percent to 51.5
percent by 2015, it said in its latest five-year plan.  ‘Right Conditions’  Owning more of the buildings its stores operate in is in
line with Stockholm-based Ikea’s “global approach,” said
Gillian Drakeford, the company’s China retail president. Ikea
and its local partner own eight of its nine stores in China and
lease the location in the southern city of  Guangzhou . It plans
to buy more properties for new outlets, Drakeford said.  “This allows Ikea to lead the process and to ensure that
the right conditions are secured for the stores,” Shanghai-
based Drakeford said. “Ikea’s approach to store establishment
is long-term with substantial investment in existing and new
markets.”  Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K’s biggest retailer, formed a second,
$280 million joint venture in March to develop three shopping
malls in China with HSBC’s Specialist Investments Ltd. and  Metro
Holdings Ltd. (METRO)  The malls in the southeastern cities of Fuzhou and
Xiamen, and Shenyang in the north, will generate 2.47 million
square feet of space with Tesco hypermarkets as the anchor
stores, according to an HSBC statement at the time.  Arriving in China  International retailers started arriving in China in the
mid 1990s as the nation worked toward opening its economy to
foreign investment in the lead up to its entry to the  World
Trade Organization  in 2001. After China relaxed restrictions on
foreign retailers in 2004 to meet WTO pledges, overseas
retailers were allowed to wholly own stores in the country and
restrictions on where they could operate stores were lifted.  Boulogne-Billancourt, France-based Carrefour SA opened
China’s first supermarket in December 1995, while Wal-Mart and
Dusseldorf-based  Metro AG (MEO) ,  Germany ’s biggest retailer, arrived
in 1996, according to their websites. Group Auchan SA of Croix,
 France  arrived in 1999 and Cheshunt, England-based Tesco in 2004,
according to the companies’ websites.  Carrefour, the world’s second-biggest retailer, bought “a
few” sites in China while the majority of locations are leased,
Liao Yan, the company’s spokeswoman in Beijing, said in an e-
mailed statement, declining to give details.  ‘Big-Box’  The plan to develop and own retail space has so far been
limited to the so-called big-box retailers, according to
Colliers International. Those requiring less space, such as
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Gap Inc., will continue to rent, according to the
Seattle-based property broker.  “The profit margin for hypermarkets, which require a large
scale of land, is low, and they are rent-sensitive,” said
Sherman Yeung, Beijing-based director of retail services at
Colliers International North China.  China last year surpassed  Japan  as the world’s second-
biggest economy, and is forecast by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
to eclipse the U.S. by 2018. Urban household income per capita
rose 13.7 percent in 2010 from 2009. The economy expanded 10.3
percent in 2010.  “China is now probably more important to the future of
these companies than it’s ever been,” said Jones Lang’s
Klibaner.  Pulling Out  Some foreign retailers have pulled out amid growing
competition. Richfield, Minnesota-based Best Buy Co., the
world’s largest consumer electronics retailer, closed all its
nine stores in China this year to focus on expanding a more
profitable domestic chain it acquired five years ago.  Chinese supermarket chains have expanded through mergers
and acquisitions amid competition as the country made it easier
for foreign retailers to do business there.  Wumart Stores Inc. (8277) ,
Beijing’s largest supermarket chain, had 123 supermarkets and
390 minimarts by the end of March 31, according to its first-
quarter financial statement, after taking over supermarkets from
a rival and becoming controlling shareholder of another chain.  “More and more foreign hypermarkets are entering the
market and the domestic companies are getting better,” said
Klibaner. “That’s becoming more challenging and that’s one of
the key reasons why they are pursuing development opportunities
now more than in the past.”  ‘Not Worried’  China’s retail sales growth slowed to 16.9 percent in May,
less than the average of the past five years. Borrowing costs
have risen as the central bank raised  interest rates  four times
since October and the government tightened monetary policy to
contain inflation and a surge in  home prices .  Developers also have become more reluctant to sign longer
leases with hypermarket operators such as Wal-Mart and Tesco
because they prefer smaller boutique and high-end stores that
add to the branding of their properties, Colliers’s Yeung said.  Demand for retail space remains strong with new tenants
negotiating for sites at its properties, according to  CapitaLand
Ltd. (CAPL) , the Singapore-based developer with 38 shopping centers in
China, of which 22 are anchored by Wal-Mart.  “There are so many other retailers we work with,” said
Chief Operating Officer Lim Ming Yan in an interview on June 20.
“In that sense, it doesn’t affect us. I’m not worried” about
retailers building their own properties, he said.  Currency Advantage  Retailers expanding into second- and third-tier cities,
which are less affluent than metropolitan areas including
Beijing and Shanghai, may get government incentives to buy land
to develop stores, said Richard Ding, chief executive officer of
Royal China Group, a Shanghai-based investment and consulting
company in retail and property.  “They may get some good conditions in smaller cities
because the local governments love foreign brands to be there,”
Ding said.  Foreign retailers may be getting an added gain from
property investments because they are in the local currency,
which is expected to appreciate to 2.5 percent to 6.3 against
the  U.S. dollar  by the end of this year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The yuan has increased 26 percent since
the government first scrapped its peg to the dollar in July 2005
amid pressure from its trading partners.  “Foreign retailers are also realizing that it makes sense
economically to hold yuan-denominated assets in China, which
allows them to enjoy extra capital gain from their investment,”
Ding said.  --Bonnie Cao, Michael Wei. Editors: Linus Chua, Andreea Papuc  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3035 or
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Wei in Shanghai at +86-21-6104-3044 or
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  