-- 
Sino-Forest Shares Surge After Wellington Management Discloses 11.5% Stake

-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e   a n d   M a t t   W a l c o f f
-- 
2011-07-05T20:49:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/wellington-controls-11-5-of-sino-forest-as-timber-producer-s-stock-drops.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese tree-
plantation company accused by a short seller of overstating
timber holdings, rose for a second day after Wellington
Management Co. said it owned an 11.5 percent stake.  Sino-Forest climbed 27 percent in Toronto trading today,
adding to a 30 percent gain yesterday, after the Boston-based
investment firm said in a regulatory filing it held 28.3 million
shares as of June 30. The stake was valued at C$90.7 million
($94.2 million) on that date. Wellington, which  manages  $663
billion, held 79,700 Sino-Forest shares, or 0.03 percent, as of
Dec. 31, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Maybe they know something the bears don’t,” Arthur Salzer, Toronto-based chief executive officer of Northland
Wealth Management, which oversees C$200 million, said yesterday
in a telephone interview.  Sino-Forest plunged 82 percent last month after Muddy
Waters LLC, a research company founded by short seller Carson Block, said in a June 2 report that Sino-Forest overstated its
tree-plantation holdings. Sino-Forest, based in  Hong Kong  and
Mississauga, Ontario, rejected the allegations. Wellington’s
purchase of the Sino-Forest stake suggests it’s the timber
company’s second-largest shareholder, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  ‘Might Be Value’  “If they believe Sino has more licenses than Muddy Waters
thinks they do, there might be value there,” said Salzer, who
said he toured Sino-Forest’s plantations in  China  in 2005 and
doesn’t own the shares.  Sino-Forest has commissioned an independent investigation
and appointed PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP to assist. Sino-Forest
said June 14 the probe won’t be completed for two to three
months.  Sara Sherman, a Wellington spokeswoman, declined to comment
when contacted by phone. Stan Neve, an external spokesman for
Sino-Forest, declined to comment yesterday when contacted by e-
mail.  Wellington, a closely held partnership founded in 1928,
serves as an  investment adviser  to more than 1,950 institutions
in 50 countries, according to its  website . In addition to
managing equity and fixed-income assets worldwide, the firm also
runs alternative and multi-asset investment strategies.  US Airways  Financing  In 2005, Wellington provided financing to allow US Airways
Group Inc. to emerge from bankruptcy and merge with America West
Holdings Corp. Wellington went on to become US Airways’ largest
shareholder before cutting its stake in 2008.  Wellington managers are also responsible for at least an
additional 3.2 percent holding in Sino-Forest through funds sold
by Hartford Financial Services Group Inc., according to
Bloomberg data. Wellington manages some Hartford funds under
sub-advisory agreements.  Sino-Forest climbed C$1.14 to C$5.29 at 4:36 p.m. in
Toronto Stock Exchange trading. The shares, which traded at an
eight-year intraday low of C$1.29 on June 21, have more than
doubled in the last five trading sessions.  “When the stock goes down to C$2, the investor base
totally changes,” Marcus Xu, Vancouver-based director of equity
investments at Genus Capital Management, which oversees C$1.7
billion, said in a telephone interview. “There’s definitely a
lot of value you can argue for just on the simple probability of
 Muddy Waters  being wrong on some of these points.”  ‘Stomach the Risk’  “Right now Sino-Forest could very well be a good bargain
for those investors who have the stomach for the risk,” Eric Yan, who helps manage about C$2.7 billion at Matrix Fund
Management Inc. in Toronto, said in a telephone interview. “But
we need more information from the company and a trustworthy
independent source like PricewaterhouseCoopers.”  Paulson & Co., the hedge fund that had been Sino-Forest’s
largest holder, said last month in a letter to clients it sold
its entire 12.5 percent stake and had lost C$462 million since
May 31 on Sino-Forest. Davis Selected Advisors LP held 30.9
million shares, or 12.6 percent of Sino-Forest, as of April 29,
according to the Bloomberg data.  “I’m just as certain today that the company is a fraud and
that the stock is a zero as I was on the day that we
published,” Block said last week in an interview with Erik
Schatzker on Bloomberg Television’s “InBusiness With Margaret
Brennan.”  Sino-Forest unit Greenheart Group Ltd. gained 19 percent to
HK$1.34 today in Hong Kong.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Walcoff in Toronto at 
 Mwalcoff1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 