-- 
ThyssenKrupp Said to Have Citigroup, Deutsche Bank for Unit Sale

-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d ,   Z i j i n g   W u   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 
2011-07-04T16:29:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-07-04/thyssenkrupp-is-said-to-pick-citigroup-deutsche-bank-for-steel-unit-sale.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  is likely to work
with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  on a plan to divest or
sell shares in its stainless steel unit as Germany’s largest
metal maker cuts debt, said two people familiar with the matter.  The division may be valued at as much as 4 billion euros
($5.8 billion) including debt, said one of the people, who asked
not to be identified as the information isn’t public. No
contracts have been signed with the banks, the people said.
ThyssenKrupp said in May that it would separate Stainless Global
from the rest of the company.  Chief Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger plans to sell
businesses with 10 billion euros in sales, about a quarter of
the company’s revenue, to cut borrowings and fund growth in
emerging markets. The steelmaker was saddled with debt after
building plants in Brazil and the U.S.  Erik Walner, a spokesman for ThyssenKrupp, declined to
comment.  ThyssenKrupp’s decision follows a similar move by
 ArcelorMittal (MT) , the world’s biggest steelmaker, which separated
its Aperam unit in January after years of discussions with
European peers failed to bring about a merger of their stainless
operations.  European stainless-steel producers have struggled to cope
with higher raw-material costs as prices of the finished metal
have declined 7.6 percent in the past year, according to Metal
Bulletin data. Nickel, an ingredient in the alloy, has risen 24
percent on the London Metal Exchange in the period.  ThyssenKrupp said in May that it has agreed with worker
representatives to maintain a “notable” minority stake in its
stainless steel unit following a possible initial public
offering of the division. Hiesinger, who spoke to reporters at
the company’s headquarters in Essen,  Germany , said the company
didn’t set a specific timeline for keeping the holding.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  