-- Apple’s IPhone Crowds Signal Record Debut for Handsets
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/apple-s-iphone-crowds-signal-record-debut-for-handsets.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is poised to announce
record opening-weekend sales as throngs of excited customers
waited through long lines in Sydney,  Tokyo ,  London  and  San
Francisco  to pick up the latest iPhones.  Sales for the iPhone 5s and 5c started yesterday with
crowds in Sydney and extended through stores in the U.S.,
 Canada ,  China ,  France , Germany,  Hong Kong , Japan, Puerto Rico,
 Singapore  and the U.K. In London, the line at the Regent Street
Apple store stretched for a mile.  The demand has  analysts  predicting Apple will sell 6
million to 7.75 million iPhones over the weekend, topping last
year’s debut-weekend record of 5 million. The projections, along
with limited supplies of gold iPhone 5s models, shows pent-up
demand for Apple gadgets and also underscores how the Cupertino,
California-based company has maintained customer loyalty -- even
as sales and profit growth slowed and shares fell amid
competition with  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and others.  “The lines at all the stores were very good,” said  Walter Piecyk , an analyst at BTIG LLC in  New York , who estimates Apple
will sell more than 6 million handsets over the weekend. “The
strong turnout was very positive for Apple.”  Ben Reitzes , an analyst at Barclays Plc, said sales may top
7 million,  while Citigroup Inc.’s Glen Yeung predicted as many
as 7.75 million. Apple typically puts out a press release the
Monday after iPhone sales begin.  Scarce Supplies  Whether Apple can surpass the 5 million smartphones sold
during last year’s iPhone debut depends on whether there is
enough supply, said Piecyk, noting there were many sellouts.  Natalie Kerris , a spokeswoman for Apple, said demand for
the new iPhones was “incredible” and that they were sold out
or in limited supply at some stores.  Yet Apple's stock  fell  1 percent to $467.41 in New York
yesterday. The shares have slid 12 percent this year, compared 
with a  20 percent  gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  In New York, many iPhone models were gone after customers
lined up around the block to get into Apple’s flagship Fifth
Avenue store. In Munich, about 2,000 gathered to buy the new
handsets. Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  and other
executives visited customers at stores in Palo Alto,  California ,
near the company’s headquarters.  “I started lining up five days ago,” said Sachihisa
Saishiki, 45, who has camped outside the Tokyo store at least
six times previously. “I was with a group of 10, and we took
turns going out for food, going back home to take showers. I
spent time sleeping out here, too, lying down on a cardboard
box,” he said after buying a gold iPhone 5s.  This was also the first time Apple rolled out its  flagship
product  for sale in China on the same day as elsewhere,
abandoning the usual three-month delay, as the company seeks to
lure new customers in the world’s largest mobile-phone market.  China Debut  “Last year, if you wanted an iPhone 5 right after the
launch, it was very expensive because you had to buy one that
had been brought in from Hong Kong or the U.S.,” said Max
Zhang, a 20-year-old student, among the roughly 50 people
waiting at the Wangfujing store in Beijing. “Now that I can buy
it directly in the Apple Store, it’s cheaper,” said Zhang, who
bought an iPhone 5s  While Apple didn’t radically change the iPhone’s design,
the addition of new colors proved popular. The gold model
emerged as the hottest seller, with Apple saying on its  website 
that online orders of those models won’t ship until next month.
The white-silver and black-gray models could ship within 10
days, Apple said.  “It’s the one distinct model where you can tell it’s the
new one,” said Vincent Villalba, 25, of New York, who began
waiting in line at the Fifth Avenue store at 3 a.m. to get a
gold version.  New Features  The crowds show how Apple’s strategy of building carefully-designed products that integrate hardware and software has come
to dominate the technology industry. As shoppers were snapping
up iPhones, Blackberry Ltd. -- whose keyboard-wielding phones
once were the handset of choice -- announced it was cutting
4,500 jobs.  The iPhone 5s features a new fingerprint reader, camera and
faster processor. It costs $199 to $399, depending on the amount
of memory, with a two-year contract. Without a contract, the
phone costs at least $649.  For the less-expensive iPhone 5c, Apple took last year’s
iPhone 5 and mostly repackaged it in a new plastic casing that’s
offered in five different colors. It costs $99 to $199 with a
two-year contract, or $549 without one.  “Visited Retail Stores in Palo Alto today,” Cook said in
his first  post  on Twitter yesterday. “Seeing so many happy
customers reminds us of why we do what we do.”  Software Flaws  This week, Apple also released the new iOS 7 mobile
operating system for iPhone and iPad. Some customers experienced
long delays downloading the software, which includes sweeping
graphical changes such as a new look for e-mail, camera, text
messaging and other applications. Apple also is fixing a
security flaw regarding the passcode lock screen in iOS 7, said
 Trudy Muller , a spokeswoman for Apple.  With the iPhone debut, Apple’s performance in China is
particularly important given the size of the market. Analysts
have questioned whether the price of the iPhone 5c -- more than
the equivalent of $700 because of tariffs -- will be too
expensive for Chinese customers.  A survey of 25 of the earliest consumers at the Beijing
store found 22 of them were there for the more expensive 5s
model, compared with three for the 5c.  On Par  “Tim Cook is now finally treating China as important as
the U.S.,” said Tony Yu, 28. The local government bureaucrat
woke up at 2 a.m. and drove more than 300 kilometers (186 miles)
from Qinhuangdao to be at the Beijing store by 6 a.m. “It costs
me about one month’s pay, but it’s worth it.”  In some places, there was so much excitement over the new
iPhones that people started camping out in front of Apple stores
days ago, evoking scenes from earlier product introductions --
even though the gadget is now six years old.  At Tokyo’s Ginza area store there were about 800 people,
including some dressed as Batman and Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs 
in a face mask, jeans and black turtleneck.  At the Paris Opera store, dozens of people had gathered by
7:30 p.m. the previous night, prepared to wait even with a
weather forecast for rain. Some had blankets and chairs.  Regent Street  Outside Apple’s Regent Street store in London, the line was
about 1 mile (1.6 kilometers) yesterday morning. Said Alkadi, a
52-year-old dentist, had flown from  Jordan  to buy new iPhones
for his kids because they will only go on sale in the country
later.  “They can’t wait that long,” he said. “When I get home I
will be dancing in the street because I completed the mission!”  Every  iPhone  release is critical for Apple because the
product accounts for about half its revenue. Since the iPhone 5
started selling last year, the company has faced increased
competition from rivals including Samsung, which has become the
world’s largest maker of smartphones by offering customers a
wider variety of designs and prices. IPhone sales have trailed
the broader smartphone market the past two quarters.  Samsung uses Google Inc.’s Android operating software,
which accounted for 79 percent of worldwide smartphone shipments
last quarter, compared with 13 percent for Apple’s iOS,
according to research firm IDC. While reviewers such as the Wall
Street Journal’s Walt Mossberg and Bloomberg’s  Rich Jaroslovsky 
praised the iPhone 5s, they wrote that Samsung’s devices offer
close competition.  Apple fans in New York got similar advice. “Buy an
Android!” a passing motorist yelled at the shoppers lined up at
the Fifth Avenue store.  Loyalists weren’t fazed. “I’m a huge Apple fanboy, there’s
no other way to put it,” said Joe Engo, who added that he has
used the same American-flag folding chair to wait in line to buy
every iPhone on opening day since 2007.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in San Francisco at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  