-- Harvard Aims for Record $6.5 Billion in Fundraising by 2018
-- B y   J o h n   L a u e r m a n
-- 2013-09-21T20:44:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/harvard-fundraising-effort-aims-for-record-6-5-billion-by-2018.html
Harvard University  set a goal to
raise a record $6.5 billion by 2018 to boost education and
research and carry out construction projects across the campus.  Harvard has already received $2.8 billion in donations and
pledges toward its goal in the past two years, during what’s
referred to as a “quiet phase,” Tamara Rogers, vice president
for alumni affairs and development, said in an interview.  The campaign, the biggest set by a U.S. university, will
let Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Harvard expand research and
teaching in engineering, the arts and humanities, along with the
fields of energy, neuroscience and stem cell research, Harvard
Provost Alan Garber said. The university is also renovating
dormitories and resuming construction that stalled after the
financial crisis that began in 2008.  “All around us we see examples of how Harvard helps build
our society and better our world,” Harvard President Drew Faust
said in remarks released at the campaign’s unveiling today. “It
is up to us to make sure that we continue to build, to lead, to
advance in a world almost unimaginably different from the one
our founders inhabited nearly four centuries ago.”  About 45 percent of the money raised will go to research,
faculty and teaching, Harvard said. About 25 percent will be
earmarked for student financial aid; 20 percent for construction
and renovation; and 10 percent to support new initiatives.  Record-Setting  Harvard’s goal eclipses the $6 billion objective set in
2011 by the  University of Southern California  in  Los Angeles .
Fundraisers’ sights may be buoyed by  Stanford University , which
got  $6.23 billion  in donations, beyond its goal of $4.3 billion
in a campaign that ended in 2011, and  Texas A&M University ,
which collected a record $740 million in donations and pledges
in the year ended Aug. 31.  Those results show that big donors who shied from giving
after the financial crisis that began in 2008 are back, said
Donald Fellows, president and chief executive officer of Marts &
Lundy in Lyndhurst,  New Jersey . Gifts of $25 million or more are
becoming more common, he said.  So-called capital campaigns take place over years and
schools can’t control or predict economic conditions during
them, Harvard’s Rogers said.  “The timing now feels as good as it could be,” she said.
“One takes advantage of opportunities, enthusiasm and good
planning and that’s what we’ve done.”  Microsoft Corp. Chairman and Co-Founder Bill Gates, who
dropped out of Harvard after three years to start the company,
and Carlyle Group Co-CEO David M. Rubenstein spoke at the event
about Gates’s record in business and philanthropy. Both are
members of the Giving Pledge, a group that Gates and investor
 Warren Buffett  founded to encourage philanthropy.  14-Year Wait  Harvard’s fundraising effort is its first since 1999, when
the school raised $2.65 billion over seven years. While Harvard
is the richest U.S. school with an  endowment  of $30.7 billion as
of June 2012, the 14-year wait between campaigns is longer than
many schools prefer, said John Lippincott, president of the
Council for Advancement and Support of Education in  Washington .  Fundraising plans were first delayed when former president
 Lawrence Summers  resigned in 2006, and again by the financial
crisis, which affected many schools, Lippincott said. While
about five universities typically start major fundraising
campaigns in an average year, only one school did so in 2009, he
said.  As the demands for operating a top-level university
increase, institutions are scheduling capital campaigns with
greater frequency, said  Tim Seiler , director of The Fund Raising
School at  Indiana University  in Bloomington. The lag between
campaigns is shorter than 10 years at many schools, he said.  Allston Expansion  The recession also affected Harvard’s ambitious plans for
expansion in  Allston , across the river from the main campus in
Cambridge, that began under Summers. The centerpiece of the
plans, a science center expected to cost more than $1 billion to
build, has been delayed as Harvard’s finances have suffered.
Some Allston residents have complained that the development
hiatus has kept their neighborhood in a state of neglect.  Faust has scheduled a resumption of the work on the science
center for next year. In all, Harvard plans to build or renovate
11 buildings in Allston, including a new basketball arena for
its Ivy League championship team.  The university also needs to continue attracting talent,
Faust said. Harvard has already doubled its investment in
financial aid since 2007, and about 60 percent of undergraduates
pay an average of $12,000 to attend, she said.  “This commitment makes Harvard not just more open and
accessible, but a more vibrant educational environment for all
our students,” she said.  Big Gifts  Faust and other officials have spent the last few years
crisscrossing the globe to meet with large donors and secure
gifts that show commitment to the institution.  Recent gifts that will be counted toward Harvard’s 2018
goal include $125 million for the Wyss Institute for
Biologically Inspired Engineering from billionaire Hansjoerg Wyss and $50 million from the Blavatnik Family Foundation to
develop treatments from scientific discoveries.  Preparations like these are essential to a capital
campaign, Lippincott said. Running a $6-billion campaign means
raising $2 million to $3 million a day, he said.  “It kind of takes your breath away,” he said. “You get
there because you have some very large gifts made to the
campaign that will ensure its success.”  Fundraising Success  The campaign will also help Harvard recruit top teachers
and researchers. About half of the university’s $4 billion
operating budget for fiscal 2012 went to employee pay and
benefits, according to the  annual report . About 5.5 percent of
Harvard’s endowment, or $1.4 billion, was spent on Harvard’s
operations in 2012.  Recent results show Harvard’s fundraising success. Donor
pledges in the 2012 fiscal year totaled $909 million, up from
about $758 million in the year earlier period.  Faust laid out priorities for the campaign in a May letter
to staff, students and alumni. While the overarching theme is
“generation of new knowledge,” a series of recent reports from
Harvard indicated that the arts and humanities need shoring up,
and Faust has put emphasis on gifts for the area.  Glenn Hutchins , founder of the Silver Lake investment firm, recently
requested that more than half of his 2012 gift of $30 million go
to establish the Hutchins Center for African and African
American Research at Harvard.  “The reason I think people give to Harvard is because of
the things Harvard can do uniquely well,” Garber, the provost,
said. “When you give support to Harvard, you can be confident
that you’ll be supporting the work of faculty who are addressing
the biggest challenges facing the world today.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Lauerman in Boston at 
 jlauerman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  