-- Asian Stocks Had Biggest Weekly Gain Since April on Fed
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-09-21T02:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/asian-stocks-had-biggest-weekly-gain-since-april-on-fed.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the
benchmark regional index gaining for a third week, after the
 Federal Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from cutting stimulus and
Japanese exports surged.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and clothes to retailers
including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., climbed 3.3 percent in Hong
Kong. Newcrest Mining Ltd., Australia’s biggest gold producer,
jumped 9 percent after bullion rebounded for the first time in a
month on the Fed decision. Panasonic Corp., an electronics maker
that gets 48 percent of its sales abroad, gained 4.2 percent.
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. plunged after U.S. regulators
restricted imports from one of the Indian drugmaker’s
facilities, triggering a wave of analyst downgrades.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index climbed 2.6 percent to 140.67
this week. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index touched a record high
after the Fed said it needs more evidence of sustainable
recovery in the  U.S. economy  before slowing the pace of $85
billion in monthly asset purchases.  “The market rallied following the surprise Fed move,”
said  Daphne Roth , Singapore-based head of Asian equity research
at ABN Amro Private Banking, which oversees about $207 billion.
“Maybe the Fed would rather be late in tapering stimulus than
be too early and set whole economy back. Asian stocks will
probably continue higher since we continue to see quite good
data even from  China . North Asian exporters are benefiting from
improvements in developed economies.”  Japanese Exports  Japan’s Topix index rose 5.3 percent this week to a two-month high, with reports showing the nation’s exports jumped the
most since August 2010 as the trade deficit narrowed.
Australia’s  S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  gained 1.1 percent, touching a
five-year high. New Zealand’s NZX 50 Index climbed 1.7 percent,
reaching a record on Sept. 19.  Singapore ’s Straits Times Index
increased 3.8 percent.  Holidays cut trading this week to four days in  Hong Kong ,
three days in China and  Taiwan , and two in  South Korea . Taiwan’s
Taiex index gained 0.8 percent, while South Korea’s Kospi index
added 0.6 percent. Hong Kong’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  advanced 2.6
percent. The Shanghai Composite Index lost 2 percent.  Emerging markets  across the region surged the most this
week as currencies rebounded after the Fed decision. Indonesia’s
Jakarta Composite Index jumped 4.8 percent and Thailand’s SET
Index rose 6.1 percent. India’s Sensex Index gained 2.7 percent,
paring gains after the nation’s central bank unexpectedly raised
rates to curb inflation.  The Asia-Pacific gauge has rallied 8.8 percent so far this
year amid signs China’s economic growth is stabilizing. It’s
 trading  at 13.7 times estimated earnings, compared with
multiples of 15.5 for the S&P 500 and 14.4 times for the Stoxx
Europe 600 Index, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  China Output  Chinese manufacturing activity continued to expand this
month, according to estimates compiled by Bloomberg. A
preliminary survey of September manufacturing activity from HSBC
Holdings Plc and Markit Economics is scheduled to be released on
Sept. 23. A report on industrial profits for August is due out
on Sept. 27.  Japan’s  Topix (TPX)  climbed 42 percent this year, the most among
developed markets, amid optimism Prime Minister Shinzo Abe and
the  Bank of Japan  can lead the country out of deflation through
unprecedented monetary easing.  North Asian stocks will rise faster this year than the rest
of the region as a strengthening global economy boosts exports,
according to Haren Shah, Singapore-based chief strategist for
Asia-Pacific at Citigroup Inc.’s wealth management division,
which oversees $210 billion. The firm is recommending investors
buy technology and industrial companies from China, South Korea
and Taiwan.  Fed Tapering  Tapering could begin later this year should economic data
continue to strengthen and the first interest-rate increase may
not come until the jobless rate is considerably lower than 6.5
percent, Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said on Sept. 18.  Exporters advanced. Li & Fung, which gets 63 percent of
sales of from the U.S., climbed 3.3 percent to HK$11.96 in Hong
Kong. Panasonic gained 4.2 percent to 960 yen.  James Hardie
Industries SE (JHX) , a building materials supplier that counts the
U.S. as its biggest market, jumped 5.7 percent to A$10.62 in
Sydney.  Wing Hang Bank Ltd. jumped 43 percent to HK$118.90 to lead
family lenders higher in Hong Kong. Owners including members of
Chairman Patrick Fung’s family and related trusts are holding
preliminary talks for a sale that would trigger a mandatory
buyout offer, the bank said Sept. 16.  Takeover Talks  Wing Hang joins Chong Hing Bank Ltd. in acquisition talks
as the city’s role as an international  yuan  center attracts
mainland financial institutions seeking overseas expansion.
Chong Hing, Hong Kong’s smallest family-run lender, surged 21
percent to a record HK$34.80.  Billabong International Ltd., an Australian surfwear maker
that had said its namesake brand is worthless, lost 2.3 percent
to 42 Australian cents in Sydney after accepting a refinancing
plan from Oaktree Capital Management LP and Centerbridge
Partners LP, walking away from a rival deal.  Ranbaxy, India’s largest drugmaker, slumped 2.9 percent to
457.2 rupees in Mumbai. Recommendations on the stock were
lowered by brokerages including Jefferies LLC, HSBC Holdings
Plc, and Edelweiss Securities Ltd. after the U.S. Food & Drug
Administration issued an import alert against a Ranbaxy facility
in Mohali, Punjab state. Parent company Daiichi Sankyo Co. lost
3.1 percent to 1,843 yen in  Tokyo .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  