-- Australian Miner Palmer Faces Recount in Lower-House Contest
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2013-09-21T05:37:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/australian-miner-palmer-faces-recount-in-lower-house-contest.html
Mining magnate  Clive Palmer ’sbid
to win a seat in  Australia ’s lower house remains on hold with a
recount ordered for the division of Fairfax, which he contested
in the Sept. 7 election.  With counting completed, Palmer polled 42,367  votes  while
Ted O’Brien of the Liberal National Party of Queensland received
42,331 votes, the Australian  Electoral Commission  said on its
website today. Under Australian law, electorates with final
margins of less than 100 votes have an automatic recount.  Palmer , 59, who owns a nickel refinery and is planning an
$8 billion gas project, said during the campaign that he was
seeking to become prime minister of the world’s 12th-largest
economy. That prize was claimed by  Tony Abbott , who has seen his
Liberal-National coalition leading in 90 of the 150 lower-house
districts with final standings not yet declared. The Palmer
United Party is also poised to win a seat in the Senate.  The owner of Mineralogy Pty Ltd., who made his fortune in
real estate and by investing in mining tenements that later
proved lucrative, Palmer is building a full-scale replica of the
Titanic. His  election policies  included abolishing the carbon
price mechanism and mining profits tax instigated by the
outgoing Labor government and creating incentives to encourage
more onshore processing of the nation’s resources.  In this month’s election, Palmer fielded candidates in
every lower-house district, winning 5.5 percent of first-preference votes. The Greens party, which holds the balance of
power in the Senate and was an ally of the former Labor
government, secured 8.6 percent.  Dinosaur Park  Along with mining magnates  Gina Rinehart  and  Andrew Forrest , Palmer drew criticism last year from then-Treasurer
 Wayne Swan  who said they were threatening the nation’s
democratic process by using their wealth to seek to shape
policy. Palmer, a former member of the Liberal National Party in
Queensland, last year dropped plans to contest Swan’s seat in
the federal election.  Palmer has an agreement with Nanjing-based CSC Jinling
Shipyard to build a 21st-century replica of the Titanic. The
shipbuilder is also making four 64,000 deadweight tonne bulk
carriers for Palmer, whose investments have included golf
courses, hotels, a soccer team and a horse stud.  He has also  announced plans  to build the Palmer Coolum
Resort: Dinosaur Park, which will feature more than 150
mechanical dinosaurs at his Queensland golf resort. Last year he
claimed Greenpeace was being funded by the Central Intelligence
Agency to attempt to destroy Australia’s coal-mining industry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rosalind Mathieson at 
 rmathieson3@bloomberg.net  