-- Bill Clinton Backs Yellen for Fed While Defending Summers’s Past
-- B y   C h r i s   S t r o h m
-- 2013-09-22T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/bill-clinton-backs-yellen-for-fed-while-defending-summers-s-past.html
Former President  Bill Clinton  said
 Janet Yellen  would be “great” as the next chairman of the
 Federal Reserve  and defended  Larry Summers , who withdrew his
name from consideration amid lawmaker opposition.  “I also consider Janet Yellen a friend and I think she has
shown good judgment,” Clinton said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria
GPS” program. “She’s been right on everything that’s happened
in this whole aftermath of the financial crisis. So if she gets
the job, I’ll be thrilled, too.”  The likelihood of Yellen, 67, replacing  Ben S. Bernanke  as
Fed chief has increased as White House officials began gauging
lawmakers’ support and she won the backing of a top Senate
Democrat. She currently is vice chairman of the Fed, where
Clinton said she’s “done a fabulous job.”  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s No. 3
Democrat and a senior member of the Banking Committee, said
Sept. 18 that Yellen would be an “excellent choice” to succeed
Bernanke when his term expires on Jan. 31.  Clinton defended Summers, who served under his
administration as Treasury secretary from 1999 to 2001. Summers
withdrew his name from consideration as Fed chairman following
opposition from some Democrats, women’s groups and other
advocacy organizations against his potential nomination.  “I think there’s this kind of cartoon image that’s been
developed that somehow Larry Summers was a one-note Johnny, just
trying to let big financial titans ravage the land,” Clinton
said. “It’s just ludicrous.”  Summers served as director of the National Economic Council
for President  Barack Obama  from January 2009 until November
2010.  “He played a central role in helping President Obama use
the power of the government to try to bring the economy back
when we were on the brink of just sliding into depression when
he took office,” Clinton said.  Syrian Chemical Weapons  Clinton said he supports President Barack Obama’s decision
to try to force Syrian President Bashar al-Assad to rid his
country of chemical weapons, and that removing Assad from power
is “a separate issue.”  “There is inherent and enduring benefit in taking a step
that has the potential to rid the world of these chemical
weapons, because it’s going to be difficult for anybody else to
use them if this happens,” he said. “It’s worth doing.”  Clinton also backs Obama on arming the Syrian rebels, even
if it means some weapons might fall into the hands of al-Qaeda-linked militants.  “As cruel as that sounds, that’s the only shot we’ve got
for a negotiated settlement, trying to make sure that we balance
up the forces a little bit,” he said.  Other Clintons  Clinton said he didn’t know if his wife and former
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  will run for president in
2016.  “I think she would be the first to tell you that there is
no such thing as a done deal, ever, by anybody,” Clinton said.
“I don’t know what she’s going to do.”  Clinton also said he wouldn’t discourage his daughter,
 Chelsea Clinton , from seeking political office, even though it
can be personally grueling.  “I would not ever advise her not to do it if she wanted
to,” Clinton said. “Look politics is like pro football, it’s a
contact sport. If you don’t want to get hit, you should stay on
the sidelines.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Strohm in Washington at 
 cstrohm1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  