-- Canada Dollar Rises to Three-Month High as Fed Retains Stimulus
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2013-09-21T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/canada-dollar-rises-to-three-month-high-as-fed-retains-stimulus.html
Canada ’s dollar advanced for a
third week, touching a three-month high, as the Federal Reserve
surprised markets by keeping intact record monetary stimulus
that has helped support higher-yielding assets.  The currency trimmed gains after Fed Bank of St. Louis
President James Bullard said yesterday the Sept. 18 decision was
a close call and a “small” tapering of the $85 billion in
monthly bond buying could come in October. The currency twice
breached its 200-day moving average, a key test for some traders
on whether the run of strength has momentum, before falling
back. A report next week is forecast to show Canadian retail
sales rose in July after declining the most this year in the
prior month.  “The Fed was the catalyst across the foreign-exchange
space,”  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign exchange at
 National Bank of Canada (NA) , said by phone from Toronto. “The
important 200-day moving average was rejected because pent-up
corporate demand to buy the U.S. dollar” was unleashed by the
Fed’s inaction.  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 0.5 percent this week
in Toronto to C$1.0304 per U.S. dollar. It touched C$1.0182 on
Sept. 18, the highest point since June 19. One loonie buys 97.05
U.S. cents.  ‘Tipping Point’  Canada’s dollar extended a decline yesterday after
 BlackBerry (BB)  Ltd., the smartphone maker that’s evaluating a sale,
said it will cut 4,500 jobs and record an inventory writedown of
as much as $960 million.  The job cuts are “actually enough to impact the overall
Canadian labor market,” Terrence Connelly, founder of
Lafayette, California-based hedge-fund advisory firm Contingent
Macro Advisors LLC, said yesterday in an e-mailed reply to
questions. “The knock-on effects could be significant over the
coming months.”  This came two days after Bank of Canada Governor Stephen
Poloz said Sept. 18 that confidence about global demand is
bringing a “tipping point” where business investment takes
over from “tired” consumers in leading output growth.  Businesses aren’t ready to take up the reins of growth,
said David Madani, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. He
said he expects growth of 1 percent in the second half of the
year, below the 3.2 percent annualized growth forecast by the
Bank of Canada.  ‘Further Depreciation’  “With no export recovery in sight, business investment
growth will be modest,” Madani said by phone from Toronto.
“Our year-ahead view is further depreciation in the Canadian
dollar because of weakness in the Canadian economy.”  Madani forecasts the loonie to weaken to C$1.064 by year-end. It will fall to C$1.05 by Dec. 31, according to the median
estimate of 48 economists in a Bloomberg Survey.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the Canadian
dollar will decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show.  The difference in the number of wagers by hedge funds and
other large speculators on a decline in the Canadian dollar
compared with those on a gain --  net shorts  -- was 18,764 on
Sept. 17, compared with net shorts of 30,942 a week earlier.
Traders have been betting on a decline since February.  The Fed’s decision to prolong asset purchases was
“borderline,” Bullard said, amid data that showed a less-robust recovery. Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said the Fed would
make the taper call based on “what’s needed for the economy.”
The Federal Open Market Committee next meets Oct. 30.  December Expectations  Policy makers will wait until their December meeting to
decide to reduce monthly purchases, 24 of 41 economists
according to a Bloomberg survey conducted Sept. 18-19. The
median estimate in an Aug. 9-13 poll projected the Fed would
begin paring at this week’s meeting.  “The market’s a bit surprised by Ben Bernanke backing off
the tapering,” Madani said. “We still think they’ll go ahead
and do it, but not until December.”  The prospect of sustained bond-buying by the Fed triggered
a rally in U.S. government debt and widened the interest-rate
 gap  between Canadian and U.S. two-year government debt to as
much as 92 basis points, or 0.92 percentage point, the most
since January. U.S. two-year notes yielded 0.33 percent
yesterday compared with Canadian two-year yields of 1.22
percent.  The two-year notes dropped six basis points on the week.
Canada’s  10-year note yields  fell seven basis points to 2.69
percent.  Moving Average  The loonie’s failure to stay above the 200-day moving
average was due to Canadian companies that do business across
the border taking the opportunity to buy U.S. dollars at the
most attractive levels in three months, Spitz said. “That and
corporate buying of the U.S. dollar will serve to mitigate
Canadian dollar gains going forward,” he said.  The currency fell yesterday as Canada’s inflation rate
slowed in August, with the consumer price index rising  1.1
percent (CACPIYOY)  from a year earlier, following July’s 1.3 percent pace,
according to a report from Ottawa-based Statistics Canada. The
core rate, which excludes eight volatile products, slowed to 1.3
percent from 1.4 percent.  Canadian  retail sales  in July are forecast to rise 0.6
percent after a 0.6 percent decline the previous month,
according to the median estimate of 17 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. Statistics Canada will report the figures Sept. 24.  ‘Vulnerable’ Loonie  “The Canadian dollar and all the other beneficiaries of
quantitative easing remain vulnerable in the long term as
tapering will occur -- the only question is when,” John Curran,
a senior vice president at CanadianForex Ltd., an online
foreign-exchange dealer, said yesterday in a note to clients.
“Markets are still jittery, but I believe we have seen a near-term base for the U.S. dollar against most Group of Seven
currencies.”  The loonie has fallen 1.7 percent this year against nine
developed nations currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation Weighted Index, ahead only of only the currencies of
 Japan  and fellow commodities exporters Norway and  Australia . The
U.S. dollar advanced 2.5 percent and the euro added 5.4 percent
to lead gainers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in London at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  