-- Dollar Falls to Lowest Since February as Fed Retains Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2013-09-21T04:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/dollar-falls-to-lowest-since-february-as-fed-retains-stimulus.html
The dollar fell to its lowest level
since February as markets were whipsawed by Federal Reserve
communications on keeping monthly bond purchases unabated
depending on the strength of the economy.  The U.S. currency fell against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers for a third-straight week as the U.S. central bank
announced Sept. 18 it kept $85 billion in monthly bond purchases
unchanged, compared with a Bloomberg survey forecasting a $5
billion reduction. The dollar rose yesterday after Fed Bank of
St. Louis President  James Bullard  said a “small tapering” was
possible in October. The euro’s rally was the most since July as
the currency’s economy emerges from a record-long recession and
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  stands for re-election tomorrow.  “The market has really been twisted back and forth by the
Fed this week,” Peter Gorra, the chief dealer in  New York  at
BNP Paribas SA, said in a phone interview yesterday. “With this
dovish call, people really had to go to the market to put risk
on, which obviously gets ugly in these volatile events.”  The Bloomberg U.S.  Dollar Index , which tracks the
performance of a basket of 10 leading global currencies against
the dollar, fell 1 percent this week to 1,013.28 in New York. It
reached 1,006.40 on Sept. 19, the lowest level on a closing
basis since Feb. 20.  Market Prices  The dollar weakened 1.7 percent to $1.3524 per euro. The
U.S. currency was little changed at 99.36 yen. Japan’s currency
lost 1.7 percent to 134.37 versus Europe’s 17-nation common
tender, touching the weakest level since November 2009.  Hedge funds  and other large speculators  increased  bets the
euro will gain against the dollar to almost the highest level
since July 2011, according to data from the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission. The difference in the number of wagers by on
a gain in the currency compared with those on a loss -- known as
net longs -- was 31,907 on Sept. 10, compared with 12,696 a week
earlier.  Currency  volatility  as measured by JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s
G-7  Volatility Index  rose to 8.94 percent after touching 8.55
percent on Sept. 18, the lowest since January. An equally
weighted basket of so-called BRICS emerging-market currencies
rallied for a third week. BRICS refers to Brazil,  Russia , India,
China and  South Africa .  While India’s central bank Governor  Raghuram Rajan 
surprised analysts by raising the benchmark  interest rate  to 7.5
percent in his first policy review, the nation’s currency fell
yesterday as traders reassessed Fed policy that has driven
investors into higher yielding assets.  The rupee added 1.9 percent this week to 62.2775 per
dollar. It’s down about 12 percent this year.  Emerging Markets  “The knee-jerk buying of  emerging-markets  stocks has, for
now, run out of steam,” said  Win Thin , the global head of
emerging-markets strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. in
New York. There’s “continued uncertainty about the exact timing,
but, tapering still looms.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has orchestrated the most
aggressive monetary stimulus in the central bank’s 100-year
history, pumping up the  balance sheet  to $3.72 trillion from
$867 billion in August 2007 and holding the main interest-rate
target at almost to zero since December 2008.  The Fed repeated guidance that its rate target will remain
low for at least as long as  unemployment  exceeds 6.5 percent,
and the outlook for inflation remains no higher than 2.5
percent. Markets worldwide also rallied this week after former
Treasury Secretary  Lawrence Summers  withdrew from the running to
succeed Bernanke, paving the way for Fed Vice Chairwoman  Janet
Yellen , who is forecast to favor slower stimulus reduction.  Fed Policy  The central bank will likely begin tapering in December as
part of a process that will completely wind down quantative
easing by the middle of next year, Joseph Lavorgna, chief U.S.
economist in New York at Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., wrote
yesterday in a note. The central bank will likely increase its
federal funds rate target in mid-2015, he said.  “The economy can handle higher interest rates,” Lavorgna
said. “One, yields remain extraordinarily low; two, households
are anticipating higher rates, and, three, a steeper yield curve
is encouraging bank lending.”  Most economists surveyed by Bloomberg now say the policy
makers will begin tapering asset purchases in December.  “Since we kind of had to reset our thoughts on how this
was going to happen, any comment now by any Fed person will be
highly scrutinized,”  Fabian Eliasson , head of U.S. currency
sales in New York at Mizuho Financial Group Inc., said in a
phone interview.  Merkel Runs  In Europe, polls suggest the election is Merkel’s to lose,
with Germans trusting her leadership, backing her austerity-first response to Europe’s debt crisis and crediting her for
economic gains.  An index of household confidence in the  euro zone  improved
to minus 14.9, the highest level since July 2011, from minus
15.6 a month earlier, the European Commission in Brussels said
yesterday in a preliminary report. Economists had forecast an
increase to minus 14.5, according to the median of 23 estimates
in a Bloomberg News survey.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  will address
the European Parliament on Sept. 23. He has refrained from
printing euros to buy bonds.  The euro has appreciated 5.4 percent this year, the best
performer of 10 developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar appreciated 2.5 percent
and the yen slumped 11.9 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  