-- Stenson Has Four-Shot Lead Before Final Round of PGA Tour Event
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-22T04:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/henrik-stenson-holds-four-shot-lead-at-pga-tour-championship.html
Henrik Stenson holds a four-shot
lead at 11-under par going into the fourth round of the Tour
Championship, the final event of the U.S. PGA Tour’s playoffs.  The winner of the 30-player, season-ending tournament at
Atlanta’s East Lake Golf Club receives $1.4 million. A victory
for any player in the top five of the FedEx Cup standings would
secure a $10 million bonus.  Stenson, who is second in the standings behind  Tiger Woods ,
shot 1-under 69 yesterday and has a three-round total of 199.
The Swede held a nine-shot lead midway through the third round
before four bogeys in the rain over the final nine holes helped
bring him back to the field.  “I think I’ll choose to look at it from the bright side,
even though the weather is not that bright at the moment,”
Stenson told reporters. “Started the day with a 4-shot lead and
I still got it, so that’s all that matters really.”  Dustin Johnson shot 67 to move into second place at 7
under. He’s two shots better than fellow American  Steve Stricker , who finished with 68.  “If I keep driving it straight, then I’m going to give him
a run tomorrow,” Johnson said yesterday.  Stenson, the No. 2 seed in the FedEx Cup, is still in great  Woods, a two-time winner of the points competition, shot 69
yesterday and is tied for 26th place at 3-over par. He made his
only bogey on the third hole and had consecutive birdies at the
14th and 15th holes.  Americans  Zach Johnson , Billy Horschel and Jordan Spieth
and England’s  Justin Rose  are all tied for fourth place at 4
under. Johnson shot 69 yesterday, Horschel and Rose shot 70 and
Spieth finished with a 71.  Masters Tournament winner  Adam Scott , who is third in the
points standings, shot 74 yesterday to fall to 2 under. The
Australian, who won the playoff-opening Barclays event in  New
Jersey  last month, began the day four strokes behind Stenson in
second place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 