-- Merkel Asks for Third Term as Steinbrueck Seeks Election Upset
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a ,   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2013-09-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/merkel-asks-for-third-term-as-steinbrueck-seeks-election-upset.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  wound up
her campaign for a historic third term with an appeal to voters
to back her defense of the euro as Social Democrat Peer Steinbrueck pledged to give Germany renewed direction.  The candidates delivered their final arguments on the eve
of today’s federal election that will decide who takes the helm
of Europe’s biggest economy and assumes the pre-eminent role in
European policy making. Polls put Merkel’s Christian Democratic
bloc ahead yet with no clear majority for a continued alliance
with the Free Democrats. The anti-euro AfD party may also win
seats, further complicating post-election coalition-building.  “Yes, it will be close,” Merkel said yesterday at the
final rally of her campaign in Stralsund, the port city in her
Baltic Sea constituency. “I said right from the start that
every vote counts.” Steinbrueck, speaking to supporters in
 Frankfurt , said that Merkel and her government had repeatedly
dodged issues of substance and in a matter of hours “you can
throw them out.”  Voting goes from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., when German television
networks ARD and ZDF release exit polls. Results based on
partially counted ballots will be broadcast from about 6:15 p.m.  Germans are going to the polls to cast their verdict on the
past four years of Merkel’s term that were dominated by Europe’s
collective defense of the euro during the sovereign debt crisis
in the 17-nation currency area that spread from  Greece .  Austerity-First  Merkel, 59, has delivered a campaign message that her
policy of aid in return for reforms is the best recipe for
 Europe , citing the drop in German unemployment to a two-decade
low and a budget that’s next-to-balanced. Steinbrueck, 66, her
first-term finance minister, says she’s benefiting from her SPD
predecessor’s policies and her austerity-first approach to
Europe must be recalibrated to focus on spurring growth.  Steinbrueck, speaking to a crowd of about 7,000 in the
financial capital yesterday, said that Germany under Social
Democratic leadership would return to being a “good neighbor”
in Europe, and cited the post-World War II era when Germany’s
one-time victims “didn’t have to fear us anymore, and they
experienced a trustworthy European partner.”  “There have been times when we have been helped -- back
then it was called the  Marshall Plan ,” he said. “There have
been times when these European countries stretched out their
hand for us to participate in European unification.”  Approval Ratings  Merkel enjoys a personal approval rating of 50 percent to
27 percent for Steinbrueck, according to an Emnid poll for
today’s Bild am Sonntag newspaper, yet German voters don’t elect
the chancellor directly. Due to coalition calculus, she may
strugge to continue her alliance with the FDP.  Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc had 38-40 percent
support in the last five opinion polls, while the Free Democrats
led by Economy Minister Philipp Roesler had 5-6 percent. The SPD
was at 26-28 percent and its Green party allies at 8-10 percent.
That raises the prospect of a possible “grand coalition” of
the two biggest parties, traditional rivals, as Merkel led in
her first term from 2005 to 2009. Steinbrueck has said he won’t
serve again under Merkel.  Seat Threshold  The anti-capitalist Left Party, which Steinbrueck also
rejects as a governing partner, had 8.5-9 percent. The AfD, or
Alternative for  Germany , had 4-5 percent, at the 5 percent cusp
needed to win seats.  CDU leaders including Thuringia Prime Minister Christine Lieberknecht have ruled out coalition talks with the AfD because
of its anti-euro stance.  Steinbrueck reiterated his support for the euro in
Frankfurt, saying that its demise would “throw back European
unification by 20 to 30 years” and result in currency
appreciation that would “destroy any business.”  His message throughout the campaign has been that Merkel’s
government has done nothing to address areas including nursing
care or pensions, while it is mismanaging the energy transition
to renewables from nuclear power. He contrasted his proposals on
rent controls, improving the education system and investing in
infrastructure to Merkel’s “directionless” government.  Whereas Merkel denounces the tax-raising plans of the SPD
and their Green party allies as a death knell for jobs,
Steinbrueck says it is necessary to address a gap between the
richer and poorer in German society that has widened as a result
of Merkel’s inactivity.  Compass Lacking  “Where is the direction? Where is the compass for this
country?” Steinbrueck said in Frankfurt, the biggest city in
Hesse state, which is also voting for its regional assembly
today. “Tomorrow night you can throw out the most inactive,
backwards-looking, most divided -- yet pompous -- government
since German reunification.”  Germany, the biggest source of the 496 billion euros ($671
billion) of bailout commitments to five euro nations, must
continue providing support in exchange for their enacting
austerity policies to boost competitiveness, Merkel says.  “We have to continue on this course,” Merkel said
yesterday. “Stabilization in Europe is in the fundamental
interests of Germans and secures German jobs.” She favors “a
strong Europe, a successful Europe” and “in the next four
years we have to work so that this wonderful continent continues
to be successful,” she said.  Merkel, Germany’s first woman chancellor and the first from
the formerly communist East, said that she’ll also give Germans
“four more good years.”  “I won’t deny that I’m a bit excited about what the result
will be,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Frankfurt at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  