-- France to Tax EDF Nuclear Output for Energy Shift to Renewables
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l
-- 2013-09-21T17:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/france-to-tax-edf-nuclear-output-for-energy-shift-to-renewables.html
France  will introduce a levy on
nuclear energy as well as a tax on  carbon emissions  from fossil
fuels to raise billions needed to boost renewable power and
improve  energy efficiency .  “All change is expensive in the short term even if it’s
beneficial in the long term,” French Prime Minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said today in a speech about the environment in Paris.  The nuclear levy will be applied to  Electricite de France
SA ’s existing atomic reactors, he said. The carbon tax will be
introduced “progressively” on fossil fuels in order to earn 4
billion euros ($5.4 billion) in 2016.  President  Francois Hollande , who vowed during his election
campaign to reduce reliance on nuclear to half of total output
by about 2025 while also keeping down consumers’ bills, hasn’t
yet said how he will reconcile those aims. The country gets
about three-quarters of the power it produces from EDF’s 58
nuclear reactors, more than any other nation. The energy
transition will cost an estimated 20 billion euros a year,
Hollande said yesterday.  “Our nuclear fleet will be asked to contribute,” Ayrault
said today at the end of a two-day conference on the
environment. The tax would apply “over the remaining lifetime
of our reactors.”  France’s Green party, which had said it would withdraw
support for the Socialist government over the slow pace of
policy initiatives, applauded the carbon tax announcement and
new incentives towards home renovations for improved energy use.  Ayrault didn’t give details of how much EDF, which is 84
percent owned by the government, will have to pay. The utility
is compensated for the higher cost of electricity produced by
 wind turbines  and solar panels it buys through a tax on power
bills called the CSPE.  Carbon Tax  The planned carbon tax, to be called a “climate energy
contribution,” will be “neutral” next year and generate 2.5
billion euros in 2015 and 4 billion euros in 2016, Ayrault said.
It will be applied to gasoline, diesel, coal, natural gas as
well as heavy and heating fuels.  Fishing and transport workers will be exempt from the levy
while industrial plants that qualify for carbon quotas “will
keep their system,” according to Ayrault.  The government’s policy announcements “appear to be
pragmatic, with very ambitious targets, some would even say
hard-to-reach targets,” said Jean-Pierre Clamadieu, who is
chief executive officer of  Solvay SA (SOLB)  and was speaking for the
business lobby Medef. “The state appears to have a vision about
what it wants the energy mix to be and is giving itself the
means to achieve it.”  Hollande said yesterday the an energy law would be passed
by the end of next year capping nuclear-power capacity and
granting the state the legal means to shut down reactors.  The president hasn’t said whether more nuclear plants will
close, beyond the planned shuttering of Fessenheim in eastern
France by the end of 2016.  France will also seek to cut energy use in half by 2050 and
fossil fuel use 30 percent by 2030, Hollande announced
yesterday. It will implement incentives to spur energy-saving
measures in homes and use of electric cars by adding recharging
stations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  