-- Liverpool Suffers First Premier League Loss; Everton Wins
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-09-21T18:58:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/liverpool-suffers-first-premier-league-loss-villa-everton-win.html
Liverpool suffered its first loss
of the season in English soccer’s Premier League as West Brom
won for the first time and Everton rallied to stay unbeaten.  Dejan Lovren scored the goal that gave Southampton a 1-0
win at Liverpool. Chelsea defeated Fulham 2-0, West Brom beat
Sunderland 2-0 in a matchup of the league’s only winless clubs
and Everton scored two late goals to beat 10-man West Ham 3-2.
Hull City and  Aston Villa  also won away games.  Southampton continued its recent success against Liverpool
with the away win. Lovren headed in a corner kick from Adam
Lallana in the 53rd minute as the Saints beat the Reds for the
fifth time in the past seven league meetings.  The loss allowed Chelsea to move above Liverpool at the top
of the standings on goal difference with its win over Fulham.
Oscar gave the Blues the lead early in the second half and John Obi Mikel clinched the victory with his first goal in 185 career
Premier League matches.  Stephane Sessegnon,  Liam Ridgewell  and Morgan Amalfitano
scored as West Brom handed Sunderland its fourth loss in five
games. Two of the goals came in the final 12 minutes after
Sunderland went down to 10 men as Stephen Fletcher was injured
with his team having made its three substitutions.  Leighton Baines and Romelu Lukaku scored in the final seven
minutes to give Everton the victory at West Ham.  Ravel Morrison put the Hammers in front in the first half
and Baines tied the score with a free kick in the 62nd minute.
West Ham regained the lead on a penalty kick from Mark Noble,
who was later sent off for a second yellow card after a foul on
Ross Barkley.  Three Draws  Baines once again tied the score with the resulting free
kick and Lukaku scored with a header three minutes later.
Everton’s second straight win after three draws moves it into a
tie for third place on nine points with Arsenal and Tottenham,
who both play tomorrow.  Hull came from behind twice at Newcastle, sealing a 3-2 win
with Sone Aluko’s goal in the 76th minute. Robbie Brady and
Ahmed Elmohamady also scored for the Tigers, while Loic Remy got
both Newcastle goals.  Libor Kozak scored the goal and Brad Guzan saved a penalty
kick as Aston Villa beat Norwich 1-0.  Kozak scored in the 30th minute after replacing injured
leading scorer Christian Benteke. Guzan saved Robert Snodgrass’s
first-half penalty and also made a lunging one-handed save
against  Gary Hooper  with two minutes remaining.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  