-- Kenyan Shopping Mall Attack by Al-Shabaab Leaves 68 Dead
-- B y   E r i c   O m b o k   a n d   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2013-09-22T18:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/kenya-shopping-mall-attack-leaves-at-least-39-people-dead.html
Kenyan police cornered as many as
15 al-Qaeda-linked gunmen who’ve taken an unknown number of
hostages at an upscale mall in the Kenyan capital after an
attack yesterday in which at least 68 people died.  Security forces have as good a chance “as we can hope
for” to neutralize the attackers, who may include women, as the
authorities work to ensure the captives are freed unharmed,
Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta told reporters today in the
city. More than 205 people were injured in the raid and 49 are
missing, according to the Kenya  Red Cross ’s  website .  “The criminals are now located in one place in the
building,” Kenyatta, flanked by diplomats and government
officials, told reporters at State House in Nairobi. The Red
Cross said yesterday that hostages were being held in the
Nakumatt supermarket at the mall.  The raid was the deadliest attack in Kenya since the 1998
bombing of the U.S. Embassy in downtown Nairobi that killed 213
people. The al-Shabaab Islamist militant group from neighboring
Somalia claimed responsibility for the attack. The militia had
threatened to carry out raids in Kenya after the country
deployed its army to southern Somalia in October 2011 to fight
the group. In 2010, the militants killed 74 people in an attack
at a restaurant and sports club in  Uganda .  A large explosion rocked the mall at about 7:45 p.m., the
Associated Press reported. Army and police helicopters were seen
flying over the area this afternoon.  “Godspeed to our guys in the Westgate building,” the
Kenyan National Disaster Operation Centre said on its Twitter
account. “Major engagement ongoing. Sporadic gunfire.”  Israeli Advice  Israeli advisers are helping with a negotiating strategy to
end the hostage standoff, Ynet news website reported, citing an
unidentified Israeli security official. Israeli government
spokesman  Mark Regev  declined to comment when contacted by
Bloomberg.  President  Barack Obama  called Kenyatta today to express his
condolences and reiterated U.S. support to bring the attackers
to justice, according to a statement from the White House.
Several American citizens were injured in the assault, the State
Department said.  Two Canadians, including a female diplomat, two French
citizens, three Britons, a Chinese and a South African were
among the victims, according to their governments. Ghanaian poet
and statesman Kofi Awoonor died in the attack, according to an
e-mailed statement from  Ghana ’s government.  Kenyatta, who said he lost a nephew and his nephew’s
fiancee in the assault, vowed to hunt down the perpetrators.
“We shall not relent on the war on terror,” he said.  Travel Warnings  The Kenyan leader urged foreign governments to not issue
travel warnings because doing so would be a success for “those
who wish to cause harm and evil.” Tourism is  Kenya ’s second-biggest source of foreign currency, after tea. The East African
nation is the world’s largest producer of black tea.  The attack at the Westgate Mall in Westlands, 3 kilometers
(1.8 miles) northwest of Nairobi’s city center, started at about
12:30 p.m. yesterday. Middle class Kenyans and expatriates
frequent the shopping center, which has more than 80 shops
including bank outlets, a movie theater, casino, restaurants and
a children’s play area.  Two explosions were heard within about five minutes of each
other when the attack started, forcing panicked patrons to seek
shelter including in the parking area on the roof of the four-story building. The attackers, who lobbed grenades, told Muslims
they could go free and that non-Muslims were the target, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing an eyewitness.  Main Entrance  The gunmen entered through the main door of the mall and
went on a shooting rampage, moving from the ground level to
upper floors, according to an e-mailed statement from ArtCaffe,
a restaurant in the mall.  “On hearing the gunfire, patrons and staff in the mall ran
for cover at every level,” the company said.  Local broadcasters including Nation TV yesterday showed
images of people fleeing the mall under the protection of armed
security officers, while some clutched children and broke down
in tears. Some of the injured were carried out by other
survivors or pushed in shopping carts to waiting ambulances and
dead bodies were loaded onto a pickup truck. Live footage from
outside the mall today displayed Kenyan police and army
officials standing guard and cordoning off surrounding streets.  A woman who escaped from the building at about 9:30 a.m.
today told reporters at the scene that when the attack began,
she dropped to the floor.  ‘All Alone’  “I was all alone,” she said. “Bullets were running over
my head.” Hours later, she crawled into an office and locked
the door, where she stayed overnight until police allowed her
safe passage from the building.  United Nations Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon spoke to
Kenyatta and expressed his concern and offered his solidarity as
the Kenyan authorities dealt with the incident.  “The secretary-general is following closely and with alarm
the attack on a shopping mall in Nairobi,” according to a
statement published on the organization’s website.  British Prime Minister  David Cameron  said he was
“sickened” by the attack.  “It’s been done in the name of terror, not religion,”
Cameron said in a posting on his Twitter feed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Ombok in Nairobi at 
 eombok@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Richardson  at 
 pmrichardson@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  