-- Oracle Team USA Avoids Elimination in America’s Cup With Victory
-- B y   A a r o n   K u r i l o f f
-- 2013-09-21T04:01:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/oracle-team-usa-avoids-elimination-in-america-s-cup-with-victory.html
Oracle Team USA beat Emirates Team
New Zealand in yesterday’s only completed America’s Cup race,
avoiding elimination in the 162-year-old regatta for a second
straight day with help from light wind on  San Francisco Bay .  The win leaves the defending champions behind 8-3 in the
best-of-17 series, needing to win the next six races to take the
regatta that continues today. New Zealand, which needs a single
victory to capture the trophy, led an earlier race by almost a
mile before officials abandoned it for exceeding a 40-minute
time limit.  “We felt very lucky,” said Ben Ainslie, Oracle’s
tactician. “We also felt for the Kiwi guys, because I think
we’ve all been in that situation where you’ve got a hand on the
trophy and you have to come back and do it all again.”  Racing in wind of about 12 knots (14 miles per hour, 22
kilometers per hour), the Kiwis won the start and rounded the
first turn with a three-second edge, before Oracle took
advantage of a favorable wind shift to pull ahead.  As the 72-foot hydrofoil catamarans approached the downwind
mark, Oracle forced  New Zealand  into two rapid maneuvers, then
extended the lead while the Kiwis were slowed down by the turns.  “It’s just full-throttle for us,” Oracle helmsman Jimmy
Spithill said. “We don’t have an option. We’re not playing it
conservative out there. We’re doing everything we can. And the
boys are almost, it seems crazy, but they’re almost excited to
be in this position. Things are starting to go our way and we’re
trying to ride the wave of momentum.”  That win came after New Zealand dominated an earlier race,
pulling ahead by more than two minutes before officials called
off the race with the Kiwis preparing to turn toward the finish.  Ellison’s Boat  The abandonment kept alive the hopes of the U.S. team
backed by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  chief executive  Larry Ellison , the
world’s eighth-richest person according to the Bloomberg
Billionaires index, while exasperating New Zealand skipper Dean
Barker.  “It’s a very frustrating day to be honest,” he said after
the race. “Very frustrating.”  The abandoned race was a change from the previous two days,
each of which saw a race postponed for wind that exceeded a 20-knot safety limit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kuriloff in  New York  at 
 akuriloff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  