-- How Germany’s Election System Works: What to Watch for Today
-- B y   L e o n   M a n g a s a r i a n
-- 2013-09-21T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/how-germany-s-election-system-works-what-to-watch-for-today.html
Voters in the Federal Republic of
 Germany , which was created in 1949 under the Western allies
after World War II, go to the polls today to elect members of
the 18th  Bundestag , or lower house of parliament.  How many people can cast ballots?  Out of Germany’s  population  of about 80.5 million, 61.8
million are eligible to vote. Of these, about 3 million will be
voting for the first time. Voting rights are given from the age
of 18. The biggest single age group voting are those aged 70 and
older, making up 20.1 percent of the electorate. Voting takes
place in schools and other public buildings. In the last federal
election in 2009, voter  turnout  was 70.8 percent.  Which German state has the most voters?  The western state of  North Rhine-Westphalia , with 13.2
million, followed by  Bavaria  in the southeast with 9.3 million.
Former communist East Germany, including what used to be West
Berlin and East Berlin, has a total of 13.2 million voters. This
means former  West Germany  dominates with 48.6 million voters.
Germany reunified in 1990.  What are people voting for?  Voters don’t directly elect the chancellor. Instead, they
elect members of the Bundestag who in turn choose the head of
government. A total of 34 parties are fielding candidates in the
election. Six parties are represented in the current Bundestag.  Frankfurt Votes  One of Germany’s states -- Hesse, which includes the
financial capital,  Frankfurt  -- is also electing its regional
parliament today.  Voters also don’t pick members of the  Bundesrat , or upper
house, to which the governments of the federal states send
representatives. Germany’s mainly ceremonial  federal president 
is also not chosen by popular vote. He or she is elected every
five years by a special assembly comprising members of the
Bundestag and the states. Joachim Gauck, a Lutheran pastor and
one-time dissident from the former east, is Germany’s president.  Why do German voters each get two votes?  This is to allow each voter to cast one ballot to directly
elect a Bundestag member in an individual district and another
to vote for a party. Half of parliament’s members are chosen by
the first ballot. The second vote determines each party’s
strength in the Bundestag and is “the decisive ballot,”
according to the Federal Election Director’s  website .  Bundestag Seats  How many seats are at stake in the Bundestag?  The German parliament’s lower chamber has at least 598
members. Under Germany’s mixed proportional and direct electoral
system, 299 members are directly elected in their districts and
the other 299 members enter parliament via party lists through
proportional representation.  What’s the 5 percent hurdle?  Under Germany’s proportional representation system a party
that wins at least 5 percent of the vote gets seats in the
Bundestag -- even if it fails to win any directly contested
seats. This aspect of the German political system was put in
place to give representation to smaller parties and has been
crucial for the pro-business Free Democrats, the Greens and the
Left Party, heirs to the East German communists.  ‘Overhang’ Mandate  Why does the size of the German parliament vary after each
election?  This is because of “overhang” and “compensation”
parliamentary seats. Overhang seats are created if a party wins
more directly elected seats in one of the 16 federal states than
it would get under the proportional share-out from the second
ballots cast by voters. Compensation seats are meant to ensure
party proportion in the chamber. The normal-sized Bundestag
would have 598 members, yet the outgoing chamber has  620 members 
thanks to overhang seats. A revamped law for handing out
compensation seats may yield an even bigger chamber.  How can a chancellor get elected with less than 50 percent of
the popular vote?  Thanks to the extra seats created by overhang and
compensation mandates, and because parties that take less that 5
percent of the national vote don’t qualify for the proportional
share-out of seats, a chancellor’s coalition parties can win
less than 50 percent of the vote yet still clinch a majority in
the Bundestag.  Small Parties  That means Merkel’s Christian Democratic alliance and her
preferred partner, the Free Democrats, might gain a majority
even if they only win just over 44 percent nationwide, depending
on how many parties enter the chamber. If all small parties,
such as the anti-euro Alliance for Germany, or AfD, fail to
clear the 5 hurdle needed to win seats, Merkel would need a
lower percentage of the total vote to clinch a majority. If the
AfD does get in, it will be more difficult for Merkel to secure
a majority.  What does it take to win?  If there are no overhang seats and the Bundestag has 598
members then the “chancellor majority” needed to elect a new
head of government is 300 seats. If there are overhang seats
it’s one vote more than half the seats in the chamber. This
differs from the simple majority of those present in the chamber
needed to pass bills. In the past, ill or injured lawmakers have
been carried into the chamber on stretchers for crucial
Bundestag votes.  Results Timing  When can we expect the result on election day?  Polls open at 8 a.m. and close at 6 p.m. Public television
stations  ARD  and  ZDF  will release exit poll results at exactly 6
p.m. From about 6:15 p.m. the networks start releasing election
projections based on partially counted ballots. Unless the vote
is very close, television networks should call the winners by 7
p.m. If the election is tight, then the final result may take
far longer -- especially if it depends on compensation and
overhang seats, the distribution of which is more complicated
under revamped federal law being applied for the first time in
this election. The “final preliminary” result is usually
available about midnight with the final certified result, which
rarely changes from the preliminary result, available a few
weeks after election day.  Will the results be “Tweeted”?  Publication of exit poll results before voting stations
close at 6 p.m. can lead to fines under German law. Leaked exit
polls appeared on Twitter during voting hours of state elections
in 2009.  Elephant Round  What is the “Elephant Round”?  After polls close, the leaders of all the major parties
take part in what is dubbed the “Elephant Round” -- a 45-minute joint TV interview that’s scheduled to start at 8:15 p.m.
and is broadcast by ARD and ZDF. By this time the losers have
usually conceded defeat, though after the 2005 election,
defeated incumbent Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder  insisted  that it
was Merkel who had lost, drawing expressions of incredulity from
others taking part. Schroeder later joked nobody will ever beat
what he termed his “cult” performance.  What happens after election day?  Party leaders will meet tomorrow to decide how they’ll
proceed with coalition talks.  How long will it take for the new government to be set up?  Coalitions are the rule in Germany -- Merkel’s current
government has three parties -- and it generally takes four to
eight weeks to negotiate a coalition accord after elections.
Once the coalition agreement has been signed, parliament meets
for its first session in Berlin’s  Reichstag building  to elect
the chancellor.  How long is the chancellor’s term?  The Bundestag and chancellor are elected for four years,
meaning that the next German election will be in 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Leon Mangasarian in Berlin at 
 lmangasarian@blooomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net . 