-- Treasuries Rally as Traders Reduce Fed Rate Wagers
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-09-23T03:16:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/treasuries-rally-most-since-july-as-traders-cut-fed-rate-wagers.html
(Corrects second paragraph of article published Sept. 21
to show debt sales include five-year notes.)  Treasuries rallied, with 10-year
note yields falling the most since July, as investors pared
wagers for early interest-rate increases after the  Federal
Reserve  unexpectedly refrained from reducing debt purchases.  Yields on the benchmark 10-year security posted the biggest
one-day decline in almost two years on Sept. 18, after Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said policy makers would await more
evidence of sustained growth before tapering bond purchases
being used to damp borrowing costs. The Treasury will sell $97
billion in two-, five- and seven-year notes next week.  “The market was completely caught off guard by Bernanke
and the Fed,” said Jason Rogan, managing director of U.S.
government trading in New York at Guggenheim Partners LLC, which
oversees about $180 billion in assets. “It’s clear that
Bernanke doesn’t think the economy is ready for the Fed to pull
back, and that means stronger Treasuries.”  The 10-year  yield  fell 15 basis points, or 0.15 percentage
point, to 2.76 percent this week in New York, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The yield dropped 16 basis points
on Sept. 18, the biggest decline since Oct. 31, 2011. The weekly
drop was the largest since the five days ended July 12. The 2.5
percent note due in August 2023 rose 1 9/32, or $12.81 per
$1,000 face value, to 97 31/32.  Investors see a 43 percent chance that policy makers will
increase the federal funds rate target to 0.5 percent or more by
January 2015, based on data compiled by Bloomberg from futures
contracts. The odds were 68 percent two weeks ago as traders
began to factor in the probability that an end to the Fed’s
quantitative-easing program would eventually be followed by an
increase in the  target rate  for overnight loans between banks.  ‘Let’s Wait’  “Weaker data came in,” Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis
President  James Bullard  said yesterday on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and  Michael McKee .
“That was a borderline decision,” and “the committee came
down on the side of, ‘Let’s wait.’”  “Inflation is low,” Bullard said. “We can afford to be
patient.”  Yields on 10-year notes, the benchmark rate on loans
ranging from mortgages to corporate bonds, climbed as high as 3
percent Sept. 6 from 1.93 percent on May 21, the day before
Bernanke said that the central bank could slow the pace of
Treasury and mortgage bond purchases in the next few policy
meetings.  Markets shouldn’t have been surprised by the decision
because Federal Open Market Committee members have repeatedly
said the decision to slow, or taper, would be “data
dependent,” Bullard said.  Yield Curve  “Everybody’s nerves are frayed,” said David Robin, an
interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Newedge USA LLC, an
institutional-brokerage firm. “The market is still trying to
figure out what the yield-curve shape is supposed to look like
and sort out positions” since the FOMC.  The extra yield on Treasury 30-year bonds over five-year
notes widened to 238 basis points, the most since March, on
Sept. 19 as the Fed’s decision boosted demand for shorter-maturity debt that is typically more sensitive to changes in
central bank rate expectations.  “Conditions in the job market today are still far from
what all of us would like to see,” Bernanke said at a Sept. 18
press conference in  Washington  after the central bank’s two-day
meeting. “The committee has concern that rapid tightening of
financial conditions in recent months would have the effect of
slowing growth.”  TIPS Auction  The consumer-price index increased 0.1 percent in August,
the least in three months, Labor Department figures showed Sept.
17. The median forecast in a Bloomberg survey of 87 economists
called for a 0.2 percent gain. Consumer prices increased 1.5
percent in the 12 months ended in August after a 2 percent year-over-year gain the prior month.  The Treasury’s sale of $13 billion in 10-year inflation-indexed notes on Sept. 19 attracted the least demand since 2009
from a group of investors that includes pension funds and
insurers, with U.S. consumer prices rising less than forecast.  Direct bidders, non-primary-dealer investors that place
bids directly with the Treasury, bought 1.6 percent of the
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities auctioned, the least
since October 2009. The notes were sold at a yield of 0.5
percent, the highest since July 2011.  Lower Yields  The federal funds  rate target  will be 2 percent at the end
of 2016, according to the median of estimates by five governors
on the Fed’s board and 12 reserve bank presidents. That rate
compares with their median estimate of 4 percent for where the
rate should be at a time of full employment and stable prices.
The average rate over the past 20 years is 3.12 percent.  “The market made a big mistake,” said  Jim Bianco ,
president of Bianco Research LLC in  Chicago , said in a telephone
interview. “ Wall Street  made the mistake of taking silence from
the Fed as approval of tapering, when instead the silence was
because of a lack of consensus among the policy makers there.”  The Treasury will sell $33 billion in two-year notes on
Sept. 24, a drop of $1 billion from the sale of the securities
last month, the department announced on Sept. 19. It will sell
$35 billion in five-year securities the next day in what will be
considered an additional issue of the outstanding seven-year
notes issued Sept. 30, 2011. The U.S. will auction $29 billion
in seven-year debt on Sept. 26.  Treasury trading  volume  at ICAP Plc, the largest inter-dealer broker of  U.S. government debt , averaged $273  billion a
day this week, after surging to $459.9 billion the day before.
The 2013 average is $317.9 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  