-- Rodriguez Breaks Gehrig’s Grand Slam Record in Yankees’ Victory
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-09-21T06:31:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/rodriguez-breaks-gehrig-s-grand-slam-record-in-yankees-victory.html
Alex Rodriguez  hit his 24th career
grand slam to break the Major League Baseball record he shared
with  Lou Gehrig  and propel the  New York Yankees  to a 5-1 victory
against the San Francisco Giants.  “I’m a huge fan of Lou Gehrig, everything he’s done, going
back to his college days in New York,” Rodriguez told
reporters. “He’s kind of the gold standard for a Yankee.
Special moment. I’ll think about it someday.”  The Yankees (81-73) are struggling to stay in contention
for one of the two American League wild-card spots that go to
non-division-winning teams.  The two spots are now held by the Tampa Bay Rays (84-69)
and Cleveland Indians (84-70). The  Texas Rangers  (83-70) are a
half-game behind the Indians, followed by the Kansas City Royals
and Baltimore Orioles (both 81-72, 2 1/2 games behind Cleveland)
and the Yankees, an additional half-game back.  The Rays defeated the Orioles 5-4 in 18 innings last night
as the teams combined to use 21 pitchers. The Indians beat the
Houston Astros 2-1 in a rain-shortened seven-inning game. Kansas
City beat Texas 2-1.  The  Boston Red Sox  (94-61) defeated the Toronto Blue Jays
6-3 to clinch the American League East title for their second
division crown in the last 18 seasons. After falling to last
place in the AL East last season, the  Red Sox  went from worst to
first for the first time in franchise history.  At Yankee Stadium,  Alfonso Soriano  hit his 16th home run in
the second inning, and Juan Perez tied the game in the third for
the Giants with a run-scoring double.  Drug Suspension  Rodriguez, who is playing while appealing a record 211-game
drug suspension, returned to the lineup Aug. 5 after missing 110
games while recovering from offseason hip surgery and then a
mild quadriceps strain. His grand slam in the seventh inning was
the seventh home run of the season for the third baseman.  “It means I’m getting old,” said the 38-year-old
Rodriguez. “It’s hard to think about things like that right
now. We’re really on a sprint to the end here and every win is
huge for us.”  The Yankees have won only two of their last seven games.  “It’s an unbelievable accomplishment and it’s a big one
for us,” said Yankees manager  Joe Girardi . “I don’t know if we
can afford to lose any more games.”  CC Sabathia (14-13) won his fourth straight game, allowing
one run on seven hits in seven innings.  Tim Lincecum  (10-14)
gave up four runs on five hits in 6 2/3 innings.  In the National League wild-card race, the Cincinnati Reds
and Pittsburgh Pirates are in front with records of 88-66 with
the Washington Nationals five games back.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  