-- Roubini Urges Ukraine to Sign EU Accord Over Russian Deal
-- B y   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 2013-09-21T17:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/roubini-urges-ukraine-to-sign-eu-accord-over-russian-deal.html
Ukraine should work with the
European Union rather than a Russian-led customs union in order
to boost its economy, said  Nouriel Roubini , a professor of
economics and international business at  New York  University.  Ukraine’s “macroeconomic condition is fragile” because of
widening current-account and fiscal deficits and growing needs
for external financing, Roubini said today at the annual Yalta
European Strategy Conference on Ukraine’s Black Sea coast.  Ukraine plans to sign the EU Association Agreement, which
includes a free-trade accord with the 28-member bloc, in
November.  Russia  wants the former Soviet republic to join the
customs union it formed with Kazakhstan and Belarus instead. If
Ukraine signs the EU deal, Russia has said it would impose trade
restrictions to protect its market. Russia disrupted the passage
of Ukrainian goods over its border last month.  “If you join the EU, it means harmonization of
regulation,” Roubini said, adding that the trade accord could
boost Ukraine’s trade with “any part of the world.”  The EU agreement was delayed after ex-Prime Minister  Yulia Tymoshenko , an opponent of President  Viktor Yanukovych  from
Ukraine’s 2004 Orange Revolution, was handed a seven-year
sentence for abuse of office in 2011, a move the bloc deems
selective justice. Ukraine hasn’t dealt with Tymoshenko’s case.  Ukrainian Prime Minister  Mykola Azarov  told that conference
today that “we are sure that the signing” of the accord with
the EU “does not hold any risks for Russia.”  Credit Rating  Moody’s Investors Service cut Ukraine’s credit rating by
one level to Caa1 yesterday, citing “increased political and
economic risks due to deteriorating relations with Russia,” low
central bank reserves and “increased downside risk related to
future negotiations” with the  International Monetary Fund .  “Given the significant risks facing the country, we see
very little upward potential in the rating in the foreseeable
future,” Moody’s said.  Ukraine’s economy contracted 1.3 percent in the second
quarter after shrinking 1.1 percent in the first three months of
the year because of weak demand for its exports in global
markets. The government has failed to sign a new IMF bailout
loan because of disagreements over household energy subsidies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  