-- Myanmar Needs ‘Responsible Investments’ to Develop, Suu Kyi Says
-- B y   K l a u s   W i l l e
-- 2013-09-21T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-09-21/myanmar-needs-responsible-investments-to-develop-suu-kyi-says.html
Myanmar needs “responsible
investment” of foreign capital as it seeks to accelerate
economic development, opposition leader Aung San Suu Kyi said.  The country also needs to improve its rule of law and
democratic reforms must take place soon, not by 2015 when
general elections will be held, Suu Kyi said at a conference in
 Singapore  yesterday.  “If you are going to try to revive the economy, you need
capital,” Suu Kyi said, when asked whether investors should
wait for more political stability before committing resources to
the country. “I wouldn’t advise you to draw out. I would like
you to continue your investments. But make them as responsible
as possible.”  Myanmar’s shift to democracy after five decades of military
rule has attracted interest from companies including Google
Inc., Coca-Cola Co. and Unilever Plc, while  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  last
September became the first payments network to issue a license
to a bank in the country. Chinese and Japanese companies are
also investing in the nation, which borders India,  China  and
 Thailand .  Still, the investment scene in the Southeast Asian nation
“is not as bright as people had hoped it would be” and
investors “are not sure that their investment will be safe and
secure because there isn’t a rule of law,” Suu Kyi said.  The country needs clean courts, a more efficient  law
enforcement  and an independent judiciary, which is “one of the
first requirements for the rule of law,” Suu Kyi said.
Establishing a firmer rule of law will include changes to the
Myanmar constitution, she said, without giving details.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Klaus Wille in Singapore at 
 kwille@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  