-- T-Mobile’s Phone-Theft Parody Isn’t Funny to Prosecutors
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-16T20:32:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/t-mobile-draws-johnny-law-s-attention-over-phone-theft-ad.html
T-Mobile US Inc. (TMUS) ’s TV commercial
depicting a satirical smartphone robbery -- the thief doesn’t
want the device because it’s too old -- has drawn the ire of top
prosecutors in New York and San Francisco.  In a letter addressed to T-Mobile Chief Executive Officer
John Legere, New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and San
Francisco District Attorney George Gascon said the carrier
“makes a joke of the growing epidemic of smartphone theft.”
The prosecutors urged T-Mobile to pull the “tasteless” ad.  “T-Mobile is profiting from the theft of smartphones and
the victimization of its customers, and now its advertisements
are undermining the seriousness of a crime which has reached
epidemic levels,” according to the letter.  The  ad , starring former “Saturday Night Live” comedian
Bill Hader, features an attempted robbery in a parking garage.
After seeing the phone, the mugger asks Hader, “Is this the
phone you use?” and decides he doesn’t want it. Hader then
attempts to force the thief to take the phone: “It’s sweet.
Want the charger? It’s a good phone, man.”  The ad promotes T-Mobile’s Jump service, which lets
customers upgrade their phones more frequently. In a response to
the letter, the company said it actively participates in
programs to prevent real-life smartphone crime. Anne Marshall, a
spokeswoman for the Bellevue, Washington-based wireless carrier,
declined to comment on whether T-Mobile would pull the ad.  “T-Mobile takes very seriously the issue of smartphone
theft and the pain these acts can inflict on our customers and
all wireless users,” Marshall said. “This collaborative work,
including carriers, manufacturers and other parties, aims to
find new deterrents and other measures to thwart this kind of
crime across the country.”  The letter to T-Mobile was  previously reported  by CNET.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Moritz in New York at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  