-- A Threat to American Prosperity Worse Than Congress
-- B y   C l i v e   C r o o k
-- 2013-10-16T13:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/a-threat-to-american-prosperity-worse-than-congress.html
The good news from  Washington  is
that plans to extend the debt-ceiling farce into 2014 are moving
forward on a bipartisan basis. The chances that the U.S.
government may soon resume its functions temporarily and that
there’ll be no default on  U.S. sovereign debt  for as much as
several months appear to have improved.  Talk about defining success down. It’s almost enough to
make you believe in American Decline. Granted, despite
everything, the U.S. is still having a better recovery than
 Europe , so things could be worse. The trouble is, if the
country’s political class keeps this up, they will be.  Nobody denies that government by recurring fiscal crisis
puts the productive parts of the  U.S. economy  under stress and
is damaging in itself. But it’s also a distraction from other
issues that simply can’t wait. While politicians in Washington
have their hands full failing to keep the government running and
calling the nation’s creditworthiness into question, everything
else is allowed to slide. In some cases, this is a grave error.  One wonders how many U.S. political leaders have even
bothered to look at an authoritative new survey that says the
U.S. is failing -- and failing abjectly -- in an area of policy
that is crucial for prosperity. The Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development has just published the first results
from an exhaustive international  survey  of skills. It’s the most
authoritative project of its kind -- a huge undertaking,
comparing adults’ proficiency in literacy, numeracy and problem-solving across the organization’s member countries.  In effect, the survey measures the quality of human
capital, one of the crucial drivers of long-term economic
success. The U.S. performance in these rankings isn’t just poor,
it’s pitiful.  Comparing Scores  The average literacy score for Americans ages 16 to 65
places the U.S. 18th out of 22 participating countries. In
numeracy, the U.S. ranks 20th out of 22. In “problem-solving in
technology-rich environments” -- a measure of the capacity to
interact productively with computers -- the U.S. comes in 14th
out of 19.  Those results are actually quite good when compared with
the performance of adults ages 16 to 24. In literacy, young
Americans rank 20th out of 22; in numeracy, 22nd out of 22; and
in problem-solving, 19th out of 19.  The only glimmer of good news in these figures, if you can
call it good news, is that U.S. standards of literacy, numeracy
and problem-solving aren’t falling in absolute terms as fast as
the poor relative performance of U.S. youngsters might suggest.
Young Americans have slid to the bottom of the rankings mainly
because young adults in other countries are doing much better
than their predecessors did, whereas their American counterparts
aren’t. The fact remains, the capacities of the U.S. labor force
are consistently well below average, and those of the youngest
segment rank (on two out of three measures) dead last.  The range of ability in the U.S. is unusually wide, too --
which tells you something about the roots of economic
inequality. The U.S. gap between highest and lowest scores in
numeracy is bigger than in any other participating country.  The more closely you look, the more startling the U.S.
skills deficit appears. For instance, the study defines numeracy
in levels one through five. At level one, adults “can complete
tasks involving basic mathematical processes in common, concrete
contexts where the mathematical content is explicit with little
text and minimal distractors. They can perform one-step or
simple processes involving counting, sorting, basic arithmetic
operations, understanding simple percents, and locating and
identifying elements of simple or common graphical or spatial
representations.” Roughly 9 percent of American adults fail to
achieve even this level, compared with roughly 1 percent in
 Japan . Only about 8 percent of Japanese adults are at level one
or below; the figure for the U.S. is 29 percent.  Stuck Behind  One striking if not especially surprising result in the
study is that skill, or lack of skill, in numeracy, literacy and
problem-solving tend to go together. A disturbingly high
proportion of young Americans therefore lacks the ability to
break out of a vicious circle of incapacity. If you struggle to
read, do simple arithmetic and interact with the Internet, your
possibilities for meaningful self-improvement are minimal.  America’s elite universities are the best in the world and
as yet face no serious challenge. They’ll continue to produce
exceptionally able young workers who will go on to reap
commensurate rewards. But an anomalously large proportion of the
population -- and especially of young Americans -- stand at the
bottom of the advanced-economy human-capital league, and suffer
from such acute poverty of skills that they’re likely to stay
there. The tectonic economic forces that have widened  inequality 
to date are unlikely to improve their prospects, because basic
literacy, numeracy and problem-solving are also measures of
adaptability to change. Lack of these essential proficiencies
condemns them to economic insecurity, long-term unemployment and
low wages.  This is what a grave economic problem -- a clear and
present danger to U.S. prosperity and social cohesion -- looks
like. Perhaps when Washington tires of dealing with a crisis
entirely of its own devising, it might give the real thing a
moment’s thought.  (Clive Crook is a Bloomberg View columnist.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Clive Crook at  ccrook5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Gibney at   jgibney5@bloomberg.net . 