-- Abengoa Share Sale Said Offered at Up to 18% Discount
-- B y   R u t h   D a v i d ,   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   F r a n c e s c a   C i n e l l i
-- 2013-10-16T11:08:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/abengoa-share-sale-said-offered-at-up-to-18-discount.html
Abengoa SA (ABG) , a bioethanol producer
with plants in the U.S. and  Europe , is selling  shares  at 1.80
euros to 1.90 euros each as it seeks to cut debt, people
familiar with the matter said.  The company is offering  Class B stock  in the form of shares
or American Depositary Shares, to be listed in Spain and  New
York . The deal will price after the close of trading today and
the offering has received enough applications in that range to
fill the order book, according to two people, who asked not to
be named as details aren’t public.  A pricing of 1.80 euros per B share would be an 18 percent
discount to yesterday’s close. The stock fell 5.9 percent to
2.06 euros at 1:02 p.m. in Madrid today.  Abengoa filed to offer as many as 182.5 million Class B
shares, which typically have different  voting rights  to their
Class A counterparts, on Oct. 4. If the Seville, Spain-based
company sells that many shares at the mid-point of the range, it
would raise about 338 million euros ($458 million).  Abengoa, which disclosed this month that it was being
investigated as part of a European Union antitrust probe into
possible manipulation of oil and biofuel prices, said it will
use the proceeds to repay debt and strengthen its balance sheet.  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and HSBC Holdings Plc are managing the sale,
along with Bank of America Corp., Banco Santander SA, Canaccord
Genuity Group Inc. and Societe Generale SA.  The volume of additional share sales in Europe, the  Middle
East  and Africa has risen to approximately $82 billion this
year, nearly double what issuers raised in the same period in
2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ruth David in London at 
 rdavid9@bloomberg.net ;
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Francesca Cinelli in Milan at 
 fcinelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net  