-- Labour Announces Plan for Levy on Profits of U.K. Payday Lenders
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/labour-announces-plan-for-levy-on-profits-of-u-k-payday-lenders.html
U.K. opposition leader  Ed Miliband 
will say today his  Labour Party  aims to increase levies on the
profits of payday lenders such as Wonga.com Ltd. if it wins the
2015 general election.  On a visit to a credit union -- a community-run provider of
low-cost loans -- in south  London , Miliband will say he aims to
use the funds to double  government spending  available to such
unions to 26 million pounds ($41 million) a year. Labour will
consult interested groups on the details and rate of the levy.  “We would cap the cost of credit, halt the spread of
payday lenders on our high streets and force them to fund the
credit unions that can offer a real alternative for people in
desperate need,” Miliband will say, according to an e-mailed
statement from his office. “We must protect the most vulnerable
people in our society from the worst of exploitation by payday
lenders.”  Labour, which is leading Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
Conservatives in the polls, is campaigning on the cost of
living. The opposition is seeking a cap on the amount of
interest payday lenders can charge as part of a clampdown on
consumer prices, which is also targeting rail fares and energy
costs. The party would also give local authorities powers to
limit the number of payday-lending shops in town centers.  Premier’s View  Cameron said yesterday the government is “still
considering the issue of a cap, and I do not think we should
rule it out.” He told lawmakers that “we must bear in mind
what has been established in other countries, and by our own
research, about whether a cap would prove effective.”  Payday lending has doubled in three years to 2 billion
pounds, with providers charging on average 25 percent for a 30-day loan, according to the  Office of Fair Trading . Credit-card
debt costs about 1.5 percent for the same period.  Payday lending has surged in popularity since the financial
crisis as traditional banks restrict credit to the safest
borrowers.  Wonga and other lenders such as CashEuroNet UK LLC offer
short-term loans of small amounts. The average is 270 pounds and
lenders make much of their income from customers “rolling
over” debt for another month, according to the OFT.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  