-- Advance Auto to Buy General Parts for Top America Ranking
-- B y   T o m   L a v e l l
-- 2013-10-16T12:12:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/advance-auto-to-buy-general-parts-in-2-04-billion-deal.html
Advance Auto Parts Inc. (AAP)  agreed to
buy closely held General Parts International Inc., adding the
Carquest chain and entering Canada to become the biggest
retailer of car components in North America.  The all-cash acquisition, with an enterprise value of $2.04
billion, will result in annual savings and revenue improvements
of $160 million within three years after completion, Roanoke,
Virginia-based Advance Auto Parts said today in a statement. The
companies plan to close the deal by early 2014, it said.  The takeover, which was agreed to by both companies’
boards, “creates the largest automotive aftermarket parts
provider in North America, with combined sales of over $9.2
billion,” Advance Auto said. That will include becoming the
top-ranked business-to-business spare-parts online sales
platform in the region, it said.  Advance Auto hired  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  about a year ago to
evaluate strategic options, a person with knowledge of the
matter said at the time. The retailer bought Armonk, New York-based BWP Distributors Inc. in December, without disclosing a
price, to add sites in  New England  and in the Mid-Atlantic area
of the U.S.  Blackstone and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  were financial advisers
to Advance Auto on the General Parts agreement, and  Kirkland &
Ellis  were legal advisers, the retailer said today. Advisers to
Raleigh, North Carolina-based General Parts were  Wells Fargo &
Co. (WFC)  and the Orr Group for the financial terms and Manning Fulton
& Skinner PA and Smith, Anderson, Blount, Dorsett, Mitchell &
Jernigan for the legal portion.  The purchase will include General Parts’ Worldpac import
and distribution network in addition to Carquest, which has
1,246 company-operated stores and 1,418 independently owned
outlets, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Lavell in Frankfurt at 
 tlavell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  