-- Thailand Holds Key Rate as U.S. Default Deadline Approaches
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2013-10-16T08:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/thailand-holds-interest-rate-as-u-s-default-deadline-approaches.html
Thailand  kept its benchmark interest
rate unchanged for a third meeting, refraining from monetary
easing even as the threat of a U.S. default adds to growth risks
from delayed government spending and weakening local demand.  The  Bank of Thailand  held its one-day bond  repurchase rate 
at 2.5 percent, with all six monetary policy committee members
present voting in favor, it said in Bangkok today. All 18
economists in a Bloomberg News survey predicted the decision.  Senate Democratic and Republican leaders said they are
resuming negotiations toward a solution that would reopen the
U.S. government and prevent the nation from running out of
borrowing authority on Oct. 17. Thailand’s decision to hold the
rate is at odds with the Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong,
who said earlier this month it is “too high.”  “With signs the economy is bottoming out and high
household debt already factors, the U.S. default risk may have
further encouraged the BoT to hold the rate,” said Tohru Nishihama, an economist covering  emerging markets  at Dai-ichi
Life Research Institute Inc. in  Tokyo . “The government probably
wants the central bank to cut rates because of the slower
inflation and weaker growth environment, but the BoT may remain
cautious about cutting.”  The baht was little changed at 31.27 against the dollar as
of 3:56 p.m. in Bangkok. It advanced 2.9 percent against the
dollar last month, the third-best performance among Asia’s 11
most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg, after the Federal
Reserve decided to postpone tapering its monthly asset purchases,
diminishing the risk of capital outflows from emerging markets.  Forecasts Cut  The Asian Development Bank this month lowered its growth
forecasts for developing Asia, and international finance chiefs
last week warned that failure by U.S. lawmakers to resolve their
debt spat would hurt the global recovery.  Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra’s two-year-old
administration has tried to speed up budget disbursement and
boost local demand as plans to spend 2 trillion baht ($64
billion) on infrastructure and 350 billion baht on water-management projects have stalled. The budget for the fiscal year
from Oct. 1 received a court approval on Oct. 4, while the bill
to finance infrastructure projects is still in parliament.  The Thai finance ministry last month cut its forecast for
expansion this year to 3.7 percent from 4.5 percent, and for
export growth to 1.8 percent from 5.5 percent. The central bank
said it will announce its revised estimates on Oct. 25.  ‘Substantial’ Risk  “Failure to lift the debt ceiling poses a substantial risk
to global financial and economic stability,” Assistant Governor
Paiboon Kittisrikangwan said today in a statement. While the
Thai economy has begun to stabilize and the outlook points
toward a gradual growth rebound, “key downside risks stem from
uncertain global recovery as well as a delay in financial
disbursement, especially for infrastructure projects,” he said.  The government last month agreed to expand subsidies for
rice and rubber farmers to quell protests, a move seen as
undermining the government’s efforts to curb rising debt.
Falling commodity prices may increase pressure on the economy,
which unexpectedly contracted 0.3 percent in the three months
through June from the previous quarter, when it shrank by 1.7
percent, official data showed.  Total loans to Thai households rose to 9.28 trillion baht
in the quarter through end-June, compared to 8.98 trillion baht
in the previous three-month period, according to central bank
data. Second-quarter household debt was 81.5 percent of GDP,
compared with 78.9 percent in the first three months, according
to calculations by Bloomberg.  Exports (THCTEXPY)  rose 3.9 percent in August from a year earlier, the
first gain in four months.  Consumer prices  climbed 1.42 percent
in September from a year earlier, the least since Oct. 2009.  The economy will expand at least 3 percent in the third
quarter as exports revive, government spokesman Teerat
Ratanasevi said earlier today, after a meeting with official
forecaster the National Economic and Social Development Board.
The NESDB is maintaining its full-year growth forecast at 3.8
percent to 4.3 percent, Teerat said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  