-- Malaysia Keeps Palm Oil Export Tax Unchanged as Shipments Climb
-- B y   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2013-10-16T05:19:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/malaysia-keeps-palm-oil-export-tax-unchanged-as-shipments-climb.html
Malaysia , the world’s second-largest
producer, left the tax on exports of crude palm oil unchanged
for a ninth month, helping boost shipments and compete with the
biggest supplier Indonesia.  Cargoes will be taxed at 4.5 percent in November, according
to a customs statement cited by Balu Nambiappan, the Malaysian
Palm Oil Board’s head of trade development. The reference price
was set at 2,303.06 ringgit ($726) a metric ton, he said in a
phone interview. The tariff was zero in January and February
before rising to 4.5 percent in March.  Exports from Malaysia climbed for a fourth month in
September, as reduced supplies of substitutes boosted demand for
the most-consumed cooking oil, board data showed. Shipments from
 Indonesia  advanced last month for the first time since May,
according to the country’s palm oil association. Indonesia,
which last month set its export tax at 9 percent for October,
may announce next week the levy for November.  “Malaysia’s crude palm oil has an advantage compared to
Indonesia’s” as the tax remains lower, said Alan Lim Seong Chun,
an analyst at Kenanga Investment Bank Bhd. “This should bode
well for Malaysia’s exports.”  Shipments gained 6.6 percent to 781,043 tons in the first
15 days of October from the same period a month earlier,
Intertek said today. Sales rose 5.2 percent to 1.61 million tons
last month, the board said Oct. 10.  Exports from Indonesia gained 11 percent to 1.64 million
tons in September from a month earlier, the Indonesian Palm Oil
Association said Oct. 14.  Futures for delivery in December rose 0.6 percent to 2,376
ringgit a ton on the Malaysia Derivatives Exchange at the midday
close in Kuala Lumpur today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jake Lloyd-Smith at 
 jlloydsmith@bloomberg.net  