-- Alibaba Financial Arm to Boost Apps as China Net Users Go Mobile
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-16T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/alibaba-financial-arm-to-boost-apps-as-china-net-users-go-mobile.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd.’s
financial affiliate plans to add functions to its mobile apps as
users in  China  increasingly access the Internet from smartphones
and tablets.  The financial arm of China’s biggest e-commerce company
will also introduce fund products and promote a cloud-computing
service, said Lucy Peng, chief executive officer of Alibaba
Small & Micro Financial Services Group that includes the Paypal-like third party payment system Alipay.com Co.  Billionaire Jack Ma, Alibaba’s founder, is driving an
expansion into financial services by the company that runs an
online marketplace for goods from frozen mackerel to acupuncture
lasers to  Boeing Co. 737s . Alibaba is considering moving toward
a listing in the U.S. after Twitter Inc. goes public, and has
been valued by investment banks at as much as $120 billion.  “In the past three years I’ve repeatedly split and merged
sections for Alipay’s mobile business to search for a
breakthrough in innovation,” said Peng in her first press
briefing since being appointed in March as CEO of the affiliate.
“What we want is to help users complete any money-related
functions they want on the Internet.”  Alipay’s latest mobile version allows payments to be made
on vending machines for when users can’t get a mobile-phone
signal and will be open to third-party developers.  Leftover Treasure  Alibaba’s financial arm also offers a cloud computing
service, known as Ju Baopen, to finance companies. It works with
five banks and has signed cooperation deals with another 20.  Alipay began offering fund products from Tian Hong Asset
Management Co. in June on a platform called Yu’E Bao, which
translates to “leftover treasure.” Alipay users can put their
money in Yu’E Bao, which invests in funds. There’s no minimum
amount and customers can withdraw their cash anytime.  “We have to maintain the open nature of Internet
companies, and we also need to have the safe and cautious nature
of financial services,” said Peng.  Yu’E Bao attracted 2.5 million users with 5.7 billion  yuan 
($934 million) of investments by the end of June, Alipay said.  Zhejiang Alibaba E-commerce Co., the parent of Alipay, last
week said it would pay 1.18 billion yuan to buy control of Tian
Hong.  Shareholder Information  The new fund products will come from third parties, Peng
said, declining to identify them.  Alibaba Small & Micro Financial Services Group is being
restructured and its shareholder information will be disclosed
“soon,” said Peng. She said the company is registered in China
using the name Zhejiang Alibaba E-commerce Co. and declined to
elaborate.  Peng said the company has five business units: domestic，
international，shared platform，innovative financial business and
financial management.  Alibaba Small and Micro Financial Services Group contained
two loan companies as of July, as well as Alipay, which has more
than 800 million registered accounts.  Peng is one of the co-founders of Alibaba, which was formed
in 1999. She was CEO of Alipay from 2010 to 2013, and until this
year was also Chief People Officer of Alibaba, a post she held
for more than a decade.  She earned a degree in business administration from
Zhejiang Gongshang University in 1994 and taught at Zhejiang
University of Finance and Economics.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Lulu Yilun Chen in  Hong Kong  at 
 ychen447@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  