-- Allianz Says Capital Rules Fuel Artificial Risk Pricing
-- B y   O l i v e r   S u e s s   a n d   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2013-10-16T04:01:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/allianz-says-capital-rules-fuel-artificial-pricing-of-bond-risk.html
Michael Diekmann, chief executive
officer of  Allianz SE (ALV) ,  Europe ’s biggest insurer, said capital
rules that encourage financial companies to invest in sovereign
bonds are thwarting a solution to the continent’s debt burden.  Investments in infrastructure can revive productivity and
boost growth in nations struggling to meet obligations to
creditors, Diekmann said. Regulations instead promote bets on
government debt that are distorting markets and contributing to
a cycle of borrowing, he said.  “We’re getting to a sort of artificial pricing of risk,”
in bond markets, Diekmann, 58, said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg headquarters in New York.  Insurers are working to maintain returns on bond holdings
as stimulus efforts depress yields and regulations limit
investing options after the financial crisis. Allianz had 456
billion euros ($617 billion) of fixed-income  investments  tied to
insurance units as of June 30. That’s 90 percent of a portfolio
that also includes equities and real estate.  Of the insurer’s 170 billion euros in government and
government-related debt securities,  France  represented 20
percent,  Italy  17 percent and  Germany  16 percent, according to a
 presentation  on the Munich-based company’s website.  “The facts are more pessimistic for Europe, because
there’s not much done about state debt,” said Diekmann, who was
named CEO in 2003. “At some point in time, people will have to
give a clear answer. So far the answer is we’re going to grow
out of the problem.”  ‘Highly Unlikely’  That would mean a country like Germany would need 3 percent
to 4 percent growth with inflation increasing at the same rate,
he said.  Spain  or Italy would need growth of at least 5 percent
and “that’s all highly unlikely,” he said. Economic growth is
projected to be 1.8 percent next year in Germany, 0.6 percent in
Spain and 0.5 percent in Italy, according to economic estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Diekmann said so-called bail-in laws, which could enforce
creditor losses in  bank failures , are discouraging his company
from investing in lenders as well.  “Bond prices are not reflecting the risks,” he said.
“Everything that can get bailed in, we have to pull out, be it
nations or even the whole banking systems,” Diekmann said.  Allianz has instead turned to corporate debt issued by
industrial companies that will benefit in growing markets, he
said. The insurer has also made investments ranging from wind
parks in northern France to parking meters in  Chicago .  Axa, Generali  France’s  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s second-biggest insurer, has been
increasing bets on corporate bonds and infrastructure debt,
helping hold the company’s portfolio yield steady, CEO Henri de Castries said in an interview in September. Infrastructure can
include bridges, toll roads and airports.  Italy’s  Assicurazioni Generali SpA (G) , Europe’s third-biggest
insurer, plans to boost its investments in infrastructure debt
and real estate as it cuts liquidity to raise profitability,
Chief Investment Officer Nikhil Srinivasan said in an interview
this month.  Diekmann, who was in the U.S. to meet with investors, said
he will discuss with shareholders how requirements tied to some
of the company’s favored investments, such as real estate and
infrastructure financing, can make it harder to lift dividends.  The insurer kept the  payout  for 2012 stable at 4.50 euros a
share, representing  40 percent  of profits. The insurer’s next
dividend is expected to be 5.20 euros per share, according to
 Bloomberg projections .  Regulators also need to be persuaded about the benefits of
infrastructure financing, according to Diekmann. He suggested
that banks could be counted on for short-term lending while
insurers and pension funds could provide funds for longer
durations.  “There’s a void now for these long investments, and that’s
a huge opportunity to get the interest of life insurers and the
taxpayers in sync,” Diekmann said. “Unfortunately we’re not
there yet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Oliver Suess in Munich at 
 osuess@bloomberg.net ;
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  