-- Amarin’s Fish Oil Pill Fails to Win U.S. Panel’s Backing
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-16T20:03:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/amarin-s-fish-oil-pill-fails-to-win-u-s-panel-s-backing.html
Amarin’s  fish-oil  pill Vascepa
failed to win the backing of U.S. advisers to significantly
expand its use for those with high levels of fat in their blood.  Amarin should complete a study on the drug’s ability to
benefit the heart before an approval decision for patients with
high triglycerides, a Food and Drug Administration advisory
panel voted 9-2 today in  Silver Spring ,  Maryland . The FDA is
scheduled to decide whether to clear the drug for wider use by
Dec. 20. The agency doesn’t have to follow the panel’s advice.  The FDA approved the prescription-grade omega-3 fatty acid
last year to treat “very high” triglycerides, a measure of fat
in the blood. Expanded approval would give Dublin-based Amarin
access to 36 million potential U.S. customers who have elevated
triglycerides, or nine times the pool of people with severely
high levels. The company is seeking to treat high triglyceride
patients on statin therapy who have low levels of good
cholesterol and coronary  heart disease .  “Let’s see the results in an outcomes trial,” Peter
Wilson, a panel member and professor at Emory University’s
School of Medicine in Atlanta, said during the meeting. “That’s
really where the proof is, in the pudding, in my view.”  FDA Staff  FDA staff  questioned  Oct. 11 whether Vascepa’s lipid-lowering effects were sufficient to move ahead with approval
based on recent clinical trials and meta-analyses that have
failed to confirm a heart benefit from the lipid lowering.
Triglycerides and cholesterol are separate types of lipids, or
fat in the blood, according to the  Mayo Clinic .  Amarin, run from Bedminster,  New Jersey , declined 20
percent Oct. 11 after the release of the staff’s report, the
biggest one-day drop for the company’s American depositary
receipts in more than three years. Trading was halted today
during the panel’s meeting.  The FDA originally agreed with Amarin in 2008 that the
company needed only to have the cardiovascular outcomes trial
under way, not completed, when it sought approval for people
with high triglycerides.  “The critical question which patients care about is,
ultimately, will the observed changes in lipids/lipoproteins
with Vascepa treatment in statin-treated patients translate into
a benefit on cardiovascular outcomes,” Mary Roberts, a medical
officer at FDA, said during the meeting. “This question is not
new, but now we have more data.”  Study’s Cost  Amarin is studying Vascepa’s ability to reduce
cardiovascular events, the results of which probably won’t be
available until 2016, Steve Ketchum, president of research and
development, said. Ketchum also said completing the study will
cost Amarin “triple-digit millions of dollars.”  Sales of Vascepa, the company’s sole product, may reach
$1.2 billion in 2017, according to the average of five analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s revenue is
estimated to total $36 million this year.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s fish oil pill Lovaza was approved in
2004 for patients with very high triglycerides. Very high
triglyceride levels measure at least 500 milligrams per
deciliter. High triglycerides are those from 200 milligrams to
500 milligrams per deciliter.  Stores such as  GNC Holdings Inc. (GNC)  and  Vitamin Shoppe Inc. (VSI) 
sell non-prescription dietary supplements containing fish oil.
It would take 10 to 40 of such omega-3 capsules to equal the
pure fatty acid obtained from “wild deep-water  Pacific Ocean 
fish,” according to the company’s website for Vascepa.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  