-- Amazon Said to Be in Talks With HTC Since June on Prime Handsets
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2013-10-16T16:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/amazon-said-in-talks-with-htc-since-june-on-prime-handset-plans.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s biggest
e-commerce company, and  HTC Corp. (2498)  have been in talks since at
least June to develop handsets for sale to users of the Amazon
Prime service, according to two people familiar with the talks.  A final decision hasn’t been made on whether to proceed
with a product or when it would be delivered, the people said,
asking to not be identified because the talks are private.
Amazon wants to increase the number of devices that can access
its Amazon Instant Video service and seeks to sell phones
through subscriptions with carriers, one of the people said.  Amazon Prime , introduced in 2005 as a fast-shipping
service, has developed into a platform for streaming and
downloading media, including movies and television shows. Amazon
started working with Foxconn Technology Group last year on a
smartphone that would enable customers to view its content,
 Bloomberg News  reported in July 2012.  Three devices are being discussed by Amazon and HTC, the
Financial Times reported earlier, citing people familiar with
the project it didn’t name.  “HTC doesn’t comment on rumors and speculation,” the
Taoyuan, Taiwan-based company said in an e-mailed response
yesterday. Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon,
didn’t return a request for comment.  Apart from its own Kindle Fire tablets, Amazon Instant
Video is compatible with  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad, iPhone and iPod as
well as a range of televisions, media players and computers,
according to its  website .  HTC, which worked with  Facebook Inc. (FB)  to develop the HTC
First handset featuring the social-network company’s Home
software, also is helping Amazon broaden its hardware beyond the
Kindle devices.  Amazon’s Herdener said last month the company has no plans
to introduce a phone this year, and if it were to offer a
handset it wouldn’t be free.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 