-- American Express Profit Increases 9.3% on Card Spending
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-17T04:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/american-express-profit-beats-estimates-as-card-spending-climbs.html
American Express Co. (AXP) , the biggest
credit-card issuer by purchases, reported a third-quarter  profit 
that beat analysts’ estimates as customer spending climbed.  Net income rose 9.3 percent to $1.37 billion, or $1.25 a
share, from $1.25 billion, or $1.09, in the same period a year
earlier, the New York-based company said yesterday in a
statement. That beat the $1.22 average  estimate  of 26 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Net revenue rose 5.6 percent to $8.3
billion, the company said.  Chief Executive Officer Kenneth I. Chenault is cutting
5,400 jobs this year, mostly in travel services, and plans to
spin off part of that business. The firm also is vying to drive
more spending to its global payments network, signing a deal in
August with Wells Fargo & Co., which will issue AmEx-branded
cards and give the San Francisco-based bank more options to
reward customers for their loyalty.  “Despite an uncertain environment, we generated a healthy
increase in revenues and stronger card member spending across
all regions this quarter,” Chenault, 62, said in the statement.
Card loans “continued the modest growth rates we have been
seeing for the past several quarters,” he said.  American Express rose 25 cents to $76.57 in extended
trading in New York yesterday after results were announced. The
shares climbed 33 percent this year through the close of regular
trading, outpacing the 17 percent advance for the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average. (INDU)   Rewards Program  “AmEx operates the most stable rewards program, best
positioned to continue to create value for both consumers and
shareholders for years to come,” Bill Carcache, an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc., said last month in a research note. “Even
in the face of aggressive competitor reward campaigns, we expect
AmEx to continue to outperform.”  The lender, which issued its first traveler’s check  in
1891 , is cutting jobs as consumers and businesses rely more on
digital technology for bookings. Travel commissions and fees
rose 5.4 percent in the third quarter from a year earlier,
reversing a decline in the preceding three-month period,
according to a financial  supplement .  The company has been in talks to spin off half of its
business-travel unit and create a joint venture with Certares
International Bank LLC. An investor group led by Certares would
inject $700 million to $1 billion in return for a 50 percent
stake, AmEx said in a Sept. 25 statement.  Billed Business  Worldwide card spending, or billed business, rose 7.3
percent to $236.2 billion, AmEx said. Individuals spent an
average of $4,037 in the quarter, a 3.9 percent increase from a
year earlier. Provisions for loan losses increased 3 percent to
$492 million, AmEx said.  Total expenses climbed 5.3 percent to $5.81 billion in the
quarter from the prior year. Operating expenses were little
changed in the first nine months of the year compared with the
same period in 2012, according to AmEx. Chenault has said he’s
seeking to limit annual operating expense growth to 3 percent.  U.S. card income rose 12 percent to $782 million from the
same period a year earlier, according to the statement.
International card income fell 13 percent to $142 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in New York at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  