-- America Movil Withdraws $9.7 Billion Takeover Offer for KPN
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-16T21:59:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/america-movil-withdraws-offer-for-shares-of-dutch-carrier-kpn.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL)  withdrew its 7.2
billion-euro ($9.7 billion) offer for shares of  Royal KPN NV (KPN) 
after talks broke down with the Dutch phone carrier, striking a
blow to billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s European strategy.  America Movil won’t proceed with the 2.40-euros-a-share
tender offer even though it received authorization from the
Dutch financial-markets regulator, it said today in a filing.
The Mexico City-based company determined it would be impossible
to meet its goal of expanding its stake to more than 50 percent.  The decision is a setback for Slim’s company in its plan to
expand beyond  Latin America , where wireless growth has slowed,
by acquiring assets in  Europe  in a bet on the continent’s demand
for high-speed wireless Internet. An independent foundation, set
up to protect the interests of KPN’s stakeholders, impeded
America Movil’s offer by using a protective measure to
temporarily gain about half of KPN’s stock.  “America Movil outside of Latin America and specifically
in Europe is really struggling to do good value-adding deals,”
said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.
in  London . She has the equivalent of a sell rating on Slim’s
company and a buy on KPN.  America Movil  jumped  3.2 percent to 14.02 pesos at the
close in Mexico City, the highest price since Aug. 8. The Hague-based KPN rose 0.5 percent to 2.43 euros at the close in
Amsterdam, before America Movil announced its decision.  Remaining Stake  America Movil still holds about 15 percent of the voting
equity of KPN. That would represent a  stake  of 30 percent in the
total company if the foundation revokes its protective measure,
restoring the Dutch carrier to its normal amount of shares
outstanding.  In its talks with KPN and the foundation,  America Movil 
made proposals on corporate governance, employment, social
policies, national security and minority shareholder protection,
Slim’s company said. KPN refused to address those proposals
unless America Movil raised its price, the company said.  “KPN’s shareholders should be the ones to decide whether
the price offered is fair,” the company said. “They should
have had the option to sell their shares.”  Ward Snijders, a KPN spokesman, said the company is
studying America Movil’s statement, as did Jeroen Beekman, a
spokesman for the Dutch economic affairs ministry. Talks with
the Dutch government on national security and employment were
constructive, America Movil said.  Only Facilitating  The  foundation  only tried to facilitate the negotiations
and didn’t block the deal, said Walter Samuels, a spokesman for
the independent group.  “The actions taken by the foundation are detrimental not
only to all KPN shareholders –- including those who wished to
participate in the intended offer –- but also detrimental to
clients, employees and other stakeholders of KPN who envisioned
being part of a solid company with long-term vision,” America
Movil said.  The companies failed to reach an agreement even after
America Movil helped KPN negotiate a better price from
 Telefonica SA (TEF)  for its German unit, E-Plus. After discussions
with Slim’s company, Madrid-based Telefonica agreed in August
its bid for the KPN unit to 8.55 billion euros from 8.1 billion
euros. A Telefonica press official declined to comment today.
The transaction is awaiting regulatory approval.  KPN had argued that a tax offset from the sale of E-Plus
makes the company more valuable, people with knowledge of the
discussions said earlier, asking not to be identified because
the talks were private.  Lacking Understanding?  KPN was seeking as much as 3 euros a share from America
Movil, Bienenstock said.  “They came in to make an offer for a company without fully
understanding the rules of the market,” she said.  The foundation had criticized America Movil for not
reaching an agreement with KPN’s management before taking its
offer to the market. Still, price was the reason negotiations
fell apart, America Movil said.  “I don’t think this results from their lack of experience
in Europe, but more as a divergence in valuation,” said
Alejandro Gallostra, an analyst at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya
Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in Mexico City. He has the equivalent of a sell
rating on America Movil.  KPN rival  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  has also deflected a foreign takeover
attempt. The cable-television company, based in Ultrecht,
 Netherlands , said today that shareholder Liberty Global Plc made
an “inadequate” offer for the rest of its shares, and it’s
uncertain whether it will receive an improved bid.  While America Movil probably won’t sell its current stake
in KPN in the near future, it may seek other options to acquire
assets in Europe, including adding to its holding of shares in
 Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , Bienenstock said.  “Probably makes everyone wonder whether he goes after
 Telekom Austria  instead,” she said. “That would be a rational
thing to do.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  