-- Apollo Firming Stance in Energy Future Talks: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h a r l e s   M e a d   a n d   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2013-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/apollo-firming-stance-in-energy-future-talks-corporate-finance.html
A group of Energy Future Holdings
Corp. secured creditors including  Apollo Global Management LLC (APO) 
is breaking from competing lenders as it seeks to squeeze value
out of the electricity provider in a debt restructuring.  Apollo, along with Centerbridge Capital Partners LLC and
Oaktree Capital Group LLC, have committed to another week of
negotiations to resolve how investors will carve up ownership of
the former TXU Corp., according to a regulatory filing yesterday
and people with knowledge of the discussions. Junior debtholders
including York Capital Management LP have pulled out of
confidential talks, the people said.  The filing sheds new light on how investors are positioning
themselves for a potential bankruptcy filing by Nov. 1 for
Texas’s largest electricity provider. After investing $8 billion
to take control of TXU in 2007 in the biggest leveraged buyout
in history, owners KKR & Co., TPG Capital and Goldman Sachs
Capital Partners may see their equity stake collapse to less
than 5 percent under one proposal described in the disclosure.  “There are so many parts of the  capital structure  and so
many competing interests, it’s going to make any negotiation
difficult,” Marc Gross, a  money manager  at RS Investments in
New York who oversees $3.5 billion, said in an e-mail. “There’s
never enough value to go around no matter what the recovery in
any bankruptcy.”  Three Proposals  The filing outlines three proposals and highlights a rift
between some owners of $1.48 billion of 11.25 percent, unsecured
payment-in-kind notes linked to Energy Future’s regulated
business and investors in more than $20 billion of first-lien
debt contained in an unregulated subsidiary.  Holders of Energy Future Intermediate Holding’s so-called
PIK notes, which can pay interest with additional debt, proposed
receiving $1.45 billion of cash and a $100 million note that
doesn’t pay interest, according to the filing.  That conflicts with an offer from secured lenders to Texas
Competitive Electric Holdings who allocated $800 million in cash
to split among the PIK bondholders, additional unsecured
creditors and private-equity sponsors. The first-lien group
includes Centerbridge, Apollo and Oaktree, according to people
familiar with the talks who asked not to be identified, citing
lack of authorization to speak publicly.  Undervalued Stake  The PIK lenders include York, Avenue Capital Group LLC and
P. Schoenfeld Asset Management LP, one of the people said. That
group, which owns less than two-thirds of the bonds, walked away
from talks while directing “their advisors to continue to work
with the companies and their advisors to explore further whether
the parties can reach an agreement,” the filing shows.  The group may have exited negotiations because they thought
their stake was being undervalued, according to Sarah Gefter, a
distressed-debt analyst at Reorg Research.  “The Energy Future Intermediate PIK is one of the
strongest classes of creditors,” with the one of the best
negotiating positions, she said in a telephone interview. “They
have a fundamentally different view on value. They think they
should get par based on the value of Energy Future Intermediate
or more than par.”  Allan Koenig , a spokesman at Energy Future, declined to
comment on the reorganization discussions, as did  Andrea
Williams , a spokeswoman for Oaktree, Mary Beth Grover, a
spokeswoman for York Capital at the Abernathy MacGregor Group
and Catherine Jones, a spokeswoman for Schoenfeld at ASC
Advisors LLC.  First-Lien Price  Fran McGill, a spokesman for Apollo at Rubenstein
Associates, Todd Fogarty, a spokesman for Avenue Capital at
Kekst & Co., and a representative for Centerbridge also declined
to comment.  The 11.25 percent bonds due December 2018 traded at 77.25
cents on the dollar Sept. 13 to yield 18.2 percent, according to
Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority. A $15.4 billion first-lien  term loan  due
2017 was valued at 67.7 cents yesterday, according to prices
compiled by Bloomberg.  The power provider has struggled to reduce debt since it
was taken over in a $48 billion deal six years ago. The
leveraged buyout left Energy Future with more than $40 billion
of obligations in an unsuccessful bet natural gas prices would
rise.  How much of a reorganized Energy Future the private-equity
owners would retain is another point disputed in the three
proposals.  Third Plan  The company is due to make about $270 million in interest
payments Nov. 1 -- cash first-lien lenders want the company to
retain by filing for bankruptcy.  The restructuring of Energy Future won’t change any
operations,  customer service  or involve cutting jobs or employee
benefits, according to a company letter sent to staff today
obtained by  Bloomberg News , the contents of which were confirmed
by Koenig, the company spokesman.  A third plan, from a “significant creditor” with claims
linked to multiple units, proposed that the Texas Competitive
Electric Holdings lenders receive 94.2 percent of the equity in
the parent company and about $8 billion of cash while unsecured
Energy Future Intermediate Holding bondholders would get “par
recovery over time,” the filing shows.  That plan allotted 2 percent of the new equity plus 2
percent of a new tracking stock to the current sponsors.
Private-equity owners said in April they’d support a deal that
let them retain a 15 percent stake in the company.  All of the plans would keep the company and its units
together post-Chapter 11.  “Because it’s such a complicated structure with so many
layers, it’s impossible to get everybody on the same page,”
said Robert Grimm, head of corporate trading at Odeon Capital
Group LLC in  New York .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  