-- Marchionne Pins Alfa Romeo Revival on Chrysler’s Cash
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-10-17T12:51:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/marchionne-pins-alfa-romeo-revival-on-chrysler-s-cash.html
Ever since Sergio Marchionne snuck
in to see the “The Graduate” as an underage teen in the 1960s,
he’s had a soft spot for Alfa Romeo, the maker of the Spider
Duetto convertible Dustin Hoffman’s character drove in the film.  Four decades later, Marchionne is the chief executive
officer of Alfa Romeo’s parent  Fiat SpA (F)  and wants to return the
struggling brand to its former glory. To pull it off, he needs
cash from Fiat-controlled Chrysler Group LLC. The problem is he
hasn’t found a way to get it, as a union trust that owns the
remaining shares holds out for at least $1 billion more than the
CEO wants to pay.  Unlocking Chrysler’s $12 billion piggy bank is about more
than just refreshing Alfa Romeo and fulfilling the dreams of a
“young idiot,” as Marchionne, 61, called himself as a teenager
in  Canada . Fiat’s ability to recover from losses in Europe
depends on combining with Chrysler and accessing the American
company’s resources to fund long-delayed new vehicles and stop a
downward spiral in its home region.  “Marchionne is facing the most difficult moment since Fiat
took over Chrysler,” said Giuseppe Berta, a professor at
Bocconi University in Milan. “He’s in a hurry to complete the
merger as soon as possible to invest in new models in Europe.”  Production Delay  Alfa Romeo has long been a cornerstone of Marchionne’s
strategy for Fiat. The plan is to transform the 103-year-old
Italian carmaker, which currently sells only two hatchbacks and
a small sports car, into a global upscale brand to spin off
profits similar to the way Audi does for Volkswagen.  The effort has failed to make much progress as Marchionne
put spending at Fiat on hold to conserve cash amid Europe’s six-year slump and focused instead on turning around Chrysler after
rescuing the manufacturer from bankruptcy in 2009.  Fiat will likely delay two new Alfa Romeo models that were
planned for next year to 2015, according to two people familiar
with the matter, who asked not to be identified as the matter is
private. The Italian carmaker may finalize plans by the first
quarter of 2014 to build new Alfa Romeos at the Cassino factory
in southern  Italy , the people said. A Fiat representative
declined to comment.  The lack of investment has caught up with Fiat. Burdened by
struggles in Europe, the Turin, Italy-based company posted a
loss of 482 million euros ($653 million) in the first half,
excluding Chrysler. The group, including Alfa Romeo and the
namesake brand, sold fewer cars in its home region last month
than both the luxury Audi and BMW brands, even though Fiat is a
mass-market manufacturer.  ‘Doing Badly’  “Marchionne does things well at Chrysler and badly at
Fiat,”  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  Chairman Ferdinand Piech told Bloomberg
News during an event in Vienna this month. Based on its current
performance, Fiat “isn’t capable of surviving” on its own,
said the executive, who has publicly sparred with Marchionne and
has expressed interest in taking over Alfa Romeo in the past.
Fiat declined to comment on Piech’s remarks.  The company, which reports third-quarter earnings and plans
to give an update on targets on Oct. 30, is expected to report
2013 operating profit of 3.81 billion euros, according to
 estimates  of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. That would miss
Fiat’s forecast of 4 billion euros to 4.5 billion euros.  Missing Targets  The carmaker’s struggles in Europe has hit plans for Alfa
Romeo. Last year, Marchionne scaled back a mid-term sales target
for the brand by 40 percent. Fiat now forecasts sales of 300,000
Alfa Romeo cars by 2016, compared with a 2010 forecast for
500,000 autos by 2014.  The brand is due to miss even the lowered goal by 36
percent. IHS Automotive estimates that Alfa Romeo will deliver
81,000 vehicles next year and 192,000 in 2016. Audi, VW’s
biggest profit contributor, sold 1.18 million cars in the first
nine months of this year.  “If Marchionne really wants to relaunch Alfa Romeo, he
needs Chrysler’s cash,” said Bocconi’s Berta, who was the
former director of Fiat’s archives. “The carmaker has to invest
billions of euros in the brand as VW did with Audi.”  Fiat intends to boost total  investment  by at least 1
billion euros next year to as much as 9.5 billion euros. The
higher spending is part of the development of about 19 new
models in Europe in the next three years, including eight Alfa
Romeos. That would be tough for the Italian company to finance
without help from Chrysler.  Cash Burn  “Fiat needs to generate cash to invest in new models and
be competitive, but the cash flow they’re generating is not
enough,” said Falk Frey, a Frankfurt-based analyst at Moody’s.  Fiat is due to burn through about 1.3 billion euros in cash
this year, according to estimates from analysts at Sanford C.
Bernstein. Chrysler targets adding $1 billion to its coffers.  Pooling cash with Chrysler would boost Fiat’s financing
potential and is a key driver behind Marchionne’s push to buy
the remaining 41.5 percent stake from a United Auto Workers’
retiree health-care trust. The union fund is requiring Chrysler
to prepare for an initial public offering as it feuds with Fiat
over the stake’s valuation.  The lure of Chrysler’s cash could lead Fiat to pay a price
that requires it to sell new shares to fund the deal, Barclays
analysts including Kristina Church said today in a report.  Even if the two sides agree on a deal and avoid an IPO,
Fiat wouldn’t have full access to Chrysler’s cash because of
covenants on some of the American carmaker’s debt, which
restrict use of the company’s funds. Chrysler Chief Financial
Officer Richard Palmer said in July that buying back the debt
wouldn’t make sense before 2015 at the earliest.  New Roadster  Still, Alfa Romeo isn’t totally at a standstill. The brand
has started taking orders for the 4C sports car, which will hit
U.S. showrooms as soon as April next year, as part of a plan to
return to North America after an absence of almost 20 years.  Alfa Romeo will also make a modern version of the roadster
that Dustin Hoffman’s wayward graduate drove in the 1967 film.
The car will be built in cooperation with  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  and
hit showrooms in 2015. Alfa Romeo CEO Harald Wester sees cause
for optimism.  “I can just tell you that I expect demand for the 4C to
exceed planned production,” Wester, who is also in charge of
Maserati’s plan to boost sales eightfold by 2015, said in Milan
this week, declining to elaborate on the brand’s broader plans.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  