-- Areva Said Ready to Join Group Building U.K. Nuclear Power Plant
-- B y   T a r a   P a t e l   a n d   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2013-10-16T15:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/areva-said-ready-to-join-group-building-u-k-nuclear-power-plant.html
Areva SA (AREVA) ,  France ’s state-owned
reactor builder, plans to join the group constructing the U.K.’s
first nuclear power plant since 1995, three people with
knowledge of the matter said.  Areva will take a stake in the Hinkley Point project from
 Electricite de France SA , the people said, asking not to be
identified before an announcement is made. China General Nuclear
Power Corp. will also become a shareholder, the people said.
Areva and EDF’s boards will meet in the next week to approve the
deal, they said.  Bringing in Areva and China General as partners will allow
EDF to share the expense of a project likely to cost about 14
billion pounds ($22 billion). The EDF-led group, expected to
sign an agreement with the U.K. government next week, will build
two Areva-designed EPR reactors able to supply about 3,600
megawatts, more than 4 percent of U.K. generation capacity.  Officials at EDF and Areva declined to comment. Nobody at
China General was available to comment outside office hours.  Areva, the world’s largest reactor builder, was the first
company to start construction of the EPR, leading a project in
 Finland  beset by cost overruns and delays. Since then Areva has
been a supplier to EDF ventures in China and France without
being a shareholder and has struggled to find its own projects.  Under previous Chief Executive Officer  Anne Lauvergeon ,
Areva lost a bid to develop EPRs in  Abu Dhabi . Last year, Areva
and China Nuclear had considered a joint bit for Horizon,
another venture seeking to build U.K. reactors. The current CEO
Luc Oursel plans to get orders for 10 EPRs by the end of 2016.  The U.K. and EDF are close to an agreement to build the
Hinkley Point reactors based on a guaranteed power price of 93
pounds a megawatt-hour, a government official said last week.
That’s almost double the average 49 pounds a megawatt-hour power
traded for in the wholesale market over the past 12 months.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Patel in Paris at 
 tpatel2@bloomberg.net ;
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  