-- Marine Corps Marathon in Jeopardy Due to Government Shutdown
-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 2013-10-16T14:23:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/marine-corps-marathon-in-jeopardy-if-government-shutdown-goes-on.html
The 38th  Marine Corps Marathon , the
world’s largest race without prize money, may be canceled if the
U.S. government shutdown doesn’t end.  Marathon officials last night told the 30,000 runners that
a final determination on the 26.2-mile (42.2-kilometer) run
through downtown  Washington  will be made by Oct. 19. The race is
scheduled to take place Oct. 27.  “Since the government shutdown occurred, the Marine Corps
Marathon continues its coordination with hopes of a conclusion
in time to host the event without impact,” director Rick Nealis
said on the marathon’s website. “Without a resolution to the
government shutdown this week, the MCM as planned is in jeopardy
of being canceled.”  The marathon, the fourth-largest U.S. race and ninth in the
world, sold out in two hours, 27 minutes in March.  “It is sincerely the hope of everyone associated with the
organization that MCM participants can run as planned,” Nealis
wrote.  Last year, 889 runners out of 23,519 finishers in the
Marine Corps Marathon qualified for the Boston Marathon, the
only mass participation race that requires qualifying times.  This year’s marathon will feature a flatter course and a
new approach to the U.S. Capitol. It eliminates a stretch that
forced runners to scale a 150-foot grade around the Georgetown
Reservoir between miles seven and eight.  The course passes the Washington Monument, and the Lincoln
and Jefferson memorials, which were closed when the government
was shut down Oct. 1.  2012 Winners  Senate leaders resumed talks aimed at avoiding a U.S.
default and ending the 15-day-old shutdown last night after the
Republican-controlled House scrapped a vote on its plan.  Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat, and Minority Leader
 Mitch McConnell , a Republican, must reach a final agreement, get
all 100 senators to permit an expedited vote and persuade House
Speaker  John Boehner  to allow a vote that would pass largely
with Democratic support.  Augustus Maiyo of  Colorado Springs ,  Colorado , was last
year’s men’s winner, covering the distance in two hours, 20
minutes, 20 seconds. Hirut Guanqul of Ellicott City,  Maryland ,
was the first woman to cross the finish line in 2:42:03.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  