-- Harper Says Canada to Soon Complete Europe Trade Pact
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-16T17:37:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/harper-says-canada-to-soon-complete-europe-trade-pact.html
Canadian and European negotiators
have reached an agreement in principle on a free trade pact,
officials from both sides who are familiar with the matter said,
speaking on condition they not be identified because the pact
hasn’t been made public.  The agreement has been sent to Canada’s provinces for
approval, the Canadian official said. Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  told lawmakers today his government will soon complete a
free trade agreement with the European Union as part of efforts
to expand exports and fuel growth.  News of the almost completed trade pact comes on the day
Harper releases a mid-term update of his government’s agenda,
which will include steps to sustain economic expansion by
promoting exports and investments and additional measures to
lower phone and cable bills for consumers. The so-called Speech
from the Throne is scheduled for about 5 p.m. Ottawa time,
marking the opening of a new legislative session.  “We must keep our eye on the long term,” Harper said in
comments to lawmakers, according to remarks provided to
reporters by the Prime Minister’s office. “For  Canada  to
prosper through the challenges of this uncertain world, we must
do more.”  Harper has sought to diversify the nation’s trade away from
the U.S. to fuel the recovery as the world’s 11th largest
economy struggles to build momentum, in part because of weak
exports. Canada has averaged annualized quarterly growth rates
of 1.3 percent since the start of 2012, down from 3 percent in
2010 and 2011, according to Statistics Canada data. The economy
has added 113,100 jobs so far this year, on pace for its second
worst annual result in the past decade.  Negotiations Dragging  With European trade negotiations dragging into a fifth
year, Canadian executives have been warning that Harper was
running out of time to complete an agreement amid concern that
talks with the U.S. will leapfrog Canada as a priority for
 Europe . Canada’s largest manufacturing  lobby group  called on
provincial leaders today to back the agreement.  “Canadian manufacturers and exporters hope that we can
count on your support when negotiations are finally concluded,”
the Ottawa-based group said in an open letter to provincial
premiers. It is “a critically important agreement.”  The pact includes doubling the amount of European cheese
that can be imported into Canada, the National Post newspaper
reported, without saying how it obtained the information.  Throne Speech  Harper sought to break a deadlock over issues such as beef
and dairy exports by stepping up his involvement in
negotiations, people familiar with the strategy said in
September.  A successful trade pact with the EU could help Harper
burnish his reputation as a competent economic manager, an
advantage he holds over his rivals. Even as the ruling
Conservatives have fallen in public opinion polls amid an
expenses scandal implicating some of his lawmakers, Harper
continues to have an edge on economic issues, surveys show.  An agreement would also bolster the EU’s efforts to
negotiate a deal with the U.S., which would be the largest trade
pact in history.  EU Trade Commission Karel De Gucht said in
September the talks, which began in May 2009, were in the final
stage. “Sometimes it happens that the final stage is not so
easy,” he told reporters in Brussels. “So we have still a
difference of opinion on a very limited thing, but one thing
that is considered to be very important by both sides and where
we have to find the right balance.”  Significant Differences  Harper met European Commission President  Jose Barroso  on
the sidelines of the Group of 20 leaders summit in  St.
Petersburg ,  Russia . Harper told reporters following the Sept. 6
meeting that “significant” differences remain in the
negotiations.  Canadian companies such as Toronto-based insurer  Manulife
Financial Corp. (MFC)  and  Montreal ’s commercial-jet maker  Bombardier
Inc. (BBD/B)  have backed an agreement, while European companies
including engineering conglomerate  Siemens AG (SIE)  of Munich and
London-based miner  Rio Tinto Plc (RIO)  are supportive.  Canada has relatively more to gain from a deal, according
to a joint  study  released in 2008 by the Canada and the European
Commission. An agreement would increase annual Canadian gross
domestic product by 8.2 billion euros ($11.1 billion),
equivalent at the time to about 0.77 percent of the country’s
output, the study found. The EU economy would increase its
annual output by 11.6 billion euro, or 0.08 percent.  Beef Shipments  While the EU bought 8.9 percent of Canadian exports in
2012, Canada represented 1.9 percent of total EU exports,
according to  Statistics Canada  and Eurostat data. The U.S.
received three-quarters of Canada’s exports in August.  Canada wanted its beef producers to be allowed to export
more than 40,000 metric tons to Europe, according to Matthias
Brinkmann, former EU ambassador to Canada.  Greater concessions on beef will help Harper sell an
agreement to Canadians that may increase the cost of
 prescription drugs  by expanding patent protection for European
pharmaceutical companies, harm Canadian dairy farmers and take
away power from cities and provinces to choose suppliers for
procurement projects.  For its part, the EU wants to use a Canadian free trade
agreement as a template for its trade talks with the U.S.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  