-- Januzaj Is Ready to Choose England, Mail Says: Soccer Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-17T07:37:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/arsenal-prepares-new-january-bid-for-benzema-sun-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Januzaj Considers England  Manchester United’s teenage winger Adnan Januzaj will
choose to represent  England  as his national team if the Football
Association can get around the five-year residency rule, the
 Daily Mail reported .  Januzaj, born in  Belgium  to Kosovar-Albanian parents, is
eligible to play for four other countries and English soccer’s
governing body may challenge the current rules concerning
international clearance, the newspaper said. He has another
three years to wait under the current system, the Mail added.  Mancini Wants Nani  Galatasaray manager Roberto Mancini is ready to offer 13
million pounds ($20.7 million) for Manchester United winger Nani
in January, the  Daily Express reported .  The Turkish club is targeting Nani to replace Wesley Sneijder, who’s been linked with a move to Chelsea, as the star
of its midfield, the newspaper added.  Paulinho’s Package  Tottenham Hotspur is set to offer Brazil midfielder
Paulinho a contract extension to fend off interest from Real
 Madrid , the  Daily Star reported .  Paulinho, 25, has become a regular starter since joining
Spurs on a four-year deal in July and will be offered an extra
12 months and a raise on his salary of 3.6 million pounds a
year, the newspaper added.  Backed for Blades  Former England coach Sven-Goran Eriksson is a contender for
the Sheffield United manager’s job after being recommended to
the Blades by the club’s advisers, the  Daily Mirror reported .  The 65-year-old Eriksson, who’s currently managing Chinese
club Guangzhou R&F, would take the position if the terms are
right, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  