-- Most Asian Stocks Drop as U.S. Debt Talks Deadline Loom
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2013-10-16T10:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/asian-stocks-at-five-month-high-as-investors-await-u-s-.html
Most Asian  stocks  declined as U.S.
lawmakers resumed talks to avoid a default ahead of tomorrow’s
deadline to raise the debt ceiling.  Techtronic Industries Co., a maker of power tools that gets
about 73 percent of sales from North America, fell 3 percent in
Hong Kong.  Japan  Tobacco Inc., Asia’s largest listed cigarette
maker, slid 2 percent as report on how much it would raise
prices after the nation’s sales-tax increased disappointed
investors. GungHo Online Entertainment Inc. jumped 16 percent in
 Tokyo  after the game developer and parent SoftBank Corp. agreed
to buy 51 percent of  Finland ’s Supercell Oy.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index fell less than 0.1 percent to
141.36 as of 7:35 p.m. in Tokyo, after swinging between gains
and losses of as much as 0.2 percent. Almost five shares
declined for every three that rose on the gauge, which traded
near a five-month high. Senate leaders have restarted
negotiations to reopen the government and prevent default,
according to a statement from Republican Senator Mitch
McConnell’s spokesman.  “The leaders in the Senate are optimistic and that’s
keeping the markets supported.” Chris Weston, chief market
strategist at brokerage IG Ltd. in  Melbourne , said by phone.
“It’s all very confusing and extremely frustrating. There’s not
a lot of clarity now, so people are probably going to stay on
the sidelines until we get something more meaty on the bone.  McConnell and Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid “are
optimistic that an agreement is within reach,” a spokesman for
Reid. They earlier suspended talks, while House lawmakers
postponed a potential vote on a plan to resolve the impasse
stripped of Republican conditions.  China Slowdown  China’s  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 1.8 percent, the
most among major Asia-Pacific gauges. JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut
its rating on the nation’s equities to underweight, citing a
cyclical slowdown and a potential disappointment from a
Communist Party meeting in November.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slipped 0.5 percent. Japan’s
 Topix (TPX)  fell 0.1 percent and  Taiwan ’s Taiex index lost 0.4
percent.  South Korea’s Kospi index dropped 0.3 percent. A report
showed the nation’s unemployment rate unexpectedly fell to 3
percent in September from 3.1 percent a month earlier.  Australia ’s S&P/ASX 200 Index rose 0.1 percent. New
Zealand’s NZX 50 Index added 0.2 percent, while Singapore’s
Straits Times Index climbed 0.3 percent. Indian markets were
closed for a holiday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index gained 1.3 percent last week
amid optimism U.S. lawmakers were moving closer to resolving the
debt impasse. The gauge traded at 13.6 times estimated earnings
today, compared with 15.4 for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
and 14.4 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  U.S. Futures  S&P 500 futures advanced 0.3 percent today. The U.S. equity
gauge slipped 0.7 percent yesterday as the absence of a deal to
raise the $16.7 trillion U.S. debt limit spurred a surge in
Treasury bill rates. With U.S. borrowing authority set to lapse
tomorrow, Fitch Ratings put the world’s biggest economy on watch
for a possible credit downgrade, citing lawmakers’ inability to
forge a deal.  House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican, was making a
last-minute attempt to influence the outcome of the fiscal
showdown with a proposal that would extend government funding
through Dec. 15, compared with the Jan. 15 threshold included in
the Senate’s plan.  Exporters declined. Techtronic slipped 3 percent to
HK$19.94 in Hong Kong.  Li & Fung Ltd. (494) , a supplier of toys and
clothes to retailers including Wal-Mart Stores Inc., fell 1.1
percent to HK$10.88. Panasonic Corp., Japan’s second-largest
television maker, dropped 1.5 percent to 947 yen.  Japan Tobacco  Japan Tobacco slid 2 percent to 3,450 yen. The cigarette
maker will likely raise prices by 3 percent from April due to
the sales-tax hike, the Yomiuri newspaper reported, without
citing anyone. Mizuho Securities Co. analyst Hiroshi Saji said
he was expecting a 5 percent rise and called the smaller
increase a “short-term negative.”  Prince Frog International Holdings Ltd. plunged 26 percent
to HK$4.66 in Hong Kong, the most on record, after short-seller
Glaucus Research Group questioned the company’s sales and
branded the baby-care products maker a “strong sell.” Trading
was suspended in the afternoon after the shares dropped.  Iluka Resources Ltd. declined 4.4 percent to A$10 in Sydney
after the world’s biggest zircon producer said demand in  China 
declined. Weak demand in the quarter is “unlikely to be offset
in full by stronger sales volumes in the fourth quarter,” Iluka
said today in a statement.  GungHo Online Entertainment jumped 16 percent to 81,900 yen
in Tokyo, the most on the MSCI Asia Pacific Index. SoftBank said
yesterday it will team up with unit GungHo to buy a 51 percent
stake in Finnish game maker Supercell for $1.53 billion.  SoftBank, PCCW  SoftBank, Japan’s third-largest wireless carrier, rose 2.2
percent to 7,400 yen after saying it is talks to buy a stake in
Brightstar Corp., a U.S.-based mobile-phone distributor.  PCCW Ltd., owner of Hong Kong’s biggest telecommunications
operator, climbed 4.6 percent to HK$3.64 after winning
regulatory approval to compete in the city’s free-to-air
television market after few permits were given for the first
time in almost 40 years. I-Cable Communications Ltd., which also
got a license, surged 155 percent to HK$1.20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in  Singapore  at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  