-- Asia’s Waning Competitiveness Seen in Trade Disconnect
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2013-10-16T17:46:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/asia-s-waning-competitiveness-seen-in-trade-disconnect-economy.html
(Corrects last paragraph of story originally published on
Oct. 16 to show poll was taken in February 2012. To receive this
column daily, click SALT ECOCOL.)  Asia ’s exporters are failing to
benefit from a recovery in advanced nations, putting the onus on
policy makers to shift reliance to domestic demand as a driver
of economic growth.  China ’s  exports  unexpectedly fell last month, while
overseas shipments from  Taiwan  and  South Korea  also declined.
Asia’s export-led growth engine is showing “signs of serious
defects,” according to Frederic Neumann, Hong Kong-based co-head of Asian economics at HSBC Holdings Plc, who says the
region’s trade data has disappointed over the past couple of
years and may be evidence of a loss in competitiveness.  The region’s export recovery is faltering even as  Europe 
emerges from its longest recession on record and  U.S.
manufacturing (NAPMPMI)  grows at the strongest pace in more than two
years. The  International Monetary Fund  this month lowered its
forecasts for growth in developing Asia for 2013 and 2014 while
leaving projections for advanced nations unchanged.  “Many Asian economies are relying on domestic demand as an
engine of growth, rather than external as they move away from an
export-led strategy,” said Jeff Ng, an economist at Standard
Chartered Plc in Singapore.  Smaller Boost  Economists at financial companies from Bank of America
Corp. to Morgan Stanley are predicting a healthier  U.S. economy 
will provide less of a boost abroad than it once did, partly
because of changes wrought by the financial crisis and
recession. Before a partial shutdown of the U.S. government
began at the start of October, the world’s largest economy had
been improving enough for the  Federal Reserve  to consider
tapering the amount of stimulus it provides monthly.  Malaysia’s domestic sector has been “solid and has been
the anchor” of growth, central bank Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz
said in an interview this month. The expansion in the Southeast
Asian nation would have been 1 percent to 2 percent this year
instead of being on track for 4.5 percent-to-5 percent growth if
policy makers had not rebalanced the economy, she said.  In the  Philippines , where President  Benigno Aquino  is
raising spending to a record this year, central bank Governor
Amando Tetangco said in an Oct. 2 interview that growth is set
to exceed 7 percent in 2013.  Sri Lanka  unexpectedly cut  interest
rates  yesterday to “stimulate the economy to reach a higher
growth trajectory” as it identified risks including the U.S.
shutdown and political impasse over raising the debt ceiling.  Thai Rate  The Bank of  Thailand  kept its  benchmark rate  unchanged
today. The economy entered recession in the second quarter amid
weakening exports, and Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said
Oct. 3 his focus is on proceeding with a 2 trillion-baht ($64
billion) transport-infrastructure program, rather than on
“external” dynamics such as international developments.  Elsewhere in the region, New Zealand inflation accelerated
faster than economists forecast last quarter, while  South
Korea (KOEXTOTY) ’s unemployment rate fell in September. U.K. jobless claims
fell the most in 16 years last month as a wider measure of
unemployment remained at 7.7 percent amid signs that the labor
market is improving.  Asia -- which had seven of the top 10 exporters of  textiles
and clothing  and office and telecommunications equipment in 2011
-- shipped $6.1 trillion of goods last year, a 2.3 percent
increase from the year before, according to  World Trade
Organization  data. The jump was 18 percent in 2011.  Exports Cool  Growth of shipments from Asia from mid-2003 to mid-2008
averaged 22.5 percent a year, according to Paul Gruenwald, Asia-Pacific chief economist at  Standard & Poor’s  in Singapore. Since
the global financial crisis, the average is 8.5 percent, he
said.  “Solid export growth had been a mainstay of the Asian
story before the global financial crisis,” Gruenwald wrote in a
Sept. 30 report. “That is no longer true.”  Asian companies are battling rising costs as governments
increase minimum wages to curb discontent over a widening wealth
gap. Average pay in Asia almost doubled between 2000 and 2011,
compared with a 5 percent increase in developed countries and
about 23 percent worldwide, according to the International
Labour Organization in Geneva. The gain was led by China, where
average remuneration more than tripled during the period.  In the Indonesian capital of Jakarta, Governor Joko Widodo
last year approved a 44 percent increase in minimum pay for
workers, to 2.2 million rupiah ($200) a month. Thailand raised
its national daily  minimum wage  to 300 baht in January. Malaysia
introduced a base salary last year, benefiting about 3.2 million
workers, while Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou has also
increased the lower limit on earnings in recent years.  Local Production  As the cost of goods from emerging Asian economies rises,
any demand increase in advanced nations may be met by local
production rather than imports, HSBC’s Neumann said.  “Many countries in emerging Asia may be losing
competitiveness,” Neumann wrote in an Oct. 14 report. “It’s
important not to push this argument too far, but the trend is
evident among a number of industries, with even some textile and
electronics production being relocated back into the  United
States  for example.”  Fifty-four percent of U.S. manufacturers with sales topping
$1 billion are planning to or considering bringing back factory-lines from China, up from 37 percent in February 2012, the
 Boston Consulting Group  said Sept. 24, citing a survey of 200
executives. It projects that with Chinese wages and benefits
rising 15 percent to 20 percent a year, the cost of operating in
China will be the same as staying in the U.S. by 2015.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  