-- S&P 500 Rises to Record as Treasuries Gain, Dollar Falls
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2013-10-17T20:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/asian-futures-rally-as-debt-deal-drives-u-s-stock-gains.html
The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose
to a record and Treasuries rallied as the U.S. raised the debt
ceiling and reopened the government.  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM)  and Goldman Sachs Group Inc. led the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  lower, while the dollar weakened.  The  S&P 500  increased 0.7 percent to 1,733.15 at 4 p.m. in
 New York  while the Dow declined 2.2 points. The dollar slid 1
percent to $1.3677 per euro, its biggest drop in a month, while
Treasury 10-year note yields fell seven basis points to 2.59
percent and gold surged 3.2 percent amid speculation that
economic damage from the budget debate will delay reductions in
Federal Reserve stimulus. Rates on Treasury bills due on Oct. 24
were at 0.02 percent after extending their two-day drop to
almost 45 basis points.  President  Barack Obama  signed into law a measure ending the
16-day government shutdown and extending the nation’s borrowing
authority until early next year. BlackRock Inc. and Pacific
Investment Management Co. say the Fed will postpone tapering its
bond purchases as a result of the debt-ceiling debate. IBM
tumbled 6.4 percent to a two-year low and Goldman Sachs
retreated 2.4 percent after each reported declines in sales,
with the two stocks taking more than 100 points off the Dow.  “Because of the disruption, because of the uncertainty,
what’s likely to happen is a slower pace of tapering,”  Russ Koesterich , the chief investment strategist at BlackRock in New
York, said in an interview on Bloomberg Television. BlackRock is
the world’s largest money manager with $4.1 trillion of assets.  Debt Agreement  Congress acted the day before U.S.  borrowing authority  was
scheduled to lapse as lawmakers engaged in their fourth round of
fiscal brinkmanship in less than three years. Lawmakers didn’t
resolve any of their long-term divides on fiscal policy and will
have to return to the same issues over the next four months.  Trading of S&P 500 stocks was almost 10 percent above the
30-day average today. The S&P 500 closed yesterday at the
highest level since Sept. 19, the day after the Fed surprised
markets by announcing it was not ready to begin reducing
stimulus, surging 1.4 percent as the Senate crafted the deal.  Gauges of telephone, utility and commodity companies rose
more than 1.2 percent to lead gains in nine of the 10 main
industry groups in the S&P 500.  American Express Co. (AXP)  rallied 5.1
percent, the most in nearly two years, after reporting third-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates. Newmont Mining
Corp., the second-largest gold miner, jumped 4.6 percent as the
price of the precious metal rallied.  IBM tumbled the most since April as the  world’s largest 
technology-consulting company reported its sixth straight
quarter of falling sales and its hardware business posted a
loss. EBay Inc., the operator of the largest online marketplace,
slid 4 percent after its sales and profit forecasts fell short
of analysts’ estimates.  Goldman Drops  Goldman Sachs, the world’s  most profitable  securities firm
before the financial crisis, lost the most in three weeks after
reporting earnings that were little changed as the bank cut
costs in response to a 20 percent drop in revenue.  IBM and Goldman are the second and third-biggest
weightings, respectively, in the price-weighted Dow. Goldman was
added to the gauge last month.  The  Chicago Board Options Exchange Volatility Index (VIX) , the
benchmark gauge of U.S. options prices known as the VIX, slid
8.4 percent to 13.48. The VIX lost 28 percent in two sessions,
the most over similar time spans since January, amid reduced
demand for contracts to protect against stock losses.  Some 24 companies in the S&P 500 are due to  release results 
today. Profits for companies in the increased probably increased
1.4 percent during the third quarter as sales rose 2 percent,
according to analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The rally in stocks this year has pushed valuations to a
three-year high. The S&P 500  trades  at 16.7 times reported
operating profit, an 18 percent increase from the beginning of
2013, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Economic Data  More Americans than forecast filed applications for
 unemployment benefits  last week as  California  continued to work
through a backlog. Jobless claims decreased by 15,000 to 358,000
in the week ended Oct. 12 from a revised 373,000 in the prior
period, the Labor Department said. The median forecast of 46
economists in a survey called for a decrease to 335,000.
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region expanded more than
projected in October, with the Philadelphia Fed’s general
economic index falling to 19.8 compared with the median forecast
of economists for a reading of 15.  The stalemate over U.S. fiscal policy “encouraged our
enemies” and slowed economic growth, President Obama said
today. Speaking at the White House after federal agencies opened
for the first time since Oct. 1, Obama said the U.S. suffers
because of repeated fiscal brinkmanship.  “It’s emboldened our competitors and it’s depressed our
friends who look to us for steady leadership,” he said. The
impasse caused “completely unnecessary damage on our economy.”  Dollar Weakens  The dollar fell versus all of its 16 major counterparts,
dropping more than 1 percent versus the Swedish krona, British
pound and Swiss franc and losing 0.9 percent to 97.90 yen. The
Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index dropped 0.9 percent to the lowest
level since Feb. 14.  The government shutdown and debt-ceiling debate prompted
 Fitch Ratings  on Oct. 15 to put the U.S. on watch for a possible
credit downgrade. S&P said yesterday the impact of the impasse
was worsening by the day and had shaved at least 0.6 percent off
of fourth-quarter growth, taking $24 billion out of the economy.
The ratings agency forecast 2 percent annualized growth in the
fourth quarter, down from the 3 percent seen last month.  Dagong Global Credit Rating Co., one of  China ’s four
biggest credit-rating companies, cut its local and foreign-currency assessments of the U.S. to A- from A. China has the
largest foreign holdings of Treasuries, and the latest monthly
U.S. government figures showed it increased its total in July.  Tapering Off  “Tapering’s pretty much off the table until at least early
next year,” said Victor Thianpiriya, an analyst at Australia &
New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “The market’s
going to tread cautiously because all the U.S. government’s done
is kick the can down the road.”  The pound strengthened the most in four weeks against the
dollar, advancing 1.3 percent to $1.6161, after a report showed
U.K. retail sales increased more than analysts forecast in
September.  About the same number of shares declined as gained in the
Stoxx Europe 600 Index, which rose for a sixth straight day and
reached the highest level since June 2008. Trading volumes were
10 percent higher than the 30-day average, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sulzer, KPN  Sulzer AG (SUN) , a Swiss pump maker, and Outotec Oyj, a Finnish
supplier of smelters to mining companies, sank 4.4 percent and
15 percent respectively after cutting their  forecasts . Royal KPN
NV tumbled 7.9 percent as America Movil SAB withdrew its $9.7
billion takeover offer for the Dutch phone carrier.  The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index advanced for a third day,
rising 0.3 percent. Benchmark gauges in Dubai,  South Korea  and
 Malaysia  helped lead gains in developing nations. Russia’s Micex
Index dropped 1.3 percent as oil slid, while  India ’s Sensex
retreated 0.6 percent and the Shanghai Composite Index slipped
0.2 percent. The Hungarian forint, Russian ruble and Czech
koruna led currencies higher.  West Texas Intermediate crude oil declined 1.6 percent to
$100.67 a barrel, a three-month low, after the  American
Petroleum Institute  said U.S. inventories climbed by 5.9 million
barrels last week. Nickel and copper led industrial metals
lower, retreating at least 0.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  