-- ASML Third-Quarter Profit Declines 30% on Higher Expenses
-- B y   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2013-10-16T07:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/asml-third-quarter-profit-declines-30-on-higher-expenses.html
ASML Holding NV (ASML) ,  Europe ’s largest
semiconductor-equipment supplier, reported a 30 percent decline
in third-quarter profit as an expansion into more advanced
technologies boosted costs.  Net income fell to 193.1 million euros ($261 million) from
274.7 million euros a year earlier, Veldhoven, Netherlands-based
ASML said today. Analysts projected 192 million euros, the
average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 7.3
percent to 1.32 billion euros, including the takeover of light-source manufacturer Cymer Inc. completed in May.  The Cymer purchase is part of ASML’s push into newer
technologies as sales of personal computers fall and chip
production is shifting toward mobile phones and tablets. The
shift weighed on profitability, alarming investors after ASML
 shares  more than tripled in the past three years.  “We see no outperform in today’s earnings so the scope for
investors to find new positive will be limited,” said  Lee Simpson , an analyst at Jefferies LLC in  London  who recommends
buying the stock.  The shares fell 1 percent to 71.40 euros at 9:49 a.m. in
Amsterdam, valuing the company at 31.9 billion euros. It had
climbed 50 percent this year through yesterday, making it the
third-best performing stock in the  AEX index  this year.  Third-quarter gross margin shrank to 40.3 percent from 43.2
percent a year earlier. In the fourth quarter, it’ll rebound to
43 percent to 44 percent, ASML predicted. The company confirmed
its full-year sales forecast of as much as 5.2 billion euros.  Tablets, Smartphones  ASML expanded into the so-called extreme ultraviolet
lithography technology, or EUV, through the Cymer acquisition.
EUV technology is important for the chipmaking industry to
enable the production of smaller chips while increasing their
capacity and speed for devices such as handsets and tablets.  Last week,  Micron Technology Inc. (MU) , one of ASML’s main
memory customers, reported fourth-quarter sales that exceeded
analysts’ estimates as higher average prices helped make up for
lackluster personal-computer demand.  “We will see the translation of the increased memory
orders into our shipments starting in the fourth quarter but
also in the first two quarters of 2014,” ASML Chief Executive
Officer Peter Wennink said in an online video statement. “We
expect that the first two quarters of 2014 will be comparable to
our sales in the second half of 2013.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  