-- Mattel Reviews China Labor Practices After Alleged Abuse
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2013-10-16T20:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/mattel-reviews-china-labor-practices-after-alleged-abuse.html
Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the world’s largest
toymaker, is reviewing working conditions at a handful of
Chinese suppliers after a labor advocate reported abuses.  China Labor Watch, based in New York, released a 94-page
 report  yesterday that listed infractions at six Chinese
factories that make toys for Mattel, including underpaying
workers and fire hazards such as blocked escape routes and
locked emergency exits.  “As we do with any potential compliance issue, we are now
fully reviewing the validity of the issues raised in the
report,” Alan Hilowitz, a spokesman for El Segundo, California-based Mattel said in an e-mailed statement. “Should our review
process identify areas in need of improvement, we will act
immediately” to address them.  Labor practices in  Asia  have come under increasing scrutiny
following suicides at electronics suppliers in China and a
building collapse in  Bangladesh  that killed more than 1,100
people. China Labor Watch has previously spoken out on the labor
practices of companies such as Samsung Electronics Co. and Apple
Inc. supplier Foxconn Technology Group.  This is not the first time China Labor Watch has criticized
Mattel, the maker of Barbie dolls and Hot Wheels toy cars. The
group published a report last November claiming there were labor
abuses at four factories that make products for the toymaker,
including one owned by Mattel. At the time, Mattel said it was
investigating the allegations. According to yesterday’s report,
Mattel later told  China  Labor Watch in a letter that “with few
exceptions the allegations are unfounded.”  Hilowitz, the Mattel spokesman, couldn’t immediately
respond to how Mattel handled last year’s report.  Undercover Investigators  This current probe spanned six months and involved
undercover investigators and interviews with more than 300
workers to reach its findings, the group said.  The report named 18 sets of legal and ethical violations,
including shifts as long as 13 hours and overcrowded employee
dorms that housed as many as 12 people in a single room. China
Labor Watch reports that over the course of one year, the six
factories underpaid workers by as much as $11 million.  The toymaker earlier today reported net income in the three
months ended Sept. 30 rose 16 percent to $422.8 million, or
$1.21 a share, beating analysts’ expectations.  Mattel rose 1 percent to $41.97 in  New York  after earlier
touching $43.74 for the largest intraday gain since April 17.  The Wall Street Journal reported on Mattel’s review of the
allegations earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  