-- AXA Sells $474 Million of Catastrophe Bonds Against Storms
-- B y   A l a s t a i r   M a r s h
-- 2013-10-16T10:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/axa-sells-474-million-of-catastrophe-bonds-against-storm-damage.html
AXA SA (CS)  said it sold catastrophe
bonds designed to protect insurers from payouts on storm damage,
in the biggest transaction of the notes in euros.  Europe’s second-largest insurer by market value issued 350
million euros ($474 million) of notes to institutional investors
in two offerings through Calypso Capital II Ltd., it said in a
statement. The bonds protect against extreme windstorm risk in
11 European countries from the U.K to  Belgium .  “This issuance confirms AXA’s strategy to diversify the
group’s cover against natural catastrophes, by both traditional
reinsurance and alternative risk transfer such as catastrophe
bonds,” Philippe Derieux, deputy chief executive of AXA Global
Property and Casualty, said in a statement.  Paris-based AXA’s deal takes sales of catastrophe bonds in
the common currency to 630 million euros this year, up from 230
million euros in 2012, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We are seeing more and more insurers looking at
insurance-linked investments, such as cat bonds, to replace part
of their traditional reinsurance programs,” said Christian Bruns, who co-manages about $2.5 billion in insurance-linked
strategies at Zurich-based LGT Capital Management Ltd.  The bonds are less risky than traditional re-insurance
products because they are backed by collateral such as
government securities, Bruns said.  AXA paid 290 basis points more than the three-month euro
interbank offered rate on notes due in January 2018, according
to the company’s statement. That compares with a spread of 410
basis points AXA paid to sell similar three-year securities in
2011, Bloomberg data show.  French insurer Groupama SA previously held the record for
the largest euro-denominated catastrophe bonds, selling 280
million euros of the securities through Green Fields II Capital
Ltd. in July, Bloomberg data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alastair Marsh in London at 
 amarsh25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  