-- BMW to Mazda Imports Slowed as Strike Shuts Baltimore Port
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-10-17T14:17:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/baltimore-port-shut-down-as-longshoremen-strike-on-contract-feud.html
Baltimore’s port remained closed for
a second day after 2,000 union longshoremen walked off the job
in a contract dispute, snarling imported cargo that included
autos from  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW)   The closure puts pressure on the supply chain as Baltimore
lures auto contracts away from east coast ports in New York and
 New Jersey . The disruption will hamper sales, said Michelle Krebs, a senior analyst at auto researcher Edmunds.com.  “Auto industry demand has been very strong,” Krebs said
today in a phone interview. “We’re in a situation right now
where there are a lot of vehicles that are in short supply.”  Mazda would be particularly hurt because it has experienced
a “sales renaissance” and was already struggling to fill
orders before the strike began, said Krebs. The automaker signed
a five-year contract in August that will bring as many as 65,000
vehicles a year to the port from  Japan .  “We’re aware of it, and we’re looking into it,” Nick
Beard, a Mazda spokesman, said in an interview yesterday.  The Port of Baltimore is the 12th largest in the U.S. by
container volume, and one of the top ten employment centers in
the state, according to the Maryland Port Administration’s most
recent annual  report .  The dispute centers on a contract signed by the
 International Longshoremen’s Association , covering ports from
 Maine  to  Texas , which needs to be ratified by all local labor
unions. Local 333, one of four Baltimore chapters, rejected the
contract and announced a work stoppage on Oct. 15.  Economic Impact  “If an agreement can be reached within the next day or
two, we don’t think there will be a huge economic impact,”
Richard Scher, a spokesman for the Maryland Port Administration,
said in an interview. “If it continues a week or two weeks,
then you’re looking at some significant economic impacts.”  Local 333 is protesting the Steamship Trade Association of
Baltimore Inc.’s refusal to negotiate “in good faith” over a
new contract covering workers terms and conditions, the union
said in a statement yesterday.  “Local 333 is eager to enter into a new contract with the
STA,” its president, Riker McKenzie, said in the statement.
“But the dedicated men and women working at the Port of
Baltimore deserve a fair and just contract. We cannot accept
STA’s refusal to negotiate over matters that the law requires
them to negotiate.”  A representative for the Steamship Trade Association
declined to comment.  Fiat, BMW  Chrysler Group LLC, which is majority owned by  Fiat SpA (F) , is
“closely monitoring the situation and hopes for a speedy
resolution,”  Katie Hepler , a spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  The automaker, based in  Auburn Hills ,  Michigan , shipped
about 124,000 vehicles using the port in 2012, Hepler said. This
year it started receiving shipments of the Fiat 500L, a roomier
version of its compact 500, through Baltimore, Hepler said.  “Like everyone else who uses the Port of Baltimore we’re
hoping the strike is short and that business as usual returns as
soon as possible,” Ken Sparks, a spokesman for BMW North
America, said in an e-mail. “Baltimore is one of our three
ports on the East Coast and of course we always have contingency
plans should any location not be available for a period of
time.”  Daimler AG’s Mercedes-Benz said about one third of its
sales were processed through Baltimore, Donna Boland, a
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  “It’s our hope that the situation will be resolved in the
next few days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  