-- Banks Near End of Homeowner Relief Payments, Monitor Says
-- B y   C l e a   B e n s o n
-- 2013-10-16T15:30:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/banks-near-end-of-homeowner-relief-payments-u-s-monitor-says.html
The largest U.S. mortgage servicers,
including  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , are almost
finished paying $25 billion in relief to borrowers under a
national legal settlement over botched foreclosures, the court-appointed monitor said.  The banks, also including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  and  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) , were required to provide $18.9 billion of the aid
to consumers in the form of refinancing, loan forgiveness or
short sales, in which lenders agree to allow homes to be sold
for less than the mortgages against them.  Through the end of 2012, the banks  provided  $15.3 billion
of that amount, Smith said in report issued today.  “In the first part of the settlement, the banks made
substantial progress,” Smith said in a telephone interview
after the report’s release. “They have told me, and I think
there is good reason to believe, that they have in fact
completed their consumer relief activities. We are now working
on scoring those.”  A fifth lender participating in the settlement,  Ally
Financial Inc. (ALLY) , has completed its obligations under the February
2012 agreement with the U.S. Justice Department and 49 state
attorneys general.  Modifications Continue  “Even though we no longer submit activity for crediting
toward the settlement, we do continue providing relief --
including principal forgiveness modifications -- to our eligible
customers,”  Dan Frahm , a Bank of America spokesman, wrote in an
e-mailed statement.  Smith is also reviewing whether the lenders are complying
with standards for servicing mortgages mandated under the
settlement. He said in June that the banks hadn’t done enough to
upgrade their treatment of borrowers in danger of foreclosure.
Smith said he will submit an update later this year.  At least three state attorneys general have criticized bank
practices in the wake of the settlement. New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman sued Wells Fargo on Oct. 2, alleging
that the bank violated settlement terms related to processing
applications for loan modifications.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clea Benson in Washington at 
 cbenson20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  