-- Bank of Montreal Promotes Techar Chief Operating Officer
-- B y   D o u g   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2013-10-16T21:23:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/bank-of-montreal-promotes-techar-to-chief-operating-officer.html
Bank of Montreal (BMO) ,  Canada ’s fourth-largest lender by assets, promoted Frank Techar to the new role
of chief operating officer as part of a plan to consolidate
oversight of its retail businesses.  Techar, 57, currently chief executive officer of personal
and commercial banking in Canada, will take on the role on Nov.
1, the Toronto-based bank said today in a statement. He’ll be
responsible for the lender’s personal and commercial business,
wealth, and retail-distribution channels.  “I am looking forward to working closely with Frank in a
shared multiyear commitment to redefine our business, work more
efficiently for customers and capitalize on our scale in Canada
and the  United States ,” CEO William Downe, 61, said in the
statement.  Techar will oversee Mark Furlong, who heads the Chicago-based BMO Harris Bank U.S. lending unit, and Gilles Ouellette,
who heads  wealth management . The change won’t affect the
lender’s BMO Capital Markets investment-banking business.  Bank of Montreal  rose  0.6 percent to close at C$70.66 in
Toronto trading.  Techar was appointed to his current position in July 2006.
He led the bank’s U.S. personal and commercial business from
2002 to 2006. Techar began his Bank of Montreal career in 1984
in corporate banking, holding various positions in the U.S. and
U.K.  Paul Deegan, a bank spokesman, said Techar’s appointment is
not part of a  succession plan  for Downe, who became CEO in March
2007.  “Bill has made a multiyear commitment to the board,”
Deegan said in a telephone interview. “He is not going
anywhere.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Doug Alexander in Toronto at 
 dalexander3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  