-- Barclays Joins Lloyds as Most-Complained About Banks, FCA Says
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-10-16T10:23:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/barclays-joins-lloyds-as-most-complained-about-banks-fca-says.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  Lloyds Banking
Group Plc (LLOY)  received the most customer complaints of financial
services firms in the U.K. during the first half of the year,
the markets regulator said.  Barclays reported 370,733 complaints, the Financial Conduct
Authority, based in London,  said  today. Lloyds received the
second-highest number of complaints with 253,735. Bank of
Scotland Plc, a unit of Lloyds, also faced 222,249 complaints.  “We expect firms to put their customers at the heart of
their business -- an important part of this is the way they
handle customer complaints,” said Martin Wheatley, the FCA’s
chief executive officer. “Publishing complaints data is a
powerful tool that helps encourage competition between firms to
improve their service to customers.”  Consumer complaints reported to the FCA by firms fell by
500,000 in the first half of this year from the previous six
months to 2.9 million. Just over half of the issues raised were
upheld and 2.55 billion pounds ($4 billion) in compensation was
paid to consumers, the regulator said.  Ashok Vaswani, the CEO of Barclays’s retail and business
banking, said the number of complaints the firm receives is
“reducing sustainably.” The bank will publish complaints data
every three months “with additional information on how we are
tackling their root causes,” Vaswani said in an e-mailed
statement.  Complaints over the sale of payment-protection insurance,
or PPI, accounted for 81 percent of claims, Lloyds said in a
statement.  “As a group, we now receive fewer banking complaints per
thousand accounts than any other major bank,” said Martin Dodd,
customer service director at Lloyds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suzi Ring in  London  at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lindsay Fortado at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  