-- Batista Said Seeking $550 Million for Stake in Utility
-- B y   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2013-10-16T12:26:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/batista-said-seeking-550-million-for-stake-in-utility.html
Eike Batista  is seeking 1.2 billion
reais ($550 million) for his stake in Brazilian power producer
 Eneva SA (MPXE3)  as the former billionaire tries to raise cash to pay
creditors, said two people with direct knowledge of the talks.  Marubeni Corp. (8002) , IFM Australian Infrastructure Fund and
Canada Pension Plan Investment Board are among prospective
buyers of the 24 percent holding in the utility formerly known
as MPX Energia, the people said, asking not to be named because
talks are private. Patria Investimentos, a Brazilian firm owned
40 percent by Blackstone Group LP, withdrew from the
negotiations because of the price being asked, the people said.  Batista is selling assets ranging from utilities to
oilfields and ports after his net worth slumped by more than $30
billion since early 2012.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA ,
once the centerpiece of Batista’s business empire, yesterday
fired its chief executive officer as it holds talks with
bondholders to keep the oil explorer afloat.  Batista founded Eneva and now jointly controls it with
Dusseldorf-based EON SE, which increased its stake through a
private placement to 38 percent on July 4. That made EON the
largest stakeholder as Batista stepped down as chairman.  Eneva’s stock, down 57 percent this year, was used as
collateral for loans from creditors including Banco Itau BBA SA,
the people said. The asking price of 1.2 billion reais
represents a 50 percent premium over market value because the
buyer would become the second biggest holder and a joint
controller, the people said.  Canada Pension  Linda Sims, a spokeswoman from Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board, declined to comment “on any rumor or
speculation in the marketplace regarding possible investment
activities on our part.”  Eneva, Batista’s holding company EBX Group Co., Patria and
Itau all declined to comment through officials who asked not to
be identified citing company policy. Marubeni and IFM didn’t
immediately reply to e-mails seeking comment.  Batista, who took six companies public since 2006, has seen
most of his fortune disappear since early 2012 in a selloff
spurred by missed targets and rising debt.  Grupo BTG Pactual (BBTG11) , the investment bank run by billionaire
 Andre Esteves , acquired 28.2 million Eneva shares for $78.7
million through a private placement on July 4, MPX said Sept. 6.  BTG is advising Batista in the share sale, three people
familiar with the arrangement said. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. is
advising EON in helping Batista to sell his Eneva stake, two of
the people said.  BTG declined to comment through an official who isn’t an
authorized spokesman.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-based Goldman Sachs, declined to comment. Josef Nelles, an EON
spokesman, declined to comment in an e-mailed response.  OGX Chief  OGX, the worst-performing oil stock this year, nominated
Paulo Narcelio Simoes Amaral, hired last month as chief
financial officer, to replace Luiz Carneiro as CEO, it said in a
statement late yesterday.  OGX (OGXP3)  is considering filing for
 bankruptcy protection  late this month or early next, according
to two people with direct knowledge of the matter.  The oil producer missed a $45 million Oct. 1 bond payment
and has been negotiating with bondholders. A default of the $3.6
billion international bonds due in 2018 and 2022 would be  Latin
America ’s biggest corporate default, according to data compiled
by Moody’s Investors Service.  The company hired Sao Paulo-based Angra Partners as a
“restructuring” consultant, it said. Angra was already an
adviser to EBX Group. OGX’s other advisers include Blackstone
Group LP and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)  The company will hire a “specialized
consultancy” to audit its results from 2008 to 2013, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  