-- Batista Fires OGX Oil Company CEO Carneiro Amid Bond Talks
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2013-10-16T04:04:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/batista-fires-ogx-oil-company-ceo-carneiro-amid-bond-talks.html
OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA ,
the centerpiece of former billionaire  Eike Batista ’s commodities
group, fired its chief executive officer amid talks with
bondholders to keep the explorer afloat.  OGX, the worst-performing oil stock this year, nominated
Paulo Narcelio Simoes Amaral to replace Luiz Carneiro as CEO, it
said in a statement late yesterday. Amaral, a former Brasil
Telecom chief financial officer, was hired as OGX’s CFO last
month and will keep the position. OGX called a shareholders
meeting for Nov. 1 to approve the appointment of Amaral and a
new legal director, it said.  The management changes come as Batista, who has taken six
companies public since 2006, is selling assets ranging from
oilfields to ports after his net worth slumped by more than
$30 billion since early 2012 in a selloff spurred by missed
targets and rising debt. OGX needs to cover costs until it
starts production at its next offshore oil project before the
end of the year.  OGX missed a $45 million bond payment Oct. 1. and has been
negotiating with holders. A default of the $3.6 billion
international bonds due in 2018 and 2022 would be the region’s
biggest corporate default, according to data compiled by Moody’s
Investors Service.  Restructuring Consultants  The company hired Sao Paulo-based Angra Partners as a
“restructuring” consultant, it said. Angra was already an
adviser to EBX Group, Batista’s holding company. OGX’s other
advisers include Blackstone Group LP and  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ)   The company will hire a “specialized consultancy” to
audit its results from 2008 to 2013, it said.  OGX rose the most on record yesterday amid speculation
Batista will cede control of the company as part of a deal with
bondholders. OGX gained 48 percent to 34 centavos in Sao Paulo,
cutting its slump this year to 92 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  