-- Fed’s Bernanke Can’t Be Forced to Testify in AIG Lawsuit
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/bernanke-can-t-be-deposed-in-aig-bailout-suit-court-rules.html
Federal Reserve  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  can’t be forced to testify in a lawsuit against the
U.S. brought by Maurice “Hank” Greenberg over the government’s
bailout of  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , a federal appeals
court ruled.  Greenberg, the former AIG chairman and chief executive
officer who sued through his firm, Starr International Co.,
“has not established the extraordinary circumstances necessary
to justify the deposition of Chairman Bernanke at all while he
holds the position of Federal Reserve Board chairman, much less
to inquire into the Federal Reserve’s deliberative processes or
the chairman’s mental processes,” Circuit Judge Timothy Dyk
said in yesterday’s order.  Starr’s efforts to question Bernanke “have all the
appearances, and vices, of a fishing expedition rather than an
effort to establish legally material facts,” Dyk wrote for a
three-judge panel in  Washington   Starr’s lawyer,  David Boies  of Boies, Schiller & Flexner
LLP, said he will seek to depose Bernanke after he leaves office
early next year.  “Based on Chairman Bernanke’s documents and public
statements, and on the sworn testimony of other government
officials who have already been deposed, we are confident that
we can make the showing of the importance of this testimony that
the court requires,” Boies said in an e-mailed statement.  Constitutional Rights  Closely-held Starr International seeks $25 billion from the
U.S. for allegedly violating the constitutional rights of the
shareholders of New York-based AIG.  Starr claims that the assumption of 80 percent of the AIG’s
stock by the Federal Reserve Bank of  New York  in September 2008
was a taking of property that violated shareholders’ rights to
due process and equal protection of the law.  Judge Thomas Wheeler, of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims,
ruled on July 29 that Bernanke would have to testify in the case
-- something Starr has contended is necessary because of his
role in the transaction.  Wheeler said obtaining testimony from high-level U.S.
officials has been a “relatively routine practice” in the
federal claims court when the individual has personal knowledge
of relevant information.  In the ruling, Dyk suggested that deposing Bernanke might
be difficult even after he steps down as Fed chairman because
the lofty legal standard that must be met in order to question a
high government official about his decision-making “hardly
becomes inapplicable upon an official’s departure from his
office.”  The government’s request to block Bernanke’s testimony is
In Re U.S., 13-163,  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit (Washington). The Starr case is Starr International Co.
v. U.S., 11-cv-00779, U.S. Court of Federal Claims (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  