-- Billionaire Son on Buying Spree as SoftBank Chases Growth
-- B y   T a k a s h i   A m a n o ,   M a r i k o   Y a s u   a n d   S c o t t   M o r i t z
-- 2013-10-16T15:48:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/billionaire-son-on-buying-spree-as-softbank-chases-growth-abroad.html
A day after  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  said it
was buying a majority stake in gamemaker Supercell Oy,
billionaire Chairman Masayoshi Son is at it again.  Japan ’s third-largest wireless carrier is in talks to buy a
stake in Brightstar Corp., a U.S.-based mobile-phone
distributor, the company said in a filing to the  Tokyo  Stock
Exchange. The Nikkei newspaper earlier reported the deal could
be worth more than 100 billion yen ($1 billion).  SoftBank has been involved in at least  12 deals  in the past
year, topped by its $21.6 billion acquisition of Sprint Corp.,
as it expands in  North America  and  Europe  to counter a declining
population at home. SoftBank yesterday agreed to buy a 51
percent stake in Finland-based Supercell, adding to a stable of
investments in more than 1,000 Internet companies, including
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689)   “Mr. Son has said entering the U.S. carrier market was his
dream, but his dream seems endless,” said  Yuuki Sakurai , chief
executive officer of Fukoku Capital Management Inc. “Where does
he plan to stop?”  Brightstar distributes mobile phones, provides handset
insurance and financial services with operations in about 50
countries, according to its  website . No decision has been made
on the acquisition, according to the SoftBank filing. Brightstar
Chairman Marcelo Claure said in an e-mail that the company
doesn’t comment on rumors.  Value Chain  If SoftBank and Sprint controlled Brightstar, it might
create a conflict with the other U.S. carriers, said Jan Dawson,
chief telecommunications analyst in the New York office of
London-based Ovum.  “The challenge for international M&A has always been how
to drive synergies between the two businesses, and scale in
handsets is one way to do that,” Dawson said. “Gaining control
of Brightstar would boost that even more, so it makes sense in
principle. But if other carriers abandon Brightstar over time
the value would quickly dwindle.”  Brightstar won’t be negatively affected if SoftBank
acquires a stake because the Japanese carrier would generate
business from its customers in Asia and its controlling stake in
U.S. operator Sprint, said Takashi Aoki, a Tokyo-based  fund
manager  at Mizuho Asset Management Co.  “It’s a strategy to gain profit from the value chain,”
said Aoki. “SoftBank is attempting to enlarge its profit
through procurement and logistics.”  ‘Improve Margins’  SoftBank may see this as a good way to invest in the
expansion of the U.S. wireless industry, said Avi Greengart, an
analyst at Current Analysis who is based in Teaneck,  New Jersey .  “They might see it as a way to improve margins by owning
the middle man,” Greengart said.  SoftBank yesterday agreed to pay $1.53 billion for the
majority stake in Supercell, the developer of games including
“Clash of Clans” and “Hay Day,” in a bid by the carrier to
capitalize on booming demand for titles played on mobile phones.  “Expanding its content business fits SoftBank’s growth
strategy and the company will likely continue expanding
operations outside the telecom arena,” Satoru Kikuchi, an
analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo, said in report
to clients.  SoftBank invested $20 million in Alibaba.com more than a
decade ago. Its investment in Alibaba Group could be worth more
than 1,000 times that if the Chinese e-commerce operator
proceeds with an initial public offering. Analysts estimate
Alibaba may be worth as much as $120 billion.  The Japanese carrier invested $150 million in 2010 to
acquire a stake in game developer  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   Earnings Outlook  Son is Japan’s second-richest man, with an estimated net
worth of $13.5 billion according to the Bloomberg Billionaires
Index. He is forecasting record domestic earnings this year for
SoftBank as new subscribers are added more quickly and the
Sprint deal saves $2 billion annually by pooling purchases of
handsets and network equipment.  “Waking up in the morning is fun as long as there’s a
dream,” according to a  posting  on Son’s Twitter account late
yesterday.  SoftBank  rose  2.2 percent to 7,400 yen at the close in
Tokyo. The shares have more than doubled this year while Japan’s
benchmark Topix index has added 39 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Amano in Tokyo at 
 tamano6@bloomberg.net ;
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  