-- Billionaire Emerges on $2 Billion Advance Auto Parts Deal
-- B y   G i l l i a n   W e e   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-16T20:13:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/billionaire-emerges-on-2-billion-advance-auto-parts-deal.html
O. Temple Sloan Jr., the founder and
chairman of General Parts International Inc., emerged as a
billionaire today after announcing his family will sell its
auto-parts company to  Advance Auto Parts Inc. (AAP)  for $2.04 billion.  General Parts is the Raleigh, North Carolina-based parent
of the Carquest chain that sells and distributes replacement
parts, tools, supplies and equipment for cars and trucks,
according to a statement today from Advance Auto Parts. Sloan
founded the company in 1962. His son, O. Temple Sloan III,
controls all of Carquest, according to Orbis, a database of
company information published by Bureau van Dijk.  “We are excited to bring together two highly complementary
automotive aftermarket companies,” Sloan III said in a
statement. “Our combined business will continue to deliver
value for customers and shareholders.”  The billionaire’s son will remain president of General
Parts International, reporting to Darren Jackson, chief
executive officer of Roanoke, Virginia-based Advance Auto Parts,
according to the statement. The transaction will include General
Parts’ Worldpac import and distribution network, as well as
Carquest, which has 1,246 company-operated stores and 1,418
independently owned outlets.  Sloan Jr., 74, wasn’t available for comment, according to
Dorothy Brown Smith, a spokeswoman for General Parts
International. General Parts is an employee-owned company,
Shelly Whitaker, a spokeswoman for Advance Auto Parts, said in
an e-mail. She declined to comment on Sloan Jr.’s net worth.  Annual Savings  The General Parts deal makes Advance Auto Parts the biggest
retailer of car components in  North America . The all-cash
acquisition will result in annual savings and revenue
improvements of $160 million within three years after
completion, Auto Parts said in the statement. The companies plan
to close the deal by early 2014, it said.  Advance Auto Parts plans to finance the acquisition through
a combination of senior notes, bank debt and existing cash on
hand, according to the statement.  Sloan Jr. was previously among 10  Bank of America Corp. 
directors who left the board in 2009 amid criticism over the $29
billion acquisition of Merrill Lynch & Co. Federal officials
pressed the bank for an overhaul following investor criticism of
Lewis’s decision to delay disclosing Merrill’s mounting fourth-quarter losses and bonus payments until after the transaction
was approved by shareholders.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gillian Wee in  New York  at 
 gwee3@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew G. Miller at 
 mmiller144@bloomberg.net  