-- Billionaire Slim’s Europe Plans on Hold as KPN Talks End
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   L a y a ,   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n   a n d   M a r t i j n   v a n   d e r   S t a r r e
-- 2013-10-17T20:15:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/billionaire-slim-s-europe-plans-on-hold-as-kpn-talks-break-down.html
Billionaire  Carlos Slim  is going
back to the drawing board with his plan to buy up cheap European
telecommunications assets, plotting his next move after  Royal
KPN NV (KPN)  executives fended off a $9.7 billion takeover.  After failing to persuade KPN’s management to accept a
price of 2.40 euros ($3.25) a share, Slim’s  America Movil SAB (AMXL) 
backed out yesterday of a planned tender offer to gain control
of the Dutch phone carrier. The Mexico City-based wireless
company retains a financial stake of about 30 percent in KPN.  KPN slumped as much as 10 percent to 2.18 euros in
Amsterdam today. Slim now must decide whether to keep those
shares, which have fallen about 70 percent since he acquired
them for 8 euros apiece last year. Even if he retains them,
Dutch law prevents him from making a new takeover bid for six
months. A move elsewhere in Europe, such as an increase in his
stake in  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) , would also help him achieve his
goal of expanding America Movil beyond Latin America.  “We probably expect them to increase their stake in
another European operator, and the natural option would be
Telekom  Austria ,” said Carlos de Legarreta, an analyst at
Corporativo GBM SAB in Mexico City. “Europe is an attractive
market, even if it’s being pressured by the slowing macro-economy. They are mature markets with a good return.”  America Movil shares dropped 1.2 percent to 13.85 pesos at
the close in Mexico City. KPN traded 7.9 percent lower at 2.24
euros in Amsterdam, and Telekom Austria was unchanged at 6.36
euros in Vienna.  Ziggo Takeover?  Europe’s economic struggles have lured investors such as
Slim and billionaire  Li Ka-shing  to hunt for bargains in the
phone industry, where growing competition and tight regulation
have squeezed profit margins. AT&T Inc., which owns 9 percent of
America Movil, has also eyed investments in Europe, saying the
continent is on the cusp of a boom in demand for high-speed
wireless Internet service.  KPN rival  Ziggo NV (ZIGGO)  has also deflected a foreign takeover
attempt. The cable-television company, based in Ultrecht,
 Netherlands , said yesterday that shareholder  Liberty Global Plc (LBTYA) 
made an “inadequate” offer for the rest of its shares, and
it’s uncertain whether it will receive an improved bid.  America Movil hasn’t made a decision on what to do with its
KPN stake and will study Dutch regulations to determine if its
options are limited because of its withdrawn tender offer, said
 Arturo Elias , Slim’s spokesman. The company didn’t drop its KPN
bid to pursue another offer, and the decision isn’t a
negotiating ploy with KPN, he said.  “Our position is firm and serious,” he said in a phone
interview.  ‘Numerous Discussions’  In a statement, KPN said America Movil’s offer undervalued
the company and didn’t do enough to protect minority
shareholders.  “The KPN boards weren’t able during their numerous
discussions to obtain an acceptable proposal on the content,
firmness, duration and enforceability of America Movil´s
commitments to KPN’s stakeholders,” the company said.  Speaking on a conference call today, Chief Executive
Officer Eelco Blok would’t comment on the price KPN was seeking
during negotiations.  “There is of course a possibility that we’ll get back at
the table again,” he said. “It’s difficult to assess at the
moment how the relationship with America Movil will develop.”  Slim directed America Movil’s highest-ranking executives to
the talks, including CEO Daniel Hajj, Chief Financial Officer
Carlos Garcia-Moreno and Elias, who is director of strategic
alliances for the company’s fixed-line unit. Slim, 73, didn’t
personally take part in the negotiations, said Elias, who like
Hajj is a son-in-law of the billionaire.  Telefonica Deal  The companies failed to reach an agreement even after
America Movil helped KPN get a better price from  Telefonica SA (TEF) 
for its German unit, E-Plus. After discussions with Slim’s
company, Madrid-based Telefonica agreed in August to raise its
bid for E-Plus to 8.55 billion euros from 8.1 billion euros. The
transaction is awaiting regulatory approval. Blok said today he
expects approval by mid-2014.  A Telefonica press official declined to comment.  KPN had argued that a tax offset from the sale of E-Plus
makes the company more valuable, people with knowledge of the
discussions said earlier, asking not to be identified because
the talks were private.  KPN was seeking as much as 3 euros a share from America
Movil, said  Robin Bienenstock , an analyst at Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. in  London .  Little Understanding?  “They came in to make an offer for a company without fully
understanding the rules of the market,” she said.  Peter Schiefer, a spokesman for Vienna-based Telekom
Austria, declined to comment.  KPN’s shareholders should have been the ones to determine
whether the offer was appropriate, Elias said. He said America
Movil couldn’t take its offer directly to them because KPN’s
independent foundation, which was set up to defend the company’s
stakeholders, used a protection mechanism to gain an automatic
50 percent stake in KPN, letting it fend off any bid for
control.  “The actions taken by the foundation are detrimental not
only to all KPN shareholders –- including those who wished to
participate in the intended offer –- but also detrimental to
clients, employees and other stakeholders of KPN who envisioned
being part of a solid company with long-term vision,” America
Movil said.  The  foundation  only tried to facilitate the negotiations
and didn’t block the deal, said Walter Samuels, a spokesman for
the independent group.  “I’m not sure if this is definite, or if it could be used
to put some pressure on negotiations,” said Alejandro Gallostra, an analyst at  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA)  in
Mexico City. “Europe is in the process of consolidating, which
we will see in the next few years, so having such an important
stake in Europe is strategic.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in New York at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Martijn van der Starre in Amsterdam at 
 vanderstarre@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  