-- Blackstone Targets Germany Growth With Warehouse Property Deal
-- B y   D a l i a   F a h m y
-- 2013-10-16T07:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/blackstone-targets-germany-growth-with-warehouse-property-deal.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  is in talks to
buy its first logistics property in  Germany  as part of a plan to
double the company’s European warehouse holdings over the next
two years.  Blackstone, the world’s biggest manager of alternative
assets such as private equity and property, expects to make a
purchase as early as this year and then add further assets in
Europe’s biggest economy, Jonathan Lurie, the managing director
who oversees Blackstone’s European logistics portfolio, said in
an interview.  “Logistics has been a critical part of Blackstone’s
business, and Germany, as the economic engine of Europe, will
play a large role,” Lurie said. “We feel very confident about
the chances of building a sizable business there.”  Blackstone owns about 30 million square feet (2.8 million
square meters) of warehouses and distribution centers through
its London-based LogiCor unit, founded in 2012. LogiCor Chief
Executive Officer Mo Barzegar said in April that the company
plans to double its portfolio to profit from rising rents and
values. LogiCor had 26 million square feet of space at the time.  Most of LogiCor’s holdings are in the U.K.,  France  and
Poland, and the company has recently made acquisitions in the
Netherlands and  Spain . LogiCor is also seeking opportunities in
northern  Italy , Lurie said.  Increased Investment  Investment in European logistics assets rose to 6 billion
euros ($8 billion) in the first half, the highest since 2007,
according to  data compiled  by  Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (JLL)  Demand for
German warehouses and distribution centers helped reduce
European logistics yields by 10 basis points in the first half,
the Chicago-based broker said.  LogiCor has been slow to enter Germany because prices are
higher than in other European countries, Lurie said.  “Germany has not been as stressed as the other markets in
terms of occupancy or development, so it’s been a harder market
to enter,” Lurie said.  Blackstone is interested in buying assets near
transportation hubs and it’s examining deals in Munich,
Stuttgart,  Frankfurt , Hamburg and the Ruhr region, he said.  In April, LogiCor’s Barzegar said the company may buy
properties in Germany, Spain, Italy,  Belgium , the Netherlands
and Luxembourg. New York-based Blackstone plans to raise 5
billion euros for its fourth European real estate fund, a person
with knowledge of the process said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dalia Fahmy in Berlin at 
 dfahmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  