-- BlackRock’s Profit Increases 14% as Assets Rise on Rally
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-10-16T20:12:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/blackrock-s-profit-increases-14-as-assets-rise-on-rally.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , the world’s biggest
money manager, said third-quarter profit increased 14 percent as
assets rose on investor deposits into its stock exchange-traded
funds and active bond products.  Net income rose to $730 million, or $4.21 a share, from
$642 million, or $3.65, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement. BlackRock gathered $25
billion into its products in the quarter, pushing assets above
$4 trillion for the first time.  Chief Executive Officer Laurence D. Fink, 60, has
reorganized BlackRock’s businesses as he seeks to revive
investor deposits into active products and attract more
individual investors to passive ETFs. The division that manages
active bonds, revamped last year to give more accountability to
unit heads Rick Rieder and Kevin Holt, attracted $7.2 billion --
the most in almost four years. The iShares ETF unit, which
opened new equity products last year with lower fees, gathered
$21.1 billion into stock funds in the quarter.  “Long-term flows remain positive,” Daniel Fannon, an
analyst at Jefferies & Co. in  San Francisco , said today in a
note to clients.  BlackRock  gained  2.9 percent to close at $290.47 in New
York trading. The shares have advanced 41 percent this year,
compared with the 31 percent increase in the 20-member  Standard
& Poor’s  index of asset managers and custody banks.  BGI Acquisition  Excluding certain items, adjusted earnings of $3.88 a share
matched the average  estimate  of 20 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The firm  acquired   Barclays Global Investors  in December
2009 to expand into passive investments. It offers actively
managed stock and bond funds; is the largest provider of ETFs
through its iShares unit; and runs portfolios that use
mathematical models.  Fink has said BlackRock has the potential to increase its
assets by about 5 percent annually by developing new ETFs and
expanding its reach among individuals. BlackRock’s assets
increased 6.2 percent to $4.1 trillion during the quarter.  Money managers such as BlackRock, which earn fees based on
the assets they manage for clients, traditionally benefit from
rising stock markets and investor deposits into higher-fee
active funds. The MSCI All Country World Index of global stocks
rose 7.4 percent in the third quarter.  BlackRock’s revenue rose 6.6 percent to $2.5 billion,
driven by an increase in the advisory fees the firm earns for
overseeing client money. Expenses rose 4.2 percent to $1.5
billion.  ‘Idiosyncratic’ Withdrawals  Investors pulled $1.5 billion from BlackRock’s fixed-income
ETFs, and removed $5.1 billion from actively managed stock
funds.  Fink said today during a conference call with investors
that he is pleased with the performance of BlackRock’s active
equity products, and that the “idiosyncratic” withdrawals were
a result of international uncertainty in the markets. Deposits
into active fixed-income products were fueled by BlackRock’s
performance and the fact that institutional clients had more
cash on hand to invest, Fink said.  As BlackRock has sought to improve deposits into active
stock funds, Chris Leavy, chief investment officer of
BlackRock’s fundamental equity unit in the Americas, replaced
portfolio managers at strategies that represented about 40
percent of the division’s $115 billion. Leavy is currently on
medical leave.  Fidelity Partnership  In March, BlackRock enhanced its partnership with Boston-based  Fidelity Investments  to sell more ETFs directly to
individual investors. Fink said today that the relationship will
help stabilize quarterly investor deposits.  ETFs have been the fastest-growing segment of the asset-management business, benefiting firms such as BlackRock,
Vanguard Group Inc. and  State Street Corp. (STT)  In the 12 months
ended Aug. 31, ETF assets in the U.S. increased 21 percent to
$1.47 trillion, according to  data  from the Washington-based
 Investment Company Institute , the fund industry trade group.  Averting Default  Fink said during a telephone interview today he thinks the
U.S. will avert a default by the end of the month, yet the
debate is dissuading foreign investors from buying U.S.
securities.  “Do I believe there will be some resolution and that we
don’t default? The answer is still yes,” Fink said.  Policy indecision is prompting uncertainty and keeping many
investors on the sidelines, he said in the conference call with
investors.  “The narrative in  Washington  surrounding the debt ceiling
debate is reducing the confidence in investors and business
leaders leading to a short-term focus and risk aversion,” Fink
said.  Investors pulled about $60 billion from U.S. bond funds in
the third quarter, while adding $27 billion to stock funds,
according to estimates from the ICI. BlackRock had about one-third of its assets in fixed income as of Sept. 30, and about
half in equities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  