-- BlackRock Cuts Hong Kong Investment, Sees Prices Drop
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2013-10-17T08:58:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/blackrock-cuts-hong-kong-investment-seeing-drop-in-prices.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  is reducing its
investment in  Hong Kong , betting the city’s equity and property
markets will trail other Asian countries as growth slows in the
world’s two biggest economies.  Hong Kong stocks may underperform as the U.S. pares
stimulus and  China  tightens credit, said Andrew Swan, head of
Asian equities at BlackRock, the world’s largest money manager
with $4.1 trillion in assets as of Sept. 30. Home values in the
city may fall more than 10 percent into 2014 amid government
measures to curb prices and rising U.S.  interest rates , he said.  “Hong Kong is in a challenging position at the moment,”
Swan said in an interview on Oct. 10, adding that the firm had
sold shares of companies based there in the last 12 months.
“You’ve had very strong liquidity as China leveraged up and
you’ve had very low cost of credit because of the currency
situation. Now both of those things are changing.”  The  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  has risen 1.9 percent this year
compared with an 18 percent advance by the MSCI World Index of
developed-nation shares. Hong Kong’s equity benchmark more than
doubled from Oct. 27, 2008, as loose global monetary policy
after the Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. crash channeled money
into the city’s assets. The  Hang Seng Index  dropped 0.6 percent
today in Hong Kong.  An influx of mainland Chinese buyers, near-record low
interest rates and a lack of new supply have made Hong Kong the
world’s most expensive  property market .  Home prices  in the city
surged since the end of 2008, prompting the government to
introduce property curbs. Prices fell about 3.1 percent since
peaking in March and the number of homes sold in the city last
month slipped to 3,686 from 7,301 a year earlier, according to
the Hong Kong  Land Registry .  Fed Tapering  The real-estate market also faces pressure as the  Federal
Reserve  prepares to trim record stimulus. With the city’s
currency pegged to the dollar, the market tracks rising rates in
the U.S., which translates into higher mortgage costs. Hong
Kong’s benchmark  10-year (HKGG10Y)  government bond yields have climbed
about 90 basis points since Feb. 1 through yesterday. Economists
surveyed by Bloomberg expect the Fed to reduce bond purchases in
December.  “Volume generally leads price and therefore if we go down
the path of tapering, given there is no volume in the property
market here, I think you’re going to see prices start to fall,”
Swan said.  China Liquidity  The flow of funds into Hong Kong may also slow as China
reins in easy credit. Data this month showed money-supply
expansion slowed to 14 percent last month from a year earlier
and the broadest measure of credit fell to 1.4 trillion  yuan 
($229.4 billion). A government-engineered cash squeeze in June
to curb shadow banking sent money-market rates to a record high.
The central bank may tighten monetary policy well into 2014 to
tackle inflation risks, Nomura Holdings Inc. said in a report
dated Oct. 14.  “The environment is shifting, so the asset bubble we have
here is at risk,” said Swan. “China’s credit can’t keep
expanding and U.S. interest rates won’t stay low, and therefore
Hong Kong interest rates have to move up. My view is that
tapering will commence in the next six months.”  Structural changes, such as  Shanghai ’s free-trade zone, may
lead investors to question the significance of Hong Kong as
China moves to further open its economy, encouraging large
businesses to relocate, he said. Shanghai last month inaugurated
the 11-square-mile zone as a testing ground for free-market
policies that Premier  Li Keqiang  signaled may be implemented
more broadly in China.  China Reforms  “There are a lot of equities in Hong Kong that are driven
by factors outside of Hong Kong and may actually be
beneficiaries if China does go down the path of structural
reform,” said Swan. “There are companies or individual
securities which could end up having a good year, but overall
with financials having such a large exposure here, the market
may struggle.”  Swan said in July he favors  Asia ’s Internet and technology
stocks based on growth opportunities. BlackRock continues to
hold shares in the sector although it reduced its position after
recent gains.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s biggest Internet
company, has surged 51 percent since its recent low in June
through yesterday, while Samsung Electronics Co., Asia’s largest
technology company, jumped 10 percent in the period.  Korean Shares  One country where BlackRock has increased holdings is  South
Korea (KOSPI) , where companies in some sectors are forecasting better-than-expected earnings, Swan said. Boosted by a weaker yen,
Japanese exporters are focused more on profitability than
expanding market share, making them less a threat to Korean
competitors. Philippine stocks have been a key overweight as the
nation’s economy remains robust, he said.  BlackRock still favors Macau casino stocks, though a recent
surge in the shares prompted it to cut holdings.  “It’s really important to know Asia still has pockets of
attractiveness even if headwinds are still there for overall
growth,” Swan said. “We’re still seeing lots of good
opportunities in the market.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  