-- BlackRock’s Fink Tells CNBC Fed Tapering Is Being Delayed
-- B y   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2013-10-16T21:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/blackrock-ceo-fink-tells-cnbc-fed-may-avoid-tapering-until-june.html
BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  Chief Executive
Officer Laurence D. Fink said the U.S.  Federal Reserve  may not
reduce its unprecedented assets purchases until as late as June
following the political stalemate on the debt ceiling.  “It’s going to force the Federal Reserve to push off the
tapering at the very least to March, but maybe as late as
June,” Fink said today in an interview with Maria Bartiromo on
the CNBC television network.  Fink, whose firm is the world’s largest money manager, with
$4.1 trillion in assets, joins peers weighing in on when the Fed
may start to taper, after unexpectedly refraining from doing so
in September.  Jeffrey Gundlach , CEO of DoubleLine Capital LP,
said late last month that tapering wouldn’t happen until a new
chairman replaces  Ben S. Bernanke  at the end of January.  Bill Gross , co-chief investment officer of Pacific Investment
Management Co., said today on CNBC that the Fed may not start to
decrease purchases at its meeting later this month.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  held off tapering $85
billion in monthly bond purchases last month and indicated that
budget cuts and increased borrowing costs were drags on economic
expansion. Policy makers wanted to see more evidence of steady
growth to combat 7.3 percent unemployment, they said in a
statement.  Economic Data  Gundlach said during a conference call with investors Sept.
26 that the Fed has indicated a reduction of asset purchases
will depend on economic data and it’s unlikely those numbers
will improve sufficiently by the next meeting to warrant a
reduction in purchases by October.  “It’s hard to believe the data will have such a monumental
change in the next couple of weeks,” Gundlach said.  Rates on  Treasury bills  tumbled today and yields on
government notes and bonds fell as lawmakers reached a tentative
agreement to raise the nation’s borrowing capacity and remove
the risk of default. Congress is poised to end the 16-day
government shutdown and raise the U.S. debt limit after the
bipartisan leaders of the Senate reached the accord.  Rates had risen to recent highs amid concern the U.S. may
default on its debt or delay payments to debt holders if
Congress was unable to agree on a plan to increase the debt
ceiling by tomorrow’s deadline.  “The Fed ultimately has to end QE,” Gross said today on
CNBC, referring to the bond buying that is also known as
quantitative easing. “Their balance sheet won’t stand that
burden for the next three or four years.”  Fink and Gross agreed at an event Oct. 3 that the U.S.
budget standoff would be resolved without a debt default and
that the U.S. is still the best place to invest.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Leondis in  New York  at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  