-- BNY Mellon Third-Quarter Profit Rises on Tax Court Ruling
-- B y   C h a r l e s   S t e i n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-16T20:16:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/bny-mellon-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-tax-court-ruling.html
Bank of New York Mellon Corp ., the
world’s largest custody bank, said third-quarter profit
unexpectedly rose, helped by a tax court decision.  Net income increased 34 percent to $967 million, or 82
cents a share, from $720 million, or 61 cents, a year earlier,
the New York-based bank said today in a statement. Excluding the
one-time tax benefit,  BNY Mellon  earned $706 million, or 60
cents a share, compared with the 58-cent estimate by 14 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  Chief Executive Officer  Gerald Hassell  has been focused on
increasing the assets the bank oversees, cutting costs and
raising prices for existing customers to combat the impact of
 interest rates  that have been near zero since 2008. Hassell said
today that clients increasingly are moving into cash as the U.S.
approaches a potential default, pushing up deposits on the
bank’s balance sheet by more than $10 billion in the quarter.  “They are showing positive momentum in a difficult
environment,”  Marty Mosby , an analyst with Guggenheim
Securities LLC in Hernando,  Mississippi , said in a telephone
interview. He has a buy recommendation on the stock.  BNY Mellon fell 0.3 percent to close at $30.76, bringing
the gain for the year to 20 percent.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors. They also manage
investments for individuals and institutions.  Default Threat  Hassell, on a conference call today, said the bank’s
clients are getting more defensive as U.S. lawmakers fail to
reach a deal on extending the debt ceiling. Total deposits at
BNY Mellon increased by $10.7 billion in the quarter, to $255.6
billion.  BNY Mellon is taking the threat of a default “very
seriously,” and has contingency plans should lawmakers fail to
reach an agreement, he said.  Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-biggest independent U.S.
custody bank, said today that third-quarter profit rose 15
percent as cost cuts combined with rising stock markets pushed
revenue higher.  Net income at the Chicago-based bank increased to $203
million, or 84 cents a share, from $176 million, or 73 cents, a
year earlier. Assets under custody rose 10 percent to $5.24
trillion. The amount of money the company invests for clients
increased 13 percent to $846 billion.  Northern Trust rose 1 percent to close at $55.05. It has
gained 9.7 percent this year.  Tax Ruling  BNY Mellon earnings benefited after a U.S. Tax Court judge
ruled in September that the bank was entitled to deduct interest
on a loan linked to a transaction with a British bank that
generated disallowed tax credits.  Assets under custody rose 4 percent from a year earlier and
5 percent from the previous quarter, to $27.4 trillion. Assets
under management rose 13 percent from last year’s third quarter
and 7 percent from June 30, to $1.53 trillion, driven by higher
market values and new business. The asset-management unit
attracted $32 billion in long-term deposits in the quarter.  Foreign Exchange  The MSCI All-Country World Index, which tracks stock
markets in the emerging and developed world, gained 18 percent
in the 12 months ended Sept. 30. Higher stock prices lift fees
for servicing and managing client money.  Foreign exchange revenue rose 27 percent from last year to
$154 million as a result of greater volatility. The bank’s net
interest margin, the difference between what it pays on deposits
and receives on loans, fell to 1.16 percent from 1.20 percent in
the third quarter of 2012.  In 2011, Hassell trimmed jobs and set a target to save as
much as $700 million by 2015 through operational improvements.
The payoff for those cuts should show up in the form of better
earnings next year, said Mosby.  BNY Mellon earlier this month was one of 11 large U.S.
lenders that submitted “living wills” to regulators which show
how they would wind-down if they should ever go bankrupt.  The bank said in any of its scenarios, “the core business
lines and critical operations would continue in operation in
substantially the same manner as prior to resolution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Charles Stein  in Boston at 
 cstein4@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  