-- Boeing Sees $10 Billion Aero Deals in Latin America
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-10-16T18:47:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/boeing-sees-10-billion-aero-deals-in-latin-america.html
Latin American countries other than
 Brazil  could order more than $10 billion worth of space and
defense products in the next few years, according to a Boeing
Co. executive for the region.  Chile, Colombia,  Mexico  and Peru are key markets that will
drive that demand, Roberto Valla, vice president of
international business development for the Americas at Boeing’s
defense, space and security unit, said in an interview in Ottawa
today. “Those are not the only countries where we see
opportunities, but we do see at least in the near term, probably
the greatest needs in those four customer communities.”  Asked how much in potential sales the four Latin American
countries could represent, Valla said “several billions of
dollars. You can interpret that as being more than 10 and less
than 100.”  Military expenditure in the Caribbean and Central and  South
America  totaled about $75 billion in 2012, up from about $61
billion in 2007, according to  data  compiled by the Stockholm
International Peace Research Institute. The growing market is an
opportunity for Boeing which is looking to bolster defense sales
outside the U.S. to counter reduced spending levels at the
Pentagon under forced budget cuts known as sequestration.  Chicago-based Boeing got about $32.6 billion of revenue
from its defense, space and security business last year. That’s
about 40 percent of the company’s global sales of $81.7 billion.  Possible Latin America deals for Boeing include satellite
sales in Mexico, Valla said without being more specific.
Aircraft such as Chinook helicopters could also buoy Boeing’s
sales in  Latin America , Valla said.  The planemaker also sees possible defense orders in  Canada ,
Valla said today. Boeing could team up with  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Bell
Helicopter unit to bid on a search-and-rescue equipment order
that the Canadian government plans to place, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Ottawa at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  