-- Booker’s Race to U.S. Senate Ending With Eye on 2014 Run
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/booker-s-race-to-u-s-senate-ending-with-eye-on-2014-run.html
The winner of New Jersey’s special
U.S. Senate election today faces an almost immediate start to a
second campaign to capture a full six-year term, even as he
learns his role as  Washington ’s newest lawmaker.  If the victor is Democratic  Newark  Mayor  Cory Booker , the
frontrunner, he’ll have an incumbent’s edge for the November
2014 race in a state that hasn’t elected a Republican to the
Senate since 1972. He’ll also be familiar to voters, with about
60 percent of Democrats backing him in a four-way August primary
election. He went on to weather racial and homophobic attacks
from the campaign of Steve Lonegan, his Republican opponent.  Booker, 44, would have to make quick headway on his pledges
-- including defending President  Barack Obama ’s Affordable Care
Act and advocating for stricter gun laws -- in a capital where
years of partisan rancor preceded an Oct. 1 partial government
shutdown. He also may be recruited by party leaders to spread
his fundraising net, introducing Senate colleagues to executives
that have given millions of dollars to his campaigns.  “Just because he’s there doesn’t mean he’s automatically a
rock star,” said Matt Hale, who teaches politics at  Seton Hall
University  in South Orange, New Jersey. “He’s got to show he’s
got some of the skills and the gravitas to be a player in the
Senate.”  Special Dates  Urged by party leaders to challenge Republican Governor
 Chris Christie ’s re-election bid, Booker chose to declare in
December his intent to explore seeking the seat long held by
Democratic Senator  Frank Lautenberg , who hadn’t made his plans
known at that point. Two months later, Lautenberg, 89, said he
wouldn’t run again in 2014. He died in June from pneumonia.  Christie, seeking a second term in November, appointed Jeff Chiesa, the state’s Republican attorney general, as an interim
replacement and set the special-election schedule. The winner
will finish Lautenberg’s fifth term, which ends in January 2015.  The schedule set by Christie generated criticism from
Democrats who said today’s vote would cost the state $12 million
to conduct and was politically motivated. The governor defended
it as needed to quickly replace Lautenberg.  Booker, since announcing his candidacy, has raised at least
$11.5 million compared with Lonegan’s $1.36 million. The mayor’s
campaign gave backers a letter specifying that any money beyond
the $2,600 donation limit would be allotted to races through
November 2014, when he would be up for re-election if he wins.  Washington Gridlock  Booker said during an Oct. 14 campaign stop in  Atlantic
City  that he’s “not looking to get elected and start
campaigning.”  “I’m looking forward, God willing, to be elected and start
working for people,” Booker said. “If I win Wednesday, on
Thursday I’m going to start the job. The best way to campaign is
just put your head down, do your job, serve people and help
people.”  The shutdown and talks over the debt-ceiling issue make it
hard to determine when today’s winner will be seated, said
 Jennifer Duffy , who follows the Senate for the nonpartisan Cook
Political Report in Washington. Neither campaign nor the state
have set an official swearing-in date. While Senate Democrats,
who control the chamber, may seek to expedite Booker’s arrival
if he wins and they need him for a particular vote, they also
may need to delay seating him in favor of standoff negotiations.  Junior Senator  Whatever the timetable, Booker’s path -- “get on a
committee, say the right things” -- is predictable, should he
win, said  Stuart Rothenberg , editor and publisher of the
Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter. He
follows U.S. House of Representatives and Senate elections.  “He’ll make noises as if he’s participating in the
process,” Rothenberg said. “He’s not going to achieve
anything. He’s the most junior member of the Senate, which is
ruptured along party lines.”  Lonegan, 57, who was mayor of Bogota,  New Jersey , for 12
years and ran unsuccessfully once before for a House seat and
twice for governor, has said this campaign would be his last.
Should Lonegan lose, state senators Tom Kean Jr. from Westfield
and Joseph Kyrillos from Middletown could be potential 2014
Republican U.S. Senate candidates, Hale and Rothenberg said.
Both politicians have previously run unsuccessfully for a seat
in the chamber.  Kean didn’t respond to messages left by telephone and e-mail seeking comment on 2014, while Kyrillos didn’t respond to a
telephone call on the subject.  Blue State  Christie, 51, was the first Republican elected as New
Jersey’s governor since 1997. He led his Democratic challenger,
state Senator Barbara Buono of Metuchen, by 24 percentage points
in a survey released Oct. 15 by the Monmouth University polling
institute in  West Long Branch , New Jersey.  Still, New Jersey leans Democrat. Obama carried the state
by almost 18 percentage points in his re-election last year.
Registered Democrats outnumber Republicans by almost 700,000.
Voters with no affiliation exceed either party’s members.  That Republicans backed Lonegan, a Tea Party favorite whose
anti-abortion, anti-immigration views run counter to those held
by most New Jerseyans, demonstrates the lack of an “800-pound
Republican gorilla” to take on Booker, Rothenberg said.  The mayor led Lonegan by 10 percentage points in a Monmouth
University survey released Oct. 14, down from a 16 point margin
in August. The Democrat faced questions from the Republican
about his record in Newark, his stake and role in an Internet
startup based in  New York  and frequent travels for speeches.  Campaign Shockers  Rick Shaftan, a top aide to Lonegan, drew criticism to the
campaign on Oct. 11 when the Internet site Talking Points Memo
quoted him using crass language to suggest that Booker, who is
single, is homosexual. The interview was published a day after
the death of Booker’s 76-year-old father, Cary Booker Sr., who
had  Parkinson’s disease . Shaftan was fired.  In August, a Lonegan staffer used the campaign’s Twitter
Inc. Internet account to liken neighborhoods in Newark, which is
52 percent black, to  Afghanistan , Guyana, West Africa, Trinidad
and  Portugal . Booker’s campaign called the post “inappropriate
and offensive.”  Should the Democrat win the Senate seat, the Newark
Municipal Council’s president, currently Luiis Quintana, would
take over as interim mayor, with an election for the top City
Hall job to be held in May.  Duffy, of the Cook report, said the special election
results will shape Booker’s role in national races next year.  “It depends on the margin --- if it’s pretty comfortable
then I don’t think Booker will have to pivot right back into
campaign mode,” she said. In that case, she said, Senate
leaders would “like him to start raising money for the party
and for candidates right away.”  If the results are closer than anticipated, Booker will
need to learn why Lonegan made inroads. She didn’t offer a view
on what he might do if he loses the election.  “The marching orders are going to be: Pay attention to the
home front and do some re-engineering of the campaign,” she
said. “The hope of making him a surrogate and fundraiser for
the party will be on hold.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 