-- Bordeaux 2013 Vintage May Fall More Than 20% as Rain Rots Grapes
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-16T11:27:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/bordeaux-2013-vintage-may-fall-more-than-20-as-rain-rots-grapes.html
Bordeaux wine output will probably
fall more than the 20 percent forecast last month after rain at
the end of September caused grapes to rot, prompting some
growers to speed up harvesting, the local wine bureau said.  Picking of merlot variety grapes ended last week and the
harvest of red cabernet grapes may be done this week, Valerie
Descudet, a spokeswoman for the  wine bureau , said by phone. She
said while the decline is expected to be bigger than previously
forecast, it’s too early to give a precise production outlook.  Grape rot caused by wet weather adds to a cold spring that
hurt pollination and damaging summer hail. The 2013 vintage had
already been forecast to slump 20 percent from last year’s 5.25
million hectoliters (139 million gallons) for the smallest
volume since 1991, when production was 2.58 million hectoliters.  “What’s certain is that it’ll be a small harvest,”
Descudet said today. “All these weather effects result in a
drop in production. The grapes affected by rot are screened,
they’re sorted out on the table and we only keep the healthy
grapes, so that will have an effect on volume as well.”  The Agriculture Ministry earlier this month predicted
Bordeaux’s volume of designated-origin wines would slump 18
percent to 4.3 million hectoliters, with hailstorms in August
causing losses estimated at about 78 million bottles.  France ’s
total wine production is predicted to rise 6.6 percent.  Wine Index  The Liv-ex Fine Wine 50 index, which tracks leading
Bordeaux vintages, rose 3 percent in the past 12 months.  Storms and rain on Sept. 28 upset harvesting plans, with
some domains advancing grape picking, Descudet said. The city of
Bordeaux got 38 millimeters (1.5 inches) of  rain  that day, or 40
percent of the month’s precipitation, according to Meteo France.
That was followed by 45 millimeters of rain on Oct. 4.  Grape rot accelerated harvesting in Bordeaux’s Margaux
area, with some estates picking at the end of September, while
harvesting had not been expected before Oct. 10, newspaper Sud
Ouest reported Oct. 4. Merlot grapes could wait no longer due to
the weather conditions, according to the report.  The domains “juggled with the conditions, because there
were moments of rain and some of good weather,” Descudet said.
“Looking at the weather in the last days of September, that
rushed the harvest somewhat for merlot.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  