-- Brazilian Officials Tracking Gang, Say World Cup Attack Unlikely
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2013-10-16T12:45:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/brazilian-officials-tracking-gang-say-world-cup-attack-unlikely.html
Brazilian authorities said they are
tracking a criminal gang that’s threatening to target next
year’s  World Cup  although security officials say an attack is
unlikely.  Threats to the soccer competition, and Brazil’s
presidential elections later in 2014, were overheard after
police wiretapped calls made by members of a group known as
First Capital Command, or PCC, Sao Paulo’s secretariat for
security said in an e-mailed statement. Estado de S. Paulo
reported the gang was recorded saying sport’s most-watched event
would be turned into the “World Cup of Terror” if its leaders
were transferred to tougher prisons.  “It is a group that should be taken seriously and being
fought like any criminal organization,” Sao Paulo’s public
security office said in the statement. “However, the
information gathered so far by intelligence services does not
point to any indication that any attack will occur. This is not
the time to generate alarmism.”  The PCC, a group that formed inside  Sao Paulo ’s prisons,
has more than 11,000 members, according to details of a three-year investigation into its activities by prosecutors published
by local media last week.  Police chiefs in Sao Paulo, Brazil’s largest city, have
warned officers to be extra vigilant when parking their cars and
traveling home, Estado reported. It said 106 military police
were murdered in 2012 after the PCC ordered attacks on
officials.  “PCC has been investigated for at least three years by
prosecutors, with the support of the police in Sao Paulo,” the
city’s security secretariat said. “During this period several
criminals from the PCC were arrested and tons of drugs were
seized. This year the Sao Paulo police arrested more than
115,000 people, which is a record.”  Brazil  is hosting the World Cup for the first time since
1950. The opening match will be staged in Sao Paulo on June 12.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in Rio de Janeiro at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  