-- Brokers Erasing Investors’ Complaints Routinely
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2013-10-16T20:24:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/brokers-erased-complaints-routinely-after-crisis-lawyers-say.html
Stockbrokers routinely succeeded in
erasing settlements of customer complaints from their regulatory
records in the wake of 2008’s market turmoil, making it harder
for investors to research the money managers, a group of
plaintiffs lawyers said.  Brokers who resolved arbitration cases and asked for the
records to be cleared were granted expungement 97 percent of the
time from May 2009 through 2011, according to a study released
today by the Public Investors Arbitration Bar Association, a
group of lawyers who represent investors in disputes with U.S.
brokers. One person was allowed to erase 35 cases, according to
the report, which examined 483 settlements in the period.  “Investors who are diligent enough to seek out information
about brokers may be getting a woefully incomplete picture,”
Scott Ilgenfritz, the president of the group and author of the
study, said in a statement. “Regulators need to step in and
crack down on the granting of expungements.”  Firms require their investor clients to agree to resolve
disputes through arbitration, rather than in court. The results
are posted on the website of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority, the industry-funded regulator that coordinates the
forums. The arbitrators who decide the cases are supposed to
allow brokers to clear their records only of false claims,
according to Finra’s  website .  Finra said today in a  statement  that it shares the lawyers’
concerns and is considering changing its rules regarding
conditions on settlements. The group told arbitrators  this month 
that they should ask whether settlements are conditioned on
expungement and make sure brokers provide evidence supporting
their innocence, said Michelle Ong, a spokeswoman.  The regulator said in the statement that it removed 838
complaints from brokers’ records from 2007 to 2011, which
amounts to 5 percent of the 17,765 disputes filed in the period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux in  New York  at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  