-- Cameron Escalates Spat With Police Over ‘Plebgate’ Allegations
-- B y   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-16T13:05:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/cameron-escalates-spat-with-police-over-plebgate-allegations.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
escalated a dispute between members of his government and the
police by calling on officers at the center of a dispute with
former Conservative Chief Whip Andrew Mitchell to apologize.  Mitchell quit his cabinet-level job a year ago after weeks
of pressure following a Sun newspaper report that he called
police outside the premier’s Downing Street office in  London 
“plebs” and said they should “learn their place” because
they refused to let him cycle through the main gate.  Mitchell subsequently met members of the Police Federation,
which represents rank-and-file officers. Yesterday, the
Independent Police Complaints Commission questioned the
“honesty and integrity” of the three officers involved after
discrepancies in accounts of the meeting, which was recorded on
tape. The IPCC said they should face disciplinary action to
determine whether they acted to deliberately discredit him.  “He is owed an apology; the conduct of these officers was
not acceptable; these things should be properly investigated,”
Cameron told lawmakers in his weekly question-and-answer session
in Parliament in London today. “Fortunately this meeting was
recorded, so he has been able to prove that what he said was
true and what the police officers said was untrue.”  Opposition Labour Party lawmakers have also said the case
calls into question the integrity of the police, who are
supposed to be outside politics.  Cameron’s government is cutting both police numbers and
officers’ pay as it seeks to tackle the  budget deficit . IPCC
Commissioner Deborah Glass put the police’s motivation to
discredit a member of the government down to “a successful,
high-profile, anti-cuts campaign.”  The Crown Prosecution Service is considering whether to
bring criminal charges following a police investigation into the
case.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  