-- Canadian Dollar Rises to One-Week High as U.S. Has a Debt Plan
-- B y   A r i   A l t s t e d t e r
-- 2013-10-16T21:09:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/canadian-dollar-gains-as-u-s-congress-labors-to-avoid-default.html
The Canadian dollar rose to the
highest level in a week as U.S. Senate leaders reached a
bipartisan deal to end a government shutdown and avoid default,
fueling demand for riskier assets.  The currency gained against the majority of its 16 most-traded peers as Republicans from the House of Representatives
and the Senate signaled they would let the bill pass without the
provisions to defund President  Barack Obama ’s 2010 health care
plan, which they had demanded when the standoff began four weeks
ago. Crude oil, Canada’s largest export, rose and stocks gained.  “It’s good for the U.S. economy, it’s good for Canada so
it should be good for the currency and the Canadian dollar does
stand to benefit disproportionately with the U.S. coming back to
business in terms of the government,” said  David Tulk , chief
macro strategist at Toronto-Dominion Bank’s TD Securities unit,
by phone from Toronto. “The price of oil is stronger as well,
so it’s that commodity story, it’s risk assets, it’s taking out
one of the major sources of uncertainty.”  The loonie, as the Canadian dollar is known for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, gained 0.5 percent to C$1.0328
per U.S. dollar at 5:01 p.m. in Toronto, the strongest since
Oct. 8. One loonie buys 96.82 U.S. cents.  Oil, Stocks  Futures on crude oil gained 1 percent to C$102.17 per
barrel and the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of U.S. stocks added
1.4 percent.  Rates on $120 billion of bills maturing tomorrow, the same
day that Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has said the U.S. will
run out of measures being used to keep the government solvent,
dropped 28 basis points, or 0.28 percentage point, to 0.035
percent, after rising as high as 0.36 percent yesterday.  Canada ’s benchmark 10-year government  bonds  rose, with
yields falling three basis points to 2.61 percent, after
touching the highest point in almost four weeks earlier. The 1.5
percent security maturing in June 2023 rose 27 cents to C$90.60.  The Bank of Canada sold C$3.3 billion ($3.2 billion) of
two-year debt at a yield of 1.280 percent. The 1.25 percent
securities mature in February 2016.  The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by comparing
the amount bid with the amount offered, was 2.8, the most for a
two-year note since the Aug. 21 auction.  Economic Report  Canadian  factory sales  unexpectedly fell in August, with
food and automobile production slowed following maintenance
shutdowns.  Sales fell 0.2 percent to C$49.5 billion, Statistics Canada
said today in Ottawa, while economists surveyed by Bloomberg
forecast a 0.2 percent increase. Food sales fell 1.6 percent to
C$7.06 billion and motor vehicles by 2.5 percent to C$4.45
billion.  Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty’s criticism last
week of the U.S Federal Reserve’s use of unconventional monetary
policy to stimulate the economy could put him at odds with the
Bank of Canada, which lists such policies as tools for when its
key policy rate is as low as possible.  Options traders assign no probability for the central bank
to raise its benchmark interest rate at its Oct. 23 policy
meeting, pricing in 0.4 basis points looser policy, according to
Bloomberg calculations based on overnight index swaps.  The government is forecast to turn its focus to consumer
issues in a mid-term update today, the so-called Speech from the
Throne.  Monthly Performance  The loonie has fallen 0.9 percent in the past month against
nine developed nation currencies tracked by the Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Index. The Australian dollar has gained 1.9
percent and the U.S. dollar has fallen 0.9 percent.  The U.S. fiscal framework negotiated by Senators Harry Reid, a Democrat, and Mitch McConnell, a Republican, would fund
the government at those Republican-backed levels through Jan.
15, 2014, and suspend the debt limit until Feb. 7, setting up
another round of confrontations. The U.S. government has been
closed the past 16 days and failure to raise the debt ceiling
may have left the country unable to pay its bills past tomorrow.  “America is home to the Hail Mary touchdown pass, the
11th-hour deal, and all you’re seeing here is not necessarily
posturing, but the creation of atmosphere for a dramatic
agreement to come in at the last minute,” said Brad Schruder, a
director of foreign exchange at Bank of Montreal, by phone from
Toronto. “You should see the Canadian dollar do better against
the U.S. dollar.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Altstedter in Toronto at 
 aaltstedter@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  