-- Canada Says It Will Introduce Balanced Budget Law
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s   a n d   A n d r e w   M a y e d a
-- 2013-10-16T21:43:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/canada-says-it-will-introduce-balanced-budget-law.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  pledged to introduce legislation that would keep the
nation’s finances at or near balance to maintain the country’s
status as one of the world’s most creditworthy nations.  Harper, in a mid-term  update  of his agenda released today,
said he will legislate a rule that requires balanced budgets in
“normal economic times, and concrete timelines for returning to
balance in the event of an economic crisis.”  Canada is the only Group of Seven country with stable AAA
credit ratings from three major rating companies, an advantage
that helped the country escape the worst of the global financial
crisis last decade. Balancing the budget has been a key plank of
the government’s economic agenda.  “We cannot be complacent,” Harper said in the so-called
 Speech from the Throne  that marks the ceremonial opening of a
new legislative session in Ottawa. “The global economy still
faces significant risks from factors that we do not control.”  Harper also pledged to freeze the federal government’s
total operating budget, and make the public service more
efficient, including a review of federal assets to determine
whether they need to be sold.  Harper reiterated his pledged to balance the  budget  by 2015
and lower the nation’s debt-to-gross domestic product ratio to
25 percent by 2021, bringing debt levels to the lowest since the
1970s, as part of commitments by Group of 20 nations to
establish longer-term fiscal strategies.  Resource Development  Jobs and growth remain his government’s top priorities,
Harper said, adding the nation’s prosperity depends on the
“responsible development” of its natural resources. He
reiterated his pledge to keep them out of foreign-government
control.  “Our government will continue to ensure that our natural
resource sectors remain open to foreign investment when it is
market-oriented,” according to the text of a speech provided to
reporters.  Other growth-promoting efforts will include investing C$70
billion ($67.8 billion) on infrastructure projects over the next
decade, he said.  Harper also turned his focus to consumer issues such as the
cost of telephone and cable TV. Harper said the government’s
initiatives will include changes to cable television practices
to “require channels to be unbundled,” rather than being
making consumers pay for packages, as well as lowering domestic
roaming fees for wireless phones.  Other consumer friendly measures will include efforts to
expand “no-cost” basic banking services and efforts to close
the gap between U.S. and Canadian prices for consumer products.  Canada  will also require railways to boost insurance
coverage.  The speech reiterated that Canada and the European Union
are close to an agreement in principle on a free trade pact.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  