-- McCain Says Questions Remain as Irish Calm Apple Issue
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n ,   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   J e s s e   D r u c k e r
-- 2013-10-16T11:14:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/mccain-says-irish-face-questions-even-as-apple-loophole-t.html
Senator  John McCain  said Ireland
still faces questions on how corporations use the country to
lower taxes after Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  moved to calm
a controversy triggered by  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s practices.  Noonan laid out plans yesterday to scrap a measure in
allowing companies registered in the country to be
“stateless” in terms of tax residency. This may enable
companies to channel worldwide profits through their Irish-incorporated company and not have a tax liability anywhere,
Noonan told reporters. He said “not very many” firms other
than Apple do this.  While Apple has said it doesn’t use “tax gimmicks,”
McCain and fellow Senator  Carl Levin  labeled Ireland a tax haven
in hearings in March. Apple, the maker of iPhones and iPads,
reduced its tax bill by setting up a unit in Cork, which didn’t
declare tax residency in Ireland because it’s neither managed
nor controlled in the country, according to Senate hearings. As
the unit is incorporated in Ireland, it’s not U.S. tax resident.  Noonan’s move “is encouraging,”  Arizona  Republican McCain
and Levin, the Michigan Democrat who leads the U.S. Senate
investigations subcommittee, said in a statement late yesterday.  “Important questions do remain, however, including whether
the new rules will continue to allow Irish subsidiaries to dodge
taxes by, for example, excluding substantial income” from
Ireland’s 12.5 percent corporate tax rate, they said.  While the proposal targets companies like Apple using Irish
subsidiaries that don’t declare a tax residence anywhere, many
U.S. multinational companies rely on Irish subsidiaries that
claim to be “tax resident” in zero or low tax jurisdictions --
which accomplishes the same savings.  An e-mail request for comment from Apple through its press
office in London wasn’t immediately responded to.  Google Bill  Google last year cut $2.2 billion off its tax bill by
paying royalties to an Irish unit that it said is headquartered
in Bermuda. The announcement by Noonan would not affect that
structure, known as a “Double Irish.”  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  has paid royalties to an Irish subsidiary
resident in Grand Cayman;  LinkedIn Corp. (LNKD)  has paid royalties to a
subsidiary that is resident in the Isle of Man; anti-virus
software maker  Symantec Corp. (SYMC)  uses one claiming residency on the
island of Jersey; and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  has managed its tax bill using
an Irish subsidiary that declared its tax residence in
Luxembourg, corporate filings show.  “We regard reputation as very important,” Noonan said.
“We know that Irish corporate tax law came under scrutiny in a
number of inquiries recently. We don’t want to incur any
reputational damage.”  The nation remained committed to its 12.5 percent company
tax rate, Noonan said.  “Ireland wants to be tax compliant and not seen as some
haven for tax avoidance,” said  Alan McQuaid , economist at
Merrion Capital in Dublin. “The fact that the corporate tax
rate itself hasn’t been touched is the main thing and that
should help to keep attracting foreign direct investment in the
next few years.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  