-- China’s PBOC Sees Credit Growth Pressure From Fed Tapering Delay
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-16T10:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/china-s-pboc-sees-credit-growth-pressure-from-fed-tapering-delay.html
China  faces pressure for faster
credit growth because of capital inflows stemming from the
 Federal Reserve ’s decision to hold off from reducing stimulus,
the  People’s Bank of China  said.  “The pressure for monetary and credit expansion is still
large” as the trade surplus climbs and capital flows in, the
central bank said today in a  statement  on its website, citing
the Fed’s “delayed” exit from monetary easing. The statement
didn’t mention the standoff among American lawmakers that risks
triggering a U.S. default.  China’s foreign-exchange reserves rose last quarter by the
most in more than two years, a sign the government’s efforts to
protect growth attracted money even as developing nations from
 India  to  Indonesia  saw capital exit. Inflation and new lending
exceeded analysts’ estimates last month.  “It’s clear now that the central bank will not ease its
monetary or credit policy,” said Xu Gao, chief economist with
Everbright Securities Co. in Beijing, who previously worked for
the  World Bank . “But it doesn’t mean that the central bank will
shift to an absolute tightening model.”  Xu said the central bank could lean toward tightening in
its open-market operations, referring to the bill sales used to
manage liquidity.  Nomura Holdings Inc. economists led by Zhang Zhiwei wrote
in a Oct. 14 note that the central bank may tighten after a key
Communist Party meeting in November to rein in inflation,
limiting the nation’s growth to as little as 6.9 percent next
year, compared with this year’s 7.5 percent target.  “China’s banking system liquidity, overall, is still
ample,” the central bank said today. “We believe banking
system liquidity will continue to stay at a reasonable and
appropriate level.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  