-- China’s Stocks Fall Most in 3 Weeks on Economic Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-16T07:38:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/china-stock-index-futures-fall-amid-jpmorgan-cut-u-s-talks.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in
three weeks after JPMorgan Chase & Co. advised reducing holdings
and companies linked to  Shanghai ’s free-trade zone tumbled on
concern valuations are excessive.  Shanghai International Port (Group) Co. and Shanghai
Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone Development Co.  plunged  more than 8
percent after more than doubling since Aug. 22. Aluminum
Corporation of China Ltd. and Jiangxi Copper Co., the nation’s
biggest producers of aluminum and copper, led declines for metal
producers. Poly Real Estate Group Co. fell 2.3 percent, dragging
a gauge of property developers to its biggest loss since June.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid 1.8 percent to 2,193.07
at the close, the biggest loss since Sept. 26. JPMorgan cut
China to underweight, citing an economic slowdown and potential
policy disappointment from a Communist Party meeting in
November. Consumer prices quickened last month, while exports
unexpectedly fell, according to government reports.  “There are increasing worries about the economy,” Li Jun,
a strategist at Central  China  Securities Co., said from
Shanghai. “We may have reached bottom but we don’t see much
upside in the economic numbers. There are also concerns that the
meeting in November may not provide much detail and our stocks
rallied excessively on policy expectations.”  The CSI 300 Index fell 1.9 percent to 2,421.37, with gauges
of telecom, consumer-discretionary, technology and industrial
companies losing more than 2 percent. The ChiNext index of small
companies declined 3.9 percent. The Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index retreated 0.7 percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index
slid 0.7 percent yesterday.  Free Trade  The Shanghai Composite has climbed 13 percent from its
four-year low on June 27, boosted by speculation the city’s
free-trade zone will attract foreign companies and allow for
financial liberalization. The China Securities Regulatory
Commission today denied market speculation the zone will
introduce an international stocks board, saying rules don’t
allow foreign companies to sell shares in the trade area.  Shanghai Waigaoqiao declined 9.5 percent to 46.19  yuan ,
paring gains to 211 percent since Aug. 22, when the Commerce
Ministry said the government approved a trade area in the city.
Shanghai International Port dropped 8.9 percent to 5.24 yuan,
trimming a rally since Aug. 22 to 105 percent. The company’s
estimated price-earnings ratio jumped to a three-year high of
27.3 last month.  Property Curbs  Shanghai, the nation’s commercial hub, last month
inaugurated an 11-square-mile trade zone as a testing ground for
free-market policies. Companies with the word “Shanghai” in
their name have paced the benchmark stock index’s rebound from a
four-year low in June and the rally has spread to shares in
Tianjin and Qingdao as investors speculated the government will
let more cities follow Shanghai’s plan.  A measure of  developers  in the Shanghai index slid 4.2
percent, the biggest loss among five industry groups. Poly REal
Estate, the second-largest developer, fell 2.3 percent to 9.61
yuan. Gemdale Corp. declined 2.6 percent to 5.91 yuan. Shanghai
Lujiazui Finance & Trade Zone Development Co. plunged 10 percent
to 22.79 yuan.  Chinese real-estate stocks were dragged down by concern of
potential tightening after the Communist Party plenum next
month, Credit Suisse property analyst Jinsong Du wrote in an e-mailed message. Premier Li Keqiang and President Xi Jinping are
expected to seek support for national plans to reduce the
government’s hand in the economy and financial system at the
meeting.  The Shanghai index trades at 8.7 times projected earnings
for the next 12 months, compared with the five-year average of
12.6, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Trading volumes in the
stocks measure were 1 percent above the 30-day average.  Economic Outlook  The government is scheduled to publish third-quarter gross
domestic product data on Oct. 18. The economy probably expanded
7.8 percent from a year earlier, according to a Bloomberg
survey, up from the second quarter’s 7.5 percent pace.  “The most recent rally was from late June,”  Adrian Mowat ,
Hong Kong-based equity strategist at JPMorgan, wrote in a note
dated yesterday. “This cyclical lift appears to be fading
faster than we hoped.”  Chalco, as Aluminum Corp. of China is called, slid 4.5
percent to 4.28 yuan. The company plans to sell its stake in a
venture in  Guinea  to a unit of its parent for about $2.07
billion. Jiangxi Copper slumped 4 percent to 15.48 yuan. Cosco
Shipping Co. plunged 4.7 percent to 3.62 yuan.  U.S. Debt  Senate leaders are resuming talks aimed at avoiding a U.S.
default and ending the 15-day-old government shutdown after the
Republican-controlled House scrapped a vote on its plan.  China, the U.S.’s largest creditor abroad, urged American
lawmakers opposed to raising the debt limit by tomorrow to get
out of the way.  The U.S. must “shoulder its responsibility” as the
world’s biggest economy and holder of the main reserve currency
and “take concrete measures before Oct. 17 to avoid a
default,” Deputy Finance Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said at a
briefing with reporters yesterday in Beijing.  “We are also worried about the U.S. debt problem,” Zhang Haidong, strategist at Tebon Securities, said in an interview
from Shanghai. “If the deal fails, it will impact the global
economy, including China.”  Prince Frog International Holdings Ltd. plunged by the most
on record in Hong Kong after short-seller Glaucus Research Group
questioned the company’s sales and branded the baby-care
products maker a strong sell. The shares were halted after
dropping as much as 26 percent to HK$4.66, heading for the
biggest decline since its July 2011 listing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allen Wan in Shanghai at 
 awan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  