-- Everbright Bank Wins Approval for Overseas Share Sale
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-16T23:25:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/china-everbright-bank-wins-csrc-approval-to-sell-shares-overseas.html
(Corrects first paragraph to show Everbright Bank won
approval to sell as many as 12 billion shares.)  China Everbright Bank Co. (601818)  won
regulatory approval to sell as many as 12 billion shares
overseas, paving the way for an offering in Hong Kong.  The Beijing-based lender said in a statement to Shanghai’s
stock exchange yesterday that it won China Securities Regulatory
Commission permission to sell the stock. Shares of the bank
traded in the city closed at 2.81  yuan .  After the share sale, the company can then apply to list
its shares on the Hong Kong stock exchange’s main board, which
will require the bourse’s approval, according to the statement.  Everbright Bank, China’s 11th largest by market value, won
board approval in March to sell as many as 12 billion shares in
 Hong Kong . The company had planned to raise as much as $6
billion from a sale in the city, before scaling it back to about
$1.7 billion and then delaying the offering in August 2012,
citing sluggish  capital markets  and low valuations of bank
shares.  The Chinese lender said on March 12 the offer would take
place within 18 months, with the exact timing to be determined
“according to the state of global and Chinese capital
markets.”  The MSCI All-Country World Index climbed 7.3 percent since
then through 9:11 p.m. Hong Kong time yesterday. China’s
benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  sank 4.1 percent, while the
Hang Seng China Enterprises Index of mainland shares traded in
Hong Kong lost 5.9 percent.  Everbright Bank shares in  Shanghai  have fallen 13 percent
in that period. The stock was  valued  at 4 times 12-month
projected profit, less than half the Shanghai Composite’s
multiple of 8.7, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Wei in Shanghai at 
 mwei13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  