-- Christie Tangles With Buono on Taxes to Bosses in Debate
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2013-10-16T04:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/christie-tangles-with-buono-on-taxes-to-bosses-in-debate.html
New Jersey  Governor Chris Christie
said he’ll work as hard as he ever has if he’s re-elected, while
Democratic challenger Barbara Buono said he has allied himself
with political bosses and left small businesses behind, as the
two held their final debate in a lopsided race last night.  Christie, a prospective 2016 presidential contender, and
Buono also jabbed at each other over spending, the partial U.S.
government shutdown and  Hurricane Sandy . The Democrat accused
the governor of funding boardwalk rebuilding along the shore and
overlooking homeowners who were devastated by the Oct. 29 storm.  “This is the last political campaign that I’ll ever run in
New Jersey,” Christie, 51, said near the end of the 90-minute
debate at  Montclair State University . “I ask the people of New
Jersey to give me another four years to build upon the successes
we’ve had in the last four.”  In their debate last week, Christie brushed off questions
about whether he would run for the White House if re-elected and
said he wouldn’t let his future plans interfere with doing his
job in a second term. Last night, he said he didn’t know what
the future might hold for him or the state, and pledged to work
as diligently as he has since taking office if re-elected.  “I‘m not bothered by the fact that he’s running” for the
White House, Buono said, repeating a line she used last week
about the governor. “I’m bothered by how he’s running.” She
then reeled off actions she said were designed to appeal to the
right flank of the Republican party, such as vetoing a gun-control bill and blocking same-sex marriage.  No Distractions  “I’m only going to answer to one entity and that’s all of
you,” Buono, a 60-year-old state senator from Metuchen, said to
the audience. “I’m tough. I got to this position without anyone
handing it to me and I’m doing it for the right reasons. I’m
here for the middle class and the working poor and I’m not here
to serve the narrow interests of any political bosses.”  Christie, who has worked with Democratic Party leaders to
advance several legislative initiatives, denied those
relationships were improper and said they’ve helped him in his
first term. Buono criticized his tactics as the type of backroom
New Jersey politics that have hampered the state for decades.  The governor shot back that Buono had allied herself with a
former Middlesex County sheriff, Joseph Spicuzzo, who pleaded
guilty to corruption charges earlier this year.  Buono said she has run her political career as an outsider
and said she won’t be swayed by bosses of either party.  ‘The Underdog’  “I am the underdog -- I am the little guy and I’m fine
with that,” Buono said. “I embrace it and I’ve fought my
entire life for the underdog and little guys.”  Christie said working with Democratic leaders has allowed
him to curb growth in property taxes, reduce state pension costs
and balance four budgets without raising taxes.  “All that work has been bipartisan and I’m proud of that
record,” Christie said. He also said those alliances helped him
“run the government in a way that’s more effective and
efficient.”  Christie, the only U.S. governor seeking re-election this
year, has a wide lead over Buono in fundraising and in voter
surveys. He has brought in $6 for every $1 she’s collected,
while the most recent polls showed him ahead by about 30
percentage points. A landslide win in a Democratic stronghold
may give him a launching pad for a presidential bid.  Confident Performance  Buono, a one-time Senate leader, emerged as her party’s
choice to take on Christie after more-popular Democrats,
including Newark Mayor  Cory Booker , chose not to challenge him.
Booker instead is seeking a U.S. Senate seat in a special
election today to fill the opening left by the June death of
U.S. Senator  Frank Lautenberg , an 89-year-old Democrat.  Brigid Harrison , who teaches law and government at
Montclair State and was a debate panelist, said Buono came
across as more confident than she had in last week’s meeting.  “It was almost like someone who had nothing left to lose
so she just let it go,” Harrison said in an interview. “There
are so few undecided voters left that I think if anything it
shored up her support among the Democratic base. But at this
point, I don’t think it will do anything to significantly change
the poll numbers.”  She said the governor also did well in the confrontation.  Christie led Buono 62 percent to 33 percent in an Oct. 10
poll by Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University . The
Oct. 5-7 telephone survey of 1,144 likely voters, with a margin
of error of 2.9 percentage points, showed 59 percent of women
backed the governor along with 28 percent of Democrats.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 