-- Cities Fixing Budgets Prove Haven Amid U.S. Impasse: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2013-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/cities-fixing-budgets-prove-haven-amid-u-s-impasse-muni-credit.html
Municipal bonds are rallying the
most in six months against federal debt, showing how bolstered
local-government budgets are making city and state borrowings a
haven from political turmoil over a possible U.S. default.  While  interest rates  on 12-month Treasuries have  almost
doubled  since the U.S. shutdown began Oct. 1,  yields  on AAA
munis maturing in a year have dropped. The ratio of the yields,
a measure of relative value, fell to about 208 percent yesterday
from 370 percent Sept. 30, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
narrowest gap since April indicates that state and city bonds
have grown more expensive.  The shift shows investors are betting that improving state
and local tax revenue will cushion munis should U.S. lawmakers
fail to break an impasse over raising the $16.7 trillion debt
ceiling. The federal government will run out of room to borrow
more on Oct. 17, according to Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew.  “You have a safe haven in municipal bonds because of the
diversification of issuers and the strength of repayment
capacity on the state and local level,” said Benjamin Thompson,
chief executive officer in  New York  at Samson Capital Advisors,
which oversees about $6 billion in local debt.  “There’s stability and predictability to this market that
you’re not going to see in the Treasury market, which is going
to come down to a few key political decisions made at the top
echelon of government,” he said.  Healthy Cities  Unlike at the federal level, budget battles have receded in
statehouses, where tax collections have increased for 15
straight quarters, Census Bureau data show. During fiscal 2013,
which ended in June for most states, revenue rose 5.3 percent
from the prior year, boosting the amount of money they had at
year-end by 23 percent, according to the Denver-based  National
Conference of State Legislatures .  U.S. cities, which have taken longer to rebound from the
18-month recession that ended in June 2009, are also showing
strengthened finances. They’re projecting their first revenue
increase since 2006, according to a survey released last week
from the Washington-based  National League of Cities .  Benchmark one-year munis yielded 0.31 percent yesterday,
down from 0.33 percent on Sept. 30, Bloomberg data show. The
interest rate on 12-month Treasuries rose to 0.15 percent, up
from about 0.09 percent on Sept. 30.  States’ Strength  State general-obligation bonds are considered sub-sovereign
debt, backed by governments’ full faith and credit and taxing
authority. The securities have rallied compared with the rest of
munis, with yields 1.02 percentage point below the average for
the $3.7 trillion market, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data
show. That’s the widest advantage since August 2011, when the
federal government last had a debt-ceiling showdown.  Interest payments on most munis aren’t directly tied to the
federal government. Debt service is instead funded from sources
such as state and local income taxes, water and electricity fees
and hospital charges.  Moody’s Investors Service said last month that local bonds
backed by federal mass-transit aid, called Grant Anticipation
Revenue Vehicles, or Garvees, are the most vulnerable to a U.S.
shutdown. At least $10 billion of the bonds are outstanding,
according to Bloomberg data.  ‘Feel Better’  Some Alabama Garvees maturing in September 2023 traded
yesterday at a yield of 3.14 percent, or 0.57 percentage point
above benchmark munis. It was the widest spread since Sept. 26.  “These sub-sovereigns -- states, local governments and
essential revenue issuers -- may on a relative basis feel better
to investors to be in than something with a more direct link to
the U.S. government,” said Jamie Iselin, head of munis at New
York-based Neuberger Berman. The company oversees about $9
billion in local debt.  Local-government budgets are vulnerable should the federal
stalemate continue. Forty states rely on federal revenue for at
least 31 percent of total government funds, according to
Moody’s.  States such as Louisiana, Idaho and  Arizona , which rely on
federal dollars for at least 41 percent of total funds, may
compensate by transferring less money to localities and health-care providers, Moody’s said.  That process was one reason cities have struggled to raise
revenue after the longest recession since the 1930s. The
projected increase still won’t be enough to keep pace with
spending as pension and health-care costs increase, according to
the League of Cities survey.  ‘Tenuous’ Improvement  “Cities are starting to see improvement, but we know that
it’s tenuous,” Christiana McFarland, one of the survey’s
authors, said in an interview. “Given the climate at the
federal level, cities have reason to be cautious.”  The standoff in  Washington  has failed to deter some
municipal issuers. States and cities are set to offer $4.9
billion in bonds this week, the most since the period through
Sept. 27.  The biggest deal this week is from the Dormitory Authority
of the State of New York, which is borrowing $1 billion,
Bloomberg data show.  Morris Peters, a spokesman for Governor  Andrew Cuomo ’s
budget division, said officials are “monitoring the uncertain
situation in Washington but are continuing to plan for the
sale,” scheduled for today and tomorrow.  Rockland Ready  Rockland County, the New York suburb that Moody’s rates one
level above junk, has a $34 million competitive sale set for
Oct. 17. The county may pull the borrowing if financial markets
are in turmoil, said Finance Commissioner Stephen DeGroat.  “If everything is continuing the way it is so far, it’ll
be a normal sale,” he said in an interview.  The county and other local issuers will be selling with the
interest rate on AAA 10-year munis at  2.78 percent , close to the
highest since Sept. 23, Bloomberg data show. That compares with
 2.73 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  The ratio of the yields is about 102 percent, the lowest
this month. That compares with an average of 94 percent since
2001.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in New York at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  