-- Citic Sets Up China Rural Land Trust as Reforms Accelerate
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-16T10:34:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/citic-sets-up-china-rural-land-investment-fund-as-reforms-mount.html
Citic Trust Co. set up  China ’s first
trust to invest in rural land, offering farmers a way to cash in
on their usage rights as the world’s second-largest economy
continues property reforms and speeds up urbanization.  The investment product will lease 5,400 mu (360 hectares)
from rural residents in the northern part of Anhui province,
Citic Trust, part of the state-controlled holding company led by
Citic Group Corp., said in a statement on its website yesterday.
The trust will then transfer the rights to a farming company,
according to the statement, which said this is the first such
vehicle in the country.  Under Chinese law, farmers own rights to use land
collectively and can’t sell directly to developers. That’s
sparked protests by residents who accuse local officials of
paying below-market prices for plots that they then sell to
developers at a profit.  The establishment of the trust follows a government pledge
last month to speed up ownership verification for collectively
owned rural land. The country may push land policy reforms
forward after a Communist Party meeting in November, China
Securities Journal reported on Sept. 4, citing an unidentified
person.  The southern province of Guangdong in August published
draft rules that propose allowing farmers to sell their land
rights on a limited basis as more of the nation’s rural
population migrates to cities.  A rebound in  home prices  pushed up average residential land
values in the first eight months of the year by 43 percent from
the same period in 2012, according to China Investment
Securities Co.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net ;
Zhang Dingmin in Beijing at 
 dzhang14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  