-- CME Boosts Margin for Rate Swaps 12% on U.S. Default Concern
-- B y   M a t t h e w   L e i s i n g
-- 2013-10-16T20:06:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/cme-boosts-rate-swap-margin-12-on-u-s-debt-default-concern.html
CME Group Inc. (CME)  increased margin
levels by 12 percent for the  interest-rate swaps  that its
clearinghouse guarantees, citing the risk that negotiations over
avoiding a U.S. government default will spur volatility.  The owner of the world’s largest futures market will boost
the requirement over four days, with the first of the four
planned 3 percent increases taking effect today, according to a
 notice  posted on Chicago-based CME Group’s website.  The announcement was made as Senate leaders resumed talks
aimed at avoiding a U.S. default. Today, Congress is poised to
end the 16-day government shutdown and raise the U.S. debt
limit. Unless Congress increases the limit, the federal
government will be operating only on cash and incoming revenues
starting tomorrow, and will begin missing payments between Oct.
22 and Oct. 31, according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  “CME Clearing is closely monitoring the developments
related to the U.S. reaching its debt ceiling,” CME Group said
in the notice. “Anticipating possible market moves specific to
this event, CME will increase margin for all” over-the-counter
interest-rate swaps.  The exchange owner has $6.4 trillion in notional value of
rate swaps that are active in its clearinghouse, said Laurie Bischel, a spokeswoman. Notional value is the amount used to
calculate payment flows in swap contracts and doesn’t represent
actual money changing hands.  Margin Estimate  The 12 percent margin increase could amount to $1.5 billion
to $2 billion in additional margin before the effect of netted
positions is accounted for,  Niamh Alexander , an analyst with KBW
Inc. in  New York , wrote in a note to clients today.  “We expect the industry can relatively easily meet these
demands and don’t expect much impact on CME’s business,” she
said. “If anything the underlying cliff hanging negotiations in
DC are probably good for business with all this volatility and
hedging around it.”  CME Group  shares  rose 1.8 percent to $76.49 today, posting
the  fourth-biggest gain  in the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index.  Volatility in U.S. Treasuries as measured by the Bank of
America Merrill Lynch MOVE index fell to 75.81 yesterday,
compared with this year’s average of 72.48. The measure  jumped 
to a seven-month high of 117.80 on Aug. 8, 2011, after  Standard
& Poor’s  reduced the U.S. credit rating amid another dispute
over increasing the nation’s debt limit.  Treasury Auction  Also yesterday, rates on Treasury bills due in October
soared and the U.S. attracted the least demand at weekly bill
auctions since 2009. The $35 billion in three-month bills were
sold at the lowest bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing the amount bid with the amount offered, since July
2009. The ratio for $30 billion six-month bills was the lowest
since October 2009. Rates on bills due Oct. 24 jumped to the
highest level since the securities were sold in April.  CME Group’s clearinghouse guarantees futures and swaps
contracts based on  interest rates , Treasuries, gold, oil, the
creditworthiness of companies, and currencies. Clearinghouses
require margin as protection against losses should traders
default on their obligations.  “This is a temporary measure and is subject to review
depending on market conditions,” CME Group said in the notice
announcing the increased margin for interest-rate swaps. “It
will be rolled back upon resolution of market uncertainty
stemming from this specific event risk.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Leising in New York at 
 mleising@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  