-- Colleges Offer Application Alternatives Amid ‘Common App’ Bugs
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2013-10-16T16:40:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/colleges-offer-application-alternatives-amid-common-app-bugs.html
With the U.S. college application
season in full swing, some universities are informing panicked
high school seniors about alternate ways to apply as technical
issues affect the system used by more than 500 institutions.  Malfunctions in the Common Application propelled  Princeton
University  to offer the  Universal College Application .  Southern
Methodist University  e-mailed thousands of potential applicants
about its own online form and another through a group of  Texas
schools .  Gustavus Adolphus College  is informing visitors that
the Minnesota school has an online tool.  Students and colleges alike have experienced problems using
the Common Application, with only weeks before the deadline for
early applicants. The website, which lets students apply to
multiple colleges with one form, rolled out new software on Aug.
1. The site has been down at various points and students may not
know if their materials are being received. Colleges’ reliance
on one application company has exposed a flaw, said Jeff
McLaughlin, dean of admissions at St. Olaf College.  “We do not have a strong Plan B,” McLaughlin said in an
interview from the Northfield, Minnesota-based school. “That’s
not good planning on our part. We had gotten complacent because
there had not been problems with the Common Application” in the
past, he said.  St. Olaf has been encouraging students to fill out  Part One 
of the application on the school’s website so it can at least
communicate with them, even though they must still use the
Common Application.  “We’re not in a competitive position that lets me sleep
well at night,” McLaughlin said.  Frustrated Students  The  Common Application,  a nonprofit membership organization
based in Arlington,  Virginia , has existed for more than 35
years. In the 2012-2013 school year,  723,576 applications  were
submitted, an increase of 75 percent from the 2008-2009 year,
according to its website. Last year, almost 300,000 teachers
submitted online recommendations.  The company has posted updates on social media, including
Twitter and Facebook, saying it is investigating the glitches.
In a statement yesterday, it said the most frequently reported
problems involved errors when attempting to log in, credit-card
payments that take a day or more to register, and the resulting
delay in submitting an application.  “None of these issues impacts all users, but each
introduces a level of frustration for students, which adds
anxiety to an already stressful process,” the company said.
“These issues also have the potential to impact processes and
deadlines for our member colleges, and we are especially
appreciative of colleges that have taken steps to reassure
students and parents.”  ‘Functional’ Application  Colleges are looking for solutions. Princeton added the
second application portal to offer another option to students,
said Martin Mbugua, a spokesman for the Ivy League school in  New
Jersey .  “It became necessary because the students and secondary
schools have been facing challenges with the system, and we
needed a functional online application,” he said in an e-mail.  Students visiting Gustavus Adolphus, in St. Peter,
 Minnesota , are being told they have another option, said Richard
Aune, dean of admissions. The school has rolling, early
admissions, and students don’t have to commit until May.  “If you want to hear before Jan. 1, it would behoove you
to use our application,” Aune said in an interview. The school
last year received about 4,900 requests for admission.  School Tools  Southern Methodist in  Dallas  e-mailed more than 37,000
students to say they can opt to use the  school’s application ,
Wes Waggoner, dean of undergraduate admission, said in an
interview. About half of last year’s 14,000 applications came
from either the Texas application portal or the school’s
website.  Rebecca Joseph, an associate professor of education at
 California State University  in  Los Angeles , who helps low-income
students apply to college and counsels students privately, said
she’s had clients use schools’ own websites, including SMU and
 Wake Forest University  in  North Carolina .  “You can’t tell a 17-year-old whose future is riding on
this to be patient,” Joseph said. “That’s why they are taking
another route. It’s affecting parents, kids, high schools and
colleges all at the same time.”  Colleges are also posting information to let applicants
know of difficulties they are having on the receiving end.  Chapman University  in Orange,  California , is telling
applicants that because of processing delays with the Common
Application, the admissions office is taking longer than usual,
sometimes several weeks, to update students about the status of
their application.  Deadline Extensions  “Please be assured that Chapman is aware of these issues
and we will work with you to make sure your application
materials are received and evaluated appropriately,” the school
said on its website.  Some colleges with Oct. 15 deadlines for early applications
have extended them, including  University of North Carolina  at
 Chapel Hill  and  Georgia Tech University , according to their
websites. Students who apply early typically hear whether they
have been accepted before the end of the year. The regular
decision application deadline for many schools is Jan. 1.  Max Duff, 17, of Louisville,  Kentucky , hadn’t been able to
submit an application from a print preview screen to Georgia
Tech and feared missing the deadline before the announced
postponement.  He finally succeeded at 6:45 a.m. on Monday.  “It made me a little anxious,” said Duff, who plays
basketball and wants to study electrical engineering or computer
science. He said he feels for the technicians at the Common App.
“They are trying to deal with it the best they can.”  Christoph Guttentag,  Duke University ’s dean of
undergraduate admissions, said while the process of applying
will be more difficult than in years past, he’s confident the
problems will be fixed. Duke’s early deadline is Nov. 1, and
last year it took 44 percent of its class in the early pool, he
said in an interview.  “In the end, it will all work out,” Gutttentag said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  