-- Cooley Adds Dow Lohnes Washington Office: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2013-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/cooley-adds-dow-lohnes-washington-office-business-of-law.html
Cooley LLP, known for its technology
practice, is combining with Dow Lohnes PLLC’s  Washington  office,
giving the firm 54 more attorneys in the U.S. capital, most with
strong regulatory experience.  The Dow Lohnes group counts communications, higher
education and media among its three key practice areas. The
firm’s 12-lawyer Atlanta office won’t be joining Cooley, and the
lawyers there have until the end of the year to find new jobs,
according to John Byrnes, Dow Lohnes’s managing partner.  “We’ve long had part of our strategic plan, expanding the
regulatory practices in Washington and enhancing our credibility
inside the Beltway,” Joseph Conroy, the chief executive officer
of Cooley, said in a phone interview. “Their practices are so
instantly and highly deployable into our client base, it fits
masterfully.”  Last week, Venable LLP added two former Dow Lohnes partners
in Washington. In September, Sutherland Asbill & Brennan LLP
added five of its technology, media and telecommunications
lawyers in Washington, including three partners. The month
before, Sutherland hired four other lawyers, including two
partners, in Atlanta.  Byrnes said in a phone interview that the firm is about
half the size it was several years ago.  “The decision to merge was in response to how the
marketplace seems to be changing and how the needs of our
clients are changing,” Byrnes said in the interview. “We
really needed a broader and deeper substantive expertise
platform in litigation, M&A and IP, and we thought we needed a
better geographic footprint, across the country.”  Conroy said Cooley was late to the courtship of Dow Lohnes,
and was instantly certain that the merger was a good match.
Atlanta wasn’t a location of interest to Cooley and it wasn’t on
the table in any case, he said.  “They draw a circle around a core group -- the most
profitable, skill-set laden practices -- and put it up for
sale,” Conroy said. “We had to get in and sell ourselves at
once, and we did.”  Among the lawyers joining Cooley are John Feore, who leads
the Dow Lohnes regulatory team; Mike Goldstein, the founder and
co-chairman of its higher-education industry practice; and David Wittenstein, co-leader of the media and information technology
practice.  Cooley’s Washington office was founded in 2005 and has
about 80 lawyers. The firm also has almost 70 attorneys in
Reston, Virginia. All told, Cooley has more than 700 lawyers
across 11 offices in the U.S. and  China .  Firm News  Ashurst Elects Ben Tidswell New Global Chairman  Ben Tidswell was elected chairman of the newly integrated
law firm Ashurst LLP for a five-year term beginning Nov. 1.  Ashurst announced plans to merge with Australia’s Blake
Dawson in 2011 to form an 1,800-lawyer firm with 28 offices in
16 countries and combined revenue of more than 550 million
pounds ($882 million).  The firm’s financial integration, in which it will have a
single profit pool, with partners paid under a managed lock-step
system, and a unified management structure is scheduled to begin
the same date as Tidswell takes the helm.  “As board member of Ashurst LLP for the last six years,
and chair of the new partners committee prior to that, he has
made a significant contribution to the firm and its strategy,”
James Collis, global managing partner, said in a statement.  Tidswell joined Ashurst in 1993 and has been a partner in
the London-based dispute resolution team since 2000. He
specializes in complex commercial litigation, particularly
finance disputes. He also handles antitrust litigation and
telecommunications and media disputes.  “I look forward to working with James and his team, the
board and all of my colleagues around the world, to capitalize
on all the significant opportunities we have as a firm,” he
said.  Elections for the vice chairmanship will be open to
candidates from Ashurst  Australia  only, the firm said. The firm
will have elections for that position and the 14-member board
soon.  Brian Dunlop is the firm’s chief financial officer and
Robert Gillespie and David Turner are independent board members,
according to the firm.  Moves  King & Spalding Hires Former BNY Mellon Official Bromberg  Matthew J. Bromberg, former senior managing counsel and
managing director in the global fund services group at Bank of
New York Mellon Corp., joined King & Spalding LLP as a partner
in its financial institutions and capital transactions and real
estate practices in New York.  “He is a well-seasoned lawyer with extensive experience in
investment management law,” Robert F. Perry, managing partner
of King & Spalding’s New York office, said in a statement. “His
successful record at a number of key financial institutions will
be a significant benefit to our clients and extends our scope of
services in the financial services arena.”  Bromberg has more than 18 years of experience advising
clients on federal securities, commodities and banking laws. His
primary expertise is in representing registered investment
companies in general business, transactional, regulatory,
compliance and enforcement matters.  King & Spalding opened its New York office in 1990 and has
110 lawyers there. The firm has 800 lawyers in 17 offices in the
U.S., Europe, the Middle East and Asia.  Orrick Adds Antitrust-and-Competition Partner in Paris  Orrick Rambaud Martel announced that Michel Roseau joined
the firm’s antitrust and competition practice group as a partner
in Paris. Roseau was most recently a partner at Bird & Bird LLP.  Roseau previously spent almost a decade at  France ’s
Ministry of Finance and Ministry of European Affairs including
as head of the antitrust unit of the French Office of Fair
Trading, the firm said.  “He will work closely with our corporate team on merger
control issues and will help our clients address the increasing
risk of private damages litigation in Europe,” Robert Rosenfeld, the head of Orrick’s antitrust and competition
practice group, said in a statement.  Orrick has lawyers at 25 offices in North America, Europe
and Asia.  Deals  V&E,  Hogan Lovells  Advise on Oman Oil Deal for Advent’s Oxea  Vinson & Elkins LLP advised Oman Oil Co., which agreed to
buy Oxea from Advent International to expand beyond refining
into chemicals and ingredients for manufacturing and consumer
goods. Hogan Lovells LLP advised Advent.  The V&E team was led by mergers-and-acquisitions partner
Jeff Eldredge and energy transactions/projects partner Rob Patterson. The team was also assisted by partners Billy Vigdor,
antitrust; Sandy Weiner, real estate; and Mark Coker, finance.  Hogan Lovells’s lead partner on the deal was private-equity
lawyer Joachim W. Habetha. Additional partners on the deal
include Amit Nayyar, corporate/private equity; Alexander D. Cobey and Jens Uhlendorf, corporate/M&A; Philip Cheng, Imtiaz Shah and Jean-Michel Schmit, corporate; Michael Dettmeier, tax;
and Christoph Wuenschmann, Adrian Emch and Laura Philipp,
antitrust.  The state-owned oil producer will use the purchase of Oxea
as a springboard for tapping demand for oxo-based chemicals, the
companies said. Oxea, formed from units of  Celanese Corp. (CE)  and
the predecessor of  Evonik Industries AG (EVK) , generated about 1.5
billion euros ($2.03 billion) in sales in 2012. Oman Oil paid
almost 1.8 billion euros, according to three people familiar
with the matter who asked not to be named because the
negotiations were private.  The deal with Oman Oil “will provide additional access to
growth markets in Asia and the Middle East,” Martina Floel,
managing director of Oxea, said in the statement.  For more, click here.  Litigation  Chevron Says It’s Victim in Lawyer’s Ecuador Payout Scheme  For more than a decade, lawyers for Ecuadorean villagers
have argued  Chevron Corp. (CVS)  is responsible for polluting a swath
of Amazon rainforest bigger than Rhode Island that it refuses to
clean up.  Yesterday, facing a $19 billion judgment won on behalf of
those villagers, the second-largest U.S. oil company told a
 Manhattan  federal judge that it will prove that it’s a victim
rather than the villain in a legal drama over the environmental
devastation.  In a non-jury trial, Chevron is seeking to persuade U.S.
District Judge Lewis Kaplan to bar enforcement of the 2011
verdict against the company in  Ecuador  that it says was a
product of coercion and manufactured evidence.  Randy Mastro, a partner at Gibson Dunn & Crutcher LLP and a
lawyer for the company, told the judge yesterday the judgment
was obtained by fraud, coercion, extortion, money laundering and
the bribery of the Ecuadorean judge who wrote it.  Mastro pointed to the Ecuadoreans’ lead lawyer, Manhattan
attorney Steven Donziger, and said he headed a “racketeering
enterprise” that also included two other attorneys,
consultants, activists and others to “shake down” the oil
producer.  “That’s what Steven Donziger was trying to do against
Chevron, coerce a big payday against a big company until the
pain went away,” Mastro said. “But Chevron refused. It refused
to be extorted and defrauded and that’s why we’re here today.”  Kaplan said last week that there was “considerable
evidence” the litigation was “tainted by fraud.”  Mastro yesterday said San Ramon, California-based Chevron
is seeking a ruling barring Donziger and his associates from
trying to enforce the verdict in courts around the world where
Chevron has assets. Plaintiffs have sued Chevron for payment in
 Canada , Argentina and  Brazil  so far without success. Mastro said
Donziger could collect as much as $1.2 billion as his portion of
the judgment.  In the underlying 20-year-old environmental case, Donziger
and other lawyers for indigenous people in Ecuador’s Lago Agrio
region sought damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged dumping of toxic
drilling wastes from 1964 until about 1992 that polluted about
1,500 square miles (3,885 square kilometers). The lawsuit
continued against Chevron when it acquired Texaco in 2001.  Richard Friedman, a lawyer for Donziger, yesterday denied
his client had committed any bribery or wrongdoing and said he
had worked to hold Chevron accountable for polluting the rain
forest, comparing his client to U.S. civil rights leaders.  “Like Thurgood Marshall, like Ralph Nader, like a host of
human rights lawyers before him, Mr. Donziger understood you
need legal and social change,” Friedman told the judge.  Friedman argued Donziger had fought against the powerful
oil company and taken up the cause of the indigenous Ecuadoreans
who were mistreated and discriminated against in the country. He
argued that his client had successfully persuaded the Ecuadorean
courts to hold Chevron responsible for its actions in a foreign
country.  “It wasn’t pretty but it wasn’t bribery,” Friedman said.
“He’s changed the way people think. He’s here today because of
that judgment.”  The racketeering case is  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  v. Donziger, 11-cv-00691, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The appeals court case is In Re Naranjo, 13-00772,
U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  