-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Reach Five-Month Low on Plan to End Impasse
-- B y   C a l l i e   B o s t
-- 2013-10-16T21:06:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/credit-swaps-in-u-s-reach-five-month-low-on-plan-to-end-impasse.html
A gauge of U.S. company credit risk
fell to the lowest level in almost five months as the Senate
crafted a deal to end the government shutdown and raise the debt
ceiling.  The Markit CDX North American Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased
3.4 basis points to 73.7 basis points as of 4:55 p.m. in  New
York , according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
least since May 21 in data that adjusts for the effects of the
market’s shift to a new version of the index last month.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  reached an agreement to end the 16-day government
shutdown and extend U.S. borrowing authority, which runs out
tomorrow. The Senate and House plan to vote on the deal later
today, and  Jay Carney , the White House Press secretary, said
President  Barack Obama  supports the deal.  “Even if it’s a short-term solution, it gets you to the
next hurdle,” Matthew Duch, who helps oversee $12 billion as a
 money manager  at Bethesda, Maryland-based Calvert Investments
Inc., said in a telephone interview.  The index typically falls as investor confidence improves
and climbs as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Senate Agreement  The framework negotiated by Reid and McConnell would fund
the government through Jan. 15, 2014, and suspend the debt limit
until Feb. 7, setting up another round of confrontations. House
Speaker  John Boehner  said in a statement that Republicans won’t
block the Senate compromise.  House Republicans’ inability to come up with their plan to
raise the debt limit before U.S. borrowing authority lapses
tomorrow meant that the House would have to accept whatever
Senate leaders come up with, Representative  Kevin Brady  of
 Texas , a senior House Republican, said in a Bloomberg Television
interview earlier today.  “This party is not uniting behind our core issues,” Brady
said. “As a result, I think we are all frustrated with our
ability to impact this overall agreement.”  Wm. Wrigley Jr. Co., the manufacturer of Juicy Fruit and
Altoids acquired by Mars Inc., sold $3 billion of three-, four-,
five-, six- and seven-year senior notes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Default Rate  The speculative-grade default rate in the U.S. will be
“relatively stable” over the next year after ending the third
quarter at 2.6 percent, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The credit rater forecast a high-yield default rate at
year-end of 2.7 percent, declining to 2.6 percent by September
2014, according to a report today. The rates compare with a
cyclical peak of more than 14 percent in late 2009 and a 20-year
average of 4.5 percent.  The Markit CDX North American High Yield Index, a credit-swaps benchmark tied to speculative-grade bonds, fell 13.8 basis
points to 354.4 basis points, Bloomberg prices show.  The average extra yield investors demand to hold dollar-denominated, investment-grade corporate bonds rather than
similar-maturity Treasuries tightened 1.4 basis points to 129
basis points, Bloomberg data show.  Investment-grade debt is rated Baa3 or higher at Moody’s
and at least BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Callie Bost in New York at 
 cbost2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  