-- Croatia Pushes on With FX-Loan Plan as Banks Cry Foul
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2013-10-16T15:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/croatia-pushes-on-with-fx-loan-plan-as-banks-cry-foul.html
Croatia ’s government will push to
change the law on consumer lending, even after the central bank
said it will cost more than double earlier estimates and the
banking association called the move “unconstitutional.”  Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic ’s administration has
proposed a law to restrict variable interest rates on foreign-currency loans to help households who have seen monthly payments
on mostly Swiss franc-denominated loans jump after that currency
appreciated versus the kuna and other emerging European
currencies in the global economic crisis.  The central bank said on Oct. 14 the changes to the law may
hurt banks’ stability and cost them some 759 million kuna ($135
million) a year, or two-fifths of 2013 estimated profit.
Croatia’s Banking Association said the same day the proposed
amendments are “unconstitutional” and seek to “retroactively
intervene in existing contracts.” Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic said the government would push ahead.  “In the past years the banks here have made good
profits,” Grcic told public broadcaster Croatian radio today.
“They will continue to make profits even after this law is
implemented, while the government’s job is to protect the
citizens.”  Foreign Banks  The central bank’s estimate eclipses the 350 million kuna a
year price tag given by a finance ministry official on Sept. 19.
Foreign banks including  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ,  Intesa SanPaolo SpA (ISP) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  make
up almost 90 percent of the lending market.  Lawmakers in the capital Zagreb are expected to debate the
bill in coming weeks. There are an estimated 75,000 loans in
Swiss francs in Croatia, totaling 28 billion kuna, according to
Banka Magazine.  If the plan is approved, Croatia would follow neighboring
 Hungary  in forcing banks to share costs with borrowers who have
seen their monthly loan payments jump since the kuna lost more
than 25 percent against the Swiss currency in the global
economic crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  