-- Crude at $100 Right Level to Boost Output, Al-Shahristani Says
-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2013-10-16T07:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/crude-at-100-right-level-to-boost-output-al-shahristani-says.html
OPEC doesn’t need to cut output as
crude at about $100 a barrel will entice marginal producers to
pump more, adding supply and stabilizing markets, according to
Iraq’s Deputy Prime Minister.  “We’d rather see more countries supplying the world with
crude and $100 a barrel seems to be the right level,” Hussain Al-Shahristani said at the  World Energy Congress  in Daegu, South
Korea, today. “The world is satisfied with current OPEC
production and we don’t see any reason, really, to change the
production targets.”  The Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, which
pumps about 40 percent of the world’s crude, is scheduled to
meet in December to review output levels. Current prices are
“reasonable,” Algeria’s Energy Minister Youcef Yousfi said in
Daegu yesterday. Non-OPEC producers led by the U.S.,  Canada  and
Kazakhstan will boost supplies next year by the most since the
1970s, reducing the need for OPEC shipments, the International
Energy Agency reported on Oct. 11.  Iraq, which isn’t bound by an OPEC quota, was the group’s
second-largest producer after Saudi Arabia last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s exporting 2.5 million
barrels a day of crude and producing 3.3 million, according to
Al-Shahristani. Daily output will increase to 3.5 million
barrels by the end of the year, he said.  Majnoon, West Qurna-2  Iraq  plans to raise crude-export capacity at its southern
port of Basrah to 4 million barrels a day by the end of the
first quarter after completing a fourth floating terminal,
according to Al-Shahristani.  Crude output is set to rise as the Majnoon field reaches
175,000 barrels a day this month and 220,000 barrels before the
end of the year, he said. The start of production at the West
Qurna-2 field is delayed to the first quarter.  West Texas Intermediate, the U.S. benchmark crude, is
little changed after settling at a three-month low of $101.21 a
barrel yesterday. London-traded Brent crude is at about $110.  OPEC’s 12 members are  Algeria ,  Angola ,  Ecuador , Iran, Iraq,
 Kuwait , Libya, Nigeria, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab
Emirates and Venezuela.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  