-- Danone’s Growth Goals Set Back Six Months After Recalls in Asia
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2013-10-16T11:12:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/danone-posts-lowest-organic-sales-growth-since-2009-on-baby-milk.html
Danone (BN) , the world’s biggest yogurt
maker, said a product-safety scare in  Asia  has set the company
back by six months in its efforts to restore “strong
sustainable, profitable growth.”  Sales of baby-nutrition products slumped in the third
quarter after Danone recalled some products supplied by Fonterra
Cooperative Ltd. due to a warning of tainted ingredients. That
led to the slowest quarterly sales growth since 2009 and
prompted the company to cut its full-year forecasts today.  “The Fonterra story has impacted us by six months in terms
of delay in reaching what we wanted to do,” Chief Financial
Officer Pierre-Andre Terrisse said today on a conference call.  Danone fell as much as 5.2 percent in Paris trading, the
most in about a year, as the company followed Unilever and
 Nestle (NESN)  SA in reporting slowing revenue. Growth in many  emerging
markets  is weakening and the Activia maker has also been weighed
down by bribery claims at its Dumex baby-milk business in China,
where it has been fined for fixing prices of infant formula.  “While we expected that Danone would warn before February,
we didn’t expect it now,” Jeff Stent, an analyst at Exane BNP
Paribas, said in an e-mailed statement. “But I guess better to
get real sooner rather than later.”  Baby-nutrition sales, representing about 20 percent of
revenue, fell 8.6 percent on a like-for-like basis in the third
quarter, hurt by the recall of infant formula in eight markets
that subsequently proved to be a false alarm.  Danone is claiming at least 200 million euros ($272
million) in compensation from Fonterra, though the New Zealand
company has said it “strongly denies” any legal liability.  Brand Positioning  Baby-food sales in September were 40 percent of the July
level in the markets affected by the product recalls, Terisse
said on the call. Danone’s priorities are to diminish high
levels of inventory, reassure consumers and improve the
company’s brand positioning, he said. Inventory levels will
stabilize toward the end of the year, the CFO said.  Terisse said the recalls reduced sales growth by 3.2
percentage points in the third quarter and will have an impact
of about 3 percentage points in final three months of 2013. The
effect for the year will be about 1.5 percentage points.  Operational expenses of the recalls, margin reductions and
action to revive sales will cost about 280 million euros this
year, the executive estimated.  Danone’s total like-for-like sales gained 4.2 percent in
the quarter, missing the 4.8 percent median estimate of 15
analysts. The company lowered its forecast for organic sales
growth for the year to 4.5 percent to 5 percent, having
previously been predicting at least 5 percent.  Unilever, Nestle  The  stock  was down 3.9 percent at 50.99 euros at 12:33
p.m., while shares of rivals also fell.  Unilever, (UNA)  which this
month reported weaker quarterly sales growth, dropped 0.7
percent to 27.72 euros in Amsterdam. Nestle, which announces
third-quarter revenue tomorrow, eased 0.6 percent to 61.80 Swiss
francs in Zurich. The KitKat maker in August reported the
slowest first-half sales growth in four years.  Next year will be “very unbalanced” for Danone, Terisse
said. The company will have “a high comparison base in terms of
top line and in terms of margins” in the first half of 2014, he
said. Yet the CFO doesn’t expect margins to weaken next year.  Danone narrowed its forecast for 2013 operating margins
today. The company sees a drop of 80 basis points, compared with
a previous range of 30 basis points to 50 basis points down.  In July, Danone said it would reduce prices for its main
infant-formula products in  China  by as much as 20 percent after
local government started a price-fixing probe.  Bribery Claims  Danone has also had to deal with bribery claims at its
Dumex baby-milk business in China. The unit paid medical workers
in the northern city of Tianjin to promote its infant formula,
local government said on Oct. 14. An official investigation
found that health-care staff had accepted payments from the
French formula maker, prompting Dumex to take disciplinary
measures and strengthen governance in China.  Danone’s water division provided a bright spot for the
company in the third quarter, posting like-for-like growth of 17
percent amid the introduction of Bonafont aquadrinks for kids in
 Mexico  and new-flavored Akmina aquadrinks in  Turkey .  Like-for-like sales at the dairy unit rose 4.6 percent as
consumers ate more Oikos Greek yogurt in the U.S. and the market
started to recover in southern  Europe .  The dairy market is stabilizing in  France ,  Portugal ,  Spain 
and the U.K., Terisse said. The company doesn’t plan price
increases in the western European dairy business, the CFO said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  