-- Deadly Cancers Driven by Relatively Few Mutations, Study Finds
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h
-- 2013-10-16T18:54:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/deadly-cancers-driven-by-relatively-few-mutations-study-finds.html
Most common tumors are driven by
just two to six DNA mutations, according to a genetic analysis
of 3000 tumor samples that brings scientists closer to devising
a comprehensive list of all the key mutations that cause cancer
or contribute to its progression.  In the  study , researchers from  Washington University  in  St.
Louis  analyzed 3,281 tumors from 12 cancer types, including
 breast cancer ,  lung cancer  and  colon cancer . They found 127
mutated genes in those tumors that appeared to be involved in
either in cancer initiation or progression. The results indicate
that a relatively small number of genetic changes fuel tumor
growth, said  Li Ding , senior author on the study.  “This is a really small number. This suggests that only a
few driver mutations are required for developing tumors,” said
Ding, assistant director of the  genome institute  at the
university, in a phone interview. In the long run, cataloging
cancer’s genetic changes “will help develop personalized
treatment strategies for each patient.”  The new work, published in the journal Nature, is part of
the  Cancer Genome Atlas  project, a U.S. National Institutes of
Health-funded effort to discover what changes make a normal cell
cancerous and pinpoint more effective treatments. After
performing several studies examining mutated genes found in
specific tumor types, researchers in the project are now
scanning multiple cancer types simultaneously to find patterns
of genetic abnormalities common to different tumors. The
ultimate goal is to treat patients with therapies tailored to
the specific mutations involved in each individual’s cancer.  Moving Closer  The new study moves researchers closer towards devising a
comprehensive list of the key genes involved in cancer, said
Ding in a phone interview. Her study, though, is not the final
word on this subject, because it only looked at certain types of
common mutations and didn’t examine other genetic changes where
 large chunks  of DNA are rearranged abnormally.  Still, given the rapid rate at which researchers are
generating cancer genome data, “we have a reasonable chance of
identifying most of the core cancer genes” in the next three to
five years, Ding said.  One promising result of Ding’s study is that it identified
several mutated genes that are bad prognostic factors across a
number of cancers, said  Thomas Hudson , a genome scientist at the
Ontario Institute for  Cancer Research , in a phone interview. If
confirmed, the findings could help doctors develop new
prognostic tests that indicate which patients need the most
aggressive treatment, he said.  “Having markers of bad prognosis is really critical” as
it may help doctors decide which patients may benefit from drug
treatment after surgery to prevent cancer from recurring, said
Hudson.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  