-- Delta of Zimbabwe Sales Rise as Sorghum-Beer Gains Offset Lager
-- B y   B r i a n   L a t h a m
-- 2013-10-16T09:21:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/delta-of-zimbabwe-sales-rise-as-sorghum-beer-gains-offset-lager.html
Delta Corp., the Zimbabwean brewer
that’s the nation’s biggest company by market value, said first-half revenue climbed 5 percent as an increase in sales of
sorghum-based beer offset a decline in lager volumes.  Revenue from sorghum brews, which comprised 60 percent of
sales in Delta’s beer category in the year ended March, rose 9
percent in the six months ended Sept. 30 from a year earlier,
the Harare-based company said in a statement on its  website 
today. Lager sales fell 10 percent, it said.  “Consumer demand has remained generally soft, a trend that
has been evident since the beginning of the calendar year,”
Delta said.  Lager-beer sales in  Zimbabwe  have been curbed after an
excise duty increase in December 2012 and a lack of small
coinage in a multi-currency economy. Delta is an affiliate of
 SABMiller Plc (SAB) , the world’s second-largest brewer, which holds a
stake of 25 percent, according to the London-based company’s
annual report for the year through March.  Sales of sparkling beverages climbed 8 percent in the first
half, Delta said. The company didn’t provide figures in its
trading update. Delta will publish the results on Nov. 14.  Zimbabwe emerged from almost a decade of recession when the
government in 2009 permitted the use of the  U.S. dollar  and
other currencies including the South African rand, after the
local currency’s devaluation drove inflation to what the
 International Monetary Fund  estimated was 500 billion percent.
The nation’s economy will probably expand 5 percent in 2013 and
5.7 percent in 2014, according to the IMF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Latham in Harare at 
 blatham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  