-- Deutsche Bank Mortgage Trader Dixon Said to Leave to Start Fund
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2013-10-16T15:34:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/deutsche-bank-mortgage-trader-dixon-said-to-leave-to-start-fund.html
Troy Dixon, a managing director who
trades mortgage bonds at  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , is leaving after
almost eight years and plans to start a hedge fund, according to
two people with knowledge of the move.  He left the Frankfurt-based bank this week, said the
people, who asked not to be named because the information isn’t
public. Christopher Babu, who joined the lender in 2005, will
replace him as head of trading for government-backed residential
mortgage securities, one of the people said. Dixon and  Renee Calabro , a spokeswoman, said they couldn’t comment.  Dixon, 42, joins former Deutsche Bank tradersGreg Lippmann, now at LibreMax Capital LLC, andBoaz Weinstein, of
Saba Capital Management LP, in leaving the bank to start  hedge
funds . Premium Point Investments LP’s Anilesh Ahuja and Seer
Capital Management LP’s Philip Weingord are other former
colleagues who have started hedge fund firms since 2008 after
departing the company.  Dixon’s focus is U.S. government-backed, or agency, home-loan securities, which have been roiled this year by concern
that the  Federal Reserve  would slow its bond buying. Deutsche
Bank is the top underwriter of collateralized mortgage
obligations, which are mainly created by slicing up those notes
into new securities, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Under Dixon, the bank was the largest trader of mortgage
bonds with the Fed during the first round of the central bank’s
debt buying known as quantitative easing, in which it purchased
$1.25 trillion of the securities in 2009 and 2010, according to
data released by the Fed.  He joined Deutsche Bank in 2006 from UBS AG to head pass-through mortgage trading. He had earlier held the same role at
UBS, Credit Suisse Group AG and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette. In
2011, Black Enterprise magazine  named  him among the 75 most
powerful blacks on  Wall Street , saying he then managed a
“multibillion-dollar balance sheet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in  New York  at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  