-- Tigers Even AL Series With Red Sox as Dodgers Stay Alive in NLCS
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2013-10-17T04:44:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/dodgers-stay-alive-in-nl-championship-series-against-cardinals.html
The Detroit Tigers and Los Angeles
Dodgers broke out of hitting slumps to tighten Major League
Baseball’s two league championship series.  The Tigers ended a 13-inning scoreless drought with a five-run second inning and went on to a 7-3 win last night against
the visiting  Boston  Red Sox that tied their American League
best-of-seven playoff series at two games apiece.  The Dodgers, who had no home runs in the first four games
of their series, hit four solo homers yesterday to stay alive
with a 6-4 home win against the St. Louis Cardinals, who still
lead three games to two in the National League.  Game 6 of the NLCS is set for tomorrow night at St. Louis,
which remains one win away from reaching the World Series. If
the Dodgers win Game 6, a decisive seventh game would be the
following day in St. Louis.  “We’ve kind of become America’s team because everyone
wants to see a seventh game,” Dodgers manager Don Mattingly
said in a news conference. “Probably even the fans in St. Louis
would like to see a seventh game, so I figure that everybody’s
for us to win on Friday night.”  The Dodgers took a 2-0 lead in the second inning on run-scoring singles by Juan Uribe and starting pitcher Zack Greinke.
The Cardinals immediately tied it up in the third on Carlos Beltran’s triple and a double by Matt Holliday.  Los Angeles regained the lead on Adrian Gonzalez’s home run
in the bottom of the third inning. Carl Crawford hit another
homer in the fifth to increase the Los Angeles lead to 4-2, and
A.J. Ellis added a homer in the seventh. Gonzalez homered again
in the eighth to make it 6-2.  Found Stroke  “It just goes to show how baseball is,” Crawford told
reporters. “One day you can be on and one day you can be off.
The pitching has been dominating this series, and nobody’s been
hitting home runs. Today we just seemed to find the stroke for
the home run.”  Matt Adams and Pete Kozma had run-scoring singles in the
ninth for the Cardinals.  In  Detroit , Torii Hunter had a two-run double and Miguel Cabrera added an run-scoring single as the Tigers scored five
runs in the second inning to end a 13-inning scoreless streak
that stretched back to Game 2 on Oct. 13.  The Tigers made it 7-0 in the fourth on run-scoring singles
by Austin Jackson and Cabrera.  “Against this team you can’t make too many mistakes,”
Boston’s Jarrod Saltalamacchia told reporters. “We made some
tonight, we put ourselves in a hole and couldn’t get out.”  Boston scored a run in the sixth on a single by
Saltalamacchia and added another in the seventh on Shane Victorino’s run-scoring double. The Red Sox got their third run
in the ninth on Jacoby Ellsbury’s triple.  Game 5 in the best-of-seven series is set for tonight at
Comerica Park in Detroit. The series then returns to Boston’s
Fenway Park for Game 6 on Oct. 19, with a seventh game the
following night if necessary.  “Hey, the series is tied,” Tigers manager Jim Leyland
told reporters. “The only thing we know for sure is we’re going
back to Boston.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Gloster in San Francisco at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier at Comerica Park in Detroit at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  