-- Dollar Retreats From 3-Week High Versus Yen
-- B y   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2013-10-17T06:23:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/dollar-holds-losses-versus-high-yielders-on-debt-deal-votes.html
The dollar retreated from a three-week high versus the yen after encountering so-called technical
resistance and as the short-term debt deal passed by U.S.
Congress failed to end political uncertainty.  The yen rose versus its major peers as President  Barack
Obama  signed into law a measure ending a U.S. government
shutdown and extending its borrowing authority until early 2014.
The greenback remained lower against higher-yielding currencies
such as New Zealand’s with markets gauging the impact of the
recent impasse on prospects for growth and Federal Reserve
stimulus. Policy makers including Fed Bank of New York President
William Dudley speak today.  “People were primed for a move from Congress today to lift
the debt ceiling,” said Desmond Chua, a Singapore-based market
analyst at CMC Markets. “Looking forward, it leaves us a short
time before another possible debacle. The 99 round handle for
dollar-yen is a tough one to overcome, looking at how it’s been
facing that resistance since the end of September.”  The dollar lost 0.3 percent to 98.49 yen as of 7:18 a.m. in
 London  after touching 99.01, the most since Sept. 27. It fell
0.2 percent to $1.3557 per euro. Europe’s common currency
slipped 0.1 percent to 133.54 yen after earlier reaching 133.84,
the strongest level since Sept. 26.  The dollar will face resistance in the 98.65 to 99.15 yen
area, Niall O’Connor, a New York-based technical analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., wrote in a note dated yesterday.  “This area should be a tough hurdle for the short-term
setup,” he wrote. “Still, corrective retracements look like
buying opportunities.”  Deal Framework  The Senate voted 81-18 to halt the 16-day shutdown and
raise the borrowing limit. The House of Representatives voted
285-144 to clear the measure. The framework negotiated by Senate
Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Democrat, and Minority Leader
Mitch McConnell, a Republican, would fund the government through
Jan. 15, 2014, and suspend the debt limit until Feb. 7.  Uncertainty resulting from continued political disruption
has a “silver lining,” because it means a slower pace of
stimulus tapering by the Fed, according to Russ Koesterich, the
chief investment strategist for BlackRock Inc.  Weakened  consumer confidence  may cause “more of a drag”
on fourth-quarter growth than expected, he said in a Bloomberg
Television interview.  The dollar has dropped 0.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-country currencies. The euro gained 0.9 percent,
while the yen is little changed.  Philadelphia Index  The Fed Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic index
probably fell to 15 in October from 22.3 the previous month, a
report today is forecast to show, according to the median in a
Bloomberg News survey. Readings greater than zero signal growth.
The Empire State index for the New York region sank to 1.5 this
month, a five-month low, an Oct. 15 report showed.  “The Philadelphia Fed is likely to echo the weakness in
the Empire survey earlier this week, which was presumably driven
in part by concerns about the government shutdown,” BNP Paribas
SA currency strategists Vassili Serebriakov and  Daniel Katzive 
in New York wrote in a note to clients.  Reports delayed by the shutdown, including the September
payrolls data, will begin to be released in coming days and
markets may start to rebuild positions betting on dollar gains
versus the yen, pound and euro, the BNP strategists wrote.  The Bloomberg U.S. Dollar Index, which tracks the U.S.
currency against 10 other major currencies, fell 0.2 percent to
1,009.62, weakening for a second day. The Australian dollar has
been the biggest gainer versus the greenback in October, rising
2.4 percent, followed by the Mexican peso’s 2.1 percent advance
and the South African rand’s 1.7 percent climb.  Carry Trade  “In the short term, the clearest trend would be carry does
a little bit better in the currency space,” Richard Yetsenga,
the head of global markets research in Sydney at  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. (ANZ) , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview. “Certainly that seems to be the easiest way to
explain recent price action.”  In carry trades investors borrow cheaply in countries with
low interest rates, and use the proceeds to buy currencies of
economies with higher-yielding assets. Fed tapering is likely to
happen no sooner than February, Yetsenga said.  Demand for the Aussie was also supported before a report
tomorrow forecast to show  China ’s  economy  grew 7.8 percent in
the third quarter from a year earlier, from a 7.5 percent pace
in the previous three months, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg survey. China is  Australia ’s largest trading
partner.  New Zealand’s currency was little changed at 84.26 U.S.
cents following a 0.5 percent advance yesterday. The Aussie
dollar rose as high as 95.69 U.S. cents, the most since June 18,
before trading at 95.41 cents, down 0.1 percent from yesterday.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  