-- E-Cigarette Marketing Seen Threatened by FDA Scrutiny
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2013-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/e-cigarette-marketing-seen-threatened-by-fda-scrutiny.html
The $1.5 billion U.S. electronic-cigarette industry has tripled sales this year with the help of
TV ads, Nascar sponsorships and product giveaways.  Government
regulation  may now threaten those marketing tactics.  The  Food and Drug Administration  is set to decide this
month whether to lump e-cigarettes in with conventional smokes
as part of its oversight of the $90 billion U.S. tobacco market.
Such a step would set the stage for greater restrictions on
production, advertising, flavorings and online sales.  With at least 40 U.S. states seeking stricter rules and
federal health officials raising the alarm about e-cigarette use
by children, manufacturers of the smokeless devices are
preparing for a FDA crackdown.  “We do anticipate becoming a regulated industry, so it is
very possible the way in which we advertise will change,” said
Andries Verleur, co-founder of e-cigarette maker VMR Products.  E-cigarettes heat liquid nicotine into an inhaled vapor
without the tar of normal cigarettes. For the moment, marketers
operate with few, if any, of the regulatory limits that apply to
 tobacco companies  such as  Philip Morris USA  and  Reynolds
American Inc. (RAI)  TV advertisements by tobacco companies were banned
in 1971, and in 2010 the FDA eliminated cigarette sampling.
Sporting leagues such as Nascar also have severed ties.  With the FDA seeking to expand its regulatory authority
beyond conventional cigarettes and smokeless tobacco, some e-cigarette companies are opening up the marketing spigot while
they still have a chance.  Nightclub Push  Victory Electronic Cigarettes Corp. (ECIG) , run by the same
marketing executive who helped build InBev NV into a dominant
brewer, is handing out 1 million e-cigarettes starting this
month at events in 50 U.S. cities. There will be a traveling van
and tents at Nascar races, said Chief Executive Officer Brent Willis, who was once the president of InBev’s Asia-Pacific
operations and helped introduce the Kraft brand to  China .  Logic Technology Inc., which makes up 17 percent of
industry sales, plans a push in Manhattan bars and nightclubs
this year or early 2014.  “You go where adult smokers are,” said Miguel Martin,
president of Livingston, New Jersey-based Logic, in an
interview.  The industry says e-cigarettes are a healthier, cleaner
alternative to traditional smoking. Many disagree. At least 40
U.S. state attorneys general on Sept. 24 urged the FDA to
immediately regulate the sale and advertising of electronic
cigarettes in a  letter  that said the products are appealing to
youth and no one is “ensuring the safety of the ingredients.”  Child Addicts  That followed a Sept. 5 report in which the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention raised an alarm about children
getting hooked on nicotine. The CDC found the share of U.S.
students in middle school and high school who used e-cigarettes
doubled to 10 percent in 2012 from 4.7 percent a year earlier.  By comparison, adolescents who reported smoking regular
cigarettes daily or more casually, declined to 8.3 percent in
2010, from 11.9 percent in 2004, the Substance Abuse and Mental
Health Services Administration said earlier this year.  Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois  and 11 other Democrats,
seized on the report to call for immediate FDA regulation and to
demand that e-cigarette companies provide documents related to
sales, labeling and marketing of their products to children.  “Despite claims from some e-cigarette makers that they do
not market their products to youth and that kids should not have
access to their products, e-cigarette manufacturers appear to be
applying marketing tactics similar to those used by the tobacco
industry to hook a new generation of children,” the senators
wrote in a Sept. 26 letter to e-cigarette companies.  FDA Agenda  The FDA has oversight over the cigarette market under a
 2009 law  that gives it sway over manufacturing, marketing and
other tobacco industry practices. The law permits the FDA to
determine whether it will extend its reach to related products.  In a government catalog of upcoming federal regulatory
actions, called the Unified Agenda, the FDA lists October 2013
as the deadline for issuing a notice for proposing such rules.  The FDA has sent a proposal to the White House Office of
Management and Budget, seeking to expand its regulatory
authority beyond cigarettes, Steven Immergut, a spokesman for
the agency said in an e-mail yesterday. “Their review will
begin when the government shutdown ends,” he said.  Industry Standard  Matthew Myers , president of the Campaign for Tobacco-Free
Kids, said everyone is watching to see precisely what the FDA
has proposed.  “Sometimes OMB takes weeks and sometimes OMB sits on
things for a very long time,” he said in an interview. “I
don’t think this is something the OMB plans to sit on.”  E-cigarette companies are on board with manufacturing
standards and age restrictions while saying advertising limits
shouldn’t be on the table. VMR’s Verleur said his company, which
makes the V2 Cigs brand, and his competitors have asked the FDA
for meetings to give their side of the argument.  “One thing that would be very bad is to lump us in with
traditional cigarettes and apply some of the same standards,”
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  