-- The EPA and the Supreme Court Fight Climate Change
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-16T17:11:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/the-epa-and-the-supreme-court-fight-climate-change.html
Even as  it decided  yesterday to
critically examine one of the weapons that the Environmental
Protection Agency uses in its fight against  climate change , the
U.S. Supreme Court stood firmly behind the Obama
administration’s basic plan: using the EPA to regulate
 greenhouse gases  as harmful pollutants.  That’s because the court refused to consider a broader
challenge to the EPA’s fundamental authority in this area. No
matter how the court rules on the question it has taken up, it
will not threaten President  Barack Obama ’s strategy of placing
broad limits on carbon pollution from new and existing power
plants.  Given that these plants, many of which are coal-burners,
produce 40 percent of the U.S.’s carbon dioxide emissions and a
third of its greenhouse gases, this is good news. The EPA is on
a schedule to finish that task well before Obama leaves office.  The question the Supreme Court will address is a relevant
one, to be sure. It applies to a second  strategy  for regulating
pollution -- not through national industrywide standards, but
through case-by-case reviews of power plants, refineries,
factories and other “stationary” sources of greenhouse gases.
The court will address whether high levels of  carbon emissions 
should automatically trigger such reviews, based on the EPA’s
determination that greenhouse gases threaten human health and
welfare.  The EPA has said high levels should prompt a review. But
the  American Chemistry Council , an industry trade association,
and others, including a federal circuit court judge, have argued
that they shouldn’t. If the court agrees they shouldn’t, the EPA
may still be able to use the permitting process to regulate
greenhouse-gas emissions whenever a review of a given plant or
factory is triggered because the level of another pollutant is
over the limit.  This would enable regulators to press some large industrial
emitters, when they expand or rebuild, to use new technology to
limit greenhouse gases even beyond any industrywide standards.  The worst outcome would be a broader ruling that would stop
the EPA from using the permitting process to regulate greenhouse
gases at all. Even if that happens, however, the EPA’s current
project of coming up with national standards means that
factories and power plants will not be allowed to simply emit
unlimited amounts of greenhouse gases.  By restricting its review to this permitting question, the
 Supreme Court  has affirmed the EPA’s judgment that greenhouse
gases are a threat to humanity, and therefore within the
agency’s power to regulate. The agency has  already proposed 
carbon limits for new power plants and is scheduled to offer a
plan for existing plants by next summer. It should now move
forward at full speed to put them in place.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 