-- EBay Holiday Quarter Forecast Trails Analysts’ Estimates
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2013-10-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/ebay-sales-forecast-trails-analyst-estimates-for-holiday.html
EBay Inc. (EBAY)  issued sales and profit
forecasts that fell short of analysts’ estimates ahead of the
key  holiday shopping season , citing “dramatically decelerating
U.S. e-commerce growth.”  Fourth-quarter sales will be $4.5 billion to $4.6 billion,
the operator of the largest online marketplace said in a
statement yesterday. Analysts on average were projecting revenue
of $4.64 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. EBay
forecast profit excluding some items of 79 cents to 81 cents a
share for the period, below analysts’ prediction of 83 cents.  The outlook raises red flags about what is typically EBay’s
biggest quarter, when consumers gravitate online to shop for the
holidays. U.S. online retail spending growth has slowed,
climbing 13 percent in July and August from a year prior,
compared with 16 percent in the second quarter, according to
 ComScore Inc. (SCOR)   “The thing that’s causing us the most angst is what we
believe is a dramatically decelerating U.S. e-commerce growth
rate from the second quarter,” EBay Chief Financial Officer Bob Swan said on a conference call after results. “In a relatively
short period of time, we’ve seen a pretty rapid deceleration in
the market.”  Shares Drop  The outlook sent shares of EBay tumbling as much as 5.4
percent in extended trading. The stock fell less than 1 percent
to $53.52 at the close in  New York . The  San Jose , California-based company has gained 5 percent so far this year, compared
with a 21 percent rise in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  The deceleration in sales may stall a turnaround of the
Internet marketplace led by Chief Executive Officer  John Donahoe , who has shifted the company from auctions to payments
and fixed-price goods.  “We are not expecting any improvement in the fourth
quarter from what we experienced over the last eight to 10
weeks,” Swan said of the U.S. e-commerce market. “We have a
cautious outlook for the holiday season.”  The company reiterated that it’s predicting 2013 revenue
and profit to be at the lower end of full-year guidance as it
increases spending on its enterprise business and a PayPal free-shipping promotion.  Holiday Promotions  “Sentiment was already mixed going into the report, but I
think the commentary around a deteriorating U.S. environment is
apt to make investors more nervous,” said  Colin Sebastian , an
analyst at Robert W. Baird & Co. in San Francisco.  EBay usually rolls out a round of promotions for the
holiday shopping season, working with retailers like  Macy’s Inc. (M) 
to arm store associates with tablets and create kiosks to help
consumers navigate stores more quickly and efficiently. EBay
faces tough competition from Seattle-based  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the
world’s largest e-commerce company. Amazon garnered 40 percent
of its second-quarter revenue from third-party sellers, its own
marketplace that competes directly with EBay.  For the third quarter, revenue rose 14 percent to $3.89
billion from $3.4 billion a year earlier. Net income increased
15 percent to $689 million from $597 million a year earlier.  Revenue in EBay’s marketplaces business, which includes
auctions and fixed-price sales, climbed 12 percent to $2.03
billion in the latest quarter.  Mobile Focus  EBay has shifted focus to mobile, redesigning its mobile
site and digital wallet. More than 35 percent of new users in
the third quarter came from smartphones or tablets.  The company also expanded partnerships with physical
retailers to offer one-hour delivery -- which will also be
available in  London  in 2014 -- and added the ability to order
and pay at restaurants through a mobile device.  At online-payments unit PayPal, revenue rose 19 percent to
$1.62 billion in the third quarter. PayPal’s take rate, or the
commission it takes from each transaction, fell to 3.7 percent
in the third quarter from 3.9 percent in the same period last
year.  Last month, EBay agreed to buy Braintree, a mobile-payments
company that helps startups like room-rental service Airbnb and
cab-calling application Uber, for $800 million in cash.
Braintree projects payments volume of $12 billion this year,
adding to $20 billion PayPal expects to process over the same
period.  The deal is EBay’s biggest since March 2011, when it
acquired GSI Commerce Inc. for $2.4 billion, a company that
hosts retailers’ websites and offers marketing services to
customers.  The digital-payments provider also introduced technology in
September that lets consumers enter a store and pay without
touching a credit card or smartphone. Retailers can plug a new
device, called Beacon, into a power outlet and detect phones
that have the PayPal application, sending a notification to the
cashier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  