-- EE Introduces 4G Offer in U.K. to Undercut Vodafone’s Pricing
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-16T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/ee-introduces-4g-offer-in-u-k-to-undercut-vodafone-s-pricing.html
EE, the biggest U.K. mobile company,
will offer a cheaper plan on its faster, fourth-generation
network as it works to challenge  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and
 Telefonica SA (TEF) ’s O2, which began offering 4G services this year.  EE, which is co-owned by  Orange SA (ORA)  and  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ,
will sell a 500-megabyte monthly data plan for as little as
18.99 pounds ($30.43) a month starting on Oct. 30, the company
said in a statement today. Customers will pay for a handset
separately.  The cheapest 4G plan at O2 is 22 pounds a month and
Vodafone’s is 26 pounds, both of which offer at least double the
data allowance of the new EE offer. The companies differ on
contract terms and handset prices. EE is betting that a wider
variety of price points and data packages will help win over new
customers as rivals begin building out competing networks.  “We are launching new plans for light users, super users,
regular users, data sharers and Britain’s mobile workforce up
and down the country,” Chief Executive Officer Olaf Swantee
said in the statement. “We want to bring the power of 4GEE to
even more people.”  A Nokia Lumia 625 on EE’s 18.99-pound monthly plan would
cost 99.99 pounds, the company said. Vodafone gives customers
the same phone free on a two-year contract when they sign up for
a 38-pound-per-month deal and 2 gigabytes of data, according to
the company’s website. At O2, the same phone would cost 240
pounds with a two-year contract, either paid monthly or upfront
on top of its 22-pound 4G  plan  which includes 1 GB of data.  Data Allowances  EE has also expanded its double-speed 4G “Extra” service,
first rolled out last month, to include data allowances of as
much as 50 GB for 74.99 pounds a month, the company said.
Customers can share their plans with as many as four others.
Vodafone and O2’s consumer plans go up to 8 GB a month.  After giving EE more than a nine-month head start while
they waited for spectrum that carries the high-speed signals to
be auctioned, Vodafone and O2 began selling service in  London  in
August. Newbury, England-based Vodafone plans to add several
large cities in the north of  England , including Liverpool and
Manchester, by the end of the month, and will cover 98 percent
of the population by 2015.  Three, owned by  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd (13) , will begin offering
4G service at no extra cost in December, covering 1.5 million
customers by January, the company said in August.  The new networks, which offer data speeds five times faster
than third-generation technology, may help struggling European
carriers increase customers’ monthly bills as they charge more
for better service. EE has said customers who move up to 4G from
other plans pay about 10 percent more for their service.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  