-- Emerging Stocks Rise on U.S. Deal as Brazil Leads Gains
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e ,   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   I a n   S a y s o n
-- 2013-10-16T20:51:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/emerging-stocks-drop-from-4-month-high-as-chinese-shares-slide.html
Emerging-market stocks rose to a
five-month high, led by Brazilian shares, after the  U.S. Senate 
crafted an agreement to end the government shutdown and raise
the debt ceiling. Mexico’s peso jumped the most in a month.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index advanced 0.1 percent to
1,031.27, the highest level since May 22.  Brazil ’s  Ibovespa (IBOV) 
climbed for a sixth day as OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
 Eike Batista ’s oil company, soared 38 percent. The Shanghai
Composite Index retreated 1.8 percent after  China ’s shares were
cut at JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Mexican peso led gains among 15
out of the 24 developing-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Stocks joined a global rally as the  U.S. Congress  is poised
to end the 16-day government shutdown and raise the  debt limit
after the bipartisan leaders of the U.S. Senate reached an
agreement to end the nation’s fiscal impasse. The Senate and
House plan to vote on the deal later today, and the White House
press secretary said President  Barack Obama  supports the deal.  “It’s the confirmation of what the market had been
anticipating,” Walter “Bucky” Hellwig, who helps manage $17
billion of assets at BB&T Wealth Management in Birmingham,
 Alabama , said in a telephone interview. “They kicked the can
down the road a few months.”  Seven out of  10 groups  in the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
gained today, led by telephone and consumer discretionary
companies. The benchmark gauge for developing nations has
dropped 2.3 percent this year to trade at 10.7 times projected
earnings, compared with the  valuation  of 14 for the MSCI World
Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Options Prices  The iShares MSCI Emerging Markets Index exchange-traded
fund advanced 0.8 percent to $42.99. The Chicago Board Options
Exchange Emerging Markets ETF Volatility Index, a measure of
options prices on the fund and expectations of price swings,
declined 9.2 percent to 23.25.  Brazil’s Ibovespa rose 1.8 percent to the highest level
since May 28. OGX surged amid speculation it will get a capital
injection from investors as it negotiates with lenders to
restructure debt. The  Mexican peso  added 1.2 percent, the most
since Sept. 18, rising for a second day.  Most Russian stocks gained after a court suspended
opposition leader Alexey Navalny’s five-year prison sentence,
boosting appetite for Russian equities. OAO Gazprom, the
nation’s biggest company and natural gas exporter, rose to the
highest level in a year.  Mol Tumbles  The Budapest Stock Exchange Index slid the most since Aug.
27. Mol Nyrt. dropped to the lowest level in two years after
Napi Gazdasag reported Norway’s sovereign wealth fund may review
investments in the Hungarian oil refiner embroiled in a
corruption probe in  Croatia .  China’s stocks  fell the most in three weeks as companies
linked to Shanghai’s free-trade zone sank on concern valuations
are excessive.  Shanghai International Port (Group) Co. (600018)  and
Shanghai Waigaoqiao Free Trade Zone Development Co.  plunged  more
than 8 percent after more than doubling since Aug. 22.  The premium investors demand to own emerging-market debt
over U.S. Treasuries rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 319 basis points, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net ;
Zahra Hankir in London at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Sayson in Manila at 
 isayson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  