-- Mercedes-Benz Plans to Increase South Africa Production
-- B y   K a m l e s h   B h u c k o r y
-- 2013-10-16T14:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/mercedes-benz-plans-to-increase-south-africa-production.html
 Mercedes-Benz, the carmaker owned
by  Germany ’s  Daimler AG (DAI) , said it would push ahead with a 3
billion rand ($302 million) investment plan in South  Africa  that
will see it increase local output to 100,000 units a year.  The outlook for growth in Africa’s biggest economy is
“very positive,” the truck and luxury carmaker’s South Africa
Chief Executive Officer Martin Zimmermann said in an interview
at the Johannesburg Motor Show today. The company will introduce
new technology and a third shift to its local plant, which
produces about 60,000 units a year at present, he said.  Mercedes’s commitment to South Africa comes less than two
weeks after  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s largest
maker of luxury vehicles, said it would stop expansion in South
Africa after labor strikes that shut down plants in August and
September cost it 13,000 cars in lost production. BMW’s revised
plans are a “worrying sign”, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
said on Oct. 7.  Lost production from the strike would be recovered by
Mercedes in six to seven weeks, Zimmermann said. “We have quite
a significant order book,” he said.  South African vehicle sales will probably stagnate in 2014
as slower economic growth and the weak rand stifle consumer
spending, according to the National Association of Automobile
Manufacturers of South Africa.  “The economic indicators are just against us at the
moment,” Naamsa Chairman Johan van Zyl said in an interview at
the Motor Show. Vehicle sales would show “zero growth” next
year after an estimated 5 percent advance to 650,000 units in
2013, he said.  Labor Unrest  The rand has weakened 15 percent against the dollar this
year, the worst performer of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. South Africa’s central bank has downgraded its
forecast for gross domestic product growth to 2 percent, which
would be the slowest pace since a 2009 recession.  South African vehicle sales fell for a second month in
September and exports dropped 75 percent as strikes hit
carmakers’ operations. Workers at seven manufacturers operating
in South Africa, including BMW and Ford Motor Co., went on
strike, resulting in an estimated 20 billion rand ($2 billion)
loss to the companies.  Labor unrest cut about 0.5 percent from 2013 vehicle sales,
according to Van Zyl, who is also South Africa Chief Executive
Officer of  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , the country’s biggest
manufacturer. The three-year wage deals agreed by employers with
the unions to stop the strike were welcome as they brought
stability to the industry, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kamlesh Bhuckory in Johannesburg at 
 kbhuckory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  