-- Merkel Backs EU Carbon Fix in First Post-Election Speech
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-10-16T13:44:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/merkel-backs-eu-carbon-fix-in-first-post-election-speech.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  came
out in favor of a European Union proposal to bolster the
region’s carbon market, triggering the biggest jump in emission
prices in more than three months.  Merkel’s comments are her most explicit backing yet for
moves to address an oversupply in the 53 billion-euro ($72
billion) cap-and-trade program, an emergency fix known as
backloading.  “We need a certain degree of backloading of CO2 emissions
so certificate prices return to a sensible level,” Merkel said
in a speech today to a labor group in Hanover. “That’s OK,
because the economic growth rates on which the pool of CO2
certificates is based haven’t happened in the last few years.”  The support of the re-elected leader of  Europe ’s biggest
economy may help break a deadlock in EU talks on the emergency
fix that has been exacerbated by the failure of Merkel’s second-term government to take a position on backloading. The EU
proposal pitted Environment Minister  Peter Altmaier , a member of
Merkel’s  Christian Democrats  who backed it, against Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler, who was against. Roesler’s Free
 Democratic Party  crashed out of the parliament in the Sept. 22
elections and won’t be part of her next coalition.  EU emission allowances for December jumped as much as 10.9
percent to 5.50 euros a metric ton after her comments and traded
6.1 percent up at 5.26 euros on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
as of 2:20 p.m. in  London .  “When certificate prices are higher, the sequence of power
plants that are competitive will shift again,” allowing gas
generation to compete with coal-fired plants, Merkel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at   lpaulsson@bloomberg.net ;
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  