-- Merkel Backs Coalition With German SPD as Hard Bargaining Looms
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-10-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/merkel-backs-coalition-with-german-spd-as-hard-bargaining-looms.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  urged
 Germany ’s opposition Social Democrats to get serious about
signing on as the junior partner in her third-term government,
saying the time to dwell on policy differences is over.  “I found it pointless” in previous talks with the SPD and
the Greens party “to list all the issues that divide us,”
Merkel said in Hanover yesterday in her first speech since
winning German elections on Sept. 22. “It’s much more fruitful
in my view to talk about how we carry out the mandate from
voters. That’s what guides me in the talks on the formation of
the next government, the formation of a grand coalition” with
the SPD.  Bargaining was already under way as negotiators from
Merkel’s Christian Democratic bloc and the SPD prepared for a
third round of preliminary talks due to begin at 3 p.m. in
Berlin today. A leader in Merkel’s bloc, Bavarian Prime Minister
 Horst Seehofer , broke ranks and said he was ready to take up the
SPD’s demand for a minimum wage, which Merkel rejected during
her campaign.  The concession on one of the SPD’s totemic policy issues
would allow the Social Democratic leadership to show its members
that it’s fighting hard to secure its campaign platform. A mini
SPD party congress is due to meet in Berlin on Oct. 20 to give
the go-ahead or reject formal negotiations on a possible
coalition with Merkel to govern Europe’s biggest economy.  Greens Exit  The chancellor was left with the SPD as the sole
negotiating partner after her bloc and the Greens were unable to
bridge their differences on tax increases to pay for
infrastructure, a Green demand that Merkel rejected as
“poison” for the economy during her campaign.  Minimum wages and taxes are among the disputes heading into
today’s talks. Merkel regards her commitment not to increase
taxes as one of two red lines in talks with the SPD, which wants
to raise the top income-tax rate to 49 percent from as low as 42
percent. The other taboo is a rejection of joint euro-area
bonds, with all other topics, including minimum wages, open to
negotiation, according to a person familiar with her strategy.  As the SPD sticks to its demand for a nationwide statutory
minimum wage of 8.50 euros ($11.50) per hour, Merkel favors an
industry-by-industry approach through collective bargaining.  Joining a Merkel government “makes no sense” unless that
coalition backs the SPD’s minimum wage concept and better pay
conditions for temporary workers, Thomas Oppermann, the party’s
parliamentary whip, said at a separate event in Hanover
yesterday.  Bavarian Concession  Merkel’s bloc may be ready to deal. Seehofer, who heads the
Bavaria-based  Christian Social Union  allied with Merkel, said he
could envisage a minimum wage if the SPD dropped its demand for
higher income taxes, the Munich-based Sueddeutsche Zeitung
newspaper cited him as saying in an interview to be published in
today’s edition.  Merkel, speaking at a labor meeting in Hanover, didn’t tip
her hand on wage policy. “We will have to have more talks with
the  Social Democrats  to see how we do this,” she said. “The
one thing we have to make sure is that we don’t destroy jobs.”  Heading a so-called grand coalition of the two biggest
parties would be familiar for Merkel, who governed with the
Social Democrats in her first term between 2005 and 2009. With
the SPD-led opposition controlling the upper house, it would
also help avoid legislative gridlock.  Bundestag Muscle  Merkel, 59, heads into coalition talks backed by the
biggest election victory since German reunification in 1990. The
result cemented her status as Europe’s pre-eminent leader,
though she fell short of the absolute majority of seats in the
lower house, or Bundestag, needed to govern alone. The Bundestag
is due to convene on Oct. 22 for its first session since the
election.  Merkel’s  Christian Democratic Union  and the CSU will send a
combined 311 members to the 631-seat Bundestag, with the SPD
 taking  193 seats. In 2005, when Merkel saw off SPD Chancellor
 Gerhard Schroeder  by a single percentage point and was forced
into a grand coalition with his party, she took 226 seats to the
SPD’s 222 seats.  Outlining her third-term plans in yesterday’s speech,
Merkel pledged to work for a stable euro area and push ahead
with Germany’s shift to renewable energy. Tackling demographic
change and financial relations between Germany’s 16 states and
the federal government are the other two priorities, she said.  “I want a stable euro area,” Merkel told the meeting of
the IGBCE union, sticking to her line that her aim is to boost
competitiveness across the 17-nation euro area. “ Europe  should
emerge strengthened from the crisis.”  The SPD has said it will put any coalition deal agreed with
Merkel’s bloc to a ballot of its entire membership. That vote
could take place around the time of the SPD’s convention, due to
take place in Leipzig in mid-November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  