-- Merkel Lists Stable Euro First in Unveiling Third-Term Agenda
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2013-10-16T14:46:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/merkel-lists-stable-euro-first-in-unveiling-third-term-agenda.html
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  pledged to
work for a stable euro area and push ahead with Germany’s shift
to renewable energy as she outlined her third-term plans.  Merkel, who needs a coalition partner to govern after
winning elections on Sept. 22, also listed demographic change in
 Europe ’s biggest economy and financial relations between
Germany’s 16 states and the federal government among her four
priorities for the next term. She paired her agenda with a nudge
to the opposition Social Democrats to move forward in coalition
talks tomorrow with her Christian Democratic bloc.  “I want a stable euro area,” Merkel told a meeting of the
IGBCE labor union in Hanover today. “Europe should emerge
strengthened from the crisis.” Sticking to the line she has
pursued throughout the debt crisis, she said the aim is to boost
competitiveness across the 17-nation euro area.  Merkel’s comments to the mining, energy and chemical-industry union marked her first policy speech since winning the
biggest election victory since German reunification. The
chancellor, in office since 2005, needs a new coalition partner
after her second-term ally, the Free Democrats, failed to win
any parliamentary seats in last month’s vote.  On energy, Merkel drew applause when she said “we want to
expand renewable energies but it has to happen in a way that
doesn’t endanger  Germany ’s industrial base.”  She gave her most explicit backing yet to counter the
oversupply of emissions certificates in the European Union’s
carbon market, an emergency fix known as back-loading. “We need
a certain degree of back-loading of CO2 emissions so certificate
prices return to a sensible level,” Merkel said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  