-- EU Carbon Jumps Most in Three Months After Merkel Backs Glut Fix
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a   a n d   A l e s s a n d r o   V i t e l l i
-- 2013-10-16T16:47:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/eu-carbon-jumps-most-in-three-months-after-merkel-backs-glut-fix.html
European Union carbon allowances
rose the most in more than three months after German Chancellor
Angela Merkel said she favored a proposal to bolster the
region’s carbon market.  Benchmark EU permits for December gained 7.7 percent to
5.34 euros ($7.21) a metric ton on London’s ICE Futures Europe,
the highest close since Sept. 27. It earlier rose as much as 11
percent, the biggest intraday gain since July 3. Merkel’s
comments are her most explicit backing yet for moves to address
an oversupply in the bloc’s 53 billion-euro cap-and-trade market
through a process known as backloading.  “We need a certain degree of backloading of CO2 emissions
so certificate prices return to a sensible level,” Merkel said
in a speech today to a labor group in Hanover,  Germany . “That’s
OK, because the economic growth rates on which the pool of CO2
certificates is based haven’t happened in the last few years.”  The support of the re-elected leader of Europe’s biggest
economy may help break a deadlock in EU talks on the emergency
fix that has been exacerbated by the failure of Merkel’s second-term government to take a position on backloading. Prices fell
as much as 92 percent from their 2008 high, making it more
profitable to generate power by burning coal instead of cleaner
natural gas.  “When certificate prices are higher, the sequence of power
plants that are competitive will shift again,” allowing gas
generation to compete with coal-fired plants, Merkel said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandro Vitelli in  London  at 
 avitelli1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  