-- EU Proposes Narrowing Airlines CO2 Curbs to Own Airspace
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2013-10-16T14:29:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/eu-proposes-narrowing-airlines-co2-curbs-to-own-airspace.html
The European Union’s regulatory arm
proposed limiting the scope of its greenhouse-gas program for
airlines to regional airspace after countries worldwide agreed
on a roadmap to a global carbon market earlier this month.  The 28-nation EU would extend a temporary freeze on foreign
flights through this year and exempt carbon-dioxide discharges
taking place from 2014 outside the European airspace, according
to a draft  amendment  to the bloc’s emissions trading law
presented today by the European Commission. The original design
of the market, which covered emissions the entire length of all
flights to and from the region’s airports, triggered opposition
from the U.S. to  Russia  and  India .  “I think all countries that will respect law and order
will recognize our right to regulate in our own sovereign
airspace,” EU Climate Commissioner  Connie Hedegaard  said at a
press conference in Brussels. “This is a very important
principle.”  The proposal means airlines from  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  to
 Air China Ltd. (753)  will need to surrender carbon allowances for
their emissions in the European airspace from 2015 as a
temporary suspension for flights into and out of the EU is
prolonged by a year. The freeze was imposed for emissions in
2012 to facilitate talks in the  International Civil Aviation
Organization , which agreed on Oct. 4 in Montreal on a roadmap to
a decision on a global carbon measure in 2016.  In Limbo  Before Europe suspended carbon curbs on foreign flights,
President  Barack Obama  signed a bill shielding U.S. carriers
including Delta from the EU rules and Russia announced it was
considering limits on European flights over Siberia as part of
possible retaliatory measures. Airbus SAS said in June that 27
orders from  China  for A330 wide-body jetliners are still in
limbo after the government there froze the contracts as part of
a campaign against the EU plans.  Europe, which wants to lead the global fight against
 climate change , included airlines in its carbon market last year
after aviation emissions in the region doubled over two decades.
Companies in the system are subject to a decreasing cap on their
emissions and have to submit allowances by the end of April each
year to cover discharges for the previous year.  There will be an extraordinary two-year compliance cycle
for airlines from 2013 through 2014, the commission said on its
website. Allowances for emissions in those two years need to be
surrendered by April 30, 2015. While intra-European flights
remain fully covered by the ETS, discharges from flights
operated to and from third countries in 2013 are exempted.  Free Permits  Prices for EU aviation permits for December rose 3.2
percent to 4.36 euros ($5.91) a metric ton yesterday on  London ’s
ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The allowances have fallen 26
percent this year.  Carriers in the ETS are given free emission permits making
up 85 percent of the industry cap and have to buy the remaining
15 percent at auctions. The auctioning schedule will be adjusted
to reflect the lower volume of aviation allowances from 2013 to
2030, the commission said.  The proposal is unlikely to alter the supply and demand
balance significantly as the change in covered emissions is
offset by proportional adjustments to auctions and free
allocation, said Jerry van Houten, an analyst at Bloomberg New
Energy Finance in London.  “The much smaller compliance burden for international
aviation means that the EU’s trading partners are unlikely to
balk at the revised plan, but some may still refuse to
cooperate,” he said by e-mail today.  ‘Tough Negotiations’  The next step for Europe on the international scene is to
secure an agreement on the details of the future emission-reduction program for airlines at the next ICAO triennial
assembly, Hedegaard said.  “That requires negotiations; I also believe tough
negotiations, from what I saw happening in  Montreal ,” she said.
“In the meantime Europe must insist on our own sovereign right
to regulate also aviation in and over our European airspace.”  Envoys from more than 190 countries to ICAO’s general
assembly earlier this month declined to validate the EU carbon
market. Instead, they called on member states to engage in
consultations when designing new or implementing existing
emission-reduction programs.  “Europe has tried to be very constructive in these
talks,” Hedegaard said. “Now we’re adjusting our legislation
so far in order also to create the necessary good atmosphere
around the negotiations up to 2016.”  1 Percent  The proposed amendment to the EU emissions-trading law also
reflects special exemptions for flights to and from developing
states, as agreed by ICAO. Routes to and from those states whose
share of international civil aviation is less than 1 percent
should not be subject to carbon-market measures until a global
program is implemented, ICAO decided earlier this month.  To be enacted, the commission’s proposal will need to be
approved by national governments and the EU Parliament. Matthias Groote, chairman of the Parliament’s environment committee, and
Peter Liese, its member overseeing aviation legislation, urged
their colleagues to decide on the draft measure swiftly.  “The EU is free to legislate within its own airspace, and
we are committed to include aviation emissions in the ETS,”
Groote said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Luxembourg at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  