-- EU Urges Serbia Progress With Kosovo as Entry Talks Loom
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2013-10-16T10:22:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/eu-urges-serbia-progress-with-kosovo-as-entry-talks-loom.html
The European Union urged Serbia to
keep on mending ties with its former province of  Kosovo , as well
as strengthen the judiciary, step up the fight against
corruption and bolster the economy as it seeks to join the bloc.  “Continued visible and sustainable progress in the
normalization of relations with Kosovo” will remain
“essential,” the European Commission said in a  progress report 
today. EU leaders plan to start entry talks with Serbia by
January.  Serbia and Kosovo signed a landmark agreement in April to
improve relations, paving the way to reconciliation five years
after Kosovo declared independence. The agreement is not
supported by the Serbian community in Kosovo and the EU expects
Prime Minister  Ivica Dacic ’s cabinet to “continue to encourage
wide participation of Kosovo Serbs” in Nov. 3 local elections.  Serbia and Kosovo need deeper EU ties after the civil wars
of the 1990s stunted the Balkan region’s transition from
communism and wreaked economic havoc. Slovenia and  Croatia  are
EU members, and Montenegro has started membership talks. The
commission today urged granting Albania the status of candidate
country and called for talks to start with the  Republic of
Macedonia . Bosnia-Herzegovina, divided between Serbian and
Muslim-Croat enclaves, lags behind.  Serbs consider Kosovo the cradle of their culture and have
vowed never to accept its independence. Kosovo is recognized by
more than 90 countries, including the U.S. and 23 of the EU’s 28
member states.  Legal Uncertainty  The commission urged  Serbia  to ensure the independence of
judges, root out corruption and strengthen crime-fighting.
Serbia also needs to increase media freedom, protect minorities
and vulnerable groups, the commission said.  Corruption and legal uncertainty hampers “the functioning
of market mechanisms,” the commission said, citing a need to
overhaul the economy to prepare for competition within the EU.
Measures should aim at building a competitive private sector, in
an economy where state presence is “significant,” state
companies are unprofitable and the shadow economy “remains an
important challenge.”  Serbia unveiled measures on Oct. 8 to consolidate public
finances, as two recessions in three years led to a deepening
deficit and swelling debt. The plan includes tax increases, a
higher  retirement age  for women, lower subsidies to state-owned
companies and crackdown on the shadow economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  