-- European Stocks Advance on U.S. Debt-Limit Deal Optimism
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2013-10-16T15:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/europe-stock-index-futures-little-changed-amid-u-s-talks.html
European stocks  rose, erasing their
decline in the final two hours of trading, as the Republican
leader of the U.S. House of Representatives was said to agree to
a Senate proposal to increase the government’s debt limit.  Ziggo NV surged the most in six months after rejecting a
preliminary takeover offer from Liberty Global Plc. Danone slid
2.3 percent after the yogurt maker also lowered its full-year
forecast following a product-safety scare that hurt cashflow in
 China . LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA dropped the most in
16 months as the luxury-goods company said sales at its fashion
and leather-accessories business slowed in the third quarter.  The Stoxx  Europe  600 Index advanced 0.2 percent to 315.55
at the close, rebounding from a decline of as much as 0.6
percent. The equity benchmark climbed to its highest level since
Sept. 19 yesterday even as the  U.S. Treasury  said it will
exhaust extraordinary measures to keep the country’s borrowing
within a debt limit by tomorrow.  “Hopes for a deal are pushing risk assets higher,” Nick Xanders, an equity strategist at BTIG Ltd. in  London , said.
“Short-term Treasury bills have fallen -- that is the main
indicator. We are hostage to headlines, which makes it more
volatile than it should be.”  The rate on a Treasury bill maturing on Oct. 31 dropped 21
basis points as a senior Republican said that House Speaker  John
Boehner  will allow the chamber to vote on a Senate proposal to
extend the government’s borrowing authority.  Kevin Brady  of
Texas predicted that the measure would pass.  Senate Talks  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Democrat, and Minority
Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Republican, restarted talks late
yesterday on a deal to prevent a default. The proposed agreement
would also reopen the federal government, which has been closed
since Oct. 1.  “ Senator Reid  and Senator McConnell have re-engaged in
negotiations and are optimistic that an agreement is within
reach,” a spokesman for Reid said in a statement.  National benchmark indexes climbed in 14 of the 18 western-European markets. The U.K’s FTSE 100 advanced 0.3 percent and
 Germany ’s DAX added 0.5 percent.  France ’s  CAC 40 (CAC)  Index decreased
0.3 percent.  Ziggo rallied 6.7 percent to 31.20 euros. The Dutch cable-television operator said it rejected a preliminary takeover
offer from Liberty Global Plc. The U.S. media company may not
make a further bid, Ziggo said in a statement.  IMI Plc (IMI)  advanced 1.9 percent to 1,528 pence. The British
manufacturing company  agreed to sell  its drink-dispenser and
merchandising businesses to Marmon Group, a Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. company, for $1.1 billion in cash. IMI will return 620
million pounds ($987 million) to shareholders and contribute 70
million pounds to its pension fund, according to a statement.  Danone Retreats  Danone slid 2.3 percent to 51.83 euros. Comparable revenue
in the three months through September gained 4.2 percent from a
year earlier, the Paris-based company said in a statement. That
missed the  median  of 15 analysts’ estimates of 4.8 percent.
Danone also said that its revenue from baby-nutrition products
in  Asia  has declined following the product scare.  “Our plans to restart sales are in progress in the
countries concerned and are producing effects, effectively but
very gradually,” the food producer said.  LVMH dropped 4.3 percent to 138.70 euros. The Paris-based
company said late yesterday that third-quarter revenue advanced
to 7.02 billion euros ($9.5 billion) from 6.9 billion euros.
Analysts had predicted 7.24 billion euros, according to the
median of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Christian Dior SA
slid 4.2 percent to 139.90 euros.  Publicis, Peugeot  Publicis Groupe SA slipped 2 percent to 58.44 euros. The
company, which plans to merge with Omnicom Group Inc. to form
the world’s biggest advertising firm, reported slower third-quarter sales growth. Revenue rose 3 percent to 1.68 billion
euros from a year earlier, according to a statement. Excluding
currency fluctuations and acquisitions, sales climbed 3.5
percent. They increased 5 percent in the previous quarter.  PSA Peugeot Citroen lost 4.4 percent to 10.25 euros and
Fiat SpA fell 4 percent to 6.14 euros. European sales at the
largest carmakers in France and Italy declined 3 percent and 3.4
percent, respectively, in September, according to a report from
the  European Automobile Manufacturers Association , or ACEA.  ASML Holding NV (ASML)  retreated 3 percent to 69.93 euros.
Europe’s largest semiconductor-equipment supplier reported that
 third-quarter profit  declined 30 percent because costs climbed
as it expanded into more advanced technologies.  Ubisoft Entertainment SA sank 26 percent to 8.19 euros, the
biggest tumble since its initial public offering in 1996.
Electronic Arts Inc.’s smaller French rival cut its full-year
sales forecast by as much as a third and predicted an operating
loss after delaying the release of two major games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in London at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  