-- Teva Director Hurvitz Supports Deals, Says Cost Cuts Necessary
-- B y   D a v i d   W a i n e r
-- 2013-10-16T10:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/teva-director-hurvitz-supports-deals-says-cost-cuts-necessary.html
Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA) 
may be prepared to speed up the pace of acquisitions next year
as Chief Executive Officer Jeremy Levin cuts costs and sets up a
new management team, board member Chaim Hurvitz said.  “Now that we all feel more comfortable with what’s cooking
in the kitchen, there could be a few deals in the hundreds-of-millions of dollars to 1-billion-dollar range,” Hurvitz, who
previously served as Teva’s international group president said
in an telephone interview. “Either you buy a company with a
specific geographic presence to enhance your footprint or you
buy a company with a specific product line.”  Since taking the helm of the world’s largest generic-drug
maker last year, Levin has pledged to focus the company in key
areas of expertise such as neurology and respiratory treatments.
He has made several changes to management, including the
appointment of Americas head Allan Oberman and Chief Scientific
Officer  Michael Hayden .  While Petach Tikva, Israel-based Teva builds up its
pipeline, Levin is under pressure to make up for an expected
loss to sales of bestseller Copaxone, as the multiple sclerosis
injection faces competition from oral medicines such as  Biogen
Idec Inc.’s (BIIB)  Tecfidera and patent expiration next year. To offset
the potential decline in profits, Levin has embarked on the
company’s largest cost-cut program to date, promising to
eliminate 10 percent of Teva’s jobs to save $2 billion.  Local Outrage  The job cuts have sparked outrage in  Israel , where
operations have been buttressed by the Encouragement of Capital
Investments Law, which provides Teva and others, such as  Intel
Corp ., with tax breaks for investing in certain areas. Several
political figures, including Finance Minister Yair Lapid, have
said that Israel should reconsider Teva’s tax breaks following
the cuts.  “As emotional as I am and as painful as it is, we have to
bring  shareholder value ,” said Hurvitz, whose father Eli Hurvitz led Teva as CEO for 25 years. “The board and top
management back up the cost savings program 100 percent. In 112
years, we never really laid off people. If we have to do it,
it’s justified.”  Chaim Hurvitz now runs CH Health, a venture-capital
company.  Since Levin joined Teva, the company has spent less than $1
billion in acquisitions, a shift from his predecessor Shlomo Yanai, who bought Ratiopharm GmbH, based in Ulm, Germany, for
about $5 billion and spent $6.2 billion to buy Frazer,
Pennsylvania-based Cephalon Inc.  Internal Capabilities  “In Michael’s first year we needed to focus first on
internal capabilities,” said Hurvitz, referring to the R&D head
who joined shortly after Levin last year. “A few deals in the
scales of hundreds of millions can definitely be expected in the
next few years. Deals that build up our product line or expand
our geographic reach. It’s easy and we know how to integrate
them. I’m for it.”  The company offered more than $700 million for  San Diego ,
California-based  Receptos Inc. (RCPT) , according to Calcalist newspaper
today. A Teva spokesman, commenting on the Calcalist story by a
text message, said the company doesn’t comment on rumors in the
market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wainer in  Tel Aviv  at 
 dwainer3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  