-- Ex-Madoff Employees Helped Conceal Fraud, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2013-10-16T22:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/ex-madoff-employees-helped-conceal-fraud-prosecutor-says.html
Five former employees of Bernard L. Madoff helped conceal his $17 billion  Ponzi scheme  by making
fake documents to trick customers and regulators for decades, a
federal prosecutor told a jury.  The defendants created millions of false account statements
and elaborate trading records to mislead anyone who came in
contact with the company, and became rich in the process,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Matthew Schwartz said today in his
opening statement at the trial in federal court in  New York .  “They enabled the fraud in different but essential ways,”
Schwartz told the 12-person jury. “They did it for the most
simple reason of all -- greed.”  The three men and two women on trial knew Madoff’s
securities firm didn’t conduct real trades and used money from
earlier investors to pay off new ones, the U.S. alleges. When
the fraud collapsed on Dec. 11, 2008, thousands of customers
lost at least $17 billion in principal and $48 billion in fake
profit they believed was being held in their accounts.  Schwartz spoke to the jurors for more than an hour and a
half in a late-afternoon hearing not far from  Wall Street , where
Madoff’s company was once based in the 1970s. Defense lawyers
will give their opening statements tomorrow.  “It’s often said that jurors decide a case following
opening statements -- at a minimum, perspectives on the evidence
are formed that are difficult to overcome,” said Richard Scheff, a former federal prosecutor who’s chairman of
Philadelphia-based law firm Montgomery, McCracken, Walker &
Rhoads LLP.  Long Trial  The former employees, all of whom have pleaded not guilty,
are Annette Bongiorno, a Madoff employee for 40 years who went
from being his personal secretary to helping run the company’s
investment advisory business; Joann Crupi, a manager of large
accounts who worked closely with Bongiorno; Daniel Bonventre,
the operations chief who signed checks for Madoff’s securities
firm and worked with its general ledger; and computer
programmers Jerome O’Hara and  George Perez , whose expertise was
used to generate millions of corporate documents.  “For more than 30 years,  Bernard Madoff  ran a
multibillion-dollar fraud that turned out to be the biggest
Ponzi scheme in history,” Schwartz said. “These are the people
who helped him do it.”  U.S. District Judge Laura Taylor Swain has said the trial
she’s overseeing may last five months, including a weeklong jury
selection process that ended yesterday. The 12 jurors and six
alternates will hear what will become the fullest account of how
Madoff carried out the Ponzi scheme.  The ex-employees “obsessed” over the details of fake
documents they created to make them look real, including long
discussions over what fonts and paper to use and where to place
asterisks, Schwartz said.  Hot Potato  When auditors from  KPMG  appeared in Madoff’s offices
requesting a report the company hadn’t faked in advance, the
defendants kept them waiting while they created one, printed it,
placed it in the refrigerator to cool it down and tossed it
“like a hot potato” to make it look roughed up, Schwartz said.  Schwartz told the jury they would see extensive evidence
against the defendants, including Bongiorno’s “meticulous
records of her involvement in the fraud” and details of Crupi’s
management of the “slush fund” into which all customers’ money
was deposited instead of being invested into securities.  The evidence will show Crupi used her corporate card for
$50,000 in personal expenses each year that she didn’t claim on
her taxes, and used $2.7 million in stolen money to buy a beach
house, Schwartz said. A photograph of the house was displayed on
flat-screen monitors in the jury box.  Scouring Newspapers  The two women worked together daily, scouring newspapers
for stock prices to put together the right mix of fake trades
and prices to use on customers’ fake account statements,
according to the U.S.  Prosecutors will also show Bonventre used money stolen from
Madoff’s customers to pay for his vacations and country club
dues, finance his child’s private-school education, help buy a
“fancy Upper East Side apartment” for himself and “fancy
cigars,” Schwartz told the jury.  Evidence during the trial will show O’Hara and Perez in
2006 realized their programming codes -- which allowed the
firm’s computers to “spit out fake paperwork” -- were
essential to keeping the fraud going, and demanded more money
from Madoff to keep quiet, Schwartz said. He gave the men
$100,000 each and let them name their own annual bonuses and
salary increases, according to the prosecutor.  ‘Won’t Lie’  The jurors were shown an image of a note allegedly hand-written by O’Hara during that period that said, “I won’t lie
any longer.”  Defense lawyers will need to “plant the seeds of doubt”
about the government’s case and suggest to jurors that the
defendants were “as much duped by  Bernie Madoff  as others,”
said Scheff, who isn’t involved in the case.  Their challenge will be showing that the former employees
had isolated knowledge about what went on at the company and
lacked Madoff’s big-picture view, said Tamar Frankel, a
professor at the Boston University School of Law.  “Even if they were able to know, what was their access to
the materials that would have suggested that something else was
going on?” Frankel said in an e-mail. “Did they have enough
information to put two and two together and come up with some
suspicion about his investments?”  ‘Elaborate Fiction’  The fraud started in the early 1970s and evolved into an
“elaborate fiction” that was “surprisingly simple” and made
each of the defendants rich, Schwartz told the jury today.  Testimony from Madoff’s accomplices who pleaded guilty will
be central to the government’s case against the five people. The
U.S. in 2009 won a guilty plea from  Frank DiPascali , Madoff’s
finance chief, who agreed to assist with the criminal case and
is set to testify. David Friehling, an accountant for Madoff,
pleaded guilty to helping prepare phony tax returns and is
cooperating with prosecutors.  Schwartz said DiPascali and other testifying witnesses,
including others who pleaded guilty and their secretaries and
assistants, would “give the ultimate insider’s perspective to
Madoff’s fraud.”  Madoff, 75, admitted to federal agents in December 2008
that his company was a sham. He pleaded guilty to 11 counts and
was sentenced to 150 years in prison, though he claimed all
along that he worked alone and refused to implicate anyone else.  Federal authorities also obtained guilty pleas from  Peter Madoff , who helped his brother run the firm for four decades,
and employees Craig Kugel, David Kugel, Enrica Cotellessa-Pitz,
Irwin Lipkin and Eric Lipkin.  Peter Madoff was sentenced to 10 years in prison. The other
defendants haven’t been sentenced.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in New York at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 