-- Mexican Peso Rallies Most in Emerging Markets on U.S. Prospects
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2013-10-16T14:16:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/mexican-peso-rallies-most-in-emerging-markets-on-u-s-prospects.html
Mexico’s peso rose to a three-week
high on speculation U.S. lawmakers will reach an agreement to
end a fiscal impasse that has damped the outlook for the Latin
American country’s biggest trading partner.  The currency appreciated 0.8 percent to 12.8897 per  U.S.
dollar  at 8:50 a.m. in Mexico City, the strongest level on a
closing basis since Sept. 23. The gain was the biggest among
emerging-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  While concern has mounted over a showdown in  Washington 
that has weighed on demand for emerging-market assets, the
consensus among investors is that the U.S. will reach an
agreement, according to  Ramon Cordova , a trader at Banco Base SA
in San Pedro Garza Garcia, Mexico.  “There’s confidence that the U.S. isn’t going to
default,” Cordova said in an e-mailed response to questions.
The peso “is simply coming back. Economic fundamentals say it
should be stronger.”  Growth in Latin America’s second-biggest economy will
accelerate to 3.8 percent next year after gross domestic product
expands 1.9 percent in 2013, according to the median forecasts
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  In the U.S., the Senate rushed to lock up an agreement to
end a 16-day-old government shutdown and extend the nation’s
borrowing authority, which lapses tomorrow.  Fitch Ratings  placed
the U.S. AAA credit grade on watch for a possible reduction
yesterday.  Mexico  sends about 80 percent of its exports to the
world’s biggest economy.  Yields on Mexico’s peso bonds due in December 2024 rose two
basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 5.97 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in Mexico City at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  