-- Airbus Said to Near $5 Billion Jet Order From VivaAerobus
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2013-10-16T23:15:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/mexico-s-vivaaerobus-said-to-near-5-billion-airbus-order.html
Airbus SAS is poised to win a $5
billion order as Aeroenlaces Nacionales SA, the Mexican airline
known as VivaAerobus, expands and upgrades its fleet of aging
 Boeing Co. (BA)  737s, people familiar with the plan said.  The deal is for 40 narrow-body A320neos with new engines
and 12 of the current A320 models, said the people, who asked
not to be identified because the talks are private. VivaAerobus,
 Mexico ’s fourth-biggest carrier, may announce the transaction as
soon as next week, the people said.  Displacing Boeing planes would be a boost for Toulouse,
France-based Airbus, and the airline would see fuel efficiency
rise with the A320-family aircraft over older 737s. While  Grupo
Aeromexico SAB (AEROMEX*) , Mexico’s largest airline, opted to buy Boeing
models in 2012, closely held VivaAerobus is joining Interjet and
Volaris in adding jets from Airbus.  Airbus has “been very aggressive and they’ve been rewarded
for that,” said  Richard Aboulafia , an analyst at Fairfax,
Virginia-based consultant Teal Group. “They’ve been taking
advantage of the disruption in the airline business there. When
you don’t have the No. 1, you go after the new entrants and
that’s been good for Airbus.”  The VivaAerobus purchase would be valued at about $5
billion based on Airbus’s published list prices, on which
airlines typically get a discount.  October Meeting  Stefan Schaffrath, a spokesman for Airbus, declined to
comment about a VivaAerobus order, as did Alejandra Ochoa, a
spokeswoman for the Monterrey, Mexico-based airline. The carrier
has sent invitations for a meeting in Mexico City on Oct. 21
that includes an announcement, without disclosing details.  Boeing doesn’t comment on “speculation about customer
orders,” said  Jim Proulx , a spokesman for the Chicago-based
company.  Airbus plans to begin delivering A320neos starting in late
2015, getting a jump on Boeing’s re-engined 737s due to enter
service in 2017. The people familiar with the discussions didn’t
provide details on any timetable for the VivaAerobus planes.  VivaAerobus’s fleet is 19 Boeing 737-300s, according to the
airline’s website. That version of the 737, the world’s most
widely flown airliner, had its final delivery in 1999, Boeing’s
website shows.  “It’s more economical to fly newer planes, so this will
help VivaAerobus in terms of fuel consumption,” Fernando Gomez,
an independent aviation consultant in Mexico City, said in a
telephone interview. “All their competitors are renovating or
increasing their fleets.”  Ryanair Connection  VivaAerobus was set up in 2006 by  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) 
founder Tony Ryan in partnership with a closely held Mexican bus
company. The airline is working with  Barclays Plc (BARC)  to prepare for
a possible initial public offering, three people with knowledge
of the matter said earlier.  Airbus parent  European Aeronautic Defence & Space Co. (EAD)  fell
0.5 percent yesterday to 48.32 euros in Paris, paring its year-to-date gain to  64 percent . Boeing has gained 60 percent in the
same period, and closed at $120.34.  Mexico’s passenger traffic rose to a record in 2012 after
expanding at the fastest pace since 2007. Carriers are jockeying
to add planes as they try to fill the void created when Cia.
Mexicana de Aviacion, formerly the country’s largest carrier,
sought protection from creditors and ceased operations in 2010.  Aeromexico announced a 100-jet order from Boeing last year,
and Interjet is taking Airbus aircraft as well as Superjet 100
regional jets from a joint venture between Moscow-based United
Aircraft Corp.’s Sukhoi and a unit of  Italy ’s  Finmeccanica SpA. (FNC)   Mexico has become “an increasingly competitive
battleground” for Boeing and Airbus, Teal Group’s Aboulafia
said. “This market, both because of the growth rates and
because of airline restructuring, makes it a pretty good bet.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  