-- Fed Relegates Default to Sideshow as Volatility Ebbs: Currencies
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   C a n d i c e   Z a c h a r i a h s
-- 2013-10-16T10:59:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/fed-relegates-default-to-sideshow-as-volatility-ebbs-currencies.html
In the world’s largest market, the
potential for a U.S. default is proving to be a distraction to
what really matters: whether the  Federal Reserve  will maintain
its extraordinary monetary stimulus.  The JPMorgan Chase & Co. index that measures price swings
in the $5.3 trillion-a-day foreign-exchange market has tumbled
rather than increased as the Oct. 17 deadline approaches for 
when U.S. borrowing authority lapses. The New York-based firm’s
Global FX Volatility Index slid to 8.28 percent yesterday, the
lowest level since January and down from a one-year high of
11.96 percent in June.  The drop in volatility underscores how the Fed’s grip on
asset prices around the globe is only getting tighter as it
pumps $85 billion a month into the financial system by buying
bonds. The longer the U.S. government remains shut and the
possibility of default increases, the less likely it is that the
central bank will taper its purchases anytime soon.  “Markets have been gaining comfort from the assumption
that the Fed will probably delay tapering,”  Ian Stannard , the
head of European foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan Stanley in
 London , said in a phone interview yesterday. “Volatility has
remained low, so there’s a positive environment for investors to
return to higher-yielding currencies.”  Carry Trade  While the U.S. government is publishing only limited
economic data during the shutdown, the  Federal Reserve Bank of
New York  said yesterday that its  general economic index  for  New
York , northern  New Jersey  and southern  Connecticut  fell to 1.5
for October, a five-month low, from 6.3 in September. The median
estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists called for a
reading of 7.  Muted price swings benefit traders who borrow cheaply in
countries with low  interest rates , and use the proceeds to buy
currencies of economies with higher-yielding assets in what is
known as the carry trade. UBS AG’s V24 Carry Index us up 2.8
percent this month, adding to September’s 1.8 percent gain that
was the first in four months.  The U.S.’s AAA credit grade was placed on rating watch
negative yesterday by  Fitch Ratings , which cited the
government’s failure to raise its $16.7 trillion borrowing limit
as the Treasury Department’s deadline nears. Senate leaders
resumed talks yesterday aimed at avoiding a default and ending
the shutdown after the Republican-controlled House scrapped a
vote on its plan.  Government Shutdown  Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew has said that if Congress
doesn’t raise the debt cap the U.S. will exhaust its borrowing
authority by tomorrow, while a dispute over funding President
 Barack Obama ’s health reforms has kept some government offices
shuttered all month.  Fed Bank of Dallas President  Richard Fisher  said the
central bank could reduce the turmoil from a U.S. default, which
he said is unlikely.  “I’m very confident” in the ability of the Fed Bank of New
York to “mitigate the chaos that might ensue should we default,”
Fisher said yesterday in a speech in New York. “I don’t think
that’s going to happen.”  The emerging Senate agreement would fund the government
through Jan. 15 and suspend the debt limit through Feb. 7. The
Treasury could use so-called extraordinary measures to delay
default for about another month, said a Senate Democratic aide
who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the plan.  Fiscal ‘Uncertainty’  A short-term deal would mean “another period of
uncertainty in the not too distant future that may again limit
the extent to which currencies move in the meantime,”  John Horner , a Sydney-based currency strategist at Deutsche Bank AG,
said by phone yesterday “It comes back to the Fed but also,
more generally, to the broader economic impact that uncertainty
may have.”  The U.S. government shutdown has prompted two out of five
Americans to curb spending, according to a survey of 1,025
commissioned by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and conducted Oct. 10-13. Directors at the Fed’s district banks said last month the
 U.S. economy  was expanding at a “moderate” pace, though fiscal
“uncertainties” and higher interest rates remained risks to
the outlook, minutes released yesterday showed.  A one-week partial U.S. government shutdown would trim 0.1
percentage point from economic growth, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The crisis may
also encourage policy makers to delay lifting the  zero-to-0.25
percent  target interest rate.  Market ‘Complacency’  The market is “bordering on complacency” and volatility
will rise if the Oct. 17 deadline passes as traders price in the
probability of no deal being reached by month-end, Bank of
America Corp.’s Hong Kong-based analysts Bin Gao and  Adarsh Sinha  wrote in a note to clients yesterday.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  announced Sept. 18 the central
bank wouldn’t reduce bond purchases without evidence of a more
sustained improvement in the U.S. economy. JPMorgan’s volatility
gauge dropped 4 percent that day to the lowest in four months.  “Markets are being manipulated by central banks, and so
the traditional tools you would use to predict forex markets
don’t work as well,” Richard Falkenhall, a strategist at SEB
AB, said yesterday in a phone interview from  Stockholm .
“Investors expected the Fed to wind down their purchases, but
now it seems like they’ll carry on for longer.”  Carry Opportunities  Realized volatility for the euro against the dollar, a
measure of historical price swings, fell to 6.46 percent today,
the lowest level since Bloomberg began collating the data in May
2007 and down from 9.18 percent on May 3.  “With what’s going on in Washington right now, you’d think
we’d be creating volatility,” Eric Viloria, a senior currency
strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said in a
phone interview yesterday. “But taking a look at the context of
monetary policy, it’s just going to delay tapering.”  Carry trades may offer opportunities to recoup some of the
losses they suffered earlier this year.  The Parker Global Strategies LLC Currency Manager Index,
which tracks returns of foreign-exchange strategies, slid for a
sixth month in September, the longest run of losses since the
data were first collated in 2001. The index dropped to 154.66 on
Sept. 30, from a high for this year of 165.14 in March, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Hedge Closure  FX Concepts LLC, the firm founded by  John Taylor  and whose
$12 billion in assets in 2009 made it the world’s largest
currency hedge fund, said this week it’s closing its investment-management business because of difficult  currency markets .  “If, during the lame-duck period at the Fed, volatility
stays low, one could see carry trades becoming popular,”
Stephen Jen, the co-founder of hedge fund SLJ Macro Partners LLP
in London and former head of foreign-exchange strategy at Morgan
Stanley, said in an e-mail yesterday. “This might be a two-month play, because the Fed will have to taper later if not
sooner.”  Buying the Brazilian real by selling dollars handed
investors a 4.7 percent total return the past month, making it
the most lucrative trade among 31 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. The trade lost 7.6 percent in the second quarter.  Investors purchasing Malaysia’s ringgit received 2.1
percent, after losing 2.1 percent from April to June, while
India’s rupee made 2.7 percent, following a 6.8 percent loss in
the previous period, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  UBS’s V24 Carry Index, which tracks positions in 24
currencies through the forwards market, climbed to 436.94
yesterday, the highest level since July 29 and up from a seven-year low of 417.32 on Sept. 5. Its 4.3 percent third-quarter
loss was the biggest since it plunged 11 percent in the three
months to September 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “If we get past the next couple of days, with core rates
close to zero, that could support carry trades,” Dan Dorrow,
the head of research at Faros Trading LLC in  Stamford ,
Connecticut, said in a phone interview yesterday. He recommends
buying the Chilean peso against the greenback and Russia’s ruble
versus the Canadian dollar. “Volatility will probably stay at
current levels or possibly lower.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Candice Zachariahs in Sydney at 
 czachariahs2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net ;
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  