-- Fiat Union to Meet UAW Leaders on Chrysler Deal Impasse
-- B y   T o m m a s o   E b h a r d t
-- 2013-10-16T09:42:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/fiat-union-to-meet-uaw-leaders-on-chrysler-deal-impasse.html
Fiat SpA (F) ’s union leaders will meet
top officials at the  United Auto Workers  next week in a bid to
bridge an impasse over the Italian carmaker’s effort to merge
with Chrysler Group LLC.  Sergio Marchionne , chief executive officer of both Fiat and
Chrysler, is being forced by a UAW retiree health-care trust to
prepare for a listing of the American company because the two
sides are at odds on the value of shares held by the union fund.  “We are concerned that a Chrysler initial public offering
would harm a combination of the two carmakers,” Ferdinando Uliano, Fim Cisl national secretary in charge of Fiat relations,
said in a phone interview. “We’ll tell the UAW that only a
merger of Fiat and Chrysler would grant a positive future for
both companies’ workers.”  A Fim Cisl delegation will meet with UAW leaders, including
President  Bob King , in Detroit as part of a scheduled trip to
consult with American counterparts, said Uliano, who will be
part of the delegation. Turin-based Fiat owns 58.5 percent in
Chrysler and the UAW trust the remaining 41.5 percent.  Marchionne has spent the past four years working to combine
Fiat and Auburn Hills, Michigan-based Chrysler to create a
global automaker with the scale to compete with  Toyota Motor
Corp. (7203) ,  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Chrysler filed for an IPO on Sept. 23. Preparations for the
stock sale may help resolve a dispute over the value of the
trust’s stake. The union fund is seeking at least $1 billion
more than Fiat wants to pay. The Italian company has said that
going through with the IPO may put the manufacturers’
relationship at risk.  Buying the trust’s holding in Chrysler would help Fiat gain
access to the U.S. carmaker’s $12 billion in cash to help fund a
turnaround in  Europe , where the Italian company is losing money
and market share. Fiat’s deliveries fell 3.4 percent in
September in Europe, while new car sales in the region rose 5.5
percent, the most in more than two years.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tommaso Ebhardt in Milan at 
 tebhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  