-- Flaherty Anti-QE Stance Opens Central Bank, G-20 Rift
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2013-10-16T15:12:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/flaherty-anti-qe-stance-opens-central-bank-g-20-rift.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty ’s criticism of U.S. monetary policy, which he ramped up
last week in Washington, may be putting him at odds with the
Bank of  Canada  and the Group of 20.  Flaherty said he criticized the  Federal Reserve ’s use of
unconventional monetary policy known as quantitative easing at a
private dinner of G-20 officials on Oct. 10, with U.S. Federal
Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  in attendance.  “I was fairly clear” at the meeting, Flaherty told
reporters the next day. “It’s not good public policy,” he
said, describing quantitative easing as “the printing of
money.”  The comments raise questions about how Canada would respond
if the global economy faced a shock such as a U.S. default,
because the  Bank of Canada   lists  quantitative easing as one of
the policies it can follow when its key policy rate is as low as
possible. The central bank would need the consent of the finance
department to pursue the policy because it could require the
bank to buy riskier assets than usual.  The Fed surprised investors last month by deciding not to
trim its $85 billion-a-month asset-purchase program, which is
designed to support growth. Previous signals from Fed officials,
including Bernanke, that they may curtail bond buying prompted
calls from the  International Monetary Fund , China and  Mexico  for
the U.S. to communicate better.  G-20 leaders meeting in  Russia  in September said in a
 statement  they recognize the support that has come “from
accommodative monetary policies, including unconventional
monetary policies.” They also said central bankers would make
sure policy changes are “carefully calibrated and clearly
communicated,” a pledge officials repeated on the weekend.  Growing Frustration  Flaherty’s comments may reflect the Canadian government’s
growing frustration with a policy whose growth benefits have
been questioned and which may have kept the currency stronger
than it otherwise would be, crimping exports, said  David Tulk ,
chief Canada macro strategist in Toronto at TD Securities.  “It does have a diminishing return, I think that’s where
his comments are more focused on,” Tulk said. “Tapering is
actually a good thing for the Canadian economy because it’s the
explicit acknowledgment of a stronger  U.S. economy , but it also
helps to push the Canadian dollar lower.”  While Canada’s central bank hasn’t used asset purchases to
fuel growth, unlike the U.K. and the U.S., the Bank of Canada
has said quantitative easing is an option they would consider if
needed.  ‘Tool Kit’  “It’s a tool that’s in the tool kit,” Governor Stephen Poloz said Oct. 11 in  Washington . “We laid that out in 2009 in
the midst of the crisis under what sorts of contingencies one
might have to think about those things.”  Poloz also said he and Flaherty “certainly agree that
quantitative easing is one of the last things we want to be in a
position to have to use.”  Flaherty has been more definitive in recent days in his
opposition to the policy. At an Oct. 10 press conference in
Washington, he said the U.S. should never have implemented the
policy “in the first place.”  “Now that they’ve done it, they should get out of it as
quickly as they can,” Flaherty said.  The comments suggest Flaherty has dropped some of the
nuance he’s used in the past on the issue. He told CBC
Television in a November 2010 interview that quantitative easing
was an option for policy makers. In a December 2010 interview
with Bloomberg, Flaherty said the U.S. has few options other
than quantitative easing since President  Barack Obama  lacked the
ability to win legislative backing for further fiscal stimulus
measures.  Exit Timing  How quickly the U.S. should exit from its asset purchase
program has been one of the main issues at the G-20 in recent
months. Emerging market officials have expressed concern that
when the Fed does begin tapering its bond buying, it could hurt
them by sparking an exodus of investment, leading to higher
borrowing costs. Brazil, Turkey,  South Africa , India and
Indonesia are the most vulnerable, Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
strategists said in a Sept. 5 report.  The fact that quantitative easing could be around longer
than expected may be adding to Flaherty’s frustration, said  John Kirton , a political scientist and head of the G-8 Research Group
at the  University of Toronto .  “His remarks are certainly discrepant with the G-20 wide
position,” Kirton said in a telephone interview. “Whether they
are discrepant with the evolving Canada position is a more
complex question.”  Controversial Position  This isn’t the first time Flaherty has taken a
controversial position within the G-20. In 2012, he joined U.S.
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  arguing against giving
the IMF more money to help  Europe  deal with its debt crisis, and
saying non-European countries should have a veto over the
lender’s role in Europe.  He was the first G-7 minister to openly raise the
possibility of  Greece  leaving the euro at a meeting in Marseille
in 2011 and led the charge in the G-20 against European efforts
to impose a global tax on banks.  Flaherty also has criticized U.S. fiscal policy. At a
meeting of G-7 ministers in the U.K. in May, Flaherty said the
U.S.’s push for an easing of austerity was fostering ambiguity.  Often, he’s been vindicated. The IMF admitted last
September that its cooperation with European institutions over
bailouts in the euro region often delayed decision making.
Canada’s opposition to Europe’s bank tax efforts ended up with
broad support in the G-20.  Flaherty may be more isolated on this issue, something he
acknowledged last week when he told reporters that he’s “not
winning” the debate.  “I am surprised that he is going as far as to say they
shouldn’t have done it in the first place,” said  Mark Chandler ,
head of fixed income research at  RBC Capital Markets  in Toronto.
“Most people would disagree with that.”  Chisholm Pothier, a spokesman for Flaherty, said his office
didn’t have anything to add to the comments in Washington.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  