-- Fracking Opponents Find Lawyers Beat Superglue in Slowing Shale
-- B y   N i d a a   B a k h s h
-- 2013-10-17T12:38:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/fracking-opponents-find-lawyers-beat-superglue-in-slowing-shale.html
Campaigners desperate to prevent the
birth of a U.K. shale-gas industry have glued themselves to
walls, barricaded country lanes and climbed drill rigs. Yet
their most potent weapon is more prosaic: lawyers.  Anti-shale groups including Friends of the Earth and
Greenpeace are using environmental and property law to challenge
drilling at every turn, and it’s working. Production is now
likely to start in 2018, two years later than envisaged, partly
because getting permission to explore has been so slow, said
 John Williams , senior principal at energy consultants Poyry Plc.  The delay is frustrating Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s
plans to expand economic growth and cut energy prices by
developing shale. For the protesters, no good can come from
hydraulic fracturing, the process that uses a mix of pressurized
water and chemicals to prise fuel out of shale rock. They say it
pollutes water and contributes to greenhouse-gas emissions.  “There is a broad range of legal and commercial dynamics
for the nascent U.K. shale industry to navigate,” said Jon Clark, head of oil and gas transaction services at Ernst & Young
LLP. “Lobby groups are scrutinizing and applying challenges in
many of these areas.”  The U.K. isn’t the only country where the law is stopping
explorers trying to repeat the success of the industry in the
U.S.’s shale fields.  France ’s highest court upheld a ban on
fracking last week, while drillers face a legal battle to
develop fields in  South Africa . On Oct. 10, the European
Parliament voted to tighten regulation on shale drilling.  Trespass Laws  Greenpeace this week started a campaign that encourages
U.K. landowners to use trespass laws to block exploration. The
group says drilling horizontally under people’s land -- a
technique widely used in shale production -- is illegal unless
the property owner gives permission.  “There’s no doubt the breadth and depth of fracking
opposition across England is proving problematic for the
government and the industry,” said  Greenpeace  energy campaigner
Leila Deen. “Anti-fracking groups are very switched on, very
well-networked and prepared to use a range of means to stop
fracking, including legal.”  At Balcombe, a village south of  London  that saw anti-shale
protests from July, Cuadrilla Resources Ltd. mothballed a well
it spent a month drilling to  resubmit a planning application 
because of ambiguity related to the boundaries. Protesters also
demonstrated at the company’s headquarters in Lichfield, central
 England , in August. Others superglued themselves to the entrance
of an office block housing its public-relations advisers.  Permit Application  In June, Cuadrilla had been made to  seek a mining waste
permit  for its Balcombe site after Friends of the Earth wrote to
the Environment Agency, a move that held up the start of
drilling.  The challenges from campaign groups have made Cuadrilla
cautious at its other projects. Drilling at a license in
Lancashire in northwest England was delayed by almost a year to
allow the company to carry out a full environmental impact
assessment. This month, Cuadrilla  said  it would abandon the site
on concern its operations would endanger migrating birds.  Because exploiting shale relies on horizontal wells that
stretch thousands of meters through narrow layers of rock,
drilling will typically pass under several properties and
companies may require the consent of all landowners involved.  In 2008, Mohamed al-Fayed, the businessman who once owned
Harrods department store, successfully sued Star Energy U.K.
Ltd. under laws of trespass for drilling under his estate in
Surrey, England, without seeking permission.  Obtain Consent  “It is unlawful if companies don’t obtain consent from
landowners or follow the statutory process for compulsory
acquisition of the rights,” said Emma Bissett, an associate in
the energy and natural resources team at Squire Sanders LLP in
Leeds, England. “If they continue drilling without this, they
risk being sued for trespass and open themselves up to the risk
that the court may grant an injunction to stop the drilling.”  Cuadrilla said the issue shouldn’t be a bar to developing
shale fields in Britain.  “All of our existing subsurface underground rail, water,
gas, telecommunications and electric development has
historically succeeded in legal coexistence with surface
property rights,” Chief Executive Officer Francis Egan said
Oct. 14. “We are confident that new subsurface shale
development that safely offers  energy security , skilled jobs and
community benefits will be no different.”  Bowland Basin  The U.K. said in June the Bowland basin that stretches from
the east to the northwest of England may hold as much as 1,300
trillion cubic feet of gas. An extraction rate of 10 percent,
typical at U.S. fields, would allow U.K. demand to be met for
almost 50 years. The government has encouraged explorers through
lower tax rates as it tries to cut reliance on imports and spur
the economy amid declining reserves in the  North Sea .  “Fracking has become a national debate in Britain -- and
it’s one that I’m determined to win,” Cameron wrote in the
 Daily Telegraph  in August. “If we don’t back this technology,
we will miss a massive opportunity to help families with their
bills and make our country more competitive.”  A government  consultation paper  published last month
proposed limiting the number of landowners from whom it’s
necessary to seek permission before drilling. Only those
property holders directly affected by above-ground work would
need to give consent, according to the plans.  “The government wants to make it easier for the shale-gas
industry by easing planning rules and streamlining
regulations,” said Tony Bosworth, a climate and energy
campaigner at Friends of the Earth. “Work in these areas is an
essential part of our campaign and has helped slow down the
development of the industry.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nidaa Bakhsh in London at 
 nbakhsh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  