-- Fugitive CEO Shows Hungary-Croatia Energy Battle
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2013-10-16T22:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/fugitive-ceo-shows-hungary-croatia-energy-battle.html
After pushing to kick foreign energy
companies out of  Hungary , Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  is getting
a taste of his own medicine from neighboring  Croatia .  The affair features a Hungarian chief executive officer who
is  wanted  by Interpol and sheltered by his home country, a
Croatian bribery probe that put a former prime minister in jail,
a possible downgrade for Hungary’s largest refiner and a battle
over control of a $7.2-billion Croatian energy company that one
analyst calls a “gem.”  “This is where things can get dirty,” Andreas Goldthau,
an associate energy-policy professor at Central European
University in Budapest, said by phone yesterday. “Hungary and
Croatia will test the limits, given the prominence of the energy
sector. The message is, don’t mess with our national champion.”  The dispute comes amid Orban’s effort to buy out foreign-owned energy companies after winning a two-thirds parliamentary
majority in 2010. His goal is to extend government influence and
lower utility prices before elections, part of a return to state
control in some eastern European countries, according to  Candole
Partners , which specializes in regional energy. The losers may
be foreign investors who were courted after the fall of the Iron
Curtain more than two decades ago.  “Governments in central  Europe  increasingly want to
control their national champions and use them as political
instruments for various things, including keeping end prices low
for consumers,” said Guy Burrow, a Bucharest-based partner at
Candole Partners. “There’s definitely irony” for Hungary.  Arrest Warrant  Croatia issued an arrest warrant this month for Zsolt Hernadi, chairman and chief executive officer of Hungary’s Mol
Nyrt., in connection with authorities’ probe into Mol’s 2009
purchase of a stake in  INA  Industrija Nafte d.d. Orban’s
government responded by accusing Croatia of using methods
“unacceptable in the European Union” to intimidate Mol and to
retake control of INA.  The rift is a reversal from the generally warm relations
the two countries enjoyed dating back as far as 1091, when they
had a common  ruler . Hungary supported Croatia’s independence
from  Yugoslavia  in 1992 and its support helped persuade the EU
to accept Croatia as its 28th member on July 1.  Less than four months later, though, Hungary canceled a
planned trip by Foreign Minister Janos Martonyi to the Croatian
resort of Dubrovnik to protest the arrest warrant for Hernadi.  Mol shares  have dropped 8.8 percent, sliding 4.4 percent
yesterday alone, and those of Zagreb-based INA are down 4.2
percent since Croatian police announced the arrest warrant on
Oct. 1. INA accounts for about 36 percent of Mol’s oil and gas
production.  State Ownership  Standard & Poor’s  on Oct. 11 placed Mol’s BB+ long-term
rating on review for a downgrade. It said the conflict between
the company and Croatia’s government may lead to the reduction
or sale of Mol’s INA stake or the deterioration of the business
environment for Mol in Croatia.  Orban is defending Mol after his government bought E.ON
SE’s Hungarian gas business for $1.3 billion on Oct. 1 and as
the cabinet is in talks to buy  RWE AG (RWE) ’s stake in Budapest gas
company Fogaz. The cabinet plans to purchase as many as seven
 utility companies , control all gas storage facilities and make
the household energy industry non-profit and state-owned, Orban
 said  in a Sept. 23 state radio interview.  Elsewhere in eastern Europe, Slovakia’s government regained
control over Slovensky Plynarensky Priemysel AS, the state gas
company, in September after buying a minority stake from Czech
utility company Energeticky a Prumyslovy Holding AS. The deal
allowed the Slovak government to regain control over setting gas
prices for end users.  Extra Profit?  CEZ AS, the Prague-based utility company, almost lost its
license in  Bulgaria  this year as regulators probed the company’s
consumer pricing. High electricity bills were triggering popular
protests that later toppled the government. Albania revoked
CEZ’s license and seized its assets in January following
disputes over tariffs and taxes; CEZ has started arbitration.  “Greedy” energy companies make “extra profit” that
Orban’s government is now “returning to the people,” Mate
Kocsis, spokesman of Hungary’s ruling Fidesz party, said on
Sept. 17, according to the party’s  website .  Orban will have cut household energy prices this year by 20
percent when the second phase goes into effect Nov. 1. Facing
parliamentary elections in the second quarter of 2014, he has
made fighting consumer energy costs the central theme of his
campaign.  Treasuring, Defending  “We treasure it and if needed, we will defend it,” Orban
said of Mol on Oct. 15 in Tiszaujvaros, northeast of Budapest.
He joined the embattled Hernadi to show support on the occasion
of the expansion of Mol’s petrochemical unit. Hernadi, in his
first public appearance since the arrest warrant, said Mol
“always had problems and we always ended up solving them.”  Hungary battled to protect Mol from takeovers just as the
Budapest-based company was acquiring INA in Croatia.  In 2009, Mol fended off a hostile takeover attempt by
 Austria ’s  OMV AG (OMV) , which as a result sold its 21 percent stake in
Mol to  Russia ’s OAO Surgutneftegas. Mol then blocked Surgut from
exercising its  voting rights . Orban stepped into the dispute in
2010 by having the government buy Surgut’s stake for 1.9 billion
euros ($2.6 billion), making it Mol’s biggest shareholder.  “It’s the boomerang effect,” Peter Szentirmai, an energy
analyst at KBC Securities in Budapest, said by phone. “Croatia
is employing the sorts of tactics that Mol used against Surgut,
except now the victim is Mol and, via the company, the Hungarian
government.”  Premier Conviction  Croatia is investigating the contract that gave Mol
management rights in 2009, when Hernadi was already CEO, after a
court ruled the deal was the “product of corruption.” The case
led to the conviction of former Croatia Prime Minister Ivo Sanader for having taken a bribe. He received a 10-year sentence
and is appealing the verdict.  Mol denies wrongdoing. A Hungarian court rejected the
Croatian arrest warrant against Hernadi, saying local
prosecutors had already conducted an investigation into the deal
and found no evidence of criminal wrongdoing by Mol or its
executives.  Hernadi, who can’t travel outside of Hungary because the
arrest warrant for him applies across the EU, will stay as head
of the company, Mol said in a statement on Oct. 2. Mol declined
to comment on its intentions regarding INA in an Oct. 14 e-mail.  Mol  owns  49.1 percent of the company and the Croatian
government holds 44.84 percent. INA is a “gem” for Mol and a
cornerstone of its central European strategy, Szentirmai said.
INA also provides a gateway to the  Adriatic Sea  for Mol,
allowing the transport of liquefied natural gas and cutting
Hungary’s energy dependence on Russia.  Independent Investigation  Orban’s government asked Mol’s management to consider
selling its INA stake and suing for damages after Croatia issued
the arrest warrant for Hernadi, 52. Croatia’s government has
said the bribery investigation is being pursued by independent
law-enforcement authorities.  “We recommend to the Croatians that they consider -- just
like we usually do in Hungary -- to take these shares into state
hands and to settle” on the price “in a fair way,” Orban said
in an Oct. 4. radio interview.  Croatia’s government has denied reports that it’s seeking
to buy Mol’s INA stake. The Croatian cabinet is facing a budget
squeeze, with a forecast budget gap of 5.5 percent of economic
output next year. That would breach the EU’s 3 percent limit and
may trigger the bloc’s excessive-deficit procedure.  No Gambling  Croatia won’t “gamble with state finances” by entering
“unpredictable financial arrangements” that “harm the
budget,” Croatian Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  said on Oct.
4. At the same time, he rejected negotiating over Hernadi’s
arrest, saying that was for the independent judiciary to decide.  Mol’s INA stake is worth about $3 billion considering what
Mol has invested in the Croatian unit, according to Concorde
Ertekpapir Zrt, Hungary’s biggest broker. Yet it makes little
sense to sell as INA was the company “that eventually made it
possible for Mol to gain a foothold in the Balkans,” Concorde
analyst Attila Vago said in an Oct. 7 e-mail.  It would also be difficult for Mol to get the right price
as long as the standoff with the Croatian government continues,
Deutsche Bank AG analyst Tatiana Kapustina said by phone.  “Mol will try to exit and the question now is on what
terms the company will be able to exit,” Moscow-based Kapustina
said. “It’s going to be quite challenging to ask a buyer to pay
a high price for a relatively troubled asset.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  