-- General Catalyst Said to Seek $600 Million for New Fund
-- B y   S a b r i n a   W i l l m e r
-- 2013-10-16T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/general-catalyst-said-to-seek-600-million-for-new-fund.html
General Catalyst Partners, the
venture-capital firm co-founded by Joel Cutler, is targeting
$600 million for its next fund that will invest in technology
companies, said two people familiar with the situation.  General Catalyst Group VII LP is seeking more capital than
the firm’s prior vehicle, which raised $500 million in December
2011. The new fund will stick to the same kind of deals,
investing in consumer Internet, social media and other
technology businesses, said one of the people, who asked not to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  The firm, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , is entering a
competitive fundraising market as private-equity investors
reduce the number of managers they use in an effort to improve
returns. General Catalyst, which makes both early-stage and
growth investments, expects a December close for the fund,
according to one of the people.  Michelle Daubar, a spokeswoman for the firm, didn’t respond
to a phone call and e-mailed request for comment.  Since its founding in 1999, the firm has raised six funds
with a total of $2.2 billion in committed capital. It has
invested in companies including ProfitLogic Inc., which was sold
to Oracle Corp. in 2005; GroupMe Inc., which was bought by Skype
Technologies SA; and Jumptap Inc., which is being purchased by
Millennial Media Inc. in a deal announced in August.  Kayak Software  General Catalyst backed travel website operator Kayak
Software Corp., which raised more than it sought in its July
2012 initial public offering and was acquired this May by
Priceline.com Inc. for about $1.8 billion. General Catalyst
first invested in Norwalk, Connecticut-based Kayak from its
third fund in 2004, with additional investments from its fifth
fund and a supplemental vehicle in 2007.  Last year, the firm saw some of its companies go public,
including Brightcove Inc., a provider of cloud-based video
hosting and publishing services, and Demandware Inc., which
offers an e-commerce platform. General Catalyst-backed Mascoma
Corp., a biofuel company, withdrew its registration for a
planned IPO earlier this year.  Fund VI was generating a value multiple of 0.85 as of the
end of 2012, according to data from New Jersey Division of
Investment, an investor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sabrina Willmer in  New York  at 
 swillmer2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Rossa at 
 jrossa@bloomberg.net  