-- German Power-Price Swings Threaten Growth Engine: Energy Markets
-- B y   R a c h e l   M o r i s o n   a n d   J u l i a   M e n g e w e i n
-- 2013-10-16T12:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/german-power-price-swings-threaten-growth-engine-energy-markets.html
The lack of clarity on  Germany ’s
energy policy is creating the most volatile power prices in
seven months, boosting costs for industry in  Europe ’s largest
economy.  The 30-day historical  volatility  in the price of power for
2014 more than doubled in the past six weeks to the highest
since March 4, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Prices are being
whipsawed because  Chancellor Angela Merkel , re-elected almost a
month ago, has yet to give details on her pledge to amend the
nation’s $750 billion solar and wind power program, according to
CF Partners U.K. LLP, a London-based  investment company  focused
on  renewable energy  and commodities.  Price swings in Europe’s biggest power market, exacerbated
by plunging fuel and carbon costs, are making it harder for
industrial users to plan purchases. The volatility is boosting
total costs and hindering investment in the $3.4 trillion
economy, according to Maik Neubauer, a  management consultant 
specializing in utilities and commodity markets and the former
chief operating officer of the European Energy Exchange AG.  “Our problem right now is that we would like to buy our
power mid-term, so for the next four to six quarters, but we
prefer not to right now because of the high volatility in the
market,” said Munich-based Christian Essers, the director of
energy procurement at  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) , Europe’s largest maker
of polysilicon used in solar panels. “If volatility is higher
for longer-term products, then we usually pay more for securing
future costs.”  Coal Costs  The 2014 contract dropped 0.9 percent this month after
posting its first quarterly gain for 2 1/2 years in the three
months through September, broker data compiled by Bloomberg
show. It traded at 37.85 euros ($51.32) a megawatt-hour at 2:12
p.m. Berlin time. Its 30-day volatility rose as high as 16
percent on Oct. 10, from less than 7 percent at the end of
August.  German wholesale electricity prices retreated as the cost
of hard coal, used to generate 19 percent of the nation’s power,
dropped 12 percent in the past six months to the lowest level
since 2009, broker data show. The cost of carbon permits to emit
a ton of  greenhouse gases  fell 16 percent since Merkel’s victory
Sept. 22, to a five-week low of 4.51 euros on ICE Futures Europe
on Oct. 14. The contract traded at 5.07 euros today.  “For a long time power has been a one-way trade with
people expecting it to decrease gradually,” said Roland Vetter,
the head of research at CF Partners. “The bet has become less
clear with more talk about capacity closures, uncertainty about
Merkel’s energy policy and slumping fuel costs making prices
more volatile.”  Renewable Energy  Merkel has said changing the renewable-energy law will be
her first priority after securing a third term. Her plan to
source at least 35 percent of the nation’s power from mainly
solar and wind by 2020, compared with 23 percent now, has pushed
residential bills to more than twice the amount that utilities
pay to deliver the electricity, as taxes and charges that
subsidize the plan inflate prices, according to  BDEW , a Berlin-based lobby group.  The chancellor was left with the Social Democrats as her
sole potential governing parter after the Greens dropped out of
coalition talks citing irreconcilable differences over  tax
policy .  Talks Ending  Talks between Merkel’s bloc and the Green party broke down
last night amid differences over energy and tax policies,
Claudia Roth, the Greens co-leader, said on Germany’s ZDF state
television. “On the specifics of energy, the minimum wage and a
citizen’s insurance, there was no movement and that’s why we
said it’s no basis for us” to continue talks to form a
government, she said.  The Social Democrats want to streamline efforts to reform
the energy law, make the switch to renewables more cost-efficient and improve the EU emissions trading system, its
 election manifesto  said.  “A coalition between CDU/CSU and SPD has already been the
most likely option, and now it seems inevitable,” Patrick Hummel, Zurich-based analyst at  UBS AG (UBSN) , said today in an e-mailed note.  “We think this is the less bad scenario for utilities,
even though there is nothing to get excited about,” he said.  The current government is split on a decision to delay the
sale of some  EU carbon permits , known as backloading. CDU’s
Environment Minister Peter Altmaier supports the plan. Economy
Minister Philipp Roesler from the FDP, that will drop out of
parliament after winning less than five percent of the votes in
the election, opposes the measure.  Daily Swings  The new government to come up with a swift change of the
energy market, Hummel said.  “We believe the only mild positive for clean generators,
such as  E.ON SE (EOAN) ,  Verbund AG (VER)  or  Fortum OYJ (FUM1V) , is the likely support
to the carbon backloading,” he said.  Daily swings in the 2014 power contract averaged 1 percent
this month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the
highest for the period since 2008, when the benchmark price rose
or fell an average of 2 percent a day as the bankruptcy of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. roiled markets.  German power’s 30-day volatility measure is the second-highest in Europe’s three biggest electricity markets. Price
swings in the Nordic region peaked at 17 percent on Oct. 10,
while they rose to 12 percent in  France  on the same day,
according to broker data compiled by Bloomberg.  Longest Recession  “Large companies have to deal with larger capital and
margin requirements in their risk management if volatility
increases,” said Neubauer, who is based in Hamburg. “This
means fewer investments in other areas which will have a direct
impact on demand for goods and services in other industries,”
he said.  Germany’s  economy  expanded 0.7 percent in second quarter,
after stagnating in the first three months of the year, as the
17-nation euro area emerged from its longest-ever recession. The
nation will expand 1.8 percent next year, from 0.5 percent in
2013, according to the mean of 57 economist estimates compiled
by Bloomberg.  Trading on EEX reached a record last month, with traders
buying and selling futures representing 178 terawatt-hours of
power, the Leipzig, Germany-based exchange said  Oct 7 . Germany
consumed 606 terawatt-hours of power in 2012. Trading beat the
previous record set in March 2011, when prices surged on
Merkel’s decision to shutter reactors following  Japan ’s
Fukushima nuclear disaster.  “High volatility is good for us traders, because it means
you can make more money,” said Min-Soo Park, an electricity
trader at MVV Trading GmbH in Mannheim, Germany. “If you want
to generate 10 or 15 euro cents on a contract that moves only 20
cents, then that can be difficult. But with a bigger price move,
it’s easier to earn money on the market.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rachel Morison in London at 
 rmorison@bloomberg.net ;
Julia Mengewein in Frankfurt at 
 jmengewein@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  