-- German Bond Yields in Narrowest 2013 Range on U.S. Budget Talks
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-16T12:40:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/german-bonds-are-little-changed-before-euro-area-inflation-data.html
Germany ’s 10-year bond yields were
in their narrowest range this year as investors refrained from
taking positions while U.S. lawmakers struggled to end a 16-day
partial government shutdown and avert a default.  An auction of German two-year notes attracted the biggest
demand since 2011 as investors sought  Europe ’s safest assets.
Leaders in the Senate are trying to lock down an agreement to
end the fiscal impasse, stepping in after House Republicans’
last-minute plan to avert a U.S. government default as early as
tomorrow collapsed. Investors may turn to European assets as the
standoff erodes the reserve status of America’s debt, according
to Pacific Investment Management Co.  “Investors are taking a wait and see stance until they get
a clearer picture of where things are heading,” said  John Stopford , head of fixed-income at Investec Asset Management Ltd.
in  London . “I still think at this point there are reasons for
optimism that a deal will be reached.”  Benchmark German 10-year bund yields were little changed at
1.92 percent as of 1:35 p.m. London time, the highest since
Sept. 24. The price of the 2 percent security due in August 2023
was at 100.70.  The difference between today’s low and high yield was 1.8
basis points, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That
compares with an average 5.7 basis points this year. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  Italy ’s 10-year yield was little changed at 4.25 percent.
The rate on similar-maturity Spanish bonds was at 4.30 percent.  Emerging Accord  The emerging Senate accord may come today, though passage
in the Republican-led House is far from assured and Fitch
Ratings yesterday placed the U.S.’s AAA credit rating on a
negative watch. The framework is being negotiated by Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell .
The U.S. borrowing authority is due to lapse tomorrow.  Germany sold 4.24 billion euros of notes maturing in
September 2015 at an average yield of 0.19 percent, attracting
bids equivalent to 2.25 times the amount allotted. That’s the
highest bid-to-cover ratio since a sale in July 2011. Germany
last auctioned two-year securities on Sept. 18 at 0.22 percent.  “The next biggest liquid markets in the world are here in
Europe, so ultimately it’s going to be relatively beneficial for
European assets, be it equities or fixed income,”  Andrew Bosomworth , managing director at Pimco in Munich, said in an
interview with Anna Edwards and  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown.”  Inflation Expectations  Consumer prices in the 17 countries that share the euro
rose an annual 1.1 percent after a 1.3 percent increase in
August, the European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg
said. That’s in line with Eurostat’s preliminary estimate on
Sept. 30. The reading also matched the median of estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Germany’s 10-year  break-even rate  was little changed at
1.65 percentage points, compared with the 2013 average of 1.70
percentage points. The rate, a market gauge of inflation
expectations, is derived from the yield difference between bunds
and index-linked securities.  Irish bonds gained as the government unveiled a budget that
showed it decided to ease the pace of fiscal consolidation for
next year to foster growth. The structural consolidation package
to be implemented was revised to 2.5 billion euros instead of
3.1 billion euros originally planned.  Ireland’s 10-year yield dropped four basis points to 3.66
percent. The  extra yield  investors demand for holding the Irish
bonds instead of similar-maturity German bunds shrank five basis
points to 173 basis points. The spread was at 210 basis points
at the end of September.  German bonds lost 2.3 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Spanish securities
returned 9.3 percent and Italy’s gained 5.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  