-- German SPD Pressures Schaeuble to Resist Bank Recapitalization
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2013-10-16T14:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/german-spd-pressures-schaeuble-to-resist-bank-recapitalization.html
Germany ’s Social Democrats, the
prospective future coalition partner of  Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats, are putting pressure on the
government to toughen resistance to direct recapitalization of
banks from the euro region bailout fund.  Speaking to reporters in Luxembourg yesterday, Finance
Minister Wolfgang Schaeuble said “a lot of work convincing
certain people in Berlin” will be needed to get legal changes
quickly that would pave the way for the direct recapitalization
of lenders through the area’s financial backstop, the European
Stability Mechanism.  “Schaeuble is right in making clear that direct bank
recapitalization would require a change of law,” Joachim Poss,
the Social Democrats’ parliamentary finance spokesman, said by
telephone. “The SPD’s position is very clear: we don’t support
direct ESM aid for banks.”  Merkel, whose Christian Democratic bloc won Sept. 22
elections, may be left with the Social Democrats as her sole
potential governing partner after the Greens dropped out of
coalition talks in the early hours today, citing irreconcilable
differences over tax policy.  “There’s an unmistakable hardening in Schaeuble’s
language,”  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at  ING Groep NV (INGA)  in
Brussels, said today in a phone interview. “We’re going to hear
louder SPD drum-beating against direct bank recaps in the
coalition talks and even if Schaeuble, the CDU and the SPD are
fundamentally on the same page, he’s got to keep hold of the
high ground in the talks.”  Coalition Talks  Merkel has said she wants to pick a party for formal
coalition talks before the first post-election session of
Germany’s lower house on Oct. 22. Before then, on Oct. 20, the
SPD will hold a congress that may approve or reject
negotiations.  EU leaders last year sought to empower the ESM to lend
directly to banks in a bid to break the link between sovereign
debt and financial-industry struggles. While the direct-aid tool
remains in development, leaders now are emphasizing national
responsibility for stabilizing banks that need help.  “Schaeuble has just corrected a mistake of Merkel’s, when
she agreed at a council meeting last year to direct bank
recapitalization,” Poss said. “We will certainly bring this
issue up in any coalition talks.” Merkel’s Christian Democrats
and the SPD resume negotiations at 1 p.m. local time in Berlin
tomorrow.  Euro region finance ministers in June agreed that the ESM
would have 60 billion euros ($81 billion) available for the
direct recapitalization of banks. Schaeuble then said
governments must avoid “raising false expectations” on the
availability of such aid.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  