-- German Yields Climb to 3-Week High as U.S. Lawmakers Seek Deal
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2013-10-16T15:48:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/german-yields-reach-three-week-high-as-u-s-lawmakers-seek-deal.html
Germany ’s  government bonds  fell,
pushing 10-year yields to the highest level in three weeks, as
speculation that U.S. lawmakers will reach agreement on raising
the nation’s debt limit damped demand for the safest assets.  Benchmark German bunds dropped for a second day and
Finland’s AAA rated securities declined for a seventh session as
House Speaker  John Boehner  was said to be ready to allow a vote
on a Senate agreement to end the fiscal impasse and extend U.S.
borrowing authority. Irish bonds rose as the government
yesterday unveiled a budget that showed it decided to ease the
pace of fiscal consolidation for next year to foster growth.  “The market appears to remain sanguine that a deal will be
reached prior to any breach,” said  Nick Stamenkovic , a fixed-income strategist at RIA Capital Markets Ltd. in Edinburgh
“That reduced demand for safety. Gains in U.S. stock futures
also put a bit of pressure on government bonds.”  The German 10-year yield rose two basis points, or 0.02
percentage point, to 1.93 percent at 4:48 p.m. in  London  after
reaching 1.94 percent, the highest level since Sept. 23. The 2
percent security due in August 2023 fell 0.14, or 1.40 euros per
1,000-euro ($1,349) face amount, to 100.625.  The agreement being negotiated by Senate Majority Leader
 Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  would fund the
U.S. government through Jan. 15, 2014, and suspend the debt
limit until Feb. 7. The U.S. borrowing authority is due to lapse
tomorrow. The emerging Senate accord may be announced as early
as today, after Fitch Ratings yesterday placed the U.S.’s AAA
credit rating on a negative watch.  ‘Timely Manner’  “The speaker will bring that agreement to the House floor
in a very timely manner,” Representative  Kevin Brady  of  Texas ,
a senior House Republican, said on Bloomberg Television today.
He said he thinks the measure would pass. Senate leaders stepped
in after House Republicans’ last-minute plan to avert a U.S.
default collapsed.  Finland’s  10-year yield  climbed two basis points to 2.17
percent and that of the Netherlands, also rated AAA, increased
one basis point to 2.29 percent.  Ireland’s 10-year yield dropped five basis points to 3.64
percent. The extra yield investors demand to hold the securities
instead of similar-maturity German bunds shrank seven basis
points to 171 basis points. The spread was at 210 basis points
at the end of September.  Irish Budget  Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  yesterday sketched
out 2.5 billion euros of tax increases and plans to narrow the
fiscal deficit to 4.8 percent of gross domestic product in 2014
from 7.3 percent this year. The government is reducing the 3.1
billion euros of adjustments it had originally outlined for next
year, trying to buttress signs of a recovery.  Italy’s 10-year yield was little changed at 4.25 percent.
The rate on similar-maturity Spanish bonds was also little
changed, at 4.30 percent.  Investors may turn to European assets as the U.S. standoff
erodes the reserve status of America’s debt, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.  “The next biggest liquid markets in the world are here in
Europe, so ultimately it’s going to be relatively beneficial for
European assets, be it equities or fixed income,”  Andrew Bosomworth , managing director at Pimco in Munich, said in an
interview with Anna Edwards and  Mark Barton  on Bloomberg
Television’s “Countdown.”  Germany sold 4.24 billion euros of two-year notes today at
an average yield of 0.19 percent, attracting bids equivalent to
2.25 times the amount allotted. That’s the highest bid-to-cover
ratio since a sale in July 2011. Germany last auctioned two-year
securities on Sept. 18 at 0.22 percent.  German bonds lost 2.3 percent this year through yesterday,
according to Bloomberg World Bond Indexes. Finnish securities
dropped 2.3 percent and Dutch bonds fell 2.6 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story: Lukanyo Mnyanda in
Edinburgh at   lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Dobson  at 
 pdobson2@bloomberg.net  