-- Giants Sign Ex-Brown Peyton Hillis After Running-Back Injuries
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2013-10-16T18:43:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/giants-sign-ex-brown-peyton-hillis-after-running-back-injuries.html
The  New York  Giants signed running
back Peyton Hillis after injuries that left them with one
healthy rusher in practice earlier this week.  Hillis, who ran for 1,177 yards and 11 touchdowns with the
Cleveland Browns in 2010, hasn’t played in the National Football
League since being cut by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers during the
preseason. The 6-foot-1, 240-pounder appeared in 13 games with
the Kansas City Chiefs last season, rushing for 309 yards and a
touchdown while averaging 3.6 yards per carry.  Hillis, 27, said he wants to be able to learn enough of the
offense to play Oct. 21, when the 0-6 Giants host the Minnesota
Vikings at MetLife Stadium in East Rutherford, New Jersey.  “A lot of the plays are the same,” Hillis said in a
statement from the Giants. “It’s just different terminology. As
long as you get the terminology down, you’ll be fine.”  The Giants are without starting running back David Wilson
because of a neck injury and Brandon Jacobs, who signed with the
team last month, has been nursing an injured hamstring since
rushing for 106 yards and two touchdowns in last week’s loss to
the Chicago Bears.  The Giants waived running back Da’Rel Scott yesterday after
he injured a hamstring in the fourth quarter against the Bears
and will be without Andre Brown until at least Week 10 with a
broken left leg. Rookie Michael Cox was the Giants’ only healthy
running back at practice two days ago.  Hillis was a seventh-round draft pick and has rushed for
2,470 yards and 21 touchdowns in six seasons with the Chiefs,
Browns and Denver Broncos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  