-- GM Chief With Eye on Tesla Announces Natural-Gas-Powered Impala
-- B y   T i m   H i g g i n s
-- 2013-10-16T17:44:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/gm-chief-with-eye-on-tesla-announces-natural-gas-powered-impala.html
General Motors Co. (GM)  will begin
selling a Chevrolet Impala next year that can seamlessly switch
between compressed- natural gas  and gasoline as the automaker
looks to create a bigger market for alternative-fueled vehicles.  It’s a move similar to GM’s strategy with the Chevrolet
Volt, a plug-in hybrid sedan that can go about 40 miles (64
kilometers) on electricity before a gasoline engine engages and
powers a generator to recharge the battery.  “This approach takes range anxiety completely off the
table by offering 150 miles of range using CNG and an additional
350 miles on gasoline,” Chief Executive Officer Dan Akerson
said in prepared remarks that he’s scheduled to deliver today in
Washington D.C. “There will be nothing like it on the road --
literally.”  GM, based in  Detroit , is trying to improve its image as a
maker of fuel-efficient vehicles to catch up with competitors
such as  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , with its mass-market Prius hybrid,
and  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  with its luxury electric cars. Tesla, and
its CEO, Elon Musk, are a concern for Akerson, who sees the
electric-car maker as a potentially disruptive force in the  auto
industry .  The bi-fuel Impala will go on sale next year as a 2015
model, according to an e-mailed GM statement. Akerson said in
the speech that most deliveries will be to commercial and
government fleets “and selling 750 to 1,000 units in the first
model year would be a home run.”  CNG vehicles are part of a broader approach by GM to boost
 fuel efficiency  and meet tougher U.S. mileage requirements. GM
said improvements, such as alternative fuels and lighter
materials, made to its 2011 to 2017 model year vehicles will
save 12 billion gallons (45.4 billion liters) of gasoline in the
U.S.  No ‘Moonshot’  “We know that U.S. energy security won’t come from a one-off moonshot,” Akerson said. “It will flow from our systematic
investment in technology and innovation, our drive to get more
from existing energy sources and renewables, our commitment to
conservation, and it will be assured by fully and safely
exploiting our shale gas reserves.”  GM’s electric vehicles face increased competition from
Tesla. Akerson, a former telecommunication executive, has
assigned a small team to study the upstart electric-car maker
and how it might threaten the 105-year-old automaker’s business,
Steve Girsky, GM vice chairman, said in July during an interview
at Bloomberg headquarters in  New York .  Akerson, in telling an anecdote about how he bought a Volt
for his family, also took a jab at Tesla.  Charging Stations  “Over 10,000 miles, we have only spent about $75 on
gasoline,” he said. “We take mostly short trips. But I like
knowing that I can drive a Volt from Detroit to  Palo Alto 
without having to play the EV-version of connect the dots.”  Tesla, based in Palo Alto,  California , said in May that it
was expanding its fast-charging stations across the country to
allow owners of its plug-in electric cars to drive coast-to-coast.  Volt is GM’s flagship car in its efforts to have about
500,000 vehicles on the road by 2017 with some form of
electrification. The model’s sales have been below the company’s
initial projections and GM announced on Aug. 6 that it’s
lowering the starting price of the 2014 model by $5,000 to
compete against the less-expensive and better-selling Toyota
Prius and  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Leaf electric car.  GM last week  said  a Cadillac version of the Volt called ELR
will go on sale in January in major U.S. cities at the starting
price of $75,995. That doesn’t include federal tax credits of as
much as $7,500.  Natural Gas  GM last year began selling pickups that run on both
gasoline and CNG aimed at fleet customers. Around the time of
the pickup announcement, Joyce Mattman, director of GM
commercial product and specialty vehicles, said such a truck
could save $6,000 to $10,000 in fuel costs over a three-year
period because CNG is cheaper than gasoline.  While there are more than 168,000 gas stations in the U.S.,
there are about 1,200 CNG fueling stations with only about half
of them open to the public, Akerson said.  “To give the CNG infrastructure time to play catch up, we
got creative and engineered two energy reservoirs for the
Impala, just as we did for the Volt,” Akerson said. He spoke at
an  event  marking the 40th anniversary of the OPEC oil embargo
sponsored by  Securing America’s Future Energy , a nonpartisan
group of political, business and military leaders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Higgins in Washington at 
 thiggins21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  