-- Gold Slumping to Four-Year Low for Best Forecasters: Commodities
-- B y   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2013-10-17T13:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/gold-slumping-to-four-year-low-for-best-forecasters-commodities.html
Gold will drop in each of the next
four quarters and reach a four-year low as reduced U.S. stimulus
in response to faster economic growth curbs demand for bullion
as a haven, the most accurate forecasters said.  The metal will decline to an average of $1,175 an ounce in
the third quarter next year, or 11 percent less than now,
according to the median of estimates from the 10 most-accurate
precious metals analysts tracked by Bloomberg over the past two
years. Prices were last at that level in 2010.  The forecasts underscore how some investors lost faith in
gold as a store of value, driving prices to their first annual
loss in 13 years. More than $63 billion was erased from the
value of gold-backed funds this year, spurring losses for
billionaire hedge-fund manager  John Paulson , and mining
companies announced at least $26 billion of writedowns. Bullion
jumped today after Dagong Global Credit Rating Co. cut its U.S.
credit rating and on speculation the Federal Reserve will
postpone slowing stimulus.  “Desire to buy gold as a hedge against the consequences of
monetary policy has diminished,” said  Tom Kendall , an analyst
at Credit Suisse Group AG in  London  whose precious-metals
forecasts were the second most-accurate over the past two years.
“When you’ve got other asset classes, equities in particular,
doing so well, then it’s hard to divert investments out of them
and into something like gold, which is falling.”  Bear Market  The metal slid 22 percent to $1,314.85 in London this year
after tumbling into a  bear market  in April. It’s now 32 percent
below the record $1,921.15 set in September 2011. The Standard &
Poor’s GSCI gauge of 24 commodities fell 1.4 percent since the
start of January, the MSCI All-Country World Index of equities
advanced 15 percent and the Bloomberg U.S. Treasury Bond Index
lost 2.5 percent.  Gold retreated this month even during the U.S. government
shutdown, which began Oct. 1. As U.S. lawmakers last week
debated extending an Oct. 17 deadline on the government’s
borrowing authority, bullion still fell the most in a month,
reflecting weakening demand for the metal as a hedge against
financial turmoil. Congress voted yesterday to end the impasse,
with bullion losing as much as 0.2 percent.  While the  Federal Reserve  refrained from trimming stimulus
in September, most policy makers said the central bank was
likely to taper this year, according to minutes of the meeting
released Oct. 9. U.S. economic growth will accelerate to 2.6
percent in 2014, from 1.6 percent this year, according to the
mean of 90 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Goldman Sachs  Bullion will average $1,250 this quarter, dropping to
$1,225 in the first three months of 2014 and $1,195 in the
following period, the Bloomberg survey showed. The most-accurate
list includes the top five overall forecasters of precious
metals, and the remaining five are made up of the best analysts
for gold, silver, platinum and palladium individually.  Jeffrey Currie , Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s head of
commodities research who correctly forecast this year’s rout,
said Oct. 8 that gold is a “slam dunk” sell for next year
because the  U.S. economy  will strengthen after lawmakers resolve
the stalemates over the budget and debt ceiling. Goldman expects
prices to be at $1,050 at the end of 2014.  Gold rose 70 percent from December 2008 to June 2011 as the
Fed pumped more than $2 trillion into the financial system,
increasing concern about currency debasement and inflation.
Consumer-price gains averaged 2.2 percent the past two years,
compared with a 10-year average of 2.4 percent. The  S&P 500
index  is trading 0.5 percent below the record set Sept. 19.  Monetary Fund  There are still risks the global recovery will be weaker
than expected, with the  International Monetary Fund  cutting its
2014 growth outlook on Oct. 8 to 3.6 percent from 3.8 percent.
 China  will expand 7.4 percent next year, the least since 1990,
and the 17-nation euro area will grow 1 percent after
contracting since the start of 2012, according to economist
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Demand for physical gold may also curb the decline in
prices anticipated in the Bloomberg survey. The metal jumped as
much as 21 percent in two months after reaching a 34-month low
of $1,180.50 on June 28 as Asian demand for jewelry, bars and
coins surged. Global sales of bullion bars and coins gained 78
percent to a record in the second quarter, according to the
London-based World Gold Council.  “If we saw any big downside moves then you would get a
surge in Chinese buying,” said  David Wilson , an analyst at
Citigroup Inc. in London. “People are buying gold not just for
investment. The jewelry market is growing rapidly and I suspect
people will bargain hunt.”  Central Banks  Consumer purchases will reach as much as 1,000 tons in
India and China this year, the World Gold Council says. That
would exceed China’s record of 778.6 tons in 2011 and approach
India’s all-time high of 1,006.5 tons in 2010.  The flow of metal from west to east led Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG and UBS AG to open
vaults in  Asia  this year. Central banks also are storing more
metal, adding 535 tons to reserves last year, the most since
1964. They may buy another 350 tons in 2013, the World Gold
Council predicts.  That’s being offset by the sale of bullion from exchange-traded products, with investors selling 731 tons valued at $30
billion this year, data compiled by Bloomberg show. ETP assets
reached 1,900.8 tons yesterday, the lowest since May 2010.
Paulson, the biggest investor in the SPDR Gold Trust, the
largest gold ETP, cut his stake in the product by 53 percent in
the second quarter, a government filing showed.  Mining Companies  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) , the biggest producer, said Aug. 1 it
may sell, close or curb output at 12 mines from  Peru  to  Papua
New Guinea . The Toronto-based miner announced $8.7 billion of
writedowns in the second quarter and cut its dividend by 75
percent after prices plunged. Its  shares  fell 50 percent in  New
York  trading this year.  The rout in gold may spur mining companies to resume
selling future output to lock in returns, reversing a decade-long trend that added demand as producers closed out positions.
Hedging will rise to 35 tons in 2014 from 20 tons this year,
Barclays Plc predicts.  The industry will “slowly return” to forward sales,
 Charles Carter , an executive vice president at AngloGold Ashanti
Ltd., said at a conference in  Rome  on Sept. 30. The
Johannesburg-based company is the third-biggest producer.  “A lot of gold has been held for speculative purposes,
investment and a store of value, and that’s less of a reason
going forward,” said  Robin Bhar , an analyst at Societe Generale
SA in London and the most accurate precious-metals forecaster
over the past two years. “If you sell your gold and put your
money into equities, other fixed-income assets or real estate,
you’re going to show a return. The gold  bull market  is
definitely over.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicholas Larkin in London at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  