-- Great Portland Wins Approval for $770 Million Project
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2013-10-16T13:33:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/great-portland-wins-approval-for-770-million-project.html
Great Portland Estates Plc (GPOR)  won
local-government approval for what could be its most profitable
project: a plan to replace a mail-sorting center near  London ’s
Oxford Street with homes and office buildings.  Great  Portland , the developer focused on London’s West End,
plans to build 162 apartments and 33,000 square meters (355,000
square feet) of workspace at the Rathbone Place site. The
Westminster Council voted in favor of the project yesterday.  The 483 million-pound ($770 million) development may
generate a profit of 97.5 million pounds, JPMorgan Chase & Co.
analysts including Tim Leckie wrote in an Oct. 8 note to
clients. It would be the London-based real estate investment
trust’s biggest gain from a development, based on estimated
future profits, Leckie said in an e-mail.  Developers have been buying sites near the Tottenham Court
Road underground station, betting a high-speed rail line
connecting  Heathrow Airport  to the Canary Wharf financial
district across central London will boost values when it opens
there in 2018.  Rising Rents  Office rents in London’s Fitzrovia district rose 8.3
percent to an average of 65 pounds a square foot in the year
through June, according to Knight Frank LLP. In Mayfair and St.
James’s, home to  Europe ’s largest concentration of  hedge funds ,
rents average 95 pounds a square foot, unchanged from a year
earlier.  Great Portland’s portfolio will “outperform the wider
market as robust tenant demand (led by the TMT sector) for its
product, coupled with restricted supply, drives further rental
growth,” Liberum Capital analysts including Alison Watson wrote
in a note to clients today. “Investor demand continues to
outstrip supply and we expect this to maintain yields.”
 Liberum has a buy rating on the stock.  Great Portland paid 120 million pounds for the 2.3-acre (1-hectare) site in 2011.  Royal Mail Plc (RMG)  is entitled to a stake in
the profits from the project, according to a statement by the
developer at the time. Great Portland will start work on
Rathbone Place next year and expects to be finished in 2016,
according to today’s statement.  “We are delighted to have received support for our scheme
from Westminster, with whom we have worked very closely over the
last two years,” Neil Thompson, a Great Portland director, said
in a statement.  The developer bought an additional location between
Rathbone Place and Oxford Street, the U.K.’s busiest shopping
thoroughfare, from  Land Securities Group Plc (LAND)  for 90 million
pounds in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in London at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Blackman at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net  