-- IBM Shares Tumble After Sixth Quarterly Sales Decline
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2013-10-17T14:06:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/ibm-sales-fall-for-sixth-straight-quarter-as-hardware-slumps.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , the largest computer-services provider, dropped the most
since April after sales fell for the sixth straight quarter and
its hardware business posted a loss.  Revenue fell 4 percent to $23.7 billion in the third
quarter, the Armonk, New York-based company said in a statement 
after trading closed yesterday. That was $1 billion less than 
analysts had estimated, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  IBM’s shift to higher-margin software and services has
failed to make up for a slump in sales of servers and other
 computer hardware . Even the company’s traditional growth markets
-- developing economies overseas, including  China  -- aren’t
helping prop up sales. IBM posted the first revenue decrease in
those markets in its history last quarter.  “IBM has been challenged with changing the model on the
hardware front, and now the growth markets are a surprise
drop,” said Chris Ambrose, an  analyst  at Gartner Inc. While
pursuing higher-margin markets is the right move, “they still
have to show revenue growth at some point,” he said.  IBM shares fell as much as 7.6 percent to $172.57, the
biggest intraday decline in six months. The stock, which had
already dropped 2.5 percent this year through yesterday, is now
trading at its lowest price in more than two years.  Hardware Losses  The company lost $713 million in its hardware business in
the first nine months of this year, compared with $253 million
in profit in the year-earlier period. Revenue from growth
markets shrank 9 percent last quarter. Chinese sales tumbled
more than 20 percent as the country worked on a plan for
economic policy, Chief Financial Officer Mark Loughridge said on
a conference call.  To make up for the slowdown, the company is looking to
cloud computing -- the delivery of software and services online
-- and it divulged revenue from that market for the first time
yesterday. IBM said it generated more than $1 billion in revenue
from cloud products and services in the quarter. The disclosure
follows an investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission into the finances surrounding IBM’s cloud business.  Net income  rose 5.7 percent to $4 billion, or $3.68 a
share, from $3.8 billion, or $3.33, a year earlier. Excluding
some items, earnings were $3.99 a share in the period, topping
the $3.96 predicted by analysts. That number was helped by a
lower-than-anticipated  tax rate  of 17 percent, down 7.7 points
from a year ago. The company got a boost from foreign tax audits
and the divestiture of a retail store business.  Tax Advantage  The more favorable tax rate contributed 30 cents to
earnings,  David Grossman , an analyst with Stifel Nicolaus & Co.,
said in a note to investors today.  “IBM has always viewed the tax rate as an operational
lever,” he said.  The company is working to rid itself of commodity products,
shifting instead toward software-focused businesses that
generate higher profit margins. IBM yesterday reiterated its
goal of reaching $20 a share in earnings by 2015, up from $15.25
last year.  IBM agreed to sell off its customer-service unit to  Synnex
Corp. (SNX)  for $505 million in September. It’s also spending more
than $800 million to buy Trusteer Inc., a software security
company, people familiar with the deal said in August.  In July, IBM acquired SoftLayer Technologies Inc., a cloud-computing storage provider that will help it compete with
Amazon.com Inc. It paid almost $2 billion this year for the
Dallas-based company, said a person with knowledge of the
transaction.  Management Shakeup  IBM’s hardware business continued to drag the company down,
with revenue declining 17 percent in the third quarter. Chief
Executive Officer Ginni Rometty shook up the management of the
division in April, replacing Rod Adkins with Tom Rosamilia, who
had been overseeing corporate strategy.  “We are taking action to improve execution in our growth
markets unit and in the elements of our hardware businesses that
are under performing,” Rometty said in yesterday’s statement.  The company had also been trying to sell parts of its
server division to  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , before discussions broke
down in early May due to disagreements over price, people
familiar with the matter said at the time.  In the second quarter, IBM spent $1 billion to restructure
its workforce, cutting more than 3,300 jobs in the U.S. and
 Canada  alone, according to Alliance@IBM, an employee group.
Loughridge, the company’s finance chief, said earlier this year
that divestitures will make up for that expense.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in  New York  at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  