-- Libor E-Mails, Fannie-Freddie Survival, Finra: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2013-10-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/libor-e-mails-fannie-freddie-survival-finra-compliance.html
A  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  employee said
clients never like to know how they were “screwed” in an e-mail concerning a 2007 swap deal that is at the center of a U.K.
court fight over whether banks can be sued for manipulation of
benchmark  interest rates .  The e-mail was disclosed in court documents on the first
day of an appeal hearing in London where Indian property firm
 Unitech Ltd. (UT)  is seeking to invalidate an interest-rate swap and
loans with Deutsche Bank because of alleged rigging of the
London interbank offered rate. The case is being heard with a
similar case Guardian Care Homes filed against  Barclays Plc. (BARC)   “No one likes to know he got screwed,” Sanjay Agarwal,
Deutsche Bank’s Mumbai-based head of Indian corporate finance,
said in a 2007 e-mail referring to the swap deal that was cited
in Unitech’s court documents.  Unitech and Guardian say they wouldn’t have signed the swap
deals with the banks if they had known about Libor-related
misconduct, which became a global scandal when London-based
Barclays was fined by U.K. and U.S. regulators last year.  The e-mails from Deutsche Bank, Germany’s largest lender,
also show employees talking about Unitech’s understanding of the
contracts. The Indian company was “outrightly ‘uneducated,’”
according to another 2007 e-mail by a Deutsche Bank employee.
“The client does whatever we tell him to,” another Deutsche
Bank employee said.  Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, said the e-mails were “irrelevant” to the hearing.  “The communications cited by the defendant have been taken
out of context, are irrelevant to the appeals court hearing, and
are another attempt to divert attention from its unpaid debt and
the recent High Court ruling that we, along with the other
lenders, are entitled to have an outstanding loan repaid,”
Hanes said in an e-mail.  Agarwal didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the
e-mails.  Unitech hasn’t repaid a $150 million loan to a group of
lenders and owes $11 million for the swap, Deutsche Bank said in
the case last year.  The appeals hearing will decide whether companies can argue
that Libor-fixing means their contracts aren’t valid, or whether
they must prove a loss and seek damages.  The cases are: Graiseley Properties Ltd & Ors. v. Barclays
Bank Plc, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench Division,
Commercial Court, 12-1259; and Deutsche Bank AG & Ors v. Unitech
Global Limited & Anr, High Court of Justice, Queen’s Bench
Division, Commercial Court, 11-1199 (X1Q6M1JRB282).  Compliance Policy  Fannie Mae Survival Back on Table as Congress Drafts Plan  The consensus in Washington that  Fannie Mae (FNMA)  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC) 
should be dismantled is weakening amid opposition from  hedge
funds , regional banks and others who could benefit if the
companies survive in some form.  President  Barack Obama  and lawmakers from both parties have
called for the two mortgage-finance companies to be replaced by
a new U.S. housing system. While the official position hasn’t
changed, a bipartisan group of U.S. senators writing legislation
is grappling with how to ensure that changes to  Fannie Mae  and
 Freddie Mac  don’t disrupt the recovering housing market.  Some Democrats said they are leery of engineering a switch
that would liquidate the government-sponsored enterprises, or
GSEs, leaving it to private entities to risk their own capital
on home loans.  Since they almost collapsed during the 2008 credit crisis,
the two companies have drawn $187.5 billion from taxpayers and
have been considered too politically toxic to be preserved.
While the U.S. holds controlling stakes, the outcome will affect
private investors including hedge funds Perry Capital and
Paulson & Co., which have accumulated preferred shares and have
spent months lobbying for Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to be
recapitalized.  The hedge funds gained little traction in early meetings on
 Capitol Hill . As the legislative process advances and involves a
wider group of lawmakers, some are listening to the preservation
argument.  Driving investor hopes and the change in tone are the
record profits Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac have been posting as
the housing market rebounds from the worst recession since the
1930s. The companies are required to send almost all of those
profits back to the Treasury.  For more, click here.  Fallon Backs Exempting Small U.K. Companies From Labor Rules  Business Minister   Michael Fallon  signaled support for
exempting Britain’s smallest companies from some employment
regulations, arguing it would encourage them to hire staff.  Fallon, a Conservative member of Prime Minister  David
Cameron ’s coalition government, offered his view at a news
conference in London yesterday, citing the example of the U.S.
in the 1980s, where small businesses were “successfully”
exempted. He spoke alongside former  Diageo Plc (DGE)  Chief Executive
Officer  Paul Walsh , who’s advising the government on cutting
regulation. Walsh said small firms should be freed from all
rules.  Fallon’s office later said he supports keeping some labor
rules, such as the minimum wage and basic safety protections.
Still, his comments highlight the divide within the coalition
about the way to promote growth. Liberal Democrat members of the
government, including Fallon’s boss, Business Secretary  Vince
Cable , have in the past blocked moves to reduce employment
protections.  Fallon and Walsh were speaking at an event to mark the
publication of a report written by six business leaders on
reducing European Union regulation. They urged that micro-enterprises -- those employing fewer than 10 people -- should be
exempt from “all EU employment law.”  Finra Publishes Conflicts of Interest Report on Broker-Dealers  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority published a
report on conflicts of interest in the broker-dealer industry,
according to a  statement  on its website.  The report highlights effective conflicts management
practices that may go beyond current regulatory requirements and
identify potential problem areas, Finra Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Ketchum  said in the statement.  Among the identified considerations are making independent
decisions in wealth management about products offered without
regard to proprietary products of the firm, and “minimizing
conflicts in compensation structures between customer and broker
or firm interests where possible,” according to the statement.  Compliance Action  Moody’s Clashes With Treasury’s Lew on Prioritizing Payments  The U.S. will likely prioritize debt payments ahead of
other obligations, should Congress fail to raise the nation’s
$16.7 trillion debt ceiling, according to Moody’s Investors
Service. Treasury has signaled less optimism on the department’s
ability to “pick and choose” payments.  Moody’s, which rates the U.S. a stable Aaa grade,
reiterated Oct. 14 that it expects the debt ceiling to be
raised, averting a default. The company also expects “that the
U.S. government will pay interest and principal on its debt even
if the statutory debt limit isn’t raised.”  Fitch Ratings  and
 Standard & Poor’s , which haven’t published comments on
Treasury’s ability to prioritize payments, have also said they
expect the U.S. to avoid default.  While default may threaten to spark a financial crisis
exceeding that seen in 2008, the S&P 500 Index of stocks has
traded at an almost one-month high in a bet that Democrats and
Republicans will decline to test that outcome. Treasury
Secretary Jacob J. Lew said anyone suggesting the U.S. system
can be reconfigured to only make some payments doesn’t
understand its architecture and that doing so is “default by
another name.”  Lew has told Congress extraordinary measures being used to
avoid breaching the debt ceiling “will be exhausted no later
than Oct. 17” and officials will have about $30 billion in cash
to pay obligations.  While prioritizing debt payments over obligations wouldn’t
be a default, it would “damage perceptions of U.S. sovereign
creditworthiness,” said Fitch, which has a negative outlook on
the U.S. ranking.  For more, click here.  Courts  Mark Cuban’s Desire to Win Led Him to Break Law, SEC Lawyer Says  Mark Cuban’s defense rested and the prosecution presented
its closing argument yesterday in the trial of the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission’s claim that the billionaire
acted on nonpublic information when he sold shares of Mamma.com.  Cuban’s “desire to win, that competitive edge that makes
him successful,” led him to engage in illegal insider trading,
SEC lawyer Jan Folena told a federal jury in Dallas.  The trial of the billionaire owner of pro basketball’s
Dallas Mavericks started Sept. 30.  The SEC claims Cuban sold his 6.3 percent stake in
Mamma.com in 2004 to avoid a $750,000 loss after learning non-public information that would have diluted the value of his
shares, the SEC said.  Cuban, 55, who also owns the high-definition television
network HDNet and the Landmark Theatre cinema chain, has denied
the allegations. Before selling his shares he was Mamma.com’s
biggest investor, which is now known as Copernic Inc.  The SEC is seeking disgorgement of his alleged ill-gotten
gains and unspecified monetary penalties.  Former Mamma.com Chief Executive Officer Guy Faure
allegedly told Cuban in a June 2004 phone call of the company’s
plans for a private investment in public equity, or PIPE
transaction.  In a recording played for the jury, Faure testified that he
told Cuban the information was confidential and also testified
that the billionaire was upset at the end of their eight-minute
conversation.  Folena referred to that discussion in her closing yesterday
and asked the jury to find Cuban liable, saying he failed to
play by the rules.  Erik Sirri , who led the SEC’s division of market regulation
and trading from 2006 to 2009, testified as an expert witness
for Cuban yesterday. He said that in his opinion, the
information about the PIPE “was public before Mr. Cuban
traded.”  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Cuban,
08-cv-02050, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Texas
(Dallas).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in Jersey City, New Jersey
at   cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 