-- Ibovespa Leads World Equity Gains on Localiza Profit
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2013-10-16T19:43:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/ibovespa-futures-fluctuate-as-localiza-earnings-offset-economy.html
(Corrects time period for economic activity index in
seventh paragraph.)  The Ibovespa rose the most among the
world’s stock gauges as  Localiza Rent a Car SA ’s earnings
spurred optimism about the outlook for corporate profits and  OGX
Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA  surged.  OGX, the  oil company  founded by  Eike Batista , gained the
most on record after O Estado de S.Paulo reported that the
company will receive $200 million from a group of U.S. investors
it didn’t identify to fund its projects. Raw-material companies
including Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA rose as commodities
advanced amid speculation lawmakers in the U.S. will agree on a
deal to raise the government’s debt ceiling.  The Ibovespa climbed 2.1 percent to 56,126.09 at 11:54 a.m.
in Sao Paulo, the most among 94 stock gauges tracked by
Bloomberg. Thirty-one of the benchmark’s 73 member stocks
gained. The real rose 0.8 percent to 2.16165 per dollar.
Localiza, the first member of the gauge to release third-quarter
results, posted adjusted net income of 102.1 million reais,
exceeding the average  estimate  of 92.3 million reais among
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “This earnings season could be a driver to push the
Ibovespa higher,” Otavio Vieira, a partner at hedge fund Fides
Asset Management, said in a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .
“Everyone is waiting to see what will happen in the U.S. and
the debt ceiling, but once this is over, earnings will be the
main thing to watch in Brazil.”  Economic Activity  Localiza added 2.8 percent to 36.14 reais. The company,
whose profit increased 43 percent from a year earlier, has
reported earnings that topped forecasts for four straight
 quarters , data compiled by Bloomberg show. The stock is up 1.9
percent this year.  The company “is proving that its earnings continue to grow
at a double-digit rate even in a year of increasing interest
rates and lower operating margins,” Banco Itau BBA SA analysts
including Renata Faber wrote in a note to clients.  Brazil ’s  economic activity index , a proxy for gross
domestic product, increased 1.32 percent in August from a year
earlier, the central bank said today. The median estimate among
economists surveyed by Bloomberg was for 1.5 percent growth.  OGX surged 50 percent to 51 centavos, extending a three-day
rally to 143 percent. With the $200 million the company is
raising, production in Tubarao Martelo field may start in mid-November, O Estado reported, without saying where it got the
information. OGX’s press office didn’t respond to a request for
comment from  Bloomberg News .  Gafisa’s Sales  CSN, as Cia. Siderurgica is known, added 2.5 percent to
11.72 reais. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of 24 raw
materials rose 0.4 percent. U.S. Senate leaders are resuming
talks today after the  House of Representatives  scrapped a vote
on its plan to suspend the debt limit until February.  Homebuilder Gafisa lost 2.8 percent to 3.43 reais. The
company logged a 22 percent drop in booked sales during the
third quarter, according to preliminary results in a regulatory
filing posted after the close of trading yesterday.  The Ibovespa entered a  bull market  Sept. 9 after rising 20
percent from this year’s low on July 3 through that day. The
gauge is down 13 percent in dollar terms this year, compared
with a decline of 2.3 percent for the MSCI  Emerging Markets 
Index of 21 developing nations’ equities.  Trading volume of stocks in Sao Paulo yesterday was 9.53
billion reais, compared with a daily average of 7.56 billion
reais this year through Oct. 14, according to data compiled by
the exchange.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  