-- Michelin Names 83 Good-Value Restaurants in San Francisco
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2013-10-16T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/michelin-names-83-good-value-restaurants-in-san-francisco.html
A neighborhood bistro on the cable-car line, a Greek restaurant in Silicon Valley and a pizza bar
in  Redwood City  are among 83  San Francisco  area establishments
honored today by Michelin for serving good-value, quality food.  The French company picks its Bib Gourmand winners one week
before publishing the 2014 guide to the city, when chefs and
restaurateurs learn if they have been awarded stars. The number
of recipients of a Bib Gourmand is up from 70 last year.  The winners serve two courses and a glass of wine or
dessert for $40 or less, plus tax and tip. Twenty two types of
cuisine are represented in venues across the region, including
East Bay, Wine Country, Marin,  South Bay  and the Peninsula.  “Local inspectors are trained to scrupulously apply the
same time-tested methods used by Michelin inspectors for many
decades,” Michelin said in an e-mailed release.  Those honored include  Backyard ,  Chalkboard ,  Ebisu ,  Evvia ,
 Fey ,  Glen Ellen Star , Happy Noodles,  Izakaya Yuzuki ,  La
Costanera ,  Mason Pacific ,  M.Y. China ,  Ramen Shop , Regalito, Rich
Table,  Sana Marin ,  Sir and Star ,  1601 Bar & Kitchen  and  Vesta .  Mason Pacific serves a seasonal bistro menu at the
intersection of Nob Hill, Russian Hill and Chinatown. Evvia
offers Greek classics and local interpretations of Hellenic
dishes. Vesta specializes in wood-fired pizzas.  Michelin & Cie (ML) ,  Europe ’s largest tiremaker, produced its
first guide in 1900. It was free of charge until 1920 and
intended for chauffeurs. The volume contained practical
information, including street maps and tips on repairing tires.
The company is based in Clermont-Ferrand,  France .  Michelin named the following Bib Gourmand winners:  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of  Bloomberg News . He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Manuela Hoelterhoff  on arts,  Jorg
von Uthmann  on Paris culture,  Ryan Sutton  on  New York  dining,
 Hephzibah Anderson  on books and  Amanda Gordon’s  Scene Last
Night.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in  London  at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 