-- Michigan Gay Marriage Ban Challenge Gets February Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s ,   S t e v e   R a p h a e l   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2013-10-16T22:19:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/michigan-gay-marriage-ban-judge-said-challenge-supported.html
A challenge to  Michigan ’s same-sex
marriage ban, brought by a lesbian couple seeking to adopt each
other’s children, can only be decided after a trial, a federal
judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Bernard Friedman declined to rule on
the basis of preliminary arguments today whether the ban
violates the constitutional rights of gay couples. Friedman, who
set a nonjury trial for Feb. 25, in July called the challengers’
claims plausible in the wake of a landmark U.S. Supreme Court
ruling. He said he also wants to determine if there is a
legitimate state interest in maintaining the gay marriage ban.  “The parties must be afforded the opportunity to develop
their own record in this matter with the benefit of calling
witnesses and subjecting them to cross-examination,” he said
in an order issued after today’s hearing in federal court in
 Detroit .  The Michigan lawsuit was filed by April DeBoer and Jayne
Rowse, both nurses, who initially sued last year to overturn a
state law barring unmarried couples from adopting children. They
later added the challenge to the gay marriage ban.  “The right is not to same-sex marriage,” Carole Stanyar,
their lawyer, told the judge today. “It is the right to
marriage.”  ‘Optimal Parenting’  Republican Governor Rick Snyder, defending the laws, argued
in court papers that the state has a legitimate interest in
promoting “natural procreation,” “optimal parenting” and
“family stability.”  On Sept. 27, a  New Jersey state  judge ruled that gay
marriage must be allowed to afford same-sex couples equal
protection under that state’s constitution. The decision, now
under review by the state Supreme Court, made New Jersey the
14th U.S. state to legalize gay marriage.  Similar lawsuits are pending in  Illinois ,  Pennsylvania  and
at least a dozen other states.  In Michigan, Friedman denied Snyder’s bid for dismissal in
July, after saying in March that he would await the Supreme
Court’s decision in a suit seeking to overturn part of the
federal Defense of Marriage Act before ruling.  That decision, which struck down DoMA’s definition of
marriage as between one man and one woman for federal purposes,
came in June.  ‘Without Plausibility’  “Construing the facts in the light most favorable to the
plaintiffs and in view of the Supreme Court’s current statement
of the law, this court cannot say plaintiffs’ claims for relief
are without plausibility,” Friedman said in July.  The Michigan plaintiffs, who told the court they’ve been a
couple for 12 years, have lived together for six and are joint
homeowners.  DeBoer’s daughter was born and adopted in 2010. Rowse
adopted two sons in 2009, the same year they were born.  Their initial complaint challenged only the state’s law
prohibiting unmarried couples from adopting the other’s
children.  In an October 2012 amendment they added a claim that
Michigan’s state constitutional ban on same-sex marriage
violates federal constitutional guarantees of equal protection
and due process. They decided to challenge the marriage law at
Friedman’s suggestion, Dana Nessel, a lawyer for DeBoer and
Rowse, said in a phone interview.  In an Aug. 14 brief, the women challenged the objectives of
the state’s law, noting that heterosexual couples can marry
regardless of their desire to have children and that gay and
heterosexual couples can have children without being married.  ‘Actually Undermined’  “The state’s position that ‘responsible procreation and
childrearing’ is advanced by two parents who are married to each
other is, for this reason, actually undermined by the ban on
same-sex marriage,” the women’s lawyers wrote.  The plaintiffs failed to demonstrate that their
constitutional rights have been violated, Kristin Heyse, an
attorney for the state, said at today’s hearing. The people of
Michigan should determine the state’s laws, she said.  The state’s position “is not an attack on the gay/lesbian
lifestyle,” she said. “The plaintiffs should be complimented”
on how well they’ve raised their children, Heyse said.  Michigan’s citizenry through its legislature have
repeatedly rejected attempts to change the state’s law on
adoption, which has existed in some form since 1945, according
to papers filed with the court by Attorney General Bill Schuette, who is also a named defendant in the lawsuit.  State Billls  The same-sex marriage ban was voted into Michigan’s
constitution in 2004. Since then, two bills to recognize gay
marriage have been introduced in the state’s legislature to no
avail, according to the state’s papers.  “Michigan has never recognized a same-sex marriage, and
the citizens of this state have repeatedly decided to reaffirm
the traditional definition of marriage,” Schuette said in the
filing.  Rowse and DeBoer live in Oakland County. Bill Bullard, the
county clerk, initially was named as a defendant in the suit
because the clerk’s office is responsible for issuing marriage
licenses. In November, he was voted out in favor of Lisa Brown,
who doesn’t oppose the women’s suit and has filed court papers
stating she believes the state’s same-sex marriage ban violates
the U.S. Constitution.  Lawyers for the state have asked Friedman to re-align
Brown’s position in the case so that she is regarded as a
plaintiff and not a defendant.  The case is DeBoer v. Snyder, 12-cv-10285, U.S. District
Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Raphael in Detroit at 
 sraphael5@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  