-- IMI Sells Dispenser Business to Berkshire for $1.1 Billion
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l
-- 2013-10-16T09:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/imi-sells-dispenser-arm-to-berkshire-hathaway-for-1-1-billion.html
IMI Plc (IMI)  agreed to sell its beverage
dispenser and merchandising businesses to  Berkshire Hathaway
Inc. (BRK/A) ’s Marmon Group for about $1.1 billion in cash to focus on
industrial valves and fluid control systems.  IMI’s decision in March to explore options for its soda-pop
dispenser, used by Coca-Cola Co.,  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP)  and McDonald’s
Corp., prompted Marmon to make an unsolicited approach, it said
today in a statement. Shareholders of the Birmingham, England-based IMI will receive 620 million pounds ($991 million) of the
proceeds, with an additional 70 million-pound pension
contribution planned.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire will use IMI’s beverage
dispensers and mixers, which are also benefiting from growing
demand for chilled beers served on tap, to boost the retail and
food operations of its Marmon business. IMI chief executive
officer Martin Lamb, who is preparing to step down after 13 year
in the role, is disposing of the business to fully focus on
selling fluid technologies and control systems for chemical
plants as well as the oil and gas industry.  The disposal will “enable IMI to focus on the better
margins and higher growth fluid controls business,” said Glen Liddy, an analyst at JPMorgan. “We expect the improvement in
group margins and higher medium-term growth prospects of the
more focused business portfolio to be reflected in higher
valuation multiples for the group.”  ‘Right Time’  Shares of IMI, which was founded by a Scottish Victorian
entrepreneur in Birmingham in 1862, gained 2.3 percent to 1,534
pence as of 10:32 a.m. in  London , giving the company a market
value of 4.8 billion pounds. The stock has risen 40 percent this
year, while the benchmark FTSE 100 Index gained 11 percent.  “The disposal comes at the right time for IMI,” Lamb, who
will retire at the end of the year, said in a phone interview.
“Marmon are in this space, they are buying it to build it,
rather than make cuts.”  Marmon CEO Frank Ptak said in a statement that the IMI unit
will “become an integral part of the Marmon Retail Technologies
company, one of three Marmon companies that together comprise
approximately 160 independent manufacturing and service
businesses worldwide.”  IMI was advised by JPMorgan Cazenove and Citigroup Inc.,
while Robert W Baird & Co. advised on the merchandising disposal
process.  Further Deals  IMI said in a separate statement today that sales adjusted
for acquisitions and currencies swings rose 3 percent in the
three months to the end of September. In the beverage dispense
unit, revenue declined 8 percent as major customers continued to
defer investments.  IMI said earlier this year it plans to pick up its pace of
acquisitions in the energy industry after buying a Canadian
company that serves refineries. IMI may spend as much as 1
billion pounds on purchases over the next five years, Lamb said
in August.  The company is interested primarily in the energy industry
as shale gas development in the U.S. boosts opportunities for it
to serve petrochemical producers. The maker of valves for the
control of liquid and gas flows also plans to benefit from
nuclear energy expansion in  China ,  Russia ,  India  and  Korea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Noel in London at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Thiel at 
 sthiel1@bloomberg.net  