-- India Growth to Improve as Stalled Projects Revive, Rajan Says
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2013-10-16T05:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/india-growth-to-improve-as-stalled-projects-revive-rajan-says.html
Reserve Bank  of India Governor
Raghuram Rajan commented on  India’s economy  at  Harvard Business
School  in the U.S. yesterday.  On stalled infrastructure projects:  “The simple fix is we don’t need a manufacturing
revolution. We need it in the next 10 years but not now. We need
to complete these projects.  ‘‘Growth will start picking up because these large projects
will start coming onstream.’’  On gold and the current-account gap:  ‘‘Gold is an asset that many Indian households prize.
People who are richer don’t know about fixed deposit. They want
to buy gold. Our gold imports started surging over the last 10
years as people became more prosperous. That creates a problem
because we import all our gold.  ‘‘Take out gold and our current-account deficit becomes
healthy.  India  is sitting on something like 30,000 pounds of
gold, all of which is imported.’’  On regulations:  ‘‘We need a simpler, cleaner system of regulation. We need
to right-size regulation. We need to do it across India.
Certainly we’re working on the financial sector to make
regulation simpler and more transparent.’’  On India’s banking system:  ‘‘We need a better and more transparent framework and we’re
doing that.  ‘‘We are creating more opportunities but bringing in more
entrants. This is part of making the banking system more
competitive.  ‘‘We need people who need money to pay it back and we need
to know who is not paying it back and why. We need to reduce the
amount of strategic default in the country.  ‘‘My hope is over the next few years we transform the
financial landscape.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at 
 jlawrence62@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Ten Kate at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net  