-- InterDigital, Mattel, Navistar: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2013-10-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/interdigital-mattel-navistar-intellectual-property.html
The U.S. Supreme Court let
 InterDigital Inc. (IDCC)  pursue a bid to extract patent royalties from
 Nokia Oyj (NOK)  for the third generation of mobile-phone technology.  The nation’s highest court yesterday rejected an appeal by
Nokia, which contended that InterDigital couldn’t block imports
of the disputed technology because it wasn’t making any products
of its own. A federal appeals court had said InterDigital could
press the case, one of several the company has filed at the U.S.
International Trade Commission.  Companies including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) 
joined Nokia in urging the Supreme Court to take up the appeal
and limit the ITC’s jurisdiction. They argued that the
commission has become a favorite forum for companies whose sole
business is to obtain patents and seek royalties.  “Instead of protecting American jobs from unfair trade
practices, the ITC is now imposing unfair litigation practices,
to the detriment of the very domestic industries it is supposed
to protect,” Amazon, Hewlett-Packard and Red Hat Inc. said in a
court filing.  The ITC is a quasi-judicial agency whose job is to protect
U.S. markets from unfair trade practices, such as infringement
of intellectual property. It has the power to order products
halted at the U.S. border.  InterDigital and the Obama administration both told the
court it shouldn’t hear the case. InterDigital, based in
Wilmington,  Delaware , said in court papers that it “does not
simply take advantage of others’ inventions” and “has been at
the forefront of digital wireless telephony since its founding”
in 1972.  The Supreme Court appeal rejected yesterday is Nokia v.
ITC, 12-1352. The ITC case is In the Matter of Certain 3G Mobile
Handsets and components thereof, 337-613, U.S. International
Trade Commission ( Washington ).  Quest Enters Breast-Cancer Test Market Dominated by Myriad  Quest Diagnostics Inc. (DGX) , the biggest U.S. operator of
medical labs, began yesterday to sell a test for two breast
cancer genes, providing competition for Myriad Genetics Inc. and
potentially helping to reduce costs for women fearful they are
at risk of the disease.  Quest will sell the most comprehensive version of its test
for the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes for $2,500, said Richard Bender, a
consultant for the Madison, New Jersey-based company. The price
compares with almost $3,400 that Medicare pays for the most
comprehensive version of a test from Myriad.  Myriad held a U.S. monopoly over the BRCA tests until June,
when the U.S. Supreme Court invalidated parts of its gene
patents. Immediately afterward,  Ambry Genetics Corp.  and another
closely held company said they were entering the BRCA market.
Quest is the largest competitor to move into the field.  Quest’s test “will certainly be comparable to if not
better than the data provided by Myriad” in its ability to
identify a harmful mutation, Bender said by telephone.  Quest’s incursion into the BRCA testing market sets up a
potential legal battle with Myriad, which has various remaining
patents on its tests.  “We feel we offer a test that is the gold standard in
quality,” Ronald Rogers, a Myriad spokesman, said in a phone
interview.  Quest’s test “does not violate any valid BRCA patent that
Myriad Genetics may assert,” Wendy Bost, a Quest spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail.  Quest said in an Oct. 10 complaint filed in federal court
in Santa Ana,  California , that it believes Myriad will bring a
patent-infringement lawsuit if it starts selling its BRCA test
products.  Myriad hasn’t yet been served with Quest’s complaint, said
Rogers. “Once we receive that, we will read through it and
weigh our options,” he said.  The case is Quest Diagnostics Inc. v.  Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) ,
13-cv-01587, U.S. District Court, Central District of California
(Santa Ana).  California’s Brown Rejects Bill Allowing Biosimilar Substitutes  California Governor Jerry Brown vetoed a bill that would
have permitted pharmacists to substitute biosimilar drugs,
Associated Press  reported .  This bill would have permitted a pharmacist to substitute a
generic form of a brand-name biological drug, such as those
typically used to treat cancer and immune-system problems,
according to AP.  Biosimilars differ from the more usual generic drugs in
that they are similar to, but don’t replicate exactly, the
brand-name biological drug, AP reported.  Brown said that the state needs to wait until federal
regulators establish guidelines for the use of biosimilars, AP
reported.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Mattel’s U.K. ‘Tile’ Trademark Is Invalid, Appeals Court Ruled  Mattel Inc. (MAT) , the El Segundo, California-based toymaker,
lost an appeal of a ruling that found one of its U.K. trademarks
for the game Scrabble is invalid.  Zynga Inc.’s was sued in the U.K. for infringing the mark
with “Scramble With Friends.” The San Francisco games company
then asked the Chancery Division of the High Court of Justice to
dismiss the case on the grounds that Mattel’s tile trademark
wasn’t entitled to registration.  The court agreed and granted Zynga’s request for dismissal
in November. Mattel appealed that judgment to the England and
Wales Court of Appeal.  In an Oct. 4  ruling , the appeals court said the lower
court’s ruling was correct. The three-judge panel said that the
tile mark isn’t a “sign” as required under U.K. trademark law.
The mark potentially covered many signs “achievable by numerous
permutations, presentations and combinations of the subject
matter of the registration.”  Counsel for Zynga argued that in registering the mark,
Mattel made an “impermissible attempt to monopolize a concept
of an ivory-colored three-dimensional tile of indeterminate size
with a letter and a numeral somewhere on its upper face.”  The case is J.W. Spear & Sons Ltd. v. Zunga Inc., (2013)
EWCA Civ 1175.  Honey Trademarks Rejected at Request Of Honey Producers’ Group  The Intellectual Property Office of New Zealand rejected
six trademark applications related to honey’s antibacterial
properties, the New Zealand Farmer  reported .  The applications, filed by the director of a company in the
health-supplements business, were rejected on the grounds that
the requested trademarks might confuse consumers, according to
New Zealand Farmer.  The applications were opposed by the  Unique Manuka Fabor
Honey Association , which said that labeling honey with a
specific anti-bacterial level is misleading, as the claimed
antibacterial compound is unstable and can degrade in the
presence of light and heat, the publication reported.  A second reason the association opposed the application is
that the applicant was already licensed to use one of the
association’s trademarks, with which the requested marks would
have competed, according to New Zealand Farmer.  While Obamacare Debate Rages, People Seek to Register Trademarks  Even though Congress is still debating measures aimed at
repealing the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of
2010, known as Obamacare, various proponents and opponents have
filed applications to register trademarks related to the term
“Obamacare.”  The most recent application is for the use of
“Obamacares” for insurance administration. Eden Consulting
Group Ltd. of Sunny Isles Beach,  Florida , filed that application
Oct. 4.  Fiorella Insurance Inc., of Stuart, Florida, filed an
application Aug. 7 to register “Obamacare Enrollment Team,” to
be used for an insurance brokerage.  Trendsetter HR LLC of Rockwall,  Texas , filed an Aug. 14
application, seeking registration for “Obamacare Calculator”
to be used with human resource analysis and consulting services.  Ideas Unleased LLLC of New Orleans is seeking to register
“Destroy Obamacare www.unleashed-ideas.com.” That application,
filed July 31, specifies that the trademark -- which features
the image of a stethoscope with a bomb at the bell end -- would
be used for t-shirts.  A Cypress, Texas, resident filed an application in July
2012 --and abandoned it in January 2013 -- to register
“Obamacare-National Day of Protest” as a trademark.  A second application that also has been abandoned was filed
in April 2010 by a resident of Greeley,  Kansas . He sought to
register “Obamacare: Run for Your Life,” and said it would be
used on triathlon clothing. That mark was abandoned in October
of that same year.  An application to register “How Obamacare works” was
filed in March 2013 by a resident of Zionsville,  Indiana . She
said she wants to use the mark in connection with “a continuing
TV talk show broadcast over television, satellite, audio and
video media.”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Navistar Sues Hearst Unit Over Truck-Service Information System  Navistar Inc. (NAV) , the Lisle, Illinois-based truck
manufacturer, filed a copyright infringement lawsuit against
Hearst Corp.  According to the complaint filed in federal court in
 Chicago  Oct. 11, Navistar claims that its proprietary content is
being used without authorization in the publishing company’s
Motor Information Systems Unit’s  FleetCross  website.  Navistar claims that Motor Information Systems had access
to the content, reproduced it, and has displayed it without
authorization.  It asked the court for an order barring further
unauthorized use of the content -- which is related to truck-service information -- and for awards of money damages, profits
related to the alleged infringement, litigation costs and
attorney fees.  Paul Luthringer, a spokesman for New York-based Hearst,
declined to comment on the lawsuit.  The case is Navistar Inc., v. Hearst Corp., 13-cv-07333,
U.S. District Court, Northern District of  Illinois  (Chicago).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in San Francisco at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  