-- Intel Production Slip Dents Trust in Krzanich’s Mobile Push
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2013-10-16T08:30:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/intel-production-slip-dents-confidence-in-krzanich-s-mobile-push.html
Intel Corp. (INTC)  said manufacturing snags
will delay a new line of processors, denting confidence in its
ability to roll out advanced technology that can win orders in
the fast-growing market for tablets and smartphones.  The new Broadwell design for chips will begin production in
the first quarter of 2014, about three months later than
planned, Chief Executive Officer Brian Krzanich said yesterday.
The stock slipped on the news, erasing an initial gain in
extended trading after Intel reported third-quarter earnings
that topped estimates.  Intel’s processors, which dominate the personal-computer
market, have failed to attract interest from tablet and
smartphone makers, leaving the company on the sidelines of a
growing business. While Broadwell is designed for PCs, any
perceived weakness in the company’s manufacturing may fuel
investor concerns about whether Krzanich can win orders in
mobile and lessen Intel’s dependence on computer sales.  “Every delay or slight disappointment is going to get
magnified because of the crossroads they’re at,” said Pat Becker Jr., a fund manager at Becker Capital Management in
 Portland ,  Oregon , which owns Intel stock. “Any push-back gets
dissected by the Street and rightly so. There’s no proof that
they’ve been able to execute in mobile in the past.”  Broadwell, which will be made using 14-nanometer
manufacturing technology, will go into production in the first
quarter of next year, Krzanich said on a conference call.  “We have our arms around what the issues were,” Chief
Financial Officer Stacy Smith said in an interview. The first
products will be shipped to customers in the second half of next
year, he said.  Revenue Forecast  Intel declined 1.2 percent to the equivalent of $23.11 in
German trading at 10:21 a.m. Frankfurt time. The shares fell 2
percent in extended U.S. trading yesterday after the company
announced the production delay, after closing at $23.39 in New
York. The stock is up 13 percent this year, less than half of
the gains in the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index.  The company also said fourth-quarter revenue will be $13.2
billion to $14.2 billion. That compared with the average
analysts’ projection of $14 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Gross margin , or the percentage of sales remaining
after deducting production costs, will be about 61 percent,
Intel said in a  statement , in line with estimates.  Krzanich’s Focus  Krzanich, who took over the top job at the world’s largest
chipmaker in May, has said the company needs to speed up the
delivery of new products for mobile devices. Intel, which has
struggled to cut into  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ’s lead in the mobile-chip
market, is scaling down its PC processor designs to make them
capable of running on the limited battery life available in
phones and tablets. To do that, the company plans to build them
using more advanced production techniques.  Intel shrinks the size of the circuit lines that give
processors their function with new manufacturing techniques to
improve the performance and lower the cost. That is key to
fielding products that the company says will help it win orders
in mobile devices. Krzanich said the company has already
corrected the problem with Broadwell.  “This is a small blip,” he said on the call.  Mobile-phone shipments are projected to increase by 7.3
percent this year, fueled by demand for smartphones, while
tablet unit sales will  grow  an estimated 59 percent, according
to researcher IDC. Meantime, PC shipments are forecast to drop
9.7 percent worldwide, IDC said in August.  Division Sales  Third-quarter net income fell to $2.95 billion, or 58 cents
a share, from $2.97 billion, or 58 cents, a year earlier, the
Santa Clara, California-based company said. Sales were little
changed at $13.5 billion. That compared with average analysts’
 estimates  for earnings of 54 cents on $13.5 billion of revenue.  Worldwide PC shipments fell 8.6 percent in the third
quarter. The decline, the sixth consecutive drop, was tempered
by growth in the U.S., where shipments climbed 3.5 percent,
market researcher Gartner Inc. said last week.  Intel’s PC-chip group, its largest division, had sales of
$8.4 billion, down 3.5 percent from a year earlier. Its server-chip unit, which also sells processors for storage and
networking equipment, had revenue of $2.9 billion, a gain of 12
percent.  Though Intel hasn’t gained much ground in the market for
smartphones and tablets, it still benefits from their popularity
because it supplies the main component in 9 out of 10 of the
server machines that dish out data to handheld devices. Demand
for servers is being driven by companies such as  Facebook Inc. (FB) ,
Google Inc. and Amazon.com Inc., which are building data centers
to meet growing demand for mobile online services.  ‘Not Terrible’  “Even though PCs and laptops are weak, they’re not
terrible,” said Michael Shinnick, a fund manager at Salt Lake
City-based Wasatch Advisors Inc. “Server sales continue to be
strong.”  Intel took 92 percent of revenue in the market for PC
processors in the second quarter, compared with a 3.2 percent
slice of the market for tablet processors, according to IDC.  Gross margin in the third quarter was 62.4 percent, Intel
said, compared with an average analysts’ estimate of 61 percent.  Shinnick said Intel’s ability to maintain high profit
margins, even as its main market declines, shows that the
company has a dominant position that won’t be easily eroded.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  