-- Irish Follow-Up Program to Hinge on Terms, Estonia’s Ligi Says
-- B y   O t t   U m m e l a s
-- 2013-10-16T14:47:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/irish-follow-up-program-to-hinge-on-terms-estonia-s-ligi-says.html
Estonian Finance Minister Juergen Ligi said the possibility of follow-up financing for Ireland
after it exits a bailout this year would depend on aid
conditions.  A precautionary  credit line  “has been talked about,” even
as Ireland has a funding cushion of about 15 months, Ligi, who
took part in this week’s euro-area finance ministers’ meeting in
Luxembourg, told reporters today in the Estonian capital,
Tallinn. Even so, follow-up financing for either Ireland or
 Spain , which is also due to exit an aid program for its banks
this year, wasn’t discussed at the latest meeting, he said.  “There is always the option, depending on the success of
returning to market, to consider different measures to support
countries, for example to keep a spare credit line in the case
of Ireland,” Ligi said. “Everything depends on the conditions
attached, and what it would be needed for.”  The Irish government hasn’t decided finally on whether to
seek a precautionary credit line from international authorities
after exiting the bailout, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said
yesterday. The country’s debt agency has almost 25 billion euros
in cash, meaning Ireland already has “a credible backstop” in
place, he said.  Spain took 41.3 billion euros ($55.9 billion) in European
aid to shore up its banking system as concern mounted last year
that losses building up at former savings banks such as the
 Bankia SA (BKIA)  group would harm government finances.  ‘Nordic Stance’  The Spanish banking program has “generally been
implemented and there’s also been progress with divesting bad
assets,” Ligi said. “Spain has had a rather Nordic stance in
managing this crisis, according to my experience. They do have
plenty of problems, but they have done a lot on restructuring
their financial sector.”  During talks yesterday in Luxembourg, a rift emerged
between proponents of enhanced backstops to cover any capital
shortfalls that may be uncovered by the ECB-led bank
assessments, including  Germany , and those who maintain that
existing options will suffice. A solution to this would depend
on the result of continuing coalition talks in Germany,
according to Ligi.  “They are still putting together the government -- it is
clear they can’t present rigid positions,” he said. “It is a
subject of their coalition talks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ott Ummelas in Tallinn at 
 oummelas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  