-- Israel’s CPI Bond Yields Rise on Slower-Than-Forecast Inflation
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2013-10-16T10:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/israel-s-cpi-bond-yields-rise-on-slower-than-forecast-inflation.html
Israeli consumer-price linked bonds
fell, pushing the yield to a two-week high, as slower-than-forecast inflation spurred bets the Bank of  Israel  may cut
 interest rates  in coming months to spur growth.  Yields on the 3.5 percent inflation-linked notes due April
2018 rose four basis points, or 0.04 percentage point, to 0.25
percent at 12:02 p.m in  Tel Aviv . Yields on the benchmark 4.25
percent notes due in March 2023 fell for the first time in three
days, declining one basis point to 3.77 percent.  One-year
interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor expectations for
rates over the period, dropped one basis point to 1.02 percent.  Annual inflation  slowed to 1.3 percent in September, data
from the statistics bureau showed yesterday, below the 1.5
percent estimate of 12 analysts in a Bloomberg  survey . Economic
growth is forecast to slow to 3.4 percent in 2014, from 3.6
percent this year, the central bank said in September. The  Bank
of Israel  last month unexpectedly cut the benchmark rate to 1
percent, its ninth reduction in two years, to boost the economy.  “The lower-than-expected consumer-price data point to a
very moderate inflationary environment, which is expected to
continue over the coming year, making non-linked shekel
denominated bonds a more attractive investment,” Alex Zabezhinsky, chief economist at Tel Aviv-based Meitav DS
Investment House Ltd. said by phone. “This environment will
give the central bank room for another interest-rate cut but all
will depend on who will be the next governor.”  Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  and Finance Minister Yair Lapid will meet today to choose the new governor for the Bank of
Israel, Globes reported today. The Bank of Israel is currently
led by acting Governor Karnit Flug, after  Stanley Fischer  left
the central bank at the end of June.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  