-- J.C. Penney, Home Depot Defeat $250 Million Case Over Gift Cards
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2013-10-16T22:24:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/j-c-penney-home-depot-defeat-250-million-case-over-gift-cards.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP) ,  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and
Toys ‘R’ Us Inc. won lawsuits in which the owner of patents for
branded gift cards was seeking $250 million from the retailers.  Alexsam Inc. dropped the suits today after a federal judge
in Marshall,  Texas , wouldn’t delay an Oct. 22 trial so the
company could find new lawyers. The retailers won’t pay any
money, and agreed not to seek sanctions and attorneys fees from
Alexsam unless it asserts the patents against them or their
partners in the future.  Closely held Alexsam had sued the companies in 2010. While
the retailers were unsuccessful in invalidating the patents in a
May trial, Gap Inc. and  Barnes & Noble Inc. (BKS)  each won later
verdicts that they didn’t use the inventions. The patents,
issued in 1999 and 2001, cover systems to activate and recharge
stored-value cards, such as gift and phone cards.  In the trial that was to begin Oct. 22, Alexsam was seeking
a combined $250 million in patent royalties from the three
companies, said lawyer Bill Sigler of Fisch Hoffman Sigler in
 Washington , who represented the retailers in all three trials.  Alexsam had been seeking $34.5 million from Gap and $72
million from Barnes & Noble.  The judge’s order doesn’t explain why Alexsam ended its
relationship with its lawyers. The lawyer who filed the delay
request also represents Alexsam in a legal dispute with its
former lawyers, District Judge Michael Schneider wrote.  The cases are Alexsam v. J.C. Penney Co., 13cv5; Alexsam v.
Toys ‘R’ Us, 13cv7; and Alexsam v. Home Depot, 13cv8, all U.S.
District Court for the Eastern District of Texas (Marshall).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Susan Decker  in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 