-- Japan Shares Swing as Investors Weigh U.S. Debt Impasse
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-10-16T00:45:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/japan-shares-swing-as-investors-weigh-u-s-debt-impasse.html
Japanese  shares  swung between gains
and losses as talks to avoid a U.S. default resumed after
lawmakers scrapped a vote to end the impasse.  MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings Inc. led a gain by insurers
after the sector fell the most among the 33  Topix (TPX)  industry
groups yesterday. SoftBank Corp. advanced 1.9 percent after
 Japan ’s third-largest wireless carrier said it’s in talks to buy
a stake in Brightstar Corp., a U.S.-based mobile-phone
distributor. Japan Tobacco Inc., Asia’s largest listed cigarette
maker, slumped 3.7 percent on a report it may raise prices after
an increase in the nation’s sales tax.  The Topix slid 0.1 percent to 1,196.28 as of 9:43 a.m. in
Tokyo, after rising as much as 0.2 percent. About two shares
fell for each that rose. The Nikkei 225 Stock Average gained
less than 0.1 percent to 14,445.25. Typhoon Wipha, forecast to
be Tokyo’s biggest storm in about 10 years, hit the capital this
morning. The U.S. runs out of borrowing authority tomorrow.  “Most market participants think the U.S. will reach an
agreement to raise the debt ceiling by the 17th,” said  Hiroichi Nishi , a Tokyo-based equities manager at SMBC Nikko Securities,
a unit of Japan’s second-biggest lender. “But seeing as they
haven’t reached a final agreement yet, we can’t say there’s no
risk of a default.”  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index gained 0.7
percent after Senate leaders resumed talks aimed at ending the
gridlock. The Republican-controlled House had earlier scrapped a
vote on a plan to resolve the situation. The  S&P 500  lost 0.7
percent yesterday after lawmakers failed to reach an agreement.  Investors holding $120 billion of Treasury bills coming due
tomorrow are increasingly worried they won’t get paid.  Fitch
Ratings  placed the nation’s AAA credit rating on a negative
watch yesterday, citing the government’s failure to raise the
borrowing limit as the deadline approaches.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in  Tokyo  at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  