-- Japex Considers Seeking Canada LNG Project Finance From JBIC
-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a
-- 2013-10-16T06:53:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/japex-considers-seeking-canada-lng-project-finance-from-jbic.html
Japan Petroleum Exploration Co. (1662)  may
seek some project financing for its $10 billion liquefied
natural gas project in Canada from Japan Bank for International
Cooperation, according to an official from the producer.  Japan’s second-biggest oil and gas explorer, known as
Japex, acquired a stake in April this year in the Pacific
Northwest Project, which plans to build an LNG plant in Prince
Rupert, British Columbia, with a production capacity of 12
million metric tons a year.  “Given our 10 percent equity in the project, our
investment could reach 100 billion yen or more,” Koichi Shimomura, who advises the president of Japex’s Americas and
Russia project division, said at the World Energy Congress in
Daegu, South Korea, today. “As much as 50 percent of the total
could be covered with the project finance.”  Japex purchased its stake in Pacific Northwest from
Malaysian state-owned Petroliam Nasional Bhd., known as
Petronas. It also bought 10 percent of a shale-gas field in the
North Montney area of British Columbia in the same month.  Japex and Kuala Lumpur-based Petronas plan to complete a
front-end engineering design study in early 2014 and reach a
final  investment decision  by the end of that year, according to
Shimomura.  “Our priority is on the Pacific Northwest LNG Project,”
he said at a briefing.  Japex is part of a Japanese consortium comprising  Inpex
Corp. (1605) ,  Itochu Corp. (8001) , and  Marubeni Corp. (8002)  that signed a memorandum
of understanding with Russian state-owned  Gazprom OAO (GAZP)  in June to
market in Japan LNG supplies from a project in Vladivostok.  “We are in discussion with Japanese utilities to sell LNG
from Vladivostok,” Shimomura said. “No physical works have
been started to build the plant.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  