-- Jos. A. Bank Won’t Rule Out Hostile Bid for Men’s Wearhouse
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2013-10-16T23:05:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/jos-a-bank-won-t-rule-out-hostile-bid-for-men-s-wearhouse-1-.html
Jos. A. Bank Clothiers Inc. (JOSB)  Chairman
Robert Wildrick said he wouldn’t rule out making a hostile bid
for Men’s Wearhouse Inc., which turned down his company’s offer
last week.  “We want this to happen on a friendly basis,” Wildrick
said today in an interview. “But at this point we have not
ruled anything out.”  Jos. A. Bank bid $48 a share in an offer disclosed Oct. 9.
That proposal, reflecting a 36 percent premium over Men’s
Wearhouse’s closing price the previous day, came at a moment of
turmoil for the Houston-based company, which cut its profit
forecast last month and removed founder George Zimmer as
executive chairman over strategy disagreements in June.  Wildrick said he won’t make a new, higher bid without
looking at the company’s books. He said he prefers to acquire
 Men’s Wearhouse (MW)  with a friendly offer that’s best for the
shareholders of both companies.  A hostile bid may not be necessary and Men’s Wearhouse may
eventually be open to a bid if an offer meets certain
conditions, said a person familiar with the matter who declined
to say what the retailer would want.  Ken Dennard, a spokesman for Men’s Wearhouse who works for
Dennard-Lascar Associates LLC, didn’t immediately respond to
voice-mail and e-mail requests for comment about Wildrick’s
remarks.  Books Access  Other than its Oct. 9 statement turning down the offer,
Men’s Wearhouse hasn’t responded to Jos. A. Bank and hasn’t
given the Hampstead, Maryland-based company access to its books,
Wildrick said.  Men’s Wearhouse said in its statement last week that the
$2.3 billion offer undervalues the company and “is not in the
best interests of Men’s Wearhouse or its shareholders.”  The company adopted a so-called “poison pill” after the
Jos. A. Bank bid that effectively limits any stockholder from
acquiring more than 10 percent of the shares.  Combining the companies would create a stronger retailer,
as each has strengths that can help the other grow, he said. The
two companies have total annual sales of about $3.5 billion.
Macy’s Inc. sells about $5.5 billion a year in menswear,
Wildrick said.  Men’s Wearhouse has operations in  Canada , where Jos. A.
Bank doesn’t do business, Wildrick said, while his company has
stronger  Internet sales  and could help Men’s Wearhouse grow
online.  Wildrick said he wouldn’t close any stores. The two brands
reach different buyers with Men’s Wearhouse attracting younger
customers and Bank targeting older, more upscale shoppers with
more classic styles.  “This isn’t about laying people off to get synergies,” he
said. “We have tremendous opportunities to learn from each
other. The synergies are in sales and marketing and by growing
the business.”  Men’s Wearhouse rose 2 percent to $46.24 at the close in
 New York . Jos. A. Bank fell 0.4 percent to $48.86.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in New York at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Julie Alnwick at 
 jalnwick@bloomberg.net  