-- JPMorgan Admits the Obvious: We Were Reckless
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-10-16T21:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/jpmorgan-admits-the-obvious-we-were-reckless.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s chief
executive officer,  Jamie Dimon , initially called the bank’s
“London whale” trading debacle a “tempest in a teapot.” Some
teapot. Today the bank agreed to pay $100 million to  settle  an
action brought by the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. But
more important than that relatively modest sum is the bank’s
admission that its traders were “recklessly aggressive.”  The new settlement brings to more than $1 billion the
 penalties  the bank has had to pay for the London whale and, with
more cases to come, that figure could grow. The real news,
though, is that after decades of allowing companies to “neither
admit nor deny” wrongdoing when settling cases, regulators are
insisting that they admit guilt.  JPMorgan’s concessions in today’s CFTC case and last
month’s Securities and Exchange Commission settlement signal
that Wall Street firms no longer can flout the law and then, if
caught, dismiss the resulting penalties as a cost of doing
business. This is a sea change in U.S.  law enforcement , one with
far-reaching consequences.  A mea culpa in the CFTC case exposes JPMorgan to client and
shareholder lawsuits for having built, then unloaded, huge
trading positions that distorted the normal supply and demand
signposts in the market. The bank’s London investment office,
operating much like a  hedge fund , accumulated a $157 billion
position in credit-derivative indexes, which track the default
risk of baskets of corporate debt.  On one day in February 2012, the bank’s traders dumped more
than $7 billion of swaps -- more than 90 percent of the volume
in the market that day. In doing so, the bank disregarded the
distorting effect on the broader market, the CFTC said,
potentially harming investors and others who relied on the
indexes to hedge. The positions ultimately blew up, costing
JPMorgan more than $6 billion in 2012.  The admission to the CFTC goes further than the  admission 
in the SEC case, so it sets a more potent precedent. At issue in
the SEC action were managerial lapses. The SEC said JPMorgan
violated securities laws that require companies to have adequate
controls and governance standards. Admitting to poor management
is weaker than conceding that  credit derivatives  were used with
reckless aggression.  The CFTC is also signaling a willingness to make maximum
use of the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. The  law  lets the agency sue
banks that use instruments, including derivatives, as a
“manipulative device.” This doesn’t require regulators to
prove intent to manipulate, so cases are easier to bring and to
press to a successful conclusion.  This easier standard is two-edged: It may limit JPMorgan’s
civil liability. Admitting to reckless use of a credit
derivative as a manipulative device lacks the clarity and punch
of an admission of deliberate market manipulation. Civil
liability can play an important reinforcing role in law
enforcement if it makes managers pay closer attention to the
actions of employees.  Still, the new precedents are good news for investors at
risk in markets that can be swamped by the actions of Wall
Street’s giants. Best of all is curbing the practice of settling
cases without an admission of wrongdoing. That will make the
markets safer for all.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 