-- Kim Dotcom Campaign Donation Fells Minister in N.Z. Government
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t
-- 2013-10-16T19:38:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/kim-dotcom-campaign-donation-fells-minister-in-n-z-government.html
A campaign donation by Internet
entrepreneur and alleged copyright pirate Kim Dotcom has forced
the resignation of a New Zealand government minister.  John Banks resigned yesterday as minister for regulatory
reform and small business after the Auckland District Court
ordered him to stand trial over allegations of electoral fraud
relating to Dotcom’s NZ$50,000 ($42,000) donation.  Banks is accused of knowingly filing a false election
return in his failed 2010 Auckland mayoral bid, listing
donations from Dotcom and casino operator SkyCity Entertainment
Group Ltd. as anonymous when he knew who they were from -- an
offense under the Electoral Act. He denies the allegations.  Banks’s resignation as a minister in Prime Minister John Key’s government is the latest twist in Dotcom’s New Zealand
story. Armed police stormed the German’s Auckland mansion in
January last year after the U.S. alleged his Megaupload cloud-storage Internet site was at the center of the biggest copyright
infringement case in its history. Key was later forced to
apologize to Dotcom -- who still faces extradition to the U.S. -
- over the government’s illegal spying on him.  Dotcom gave evidence that Banks asked him to split his
donation into two NZ$25,000 checks after Banks was flown in
Dotcom’s private helicopter to his mansion in 2010, Fairfax
Media reported.  Helicopter Ride  “I was offended, I don’t mind if people know,” Dotcom
told the court, according to Fairfax. Banks told him, “Kim, if
I help you in the future it’s better no one knows about your
donation,” Fairfax quoted Dotcom as saying.  Banks has said he can’t recall the helicopter ride and is
innocent of the charges.  “I have nothing to fear and I have nothing to hide,” he
told state broadcaster Television New Zealand yesterday.  Banks is the leader of the ACT Party, which supports Key’s
minority government. Banks did not hold a Cabinet-level position
and remains in parliament, meaning the resignation of his
portfolios doesn’t pose a risk to the government.  “Mr Banks maintains his innocence but realizes this is a
distraction for the government,’’ Key said in a statement
yesterday. “If Mr Banks is successful on appeal or proved to be
not guilty at trial, it is my intention to reinstate him as a
minister.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Wellington at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  