-- Kinder Morgan Quarterly Profit Rises on Gas Pipelines
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2013-10-16T21:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/kinder-morgan-third-quarter-profit-rises-on-oil-prices.html
Kinder Morgan  Energy Partners LP,
the second-biggest U.S. pipeline company by market value, said
third-quarter earnings rose on increased natural gas shipments
on its expanded network.  Net income increased to $689 million from $405 million a
year earlier, Houston-based Kinder Morgan said in a statement
today. After payments made to  Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI) , its parent
company, Kinder Morgan earned 59 cents per unit, compared with a
6-cent loss a year ago.  “Our El Paso and Copano transactions have significantly
increased our natural gas footprint in the  United States , and
KMP is well positioned to play a leading role in building and
expanding infrastructure required to connect developing natural
gas supplies to markets,” Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
 Richard Kinder  said in the statement.  Kinder Morgan completed its $3.2 billion acquisition of
Copano Energy LLC in May, giving it control of 6,900 miles
(11,100 kilometers) of gas pipelines in Texas, Oklahoma and
Wyoming. In September, Kinder Morgan and Valero Energy Corp.
placed into service their 141-mile Parkway Pipeline, which can
carry as much as 110,000 barrels a day of refined oil products
to Collins, Mississippi, from Norco, Louisiana.  Earnings from the gas pipelines business unit, before
certain items, jumped 59 percent to $608 million from a year
ago, according to the statement. Revenue climbed 31 percent to
$3.3 billion from $2.5 billion. Distributable  cash flow , a
measure of the company’s ability to pay distributions to its
unitholders, rose 22 percent to $554 million, excluding certain
items.  Enterprise Products Partners LP is the largest U.S.
pipeline company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  