-- Knight Capital Agrees to $12 Million Settlement for 2012 Errors
-- B y   S a m   M a m u d i
-- 2013-10-16T18:06:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/knight-capital-agrees-to-pay-12-million-fine-for-2012-errors.html
Securities regulators fined Knight
Capital Americas LLC $12 million for the trading malfunction
that roiled the U.S. stock market in August 2012, saying the
firm ignored dozens of error messages before its computers
bombarded exchanges with millions of unintended orders.  Knight, which in July joined with Getco LLC to form  KCG
Holdings Inc. (KCG)  after losing more than $460 million because of the
error, agreed to settle charges stemming from mistakes made on
Aug. 1, 2012, according to a  statement  today from the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The regulator said Knight
violated the SEC’s market access rule, instituted in 2010 to
prevent these kinds of trading missteps.  The administrative order outlining the settlement painted
Knight not as a victim of computers gone haywire, but as a firm
that failed to test its systems adequately or prepare for
potential breakdowns. Knight’s mistakes led to it making more
than 4 million trades in response to only 212 orders from
investors, for a total of 397 million shares changing hands.
That prompted the losses that brought Knight to its knees.  “Knight’s system of risk management controls and
supervisory procedures was not reasonably designed to manage the
risk of its market access,” the SEC said in the  order  released
today. “Knight’s internal reviews were inadequate, its annual
CEO certification for 2012 was defective, and its written
description of its risk management controls was insufficient.”  Messages Ignored  The SEC found that Jersey City, New Jersey-based Knight
didn’t have adequate safeguards, didn’t act on error messages,
and didn’t have guidelines for responding to such issues. The
mistakes were the result of human, not computer, errors, said
Daniel Hawke, chief of the SEC Division of Enforcement’s Market
Abuse Unit.  The SEC sees a distinction between “calling something a
glitch that is inevitable in many technology systems and
applications versus something that is about failure to adopt
controls that are reasonably designed to manage the risks
associated, in this case, with market access,” Hawke said
during a conference call today with reporters.  Knight’s system generated 97 e-mails alerting staff to
problems before the markets opened on Aug. 1, 2012, the SEC
said. These notifications were not acted upon by employees of
the broker-dealer, according to the regulator.  “Although  Knight Capital  did not design these messages to
be system alerts, they provided an opportunity to identify and
fix the problem before the markets opened,” the SEC said.  Knight’s losses required it to seek emergency financing and
ultimately merge with Getco.  ‘Rapid Pace’  “Given the rapid pace of trading in today’s markets and
the potential massive impact of control breakdowns, broker-dealers must be held to the high standards of compliance
necessary for the safe and orderly operation of the markets,”
Andrew Ceresney, co-director of the SEC’s Division of
Enforcement, said in the statement announcing the settlement.  “We are pleased to put the events that occurred at Knight
Capital on Aug. 1, 2012, behind us,” Sophie Sohn, a KCG
spokeswoman, said in an e-mail. “KCG is a new company formed
from the transformational merger between Knight and Getco
earlier this year. KCG is committed to employing best-in-class
risk management processes.”  In a client letter seen by Bloomberg News, KCG outlined the
changes it has made to address some of the shortcomings
highlighted by the SEC. The firm now has a 24-hour risk
management center with staff from all its units, automated
alerts, stronger testing and certification to ensure it complies
with market access rules, and a chief risk officer, KCG Chief
Executive Officer Daniel Coleman told clients in the message.  New Controls  “We have developed and implemented a layered system of
automated controls to monitor trading at numerous junctures
within the system and automatically shut down trading activity
at predetermined thresholds,” he wrote.  While today’s action is the SEC’s first under the market
access rule, it will be an important area of enforcement in the
future, Ceresney told reporters during today’s conference call.  “Investors should know that we will enforce the market
access rule vigorously,” he said. “Companies must have
controls in place to guard against mistakes and the consequences
of such mistakes.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sam Mamudi in  New York  at 
 smamudi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  