-- N.Y. Gambling Referendum Language Suit Dismissed by Judge
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2013-10-16T16:52:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/n-y-gambling-referendum-language-suit-dismissed-by-judge.html
A judge threw out a legal challenge
to the wording of a referendum to go to voters next month that
would authorize casino gambling’s expansion in New York state.  Judge  Richard Platkin  of state Supreme Court in  Albany 
dismissed the suit today. He rejected claims that the  ballot ’s
wording was slanted in favor of the measure and that the state
Board of Elections violated an open-meetings law in adopting it.  The suit was filed by Brooklyn lawyer Eric J. Snyder, who
says he opposes the proliferation of gambling in New York.
Snyder said the ballot’s statement that the measure is designed
to promote job growth and increase aid to schools will advocate
a “yes” vote using public funds, in violation of the state
constitution.  Platkin ruled that the claim of improper advocacy was
barred by the statute of limitations and a claim that the Board
of Elections exceeded its authority was “both untimely and
lacking in legal merit.”  The judge also rejected the claim that the board violated
the state’s open-meetings law by holding the vote on the ballot
language in secret. That accusation was disproved by
“documentary evidence” including a transcript of the meeting
in July, Platkin wrote.  Under state law, gambling measures must be approved in two
consecutive legislative sessions, followed by a referendum.
Lawmakers last year passed Governor Andrew Cuomo’s plan to open
seven casinos to boost the upstate economy and ratified it in
June. The election is Nov. 5.  Appeal Planned  Snyder said today he plans to appeal Platkin’s ruling. He
was “shocked” that the court rejected his claim that the vote
was held in secret since the Board of Elections didn’t ask for
that claim to be dismissed, he said.  “Ignoring the attorney general’s recommendation, the Board
of Elections changed the neutrally worded casino amendment by
adding language to gain voter support,” Snyder said in an e-mail. “The additional language was not changed at an open
public meeting as required by law and the board waited almost
four weeks, after the time period to raise a court challenge had
passed, before making the new wording public.”  Cuomo’s office didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment on the ruling.  The measure would create two rounds of casino licensing,
the first calling for four facilities upstate. Seven years after
those licenses were sold, the second round would permit another
three casinos in locations to be determined. Nassau and Suffolk
counties on Long Island would also each get a video-slot
facility.  “We’re pleased that the judge accepted our argument that
the counties can move forward with the election process,” Tom
Connolly, a spokesman for the Board of Elections, said in a
telephone interview.  The case is Snyder v. Walsh, 5449/2013, New York State
Supreme Court, Albany County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in state Supreme Court in  Manhattan 
at   cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 