-- Nasdaq Secures Wix.com IPO After Losing Twitter to NYSE
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n   a n d   M a t t h e w   K a n t e r m a n
-- 2013-10-16T20:31:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/nasdaq-secures-wix-com-listing-after-losing-twitter-to-nyse.html
Wix.com Ltd. (WIX) , an Israeli provider of
online tools that help create websites, will shun the New York
Stock Exchange and list its shares on the  Nasdaq  Stock Market.  “Wix is listing on Nasdaq,” Bruce Aust, executive vice-president of the Nasdaq OMX Group Inc.’s global corporate client
group, said today in an interview in Tel Aviv. “We don’t talk
about timeframes for IPOs. But they are coming to Nasdaq.”  Wix this month filed to sell as much as $100 million in
shares in the largest initial public offering by an Israeli
company in the U.S. since  SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA) ’s 2010
debut, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The Tel Aviv-based company had applied to list on the  New York  Stock
Exchange, an Oct. 1 regulatory filing showed. While Nasdaq
scored a coup by landing the Facebook Inc. IPO in 2012, it lost
Twitter Inc.’s listing to the NYSE yesterday.  Eric Mason, director of communication at Wix, declined to
comment on a decision for a Nasdaq listing, in an e-mailed
response to  Bloomberg News .  Wix will join the 61 Israeli companies listed on Nasdaq as
of Sept. 25, according to the exchange. That compares with seven
companies listed on the NYSE. While there are 13 exchanges among
the 50-some venues that trade stocks in the U.S., NYSE and
Nasdaq are currently the only two that list companies.  Shares of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd., the world’s
largest maker of generic drugs, began trading on the NYSE in May
2012 after the Petach Tikva, Israel-based company transferred
its listing from the Nasdaq.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in  Tel Aviv  at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Kanterman in New York at 
 mkanterman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  