-- Nobel Foundation Seeks Charity as Hedge Funds Aren’t Enough
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   V e r o n i c a   E k
-- 2013-10-17T09:27:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/nobel-foundation-seeks-charity-as-hedge-funds-prove-inadequate.html
The Nobel Foundation, which said
last year it was using hedge funds to help boost capital, is now
considering charitable donations after previous strategies
failed to bring in enough money.  The Stockholm-based institution, which earlier this month
rounded off its 2013 awards, cut the prize money by 20 percent
last year in an effort to preserve capital. Since then,
laureates have had to make do with 8 million kronor ($1.23
million) in each category. Lars Heikensten, executive director
of the Nobel Foundation, says he wants to raise the amount again
to restore the award’s status.  “There is a long-term problem if we want to raise the
ambition level, which I’d like to see us do,” Heikensten said
yesterday in an interview at the Nobel headquarters in the
Swedish capital. “It’ll be difficult to save more and it will
also be difficult to maintain costs at the current level. This
indicates there will be a need for more money over time.”  The Nobel Foundation, created in 1900 at the request of
Swedish industrialist Alfred Nobel to award prizes in physics,
chemistry, medicine, peace and literature, is cutting costs
after expenses outstripped income for a decade. Poor returns
over the same period were then exacerbated by the onset of the
global financial crisis. Given the circumstances, the foundation
says it had no choice but to lower the prize last year for the
first time since 1949.  Hedge Funds  Relying on hedge funds over standard equity indexes over
the past year would have resulted in relative losses. The HFRX
Global Hedge Fund Index rose 5.4 percent over the past 12
months, compared with a 17.6 percent increase in the MSCI World
Index of stocks over the same period.  The foundation “should of course continue to try to
improve our asset management, but I’m not sure that will be
enough,” Heikensten said. He didn’t say which hedge funds were
used.  The return of  7.9 percent  on invested capital in 2012 was
“a little bit better than our benchmarks,” Heikensten said.
Returns this year have so far “been better” than benchmarks,
he said.  The foundation tracks its returns against gauges that
include pension funds and other asset managers as well a so-called normal portfolio, in which equities account for 55
percent of the total and alternative investments and fixed-income instruments make up 25 percent and 20 percent,
respectively. Though it has stepped up its reliance on hedge
funds in recent years, equities continue to make up the bulk.  Nobel Banquet  The foundation had 3.1 billion kronor in investments at the
end of 2012, according to its  website . Of the total, 51 percent
was invested in equities, up from 47 percent at the end of 2011,
while 16 percent was held in fixed-income securities, down from
20 percent a year earlier. The foundation invested 33 percent in
alternative assets, unchanged from a year earlier.  Of the Nobel Foundation’s total capital, as much as 94
percent is based on the original contribution made by Alfred
Nobel.  The institution’s cost cutting measures include spending
less on the awards banquet, which takes place on Dec. 10 every
year to commemorate the anniversary of Nobel’s death. The
roughly 1,300 guests include the Swedish royal family. The
foundation targets a 20 percent reduction in costs, a goal it
hopes to reach by the end of this year, Heikensten said.  ‘Beef Up’  While the foundation has “absolutely no plans” to seek
donor capital now, it will need to explore the option “in the
coming years,” Heikensten said. Steps could include a broad
campaign globally to attract donors or to target organizations
or investors individually to “help beef up our capital,” he
said. Any arrangement must safeguard integrity and independence
of the Nobel award, he said.  Other options include making money on the Nobel brand, such
as opening more Nobel museums outside Sweden and  Norway ,
Heikensten said. The foundation is already building a new Nobel
Center on the Blasieholmen island in Stockholm. The center,
which is due to open in 2018, is being financed mainly through
donations from the Ehrling-Persson Family Foundation and the
Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.  Heikensten, a former governor of the Swedish central bank,
also said the Nobel Foundation should aim to increase the prize
amount in line with wage developments rather than inflation. The
amount today only represents about 10 times a professor’s
salary, compared with about 30 times when the prizes were
founded, he said.  World Wars  Heikensten, who became executive director in 2011, said he
doesn’t expect the prize amount to be raised during his tenure
in the coming years.  Alfred Nobel signed his will in 1895, a year before his
death, stipulating that most of his estate of more than 31
million kronor -- about 1.7 billion kronor in today’s money --
should be converted into a fund and invested in “safe
securities.”  Following two world wars, the foundation changed its
investment policy with the backing of the Swedish government in
the 1950s, after the total amount under management declined.
Since then, it has been free to invest in bonds, secured loans,
real estate and most types of stocks. This, together with a tax-exemption in 1946, helped the Nobel Foundation reverse the trend
of declining assets under management and the real value of the
prize amount in krona terms was restored by 1991.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in  Stockholm  at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Ek in Stockholm at 
 vek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  