-- Nobel Needs Grounding in Reality-Based Economics
-- B y   R o g e r   L o w e n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-16T14:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/nobel-needs-grounding-in-reality-based-economics.html
The Flat Earth Society has all but
disappeared, but the efficient-market hypothesis is alive and
well. This week, the  Nobel Memorial Prize  in Economic Sciences
was awarded to its most tenacious advocate, Eugene F. Fama of
the University of Chicago.  The  hypothesis  posits that the stock market is an
“efficient” calculating machine, and that stock prices are
rational computations of observable facts. It follows that
future prices are unpredictable.  As Fama  wrote in a version  of his doctoral thesis 48 years
ago, “If the random walk theory is valid and if security
exchanges are ‘efficient’ markets, then stock prices at any
point in time will represent good estimates of intrinsic or
fundamental values.”  This idea is contradicted by the view that human behavior
is often irrational (or imperfect) and that, therefore, the
market not infrequently gets it wrong. It is also contradicted
by the many investors who have exploited mispricings to beat the
market and by the many examples of investor folly or bubbles.  Robert Shiller of Yale University dubbed the efficient-market hypothesis “the most remarkable error in the history of
economic theory.” (Whoops: Shiller was one of three Nobel
economics laureates this year, along with Fama and Lars Peter Hansen.)  By trying to have it both ways, the Nobel committee missed
a chance to confirm that observed experience has undermined a
beguiling but simplistic theory that has charmed the economics
profession.  Irrational Passions  The efficient-market crowd contends that successful
investors such as  Warren Buffett  are merely lucky; let enough
people flip coins and someone will keep rolling heads, even over
a period of decades. Behaviorialists (including me) point out
that when the same people, following the same discipline --
patient, long-term searching out of underpriced stocks -- keep
finding profitable opportunities, it means the market is
imperfect.  For those in thrall to efficient markets, no such
opportunities can be determined in advance, because if they
could, smart people would have exploited the opportunity until
it disappeared. (You know the joke: An economics professor
stoops to pick up a $20 bill, and his colleague says, “Don’t
bother; if it were really $20, it wouldn’t be there.”)  At root are two contrary views of human nature. One sees
investors as counting machines, the ever-rational subspecies
known as Homo economicus. But people succumb to irrational
passions in love and war and religion and politics -- so why not
in economics?  Behavioral economists such as Shiller and Richard Thaler,
Nobel-winning psychologist  Daniel Kahneman , and others have
demonstrated that there are repeated patterns to people’s
irrationality. One of the most common is that most people simply
follow the crowd instead of calculating the intrinsic value of a
stock. This is why bubbles occur.  The controversy has huge ramifications. If markets are
perfect, stock-picking doesn’t make sense. Everyone should just
index their portfolios.  It also affects government. If you believe in rational
actors, there is no need to regulate against mass folly (only
against chicanery).  This belief in rational actors has handcuffed the Federal
Reserve. Former Chairman Alan Greenspan slept through the
investor folly of the late 1990s, when the stock market put
multibillion-dollar valuations on dot-com companies that were
nothing more than business plans.  Bubble Resistance  Greenspan refused to try to deflate the bubble because he
didn’t believe that masses of investors would be foolish, or
that such manias could be identified in advance. The current Fed
chief, Ben S. Bernanke, then a Princeton University scholar,
took the same position. Both repeated this mistake during the
mortgage buildup. Neither placed emphasis on regulating
mortgages because neither believed that bankers would succumb to
mass folly.  The 1987 stock market crash, when the Dow Jones Industrial
Average fell 22.6 percent in the absence of major news, should
have dealt a death blow to the efficient-market hypothesis. But
it didn’t. Fama and others argued that the crash reflected a
rational repricing of expected corporate values. Similarly,
after the mortgage meltdown, Fama  was quoted  in the New Yorker
as saying, “I don’t even know what a bubble means.” In other
words, the market wasn’t -- and couldn’t be -- wrong. The high
price was as rational as the new one. Shiller, who surveyed
investors after the 1987 crash, spotted something other than
rationality: mass hysteria.  If behavioral theory, with its messy, imperfect view of
investors, has won in the real world, the efficient-market
hypothesis has long been trumps in academia as an elegant theory
that offers a pleasingly ordered view of the world. People are
deductive; prices are rational. Modern finance is built on
mathematical models designed around a presumption of efficient
and random markets.  Defenders of rational markets often point out that most
investors don’t beat the market indexes. There is less to this
observation than there initially seems. First, it is a truism
that the average investor will have average performance. Second,
the existence of occasional inefficiencies doesn’t mean that
beating the market is easy. It requires work, analysis, patience
and the fortitude to resist trends. Most stocks are probably
priced about right most of the time. It’s the investor’s job to
find the ones that aren’t.  Then there is the claim that markets are random “in the
short run.” This is true but also not very important. For
instance, even at the height of the dot-com bubble, no one could
say what would happen over the next hour, day or week. But
investors could nonetheless calculate that tech stocks were
overpriced and would crash sooner or later.  ‘Serious Doubt’  Robert C. Merton, who won an economics Nobel in 1997 for
his work in options theory, recognized how incompatible the two
views are. “If Shiller’s rejection of market efficiency is
sustained,” he wrote in 1986, “then serious doubt is cast on
the validity of this cornerstone of modern financial economic
theory.”  Merton was rudely validated some years later, when he was a
partner at Long-Term Capital Management LP, which, like many
other hedge-fund managers, used an assumption of randomness in
its risk-exposure models. Those calculations turned out to be
way off. Markets moved in the wrong direction, in very nonrandom
ways, and the fund collapsed in 1998.  The fact that markets can move nonrandomly was documented
in 1965 by none other than Eugene Fama. In that research, he
observed that stock prices exhibit many more extreme movements
than would occur in a normal, random distribution. Extreme
changes that should occur every 7,000 years, Fama wrote, “seem
to occur about once every three to four years.”  How many market shocks have to occur before people are no
longer shocked, one might ask? But at long last, the prevalence
of market bubbles seems to be denting the once-worshipful belief
in efficient markets.  Academic textbooks once preached the hypothesis with
religious fervor. Now, doubt is creeping in. N. Gregory Mankiw’s
“Principles of Economics” asks “Is the Efficient Markets
Hypothesis Kaput?”  Even Janet Yellen, who has been nominated to succeed
Bernanke, said recently that the Fed should reconsider its
traditional view that it shouldn’t attempt to pop or restrain
market bubbles. Can the Nobel committee be far behind?  (Roger Lowenstein is writing a book on the origins of the
Federal Reserve System.)  To contact the author of this article:
Roger Lowenstein at  elrogl@hotmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at  mberley@blooomberg.net . 