-- Northern Trust Profit Rises 15% as Rally Boosts Assets
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2013-10-16T11:38:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/northern-trust-profit-rises-15-as-rally-boosts-assets.html
Northern Trust Corp. (NTRS) , the third-biggest independent U.S. custody bank, said third-quarter profit
rose 15 percent as stock-market gains boosted assets.  Net income increased to $203 million, or 84 cents a share,
from $176 million, or 73 cents, a year earlier, the Chicago-based company said today in a statement. Results matched the 84-cent average estimate of 7 analysts  surveyed  by Bloomberg.  “For Northern Trust, the equity markets are the major
component” in the increase in profits, Sonia Parechanian, an
analyst in  New York  with S&P Capital IQ, said in an interview
before results were announced. About half the money Northern
invests or oversees for clients is in stocks, she said.  Northern Trust, under pressure to improve profitability
amid record-low interest rates, is benefiting as global equity
markets climb for the second straight year. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Frederick H. Waddell followed larger rivals
Bank of New York Mellon Corp. and  State Street Corp. (STT)  with job
cuts in 2012 that, combined with technology initiatives, are
designed to lift annual pretax income by $250 million by the end
of this year.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks rose 5.2
percent, including reinvested dividends, in the third quarter,
and the MSCI ACWI Index of global stocks surged 8.1 percent. The
 S&P 500  and the MSCI index both rose 19 percent in the 12 months
ended Sept. 30.  Low Rates  Low interest rates hurt custody banks by reducing the
returns they make on lending and on their own investments. The
U.S. Federal Reserve has held its benchmark  interest rate  at
zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 in an attempt to
stimulate borrowing and economic growth.  Custody banks keep records, track performance and lend
securities for institutional investors, including mutual funds,
pension funds and  hedge funds . Northern Trust also manages
investments for individuals and institutions.  Results were announced before the start of regular U.S.
trading. Northern Trust gained 8.6 percent this year through
yesterday, compared with a 29 percent advance by the Standard &
Poor’s 20-company  index  of asset managers and custody banks.  (Northern Trust is scheduled to hold a conference call for
investors at noon New York time. The call can be accessed at
 www.northerntrust/financialreleases .)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  