-- Norway Names Jensen Finance Minister After Oil Spending Deal
-- B y   S a l e h a   M o h s i n
-- 2013-10-16T09:02:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/norway-names-jensen-finance-minister-after-oil-spending-accord.html
Progress Party leader Siv Jensen,
who has fought to end rules limiting expenditure of Norway’s oil
wealth, will become the main guarantor of fiscal responsibility
as she takes the helm at the  Finance Ministry .  Jensen, 44, whose party is entering government for the
first time, was today named finance minister in Prime Minister
Erna Solberg’s Conservative-led coalition. Tord Lien, 38, also
of the Progress Party, was appointed energy minister of western
Europe’s largest oil producer and the Conservatives’ Monica
Maeland, 45, was named industry minister. Boerge Brende, 48,
also from the  Conservative Party , will be foreign minister.  While Jensen used the run-up election campaign to argue for
a laxer approach to fiscal policy, she has since agreed to abide
by existing rules. As finance minister, she will have little
choice other than to reflect policies set by the government,
said Erica Blomgren, chief strategist for SEB AB.  “We’ve already seen that the Progress Party is backing
down on their comments to not stick to the fiscal rule,”
Blomgren said. “Fiscal stimulus will be a bit more expansionary
once the new government takes office and submits their
supplementary budget proposals, which is reasonable considering
the slowdown in growth.”  Tax Cuts  Solberg’s two-party minority coalition last month ousted
Jens Stoltenberg’s Labor-led government, which had guided the
nation through the financial crisis by increasing spending while
keeping unemployment at the lowest rate in  Europe . The new
government has promised tax cuts and more spending. The
Conservatives have also assured voters they will stick to
existing rules that temper the use of oil money to avoid
overheating.  Jensen, an Oslo native, will have until the start of next
month to revise a budget that was presented on Oct. 14 by the
outgoing government. Stoltenberg’s administration resigned this
week after presenting what it called a “cautious” budget,
saying it would use 2.9 percent, or 135 billion kroner ($22
billion) of its $790 billion wealth fund to plug deficits in
2014, equal to 5.5 percent of trended mainland gross domestic
product.  Modest Means  That leaves Jensen with 54 billion kroner to spend before
the government breaches the fiscal rule that caps spending to 4
percent of the oil fund.  “Siv will do an excellent job and I look forward to
working closely with her,” Solberg said at a press conference
in Oslo today. In total, Solberg named 17 ministers today.  Jensen, who started full-time in politics in 1994 and
joined parliament in 1996, takes charge of an economy whose
growth rate is stagnating just as Europe surfaces from a decade
of economic pain. The central bank predicts  Norway ’s mainland
economy will expand 1.75 percent this year and 2.25 percent in
2014, after growing 3.4 percent in 2012.  Jensen took over as Progress Party leader from Carl I.
Hagen, who led the party for 28 years. The group, which also has
campaigned to restrict immigration, was formed as an anti-tax
movement in 1973.  Jensen, who is unmarried and has no children, grew up under
modest means, helping to support her mother who ran a cleaning
and ironing business, according to a profile in the Great
Norwegian Encyclopedia. Before entering politics, she worked as
a sales consultant for a radio station.  Jensen received an economics degree from Norway’s School of
Economics in 1992. She rose to the party’s top after becoming
involved locally in Oslo politics.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Saleha Mohsin in Oslo  at 
 smohsin2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at 
 jbergman@bloomberg.net  