-- NTSB Begins Probe of Spirit Airlines Engine Failure
-- B y   A l a n   L e v i n   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2013-10-16T23:42:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/ntsb-begins-probe-of-spirit-airlines-engine-failure.html
An engine failure aboard a  Spirit
Airlines Inc. (SAVE)  plane is being probed by the U.S. National
Transportation Safety Board, which is recalling some employees
furloughed in the U.S. government shutdown that began Oct. 1.  Debris from the engine escaped through its hardened case,
in what’s known as an uncontained failure, Thomas Zoeller, a
safety board spokesman, said in an interview. Uncontained
failures must be reported to the NTSB and are considered more
dangerous than other engine malfunctions.  The Federal Aviation Administration is also investigating,
Laura Brown, an agency spokeswoman, said in an interview.  Spirit Flight 165, an Airbus A319 carrying 150 people, had
mechanical difficulties and smoke filled the cabin shortly after
takeoff yesterday from  Dallas /Fort Worth International Airport,
Misty Pinson, a spokeswoman for the Miramar, Florida-based
airline, said by e-mail.  The failed engine was shut down and the plane returned to
Dallas, Pinson said. No one was injured aboard the flight to
Atlanta, she said. The airline is cooperating with the safety
board, she said.  No Fire  The plane, which landed at 2:19 p.m., was met by airport
emergency teams, who found no sign of fire,  David Magana , an
airport spokesman, said by e-mail.  The motor was an International Aero Engines AG V2500,
Heather Waldron, a spokeswoman for the East Hartford,
Connecticut-based company said by e-mail. IAE is a partnership
between  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) ’s Pratt & Whitney unit,
Japanese Aero Engine Corp. and MTU Aero Engines in Germany.  Mary Anne Greczyn, an Airbus spokeswoman in Herndon,
 Virginia , said she didn’t have any details of the incident and
referred questions to Spirit.  The NTSB recalled crash investigators from furloughs to
respond and will send them to Dallas. It will examine the
plane’s flight recorders as part of its probe, Zoeller said.  The NTSB has had to keep investigators away from at least
13 transportation accidents, including six aircraft crashes,
because of the partial U.S. government shutdown, Chairman
 Deborah Hersman  told the Senate Commerce Committee on Oct. 11.  The agency had to put 383 of its 405 employees on leave
without pay, Hersman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alan Levin in  Washington  at 
 alevin24@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  