-- Batista’s OGX Surges Amid $200 Million Bailout Speculation
-- B y   J u l i a   L e i t e
-- 2013-10-16T21:01:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/ogx-rises-most-on-record-amid-200-million-bailout-speculation.html
OGX Petroleo & Gas Participacoes SA,
 Eike Batista ’s oil company, surged a third day amid speculation
it will get a capital injection from investors as its negotiates
to restructure debt after firing its chief executive officer.  The shares surged as much as 59 percent to 54 centavos,
more than doubling in value over the past three days. The stock
closed at 47 centavos in  Sao Paulo , contributing the  most  to the
Ibovespa’s 1.8 percent advance. Trading volume was 3.9 times the
three-month daily average.  The company will get a $200 million capital injection from
investors, O Estado de S. Paulo and Valor Economico reported
separately today, without naming them or saying how they got the
information. OGX said in a statement yesterday that it nominated
Paulo Narcelio Simoes Amaral to replace Luiz Carneiro as CEO.
Amaral, a former Brasil Telecom SA chief financial officer, was
hired as OGX’s chief financial officer last month and will keep
the position.  “For the first time, the market is seeing a solution for
the company that doesn’t involve judicial reorganization or
bankruptcy,” Luana Helsinger, an analyst at GBM Grupo Bursatil
Mexicano, said in a phone interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  A $200 million capital injection would help OGX develop its
 oil fields , Helsinger said. The company needs to cover costs
until it starts production at its next offshore oil project
before the end of the year.  Missed Payment  Batista’s flagship oil producer burned through about $7.2
million in cash a day in the 12 months through June 30 and was
set to run out of funds last month, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  OGX declined to comment on the capital-injection reports in
an e-mailed response to questions from  Bloomberg News .  The oil producer missed a $45 million bond payment Oct. 1.
and has been negotiating with debt holders. A default of the
$3.6 billion international bonds due in 2018 and 2022 would be
the region’s biggest, according to data compiled by Moody’s
Investors Service.  OGX is considering filing for  bankruptcy protection  within
a month after missing the bond payment, two people with direct
knowledge of the matter said this month. The bankruptcy filing
would be done in Rio de Janeiro, said the people, asking not to
be identified as discussions are private.  The company said in a statement yesterday that it hired Sao
Paulo-based Angra Partners as a “restructuring” consultant.
Angra was already an adviser to EBX Group, Batista’s holding
company. OGX’s other advisers include Blackstone Group LP and
Lazard Ltd.  Net Worth  Batista, who has taken six companies public since 2006, is
selling assets ranging from oilfields to ports after his net
worth slumped by more than $30 billion since early 2012 in a
selloff spurred by missed targets and rising debt.  OSX Brasil SA, Batista’s shipbuilding company, also climbed
today as the company was said to be renegotiating loans. The
shares advanced 12 percent to 82 centavos, pushing this month’s
gain to 39 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julia Leite in  New York  at 
 jleite3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  