-- Mol Slides to Two-Year Low on Norway Fund Report: Budapest Mover
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2013-10-16T12:54:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/mol-slides-to-two-year-low-on-norway-fund-report-budapest-mover.html
Mol Nyrt. dropped to the lowest
level in two years after Napi Gazdasag reported Norway’s
sovereign wealth fund may review investments in the Hungarian
oil refiner embroiled in a corruption probe in  Croatia .  The shares slid 3.4 percent to 14,745 forint by 1:55 p.m.
in Budapest, the weakest level since October 2011. About 408,000
securities changed hands, more than six times the three-month
daily average. Mol led declines in the benchmark BUX stock
 index , which retreated 1.1 percent.  Norges Bank Investment Management may review its holding in
Mol because of the fund’s ethics rules, the Hungarian business
newspaper said, without citing anyone. Mol’s stock is down 7.8
percent since Croatia issued an arrest warrant against Chairman
 Zsolt Hernadi  on Oct. 1 as part of a bribery probe into the 2009
deal that gave the refiner control of Zagreb-based INA
Industrija Nafte DD. The fund won’t comment on specific
investments, spokeswoman Marthe Skaar said by phone today.  “The market is already nervous about Mol because the INA
case is dragging on without any positive developments,” Balint Torok, a Budapest-based analyst at Buda-Cash Brokerhaz Zrt.,
said by phone. “In such an environment, the possibility of
another big seller emerging spooked the market.”  The world’s largest wealth fund had almost 1.7 million Mol
shares, or 1.6 percent of  all outstanding stock , as of the end
of last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Napi Gazdasag report is “pure speculation,” state-run
news service MTI reported, citing Domokos Szollar, a spokesman
at Mol. Szollar’s office didn’t immediately answer phone calls
and an e-mail from Bloomberg seeking comment.  Local Probe  Mol has denied wrongdoing in the INA deal. A Hungarian
court rejected the warrant against Hernadi, saying local
prosecutors had conducted an investigation into the deal and
found no evidence of criminal activity by Mol or its executives.
The refiner, which  owns  49.1 percent of INA, is in talks with
the Croatian government over management rights in the unit.  Gyorgy Mosonyi, the chairman of Mol’s supervisory board,
sold 15,000 shares at an average price of 15,350 forint, Mol
said in a  statement  on the Budapest Stock Exchange website after
the end of trading yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Wojciech Moskwa at 
 wmoskwa@bloomberg.net  