-- Builder Sentiment in U.S. Shaken by Budget Battle: Economy
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2013-10-16T20:25:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/homebuilder-sentiment-in-u-s-shaken-by-budget-battle-economy.html
Confidence among U.S. homebuilders
fell to a four-month low in October, underscoring the toll that
partisan brinkmanship in  Washington  and the federal government
shutdown are exacting on the economy.  The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo  index 
of builder sentiment decreased to 55 this month from a revised
57 in September that was weaker than initially estimated, the
Washington-based group reported today. Readings above 50 mean
more builders view conditions as good than poor.  The figures show a partial government closing that began
Oct. 1 and a political showdown over raising the nation’s
borrowing limit are sapping sentiment and prompting companies
and consumers to put off spending decisions.  Mortgage rates 
close to a two-year high are also slowing gains in real estate,
which has been a source of strength for the expansion.  “The economy is grappling with this near-term shock from
the drama in Washington,” said  Ryan Wang , an economist at HSBC
Securities USA Inc. in  New York  and the top forecaster of the
homebuilder index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
“Sure you can blame the shutdown, but there’s another factor,
which is the rise in  interest rates .”  The median forecast in a Bloomberg  survey  called for a
decline to 57. Estimates of 48 economists ranged from 54 to 60
after a previously reported September reading of 58.  Stocks Climb  Stocks rallied, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
toward a record, as the Senate crafted a deal to end the
government shutdown and raise the debt ceiling. The  S&P 500  rose
1.4 percent to 1,721.54 at the close in New York.  Four Federal Reserve districts reported slower economic
growth, while the remaining eight said the expansion held steady
amid “uncertainty” from the U.S. fiscal deadlock, the central
bank said today. Growth remained “modest to moderate” as
 consumer spending  maintained gains and business investment grew,
the Fed said in its Beige Book business survey.  “It’s unclear how quickly the economy will bounce back,”
Wang said. The government shutdown “should be a temporary
shock.”  Stabilization in the European economy will help American
companies and the expansion. In the U.K., claims for
 unemployment benefits  fell last month by the most since June
1997, data today from the  Office for National Statistics  in
London showed.  Mortgage Applications  Another report today from the  Mortgage Bankers Association 
in Washington showed mortgage applications for  home purchases  in
the U.S. declined 4.8 percent last week to the lowest level this
year.  All three components of the National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo survey deteriorated in October. The group’s
measure of the sales outlook for the next  six months  fell to a
four-month low of 62 from 64 in September.  Prospective  buyer traffic  also reached the lowest level
since June, falling to 44 this month from 46. The gauge of
 current  single-family home sales decreased to 58 from 60.  Builder confidence weakened in three of the four U.S.
regions, with companies in the Northeast, which includes the
Washington area, showing the greatest deterioration. The index
for the region declined to 31, the lowest level since April.
Optimism also wavered in the South and West.  Interest Rates  Borrowing costs for homebuyers have been rising since May.
The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 4.23 percent
for the week ended Oct. 10, compared with 3.39 percent a year
ago, according to  Freddie Mac (FMCC) , in McLean, Virginia. In August,
the rate reached a two-year high of 4.58 percent and held close
to that level through mid-September.  At the same time, sustained buyer demand has outpaced the
number of homes on the market, driving prices up to the benefit
of builders such as  Hovnanian Enterprises Inc. (HOV)  and mortgage
lenders including  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)   The housing market “continues to demonstrate strong
momentum,” said  John Stumpf , chairman and chief executive
officer of San Francisco-based Wells Fargo, the largest U.S.
home lender. “Home price appreciation remains strong and
affordability remains excellent.”  While the government shutdown could harm bank customers and
damage the economy in the near term, Stumpf expressed “guarded
optimism” in the long run.  “Housing is getting better,” he said on an Oct. 11
earnings call. “For our country, I feel it’s important for our
leaders in Washington to set aside partisan differences, break
the logjam and find workable solutions that are in the best
interest of our nation and our economy.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in Washington at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  