-- Honduras Books World Cup Soccer Berth, Sending Mexico to Playoff
-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 2013-10-16T04:14:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/honduras-books-world-cup-soccer-berth-sending-mexico-to-playoff.html
Honduras booked a place at next
year’s soccer  World Cup , condemning  Mexico  to a playoff as it
seeks a sixth straight appearance at the global championship.  Honduras tied 2-2 against Jamaica, while Mexico lost 2-1 in
 Costa Rica  last night in the final round of group qualifiers in
the  North and Central America and the Caribbean  region. In the
other match, the U.S. scored twice in stoppage time at the end
of the game to win 3-2 and prevent  Panama  from snatching the
playoff place from Mexico on total goals scored.  The U.S. and Costa Rica had previously claimed berths at
the 32-nation World Cup, scheduled from June 12 to July 13 in
 Brazil . With Honduras taking the final automatic spot, Mexico
now faces a two-game series against  New Zealand  for another
place at the tournament. Mexico will host the first game on Nov.
13 or 14, with the return game Nov. 20 in New Zealand.  Mexico was minutes from elimination after Panama, which has
never qualified for the World Cup, took a 2-1 lead against the
U.S. with an 83rd minute goal. A win for Panama coupled with a
loss for Mexico would have given Panama the playoff spot.  The U.S., which has played at every World Cup since 1990,
topped the standings with 22 points from 10 games, followed by
Costa Rica with 18 points, Honduras with 15 and Mexico with 11.  The U.S. fell behind in Panama City to an 18th-minute
curling shot by  Gabriel Torres . Michael Orozco tied it in the
64th minute and Luis Tejada put Panama 2-1 up with seven minutes
left. Graham Zusi tied it for the U.S. in the second minute of
added time and Aron Johansson got the winner a minute later.  Brian Ruiz gave host Costa Rica the lead after 26 minutes
in  San Jose  and Oribe Peralta tied it three minutes later for
Mexico, which last missed the World Cup in 1990. Alvaro Saborio
restored the home team’s lead in the 64th minute.  Honduras opened the scoring in the first minute in Kingston
and Je-Vaughn Watson tied it two minutes later for Jamaica.
Maynor Figueroa restored the visiting team’s lead after 33
minutes and it was 2-2 when Rodolph Austin scored from the
penalty spot 13 minutes into the second half.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas  at
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 