-- Hong Kong Lawmakers Vote Down No-Confidence Motion on Leung
-- B y   S a n d i   L i u   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2013-10-17T03:58:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/hong-kong-lawmakers-vote-down-no-confidence-motion-on-leung-1-.html
Hong Kong  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying survived a no-confidence motion in the city’s
legislature yesterday, with opposition lawmakers failing to
capitalize on his falling popularity.  The motion moved by the Civic Party’s Kwok Kai Ki was
declared unsuccessful, according to a posting on the  website  of
the city’s Legislative Council.  Leung has faced constant demands from opposition lawmakers
to step down since taking office in July 2012, as they
criticized him for having illegal additions to his property and
failing to provide a road map for democracy. China’s leadership
has backed Leung, the last chief executive to be picked by a
select committee before universal suffrage promised in 2017.  Popular discontent in Hong Kong has soared as the city
grapples with a record wealth gap and a doubling in housing
prices since 2009. Leung has raised minimum wages, imposed
property curbs, and increased spending on the elderly to win
support.  A University of Hong Kong poll showed Leung’s support
rating at 48.1 last month, a drop of 1.3 percentage points from
a survey in September. The poll of 1,009 people conducted Oct.
3-8 had a margin of error of 0.8%.  The no-confidence motion was voted down 17-9 among Hong
Kong’s functional constituencies, negating a 15-17 vote by
geographical constituencies, according to Legislative Council’s
website. Lawmakers in geographical constituencies are elected by
popular vote, while those in the functional areas are
representatives of businesses, industries and professions.  Political Consultations  The government aims to start political consultations by the
end of this year after forming a reforms task force to be headed
by Chief Secretary Carrie Lam, Leung told lawmakers during a
question and answer session in the legislature today.  Leung is facing rising calls to start public consultations
and implement electoral reforms.  China  has pledged to introduce
universal suffrage to Hong Kong by 2017. Leung and his two
predecessors were chosen by a committee.  The city’s government has yet to reveal procedural details
of the 2017 election. Allowing for a full exercise in democracy
in Hong Kong will contrast with the political system in China,
which has been ruled by the Communist Party since 1949.  Leung is scheduled to deliver his 2014 policy address Jan.
15, according to a government  statement  today.  China, which took back sovereignty over Hong Kong from the
U.K. in 1997, said the city doesn’t need assistance from British
or any other foreign governments to bring in universal suffrage.  Hugo Swire, a minister in the U.K.’s Foreign Office, last
month published comments his country offers its support.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sandi Liu in Hong Kong at 
 sliu60@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  