-- Hong Kong Has ‘No Intention’ to Remove Currency Peg, Tsang Says
-- B y   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2013-10-16T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/hong-kong-has-no-intention-to-remove-currency-peg-tsang-says.html
The Hong Kong government “sees no
need and has no intention to change” the local currency’s peg
to the  U.S. dollar , Financial Secretary  John Tsang  said in
prepared remarks for a speech later today.  The linked  exchange rate  system, adopted 30 years ago
today, is the “cornerstone” of the city’s monetary and
financial stability, Tsang said in the notes, which were
provided to Bloomberg. The currency regime has been crucial to
helping Hong Kong’s gross domestic product grow almost 10 times
since its inception, Tsang said.  The city pegged its currency at about HK$7.80 to the U.S.
dollar on Oct. 17, 1983, to provide stability as China and the
U.K. negotiated Hong Kong’s return to Chinese rule. The Hong
Kong Monetary Authority used $15 billion of its reserves fending
off a speculative attack on the link during the 1997-8 Asian
financial crisis.  “With the  Hong Kong dollar  pegged to the U.S. dollar, it
is much easier for businesses to estimate their costs and
determine their pricing, since they need not worry about
potential losses due to fluctuations in the exchange rate,”
Tsang said. “They can also save costs for hedging against
exchange rate volatility.”  The currency link means Hong Kong’s interest-rate policy is
dictated by that of the  Federal Reserve (FDTR)  and calls for a review
have mounted since 2008 as near-zero U.S. interest rates fueled
a surge in the city’s property prices and living costs.  Eight out of 13 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg said the
Hong Kong dollar should be pegged to a basket of currencies or
the  yuan  if there is a change. The currency’s trading band could
also be widened, four said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  