-- Moody’s Flags Downgrade Risk on BMW Retreat: South Africa Credit
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2013-10-16T10:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/moody-s-flags-downgrade-risk-on-bmw-retreat-south-africa-credit.html
A year after Moody’s Investors
Service cut South Africa’s creditworthiness for the first time
since the end of apartheid, the ratings company highlighted the
risk of another downgrade as labor unrest dents growth.  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) ’s decision earlier this month
to halt expansion in Africa’s biggest economy following a three-week strike is evidence that labor strife is undermining growth,
and other companies may follow, Moody’s said in a report on Oct.
12. Moody’s last downgrade came a month before Finance Minister
Pravin Gordhan’s 2012 mid-term budget and was followed by rating
cuts by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Gordhan will update
his growth and fiscal projections on Oct. 23.  “The South African sovereign remains exposed to downgrade
risks,” Mohammed Kazmi, an emerging-markets strategist at Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said by phone from  London  yesterday.
“The curbing of investment by the likes of BMW is another
possible trigger for a downgrade. It only adds to the woes.”  Worker unrest has contributed to South Africa’s 10-year
yields climbing 77 basis points this year, the most after  Turkey 
among emerging-market nations in Europe, the Middle East and
Africa, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The nation’s
sovereign risk  premium  has soared 84 basis points, compared with
27 basis points for similarly-rated  Mexico .  Negative Outlook  Moody’s rates South African debt at Baa1, the third-lowest
investment-grade level and on par with Thailand and  Russia . S&P
downgraded the nation in October last year to BBB, its second-lowest investment grade, and Fitch followed with a similar cut
in January. Moody’s and S&P have a negative outlook on the
rating, indicating they may lower it further.  BMW, the world’s largest maker of luxury vehicles, said on
Oct. 3 it will cancel plans to expand following labor strikes
that cost the industry as much as 700 million rand ($70 million)
a day, according to the Automobile Manufacturers Employers
Association.  The move “is tangible evidence of the negative impact that
the increase in work days lost to strikes is likely to pose for
the economy,” Moody’s said. “Such decisions are likely to be
repeated by other companies when such significant losses are
incurred.”  In his February budget speech, Gordhan pledged to cut
spending to reduce the fiscal shortfall, estimated at 4.6
percent of gross domestic product for the year through March.  Economic Challenges  The Treasury won’t comment before Gordhan’s mid-term budget
statement next week, spokeswoman Phumza Macanda said in an e-mailed response to questions yesterday.  “Steep socio-economic challenges,” including low
education levels, poverty and unemployment, threaten long-term
economic and political stability and constrain South Africa’s
ratings, Moody’s said. The nation may face another downgrade if
government raised debt levels “much further” in response to
“socio-political unrest,” it said.  Moody’s declined to comment.  The timing of Moody’s statement, less than two weeks before
the mid-term budget, suggests that it probably won’t cut South
Africa’s rating in the near future, according to Carmen Nel, a
fixed-income analyst at Rand Merchant Bank. While Gordhan may
reduce his growth forecast, he will reiterate his commitment to
curb spending and narrow the deficit, even with an election
looming in April, she said.  Curbing Growth  “There is always a risk that the government will increase
spending, but  Pravin Gordhan  has been quite strict about that,”
Nel said by phone from Cape Town yesterday. The mid-term budget
“is not going to show meaningful signs of fiscal slippage and
it therefore won’t provide Moody’s with enough reason to pull
the trigger on a rating downgrade.”  Strikes this year have crippled output in industries from
mining to construction and aviation, undermining economic
expansion and job creation in a nation where one in four people
is  unemployed . The disruptions may cut this year’s growth rate
by 0.5 percentage point, according to Peter Worthington, an
economist at Johannesburg-based Absa Bank Ltd.’s corporate and
investment banking unit.  “If you look at sentiment around the labor market in South
Africa, it is overwhelmingly negative,” Mohammed Nalla, head of
strategic research at  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED)  in Johannesburg, said
by phone yesterday. “A lot of that is already priced in if you
look at the rand, if you look at bond yields.”  Capital Inflows  The rand was little changed at 9.9780 per dollar as of
11:48 a.m. in Johannesburg, bringing its decline this year to 15
percent, the most out of 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg. Yields on benchmark 10.5 percent bonds due December
2026 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 7.95
percent, an increase of 135 basis points since this year’s low
on May 9.  South Africa relies on flows from abroad to help finance
its current-account  deficit , which reached 6.5 percent of GDP in
the second quarter and will probably average 7 percent for the
year, according to Moody’s. Most of that foreign capital has
come from investment in stocks and bonds, inflows that can be
volatile as global sentiment fluctuates.  In 2012, the South African  economy  attracted $4.6 billion
in foreign direct investment, or 1.2 percent of GDP, according
to data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development. That compares with $10.8 billion in Argentina,
which has a similar-sized economy to South  Africa . Portfolio
inflows from abroad into South Africa amounted to about $5.5
billion last year, according to the country’s central bank.  Risk Perceptions  Risk perceptions of South Africa have increased since the
Moody’s downgrade on Sept. 27 last year. The cost of insuring
the nation’s dollar debt against default for five years climbed
24 basis points, or 0.24 percentage point, in the period to 174.  “The three main concerns that rating agencies still have
are the widening current-account deficit, the budget-deficit
target likely to missed and ongoing issues in the labor
market,” Kazmi at RBS said. “The curbing of investment by the
likes of BMW is negative.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in Cape Town at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  