-- Lhota Backs Off of Congress Republicans During NYC Debate
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z   a n d   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2013-10-16T04:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/lhota-distances-himself-from-national-republicans-in-nyc-debate.html
With Washington paralyzed by a
partisan spending battle and a government shutdown,  New York 
mayoral candidate Joseph Lhota sought to distance himself from
fellow Republicans in the first debate of the general election.  “Do not lump me with the national Republicans,” Lhota,
59, told his opponent, Democrat Bill de Blasio, 52, during the
hour-long televised forum last night. “It’s unbecoming, Bill.”  As Republicans slip in national polls and fight internally
and with Democrats over the shutdown and raising the nation’s
borrowing limit, de Blasio accused Lhota of following the
“Republican playbook” of tax breaks for corporations and the
wealthy and aligning himself with “extremist” Tea Party groups.  “He is enabling the same world view that has put us in
this crisis,” de Blasio said.  In the first of three meetings between the two before the
Nov. 5 election, the candidates sparred over police tactics, the
role of  charter schools , increasing affordable housing and plans
for a trash incinerator on  Manhattan ’s Upper East Side.  De Blasio, the front-runner, said he wants to charge some
charter schools rent and called for the police department to
boost community cooperation while curbing the use of aggressive
crime-prevention methods such as the tactic known as stop-and-frisk. Lhota repeated his pledge to keep Raymond Kelly as police
commissioner, boost the role of charter schools and fight the
incinerator that de Blasio said he supported.  Democratic Advantage  Three weeks before Election Day, Lhota is battling a
perception that de Blasio has locked up the race as polls show
the Democrat with an advantage of as much as 50 percentage
points. The debates offer the Republican a chance to narrow that
gap and introduce himself to voters just beginning to pay
attention to the campaign.  Though registered Democrats hold a more than 6-to-1 edge
over Republicans, they haven’t controlled  City Hall  for 20
years. The two candidates are competing to run the most-populous
U.S. city, which has 8.3 million residents, a $70 billion annual
budget and 300,000 employees.  Lhota said diversifying New York’s economy beyond financial
services as well as providing tax breaks and less regulation for
business will help reduce  income inequality , which de Blasio has
made a central issue in his campaign. The Republican highlighted
his government experience -- he served as a top aide and budget
director to former Mayor  Rudy Giuliani  -- calling himself the
only candidate who’d be ready to lead the city on day one.  Public Safety  He warned that New York may become less safe if de Blasio
is elected because his opponent is “untested,” and refuted the
Democrat’s attempts to tie him to the Republican right by
expressing support for abortion rights and same-sex marriage.  The candidates attacked one another frequently and with
gusto. Lhota called his opponent a “career politician” who’ll
raise taxes on middle-income earners. Talking to reporters
following the debate, he said de Blasio was “your typical
classic political hack who doesn’t know what to do when he’s in
a debate and talk about issues.”  “I really feel sorry for  New Yorkers  watching tonight,”
Lhota said. “They turned on channel 7 to be able to talk about
our visions for the future of the city. We didn’t hear anything
from Bill. We heard no specific plans.”  De Blasio came armed with critiques of his own, calling
Republican Giuliani’s administration “the most divisive” in
decades and that Lhota had a “ringside seat” in making it so.  Ex-Dinkins Aide  The Democrat said his career in public life, including time
spent as an aide to former Mayor David Dinkins, a Democrat, has
given him a ground-level understanding of city government and
how to get things done. He pledged to build or maintain 200,000
units of affordable housing in the next decade and said electing
him would be a “clean break” from the current administration.  A former city councilman elected to the watchdog post of
public advocate in 2009, de Blasio catapulted from third place
in a crowded primary field to win his party’s nomination last
month. He has promised to close the widening income gap between
wealthy and poor New Yorkers by providing universal pre-kindergarten financed with tax increases on the highest incomes.  Lhota most recently ran the region’s public transit system,
where he was widely praised for reopening the subways after
 Hurricane Sandy  struck on Oct. 29. He has also served as an
executive vice president at Madison Square Garden Co. and worked
on  Wall Street  in municipal finance.  Since winning the Sept. 10 primary, de Blasio has raised
about $820,000, almost double Lhota’s $426,000, city campaign-finance records show. De Blasio received $8.9 million in private
and public matching funds through Oct. 4, while Lhota got $5.1
million. Both had spent about 79 percent of their funds.  The 12-year tenure of Mayor  Michael Bloomberg , 71, founder
and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP and a
political independent, concludes Dec. 31.  De Blasio and Lhota will face off again Oct. 22 and Oct.
29. Last night’s debate was sponsored by WABC television,
Noticias Univision 31, the New York Daily News and the New York
City League of Women Voters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  