-- Park Cities’ Bank Holding Company Files for Bankruptcy
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2013-10-16T22:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/park-cities-bank-holding-company-files-for-bankruptcy.html
Park Cities Bank’s holding company,
North Texas Bancshares Inc., filed for bankruptcy, citing soured
commercial real-estate loans and declining natural gas prices.  The Dallas-based commercial and consumer bank had more than
$396 million in total deposits, four branches and 71 employees
as of Sept. 30, according to the filing. The holding company
listed debt of $39.3 million, and a deposit account containing
$363, in Chapter 11 documents filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware .  As a result of the financial crisis in 2007 and 2008, the
bank became under-capitalized and “the values of real estate
declined in the bank’s market area, which negatively impacted
the ability of the bank’s borrowers to repay loans, primarily
with respect to commercial real estate related loans,” the
company said in its filing.  The decline in natural gas prices also affected “certain
energy related loans of the bank in a very adverse fashion,”
the company said.  An affiliated holding company, North Texas Bancshares of
Delaware Inc., also sought court protection.  The company said in court papers that it plans to sell all
the stock in Park Cities Bank and other assets to Park Cities
Financial Group Inc. for about $7.4 million in cash. The buyer
would make a capital investment of as much as $40 million “in
order to obtain certain required regulatory approvals,” as part
of the sale closing.  Loan Sought  The  bank holding company  will also seek court approval to
borrow $750,000 in bankruptcy financing to help fund operations
while it seeks approval of the sale.  Park Cities is a full-service bank that includes deposit-gathering and lending. It opened in  Dallas  in November 2000. The
company owes unsecured creditors about $34 million on trust
preferred securities, according to court papers. North Texas
Bancshares owes Providence Bank about $5.2 million in secured
debt.  The case is In re North Texas Bancshares of Delaware Inc.,
13-12699, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in  New York  at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  