-- PepsiCo Profit Tops Analysts’ Estimates as Peltz Hovers
-- B y   D u a n e   D .   S t a n f o r d
-- 2013-10-16T20:34:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/pepsico-profit-tops-analysts-estimates-as-peltz-s-trian-hovers.html
PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) , the food and beverage
company that investor  Nelson Peltz  wants to split up, posted
third-quarter profit that topped analysts’ estimates as sales of
snacks gained in the U.S. and  Latin America .  Net income in the three months ended Sept. 7 rose 0.6
percent to $1.91 billion, or $1.23 a share, from $1.9 billion,
or $1.21, a year earlier, Purchase, New York-based PepsiCo said
today in a statement. Profit excluding some items was $1.24. The
average estimate of 15 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.17.  PepsiCo’s increased snack sales bolster Chief Executive
Officer  Indra Nooyi ’s case against Peltz, whose Trian Fund
Management LP has pressured her to acquire cookie maker  Mondelez
International Inc. (MDLZ)  to boost value. The company’s lagging drinks
performance in the U.S. may give Peltz ammunition for his other
idea -- splitting beverages from food.  “The snack franchise has really probably never been
stronger,”  Jack Russo , an analyst with Edward Jones & Co. in
 St. Louis , said in a telephone interview. “Beverages are
continuing to struggle, but the beauty of this story a lot of
times, as you’ve seen in this quarter, is the fact that they
have a food and beverage business, and one, if it’s stronger,
can offset the other if it’s weaker.”  Russo recommends buying PepsiCo shares.  PepsiCo, the world’s largest snack-maker and second-largest
soft-drink maker, rose 2.1 percent to $82.27 at the close in New
York. The  shares  have advanced 20 percent this year, compared
with a 21 percent gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Snacks Sales  Total sales rose 1.5 percent to $16.9 billion. Analysts
estimated $17 billion, on average. Revenue from Frito-Lay and
other snacks in the Americas rose 7 percent, excluding the
effects of acquisitions, divestitures and foreign-currency
fluctuations.  Revenue on that basis in the company’s Americas beverages
unit slid 1.5 percent. Sales volume for the business fell 4
percent, steeper than the 2 percent decline estimated by John Faucher, an analyst at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York .  Chief Financial Officer Hugh Johnston said today on a
conference call with reporters that the U.S. government’s
partial shutdown hasn’t affected consumers’ spending habits and
that the company expects lawmakers to resolve the impasse.  “There are certain pockets around the country where
federal workers have been furloughed, and that does create the
potential for some disruption, but we haven’t seen that yet,”
Johnston said.  Forecast Maintained  PepsiCo reiterated it will increase per-share earnings,
excluding the effects of currency fluctuations, at least 7
percent. That would produce profit of about $4.39 a share, up
from $4.10 in 2012. The company expects currency fluctuations to
reduce its full-year earnings per share by 2 percentage points.  Peltz, who disclosed stakes in PepsiCo and Mondelez in
April, said at a conference in New York in July that PepsiCo
should acquire Mondelez in an all-stock deal that would be
valued at as much as $67.8 billion. Mondelez, the Deerfield,
Illinois-based maker of crackers and sweet snacks, had a market
value of about $54.4 billion at yesterday’s close. Peltz said
that he has met often with Nooyi and that the company didn’t
favor the idea.  PepsiCo has responded that its strategy is working and it
is confident in its ability to increase  shareholder value  as an
combined food and beverage company.  “Why break them up?”  Warren Buffett , whose  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  is Coca-Cola’s largest shareholder, told CNBC
today in an interview. “I believe in running a company for the
shareholders who are going to stay rather than the ones who are
going to leave.”  Trian held 12.3 million  shares , or 0.8 percent, of PepsiCo
as of June 30. The firm held almost 41 million shares, or 2.3
percent, of Mondelez.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Duane D. Stanford in Atlanta at 
 dstanford2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  