-- Peugeot CFO Forecasts Fourth-Quarter Market Share Gains
-- B y   M a t h i e u   R o s e m a i n
-- 2013-10-16T13:17:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/peugeot-cfo-forecasts-fourth-quarter-market-share-gains.html
PSA Peugeot Citroen (UG) , Europe’s
second-biggest carmaker, forecast a fourth-quarter market share
increase on the continent as new models boost demand.  “We’ll have a clear improvement of our market share” in
the final three months compared with the 11.5 percent achieved
in the third quarter, Chief Financial Officer Jean-Baptiste de Chatillon said in an interview today. The new 2008 urban
crossover and 308 hatchback will help push the gains, he said.  Peugeot remains on target to cut its cash-consumption rate
by 50 percent this year and is on track for a “very significant
reduction” in 2014, the CFO said.  Peugeot, which reported a first-half operating loss in its
automotive unit of 510 million euros ($691 million), burnt
through 3 billion euros last year. The automaker is considering
stake sales via capital increase to Chinese automaker  Dongfeng
Motor Corp. (489)  and the French government to boost funding, people
familiar with the matter said this week.  “There’s absolutely no problem of liquidity or financial
security,” Chatillon said. “We’re actively working to identify
valuable and profitable industrial partnerships. There’s no
project that has reached a maturity that would allow us to
comment.”  The stock has plunged 16 percent this week on investor
concern over the automaker’s financing. The French automaker has
a  market value  of 3.49 billion euros. The  shares  fell as much as
1.16 euros, or 11 percent, to 9.56 euros in Paris trading today
and were down 6.7 percent as of 3:15 p.m.  Capital Increase  The Paris-based company will discuss a capital increase at
a scheduled meeting on Oct. 22, said the people, who asked not
to be named because the gathering is private. The automaker
reports third-quarter revenue figures a day later.  “When I speak to Peugeot dealers, they’re very happy with
the 308 and the 2008,” said Erich Hauser, a London-based
analyst at International Strategy & Investment Group who
recommends buying the shares. “With the new model line-up, you
should see gains in the fourth quarter. Everyone was only
willing to look at the negative side and there are two sides to
that story -- not all of it might be entirely negative.”  Peugeot plans to eliminate 11,200  jobs  in  France  by 2015
and close a car plant in Aulnay, on the outskirts of Paris as
the region’s auto market tumbles for a sixth straight year.
Peugeot deliveries last month in Europe dropped 3 percent, while
industrywide sales in the region rose 5.5 percent, according to
data released today from the ACEA industry group.  Restructuring  “The restructuring plan we’re implementing leads to fixed-costs cuts that are exactly in line with what we’ve announced,”
he said. “We’re completely in line with our cost-cutting
forecasts, which is quite essential given the market situation
in Europe.”  Peugeot is asking unions to cut overtime pay by 20 percent
to 25 percent and  freeze salaries  in 2014. In exchange, the
manufacturer has vowed to spend 1.5 billion euros to upgrade
French factories over the next three years and raise production
7.5 percent to at least 1 million autos.  The automaker plans to build at least one new model in each
of its five French assembly plants in the coming three years to
bring capacity utilization to 100 percent in 2016 from 61
percent in the first half.  Management last week held its final meeting on the proposal
with unions, which have until Oct. 22 to decide whether to
accept it.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathieu Rosemain in Paris at 
 mrosemain@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  