-- Pimco Says Aussie Rates Lower for Longer as UBS Sees RBA on Hold
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2013-10-17T03:52:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/pimco-says-short-term-australian-rates-lower-for-even-longer-.html
Pacific Investment Management Co.
said the Aussie dollar’s strength as a consequence of global
monetary policies may mean short-term Australian  interest rates 
remain lower for longer. UBS AG sees the central bank holding
borrowing costs at a record low through the end of next year.  The local currency at 95.50 U.S. cents “means short-term
Aussie interest rates lower for even longer,”  Robert Mead , a
Sydney-based  money manager  for Pimco, which runs the world’s
largest debt fund, wrote in a Twitter posting today.  The Aussie dollar touched its strongest level in four
months as the  U.S. Congress  voted to end a government shutdown
and raise the nation’s debt limit, buoying demand for higher-yielding assets. The currency also gained after minutes of the
 Reserve Bank  of Australia’s October meeting released this week
showed officials agreed the monetary authority should “neither
close off the possibility of reducing rates further nor signal
an imminent intention to reduce them.”  Australia’s currency was little changed from yesterday at
95.46 U.S. cents as of 2:50 p.m. in Sydney after earlier rising
to 95.69 cents, the highest since June 18.  Australia ’s  three-year  government bond yield, among the most sensitive to
interest-rate expectations, fell nine basis points to 3.08
percent. It reached 3.21 percent yesterday, a level unseen since
April 2012.  The RBA reduced its  key rate  by 2.25 percentage points over
the past two years to an all-time low 2.5 percent.  Interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders see a 75 percent
chance officials will keep the benchmark unchanged through to
the end of this year. There’s about a 65 percent probability it
will remain there through the first quarter of 2014, according
to the data.  Easing Over  “For the first time in a few years we think the easing
cycle is over,”  Matthew Johnson , a Sydney-based interest-rate
strategist at UBS, said at a media briefing today. “We don’t
think we need the currency to go lower for the RBA to stay on
hold.” Australia’s central bank may raise the cash rate in 2015
at the earliest, Johnson said.  Australia’s currency has risen 2 percent in the past month,
supported by the  Federal Reserve ’s decision on Sept. 18 to keep
buying $85 billion of bonds a month and a pickup in
manufacturing and imports in China, the South Pacific nation’s
biggest trading partner.  The Aussie’s decline from a high of $1.0582 on April 11
helped extend its drop this year to 8.2 percent, the most after
the yen among the Group of 10 major currencies.  “The Australian dollar appreciated significantly against
the  U.S. dollar  on the day of the Fed decision and had
appreciated further over the past month following the release of
stronger-than-expected economic data, particularly in China,”
minutes of the RBA’s Oct. 1 meeting showed on Oct. 15.
“However, members noted that the Australian dollar was still
around 10 percent below its peak in April.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net ;
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  