-- Pinochet-Era Investment Lure at Risk in Chile Election: Taxes
-- B y   E d u a r d o   T h o m s o n
-- 2013-10-16T03:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/pinochet-era-investment-lure-at-risk-in-chile-election-taxes.html
A system set up by former Chilean
dictator  Augusto Pinochet  in 1984 to boost investment is being
used to help the rich avoid taxes, according to the favorite in
November’s presidential election.  In a country of 17 million people, only  0.3 percent  of tax
payers pay the top income rate, depriving  Chile  of the money it
needs to improve education and tackle the worst  income
inequality  in the 34-nation Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development, says opposition candidate  Michelle Bachelet .  The rich in Latin America’s wealthiest nation evade the 40
percent tax on income over $100,000 a year by keeping earnings
in investment companies, says Sergio Endress, a tax attorney at
law firm Aguayo, Ecclefield & Martinez. While the system may
have boosted savings and fueled growth, it has come at a cost,
forcing the government to rely on the  sales tax  for most of its
revenue, a tax that hurts the poor more than the wealthy.  “The system deliberately encourages devising ways so that
company owners pay absolutely no tax at all,” Endress, who is
also a professor of tax law at  Universidad de Chile , said in a
phone interview from Santiago.  Chile raises the equivalent to 7.5 percent of its gross
domestic product through corporate and income taxes, compared
with the 11.3 percent average for the OECD, according to  data 
from the organization and the United Nation’s Latin American
unit, or Eclac. Bachelet, a Socialist who was president from
2006 to 2010 and now leads the polls over the ruling alliance’s
Evelyn Matthei, says the time has come to narrow that gap by 3
percentage points.  Savings Boost  Chile charges a basic 20 percent  tax rate  on all corporate
profits, plus as much as 20 percent more if and when those
earnings are withdrawn from the company by an individual.  What is unique to Chile is that the system allows companies
to roll over earnings in an account called the Taxable Profit
Fund, known by its initials in Spanish as FUT. Chilean companies
held about $270 billion in FUTs at the end of 2012, according to
the tax regulator, equivalent to the country’s GDP.  The FUT enables professionals, businessmen and wealthy
individuals to put their earnings into paper companies and
postpone the personal tax on that income indefinitely. Many
include other family members as shareholders, dividing up the
income when it is withdrawn and lowering their personal income
tax bracket.  “The FUT helps people elude taxes and is being used for
something for which it wasn’t created,” Alejandro Micco, an
economic adviser for Bachelet, said at a conference in Santiago
Oct. 4. “There is a bad use of the incentive.”  The Reform  The rich also can claim back part of the 20 percent
corporate tax by limiting how much profit they withdraw, said
Endress. According to data from the tax authority, anybody
earning up to 34 million pesos (about $68,000) a year falls in
the 15 percent tax bracket. A person earning up to 43 million
pesos ($86,000) falls in the 25 percent bracket.  “When you take into account these rebates, it means that
what Chile collects from corporate profits is actually below the
20 percent,” Endress said. In 2006, the effective corporate tax
rate was 15 percent, according to a study he wrote that year.  The system is no longer worth keeping, Bachelet says. As a
first step, she plans to raise the basic rate of corporate tax
to 25 percent and cut the top rate of income tax to 35 percent.
Later, among other  measures , she will scrap the system for
rolling over earnings in the FUT.  Gradual Change  The changes will be gradual and won’t take full effect
until the end of the next presidential term in 2018, according
to documents on her campaign’s website. The aim is to collect
the equivalent of 3 percentage points of gross domestic product
to fund spending on education, health and social security.  Bachelet is backed by 34 percent of voters ahead of the
Nov. 17 election, followed by Evelyn Matthei with 19 percent and
independent  Franco Parisi  with 15 percent, according to a survey
released Oct. 7 by  Ipsos . The poll of 985 people between Sept.
24 and Oct. 4 had a margin of error of 3.3 percentage points.  Critics of Bachelet’s plans say she risks undermining one
of the pillars of Chile’s economic success. They point out that
the introduction of the code helped double the investment rate
to 24.5 percent in 1988 from 11.9 percent in 1983, according to
the  International Monetary Fund .  “Eliminating the FUT is a dangerous and unpractical
proposal that can set off an earthquake in saving levels,”
Felipe Morande, an economic adviser for Matthei said at the
conference.  Massive Savings  The think tank  Libertad y Desarrollo , which was founded by
Hernan Buchi, Pinochet’s finance minister at the time of the
system’s creation, said that Bachelet’s plan would damage small
and medium-sized companies that rely on retained profits to fund
investment, according to a report posted on its website in June.  “The system has been very efficient and has generated
massive amounts of private savings,”  Christian Blanche , a
partner at legal firm Tax Advisors, said in an interview at his
office in Santiago. “Even if the savings come from investment
firms and not manufacturing companies, they’re in the  capital
markets , allowing institutional investors to use that money for
more employment and growth.”  Chilean companies invested the equivalent of 25 percent of
GDP in 2012 and domestic saving reached 21.5 percent, according
to  Libertad y Desarrollo .  Moreover, Chile’s government is the only net creditor in
Latin America, indicating it is not short of funds.  Marginal  Andrea Repetto , a member of Bachelet’s team working on the
tax plan, says changes won’t slash savings and investment and
will provide the government with the funds it needs.  “At the margins there may be some projects that are
profitable with the current rate and that won’t be” with the
new system, Repetto said in an interview with  Radio Duna  Oct. 7.
“There are profitable investments that a society can make in
education and health that we aren’t doing because we don’t have
the resources for that.”  Chile raised the equivalent of 20 percent of its GDP in
taxes in 2010, in line with the average of 19 percent for all of
 Latin America  and below an average of 34 percent for OECD-member
countries, according to a report published in December by Eclac.  In a country with at least 53,000 millionaires, according
to Credit Suisse AG, many remained shocked that Chile’s system
enables so many to avoid the highest tax bracket.  “Whenever I’m abroad and I explain the FUT system to other
tax experts, they just can’t believe it,” says  Claudio
Agostini , an economist at Universidad Adolfo Ibanez and member
of the Washington DC-based National Tax Association. “‘It’s
evasion through and through,’ is what they say.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eduardo Thomson in Santiago at 
 ethomson1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Cesca Antonelli at 
 fantonelli@bloomberg.net . 