-- PNC Profit Increases 9.7% on Expense Cuts and Lower Provisions
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-10-16T10:33:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/pnc-profit-increases-9-7-on-expense-cuts-and-lower-provisions.html
PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) ,
the second-biggest U.S. regional bank, posted a 9.7 percent
profit increase as the lender cut expenses and set aside less
for bad loans.  Third-quarter net income rose to $1 billion, or $1.79 a
share, from $939 million, or $1.64, a year earlier, the
Pittsburgh-based bank said today in a statement. The  average
estimate  of 31 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was $1.62.  Chief Executive Officer Bill Demchak said in September he
expects expenses to drop 5 percent this year and that revenue
increases won’t come easily. The bank is starting to see the
benefits of its expansion into the U.S. Southeast with the 2012
purchase of RBC Bank USA and is focusing on fee-income
businesses including wealth, he said last month.  “Even in the face of an environment that is challenging
the entire industry, our businesses are successfully growing
loans, and we are leveraging our high-quality balance sheet to
drive revenue,” Demchak, 51, said in the statement.  Banks suffered declines in mortgage-banking revenue amid a
jump in the benchmark 10-year Treasury yield, which rose in the
third quarter to the highest since 2011, curbing borrower
refinancings.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest  U.S. bank , said
last week that mortgage fees and related revenue plunged 65
percent to $839 million.  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , the largest home
lender, said mortgage-banking revenue tumbled 43 percent.  Demchak has said he plans to redefine retail banking by
finding a balance between branch and mobile services. The lender
reduced tellers by about 600 in the six months through Sept. 9,
deploying some employees to other positions, he said then. The
company will close almost 200 branches this year and open others
in the Southeast where necessary, Demchak said.  “Given the changes in the operating environment, banking
in the future has got to be very different from banking in the
past,” Demchak said in September.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in  New York  at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  