-- Profit Battle Shows Cheap Bank Shares No Bargain: Israel Markets
-- B y   S h o s h a n n a   S o l o m o n
-- 2013-10-17T12:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/profit-battle-shows-cheap-bank-shares-no-bargain-israel-markets.html
The rally in Israeli bank stocks
that helped reduce their biggest discount to European peers in
four years is set to fade as lenders struggle to boost profit as
interest rates fall and regulation grows.  The discount of the price-to-book value of Israeli lenders
on the Tel Aviv Banking Index, which includes  Bank Hapoalim
Ltd. (POLI) , the nation’s biggest, and  Bank Leumi-Le Israel Ltd. (LUMI) , to
 Europe ’s Stoxx 600 Banks Index narrowed to 13 percent today from
18 percent last month, the widest since September 2009. Earnings
are under pressure after policy makers cut borrowing costs by
2.25 percentage points since August 2011 to 1 percent and
corporate loan growth waned.  New capital requirements, limits on mortgage lending and
regulation aimed at lowering fees and increasing competition are
hurting an industry with assets of 1.3 trillion shekels ($367
billion). Salaries at Israeli banks as a portion of operational
expenses are the second-highest among countries in the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. With
earnings growth for banks at current levels, there is no reason
for them to continue their gains, said Citigroup Inc. analyst
Michael Klahr in  Tel Aviv .  “Israeli banks are cheap but this reflects diminished
profitability,” William Scholes, assistant investment manager
at  Aberdeen Asset Management Plc (ADN)  in  London  which oversees $318
billion including Israeli assets, said by e-mail Oct. 1. “We
would be cautious on increasing exposure without further signs
of improvement in cost-to-income ratios and profitability.”  Earnings Decline  Hapoalim, based in Tel Aviv, may post a 10 percent drop in
net income in the fourth quarter and Leumi, the country’s
second-largest lender, may report the lowest profit for the
period since 2006, according to single analyst estimates on
Bloomberg. In the last eight consecutive quarters based on U.S.
accounting standards, Bank Leumi posted three declines in
quarterly profit including a loss in the fourth quarter of 2012.
Bank Hapoalim reported a drop in net income in four quarters of
the same period, as well as a loss in the three months ended
Sept. 30, 2011.  Lenders refrained from paying dividends last year as they
sought to comply with a central bank directive to raise Tier 1
capital ratios, a category of reserves that protects depositors
from business losses. Banks need to increase the ratio to 9
percent by 2015 from 7.5 percent, while Hapoalim and Leumi must
achieve a ratio of 10 percent two years later.  “I don’t see any significant growth driver for banks over
the next 12 months,” Citigroup’sKlahr said by phone on Oct. 2.
“ Interest rates  are low and are not expected to rise in the
foreseeable future and banks are just containing costs rather
than reducing them significantly.” Klahr recommends investors
sell Leumi and rates Hapoalim neutral.  ‘Easing’ Tensions  The Tel Aviv Banking Index of the country’s five biggest
lenders rose 14 percent since dropping to a nine-month low on
Aug. 27, as the U.S. Federal Reserve maintained its bond-buying
program last month. Stocks also rallied as  Syria  agreed to hand
over its chemical weapons and the presidents of the U.S. and
 Iran  spoke by phone in the highest-level conversation between
leaders of the two countries since 1979.  “An easing of geopolitical tensions in the area is making
investors more confident about investing in the local market,”
Alon Glazer, an analyst at  Leader Capital Markets (LDRC)  Ltd. in Tel
Aviv who recommends investors buy bank shares, said by phone on
Oct. 10. “Israeli banks, which are a reflection of the local
economy, are cheap.”  The Israeli banking gauge trades at a price-to-book value
of 0.8, compared with 0.9 for Europe’s Stoxx 600 Banks Index,
and 1.5 for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Financials Index. Leumi,
up 16 percent since reaching a 11-month low on Aug. 27, trades
at a ratio of 0.8, while Hapoalim is at 0.9.  “Israeli banks continue to offer investors a successful
mix of stability and returns,” Ofra Preuss, a spokeswoman for
Hapoalim, said in an e-mailed statement to Bloomberg on Oct. 14.
An official at  Bank Leumi  declined to comment on Oct. 14.  Dividend Payments  Banks are reviving dividend payments. Tel Aviv-based  First
International Bank of Israel Ltd.  paid its first dividend in
almost three years  in June , while Hapoalim got regulatory
approval to reintroduce quarterly cash dividends in July.  The shares may also benefit from a possible change in a law
that limits investments in banks by institutions to 5 percent,
Terence Klingman, the head of research at Psagot Investment
House Ltd. in Tel Aviv, said by phone on Oct. 13. A panel
charged with finding ways to increase trading volumes on the
stock exchange made the recommendation. The central bank said
Oct. 13 discussions are in early stages.  ‘Rationalizing Costs’  To improve profitability and meet  capital requirements ,
banks are cutting costs and selling assets.  Israel Discount Bank Ltd. (DSCT) , the country’s third-largest
lender, started a voluntary retirement program and reduced staff
since 2011. It’s also considering offers for units in  New York 
and  Latin America . Leumi sold a 4.4 percent stake in Migdal
Insurance & Financial Holding Ltd. in September for 270 million
shekels.  “Encouragingly, there is now a greater focus on
rationalizing costs and improving asset quality rather than
simple balance sheet growth,” Scholes said. He would re-evaluate bank shares, which he rates underweight, if lenders
improved operating efficiency and tackled their cost base.  About 60 percent of operational expenses at Israeli banks
stem from salaries, the most of any country in the OECD after
Denmark, compared with an average of 47 percent, according to
 Bank of Israel  data published in its 2012 banking report.  Reorganization at companies such as IDB Holding Corp., the
Tel Aviv-based company controlled by Nochi Dankner, are forcing
banks to pare lending to corporations. In addition, the
regulator has prompted banks to cut exposure to business groups
and increase consumer credit. Bank lending to businesses fell to
48 percent of the total at the end of last year from 53 percent
in 2007, according to central bank data.  Growth Ceiling  The Bank of  Israel  announced in August new limits on
mortgages designed to shield borrowers and the financial system
from risk after  house prices  surged more than 70 percent since
2007. Mortgages accounted for about 28 percent of the balance
sheet of the five biggest banking groups as of March 2013, up
from 20 percent in December 2007, the central bank said.  “Israeli banks are exposed to one single economy and one
single housing market which is over-heating,” Jacob de Tusch-Lec, a London-based  money manager  at Artemis Investment
Management LLP which holds Israeli shares among the $20 billion
in assets it oversees, said by phone on Oct. 3. “That creates a
ceiling on growth for banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shoshanna Solomon in Tel Aviv at 
 ssolomon22@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  