-- Publicis Third-Quarter Sales Growth Slows on Weak China Ads
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r   a n d   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2013-10-16T07:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/publicis-third-quarter-sales-growth-slows-on-china-ad-spending.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , which is merging
with  Omnicom Group Inc. (OMC)  to form the world’s biggest advertising
company, reported slower third-quarter sales growth because of
weaker ad spending in  China .  Revenue rose 3 percent to 1.68 billion euros ($2.3 billion)
from a year earlier, Paris-based Publicis said in a statement
today. Excluding currency fluctuations and acquisitions, sales
climbed 3.5 percent, missing Nomura Holdings Inc.’s 4.2 percent
estimate and slowing from an increase of 5 percent for the
previous quarter. Shares fell as much as 2.5 percent in Paris.  Still, Publicis confirmed its 2013 target of as much as 3.6
percent growth as the quarter saw European sales rise for the
first time this year and as digital businesses expanded 12
percent. The combination with Omnicom is progressing through the
regulatory process before competition watchdogs and will offer
clients integrated campaigns and advanced technology while
helping contain costs at the companies, Publicis said.  “The main thing: we’re on track,” Chief Executive Officer
 Maurice Levy  said at a press conference in Paris. “We’ve
already obtained two green lights: that of  South Korea  and  South
Africa . We’ve done the filing in the U.S. We’ve started the
process in Europe. We’ve advanced on China.”  Publicis shares were down 2.2 percent to 59.05 euros at
9:09 a.m. Omnicom rose 1.6 percent to $64.96 in New York
yesterday.  Client List  Levy said Publicis, the owner of ad agencies Leo Burnett
and  Saatchi & Saatchi , and Omnicom -- the second-biggest ad firm
behind  WPP Plc (WPP)  -- haven’t lost any clients since the merger was
announced in July and said most have been supportive. Managers
of the companies are scheduled to meet later this week in
 Florida  to discuss the integration plan, he said.  “‘We don’t have the intention to merge the networks; that
is clear,” Levy said. “Our idea is that we should do 100 basis
points of additional growth on top of the average that the two
groups could do by themselves.”  Omnicom reported slower revenue growth in the third quarter
as well, saying yesterday sales for the period hit $3.49
billion. That narrowly beat analysts’ $3.48 billion estimate and
is down from $3.64 billion in the second quarter as European
markets slowed for the New York-based company.  Publicis and Omnicom  shareholders  will each hold about 50
percent of the new entity, Publicis Omnicom Group. The alliance
will give the owners more clout to negotiate better ad rates for
their clients for media placements on television, the Internet
and in print as the advertising industry starts showing signs of
a recovery. They’ll be better able to compete against the
growing might of Silicon Valley companies such as Google Inc.
and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , which are pulling revenue away from
traditional media, they’ve said.  Emerging Markets  Digital activities at Publicis accounted for 38 percent of
revenue in the first nine months, compared with 33 percent in
2012 as digital growth registered double-digit growth everywhere
except in Europe.  Levy said in a video statement today that he sees
continuing “double-digit” growth in Publicis’s digital
business, and signs European spending is starting to pick up.  Growth in  emerging markets  slowed in the third quarter as
developed countries are starting to gain ground, Levy said.
Publicis’s market researcher, ZenithOptimedia, forecasts 3.5
percent growth for the advertising industry in 2013.  New business in the first nine months totaled $3.4 billion
from clients including  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , Dunkin’ Donuts Inc. and
Bang and Olufsen AS. Publicis made eight acquisitions in the
third quarter, including Netalk, a social-media agency in China,
and Bosz Digital, a Latin American digital production company.  While Publicis met internal forecasts “despite tensions
stemming from Brazil and the situation in Syria,” Levy said
“caution is required particularly since the global economic
situation has come under the threat of government shutdown in
the USA,” according to a company statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net .
Rudy Ruitenberg at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  