-- Puerto Rico Bonds Rally as Commonwealth May Avoid Debt Issuance
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-10-16T20:20:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/puerto-rico-bonds-rally-as-commonwealth-may-avoid-debt-issuance.html
Puerto Rico  general obligations are
trading at the lowest yields in two weeks after commonwealth
officials yesterday said they may avoid selling debt through
June 30.  Securities maturing in July 2041 and rated one step above
junk traded today with an average yield of 8.7 percent, the
lowest since Oct. 2, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield
spread over benchmark municipal bonds also shrank to a two-week
low, after setting a record high last week.  While Puerto Rico still plans to sell as much as $1.2
billion of sales-tax bonds by Dec. 31 to balance budgets, it has
enough funds to hold off on issuance if borrowing costs are too
high, David Chafey, chairman of the Government Development Bank,
said in a webcast briefing for investors yesterday.  A potential suspension of debt sales has prompted investors
to buy, said Gary Pollack, who oversees $6 billion of munis as
managing director in Deutsche Bank AG’s private-wealth unit in
 New York .  “If you sold bonds in anticipation that you’re going to
have more supply down the road, you may not get that supply,”
Pollack said. “So you might go back in and buy bonds now.”  The webcast, which lasted more than two hours, outlined the
island’s economic goals and “made investors feel a bit more
comfortable that the commonwealth is moving along a better
path,” Pollack said.  Rebound Times  Its bonds are rebounding after yields soared to record
highs on investor concern that Puerto Rico’s contracting economy
would make it harder to repay its debt. More than three-quarters
of U.S. municipal-bond mutual funds hold the securities, which
are tax-exempt in all states, according to  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   The general obligations maturing in July 2041 traded with
an average yield of 8.98 percent Oct. 7, the highest since the
debt was first sold March 2012. Yields move inversely to prices.  Puerto Rico debt has lost 21.6 percent this year through
Oct. 15, the worst performance since at least 1999 and more than
six times the losses in the $3.7 trillion municipal-bond market,
according to Standard & Poor’s data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  