-- Putin Opponent Navalny Appeals Five-Year Prison Term in Kirov
-- B y   D e n i s   S h a d r i n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-16T07:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/putin-opponent-navalny-appeals-five-year-prison-term-in-kirov.html
A Russian court began hearing an
appeal by Alexey Navalny, a leading opponent of President
Vladimir Putin, against a five-year prison sentence.  Navalny, 37, who in the past two years helped organize the
biggest demonstrations against Putin’s 13-year rule, was
convicted of embezzling from a state timber company in Kirov,
900 kilometers (560 miles) northeast of Moscow, on July 18.  Thousands of people in Moscow protested the verdict, which
also sparked condemnation by the U.S. and Europe, on the eve of
a meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs in the Russian capital.
The Micex Index fell as much as 1.6 percent after the ruling.  Prosecutors in July unexpectedly asked the court to free
Navalny pending appeal, a day after he said he’d withdraw from a
snap Moscow mayoral election if he remained in prison. The
opposition leader came second in the vote last month, scoring
27.2 percent to incumbent  Sergei Sobyanin ’s 51.4 percent.  Navalny, who arrived today at the regional appeal court in
Kirov carrying personal possessions, said he’s confident of
overturning the conviction, according to RIA Novosti. The
prosecutors are seeking to uphold the five-year sentence.  A lawyer and anti-corruption activist, Navalny has vowed to
contest the next presidential election in 2018 and put Putin and
his billionaire allies in jail if he wins. His conviction, if
upheld, would preclude him from ever holding public office.  Putin, 61, has hardened his response against critics since
winning a new six-year presidential term last year. Some
protesters have been imprisoned, while economist Sergei Guriev
and former chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov, critics fearing
prosecution, fled  Russia  this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net  