-- Putin Critic Navalny Stays Free as Court Suspends Sentence
-- B y   D e n i s   S h a d r i n   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2013-10-16T14:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/putin-foe-navalny-stays-out-of-prison-as-court-suspends-sentence.html
A Russian court suspended a five-year prison sentence for Alexey Navalny, potentially barring the
leading opponent of President  Vladimir Putin  from political
office while leaving him a free man.  Navalny, 37, who in the past two years helped organize the
biggest demonstrations against Putin’s 13-year rule, won’t serve
the prison term though the appeal judge in the city of Kirov
upheld his conviction for embezzlement at a hearing today.  Navalny, who was a runner-up in last month’s elections for
Moscow mayor, was found guilty in July of defrauding a state
timber company in Kirov, 900 kilometers (560 miles) northeast of
Moscow. His conviction, which can still be appealed in a higher
court, would exclude him from ever holding public office.  “Neither I, nor my colleagues will stop our political
battle, we’ll continue it,” Navalny said after the verdict was
read out in the regional court.  Thousands of people in Moscow protested his July 18
conviction, which also sparked condemnation by the U.S. and
 Europe , on the eve of a meeting of Group of 20 finance chiefs in
the Russian capital.  The Micex Index gained as much as 0.3 percent after the
ruling and was trading 0.1 percent higher at 1,532.48 at 7:06
p.m. in Moscow. The benchmark gauge fell as much as 1.6 percent
after the conviction.  Surprise Request  Prosecutors in July unexpectedly asked the court to free
Navalny pending appeal, a day after he said he’d withdraw from a
snap Moscow mayoral election if he remained in prison. The
opposition leader came second in the vote, scoring 27.2 percent
to incumbent  Sergei Sobyanin ’s 51.4 percent.  Navalny, who arrived today at the court carrying personal
possessions needed for prison, said he was confident of
overturning the conviction, according to RIA Novosti. The
prosecutors asked to uphold the five-year sentence.  A lawyer and anti-corruption activist, Navalny has vowed to
contest the next presidential election in 2018 and put Putin and
his billionaire allies in jail if he wins.  “Navalny’s suspended sentence keeps him on a tight
leash,” Dimitri Kryukov, founder of Verno Capital, which
manages about $230 million in Russian assets, said in an
interview. “What he has been doing exposing corruption has been
a good thing and investors like it but overall we don’t see him
becoming a big factor anytime soon in decision making.”  Putin Crackdown  Putin, 61, has hardened his response against opposition
since winning a new six-year presidential term last year. Some
protesters have been imprisoned, while economist Sergei Guriev
and former chess grandmaster  Garry Kasparov , critics fearing
prosecution, fled  Russia  this year.  Navalny may have his suspended sentence quashed under an
amnesty proposed by Putin’s human rights council for those
convicted of non-violent crimes, according to the body’s head,
Mikhail Fedotov. The opposition leader still faces several other
fraud-related criminal investigations.  “Today’s decision shows the narrow room for maneuver for
the opposition,” billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , an opposition
presidential candidate last year, said in an e-mailed statement.
“A suspended sentence is an admission that there wasn’t any
crime committed but it keeps a politician who is now famous
across Russia in a state of limbo, with the option of
imprisoning him at any time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  