-- Putin Council’s Proposes Amnesty Reaching Khodorkovsky, Navalny
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2013-10-16T16:05:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/putin-council-s-proposes-amnesty-reaching-khodorkovsky-navalny.html
The Kremlin’s human rights council
proposed an amnesty for people convicted of non-violent crimes
that may free former oil billionaire Mikhail Khodorkovsky and
protesters against President Vladimir Putin’s 13-year rule.  “The council has proposed to grant a wide-ranging
amnesty,” its chairman, Mikhail Fedotov, said by phone. “This
is an act of mercy and humanism, and it will help to modernize
 Russia ’s penitentiary system.”  Putin faces criticism from the U.S. and Europe for cracking
down on the opposition and non-governmental organizations after
his election to a third presidential term in 2012. Russia
detained 30 people for “piracy” after Greenpeace activists
tried to scale an Arctic oil rig last month and arrested more
than two dozen after a rally before Putin’s inauguration last
year. Two members of female punk group Pussy Riot remain in
prison after performing a song critical of Putin inside Moscow’s
main cathedral in February 2012.  “If we want to reduce criminality, we need to have the
amnesty,” according to Fedotov, who said the reprieve will
decrease recidivism. If adopted, the measure would release tens
of thousands of people from prison, he said. Putin agreed to
have the council draft the proposal on Sept. 4.  ‘Gang Rape’  Two weeks later, Putin said he doesn’t rule out an amnesty
for the May 6 protesters. In July, parliament pardoned those
convicted for economic crimes, freeing 307 people by Oct. 1,
according to the RBC news wire.  Only those convicted of non-violent crimes with no serious
consequences would be be considered for the amnesty, according
to the proposal  published  on the council’s website today.  Khodorkovsky, once Russia’s richest man, is set to be freed
from prison in August 2014, almost 11 years after his arrest at
gunpoint in 2003. He has said the charges were politically
motivated, which the Kremlin has denied.  Fedotov says he hopes that the president will support the
council in a wider amnesty. It would also apply to the
Greenpeace activists who are awaiting trial on piracy charges,
“if the charges aren’t be changed to gang rape of the
platform,” Fedotov said. “If they change the charges to rape,
then there won’t be an amnesty for them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  