-- Rand’s Fall Stokes Best EM Stocks Rally: Riskless Return
-- B y   J a c o   V i s s e r
-- 2013-10-16T06:40:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/rand-s-fall-stokes-best-em-stocks-rally-riskless-return.html
South  Africa , hit by the worst
decline among major currencies this year, is rewarding emerging-market investors who have hedged against exchange-rate swings
with the best stock-market performance.  The FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index returned 4.1 percent in
the three years through Oct. 15, after adjusting for volatility,
the highest among 22 developing-nation measures, according to
BLOOMBERG RISKLESS RETURN RANKING. South Africa beat  Malaysia ’s
FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI gauge, which had a risk-adjusted gain
of 3.8 percent, and the  Philippines , which had the best total
return.  The shares surged as pension funds, barred by law from
putting more than 25 percent of their money outside the country,
bought stocks with foreign earnings, which benefit when dollar
income is converted into rand. The four largest companies by
market value on the  FTSE/JSE Africa All-Share Index (JALSH) , accounting
for 42 percent of the index, are foreign domiciled and make most
of their income abroad, including BHP Billiton Plc, the world’s
largest mining company, and Cie. Financiere Richemont SA, the
largest jewelry maker.  “Without a doubt the main reason is currency,” Paul Attwood, who helps oversee $330 million of assets at Cincinnati-based Huntington Asset Advisors, said by phone Aug. 29. “You
also have some pretty good growth rates in some of these
companies.”  The rand has led a drop against the dollar among 16 major
currencies tracked by Bloomberg and is the worst emerging-market
currency after Argentina’s peso, slumping 15 percent this year.  Foreign Income  That’s helping boost earnings for companies with a large
share of foreign income when converted back into the local
currency, including  Sasol Ltd. (SOL) , the world’s largest producer of
motor fuel from coal, and  Naspers Ltd. (NPN) , which owns 34 percent of
Tencent Holdings Ltd.,  China ’s largest Internet business.  Foreign-domiciled companies on the Johannesburg exchange
include SABMiller Plc, the second-largest brewer, and British
American Tobacco Plc, Europe’s biggest cigarette-maker, in
addition to BHP Billiton and Richemont.  South Africa’s all-share gauge  returned  63 percent,
including dividends, over the past three years, the best
performance among emerging markets after the Philippine Stock
Exchange Index and  Thailand ’s SET. The benchmark had the third-lowest volatility over the period, trailing the Malaysian gauge
and Moroccan MADEX Free Float Index. The returns are in local
currency and don’t include the impact of exchange-rate swings.  Rand Cushion  “One of the main reasons for the lower volatility in the
market is because the rand is a risk currency,” Rhynhardt Roodt, a portfolio manager at Investec Asset Management, which
oversees about $105 billion, said by phone from Cape Town.
“When markets fall, the rand weakens and it cushions the large
rand-hedge shares from declining.”  While the African National Congress-led government has
loosened apartheid-era foreign-exchange controls since taking
power after all-race elections in 1994, some restrictions on
taking money out of the country remain. The rules were aimed at
avoiding capital flight when sanctions were imposed on South
Africa during minority white rule. Individual citizens can take
up to 4 million rand ($403,000) a year out of the country.  “By forcing retirement funds to invest 75 percent of their
money in South Africa,” the government pushes investors into
buying local assets, Alwyn van der Merwe, director for
investments at Sanlam Private Investments, which manages the
equivalent of $7 billion, said by phone from Cape Town.  Profit Gain  Sasol, the third-biggest South African company on the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange, gains about 860 million rand in
operating  profit  for every 10 South African cents the currency
weakens, the company said in March. Operating profit excluding
one-time items surged a record 26 percent in the year through
June, Johannesburg-based Sasol said Sept. 9. The stock has
gained 38 percent this year.  For Naspers, the nation’s largest company by market value,
the weaker rand contributed half of the 23 percent growth in
adjusted net income for the year through March, Chief Financial
Officer Steve Pacak said by phone from Cape Town Aug. 23. The
shares have rallied 76 percent this year, the second-best
performer after Johannesburg-based Mondi Group, a maker of paper
and packaging, on the  FTSE/JSE Top40 Index (TOP40)  of South Africa’s
biggest and most liquid equities.  The risk-adjusted  return , which isn’t annualized, is
calculated by dividing total return by volatility, or the degree
of daily price-swing variation, giving a measure of income per
unit of risk. A higher volatility means the price of an asset
can swing dramatically in a short period of time, increasing the
potential for unexpected losses compared with a security whose
price moves at a steady rate.  ‘Given Back’  The rand’s slump is hurting dollar investors in South
African equities, crimping total  returns  on the all-share index
this year to negative 0.9 percent in the U.S. currency,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge rose 13
percent in rand this year.  “While the stocks have done pretty well, their returns
haven’t been great,” Derrick Irwin, a portfolio manager of the
Wells Fargo Advantage  Emerging Markets  Equity Fund, said by
phone from Boston Aug. 27. “They’ve given it back to the South
African rand.”  The benchmark index has risen even as growth in Africa’s
biggest economy is forecast to slow to 2 percent this year from
2.5 percent 2012. That would be the slowest pace since the
recession in 2009 and less than half the 7 percent growth the
government says is needed to curb a 25.6 percent  unemployment 
rate.  Labor Unrest  Labor unrest at mines in the country, which has the world’s
largest-known reserves of platinum and chrome and is the sixth-largest gold producer, shaved 0.3 percentage point off economic
growth this year, according to President Jacob Zuma. The 21-member FTSE/JSE Africa Resources Index has dropped 3.4 percent
this year, led lower by Harmony Gold Mining Co., which slid 56
percent, and Gold Fields Ltd., which fell 52 percent.  “These companies were hit by lower dollar prices for
commodities and labor disruptions at mines,” Investec’s Roodt
said. “If it wasn’t for these issues, you would’ve seen a
significantly better performance in rand terms for the all-share
index.”  South Africa’s fiscal- and current-account deficits,
together with slowing growth and high inflation, leave it
vulnerable to external shocks, Mohammed Nalla, head of strategic
research at Nedbank Group Ltd. in Johannesburg, wrote in a Sept.
2 report.  Faster Growth  The shortfall on the current-account, the broadest measure
of trade in goods and services, widened to 6.5 percent of gross
domestic product in the second quarter. The budget deficit for
the year that ends March will probably be 4.1 percent, according
to the median estimate of 12 economists surveyed by Bloomberg in
the week through Sept. 25. Inflation accelerated to 6.4 percent
in August, the highest in four years, and above the central
bank’s 6 percent upper limit.  South Africa’s economy will probably grow by 3 percent next
year as Europe’s expansion gains momentum, Sanlam’s van der
Merwe said. This will boost commodity prices and probably
support mining stocks, which was an “unbelievably disappointing
sector” over the past three years, he said, highlighting  South
African banks  as another industry that might outperform
industrial and consumer stocks in 2014.  Rand Swings  The rand, the most volatile among the majors, may weaken to
10.10 per dollar by the end of the year, according to the median
estimate of 31 analysts. The rand strengthened 0.3 percent to
9.9527 per dollar as of 8:39 a.m. in Johannesburg.  The currency’s slump made it the second-worst performer
after the Sudanese pound, among 24 major African currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Ghanaian cedi weakened 13 percent, the
Malawian kwacha slipped 11 percent, while the Somalian shilling,
the best performer, gained 30 percent and the Ugandan shilling
advanced 5.3 percent.  The rand’s decline relative to other African currencies is
helping South African companies, including  Shoprite Holdings
Ltd. (SHP) , Africa’s largest grocer, and  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , the
continent’s biggest mobile-phone operator, which have been
expanding across Africa to boost sales. Cape Town-based Shoprite
increased the proportion of its sales from outside South Africa
to 14 percent of total revenue in the 12 months through June
compared with 12 percent the previous year.  ‘High-Growth’  “A lot of the attraction for international investors in
South African equities is the exposure to some of the high-growth areas in the other parts of Africa, which a lot of these
companies have,” Attwood from Huntington said.  Foreign inflows into South Africa’s stock market this year
have surged eightfold compared with the same period a year
earlier, with 28.2 billion rand of purchases, data from the
Johannesburg Stock Exchange show. That helped push the all-share
index to a record on Sept. 25 and valuing the MSCI South Africa
Index at 15 times estimated earnings compared with 12 for the
MSCI Emerging Markets Index.  “From local investors’ perspective, stocks are doing
great,” Chris Gilmour, an analyst at Barclays Plc unit Absa
Asset Management Private Clients, said by phone from
Johannesburg on Oct. 4. “The rand should weaken, and, as most
of the top-20 shares derive a large part of their earnings from
offshore, our market should definitely go higher.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jaco Visser in Johannesburg at 
 avisser3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  