-- TransCanada Expects U.S. Decision on Keystone XL by End of March
-- B y   R e b e c c a   P e n t y
-- 2013-10-16T17:37:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/transcanada-expects-u-s-decision-on-keystone-xl-by-end-of-march.html
TransCanada Corp. (TRP) , Canada’s second-largest pipeline company by market value, expects a U.S. ruling
on the Keystone XL pipeline in the first quarter of 2014.  The current U.S. government shutdown isn’t causing a
“material delay” in the State Department’s review of the $5.3
billion pipeline, Alex Pourbaix, TransCanada’s president of
energy and oil pipelines, said today at a conference in Calgary,
where the company is based. TransCanada expects a final
environmental impact statement from the department “this
fall,” he said.  “It does appear a lot of the work is getting done at the
agencies,” Pourbaix told reporters.  Keystone XL would connect rising oil-sands production in
 Alberta  with U.S. Gulf Coast refineries. The project has become
a lightning rod for environmental opponents seeking to slow oil-sands development. Trade groups and the Canadian government have
rallied behind the line, calling it a job creator.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  rejected the line in January
2012, citing threats posed by its route through ecologically
sensitive lands in  Nebraska , and invited TransCanada to re-apply. The company split the project in two last year,
proceeding with the southern portion that doesn’t require a
permit, and reapplied for approval of the northern leg with a
new Nebraska route.  U.S. mid-term elections next year pose a larger threat to a
Keystone XL decision than the U.S. government shutdown, Pourbaix
said.  “Obviously this is a political file,” Pourbaix said.
“Sometimes big important issues get tabled in elections.”  Enbridge Inc. (ENB)  is Canada’s largest pipeline company by
market value.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rebecca Penty in Calgary at 
 rpenty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  