-- Transat to Weigh Mergers, Cash Return to Holders by 2015
-- B y   F r e d e r i c   T o m e s c o
-- 2013-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/transat-to-weigh-mergers-cash-return-to-holders-by-2015.html
Transat A.T. Inc. (TRZ/B) ,  Canada ’s biggest
tour operator, may return cash to shareholders or consider
acquisitions as soon as the end of 2014 as a two-year-old
turnaround plan starts paying off, its top executives said.  The shares have surged 83 percent this year amid optimism
over a profit rebound, while an index of small-capitalization
Canadian stocks fell 1.8 percent. Montreal-based Transat said
last month that fiscal third-quarter earnings more than doubled
to C$30.8 million ($29.7 million), beating analysts’ estimates.  “We think the company is capable of generating C$50
million or more annually” in net income, Chief Financial
Officer Denis Petrin said in an Oct. 10 interview at Transat’s
headquarters. “When we have done this once or twice, we will
start to have a considerable sum. We are not obliged to wait two
years to decide what to do with it. Let’s at least allow next
year to pass, then we will see. It’s a nice problem to have.”  Chief Executive Officer Jean-Marc Eustache and his team are
pressing ahead with a C$75 million cost-cutting plan under which
they trimmed capacity at the Air Transat charter carrier,
negotiated cheaper aircraft leases, scrapped unprofitable air
routes and won concessions from flight attendants.  The company, which served about 1.8 million travelers in
2012, also introduced higher-margin deluxe hotel packages and a
new reservation system that allows staff to maximize sales by
adjusting prices every 10 minutes instead of every day.  Cash Options  Transat’s cash-deployment options include buying back
stock, reinstating the dividend and acquiring smaller rivals,
Eustache said in the interview. Transat suspended its dividend
in March 2009, citing a need to “conserve cash.”  Transat is expected to earn C$43.7 million this year and
C$51.6 million in fiscal 2014, the average estimates in
Bloomberg  surveys  of five and seven analysts respectively. It
had about C$389 million of cash as of July 31, the highest end-of-quarter balance since October 2006, based on data compiled by
Bloomberg. Transat had no long-term debt and C$684.7 million in
“off-balance sheet arrangements” such as aircraft leases.  “Cash is important but you are getting very little return
on cash now so it’s not helping earnings growth,” said John Zechner, chairman at J. Zechner Associates Inc. in Toronto,
which manages about C$2.2 billion in assets and holds Transat
stock. “At some point you want to see them deploy it into a
more productive use.”  Repurchasing shares “would make sense,” Zechner said in a
telephone interview.  Cheapest Value  Transat is coming off  losses  of C$16.7 million last year
and C$14.7 million in fiscal 2011. Results for fiscal 2013,
which ends Oct. 31, will show a profit, Petrin said without
being more specific. Transat said last month that fourth-quarter
profit will climb from the same period in 2012. It will report
fourth-quarter results Dec. 12.  Transat fell 0.7 percent to C$10.86 in Toronto yesterday,
giving it a market value of $417.7 million. In August 2012, it
closed as low as C$2.91. The shares’ year-to-date gain ranked
No. 15 among 220 companies in the S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange
Smallcap Index.  Transat’s value is the cheapest relative to free  cash flow 
among 32 Canadian consumer goods and services small-capitalization stocks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The company’s enterprise value amounts to about 0.5 times free
cash flow, compared with an average of about 28 times for the
group, the data show. Enterprise value is defined as market
capitalization plus total debt minus cash.  ‘Volatile Industry’  “The stock was ridiculously underpriced, and it’s still
cheap,” said Zechner. “They’ve focused on bringing their
expenses down and getting their margins higher. Still, this is a
volatile industry and I don’t think you can ever take your eye
off the ball.”  Transat owes its losses of the past two years to its
performance in its fiscal first and second quarters, which run
from November through the end of April. Stiffer competition from
rivals such as closely held Sunwing Airlines contributed to the
losses, said David Tyerman, an analyst at  Canaccord Genuity  in
Toronto who recommends investors buy Transat stock.  Transat estimates it and Toronto-based Sunwing each control
29 percent of the Canadian market for vacation packages to so-called sun destinations such as  Mexico  and the Caribbean from
November through April, according to a company  presentation  to
investors.  Air Canada (AC/B) , the country’s largest airline, has 14
percent, while Calgary-based WestJet Airlines Ltd. has 17
percent, according to Transat estimates.  ‘Accordion Fleet’  “Our big challenge is the coming winter season,” CEO
Eustache, 65, said in the Transat boardroom, which boasts a view
of Montreal’s Mount Royal. “We’ve lost money in the past four
winters. We have to deliver the goods this time.”  To get there, Eustache and his team plan to adjust Air
Transat’s fleet based on seasonal needs -- removing fuel-guzzling Airbus SAS A330 wide-body jets during the winter
months, and adding them back for service to  Europe  starting in
May. Eustache calls the plan “our accordion fleet.”  In April, Transat said it would add four leased  Boeing Co. (BA) 
737 aircraft to its fleet on routes to sun destinations starting
in May 2014, and would stop outsourcing the work to Canada’s
CanJet Airlines. Including concessions made by labor unions,
Transat said last month that it expects the moves to help save
C$20 million annually starting in 2015.  Cheaper aircraft rents will also lower operating costs.
Transat said in July it renewed leases on six A330s with
International Lease Finance Corp. through 2020 and 2021 “with
improved terms.”  Adding Capacity  Transat’s drive to improve profitability comes as Air
Canada builds its new leisure carrier, Rouge, which will cost
about 20 percent less to operate than the company’s main jet
operations. Capacity will jump 9 percent to 11 percent next
year, with most of the growth on international routes, Montreal-based  Air Canada (AC/A)  said Aug. 7.  “We know Air Canada is going to add capacity especially on
the wide-body side, so there is risk there for sure,” said
Canaccord Genuity’s Tyerman. “So far it hasn’t been a problem,
but Air Canada is going to have a lot more capacity next year
and in 2015. Meantime Transat is doing the right thing by
controlling capacity and cutting costs, which is beneficial to
margins.”  While Transat hasn’t made a decision on how to use its
 cash , Eustache said there will be no shortage of takeover
targets if the company chooses to pursue acquisitions.  “We’re always approached to buy things, but now is not the
time,” Eustache said, declining to identify possible
transactions. “When we have turned the company around and it
produces profits like we think it can, we can start thinking
about expansion. Before that, we have to make sure Transat
becomes a well-oiled machine again. We’re not there yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frederic Tomesco in Montreal at 
 tomesco@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  