-- Real Climbs as U.S. Accord Prospect Bolsters Brazil Intervention
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2013-10-16T13:29:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/real-climbs-as-u-s-accord-prospect-bolsters-brazil-intervention.html
Brazil ’s real rose to a four-month
high as the prospect of a U.S. budget agreement bolstered the
Latin American nation’s effort to support its currency.  The real gained 0.5 percent to 2.1673 per  U.S. dollar  at
10:26 a.m. in Sao Paulo, the strongest level on a closing basis
since June 14. The gain was the biggest among emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg after the  Mexican peso , which
advanced 0.6 percent. Swap rates on contracts maturing in
January 2016 decreased one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 11.01 percent.  “The Latin American currencies are up as people take for
granted that the U.S. won’t drive off a cliff,”  Eduardo Suarez ,
a strategist at Bank of  Nova Scotia , said in a phone interview
from Toronto. “People are assuming it
won’t go that far, and even if it does, there are a lot of
alternative ways they can get around a default.”  Brazil sold $498 million of foreign-exchange swaps today
under the $60 billion intervention program to shore up the
currency and curb import price increases. Since the central bank
announced the program Aug. 22, the real has climbed 12 percent,
the most among all of the world’s dollar counterparts.  Economic activity grew 1.32 percent in the 12 months
through August after a prior expansion of 3.38 percent, the
central bank reported today. The median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg was for 1.5 percent increase in the proxy
for gross domestic product.  In the U.S., Senate leaders rushed to lock up an agreement
to end the fiscal impasse, stepping in after House Republicans’
last-minute plan to avert a U.S. government default collapsed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net ;
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  