-- RHB Expands Abroad With Philippine Partner Talks: Southeast Asia
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   L i a u   Y - S i n g
-- 2013-10-16T01:56:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/rhb-expands-abroad-with-philippine-partner-talks-southeast-asia.html
RHB Investment Bank Bhd., a unit of
Malaysia’s  fourth-largest lender , said it’s in talks with
potential partners in the  Philippines  to further its push into
Southeast Asia’s fast-growing economies and boost revenue.  “We’ll start with a joint venture first, with a preemptive
right to buy out the joint venture probably a few years down the
road,” Mike Chan, managing director of the Kuala Lumpur-based
company, said in an interview.  The investment bank, owned by  RHB Capital Bhd. (RHBC) , wants to
increase overseas  revenue  to as much as 40 percent by 2017, from
25 percent now, Chan said. The group has expanded its presence
in Singapore and  Thailand , and gained footholds in countries
including  Indonesia  after buying OSK Investment Bank Bhd. last
year for 1.95 billion ringgit ($617 million).  RHB is following bigger Malaysian lenders Malayan Banking
Bhd. and CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. in extending their regional
reach for growth. Maybank bought Singapore brokerage Kim Eng
Holdings Ltd. for S$1.79 billion ($1.4 billion) in 2011, and
CIMB acquired most of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Asia-Pacific investment banking interests last year.  “We are going to shift the playground from Malaysia to
 Southeast Asia ,” Chan, who was appointed managing director in
September, said in the Oct. 14 interview.  In Indonesia, the bank wants to complete its planned
acquisition of a stake in PT Bank Mestika Dharma, while
increasing its own treasury services and broking platform, he
said. RHB Investment wants to extend its presence in Singapore
and Thailand with more of its own banking services, Chan said,
adding that he would also like to expand in  China .  ‘Relatively Untapped’  RHB  shares  rose as much as 1.7 percent to 7.70 ringgit
today, their biggest intraday gain since Sept. 23. Winson Ng, an
analyst at CIMB, named the stock as his top Malaysian banking
pick on its regional expansion plan, dislodging Maybank. He has
a price target of 11.30 ringgit and an outperform rating,
meaning RHB is expected to show positive total returns of at
least 10 percent over the next 12 months, according to a report
from CIMB today.  “It’s a right move to expand in the Asean countries,”
said  Jason Chong , chief investment officer at Manulife Asset
Management Services Bhd. in Kuala Lumpur, who oversees $1
billion. “The Philippines is still relatively untapped.”  Asean refers to the 10-member  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations , and the Philippines is the missing link among the
region’s biggest economies in terms of RHB’s investment banking
operations.  The Philippines won a debt rating upgrade from Moody’s
Investors Service this month, completing the nation’s ascent to
investment rank as President  Benigno Aquino  leads a growth
resurgence that is outpacing the rest of the region.  Kam’s Vision  RHB wants to be among Southeast Asia’s top eight banks for
handling acquisitions in the next two years, RHB Capital
Managing Director Kellee Kam said in an interview in April. The
company was ranked 14th in 2012 after managing $8.8 billion of
deals, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The OSK Investment acquisition saw the company overtake
CIMB to become  Malaysia ’s  largest  equities broker by trading
volume, according to stock exchange data. The purchase broadened
the group’s distribution network, enabling RHB to better manage
deals, Chan said.  RHB expects to handle at least 10 initial public offerings
next year, said Chan, who is currently managing a Kuala Lumpur
share sale for Karex Bhd., the world’s biggest condom maker.  Syndicated Loans  RHB was Malaysia’s biggest mandated arranger for syndicated
loans last year with a 19.2 percent market share, according to
Bloomberg underwriter rankings. It has slipped this year to
sixth place, handling 6.6 percent of transactions, the data show.  “In terms of syndicated loans, we are a bit cautious on
the credits that are coming to the market,” Chan said. “We
have actually agreed to enter into a few large deals but these
deals won’t come on stream until early next year.”  RHB is the third-biggest arranger of Malaysian corporate
bonds this year, with 7.3 billion ringgit of deals, after CIMB
and AMMB Holdings Bhd., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The bank is in talks with companies in Indonesia and
Thailand to arrange ringgit-denominated debt sales, Angus Salim Amran, its head of financial markets, said in an Oct. 14
interview in  Kuala Lumpur .  “Part and parcel of the regionalization initiative is to
bring more issuers to tap the ringgit market as well as us
looking to distribute more ringgit bonds into the region,”
Angus said. “What we’ve seen is issuers looking to tap our
market as it remains relatively resilient to capital outflows.”  RHB handled 750 million ringgit worth of Islamic bond sales
for Singapore-listed plantation company Golden Agri-Resources
Ltd. this year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We do have some large corporate issuances looking to tap
the market before the year is out,” Angus said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Liau Y-Sing in Kuala Lumpur at 
 yliau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net  