-- Roberts Court Cloaks Activism in Complexity
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2013-10-16T20:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/roberts-court-cloaks-activism-in-complexity.html
To understand the U.S.  Supreme
Court ’s order on greenhouse-gas regulations, I had to read it
three times -- and I’m a law professor. The complication isn’t a
coincidence. It’s the very essence of the imprint that Chief
Justice  John Roberts  is putting on the court.  As its ninth term clicks into gear, the Roberts court has
finally developed something like an identity of its own. It
avoids highly activist conservative headlines that would drive
Democrats to the polls. At the same time, behind a screen of
legal complexity, it achieves significant conservative
objectives.  The court’s health-care decision is an obvious recent
example: Roberts cast the deciding vote to uphold mandatory
coverage, enraging conservatives and encouraging liberals. But
by striking down the provision that pressured states to extend
Medicaid, the court gutted the universal coverage that was the
Affordable Care Act’s ethical ideal.  The regulation of greenhouse-gas emissions bids fair to
produce a similarly confusing result. The court had been asked
to review a decision of the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the D.C.
Circuit that upheld Environmental Protection Agency regulations
on  greenhouse gases  that are the  Barack Obama  administration’s
most significant accomplishments for environmental protection.
The court declined to review -- and thus left in place -- the
regulations on motor-vehicle emissions. It also chose not to
review the basic question of the EPA’s authority to regulate
greenhouse gases. Environmentalists cheered this result.  Technical Question  At the same time, however, the court  agreed to review  a
single, wildly technical-sounding question: “Whether EPA
permissibly determined that its regulation of greenhouse gas
emissions from new motor vehicles triggered permitting
requirements under the  Clean Air Act  for stationary sources that
emit greenhouse gases.” What this question asks in English,
roughly speaking, is whether the EPA was allowed to issue
emissions regulations governing factories and  power plants  under
the authority of the law that lets it regulate cars and trucks.
And what that means in practical terms is that the court could
strike down the Obama EPA’s existing greenhouse-gas regulations
for the nonmoving (“stationary”) polluters who create much of
the pollution that drives global warming.  Behold the Roberts paradigm! Or don’t behold it: The hand
is quicker than the eye. The headline allows environmental
regulation to stand. The fine print suggests that the most
important part of the existing regulations enacted by the Obama
administration could be ditched.  And, remarkably enough, environmentalists are buying into
the shell game as well. Some experts hastened to explain that,
even if the Roberts court were to strike down the stationary-source regulations on the grounds that they were not authorized
by laws permitting regulation of motor vehicles, there would
still be other ways under the Clean Air Act to enact such rules.
The court’s decision to hear the case, they implied, shouldn’t
worry environmentalists too much.  The experts’ observation is technically correct but could
prove too optimistic. The administration plans to enact
different regulations covering coal-fired power plants, under
different authority. But if the court were to strike down the
existing stationary-source regulations in June 2014, significant
uncertainty will result. The court’s reasoning, which cannot be
foreseen, could potentially call into question other types of
regulation. The litigation surrounding the planned regulations -
- and believe me, there’ll be litigation -- will have to take
into account the court’s reasoning, whatever it may be. The
apparently narrow question to be addressed doesn’t guarantee a
holding acoustically sealed off from regulations under different
authority.  Lobbying Power  Not coincidentally, the energy producers and manufacturers
who make up the stationary-source polluters form a concentrated
interest group. They will lobby to fight the new regulations, no
doubt using the argument that greenhouse gases have already been
significantly cut by regulating drivers. And, of course,
drivers’ interests are more diffuse, so (surprise!) their
lobbying power is weaker. They are, in short, perfect patsies to
take the regulatory hit.  All this adds up to an extremely sophisticated strategy for
the justices who agreed to take the case. Even if they strike
down the regulations, they will be doing so on the highly
technical basis that the EPA relied on the wrong source of
authority. Environmentalists will focus the public’s attention
on enacting new regulation, thereby distracting the public from
blaming the court. The whole decision will look Solomonic --
upholding a part of the regulations while striking down another
part -- rather than like pro-business activism. The court’s
legitimacy will be preserved, even strengthened.  What makes this strategy hallmark John Roberts is how
markedly it differs from the approaches of the court’s other
conservatives. Justice  Antonin Scalia , still the intellectual
leader of the conservative wing into his increasingly
cantankerous mid-70s, declares his broad principles of
originalism and textualism and puts them into practice, most of
the time consistently. His swashbuckling decisions and clever,
incisive rhetoric leave you in no doubt where he stands. You can
love him or hate him (I myself feel both emotions, usually
simultaneously), but you always, always know where he stands.
Justice  Clarence Thomas  is similarly out there, lauding the
virtues of the 18th century. No one could call either of these
justices crafty.  In their decades on the court -- each having served with
Chief Justice William Rehnquist -- Scalia and Thomas never
managed to achieve the conservative revolution that the Ronald
Reagan era promised and the Federalist Society championed.
Radical -- and radically consistent -- they couldn’t hold the
center, frequently losing the votes of Justices Sandra Day
O’Connor and  Anthony Kennedy  when the chips were down.
Rehnquist, equally conservative but less openly ideological,
couldn’t help. As men of principle, which judges are supposed to
be, Scalia and Thomas might feel a perverse pride in never
winning the big ones. As men of action, they have mostly failed.  Roberts is a horse of a different color. As a former law
clerk to then-Justice Rehnquist, he decided to win, even at the
cost of temporarily alienating his conservative elders. His
legal craft is unmatched -- because if you’re the Supreme Court,
it’s much better to win while appearing to lose than to lose by
insisting on looking as if you’ve won.  (Noah Feldman, a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Cool War: The Future of Global Competition,” is
a Bloomberg View columnist. Follow him on Twitter at
 @NoahRFeldman .)  For Related News and Information:  To contact the writer of this article:
 Noah Feldman  at  noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at  mduenwald@bloomberg.net . 