-- Russia to Double IT Exports to $11 Billion to Cut Oil Dependence
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-10-16T09:37:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/russia-to-double-it-exports-to-11-billion-to-cut-oil-dependence.html
Russia  aims to more than double its
information technology exports to $11 billion by 2020 to
decrease the economy’s dependence on commodities, according to a
strategy drafted by the Telecommunications Ministry.  Russian IT exports are approaching $5 billion this year,
Deputy Minister Mark Shmulevich said in an interview in Moscow.  “It’s a meaningful figure, compared with the country’s
arms export of about $15 billion,” he said. “It shows that
Russia has competitive IT products to offer.”  Russia plans to help its domestic IT companies compete with
global technology companies such as Google Inc., Facebook Inc.
and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , which are expanding in the country, the
strategy shows. Search engine  Yandex NV (YNDX)  and social-networks
operator  Mail.ru Group Ltd. (MAIL)  already dominate the Russian market,
beating foreign rivals.  “Russia has several Internet giants which are mid-sized
companies on the global scale, while other market participants
are much smaller,” Shmulevich said. “That’s why for a
breakthrough technology startup it’s often easier to find
investors abroad. We plan to change this.”  The Telecommunications Ministry will support joint projects
by Russian scientific institutes and local IT companies to
develop technologies such as speech and video-image recognition,
robotics, cyber-security and cloud services, the strategy shows.  “We realize that IT is a global industry, and we don’t
plan to ban anything foreign,” Shmulevich said. “Instead, we
plan to support domestic companies with state orders for R&D,
loans and other market mechanisms to let them develop and gain
international success.”  Besides publicly traded Yandex and Mail.ru, the Ministry
names Kaspersky Lab,  ABBYY , Dr.Web,  1C  and Positive Technologies
as examples of Russian IT companies which have gained
recognition abroad.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  