-- Samsung Loses Bid to Block Sanctions in Apple Patent Case
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2013-10-16T04:00:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/samsung-loses-bid-to-block-licensing-order-in-apple-patent-case.html
Samsung Electronics (005930)  Co. lost a bid
to block a ruling requiring it to produce information about the
extent of its violation of a court order protecting  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s
patent licensing agreements.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose, California,
upheld U.S. Magistrate Paul S. Grewal’s sanction requiring
Samsung to produce Apple e-mails, communications among Samsung
employees, and to make available to Apple various witnesses
because of its violation. Samsung argued Grewal’s order was
“grossly overbroad,” and would cause it to violate attorney-client protections.  “In light of the fact that Samsung has been unable to
produce satisfactory answers to any questions about the extent
and use of the improper disclosures despite having three months
to investigate, this court finds that it was necessary for
Magistrate Judge Grewal to order court-supervised discovery and
that the scope of his order was not overly broad,” Koh wrote in
her ruling yesterday.  Koh’s order is part of a patent dispute in federal court in
 San Jose , California, between the companies covering technology
in smartphones. In the first of two lawsuits, a jury awarded
Cupertino, California-based Apple $1.05 billion in damages --
later lowered to $639.4 million -- finding Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung infringed six of the iPhone maker’s mobile-device
patents.  Nokia, Ericsson  The violation concerns copies of Apple’s patent license
agreements with  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , Ericsson,  Sharp Corp. (6753)  and  Royal
Philips (PHIA)  NV. Apple produced reports containing “key terms” of
the agreements -- marked “Attorney Eyes’ Only” -- as part of
information sharing in the patent-infringement litigation before
Koh, according to Grewal’s Oct. 2 order.  Samsung’s outside counsel e-mailed a version of the report
to Samsung employees and lawyers representing the company in
“courts and jurisdictions outside the United States,”
according to the order.  Adam Yates , a Samsung spokesman, declined to comment on
Koh’s ruling. Kristin Huguet, an Apple spokeswoman, also
declined to comment on it.  The earlier case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co.
Ltd., 11-cv-1846, and the second case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 12-cv-630, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  