-- Sanofi Cholesterol Drug Beats Merck’s Zetia in Late-Stage Study
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t   a n d   A l b e r t i n a   T o r s o l i
-- 2013-10-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/sanofi-cholesterol-drug-beats-merck-s-zetia-in-late-stage-study.html
Sanofi and  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals
Inc. (REGN) ’s experimental treatment alirocumab lowered cholesterol
three times more than  Merck & Co. (MRK) ’s Zetia in the first late-stage study of a drug that may garner $3 billion sales annually.  In a trial dubbed Odyssey Mono that involved 103 patients,
alirocumab reduced levels of LDL, so-called bad cholesterol, by
47 percent after 24 weeks of treatment, compared with 16 percent
among those receiving Zetia, the companies said in an e-mailed
statement today.  Alirocumab has so far shown “an unprecedented reduction in
LDL,” Jay Edelberg, the executive overseeing the drug’s
development for Sanofi, said in a telephone interview. “It
offers the promise of being able to get patients to and below
their LDL targets. It would be a big deal for patients.”  The results give Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN)  the lead in a race with
 Amgen Inc. (AMGN) ,  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Roche Holding AG (ROG)  to be first to
market with a new class of drugs called PCSK9 inhibitors. Sanofi
and Regeneron aim to begin selling the medicine by the end of
2015 and to make it available worldwide in 2016, Edelberg said.
Annual sales may total more than $3 billion by 2025, according
to  Alistair Campbell , an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London .
That would help Sanofi replace revenue lost to generic
competitors of its Plavix and Lovenox blood thinners.  “Sanofi believes it will be in a position to launch ahead
of Amgen, but it is unlikely to be far ahead,” Campbell wrote
in a Sept. 27 research report.  Drug Alliance  Sanofi won rights to alirocumab as part of an alliance with
the Tarrytown, New York-based biotechnology company Regeneron,
in which it owns a 17 percent stake. Sanofi Chief Executive
Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said last month that increasing the
holding to the 30 percent allowed under the companies’
partnership agreement “could well make sense.”  “How fast we do that, whether or not we do that, is a
function of a number of different factors,” Viehbacher said
during a Bank of America-Merrill Lynch conference on Sept. 13.  The results are the first from 12 trials of alirocumab on
more than 23,000 patients. The largest test, Odyssey Outcomes,
is designed to determine whether the treatment prevents
fatalities from heart attack and stroke compared with a placebo.  Heart disease and stroke are the two biggest causes of
death worldwide, accounting for almost  22 percent of deaths  in
2011, according to the Geneva-based  World Health Organization .
The low-density lipoprotein, or LDL, form of cholesterol only
comes from eating animal products, and it raises the risk of the
two illnesses by clogging arteries, according to the  American
Heart Association .  Medical Need  “There’s a crying need here for more drugs,” George Yancopoulos, Regeneron’s chief scientific officer, said in a
telephone interview. “So many people do not get to goal on
statins alone or are intolerant of statins. There’s a real
medical demand.”  Patients will be able to inject alirocumab themselves
through a single shot every two weeks, Edelberg said.  The auto-injector device “is designed to make the
experience as easy for the patient as possible,” he said.
“It’s a small needle, the patient doesn’t see it.”  Alirocumab is a so-called monoclonal antibody designed to
lower LDL cholesterol by targeting the PCSK9 enzyme that leads
to higher levels of the fat in blood by preventing liver cells
from processing the substance. Pfizer, Roche, Amgen and  Alnylam
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY)  are also working on anti-PCSK9 treatments.  The drugs are being developed for patients who can’t take
or aren’t helped enough by statins, a class of cholesterol-lowering medicines that includes Pfizer’s Lipitor and
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ’s Crestor. About 12 million people in the U.S.
and 21 million worldwide don’t achieve the recommended reduction
in LDL cholesterol with statins, according to a Sanofi
 presentation  last year.  Zetia will be Whitehouse Station, New Jersey-based Merck’s
second-biggest selling drug this year, with sales of $2.6
billion, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  More detailed results from alirocumab will be presented
during a medical conference in 2014, Sanofi and Regeneron said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net 
Albertina Torsoli in Geneva at 
 atorsoli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  