-- SEC Lawyer Argues Stanford Victims Were SIPC ‘Customers’
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2013-10-16T20:01:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/sec-lawyer-argues-stanford-victims-were-sipc-customers-.html
The Securities Investor Protection
Corp., an industry fund that covers losses from brokerage firm
failures, must compensate victims of  Allen Stanford ’s $7 billion
 Ponzi scheme  because they were customers of a U.S.-based
brokerage, a government lawyer told an appeals court.  “We’re not claiming that anyone is covered who did not
have a brokerage account” with Houston-based Stanford Group
Co., U.S.  Securities and Exchange Commission  attorney John Avery
told a panel of the  U.S. Court of Appeals today in  Washington .
“That’s how they got sucked into this scheme.”  The SEC is seeking to overturn a lower court ruling that
blocked the agency from ordering SIPC to cover the Stanford
victims, who invested in phony certificates of deposit. U.S.
District Judge Robert Wilkins in July 2012 ruled the SEC had
failed to show the 7,000 investors in the scheme met the
definition of “customer” under the Securities Investor
Protection Act, which set up the nonprofit fund run by the
brokerage industry.  The Stanford case is the first time the SEC has gone to
court to force SIPC to extend coverage.  Michael McConnell, an attorney for SIPC, urged the judges
to uphold the ruling.  In Stanford’s swindle, his brokerage clients were directed
to buy the CDs at his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank
LLC, which was not a SIPC member, McConnell said.  ‘No Basis’  “There was no deposit of money with SGC in this case” and
thus no basis for extending coverage to its clients, McConnell
told circuit judges Merrick Garland and Sri Srinivasan. A third
judge, David Sentelle, was absent and will listen to a recording
of arguments.  Much of the hour-and-20-minute hearing was consumed by
debate over the legal definition of “customer” and whether the
SEC has authority to force SIPC to amend its rules to broaden
the meaning to include victims when a collapse involves both
member and non-member companies.  Garland said that in some cases, “the courts have thought
it reasonable to consolidate the covered with the non-covered.”  Stanford was convicted of multiple counts of  wire fraud ,
mail fraud and other charges in March 2012 and was sentenced to
110 years in prison.  SIPC, a congressionally chartered corporation, oversees
liquidation of failed brokerages and through an industry-financed fund may also pay claims of as much as $500,000 a
client for missing money and securities.  Madoff Victims  SIPC agreed to pay victims of  Bernard Madoff ’s Ponzi
scheme, in which $17 billion of principal disappeared according
to the U.S., as well as investors who lost money in the collapse
of  Lehman Brothers  in September 2008 and the MF Global Holdings
Inc. commodities brokerage in October 2011.  The SEC argued that the denial of coverage didn’t consider
the relationship between Stanford’s bank and brokerage.  “It’s very difficult to draw and distinction, a meaningful
distinction, between any of these Stanford entities,” Avery
said in court.  Money spent on the CDs from the Antiguan bank came back to
Stanford-controlled entities in the U.S., he said.  “This was a Ponzi scheme based in the  United States ,” he
said.  The SIPC fund contains about $1.9 billion and exposure from
Stanford victims is “potentially in the billions,” Dan McGinn,
a spokesman for SIPC, said in an interview last week.  ‘Unwarranted Expansion’  Former SEC commissioners  Joseph Grundfest  and  Paul Atkins 
filed a friend of the court brief urging rejection of the SEC
request because it represents an “unwarranted expansion” of
the term “customer” that would “substantially increase the
exposure of the SIPC fund.”  “The SEC’s proposed expansion of SIPC protection, absent
even the most rudimentary consideration of any financial
consequences, would radically transform the SIPA and threaten
SIPC’s ability to function as Congress intended,” they wrote.  John Coffee Jr., a professor of  securities law  at  Columbia
University , said deciding how far to extend SIPC coverage is a
fundamental question that should be addressed by Congress
“rather than through judicial lawmaking.”  “Legislation is the better way to go rather than to try to
extend SIPC coverage retroactively,” Coffee, who has no
involvement with the case, said in a telephone interview.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Securities Investor Protection Corp., 12-5286,  U.S. Court of
Appeals ,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  