-- Senate Leaders Said to Reach Deal to End Fiscal Impasse
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n ,   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2013-10-16T16:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/senate-leaders-said-to-reach-deal-to-end-fiscal-impasse.html
The bipartisan leaders of the  U.S.
Senate  reached an agreement to end the fiscal impasse, said
three Democratic aides speaking on condition of anonymity.  The agreement would end the 16-day-old government shutdown
and extend U.S. borrowing authority, which lapses tomorrow.
House Republicans today signaled that they will allow it to
pass.  The biggest remaining question is how quickly the agreement
could become law. The first votes could be held as soon as
today.  The framework negotiated by Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  would fund the
government through Jan. 15, 2014, and suspend the debt limit
until Feb. 7, setting up another round of confrontations.  On the Senate floor at noon in Washington, Reid said he
would say more when McConnell comes to the floor after meeting
with members of his party.  Representative  Kevin Brady , a Texas Republican, said on
Bloomberg Television that he thinks House Republicans’ inability
to come up with their own plan to raise the debt limit meant
that House Speaker  John Boehner  would have to accept whatever
Senate leaders come up with.  “This party is not uniting behind our core issues,” Brady
said. “As a result, I think we are all frustrated with our
ability to impact this overall agreement.”  Congress Procedure  House leaders haven’t decided whether to vote before the
Senate does, said  Michael Steel , a spokesman for Boehner. For
procedural reasons, if the House votes first, the bill could
reach President  Barack Obama ’s desk more quickly.  The Senate accord is being announced on day after a ratings
company yesterday placed the U.S.’s AAA credit rating on a
negative watch.  In the Senate, Texas Republican  Ted Cruz , who has led a
campaign against Obama’s signature health-care law, has left
open the possibility of delaying the debt-ceiling measure. If
any of the 100 senators chooses to delay it, a vote could be
pushed to as late as next week, raising the prospect of a missed
payment on the debt or delayed payments to benefit recipients,
contractors or federal workers.  Employee Furloughs  Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and McConnell, a Kentucky
Republican, temporarily suspended talks yesterday while Boehner
tried and failed to marshal House Republicans behind a plan that
was significantly scaled-down from demands for health-law
changes that led to the U.S. government shutdown on Oct. 1.  The partial shutdown has closed national parks, slowed
clinical drug trials and led to the furlough of thousands of
federal workers.  Fitch Ratings yesterday put the U.S. AAA credit grade on
ratings watch negative, citing the government’s inability to
raise the debt ceiling in a timely manner, according to a
statement after markets in  New York  closed.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 1.4 percent to
1,721.01 at 12:12 p.m. in New York after sliding 0.7 percent
yesterday.  Treasury Bills  Rates on Treasury bills maturing in the next six weeks fell
amid optimism lawmakers are working to resolve the fiscal
impasse. Rates on $120 billion of bills maturing tomorrow rose
as high as 0.36 percent yesterday before dropping to 0.13
percent.  One-month rates fell seven basis points, or 0.07 percentage
point, to 0.27 percent at 10:14 a.m. in New York after touching
0.45 percent, the highest since October 2008, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The benchmark 10-year yield rose two
basis points to 2.75 percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
data.  Under the emerging Senate agreement,  House Republicans 
would get almost none of their priorities. They tried to defund
or delay the health-care law, settling last month on trying to
delay the requirement that individuals purchase health
insurance.  Obama has described those requests as unacceptable ransom
demands and insisted that Republicans relent.  Republicans persisted after the partial government shutdown
started Oct. 1 and saw their approval ratings drop in polls.
Hardliners resisted plans that didn’t make major changes to the
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Others, such as
Representative  Peter King  of New York, stuck with Boehner while
complaining about the strategy.  Republican Strategy  Republicans “left everything on the table” by pursuing a
wrong-headed strategy, South Carolina Senator  Lindsey Graham 
told reporters today.  “We took some bread crumbs and left the entire mill on the
table,” he said. “This has been a very bad two weeks for the
Republican brand.”  Some House Republicans said they wouldn’t vote for the
Senate agreement.  “The Senate plan is not what I support,” Representative
 Jim Jordan  of  Ohio  told reporters today. “My preference is that
we address the underlying problem which is we have a $17
trillion debt and we deal with the deficit problem and we treat
people fairly under Obamacare.”  The Senate agreement trades the pressing and already-missed
deadlines for new ones over the next four months. The Treasury
Department would be allowed to use so-called extraordinary
measures to delay default for about another month beyond Feb. 7,
said a Senate Democratic aide who spoke on condition of
anonymity to discuss the plan.  Health Law  The Senate accord could include a Republican-backed
provision to tighten income verification requirements for people
receiving health-insurance subsidies. That provision is linked
to a proposal backed by Democrats and labor unions that would
delay a reinsurance fee on group health plans.  Both of those health-care provisions will either be in the
agreement or be out of the agreement.  Senate passage of a bill could be delayed into late next
week if a single senator objects, the aide said. Then that bill
would have to go to the House. Procedurally, the Senate would
have been able to act by Oct. 18 if the House had passed a bill
last night.  Cruz, who led a Republican bid to defund Obamacare, spoke
for more than 21 hours in a budget debate last month. As he
entered a party meeting today, he didn’t answer questions about
what he would do.  Borrowing Authority  U.S. borrowing authority will lapse tomorrow, leaving the
Treasury Department with only $30 billion in cash and incoming
revenues to make promised payments. Unless Congress acts, the
U.S. will begin missing payments between Oct. 22 and Oct. 31,
according to the  Congressional Budget Office .  Boehner tried several times over the past month to
construct a debt-limit bill that House Republicans could
support, and he hasn’t brought any proposals to a vote.
Republicans didn’t have enough votes for the measure yesterday,
said a leadership aide who spoke on condition of anonymity to
discuss vote counting.  Unlike previous stopgap spending measures, the House bill
wouldn’t have made big changes to the 2010 health-care law, and
it contains no cuts to entitlement programs that Republicans
sought to add to a debt-limit increase or spending bill.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  