-- Shanghai Free-Trade Zone Office Rents Jump on Demand, CBRE Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-10-16T02:12:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/shanghai-free-trade-zone-office-rents-jump-on-demand-cbre-says.html
Office rents in Shanghai’s
designated free-trade zone have doubled in three months as
building owners take advantage of companies rushing to register
an address in the region, according to  CBRE Group Inc. (CBG)   A surge in demand for a presence in the 29-square-kilometer
(11-square-mile) area has pushed up asking rents to 4.2 yuan
($0.69) per square meter (10.76 square feet) per day, double the
level in July, Los Angeles-based broker CBRE said in a report
released yesterday.  Shanghai, the nation’s commercial hub, last month
inaugurated the zone as a testing ground for free-market
policies that Premier Li Keqiang has signaled may later be
implemented more broadly in the world’s second-largest economy.
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of China Ltd.  are
among financial institutions that have won approval to set up a
sub-branch in the region. HSBC’s outlet will start by early next
year, Europe’s largest lender said Oct. 12.  “There’s definitely lot of speculation,” Sam Xie, a
research director at CBRE, said at a press conference in
 Shanghai  yesterday. “As long as it’s office space, no matter
how small, it rents out quickly for companies to register there.
It will take some time for people to realize the plan is
actually a long-term process.”  B-Grade Offices  The State Council on Sept. 27 announced plans to allow
trials of yuan convertibility in capital flows and permit
foreign companies to invest in more of the nation’s service
industries in the zone. The free-trade zone covers four customs
areas where goods stored are exempted from tariffs and value
added taxes: Waigaoqiao bonded zone and logistics park, Pudong
airport zone, and Yangshan port zone, according to the
government.  There is 400,000 square meters of office space similar to
Grade B in the zone, of which 56 percent is more than 10 years
old, CBRE said. Selling prices for offices in the area have
risen about 20 percent since September with the highest asking
price hitting 35,000  yuan  per square meter, similar to the cost
of buildings sold this year in the city’s center, CBRE said.  Office rents in the free-trade zone are still lagging
behind the Shanghai average, which rose 0.3 percent in the third
quarter from the previous quarter to 251 yuan per square meter
per month, according to the report.  A majority of companies registered in the zone are small-to-medium-sized private Chinese companies that may not move into
the zone in the near term, according to CBRE.  “The effect we see in the free trade zone is not going to
twist the overall office market in Shanghai,” said Xie. “For a
long time, we will see a lot of companies registered in the zone
but operate outside.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Bonnie Cao in Shanghai at 
 bcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  