-- SNC-Lavalin Falls After Cutting Annual Forecast: Montreal Mover
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   C h e n
-- 2013-10-16T20:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/snc-lavalin-cuts-full-year-profit-forecast-on-africa-projects.html
SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. (SNC) ,  Canada ’s
largest engineering company, declined the most in two months
after cutting its annual profit forecast for the second time
amid costs related to projects in North Africa.  The  shares  fell 4.5 percent to C$42.13 at the close in
Toronto, for their biggest daily decline since Aug 2.  The forecast reduction is a setback for the turnaround
efforts of Chief Executive Officer Robert Card, who took over
last year as the company grappled with a fraud investigation and
investor lawsuits. SNC today cited its infrastructure and
environment unit, specifically in the hospital and road sectors,
as well as the projects in North Africa for the revised outlook.  “The shares are deeply discounted, the balance sheet is
very, very solid in our view and we think that these problems
and these issues will pass,” Yuri Lynk, an analyst at Canaccord
Genuity in  Montreal , said today in an interview. “There’s a
whole new management team in there that is impressive. Patient
investors will do well if they can handle the short term
volatility.”  Lynk has a buy rating on the shares.  Net income for fiscal 2013 will be C$10 million ($9.7
million) to C$50 million, reduced from a previous range of
C$220 million to C$235 million, the Montreal-based company said
yesterday in a statement. SNC had previously cut its full-year
forecast in August, also citing losses in North Africa and in
its infrastructure and environment unit.  The company also said it will record a charge of about
C$75 million this year related to a European reorganization.  The shares have gained 4.5 percent this year, compared with
a 4.2 percent increase for the S&P/Toronto Stock Exchange
Composite Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Caroline Chen in  New York  at 
 cchen509@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  