-- South Korea Sees Won-to-Bond Risks as U.S. Impasse Adds Stress
-- B y   C y n t h i a   K i m
-- 2013-10-16T04:57:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/south-korea-sees-won-to-bond-risks-as-u-s-impasse-adds-stress.html
South Korea warned of risks of
volatility in the won and stresses within the nation’s bond
market as the U.S. grapples with the threat of a default that
could roil the global economy.  Prolonged tension over U.S. fiscal policy adds to the
danger of increased volatility in financial markets, the finance
ministry said in a report prepared for a parliamentary audit
today. Bond issuance by companies with low credit ratings may
wither, the report said, amid a criminal probe and financial
crisis at the Tong Yang Group.  South Korea will strengthen monitoring of financial markets
and act quickly if necessary to curb volatility in its
currency, the finance ministry said. Speaking in the city of
Sejong, Finance Minister Hyun Oh Seok highlighted concern over
the effect of Federal Reserve plans to reduce monetary stimulus
when the U.S. economy strengthens sufficiently.  The won was little changed at 1,066.2 per dollar as of 1:36
p.m. in  Seoul .  In the U.S., Senate leaders are reopening talks aimed at
avoiding a default and ending a 15-day-old government shutdown,
while Fitch Ratings has put the world’s biggest economy on watch
for a possible credit downgrade.  The outlook for U.S. monetary policy is “causing
volatility in financial markets, especially in the emerging
economies,” Hyun said.  “We are concerned that bond issuance of low credit-rating
companies may wither,” the finance ministry said in the report.
“We’re concerned that marginal firms may have difficulties in
their corporate financing.” The ministry said it will “closely
inspect the corporate financing market and support refinancing
of viable firms through creditor banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cynthia Kim in Seoul at 
 ckim170@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  