-- South Africa Seen Facing Legal Battle Over Fracking Rules
-- B y   P a u l   B u r k h a r d t
-- 2013-10-16T08:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/south-africa-seen-facing-legal-battle-over-fracking-rules.html
South Africa ’s plans to exploit
shale-gas reserves are “indefensible” and will lead to a legal
battle, an environmental group said after the government
published draft regulations on drilling in the Karoo region.  “An expensive taxpayer-funded court case is unavoidable,”
Jonathan Deal, chief executive officer of the  Treasure Karoo
Action Group , said by e-mail. “Shale gas in this country would
pose a dubious short-term benefit fraught with huge risk.”  South Africa yesterday published proposed regulations for
hydraulic fracturing, a year after lifting a ban on the drilling
process known as fracking, as it seeks to tap as much as 485
trillion cubic feet of resources in the Karoo. Opponents of the
practice, which blasts water, chemicals and sand into rock to
release natural gas, say it risks contaminating ground water.  The draft rules require drillers to meet  American Petroleum
Institute  standards governing the type of equipment used and the
disclosure of chemicals. The move to pursue exploration follows
a shale boom in the U.S., while diverging from policy in  France ,
the Netherlands and  Bulgaria  where fracking has been restricted
or banned in response to public protests.  “The actions and tactics of the South African government
with regard to shale gas mining is indefensible,” Deal said.
“The country has had almost three years to observe the fracas
developing around shale gas and to take a more prudent and
especially inclusive approach.”  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  and other explorers have applied for
permits to explore the semi-desert Karoo region. South Africa,
which imports 70 percent of its crude-oil needs, estimates shale
gas may generate 1 trillion rand ($100 billion) of sales within
three decades, helping bring it closer to supplying its own
energy demand.  “The purpose of the draft regulations is to augment gaps
identified in the current regulatory framework,” Minister of
Mineral Resources Susan Shabangu said on the website of the
government’s national gazette. The proposed rules are open for
public comment for 30 days.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Burkhardt in Johannesburg at 
 pburkhardt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  