-- South Korea Seeks Broad Fuel Base for Energy Security, Yoon Says
-- B y   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2013-10-16T06:27:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/south-korea-seeks-broad-fuel-base-for-energy-security-yoon-says.html
South Korea  wants a broader energy
mix as it seeks to solve recurring supply shortages in  Asia ’s
fourth-largest economy, the country’s energy minister said.  The government wants its long-term energy mix “not to be
tilted too much toward a single fuel, in order to boost  energy
security ,” Yoon Sang Jick said in an e-mailed response to
questions from  Bloomberg News  at the World Energy Congress in
Daegu, South Korea. The government will also seek a “policy
balance” between supply and demand, he said.  Yoon’s remarks are the first by a top government official
after the energy ministry’s proposal to almost halve the
nation’s planned dependence on nuclear energy. The plan will
force South Korea, which imports almost all of its energy and
was this year threatened with power cuts, to increase use of
other fuels, including gas, to cope with surging consumption.  “The government will switch the policy direction to
reflect changing circumstances regarding nuclear plants and
address other problems including power shortages,” Yoon said,
without referring to the ministry proposal. “We will shift away
from the policy concentrated on supply and economic feasibility,
to focus on restoring credibility, improving citizens’ quality
of life and long-term policy sustainability.”  Nuclear energy should account for between 22 percent and 29
percent of power generation capacity by 2035, compared with a 41
percent goal introduced in 2008, the energy ministry said Oct.
13, citing the findings of a working group of academics and
state officials. The ratio was 26.4 percent last year.  The group also proposes taxing soft coal, while reducing
duties on natural gas and heating oil. The plan will be
finalized this year after public feedback and cabinet approval.  South Korea will try to curb power demand through energy
pricing policy and by improving efficiency in the long term,
Yoon said, without elaborating.  Fukushima, Scandal  Growing public concern over atomic safety following the
2011 Fukushima disaster in neighboring  Japan  and a fake report
scandal at home has deepened the dilemma facing President Park Geun Hye’s government, with power demand expected to surge
almost 60 percent by 2027. In July, Park called for tighter
government regulation and monitoring of the nuclear industry.  The government in May closed two  reactors  found to be using
substandard parts, and ordered the replacement of cables at two
others, one off-line and the other under review before
commercial operations. The shutdown led the energy ministry to
warn of “unprecedented” power shortages during the summer.
Power cuts were averted in part due to energy-saving measures.  With reactors remaining offline and South Korea heading
toward the northern hemisphere winter, the energy ministry will
next month announce its outlook for projected energy demand and
countermeasures to prevent shortages, Yoon said.  ‘Public Inconvenience’  “The situation will be better than in the summer if the
three reactors shut down in May restart before the end of the
year,” Yoon said. “We’re working to come up with measures to
maximize supply, minimize public inconvenience and cut demand.”  President Park said today in Daegu her government will
introduce measures to cut long-term power demand and create a
3.5 trillion-won market in electricity storage by 2017, creating
15,000 jobs.  South Korea’s retreat from nuclear energy, a mainstay of
the country’s energy policy since its first reactor was built in
1978, will encourage the nation to sign new liquefied natural
gas supply deals,  Peter Coleman , the chief executive officer of
 Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL) ,  Australia ’s second-largest oil and gas
producer, said in an interview. South Korea is the world’s
second-largest buyer of LNG, after Japan.  Korea Gas Corp. (036460) , the nation’s monopoly wholesale
distributor, will prepare for an increase in gas demand in line
with the new energy plan, Chief Executive Officer Jang Seok Hyo
said yesterday in Daegu.  South Korea and Japan must cooperate in the “supplier-dominated” LNG market, Yoon said. He also expects the two
nations to closely work together to develop overseas LNG
projects.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stuart Biggs at 
 sbiggs3@bloomberg.net ;
Brett Miller at 
 bmiller30@bloomberg.net  