-- Spain, England Reach World Cup; France, Uruguay Into Playoffs
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2013-10-16T05:13:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/spain-england-reach-world-cup-france-uruguay-into-playoffs.html
World champion Spain and  England 
were among seven teams to secure a soccer World Cup spot in the
final round of group qualifiers. Former winner France and 2010
semifinalist Uruguay dropped into the playoffs.  Alvaro Negredo and Juan Mata scored as Spain beat Georgia
2-0 last night to top its pool ahead of the French and advance
to next year’s 32-team tournament in Brazil. Wayne Rooney and
Steven Gerrard got England’s goals in a 2-0 win against Poland.  “We have done the job, we’ve played 10 matches unbeaten,”
England manager Roy Hodgson said in comments on the Football
Association’s website. “If you want to win the lottery you have
to buy a ticket, and we have our ticket now.”  Bosnia-Herzegovina and Russia also advanced to the four-yearly championship by winning their European qualifying groups,
while Chile and  Ecuador  grabbed South America’s final two direct
spots to send Uruguay into its fourth playoff in a row. Honduras
secured its second straight appearance to lift the number of
qualified teams alongside tournament host Brazil to 21.  Four more teams will advance from the European playoffs,
while African nations will take another five spots. The
remaining two berths will be filled by the winners of the
intercontinental playoffs between Uruguay and Jordan, and New
Zealand and  Mexico , which had two stoppage-time goals from the
U.S. to thank for keeping its qualifying campaign alive.  Spain, which won its first world title in 2010, had needed
a draw in Albacete to finish ahead of  France  and take one of
Europe’s nine group winners’ berths. Negredo and Mata scored
from close range in each half.  England ‘Excited’  At London’s Wembley Stadium, Rooney scored a 41st-minute
header for England from Leighton Baines’s cross. Gerrard made
the game safe with two minutes left, bustling through the Polish
defense before toe-poking the ball into the net.  England finished atop Group H one point ahead of  Ukraine ,
which beat San Marino 8-0.  “We have shown we are a good team and have got some
fantastic young players,” Rooney said in a televised interview.
“We are excited and this is a good time to play for England.”  Turkey lost 2-0 at home to the Netherlands in Group D to
miss out on a third straight World Cup after finishing third at
the 2002 edition.  Romania  beat the Turks to a playoff place by
defeating Estonia 2-0.  Denmark finished with a 6-0 win against Malta, though
didn’t make the playoffs because it had the worst record of the
nine second-place finishers by tallying 16 points in Group B.  Playoff Spots  France, the 1998 champion, is among the eight runners-up
who must enter the two-match playoffs on Nov. 15 and 19 for
Europe’s remaining four slots. The French finished the group
stage by beating Finland 3-0.  Russia  allowed a last-minute goal to tie with Azerbaijan in
Baku, though topped Group F by a point ahead of Portugal, which
beat Luxembourg 3-0. Roman Shirokov put Russia ahead after 15
minutes before Vagif Javadov tied it for 10-man Azerbaijan.
Russia last played at the World Cup in 2002.  Bosnia-Herzegovina striker Vedad Ibisevic scored with 22
minutes left in  Lithuania  to send his team to its first World
Cup ahead of  Greece  on goal difference. Both teams finished with
25 points in Group G after Greece beat Liechtenstein 2-0.  The European playoffs draw is Oct. 21, when Portugal,
Greece,  Croatia , Ukraine, France,  Sweden , Romania and Iceland
will be seeded into two pots. The seedings will be based on the
FIFA rankings published tomorrow.  Uruguay, Mexico  In South America,  Chile ’s 2-1 home win against Ecuador
assured both teams of finishing ahead of two-time world champion
Uruguay, whose 3-2 victory against group winner Argentina in
Montevideo wasn’t enough to overhaul Ecuador on goal difference.  Uruguay finished fifth and will face Asia playoff winner
Jordan over two matches next month for a World Cup berth.  Honduras booked the last direct spot from the North and
Central America and the Caribbean region to condemn Mexico to a
playoff. The U.S. scored twice in stoppage time at the end of
its game against  Panama  to win 3-2 and prevent its opponent from
snatching the playoff spot from Mexico on total goals scored.  Mexico will host the first game of its series against New
Zealand on Nov. 13 or 14, with the return match Nov. 20.  In yesterday’s only qualifier in  Africa ,  Ghana  routed  Egypt 
6-1 at home. The second game of their playoff is Nov. 19 in
Cairo.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in Madrid at 
 aduff4@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  