-- Stamos Buys Back Stakes From Merrill Lynch, Mets’ Wilpon
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2013-10-18T21:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/stamos-buys-back-stakes-from-merrill-lynch-mets-wilpon.html
(Corrects language on the sale of a stake to Merrill Lynch
in 2007, in penultimate paragraph of a story originally
published Oct. 16.)  Peter Stamos, the former McKinsey &
Co. consultant who joined New York Mets co-owners Fred Wilpon
and Saul Katz to start a hedge-fund firm in 2002, reacquired
their stakes through a management buyout.  Stamos Capital Partners LP bought back interests held by
the two partners as well as Merrill Lynch & Co., the New York-based firm disclosed in a regulatory filing. Katz and Wilpon
amassed a fortune by developing  real estate  through their
Sterling Equities Inc., then invested much of the excess cash
with  Bernard Madoff  and diversified their assets by providing
seed capital to Stamos.  The transaction enables Stamos to take advantage of a
buyer’s market for stakes that financial institutions hold in
money-management firms. Merrill is now owned by  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC) , which has been divesting holdings of hedge funds such as
Stamos Capital to comply with the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act.  “BofA is getting rid of all these peripheral operations,”
and “Stamos himself probably figured this was a very attractive
time” to buy the holders out, said Julian Rundle, the chief
investment officer of Dorset Management LLC, a New York-based
firm that creates customized portfolios of hedge funds for
institutional clients. “When the fish come buying, that is when
you want a hook in the water.”  Stamos, who also serves as the chairman of Major League
Baseball’s investment advisory board, didn’t return telephone
calls seeking comment.  Jerry Dubrowski , a spokesman for
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based Bank of America, and Matthew Hiltzik, a spokesman for Sterling Equities at Hiltzik
Strategies, both declined to comment on the sale.  ‘Best Interest’  Stamos’s firm had $6.6 billion of assets as of May 31 that
are invested through two business units, one that provides
clients with customized portfolios of hedge funds and another,
run by Matt Frymier, a former Bank of America executive, that
manages funds that invest in other hedge funds. Stamos was
dropping the Sterling portion of its name as it undertook the
buyout, the firm disclosed in a Sept. 17  filing  with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “We believe that it is in the best interest of our funds,
fund investors and managed account clients for the firm’s
management team to own a significant majority of the firm’s
equity,” Stamos said in the filing. “Although we have had a
long relationship with each of the departing investors,” the
buyout “does not affect how we manage the investment of the
funds” or the firm’s day-to-day operations.  Keeping Shares  Wilpon, 76, and Katz plan to maintain their investments in
Sterling Stamos’s hedge funds, according to a person familiar
with the matter who requested anonymity because the information
is confidential. Katz, Wilpon and their affiliates had about
$393 million invested in Sterling Stamos funds as of September
2008, according to a lawsuit filed by  Irving Picard , the
liquidator for Madoff’s securities firm in the wake of the Ponzi
schemer’s December 2008 arrest. The current figure is lower,
said the person familiar with the matter.  The two partners, who are brothers-in-law, founded Sterling
Equities in 1972 and turned it into a major real estate
developer, completing projects such as as the Lipstick Building
on New York’s Third Avenue and a tower for the former investment
bank Bear Stearns Cos.  Sterling entered the hedge-fund business 11 years ago by
teaming up with Stamos, an economist who, in addition to his
career at McKinsey, had also started and sold a health-care
consultancy to Perot Systems Corp. and worked as chief of staff
for Bill Bradley, the former U.S. senator from New Jersey.  Madoff Dispute  Katz and Wilpon withdrew money from their accounts with
Madoff to provide startup capital for the venture and to invest
“substantial sums” in its funds, according to Picard’s suit,
which sought to recover $1 billion from the two partners by
alleging that they should have known Madoff was running a fraud.  The Mets owners agreed in March 2012 to pay $162 million to
settle Picard’s case. Under the agreement, the amount Wilpon,
Katz and related parties owe the Madoff estate from fictitious
profits could be totally or partially offset by their own claims
for $178 million in losses.  Merrill Lynch began marketing Sterling Stamos’s funds to
institutional clients in 2004, and three years later, the
brokerage bought a non-controlling 50 percent interest in the
hedge-fund manager, 25 percent of which came from Sterling
Equities, according to Picard’s lawsuit. Sterling received $115
million for its share, the lawsuit said.  Myron Scholes, the Nobel laureate economist, became a
senior adviser to the firm in 2011, according to last month’s
filing. He now owns a stake of at least 10 percent in the firm,
the filing showed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in Washington at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  