-- Sugar May Rally to 2013 High on Fibonacci: Technical Analysis
-- B y   M a r v i n   G .   P e r e z   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2013-10-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/sugar-may-rally-to-2013-high-on-fibonacci-technical-analysis.html
Sugar, the second-best performing
commodity in the past three months, may extend a rally, taking
the March contract to the highest this year, according to a
technical analysis by FuturePath Trading LLC.  The attached chart shows March futures breached the 50
percent Fibonacci retracement on Oct. 10 and have traded near
the 61.8 percent level of 19.18 cents a pound on ICE Futures
U.S. in New York, signaling the climb may be sustained,
according to Paul Kavanaugh, the director of business
development at FuturePath. He predicts prices may rise to 20.72
cents by December, the highest for the contract since Jan 3.  “We’ve got a significant change in trend,” Kavanaugh said
in a telephone interview from  Chicago . “We may be headed for
new highs for the year,” he said.  March futures have rebounded 14 percent since reaching 16.7
cents on July 16, the lowest ever for the contract. Sugar
rallied as frost in  Brazil , the world’s largest producer, pared
yields and rains delayed the harvest. Unica, a Sao Paulo-based
sugar millers’ group, cut its estimate of production in the
Center South, the country’s main growing region, to 34.2 million
metric tons on Oct. 1, from 35.5 million in April, as yields
decline. The outlook for cane, crushed to make sugar, may be
lowered further, if rains persist, it said.  In technical analysis, investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns and prices to forecast price changes.
Fibonacci studies are based on the theory that prices rise or
fall by certain percentages after reaching a high or low.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Marvin G. Perez in New York at 
 mperez71@bloomberg.net ;
Luzi Ann Javier in New York at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  