-- Summary of Economic Reports by Federal Reserve District Banks
-- B y   V i n c e   G o l l e
-- 2013-10-16T20:15:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/summary-of-economic-reports-by-federal-reserve-district-banks.html
Following is a summary of U.S.
economic conditions as reported by the 12 Federal Reserve
district banks in the central bank’s latest regional survey,
also known as the Beige Book.  The Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago prepared the latest
report. Information was collected on or before Oct. 7.  BOSTON: “Reports from business contacts indicate the First
District economy continues to grow, at a pace that varies
depending on sector. Most retailers and manufacturers report
moderate increases in revenue, while consulting and advertising
contacts cite robust growth. Residential and commercial real
estate markets continue to improve. Aside from consulting, most
firms are doing little to no hiring, or hiring only for
replacement. Prices are largely unchanged. Firms doing business
with the government have been affected by the sequester; other
firms are also concerned about potential effects of the
government shutdown on consumer demand or broader economic
effects of hitting the debt ceiling.”  NEW YORK : “Economic growth in the Second District has
continued at a moderate pace since the last report. Labor market
conditions have shown further signs of improvement, and there
are scattered reports of wage pressures. General merchandise
retailers indicate that sales were generally steady in September
and close to plan, while new auto sales have been increasingly
robust. Tourism activity has shown some signs of picking up
since the last report. Commercial and especially residential
real estate markets have shown signs of firming. In contrast,
contacts in the manufacturing sector report a pause in growth,
and the climate in the financial sector is described as
downbeat. Bankers report softer loan demand from the household
sector, no change in credit standards, little change in loan
spreads, and continued widespread declines in delinquency rates.
More broadly, some contacts express concern about potential
disruptive effects of a prolonged federal government shutdown.”  PHILADELPHIA: “Aggregate business activity in the Third
District slowed to a modest pace of growth. Despite a slower
pace of growth in some sectors, contacts overall maintained an
outlook for moderate growth -- similar to the last  Beige Book .
The housing recovery has softened somewhat for existing home
sellers and new homebuilders, and builders are less optimistic.
However, contacts in other sectors continued to express
confidence in the underlying economy. In particular,
manufacturers and service-sector firms expressed greater
confidence in the  U.S. economy  and in global conditions. In
regard to hiring and capital expenditure plans, firms continued
to expand cautiously, as they face ongoing uncertainty from the
federal government shutdown and implementation of the Affordable
Care Act.”  CLEVELAND: “The Fourth District’s economy continued to
expand at a moderate pace during the past six weeks. On balance,
demand for manufactured products grew at a moderate rate.
Housing market activity held steady; nonetheless, sales of new
and existing homes were above year-ago levels. Retailers
reported stronger sales during August and September, while new
motor-vehicle purchases posted moderate gains on a year-over-year basis. Shale-gas activity is showing signs of moderating
due to low natural  gas prices ; still, production is at historic
highs. Output at coal mines trended lower. The rate of growth in
freight volume has slowed. Hiring was sluggish across industry
sectors. Input and finished goods prices saw little change,
apart from increases in residential construction materials.”  RICHMOND: “District economic conditions improved modestly,
on balance, since our last report. Manufacturing shipments and
new orders softened, with only a few producers reporting
strength. Retail revenues were flat to modestly higher, and auto
sales improved year over year, although a few dealers reported
recent flattening. Lending activity increased slightly, and
competition for quality loans was intense. Residential real
estate sales improved, except for higher end homes, and there
were some reports of new  home construction . Commercial leasing
varied by location and new construction was limited, except for
multi-family housing. Natural gas production rose and expansion
was expected to continue; in contrast, coal mining declined
further. Labor markets grew slowly, despite difficulty finding
skilled workers.”  ATLANTA: “Sixth District business contacts described
economic activity as expanding slowly in September. The outlook
among firms remains optimistic as most expect near-term growth
to be sustained at or slightly above current levels. Most
retailers cited slightly improved levels of spending and auto
dealers continued to experience solid results. Hospitality
reports remained largely positive. Residential brokers and
builders continued to witness improvements in many parts of the
District as sales and prices of new and existing homes increased
compared with a year ago. Commercial development picked up
slightly, led by multifamily construction. Manufacturers
indicated that new orders and production had increased since the
last report. Bankers saw increased volumes for both commercial
and consumer loans. Payrolls across the region expanded, albeit
at a slower pace than the previous report.”  CHICAGO: “The rate of growth in economic activity in the
Seventh District slowed a bit in September. Contacts remained
generally optimistic, but several expressed concern about the
potential impact of a protracted federal government shutdown.
Growth in consumer and business spending was modest.
Manufacturing production and construction continued to grow at a
moderate pace. Credit conditions changed little on balance. Cost
and wage pressures remained mild. Corn and soybean yields were
higher than expected, contributing to lower crop prices.”  ST. LOUIS: “Economic activity in the Eighth District has
grown at a moderate pace since the previous report. Recent
reports of planned activity in manufacturing and services have
been positive. Reports from contacts in the retail sector have
also been generally positive. Residential as well as commercial
and industrial real estate market conditions have continued to
improve. Total lending at a sample of small and midsized
District banks decreased from mid-June to mid-September.”  MINNEAPOLIS: “The Ninth District economy grew moderately
since the last report. Increased activity was noted in  consumer
spending , tourism, residential and commercial real estate,
professional services, manufacturing, energy and mining.
Residential and commercial construction continues to grow at a
robust rate, while agricultural conditions deteriorated
somewhat. Labor markets tightened modestly since the last
report, and wage increases were moderate. Price increases were
modest. The effects of the partial federal government shutdown
on the Ninth District economy were too early to determine.”  KANSAS CITY: “The Tenth District economy expanded modestly
in September after growing at a slightly faster pace during the
previous survey period. Consumer spending slowed somewhat as a
decrease in automobile, restaurant and tourism sales was offset
in part by an increase in retail activity. Manufacturing
activity grew modestly, and expectations for future activity
improved substantially. Commercial real estate conditions
continued to improve, and additional gains were anticipated.
Bankers reported stronger overall loan demand, improved loan
quality, and stable deposit levels. District crop yields were
expected to be about average, but falling crop prices led to
lower farm income projections. Energy activity in the District
remained solid as natural gas drilling rigs increased slightly
and the number of oil rigs edged down in September.”  DALLAS: “The Eleventh District economy expanded at a
moderate pace over the past six weeks. Manufacturing activity
increased overall and retail sales edged up. Services firms
reported mixed demand. The housing sector remained strong, with
rising construction and sales. Office and industrial leasing
activity picked up. Financial institutions said loan demand was
flat to up modestly. Energy activity remained at high levels,
and the severity of drought conditions eased somewhat. Prices
held steady or rose at most responding firms. Employment levels
were flat or slightly increased, and wage pressures picked up.”  SAN FRANCISCO: “Economic activity in the Twelfth District
expanded at a modest pace during the reporting period of late
August through early October. Price pressures were limited for
most final goods and services, and upward wage pressures
remained modest overall. Retail sales were a bit soft, while
demand for business and consumer services was mixed. District
manufacturing activity inched up. Agricultural production and
sales expanded. Demand for housing advanced, and commercial real
estate activity gained. Reports from financial institutions
indicated that loan demand rose.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vince Golle in Washington at 
 vgolle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  