-- Supercell Beats ‘Angry Birds’ From Obscurity to $3 Billion Value
-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n   a n d   K a s p e r   V i i t a
-- 2013-10-16T21:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/supercell-beats-angry-birds-from-obscurity-to-3-billion-value.html
“Angry Birds” can fend off egg-swiping pigs, but they aren’t a match for medieval soldiers.  Supercell Oy’s three-year ascent from obscurity to a $3
billion valuation illustrates the fast-changing fortunes of the
gaming industry. With a sale announced this week, the maker of
the “Clash of Clans” strategy game stole the thunder of
neighbor Rovio Entertainment Oy, the developer of “Angry
Birds” long considered  Finland ’s most likely target for a
gaming takeover or initial public offering.  Supercell co-founder Ilkka Paananen, 35, has found success
betting on a shift in gaming from consoles and big screens to
smartphones and tablets, designing free games with features that
get fans to spend more money while playing -- the so-called
freemium business model. The initial popularity of the Helsinki-based start-up’s titles in Europe and U.S. has quickly spread
elsewhere.  “What made Supercell particularly irresistible was its
remarkable summer success in  Japan ,” said Tero Kuittinen, a New
York-based analyst at Alekstra Oy, a mobile-diagnostics company.
“Right now, the app industry suspects that Rovio hasn’t yet
learned how to make freemium games that succeed in revenue
competition.”  After players download “Clash of Clans” for free, they
can wind up paying $100 a pop for additional features as they
reach new levels. In “Hay Day,” trunks of gold coins cost $80
each. Both titles are  among the top-five  iOS store grossers in
the U.S., and have been there for months, according to market
researcher App Annie.  Soaring Value  The purchase by Japan’s  SoftBank Corp. (9984)  of a 51 percent
stake for $1.53 billion marks a swift rise in Supercell’s
valuation. In April, Supercell closed a $130 million round of
financing that valued it at $780 million.  Paananen, a gaming-industry pioneer, began Supercell with
friend Mikko Kodisoja in 2010, seeking to build an organization
with no hierarchy and as few managers as possible. They were
joined with four other founding members and have continued to
work in teams of about half-a-dozen people even as it grew. It
has about 130 workers today.  Supercell hasn’t disclosed its finances, though in May it
was raking in $2.5 million daily from virtual goods sold on its
two top games, equal to about $75 million a month.  Supercell and Rovio now dominate the Finnish gaming market.
The two accounted for more than two-thirds of the industry’s 324
million-euro ($437 million) revenue last year, according to
researcher  Balance Consulting . Neogames Finland, a national non-profit industry organization, estimates the market will more
than double to 800 million euros this year.  Nokia Effect  Paananen attributes the rise of Finland’s gaming industry
partly to  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , once the world’s largest mobile-phone maker
and the country’s most valuable company by far.  “Nokia brought work both by ordering games and introducing
mobile gaming companies, also Finnish ones, to tele-operators,
which were the only distribution channel at the time,‘‘ Paananen
said in an interview last year. ‘‘They facilitated the market,
which was very useful at the time, around 2001 to 2003.’’  Last month, Nokia agreed to sell its handset business to
Microsoft Corp. in a $7.2 billion deal. In the past few years,
Nokia cutting thousands of jobs helped spur an expansion of
Finland’s startup industry.  Rovio Strategy  Supercell’s games are played on devices such as  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPads and iPhones, as well as smartphones and tablets
running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android software. ‘‘Clash of Clans”
focuses on combat strategy, with users raising barbarian armies,
while “Hay Day” simulates crop tending.  Differing from Supercell’s strategy, Rovio sells “Angry
Birds” games for a couple bucks a download -- and a version of
the title ranks as the most dowloaded paid app for iOS. Still,
its games don’t appear in the top 50 of most-grossing games --
the ones that make the most money.  To expand its revenue base, Rovio, based in Espoo near
Helsinki, has licensed its characters to everything from
lollipops and soft drinks to T-shirts, toys and theme parks. The
company is also going after  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  by expanding to
animated films.  “If Rovio is a media company, we’re a gaming company,”
Paananen said. “We live and breath games and wish to develop
games.”  Saara Bergstroem, a Rovio spokeswoman, said in an e-mail
that the Supercell deal is “very good news” for the industry
and “is certain to attract new investors.”  Even if it got beaten to a major deal by Supercell, Rovio
keeps growing. Sales doubled last year to 152 million euros,
with consumer goods accounting for about half of that. The
company said last year it’s working toward an IPO. Bergstroem
said Rovio has no announcements on its plans now.  “It is not clear how a buyer would value Rovio’s licensing
and merchandising power -- it is possible that its strength
particularly in Asia might appeal to Disney or Mattel,”
Kuittinen said. If its new titles appeal to consumers, “Rovio’s
value would increase dramatically.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in Helsinki at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
Kasper Viita in Helsinki at 
 kviita1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  