-- Russia Warns on Default Aftermath as Sweden Girds for Disruption
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   E v g e n i a   P i s m e n n a y a
-- 2013-10-16T14:55:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/sweden-girds-for-unprecedented-disruption-to-dollar-availability.html
Russia joined  China  in warning that
countries may intensify their search for alternative reserve
currencies as the U.S. struggles to avert non-payment on
Treasury bonds, with Sweden bracing itself for a default.  A U.S. failure to service its debt would threaten the low-risk status of Treasuries as collateral used around the world,
Russian central bank Chairman  Elvira Nabiullina  said in an e-mailed response to questions from Bloomberg. Endangering the
dollar’s standing “seems completely insane,” Swedish Finance
Minister Anders Borg said today, adding that his country will
ensure its financial system has access to U.S currency in the
event markets are disrupted  “The more the situation is prolonged, the more far-reaching the consequences,” Nabiullina said. “Such events
result not only in short-term jumps in volatility, but also an
erosion of trust in the dollar as a reserve currency and the
American financial system as a whole.”  The  U.S. Congress  has yet to strike an agreement to
increase the nation’s debt ceiling a day before the government
has said it will run short of funds to honor its obligations. In
an English-language commentary published Oct. 13, Liu Chang, a
writer with China’s official Xinhua News Agency, called for a
new international  reserve currency  to replace the dollar “so
that the international community could permanently stay away
from the spillover of the intensifying domestic political
turmoil” in the U.S.  ‘Completely Insane’  “As it is an enormous advantage to be a reserve currency
it seems completely insane to even contemplate creating
insecurity around that status,” Borg said.  China is the biggest foreign holder of Treasuries, with
$1.28 trillion at the end of July. Russia, which as accumulated
the world’s fourth-largest international reserves, has reduced
its  holdings  of  U.S. government debt  by 25 percent from a record
high on Oct. 31, 2010, to $131.6 billion in July, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We’ve never been in an equivalent situation before and
it’s therefore very difficult to judge what impact it will
have,” Borg said in an interview with state broadcaster SVT.
“It’s essentially about fear and psychological factors.”  Rates on Treasury bills due tomorrow surged 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, yesterday to 0.32 percent as
investors fret over the risk of non-payment.  Diversifying Reserves  While  Russia ’s central bank isn’t currently reducing its
investments in Treasuries, it will consider a wider range of
securities for its reserve holdings, central bank First Deputy
Chairman Ksenia Yudaeva told reporters today in Moscow. Bank
Rossii, which has added Canadian and Australian dollars to its
currency allocation, raised the U.S. dollar’s share to 45.8
percent as of Jan. 1 from 45.5 percent a year earlier, central
bank data show.  In Sweden, the government has repeatedly urged banks to
wean themselves off their reliance on short-term dollar funds
and warned the industry it may need to help pay for central bank
reserves dedicated to backstopping foreign currency risks.  “We have of course, together with the Swedish Financial
Supervisory Authority and the Riksbank, worked through what
counter measures are required if such an incident occurs,” Borg
said. The stalemate in the U.S. “is significant and very
serious but exactly how it will affect us is very hard to
tell,” he said.  Dollar Funding  Sweden ’s central bank said in December it was adding 100
billion kronor ($15.4 billion) to its foreign reserves to build
a buffer against risks stemming from bank industry reliance on
dollar funding. The nation’s four biggest lenders have assets
that are more than four times its gross domestic product,
prompting Sweden to impose more rigorous regulatory standards to
protect taxpayers from bank industry losses.  In neighboring  Denmark , the central bank said today it is
ready to add dollar liquidity to the nation’s banks should the
need arise.  “In the event that the U.S. debt ceiling, contrary to
expectations, isn’t raised, the broader consequences are
difficult to predict,” central bank spokesman Karsten Biltoft
said in an e-mailed reply to questions. “Both for the financial
markets and the global economy.” He said Denmark can draw on
its “considerable currency reserves” to protect its financial
system from shocks.  U.S. Treasury SecretaryJacob J. Lew told Congress last
week that the extraordinary measures being used to avoid
breaching the debt ceiling “will be exhausted no later than
Oct. 17” and the department will have about $30 billion to pay
obligations if Congress fails to reach an agreement to lift the
cap.  ‘Very Seriously’  “We’re taking this very seriously,” Swedish Prime
Minister  Fredrik Reinfeldt   said. “It’s a serious situation
that they can’t reach an agreement and we must track this very
carefully and also raise our preparedness to be able to deal
with this if it continues without a proper solution in place.”  Russia’s central bank considers it “highly unlikely” that
the deadlock in the U.S. will reach a “critical” point,
according to Yudaeva. Russian stocks and the ruble would come
under pressure in the aftermath of a U.S. default, even as the
country’s market has few direct links to the Treasuries market,
Nabiullina said.  “During the past five years, outbursts of volatility for
various reasons have become almost a regular event,” Nabiullina
said. “During that time, Bank Rossii has developed a whole
system of instruments to support liquidity and smooth out
fluctuations, which we can deploy again this time. We are
constantly monitoring the situation to be able to react to it if
necessary.”  Fiscal Deal  House Speaker  John Boehner  will allow a vote on a Senate
agreement to end the government shutdown and extend U.S.
borrowing authority, said Representative  Kevin Brady  of  Texas , a
senior House Republican.  House leaders haven’t decided whether they will vote before
the Senate, said a Republican aide who spoke on conditions of
anonymity. For procedural reasons, if the House goes first, the
bill could reach President  Barack Obama ’s desk more quickly.  Russia hopes U.S. policy makers will show “prudence” in
overcoming the impasse, Nabiullina said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Stockholm at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net ;
Evgenia Pismennaya in Moscow at 
 epismennaya@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  