-- Swiss Re Buys Stake in Li’s FWD in $425 Mln Asia Push
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2013-10-16T09:58:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/swiss-re-buys-stake-in-li-s-fwd-in-425-mln-asia-push.html
Swiss Re Ltd. (SREN) , the world’s second-biggest reinsurer, will invest as much as $425 million in
Richard Li’s FWD Group as it pushes for growth in  Asia .  The company will buy 12.3 percent of FWD from Pacific
Century Group, also owned by Li, a son of Asia’s richest man, as
part of the agreement and invest in the insurer’s expansion
across the continent, Zurich-based Swiss Re said in an e-mailed
statement today. The transaction, expected to close in the first
quarter of next year, reflects “commitment to high growth
markets” in Asia and elsewhere, it said.  Swiss Re is seeking to bolster its primary insurance
business with acquisitions in countries such as China, India and
 Brazil . Pacific Century Group bought  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s life
insurance assets in  Hong Kong , Macau and  Thailand , and the
general insurance and pensions business in Hong Kong, renaming
the operations FWD in August.  “The transaction is a financial investment and proof of a
sound capital base at the group holding level being invested
into the promising Asian life and health growth market,” Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel who recommends
clients buy Swiss Re shares, said in an e-mailed report to
investors. “We expect Swiss Re to report a solid third quarter
2013, further enhancing cash generation and prospects in regard
to the dividend.”  Shares Advance  Swiss Re fell 0.3 percent to 76.6 Swiss francs at 11:42
a.m. in Zurich, valuing the company at 28.4 billion francs
($31.1 billion). The share has risen 16 percent this year.  The stake Swiss Re will finally own in FWD will depend on
the amount of committed capital deployed, the company said.  “FWD is an exciting new regional player which will bring
attractive insurance products to help address the rapidly
growing needs of consumers and significant protection gaps
across Asia,” Swiss Re Chief Executive Officer Michel Lies said
in the statement.  Pacific Century bought the insurance and pension units of
ING last year in a sale that valued the life businesses at 24.3
times estimated 2012 earnings and 1.9 times estimated book value
of 865 million euros, ING said at the time.  “As we look to build FWD for the long-term, Swiss Re’s
commitment to Asia is entirely consistent with our aspirations
to create a leading life insurer across the region,”  Richard Li 
said in an e-mailed statement. “I am excited at the prospects
for FWD to pursue opportunities that the  insurance industry  has
not yet been able to realize.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  