-- U.K. Companies Boost Ad Budgets as Rosy Economic News Aids Sales
-- B y   K r i s t e n   S c h w e i z e r
-- 2013-10-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-k-companies-boost-ad-budgets-as-rosy-economic-news-aids-sales.html
U.K. companies are budgeting more
for marketing than they have in 13 years, according to a survey
by an advertising group, adding to evidence the economy is
getting stronger.  More than 12 percent of companies increased marketing
budgets in the third quarter, up from 7.3 percent in the
previous three months, according to the  Bellwether Report , a
survey of marketing executives by the Institute of Practitioners
in Advertising.  “Marketing spend looks set to rise sharply as companies
boost their budgets to an extent not seen in the 13-year history
of the survey,” said Chris Williamson, who wrote the report on
the answers of about 300 companies’ executives.  The publication -- which didn’t name companies -- adds to
signs that the British economy is strengthening. U.K. jobless
claims fell the most in 16 years last month, and business
surveys suggest the recovery picked up in the third quarter
after growth of 0.7 percent in the three months through June.  “The increased appetite to spend on advertising and
marketing is being fueled by a surge in business optimism, with
firms seeing their financial prospects to be the brightest for
at least eight years,” Williamson said.  French advertising company  Publicis Groupe SA (PUB) , which
reported third-quarter results yesterday, said European sales
posted moderate growth for the first time this year. The U.K.
specifically grew 7.1 percent while southern European continued
to perform “very poorly,” Publicis said.  WPP Plc (WPP) , the world’s largest advertising company, raised
its forecast in August for 2013 sales growth after stronger-than-expected expansion in the U.K. and North America.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Schweizer in London at 
 kschweizer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  