-- U.K. FCA Opens Formal Probe Into Foreign-Exchange Trading
-- B y   S u z i   R i n g
-- 2013-10-16T17:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-k-fca-opens-formal-probe-into-foreign-exchange-trading.html
The U.K. markets regulator opened a
formal investigation of currency-rate trading amid allegations
of manipulation in the $5.3 trillion-a-day market that have
triggered similar probes in the U.S. and Switzerland.  “We are gathering information from a wide range of sources
including market participants,” the Financial Conduct Authority
said in an e-mailed statement today. “Our investigations are at
an early stage and it will be some time before we conclude
whether there has been any misconduct which will lead to
enforcement action.”  Traders at some banks may have pooled information about
their positions through instant messages and used client orders
to move benchmark currency rates, Bloomberg News reported in
June. The FCA said at the time it was reviewing the allegations.  The London-based regulator said it is conducting the probes
“alongside a number of other agencies both in the U.K. and
abroad into a number of firms.”  Authorities are scrutinizing currency traders’ electronic
messages as part of an investigation of potential manipulation
of the market, a person with knowledge of the talks has said.
The FCA is focusing on trading around the so-called WM/Reuters
rates, benchmarks used to value trillions of dollars of
investments, the person said.  Oil, Derivatives  After an investigation into the  London  interbank offered
rate, or Libor, exposed widespread manipulation, regulators
around the world began reviewing whether benchmarks for oil,
derivatives and interest rate swaps were also rigged.  “The FCA opening an investigation into the FX market is an
indication there is some evidence of possible wrongdoing,” said
 Peter Lodder , a barrister at 2 Bedford Row in London. “It
doesn’t sound as widespread as the allegation of Libor-rigging,
but the probe is gaining force with U.S. and Swiss involvement
as well. It may well result in more fines against the banks
involved and individuals being called into question.”  The FCA sent requests for information to four banks,
including Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and New York-based
 Citigroup Inc. (C) , a person with knowledge of the matter who asked
not to be identified said in June. The request doesn’t indicate
any wrongdoing, the person said. Spokesmen at Citigroup and
Deutsche Bank declined to comment.  Instant Messages  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  has handed over records of
instant messages to the FCA after concluding a former currency
trader’s communications with counterparts at other firms may
have been inappropriate, according to two people with knowledge
of the matter.  “We can confirm that we were contacted by the FCA on this
matter,” Sarah Small, head of strategic media relations for
RBS, said. “Our ongoing enquiry into this matter continues and
we are cooperating fully with the FCA and our other regulators.
We can provide no further comment.”  Switzerland’s Financial Market Supervisory Authority and
the country’s competition commission said this month they were
also opening probes into foreign-exchange rates, while the U.S.
Justice Department has opened a criminal investigation into
possible manipulation, a person familiar with the matter said
last week. European Union antitrust regulators said on Oct. 7
they were reviewing the market.  WM/Reuters  WM/Reuters rates are published hourly for 160 currencies
and half-hourly for the 21 most-traded. They are the median of
all trades in a minute-long period starting 30 seconds before
the beginning of each half-hour. Rates for less-widely traded
currencies are based on quotes during a two-minute window.  The WM/Reuters rates are used by fund managers to determine
what they pay for currencies and to compute the day-to-day value
of their holdings, and by index providers such as FTSE Group and
 MSCI Inc. (MSCI)  that track stocks and bonds in multiple countries.
While the rates aren’t followed by most investors, even small
movements can affect the value of what  Morningstar Inc. (MORN) 
estimates is $3.6 trillion in funds including pension and
savings accounts that track global indexes.  The data are collected and distributed by World Markets
Co., a unit of Boston-based  State Street Corp. (STT) , and  Thomson
Reuters  Corp.  Bloomberg LP, the parent company of Bloomberg News,
competes with Thomson Reuters in providing news and information
as well as currency-trading systems.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Suzi Ring in London at 
 sring5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lindsay Fortado at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net  