-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: St. Louis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-st-louis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Eight District--  St. Louis .  EIGHTH DISTRICT - ST. LOUIS  Summary
Economic activity in the Eighth District has grown at a moderate
pace since the previous report. Recent reports of planned
activity in manufacturing and services have been positive.
Reports from contacts in the retail sector have also been
generally positive. Residential as well as commercial and
industrial real estate market conditions have continued to
improve. Total lending at a sample of small and midsized
District banks decreased from mid-June to mid-September.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Reports of plans for manufacturing activity have been positive
since our previous report. Several manufacturing firms reported
plans to add workers, expand operations, or open new facilities
in the Eighth District, while a smaller number of manufacturers
reported plans to reduce employment. Firms in automobile parts,
consumer products, magazine, package, tubular products, coiled
metal springs, machinery, steel, chemical, specialty chemical,
and plastic products manufacturing plan to hire new employees
and expand operations in the Eighth District. In contrast, firms
in pharmaceutical products, shoes, food, and aircraft
manufacturing reported plans to lay off workers in the District.  Reports of planned activity in the District’s service sector
have also been positive since the previous report. Firms in
distribution, logistics, telecommunication, online shopping,
 wealth management , transportation, and veterinarian services
reported new hiring and expansion plans. In contrast, firms in
healthcare services plan to lay off employees. Reports from
contacts in the retail sector have been mostly positive, as
contacts noted a number of major investment projects and
expansions among retail stores and restaurants. In Louisville,
contacts noted that retail stores appear to be performing well
and new restaurants are opening regularly; contacts also
indicate higher traffic at fast food restaurants. In St. Louis,
contacts noted high foot traffic and sales at two new outlet
malls.  Real Estate and Construction  Home sales have continued to increase throughout most of the
Eighth District on a year-over-year basis. Compared with the
same period in 2012, August 2013 year-to-date home sales were up
17 percent in Louisville, 19 percent in  Little Rock , 10 percent
in  Memphis , and 8 percent in St. Louis. August 2013 year-to-date
single-family housing permits increased in the majority of the
District metro areas compared with the same period in 2012.
Permits increased 8.2 percent in Louisville, 21 percent in
Memphis, and 17 percent in St. Louis, but decreased 5 percent in
Little Rock.  Commercial and industrial real estate market conditions have
continued to improve throughout most of the District. Contacts
in Little Rock reported decreased office vacancy rates and
increased asking rents. A contact in St. Louis noted a rebound
in the industrial real estate market, while a contact in Memphis
reported a strengthened industrial real estate market. A contact
in northwest  Kentucky  reported that commercial real estate
activity is expected to increase by the end of 2013, while the
industrial vacancy rate is expected to decline. Commercial and
industrial construction activity also continued to improve
throughout most of the District. A contact in central Kentucky
noted increased commercial construction in Hardin County. A
contact in northeast  Arkansas  reported that commercial
development continued to be strong in northeast Jonesboro.
Contacts in St. Louis reported plans for expansion of a
manufacturing factory in southwest  Missouri  and industrial
development in north St. Louis.  Banking and Finance  Total loans outstanding at a sample of small and midsized
District banks decreased 1.1 percent from mid-June to mid-September. Real estate lending, which accounts for 72.9 percent
of total loans, decreased 0.9 percent. Commercial and industrial
loans, accounting for 15.7 percent of total loans, remained
largely unchanged. Loans to individuals, accounting for 5
percent of total loans, increased 4.6 percent. All other loans,
accounting for 6.4 percent of total loans, decreased 9.6
percent. During this period, total deposits at these banks
remained largely unchanged.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Crop conditions across the District remained relatively
unchanged from our previous report. On average, 89 percent of
the District states’ corn, cotton, sorghum, and soybean crops
were rated in fair or better condition. Similarly, about 80
percent of the District states’ pastureland was rated in fair or
better condition. Harvest progress in the District lagged behind
the 5-year average for all five major crops. The District corn,
cotton, and rice harvests were 19 percent, 14 percent, and 18
percent behind their five-year averages, respectively. The
District sorghum and soybean crops fared slightly better at 9
percent and 8 percent behind their five-year averages,
respectively. Year-to-date coal production in the District for
August was about 3 percent higher compared with the same period
in 2012. In contrast, coal production for August 2013 was about
1 percent lower than in August 2012.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 