-- U.S. Bancorp Profit Little Changed on Lower Bad Loan Provisions
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k
-- 2013-10-16T11:08:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-bancorp-profit-little-changed-on-lower-bad-loan-provisions.html
U.S. Bancorp, the nation’s biggest
regional lender, said third-quarter net income was little
changed as revenue fell and the bank set aside less for bad
loans.  Profit was $1.47 billion, or 76 cents a share, compared to
$1.47 billion, or 74 cents, a year earlier, the Minneapolis-based bank said today in a statement. The  average estimate  of 34
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for earnings of 76 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Davis told investors at a
conference last month that the company was having a “very good
quarter” amid loan growth from the previous three-month period.
The company is also focusing on bolstering fees from businesses
including wealth management and trust.  The results “reflected our continuing ability to manage
through the current uncertain and slow-growing economy,” Davis,
55, said in today’s statement.  A jump in the 10-year Treasury yield last quarter prompted
a decline in mortgage revenues at the biggest U.S. banks as
fewer borrowers refinanced loans.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the
largest U.S. lender, said last week that mortgage fees and
related revenue plunged 65 percent to $839 million in the third
quarter. Mortgage banking revenue at  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  declined
43 percent to $1.61 billion, the San Francisco-based lender
said.  U.S. Bancorp Chief Financial Officer Andrew Cecere said
last month mortgage applications would fall 40 percent in the
third quarter, mortgage production would decline 20 percent and
mortgage revenue would drop 20 percent.  The size of U.S. Bancorp is “perfect,” Davis said at the
Sept. 12 investor conference. The lender isn’t looking to
acquire another large bank and would rather “double down” on
existing businesses, he said.  U.S. Bancorp gained 15 percent this year through yesterday,
trailing the 24 percent advance of the 24-company KBW Bank
Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net ;
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  