-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Chicago District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-chicago-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Seventh District--  Chicago .  SEVENTH DISTRICT - CHICAGO  Summary  The rate of growth in economic activity in the Seventh District
slowed a bit in September. Contacts remained generally
optimistic, but several expressed concern about the potential
impact of a protracted federal government shutdown. Growth in
consumer and business spending was modest. Manufacturing
production and construction continued to grow at a moderate
pace. Credit conditions changed little on balance. Cost and wage
pressures remained mild. Corn and soybean yields were higher
than expected, contributing to lower crop prices.  Consumer spending  Consumer spending grew modestly in September, falling short of
retailers’ expectations. Auto sales increased at a slower pace,
but dealers noted continued strength in demand for used vehicles
and in the fuel-efficient passenger car and light truck
segments. Non-auto retailers reported that back-to-school
spending was less than last year. However, sales of electronics
and home-related items such as furniture, appliances, building
materials, and gardening supplies remained stronger. Retailers
expected holiday season spending to be similar to last year.  Business spending  Growth in business spending flattened out in September.
Inventories remained at comfortable levels according to most
retailers and manufacturers. However, a few noted low
inventories of used vehicles and at steel service centers.
Growth in capital spending slowed slightly, though contacts
reported an increase in productivity-enhancing investments to
structures, equipment, and information technology as well as
workforce training. The pace of hiring edged lower.
Manufacturing contacts noted layoffs in several mining-related
industries, and reported cutting back on overtime. Retailers
indicated that seasonal hiring plans were about the same as last
year, and a staffing agency reported a slight reduction in
billable hours. In contrast, contacts continued to report plans
to increase employment over the remainder of the year. Demand
remained strong for skilled and experienced workers, with many
such positions still difficult to fill. Several manufacturing
contacts also noted difficulty in finding and retaining entry-level workers.  Construction/real estate  Construction and real estate activity continued to increase in
September. Demand for residential construction grew moderately,
with single-family homebuilding increasing at a steady pace and
multifamily construction softening somewhat. Many contacts
worried that higher interest rates could lead builders to cut
back on new development projects. Sales of new homes continued
to increase as inventories remained low, although growth was not
as strong as in previous months. Real estate contacts noted that
increasing competition for listings among brokers had pushed
commission rates lower. Nonresidential construction grew
modestly, as contacts noted an improvement in the outlook for
industrial building. Commercial real estate activity continued
to expand, although vacancy rates, particularly in the retail
sector, remained elevated.  Manufacturing  Growth in manufacturing production decreased slightly in
September. The auto and aerospace industries were again a source
of strength for District manufacturing. Steel production and
capacity utilization were steady, with an increase in domestic
demand for steel primarily met by a rise in imports. Specialty
metal manufacturers reported lower shipments, but remained
optimistic for the fourth quarter as order books filled. Demand
for heavy equipment continued to be soft, although orders picked
up some. Contacts also cited an improving outlook for the
industry, driven by an expected recovery in export demand and
domestic construction. Manufacturers of construction materials
and household appliances experienced a slight decline in demand,
but remained optimistic about the recovery in the housing
market. Manufacturing contacts, in general, remained cautiously
optimistic for the remainder of this year and 2014, but several
expressed concern about the confidence of their customers amid
the federal government shutdown.  Banking/finance  Credit conditions changed little on balance over the reporting
period. Financial market participants noted an increase in
market volatility with heightened uncertainty surrounding recent
monetary and fiscal policy actions. Banking contacts again noted
competitive pressures for commercial and industrial loans, with
narrowing spreads and easing standards. Some also expressed
concern about the potential deterioration of underwriting
standards for these loans. In addition, several contacts cited a
modest increase in demand for commercial real estate lending.
Consumer loan demand was steady, with a decrease in mortgage
lending and an increase in auto lending. Purchase and refinance
mortgage activity declined with contacts citing higher interest
rates, although increasing home prices led to a modest increase
in home-equity lending.  Prices/costs  Cost pressures changed little in September. Overall, commodity
prices were down slightly. Prices for metals such as steel,
copper, and aluminum edged lower. In contrast, contacts reported
increases in prices for building materials such as asphalt and
concrete as well as for some energy prices. Retailers again
noted a slight increase in wholesale prices, although few were
able to pass them along to their customers. Wage pressures
remained mild, while non-wage labor costs increased. A number of
contacts voiced concern about the uncertainty surrounding future
employer and employee healthcare costs. In addition, several
reported changing their health insurance enrollment periods this
year in order to match the deadlines of the Affordable Care Act.  Agriculture  Although this year’s drought affected the harvest, corn and
soybean yields in parts of the District were higher than
expected in September. In fact, a contact reported that the
local harvest would be the best in four years. Soybean yields
were more variable than and not as favorable as corn yields. In
the areas affected by drought, subsoil moisture and genetic
advances in seeds reduced yield losses. Rains in September
slowed harvesting, even damaging some crops that were mature.
Crops harvested and sold early brought a premium due to low crop
stocks prior to harvest. Since then, corn prices have dropped
relatively more than soybean prices. With much of the harvest
still unsold, farmers will store more of the crop in the hope of
better selling opportunities over the winter. Milk and cattle
prices increased from the previous reporting period, while hog
prices decreased. Livestock producers continued to benefit from
lower feed costs. Fruit crops bounced back strongly from last
year’s devastating freeze, leading to lower prices.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 