-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Boston District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-boston-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s First District--  Boston .  FIRST DISTRICT - BOSTON  Reports from business contacts indicate the First District
economy continues to grow, at a pace that varies depending on
sector. Most retailers and manufacturers report moderate
increases in revenue, while consulting and advertising contacts
cite robust growth. Residential and commercial real estate
markets continue to improve. Aside from consulting, most firms
are doing little to no hiring, or hiring only for replacement.
Prices are largely unchanged. Firms doing business with the
government have been affected by the sequester; other firms are
also concerned about potential effects of the government
shutdown on consumer demand or broader economic effects of
hitting the debt ceiling.  Retail and Tourism  The retail contacts reporting for this round cite September
year-over-year comp store sales ranging from a 2 percent
decrease to increases in the upper single digits. Consumer
demand remains strong for apparel, home improvement items, home
furnishings, and sporting goods, with online sales accounting
for an increasing fraction of total sales. Inventories are said
to be in good shape and prices remain steady. Contacts say that
while consumer sentiment seems to have improved over the summer
months through mid-September--which they attribute in part to
more positive trends in the housing market-the recent decline in
the stock market and federal government shutdown may damp
consumer spending. Respondents note uncertainty about the
underlying strength of the economic recovery.  Domestic and international leisure travel and corporate business
travel and entertaining are quite strong. Hotel occupancy rates
in Boston and Cambridge reached a nine-year high in August, with
average room rates the highest in a decade. However, if the
federal government shutdown lasts more than ten days, it could
curtail some leisure travel, as domestic leisure travelers seem
to operate within a 10-day booking window. October is New
England’s busiest month of the year for travel, so such a
curtailment now could be particularly significant for businesses
throughout the region that rely on tourism.  Manufacturing and Related Services  Of 11 manufacturing firms contacted this cycle, only one, a
frozen food producer, reports falling sales. Among firms
reporting higher sales, those in the medical and technology
areas with blockbuster products report double-digit sales
growth, more or less independently of the state of the economy.
The rest of the firms generally report year-on-year sales growth
in low single digits and, for such firms, small changes are very
significant. For example, a diversified firm in the building
equipment and aerospace industries reports sales growth of only
3 percent when they expected 4 percent; as a result, the firm
has imposed serious restrictions on hiring and, in some areas,
substantial layoffs, as the firm attempts to meet earnings
targets through cost containment.  On the global front,  China  has reportedly stabilized, but
several contacts mention that other  emerging markets  declined,
pointing in particular to Brazil and  India . Indeed, a contact at
a manufacturer of computer storage devices describes the two
countries as “disasters.” Interestingly, the devaluation of the
Indian currency was good for this firm’s income statement
because, due to outsourcing, their costs in India exceed their
revenues; nonetheless, the contact views the turmoil in India as
worrisome news. A firm in the semiconductor industry reports
that an unusually long down-cycle in sales appears to have come
to an end and that sales have returned to their historic peak,
achieved in 2010.  Eight of the 11 contacts say they are keeping employment steady
and hiring only for replacement or for key needs. Of the
remaining three, one plans to consolidate two business lines and
cut headquarters staff, including some highly paid executives.
The other two, a drug manufacturer and a computer storage firm,
are hiring significantly and roughly in line with their sales
growth.  Only one contact, a firm in the semiconductor equipment
business, reports revising investment plans down recently. The
rest are holding steady or accelerating their plans. In
particular, the firm planning layoffs is at the same time
“investing for the long run,” albeit mostly in Asia.  The outlook ranges from fair to very good. One contact in
publishing expects slow growth for at least the next 12 to 18
months. Another contact said he was, “increasingly nervous that
there is another little slowdown here.” But many other contacts
are quite optimistic, including a firm that had disappointing
results in 2013, where the contact expects 2014 to be better.  Selected Business Services  Consulting and advertising contacts report a strong third
quarter, consistent with a sustainably, but not rapidly, growing
economy. Healthcare consultants cite the strongest results, as
the double-digit revenue growth of the past few years continues.
Demand for healthcare consulting services is driven by increased
merger and acquisition activity among providers, adoption of new
technology, compliance with new regulations, and the need for
organizational change due to structural shifts in the healthcare
industry. Demand for economic consulting remains strong, and
strategy consultants report that “the economy is slowly picking
up steam.” Marketing contacts estimate industry-wide growth of 6
percent to 7 percent, driven by large corporate orders and a
shift in demand towards higher-value items as companies have
more to spend on marketing and branding. By contrast, a
government consultant reports a slight drop in revenues and a
smaller backlog as the sequester continues to reduce agencies’
ability to purchase services.  Most firms’ annual salary adjustments range from 2 percent to 4
percent. A majority of contacts report minimal increases in
health insurance costs; however, two cite troublingly large
increases. Firms’ own rate increases are about 3 percent to 5
percent. Economic and healthcare consulting firms have been
increasing employment 10 percent to 15 percent on an annual
basis, strategy consultants closer to 5 percent, while marketing
and government consultants report little to no hiring.  Contacts expect growth to continue at or moderately above its
current level as long as the economy is not hit with a shock.
Other than the government contractor, contacts are not worried
about the sequester or European uncertainty, and several note
that European risk has been “priced in” or forgotten about.
Several are very concerned, however, about the potential for a
debt ceiling-induced financial crisis.  Commercial Real Estate  Reports from First District contacts describe the region’s
commercial real estate markets as either stable or
strengthening. A Boston contact cites improvement in leasing
fundamentals in recent weeks across diverse sectors--including
office and assisted living facilities--while investment sales
demand is up from an already-strong pace. Redevelopment activity
picked up in Boston’s retail sector, with plans for filling and
retooling vacant space in both urban and suburban locations.
Another Boston contact says office leasing activity is roughly
unchanged since the last report, with strong demand in the
Seaport and Kendall Square areas and comparatively weak demand
for locations in the Financial District. Build-to-suit office
construction continues in prime neighborhoods but otherwise
office construction is negligible in metro Boston. A Portland
contact notes significant improvements in leasing fundamentals
and investment demand in recent months. In Hartford, the sale of
two large office building in recent months has resulted in a
significant decline in the office vacancy rate for class A
space, from upwards of 25 percent to roughly 17 percent, a
decline that should lead to some firming of rents after a long
period of stagnation. Also in Hartford, investor demand for
prime office and multifamily properties stayed strong. A
Providence contact is mostly upbeat, citing a modest uptick in
leasing activity in recent weeks and some positive absorption of
downtown office space. While leasing volume increased across the
region, contacts note that most leasing deals consist of
renewals-in-place or relocations of existing firms, with little
to no net expansion of firms’ footprints.  In Boston, local conditions lead contacts to expect more slow-to-modest growth in the commercial real estate sector moving
forward, but national economic and political conditions lend
uncertainty and downside risks to the outlook. In both Rhode
Island and  Connecticut , contacts are cautiously optimistic that
commercial leasing fundamentals will continue to improve, but
note that their respective states face persistent challenges to
economic growth, leaving their overall prospects weaker than the
U.S. average. A Portland contact is mostly optimistic that
southern Maine will continue to see modest growth in leasing
fundamentals, but expects investment sales to slow with rising
interest rates.  Residential Real Estate  Residential real estate contacts in the First District say
markets continue to strengthen and they are “cautiously
optimistic” about the outlook. According to a source in New
Hampshire, realtors are no longer talking about returning to a
“non-recession” market, but rather stating that market
conditions have returned to normal. August saw sales of single-family homes and condominiums continuing to increase across the
region compared to August 2012. Market participants, however,
are watching interest rates closely. Where current market
activity is largely driven by first time home buyers - such as
in  Maine  and Connecticut - higher interest rates could slow
sales. In other states, rising interest rates may be temporarily
spurring activity as buyers attempt to lock in lower rates. With
the exception of one state which saw condo prices fall, median
prices for single-family homes and condominiums rose in August
relative to last year. Inventory trends vary across the states,
with  Massachusetts  seeing inventory for single-family homes and
condos low compared to historic norms - making it a sellers’
market - while inventory in Maine increased in August compared
to a year ago and New Hampshire sources indicate there “appears
to be more balance between buyers and sellers.”  While First District realtors say that this has been a
turnaround year, they fear economic shocks could still stall the
recovery. In addition, respondents express concern about
negative effects on housing markets of the Biggert-Waters Flood
Insurance Reform Act of 2012; they say that lack of affordable
flood insurance may cause values to fall and buyer delays in
newly redrawn flood zones.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 