-- U.S. Federal Reserve Oct. Beige Book Summary (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-oct-beige-book-summary-text-.html
The following is the summary text of
the  Federal Reserve  Board’s Summary of Commentary.  SUMMARY*  Reports from the twelve Federal Reserve Districts suggest that
national economic activity continued to expand at a modest to
moderate pace during the reporting period of September through
early October. Eight Districts reported similar growth rates in
economic activity as during the previous reporting period, while
growth slowed some in the Philadelphia, Richmond,  Chicago , and
 Kansas City  Districts. Contacts across Districts generally
remained cautiously optimistic in their outlook for future
economic activity, although many also noted an increase in
uncertainty due largely to the federal government shutdown and
debt ceiling debate.  Consumer spending continued to increase and activity in the
travel and tourism sector expanded in most Districts. Business
spending and payrolls grew in many Districts. Demand for
nonfinancial services rose, and manufacturing activity also
expanded modestly. Residential construction continued to
increase at a moderate pace. By comparison, nonresidential
construction again expanded at a slower rate. Residential and
commercial real estate activity varied across Districts, but
largely continued to improve. Financial conditions were little
changed on balance, with lending activity remaining modest in
most Districts. There were mixed reports on agriculture, with
excess precipitation and drought both impacting the sector.
Energy and mining activity expanded or maintained high levels,
with the exception of the coal industry in the eastern half of
the nation. Price and wage pressures were again limited.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Consumer spending  grew modestly in most Districts. Auto sales
continued to be strong, particularly in the  New York  District
where they were said to be increasingly robust. In contrast,
Chicago, Kansas City, and  Dallas  indicated slower growth in auto
sales in September. Growth in retail sales was steady in most of
the Districts, but picked up some in  Cleveland  and Richmond and
slowed in Chicago, Kansas City, and Dallas. Contacts in Chicago
and Atlanta noted that back-to-school spending was lower than a
year ago. However, retailers generally remained optimistic about
the  holiday shopping season , with contacts in Philadelphia and
Chicago expecting this year’s holiday sales to be about equal to
last year’s despite the traditional holiday period being six
days shorter this year. In addition, Dallas noted strength in
retail imports in advance of the holiday season, with growth
stronger than a year ago.  * Prepared at the Federal  Reserve Bank  of Chicago and based on
information collected on or before October 7, 2013. This
document summarizes comments received from business and other
contacts outside the Federal Reserve and is not a commentary on
the views of Federal Reserve officials.  Activity in the travel and tourism sector also expanded in most
areas, with the reports from the Atlanta,  Boston , and New York
Districts being particularly upbeat. Dallas indicated that
airline passenger demand slowed seasonally, but was slightly
stronger than year-ago levels. Tourism contacts in the Boston
District were concerned about the potential impact of a
protracted federal government shutdown; and Richmond noted that
the shutdown had led to the closing of some tourist attractions,
although hotel contacts indicated that these closures did not
result in guest cancellations. In addition, Kansas City noted
lower tourism activity due in part to the severe effects of
recent flooding in  Colorado .  Business Spending and Hiring  Business spending grew modestly in most Districts. Overall,
inventory investment proceeded at a moderate rate. Retail
inventories were said to be in-line with sales in the Boston,
Cleveland, Chicago, and Dallas Districts. Philadelphia and
Cleveland reported that inventories were on the low side at auto
dealers, and Chicago noted the same was true at steel service
centers. Philadelphia reported an increase in manufacturers’
demand for equipment, while manufacturers in Cleveland and
Chicago indicated that current capital outlays were primarily
for productivity enhancing investments. Cleveland noted that low
natural gas prices and regulatory uncertainty were slowing the
build-out of shale-gas transport and processing infrastructure.
In contrast, additional infrastructure projects to support
natural resource extraction were mentioned in the Richmond,
 Minneapolis , and Kansas City Districts. Philadelphia and Chicago
reported an increase in spending on information technology.
Looking ahead, several Districts noted an improvement in  capital
spending  plans. Manufacturers in Philadelphia and  St. Louis ,
high-tech service firms in Kansas City, and retailers in the
Cleveland and St. Louis Districts expected to increase capital
spending in the months ahead. Technology contacts in San
Francisco relayed expectations for a near-term pick-up in
spending on both hardware and software products. In addition,
Philadelphia and Minneapolis reported slight increases in
activity at architecture firms.  Employment growth remained modest in September. Several
Districts reported that contacts were cautious to expand
payrolls, citing uncertainty surrounding the implementation of
the Affordable Care Act and fiscal policy more generally.
Cleveland and Dallas noted that retail hiring was primarily
limited to staffing of new stores in their Districts, while
contacts in Philadelphia, Cleveland, and Chicago reported that
hiring for the holiday season would be about the same as last
year. In manufacturing, Boston indicated that hiring primarily
was for replacement or to fill key needs, New York noted slower
job growth, and Chicago reported that manufacturers were cutting
back on overtime. Dallas cited scattered reports of hiring in
high-tech, fabricated metals, and food manufacturing.
Furthermore, demand for skilled labor remained high in many
Districts. Examples included technology, healthcare, and
engineering occupations in Richmond, economic and health
consulting in Boston, legal and compliance positions in the
financial services industry in New York, and accountants and
financial analysts in the Dallas District.  Nonfinancial Services  Demand for nonfinancial services increased modestly from the
prior reporting period. Boston reported robust growth in
consulting, but noted that activity at a government consulting
firm remained weaker due to the effects of sequestration. The
Minneapolis District reported increased activity in professional
business services, whereas demand was more mixed in the Dallas
District with strength in accounting services and a modest
decrease in legal services. Demand for staffing services
increased in the New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, and
Minneapolis Districts, with New York citing strong demand for
 information technology  occupations and Cleveland highlighting
healthcare and manufacturing. In contrast, staffing service
activity was down slightly in the Chicago and Dallas Districts.
Demand for technology services increased in the Kansas City and
San Francisco Districts, but San Francisco indicated that
overall demand for nonfinancial services was mixed with
healthcare services somewhat weak. Demand for transportation
services increased on balance. Port activity remained robust in
the Richmond and Atlanta Districts, reflecting exports of grain,
auto parts, and forest products and imports of energy products
and steel. Atlanta, Kansas City and Dallas cited a modest rise
in demand for transportation services. Cleveland reported that
the rate of growth in shipping freight volume had slowed
recently, and demand for trucking services softened slightly in
the Richmond District.  Manufacturing  Overall, manufacturing activity expanded modestly in September,
but with some notable exceptions among the Districts. Cleveland,
St. Louis, and Minneapolis experienced faster growth, while New
York, Richmond, and Chicago saw growth weaken. The automotive
and aerospace industries continued to be a source of strength in
a number of Districts. Demand for fabricated metals was mixed in
the Chicago and Richmond Districts, but stronger in the Dallas
District. Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, and San Francisco
reported steady increases in the demand for steel; Cleveland,
Chicago, and Atlanta indicated that much of the higher demand
was being met by imports. Demand for construction materials
remained strong for Philadelphia, increased for Cleveland and
San Francisco, was flat for Dallas, and was slightly lower for
the Chicago District. Cleveland and Dallas reported strong
demand for manufactured inputs to energy production, and demand
for heavy equipment improved slightly in the Richmond and
Chicago Districts. High-tech manufacturing activity edged up in
a number of Districts, with Boston and Dallas reporting slightly
higher demand for semiconductors, and biotech manufacturing
increasing in San Francisco. While there was little immediate
disruption from the federal government shutdown, contacts were
worried about the potential impact if the closing became
prolonged.  Construction and Real Estate  Construction and real estate activity continued to improve in
September. Residential construction increased moderately on
balance, growing at a stronger pace in the Minneapolis and
Dallas Districts but only slightly in Richmond and Philadelphia.
Multifamily construction remained stronger than single-family
construction in a number of Districts. Residential real estate
activity continued to improve at a moderate pace in most
Districts, as home sales and prices continued to rise and
inventories remained low. Home sales in the New York and Dallas
Districts were strong, with the exception of the Jersey Shore,
which is still recovering from  Hurricane Sandy . The
Philadelphia, Atlanta, and Chicago Districts experienced a more
modest improvement in home sales. A number of Districts reported
concerns from homebuilders and realtors over rising  mortgage
rates . However, contacts in the Dallas District indicated that
rising interest rates were not hurting affordability and
contacts in the Boston District suggested some boost to activity
by homebuyers entering the market in anticipation of future
increases in rates. Nonresidential construction activity
remained modest, but varied by market and District. Growth was
strong in the Minneapolis District, but up only slightly in
Richmond, Atlanta, and Philadelphia. The Cleveland, Chicago, and
St. Louis Districts reported increased activity for industrial
building, Cleveland noted strong demand from the healthcare
sector, and redevelopment of vacant retail space picked up in
Boston. Leasing activity continued to improve modestly in most
Districts, but was particularly strong in the Dallas District. A
number of Districts reported that vacancy rates continued to
fall, rents rose, and the outlook for commercial real estate was
generally positive.  Banking and Finance  Financial conditions were little changed on balance from the
prior reporting period. Overall loan growth remained modest in
most Districts. Consumer loan demand weakened slightly. Reports
on mortgage lending were mixed. Several Districts noted a
decrease in mortgage lending, citing higher mortgage rates and
reduced refinancing activity. However, mortgage originations
continued to rise in Philadelphia, Richmond, and Dallas, and
rising home prices led to an increase in home equity lending in
Philadelphia, Chicago, and San Francisco. Chicago, Cleveland,
and Atlanta noted an increase in auto lending, while credit card
volumes decreased slightly in Philadelphia. Business loan demand
edged higher, with several Districts noting a pick-up in both
commercial and industrial and commercial real estate lending.
The Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, and Dallas
Districts reported intense competition on pricing and terms for
commercial and industrial loans. In addition, contacts in
Philadelphia and Chicago expressed concern about an easing of
credit standards on these loans. Overall, however, lending
standards were largely unchanged and  credit quality  continued to
improve moderately.  Agriculture and Natural Resources  Heavy rains hurt agriculture in the Richmond, Atlanta, and
Kansas City Districts, even resulting in declarations of some
natural disaster areas. At the other extreme, some portions of
the Chicago, Minneapolis, and Dallas Districts experienced
drought conditions, although they eased in some areas over the
reporting period. Harvests were reported as behind their normal
pace. Nonetheless, crop yields were higher than expected in the
Chicago District and about average in the Kansas City District.
Strong fruit output was noted in the Richmond, Chicago, and
Minneapolis Districts. Cotton output was mixed across the South.
Prices fell for corn, soybeans, wheat, hay, cotton, hogs,
broilers, turkeys, and eggs, but rose for rice, citrus, grapes,
milk, cattle, and dry beans. Livestock producers benefited from
lower feed costs, as well as higher beef exports according to
the Dallas District. San Francisco reported demand remained
strong for most crop and livestock products.  Natural resource extraction increased in September. Oil and
natural gas activity remained at high levels in the Cleveland
and Dallas Districts, was solid in the Kansas City District, and
expanded in the Richmond and Minneapolis Districts. Drilling rig
counts were stable in the Richmond and Kansas City Districts,
although the latter reported a shift in rigs from oil drilling
toward natural gas. This shift was driven in part by
expectations of higher natural  gas prices  and lower  oil prices 
in the future. Atlanta and Dallas noted steady demand for
energy. San Francisco indicated that demand for oil products
edged up, resulting in increased refinery activity. Refinery
expansions continued in the Atlanta District, although the cost
of transporting inputs to Gulf Coast refineries rose. Mining
activity picked up in the Minneapolis District. Coal production
in the Cleveland and Richmond Districts slowed, but output was
higher in St. Louis and Kansas City.  Prices and Wages  Price pressures remained limited in September. Most Districts
reported only slight increases in commodity prices and limited
ability to pass through these increases to their customers.
Metal prices fell slightly in the Chicago District, but held
steady in Minneapolis and were up slightly in Dallas. The
Chicago, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco Districts
reported upward pressure on prices for building vii materials
such as asphalt, brick, lumber, and concrete, with Kansas City
indicating that concrete was in short supply in the Colorado
areas affected by flooding. Energy prices in most Districts were
steady to slightly lower than during the prior reporting period.
In general, prices for final goods were little changed, except
for a faster increase in retail prices in the Richmond District
and higher food prices in the Kansas City and Dallas Districts.
Wage pressures remained modest overall, though the Minneapolis
and Richmond Districts reported moderate wage increases. Most
Districts reported continued upward wage pressure for skilled
workers, particularly those in consulting, accounting,
information technology, engineering, and skilled manufacturing
and construction trades.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 