-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Atlanta District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-atlanta-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Sixth District-- Atlanta.  SIXTH DISTRICT - ATLANTA  Summary  Sixth District business contacts described economic activity as
expanding slowly in September. The outlook among firms remains
optimistic as most expect near-term growth to be sustained at or
slightly above current levels.  Most retailers cited slightly improved levels of spending and
auto dealers continued to experience solid results. Hospitality
reports remained largely positive. Residential brokers and
builders continued to witness improvements in many parts of the
District as sales and prices of new and existing homes increased
compared with a year ago. Commercial development picked up
slightly, led by multifamily construction. Manufacturers
indicated that new orders and production had increased since the
last report. Bankers saw increased volumes for both commercial
and consumer loans. Payrolls across the region expanded, albeit
at a slower pace than the previous report. Firms noted input
costs remained stable.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  District retailers continued to report modest spending as
consumers remained focused on finding deals. Back-to-school
retailers and fast-food establishments cited that sales were
slightly lower than a year ago; however, District auto dealers
reported continued gains in light vehicle sales. On average,
merchants indicated that sales and store traffic were slightly
up for the year and are expecting this trend to carry on for the
remainder of the year.  The travel and tourism sector continued to cite healthy demand
in leisure travel as hotel bookings, revenue per available room,
and attendance at conventions and attractions all increased.
Contacts confirmed a slight increase in hiring, as well as a
healthy supply of qualified applicants. However, government cut
backs and softening demand from Europe and  China  were sources of
concern for many hospitality firms. Overall, the industry is
anticipating the same pace of growth for the rest of the year
and into the beginning of 2014 based on reports of advanced
bookings.  Real Estate and Construction  Overall, District brokers indicated that existing home sales
remained ahead of last year’s level. In particular, home sales
growth continued to improve among  Florida  brokers while brokers
outside of Florida noticed that sales growth remained positive
but slowed notably on a year-over-year basis. Brokers also noted
a larger than usual seasonal slowdown in buyer traffic. By most
accounts, inventory levels continued to decline on a year-over-year basis and home prices continued to rise. The outlook for
sales remains slightly positive with half of brokers
anticipating sales gains over the next several months.  District homebuilders said that new home sales and construction
were ahead of year earlier levels. However, reports indicated
new home sales softened in recent months. Most builders saw
modest home price appreciation since the last report. The
outlook for new home sales and construction was positive, but
the outlook for growth moderated from earlier in the year.  District commercial brokers noted that demand for space improved
at a modest pace towards the end of the summer. Construction
activity was described as flat to slightly up on a year-over-year basis with apartment development dominating activity.
Contractors noted that government related construction slowed
while light manufacturing related construction picked up.
Brokers indicated that most markets still favored tenants;
however, rental rate increases continued to be noted in select
submarkets. The outlook among District commercial real estate
contacts remained positive with further improvements expected
for the rest of the year.  Manufacturing and Transportation  Most District manufacturers reported that the pace of growth
remained flat or rose slightly in September. New orders,
production, finished inventories, commodity prices, and hiring
all increased since the previous period while supply delivery
times experienced a modest decrease. Auto manufacturers in
particular continued to describe solid demand for their
products. When asked about their outlook, one-third of regional
purchasing managers expect higher production over the next three
to six months.  Regional trucking contacts reported recent increases in tonnage,
primarily because of shipments related to housing, autos, and
energy. However, truckload and less-than-truckload volumes were
described as mostly flat for the year. District ports continued
to cite increased activity in the movement of energy products
and steel imports, along with an uptick in exports of forestry
products, such as wood pellets and resins. Containerized freight
growth was seen as mostly even for the year. Regional railroad
firms reported significant year-to-date declines in the shipment
of agricultural products and military equipment; however,
substantial increases in the movement of chemicals and
nonferrous scrap metals have offset those declines.  Banking and Finance  Bankers voiced concern over interest rate risk as they noticed
that their competitors were more willing to extend credit and in
some cases were aggressively seeking qualified borrowers.
According to some contacts, banks seemed to be luring loan
business mostly away from each other, rather than creating new
opportunities.  District bankers reported increased activity in owner-occupied
commercial real estate, commercial and industrial,
manufacturing, small business, and healthcare lending. Consumer
loan volume, including purchase/construction mortgages, second
mortgages, auto loans, and even credit cards, was strong in some
regions. However, mortgage lending overall had slowed as
interest rates increased and the refinancing boom subsided. Some
contacts mentioned residential real estate lending was now about
evenly split between refinancing and new mortgages.  Employment and Prices  Since the last report, the District’s overall pace of payroll
growth slowed somewhat. In July,  Georgia  and Florida saw payroll
gains greater than the District’s monthly average for the year,
but August’s sizeable contractions in payrolls in those states
brought the pace closer to the monthly average. Louisiana saw
strong gains in leisure and hospitality employment, particularly
in accommodation and food services. The District’s rate of
unemployment remained unchanged and slightly higher than the
national average. Employers continued to report hiring hesitancy
related to changes in healthcare regulation and fiscal policy
uncertainty.  Input costs remained largely stable, according to business
contacts. The few input costs that were cited as rising were
doing so very slowly. According to our September Business
Inflation Expectations survey, increases in unit costs remained
in the range of 1.3 to 1.7 percent over the past year. Looking
forward, businesses expect unit costs to rise by 1.9 percent, on
average, over the next 12-months. There were few reports of
pricing power and margins remained tight. Wages remained in a
range that met expectations of most firms, but some noted upward
wage pressures for certain high-skilled workers.  Natural Resources and Agriculture  Energy refiners across the region have been in the throes of
expansion as new projects and investments continue to be
announced. Contacts reported that demand and inventories of oil
and natural gas remained steady. Additionally, transportation of
these natural resources to the Gulf Coast for refinement and
processing was increasingly occurring via barges and trucks
rather than pipeline and rail since those networks are under
construction. Contacts indicated that this method of
transportation was driving up costs.  As a result of this year’s excessive rain and flooding, which
heavily damaged some crops, the USDA declared most counties in
 Alabama  and many in Georgia, Florida, and  Tennessee  as natural
disaster areas. Since the last report, average monthly prices
paid to farmers for corn, cotton, soybeans, hogs, and broilers
were down but were up for rice, citrus, beef, and milk. Lower
corn prices benefitted livestock producers that rely on corn for
feed. Compared to August, cotton estimates for September
indicated reduced production in Florida,  Mississippi , and
Tennessee; higher production in Alabama and Louisiana; and
unchanged production in Georgia.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 