-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Richmond District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-richmond-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fifth District-- Richmond.  FIFTH DISTRICT - RICHMOND  Overview  District economic conditions improved modestly, on balance,
since our last report. Manufacturing shipments and new orders
softened, with only a few producers reporting strength. Retail
revenues were flat to modestly higher, and auto sales improved
year over year, although a few dealers reported recent
flattening. Conditions were mixed at non-retail services firms,
with some slowing in tourism. Lending activity increased
slightly, and competition for quality loans was intense.
Residential real estate sales improved, except for higher end
homes, and there were some reports of new home construction.
Commercial leasing varied by location and new construction was
limited, except for multi-family housing. While excessive summer
rain may reduce some crops, peanut yields were bountiful.
Natural gas production rose and expansion was expected to
continue; in contrast, coal mining declined further. Labor
markets grew slowly, despite difficulty finding skilled workers.
Average wages rose at a faster pace across the board. Prices
grew more quickly in the service sector and at manufacturing
firms.  Manufacturing  Manufacturing generally weakened since our last report.
Shipments dropped for most products, and manufacturers said that
both military and civilian orders were down. Although
manufacturers of metals, pulp, paper, and chemicals indicated an
increase in shipments in recent weeks, their new orders
softened. However, a machinery manufacturer expected orders to
increase because conditions were improving and distributors had
kept inventories lean. A manufacturer of milled wood products
reported that he currently has sufficient supply, but many
lumber harvesting companies have gone out of business, which
could lead to shortages when demand picks up. Auto parts
manufacturing remained strong, and an aircraft executive
remarked that orders for civilian planes were up. According to
our latest manufacturing survey, the pace of price increases
picked up for raw materials and finished goods.  Ports  Port activity remained strong in recent weeks. Port officials
expect that even after the seasonal increase winds down, import
levels will remain above last year. Food and beverage imports
increased, while exports of automotive parts were particularly
strong. Forest product exports also increased, as Chinese import
constraints were partially lifted. The volume of containerized
grain exports was robust in recent weeks. Heavy equipment
imports and exports slowed as some U.S. coal mines closed and
Chinese purchases slowed. However a port contact cautioned that
comparisons to a year ago appeared weaker than usual because of
last year’s substantial replenishment of some equipment.  Retail  Merchants reported flat to modestly improved sales revenues in
recent weeks. An executive with a chain of hardware stores
remarked that sales were flat since our last report, although
year-over-year same-store sales had increased. Home and garden
retailers, as well as suppliers of building materials reported
stronger sales, and a manager at a sporting goods store
commented that his revenues were up despite rising freight
costs. Auto sales were strong at a dealership near the
Washington, D.C. beltway, although other dealers in  Maryland  and
Virginia indicated sales were flat. Many smaller retailers have
limited weekly hours per employee to control healthcare costs.
As a result, some employees are taking second jobs, and a few
firms are even partnering to help their employees “stitch
together” full time hours by working for both businesses.
Average retail prices rose more quickly in recent weeks.  Services  Revenues at non-retail services firms were mixed since our last
report. Demand for trucking services softened slightly in recent
weeks, according to a national freight carrier. Another contact
reported that loads have become heavier and there is a shift to
rail transportation. Healthcare systems executives reported
little change in demand, while cost reduction has continued. An
executive at a West  Virginia  bookkeeping firm said his business
was steady, while a Maryland firm that provides medical records
systems said that revenues picked up. In addition, large
construction companies in Maryland and Washington, D.C. reported
an increase in revenues.
Services price increases quickened.  Tourist bookings slowed from recent strong growth. Although the
federal government shutdown closed some tourist attractions,
those closures did not result in guest cancellations, according
to several hotel contacts. Bookings were flat for a hotel on the
Maryland side of the Chesapeake Bay, and a central North
Carolina hotel reported unusually slow bookings. A hotel manager
in the Tidewater, Virginia area reported that summer finished on
a strong note, but the autumn market of government and
association bookings was below normal. A tourism contact on the
outer banks of North Carolina told us that hotel bookings and
rentals were stable, with family stays during Thanksgiving
becoming increasingly popular. A resort manager in western
Virginia has already received a few early season ski
reservations. An hotelier in the North Carolina Piedmont
expected a strong October for leaf viewing and a sold-out
holiday season.  Finance  Consumer lending increased slightly. New residential mortgage
lending increased according to a lender in West Virginia, who
said that more people were taking long-term fixed rate mortgages
rather than one to five year ARM’s. He added that he has a
decent pipeline for several months ahead and rates were stable.
A North Carolina lender reported that loan demand was stable
although pricing, especially for jumbo loans, was very
competitive. He commented that some lenders were willing to
sacrifice a good bit of margin to get those loans and another
banker described the environment as “pretty brutal.” In
contrast, a lender in Virginia noted much slower demand for
loans and mortgages. A Northern Virginia banker commented,
“Banks are chasing the good deals,” and therefore, spreads
remained low. Inside the  Washington  beltway, demand for
commercial real estate lending was strong, particularly for
hotels and apartment buildings. A central Virginia banker also
reported that lending for multi-family housing and commercial
refinancing remained solid. A lender in North Carolina said
while real estate loans slowed, demand for other commercial
loans rose modestly, particularly in metro areas. Competition
for commercial and industrial lending was strong. Lenders
generally reported no changes in standards and credit quality.  Real Estate  Residential real estate markets improved, although new
construction was limited. Residential sales increased according
to a Realtor in the Washington, D.C. area. He noted that days on
the market remained low despite reduced foot traffic, and sales
in most price ranges improved, with the exception of homes over
$1.5 million. A central North Carolina Realtor reported that
sales and prices rose, while inventory on the market declined to
slightly over five months. Houses in the more affordable range
were moving, while the higher-end market was slow. Another
Realtor commented that the mortgage process could take four and
a half months for even the best applicants. A Maryland contact
noted that new restrictions were making the mortgage process
more challenging. He reported fewer days on the market and a
marked increase in sales of entry level homes, while inventory
remained steady. According to a report from the Tidewater area
of Virginia, residential real estate sales were strong. A
contact in South Carolina told us sales were up, mostly for
price levels below $250,000. He also stated that condo sales
rose slightly, but foreclosures and short sales in that area
continued to depress prices.  Commercial development of multi-family housing has remained
strong. A central Virginia Realtor reported that there is
virtually no new speculative commercial building, and medical
construction is either build to suit or with sixty to eighty
percent of tenants. In contrast, smaller scale, single family
residential development there picked up, and construction and
renovation of apartment buildings was strong. He added that
leasing activity was “reasonable” for smaller tenants; rents
firmed and there were fewer incentives. Commercial leasing
slowed in the D.C. area, according to a contact who told us
people are “punting a little” before making decisions on five to
ten year leases and construction. A central North Carolina real
estate broker reported that retail leasing had improved
slightly. Another Realtor in that state said last year’s
incentives were burning off, and leasing activity was steady. He
commented that vacant office space was sufficient except for
very large blocks, while industrial warehouse construction was
picking up despite rising construction costs. In West Virginia,
a Realtor noted that increased calls and site visits did not
necessarily translate into a new purchase agreement.  Agriculture and Natural Resources Fruit and peanut yields have
been excellent, while cucumber production was reduced this
autumn as a result of too much rain. Cotton and soybean harvests
are also expected to be low this year because of the excessive
rain this summer.  Natural gas production rose since our last report. A contact
noted that some wells on the perimeter of production areas in
West Virginia have produced more than expected, leading to
speculation that the ultimate production area may be larger than
originally defined. As always, further expansion will depend on
prices, which declined in recent weeks. More pipeline was added,
while the rig count remained static. Coal production in the
District declined, with the year-to-date percentage drop in
Maryland and Virginia both in double digits. West Virginia coal
production also fell, although the drop was not as steep.  Labor Markets  Labor markets continued their slow expansion in most areas of
the District since our last report. Our most recent survey
results indicated that employment in manufacturing and in the
non-retail service sector grew modestly. Employers across the
District reported rising turnover and challenges finding
qualified workers in biotech, health care, information
technology, engineering, and advanced manufacturing. Demand for
low- or semi-skilled workers included truckers, retail
associates, warehouse employees, machine operators, and
collections agents. Many contacts also commented on reluctance
to expand due to uncertainty surrounding the Affordable Care
Act; some employers cut hours or employees. Remarks on effects
of sequestration were mixed. Average wages in the manufacturing
and service sectors increased more quickly in recent weeks.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 