-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Minneapolis District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-minneapolis-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Ninth District--  Minneapolis .  NINTH DISTRICT - MINNEAPOLIS  The Ninth District economy grew moderately since the last
report. Increased activity was noted in consumer spending,
tourism, residential and commercial real estate, professional
services, manufacturing, energy and mining. Residential and
commercial construction continues to grow at a robust rate,
while agricultural conditions deteriorated somewhat. Labor
markets tightened modestly since the last report, and wage
increases were moderate. Price increases were modest. The
effects of the partial federal government shutdown on the Ninth
District economy were too early to determine.  Consumer Spending and Tourism  Overall consumer spending increased since the last report. Sales
and traffic at a Minneapolis area mall were level during the
past two months, according to the mall manager. Recent sales
were about the same as last year’s strong results at a North
Dakota mall; apparel sales were soft. A Minnesota-based food
producer reported that recent cereal sales increased 4 percent
compared with a year earlier. A Minnesota auto dealer reported
recent strong traffic and sales for new and used cars and
trucks; service business was also strong. New vehicle sales were
robust in North Dakota, but activity was slightly slower from
exceptionally strong sales a year ago.  Tourism activity was solid. Respondents to a survey of Minnesota
hotels, resorts and campgrounds expect fall occupancy to be
somewhat better than in 2012. Tourism businesses in  Montana 
noted strong occupancy levels at hotels and motels and solid
activity at tourism destinations through the end of the summer
season. Convention business and leisure travel was very good
during the past two months in the Sioux Falls, S.D., area,
according to an official. However, some South Dakota hotels
noted that fall reservations by hunters decreased due to a
report that the number of pheasants in the state was down.
Tourism destinations funded by the federal government were
recently closed due to the partial government shutdown.  Construction and Real Estate  Commercial construction activity continued to grow since the
last report. The value of September commercial building permits
in Billings, Mont., increased significantly from last year. In
Sioux Falls, the value of September commercial permits increased
from a year ago. Several commercial building projects were
announced in the Minneapolis-St. Paul area since the last
report. Robust growth was noted in residential construction,
especially for multifamily housing. Several multifamily building
projects were announced since the last report. A long-time
developer of apartment buildings warned that “massive” amounts
of construction could be a sign of overbuilding. In the
Minneapolis-St. Paul area, the value of residential permits in
September was up by 47 percent from September of 2012. However,
the value of September residential building permits in Sioux
Falls and Billings fell from 2012.  Activity in commercial real estate markets increased since the
last report. Contacts noted that several commercial real estate
transactions occurred since the last report, including sales and
leasing activity at higher rents. A real estate analytical firm
reported that retail vacancy rates edged downward in the
Minneapolis market in the third quarter. A contact from a hotel
chain noted increased occupancy and rates for properties in the
Ninth District. Residential real estate markets experienced
moderate growth since the last report. August home sales were up
7 percent from the same period a year ago in  Minnesota ; the
inventory of homes for sale increased by 4 percent, and median
sale prices rose 14 percent. However, in the Sioux Falls area,
September home sales were down 4 percent, inventory was down 5
percent and the median sale price increased 3 percent relative
to a year earlier. In La Crosse, Wis., September home sales and
the median price declined from September 2012.  Services  Recent activity at professional business services firms grew
since the last report. A web design firm noted strong demand,
but growth was limited by the lack of available talent. A
package design firm noted a recent uptick in activity. Architect
contacts noted a slight increase in bidding activity. Mortgage
and real estate title company contacts reported a continued
decrease in refinance activity.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity continued to grow moderately. A
September survey of purchasing managers by Creighton University
(Omaha, Neb.) indicated that manufacturing activity increased in
Minnesota and the Dakotas. An aerospace manufacturer announced a
$34 million expansion of a plant in Montana. A producer of
landscaping equipment announced plans to expand a Minnesota
facility.  Energy and Mining  The energy sector continued to grow. Late-September oil and gas
exploration activity increased in North Dakota and was flat in
Montana from a month earlier; production remained at record
levels. Several highway expansion projects were under way in
western North Dakota to accommodate oilfield traffic. Meanwhile,
mining activity increased. Production at District iron ore mines
picked up from its lull earlier in the year, but remained
slightly below year-earlier levels. A stalled copper-nickel
mining development in  Michigan ’s Upper Peninsula resumed
construction after it was sold to another owner. Work began on a
Montana plant that will reprocess mining waste for construction
and industrial use.  Agriculture  Agricultural conditions deteriorated somewhat since the last
report. Drought conditions returned to the eastern part of the
District in late summer, with parts of eastern North Dakota and
central Minnesota seeing severe drought conditions in early
September. Crop progress remains behind average due to late
spring planting, and yields are likely to be affected. While
much of the District corn and soybean crops remain in good or
excellent condition, overall quality has fallen in recent weeks.
However, in Minnesota, apple growers are expecting a strong
harvest. Prices received by farmers in September increased from
a year earlier for hogs, cattle, milk, dry beans and chickens;
prices for corn, wheat, soybeans, hay, eggs and turkeys fell
from a year earlier.  Employment, Wages and Prices  Labor markets tightened modestly since the last report.
Minnesota initial claims for unemployment insurance benefits
decreased 12 percent in August compared with a year earlier.  A web-based image publishing company recently broke ground on a
facility in Minnesota that will add at least 300 jobs to the
area. A Minnesota manufacturing company expansion will add 50
new positions at its headquarters. Contacts from Minnesota
staffing agencies noted increased demand for workers and fewer
workers applying for jobs. However, a bank recently eliminated
about 330 jobs in Minnesota due to slowing demand for home-mortgage financing, and a Minnesota advertising company recently
laid off more than 30 workers in the state. A Minnesota-based
retailer announced that it is planning to hire fewer temporary
workers during the holiday season than last year.  Wage increases were moderate. According to a recent St. Cloud
(Minn.) Area Quarterly Business Report, 43 percent of
respondents expect to increase compensation over the next six
months, while 56 percent expect no change. In last year’s
survey, 41 percent expected to increase compensation, while 58
percent expected no change.  Price increases were modest. Most metals prices were relatively
level since the last report. Minnesota gasoline prices at the
end of September were down about 20 cents per gallon from the
end of August and almost 40 cents per gallon from a year
earlier.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 