-- U.S. Shutdown to Hit Tata Consultancy Earnings: Corporate India
-- B y   K a r t i k a y   M e h r o t r a
-- 2013-10-17T04:14:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-shutdown-to-hit-tata-consultancy-earnings-corporate-india.html
Tata Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) ,
 Asia ’s largest software exporter by market value, forecasts
“softness” in third-quarter earnings as U.S. contracts are
hurt by the government shutdown.  Clients will defer portions of contracts into January amid
the 16-day shutdown, Chief Financial Officer Rajesh Gopinathan
said in an interview. While technology companies typically trim
operations in December, the shutdown may force the practice to
spread, he said before Congress voted today to end the impasse.  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  Computer Sciences Corp. (CSC) ,
companies that rely on U.S. government contracts, are among
employers that used temporary layoffs of workers during the
shutdown. The closing could extend the impact across the
software and consulting industry if non-government clients
delayed spending on contracts and services, said Anurag Rana, a
New York-based analyst with Bloomberg Industries.  “People freeze and stop spending when the government shuts
down. No one is immune,” Rana said.  The company this week beat analyst estimates, posting a
profit of 47 billion rupees ($761 million) in the three months
through September. Larger rival  Accenture Plc (ACN)  in September
forecast earnings may fall short of expectations.  North America  For the current quarter, net income is forecast at 46.5
billion rupees, a 32 percent increase from a year earlier and a
1 percent decline from the September quarter, according to the
median of six analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  North America  accounted for 53.2 percent of Tata
Consultancy’s revenue in the September quarter, compared with
53.8 percent a year ago, according to a company  statement  on
Oct. 15. That share may continue to slide as European economies
show signs of recovery, yielding an increase in the region’s
share of revenue.  The  House of Representatives  approved a measure passed by
the Senate to raise the U.S. debt limit and end the shutdown.
Senators voted 81-18 in favor of the move and the House
supported the move by 285 votes to 144 votes. President Barack Obama supports the agreement.  Tata Consultancy  shares  were poised for the biggest loss in
a month, dropping 2.6 percent to 2,158.15 rupees as of 9:39 a.m.
in Mumbai. The stock has surged 72 percent this year, compared
with a 5.4 percent gain in the benchmark S&P BSE Sensex index.
 India ’s markets were closed yesterday for a public holiday.  The Mumbai-based company has diversified sources of revenue
to mitigate the impact of unforeseen economic and political
scenarios, Gopinathan said.  Meager Growth  Growth in the third quarter ending Dec. 31 is typically
meager and the shutdown will probably exacerbate that trend,
Gopinathan said.  “It’s normal practice for work on projects to be suspended
during the last few weeks of the year,” he said by phone from
Mumbai. “That may happen again this year, but with more
shutdowns spread across other industries.”  Tata Consultancy is continuing to evaluate acquisition
targets in  Europe , he said, without elaborating on which country
or how much it would spend. The company completed its
acquisition of  France ’s Alti SA in July.  While the shutdown has crimped U.S. growth, the company may
seek to provide IT services in the nation’s health-care
industry.  Untapped Market  The sputtering start to President  Barack Obama ’s health-care exchanges may lead to “very, very big” spending on
information services over the next five to 10 years, Gopinathan
said.  “We have fairly aggressive plans for America’s health-care
industry and are exploring all forms of participation,” he
said, without ruling out an acquisition to promote their
position. “We have never shied away from taking a leadership
role, especially in such a hugely untapped market.”  Expansion in health care may bolster Tata Consultancy’s
position as India’s leading outsourcing company, which saw
margins improve to 30.2 percent from 26.8 percent, including a
300 basis points surge, thanks to India’s depreciating rupee,
Chief Executive Officer N. Chandrasekaran told reporters in
Mumbai on Oct. 15. The currency declined 5.2 percent against the
dollar in the July-September period.  “These are superb results,” Urmil Shah, a Mumbai-based
analyst with Kim Eng Securities Ltd said after the company
reported its second-quarter earnings. “TCS is just winning more
large deals than their biggest competition. They’ve diversified
their efforts and are growing across industry verticals.”  New Normal  The company is waiting for the rupee to stabilize before
determining if levels of 61 to 62 rupees per dollar are “the
new normal,” Gopinathan said. Sales climbed 34 percent to 209.8
billion rupees. That compared with the 207.7 billion-rupee
median estimate compiled by Bloomberg.  Worldwide spending on information technology services is
forecast to grow 3.4 percent this year,  researcher IDC said  on
Aug. 5, lowering its earlier estimate for 3.8 percent growth.  That spending is likely to slow for at least a quarter
because of the impasse, Rana said.  “Right now, contracts are priced to perfection,” he said.
“This kind of a hiccup in economic stability could very well
take its toll.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartikay Mehrotra in  New Delhi  at 
 kmehrotra2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at   mtighe4@bloomberg.net  