-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Dallas District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-dallas-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s eleventh District-- Dallas .  ELEVENTH DISTRICT - DALLAS  The Eleventh District economy expanded at a moderate pace over
the past six weeks. Manufacturing activity increased overall and
retail sales edged up. Services firms reported mixed demand. The
housing sector remained strong, with rising construction and
sales. Office and industrial leasing activity picked up.
Financial institutions said loan demand was flat to up modestly.
Energy activity remained at high levels, and the severity of
drought conditions eased somewhat. Prices held steady or rose at
most responding firms. Employment levels were flat or slightly
increased, and wage pressures picked up.  Prices  Contacts said prices were stable or up over the reporting
period. Manufacturers reported flat prices with the exception of
increases in cement, brick, and paper. Contacts noted no change
in retail or automobile prices since the last report. Accounting
and legal firms noted modest increases in billing rates, and
shipping rates increased in light of higher fuel costs. Airlines
reported mostly flat ticket prices but higher fees.  Home prices 
rose notably, and several real estate contacts noted strong
growth in office and apartment rents. There were some reports of
increased input costs, particularly for steel, rubber, beef, and
dairy products.  Changes in energy prices were mixed; natural gas prices held
steady while the price of West Texas Intermediate crude oil fell
slightly over the reporting period. Gasoline and diesel prices
declined modestly from six weeks ago.  Labor Market  Employment levels held steady or increased slightly at most
responding firms. Scattered reports of hiring came from staffing
services, high-tech firms, fabricated metals and food
manufacturers. Retail hiring was generally limited to new
stores, and headcounts rose at law firms as fall associates came
on board. Reports of labor shortages eased somewhat from earlier
in the year, although construction firms cited difficulty
finding subcontractors, and some respondents noted a competitive
job market for accountants and financial analysts.  Reports of pay increases were more widespread than in prior
periods. Accounting firms noted strong increases in wages and
bonuses. A retail contact reported upward wage pressure for IT
workers, and wages rose in fabricated metals and construction-related manufacturing. Legal and finance firms said raises will
be modest but above what was given last year.  Manufacturing  Most responding firms noted an increase in manufacturing
activity over the reporting period. Construction-related
manufacturers said demand was flat or up, and a brick contact
noted a sharp rise in residential projects. Fabricated metals
demand continued to rise, supported by the energy sector and
road construction, while demand for primary metals softened
slightly but remained at or above year-ago levels. Demand
increased for paper and food producers.  High-tech manufacturers said orders were flat to slightly up,
and one semiconductor firm noted demand increased for three
consecutive quarters for the first time since 2010. Respondents
expect mild growth to continue over the next three to six
months.  Some transportation manufacturing contacts reported sizable
increases in demand. An automobile manufacturer said a pickup in
construction prompted a rise in demand for light trucks, and
that orders exceeded production capacity. Contacts expect 2013
to be on par with 2012 or slightly stronger.  Petrochemical producers noted decreased production in August,
although year-to-date production was slightly above what it was
during the same period last year. Increased  oil prices  provided
further support to the cost advantage of domestic petrochemical
firms, but softening global demand and unplanned outages
suppressed exports.  Retail Sales  Respondents reported that retail sales were up slightly over the
reporting period, and year-over-year demand was up in the low to
middle single digits. Two national firms reported that retail
activity in Texas continued to marginally outperform activity in
the nation. Contacts’ outlooks for the next six to twelve months
are cautiously positive.  Automobile sales held fairly steady overall. Demand was up year
over year but not as much as expected, possibly due to a lack of
confidence among buyers. Inventories were in line with
respondents’ expectations. Contacts have positive outlooks for
the fourth quarter and into 2014.  Nonfinancial Services  Nonfinancial services contacts reported mixed demand. Staffing
services firms noted flat demand overall since the last report
but saw an unexpected decline in direct hires. One contact saw a
few signed contracts designed to circumvent the Affordable Care
Act (ACA) by utilizing a temporary employee full time, then
hiring that person on a permanent but part-time basis when the
ACA goes into effect. Accounting firms noted demand was up
seasonally due to upcoming tax deadlines, and also up modestly
year over year. Contacts expect the strong demand to continue,
with a further pickup in transactions work. Legal firms reported
a modest decrease in demand. Litigation and corporate
transactions work remained slow, and demand fell for healthcare
and land use legal services. Intellectual property litigation
increased and real estate work remained elevated, although it
abated recently. The outlook for legal services is guarded and
lawyers are less bullish than in prior periods.  Transportation service firms said container and cargo volumes
increased over the reporting period, except for air cargo, which
held steady. Loaded container volume was up in August and up
year to date compared with the same period in 2012. Strength was
reported in retail imports in advance of the holiday season, and
the growth was stronger than last year. Small parcel cargo
volume grew at an accelerating pace in August, with growth
driven by e-commerce. Air cargo volume was largely unchanged
over the reporting period, both domestically and
internationally, and was down slightly on a year-to-date basis
when compared with last year. Contacts noted a continued trend
toward cargo being carried less by passenger aircraft and more
by cargo airlines.  Airline contacts noted a seasonal decline in passenger demand
over the past six weeks, although demand was slightly stronger
than year-ago levels. Travel to  Latin America  and  Europe  was
robust while travel to  Asia  was weak. Firms expect the fourth
quarter to compare favorably to the fourth quarter of last year,
and one contact is optimistic that 2014 will be stronger than
2013.  Construction and Real Estate  The District housing sector remained strong over the reporting
period. Respondents said most major Texas markets continued to
record robust sales, while demand slowed in some parts of the
U.S. Home prices continued to rise, due in part to low
inventories of existing homes and finished lots. Contacts expect
the pace of price increases to moderate slightly when new  home
construction  catches up to demand. The summer’s rise in  mortgage
rates  had little effect on demand and reduced affordability only
slightly, according to respondents. Contacts expect steady
demand through the rest of the year and anticipate construction
levels in 2014 will pick up further. Healthy apartment demand
pushed occupancy rates higher despite high levels of multifamily
construction activity. Increases in rents were strong in several
major metros, and contacts are optimistic in their outlooks for
2014.  Office and industrial leasing activity strengthened, especially
in Dallas and Houston, and contacts noted strong growth in rents
for class A  office space . Several respondents noted a pickup in
investment sales for office and industrial buildings. Outlooks
for Texas commercial real estate remained optimistic.  Financial Services  Loan demand remained soft and was flat to up modestly from six
weeks ago. Demand for mortgages was robust, although increased
mortgage rates lowered demand from exceptionally high levels and
led to less mortgage refinancing. Loan quality was good and
continued to improve modestly. Financial institutions were able
to sell real estate owned properties for gains. Loan pricing
remained extremely competitive, with big banks undercutting
community banks, especially in Austin. Deposit volumes and rates
did not change, but there was some competition in rates for
certificates of deposit. Outlooks are cautiously optimistic,
with mortgage lending expected to remain strong and small
business lending expected to increase.  Energy  Respondents said that energy activity was little changed at high
levels over the reporting period. Activity was better than a
year ago, but margins for oil and gas services firms have
tightened. Global demand held steady. Oil and gas extraction
firms continued to expect modest improvement through the end of
2013 and into 2014.  Agriculture  The District remained largely in drought, although the severity
lessened in late September in  Texas  due to good rainfall and the
excessive heat tapering off. The harvest progressed normally for
row crops, and conditions were mostly fair to good. Improved
moisture conditions increased optimism for the winter wheat
crop. Beef exports increased over the reporting period.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 