-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: San Francisco District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-san-francisco-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Twelfth District--  San Francisco   TWELFTH DISTRICT - SAN FRANCISCO  Summary
Economic activity in the Twelfth District expanded at a modest
pace during the reporting period of late August through early
October. Price pressures were limited for most final goods and
services, and upward wage pressures remained modest overall.
Retail sales were a bit soft, while demand for business and
consumer services was mixed. District manufacturing activity
inched up. Agricultural production and sales expanded. Demand
for housing advanced, and commercial real estate activity
gained. Reports from financial institutions indicated that loan
demand rose.  Prices and Wages  Price pressures were tame for most final goods and services.
While wheat prices have increased, contacts in the agricultural
and restaurant industries mentioned softening prices of some
other commodities, particularly beef. Some retail grocers were
reluctant to raise shelf prices, citing consumers’ price
sensitivity. Technology industry contacts recognized stronger
downward pressure on prices resulting from more aggressive
competition lately. Reports indicated upward pressure on prices
of various construction inputs, including wood and cement.  Upward wage pressures remained modest overall. Slack in the
labor market restrained wage gains in most sectors, occupations,
and regions. Firms in various industries continued to compete
vigorously for a limited pool of qualified workers, including
construction supervisors and software developers, spurring
significant wage growth. In particular, reports noted that the
pace of wage gains for software developers might have even
picked up in recent months. Contacts indicated that some small
businesses have boosted compensation packages to minimize
voluntary staff turnover.  Retail Trade and Services  Aside from spending on big-ticket items and certain technology
products, retail sales were a bit soft. Contacts pointed to
evidence of pent-up demand and attractive financing
opportunities spurring households to purchase big-ticket items,
particularly autos and housing-related goods. Contacts in the
technology industry expect a near-term pickup in spending on
various hardware and software products, including storage, cloud
computing-related infrastructure, and enterprise security
software. Retail grocers and department store contacts noted
flat and sluggish sales, respectively. A beverage retailer also
noted that consumer demand was stagnant. On net, luxury items
and premium brands sold relatively well, but growth slowed for
other categories of full-priced items as consumers continued to
search for the lowest prices.  Demand for business and consumer services was mixed. Technology
contacts noted that, although demand for various technology
services ticked up in the U.S. and near-term expectations remain
positive, demand in  Europe  appeared to slip. Reports indicated
that demand for discretionary health-care services was somewhat
weak. Restaurant industry contacts noted ongoing softness in
same-store sales in the quick-service restaurant and casual
dining segments of the industry. Travel and tourism activity in
 Hawaii  maintained its solid pace of growth, although contacts
noted weaker visitor arrivals from the western  United States 
recently. Contacts noted year-over-year declines in Las Vegas
gaming revenues, as the  tourism industry  there continued to face
challenges.  Manufacturing  District manufacturing activity appeared to inch up during the
reporting period of late August through early October. Contacts
noted that activity along the supply chain for electronic
components improved, and capacity utilization remained near its
historical average. Uncertainty about fiscal policy triggered
reductions of new orders and revenue in the defense industry.
Providers of pharmaceuticals noted increased activity in the
biotech  drug industry . A wood products manufacturer indicated
that demand eased over the summer, and a metal manufacturer
noted that production activity slowed a bit. However, demand for
steel products used primarily in nonresidential construction
edged up further, and steel producers reported that overall
capacity utilization was mostly stable. In particular, reports
indicated an ongoing trend of stronger capacity utilization for
steel manufacturing of automobile and aircraft-related inputs
than for nonresidential construction inputs.  Agriculture and Resource-related Industries  Agricultural and resource-related sales and production activity
expanded in the District. Demand remained strong for most crop
and livestock products. Contacts noted that competition for
grapes in the  California  wine industry contributed to higher
prices for grapes, which passed through to raisin prices,
reducing sales and increasing inventories of raisins. Water
availability was adequate on net but limited in some areas.
Overall demand for oil products ticked up. Refinery utilization
rates, total refinery inputs, and gasoline production activity
increased since the previous reporting period. The stock of
stored natural gas was up as well compared with the previous
reporting period, but notably down year-over-year. Utility
providers reported that consumer energy usage patterns were
consistent with ongoing modest growth in  consumer spending .  Real Estate and Construction  Housing demand advanced overall, and commercial real estate
activity improved. Home prices and sales climbed further in many
District cities. Reports indicated that residential permit
issuance increased in parts of California but decreased in some
areas of the Pacific Northwest. Construction activity ramped up
on net, although in some areas, new building activity was held
back by factors such as poor lot availability and shortages of
skilled construction workers. Contacts indicated that
multifamily residential construction projects increased. Rental
rates for commercial real estate were stable by some reports and
up according to others. Technology and medical services firms in
particular drove the growth in demand for commercial real estate
in the San Francisco Bay Area and  Seattle .  Financial Institutions  Financial institutions indicated that loan demand rose. Most
contacts reported increased lending. Some small businesses in
areas with strengthening local economic conditions sought
increased financing for equipment or real estate purchases. Some
banks reported slower mortgage origination and especially
refinancing activity in response to higher  interest rates ,
although rising home price appraisals have sparked increased
activity in home equity lending. Reports highlighted ample bank
liquidity and substantial competition for high-quality
commercial borrowers. Regional and community banks aggressively
sought out well-qualified small business borrowers. Demand for
asset management and investment advisory services was strong. In
the District’s Internet and digital media sectors, mergers and
acquisitions and venture capital activity grew in terms of both
deal value and volume, and the pace of initial public offerings
picked up substantially. Private equity financing activity, on
the other hand, was mostly flat.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 