-- U.S. Bancorp Sees Deposit Flood as Treasury Default Looms
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D e x h e i m e r
-- 2013-10-16T19:39:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-bancorp-sees-deposit-flood-as-treasury-default-looms.html
Customers have moved billions of
dollars to cash in case U.S. lawmakers can’t strike a deal in
time to avert a default on Treasury securities, according to
 U.S. Bancorp (USB) , the nation’s biggest regional lender.  “We are seeing a growth of deposits in the billions of
dollars,” said U.S. Bancorp Chief Financial Officer Andrew Cecere in a telephone interview today. “Clients, particularly
institutional clients, are putting excess cash in the bank just
to make sure that they can maintain the liquidity.”  Across the U.S., investors have pulled $41.6 billion from
money-market mutual funds in the past week, according to
research firm Crane Data LLC in Westborough,  Massachusetts . The
exodus comes as regional banks including Minneapolis-based U.S.
Bancorp take steps to keep money flowing if Congress lets U.S.
borrowing authority lapse.  U.S. Bancorp ranks fifth by deposits among U.S. commercial
banks, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Executives have
met daily this week to discuss operational contingency plans,
Cecere said. One involves ways to abort computerized payments to
holders of Treasury debt starting tomorrow, Cecere said.  “The automation that is in place will need to be
overridden,” he said. “We are ready for that to take place.”  Average total deposits increased 2 percent to $252.4
billion in the third quarter from the second quarter, U.S.
Bancorp said today in a statement.  Commercial paper borrowers have started to adjust their
roll-over dates in case of a disruption, Beth Mooney, chief
executive officer of Cleveland-based  KeyCorp (KEY) , said in a
telephone interview today.  Staying Liquid  “The places where you need to watch is, for any business,
you need to be liquid,” Mooney said. “We are all in the camp
that lawmakers will do the right thing and will not put us in a
position to default on our debt.”  The nation’s largest banks also adjusted their holdings,
with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  telling investors this week it doesn’t own
Treasury securities that mature in October and that it holds few
with terms ending before Nov. 16. Morgan Stanley Investment
Management told clients its money-market funds aren’t holding
Treasuries that mature in the next month. Fidelity Investments
and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , the biggest providers of U.S. money-market mutual funds, said they made similar changes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dexheimer in  New York  at 
 edexheimer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  