-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Cleveland District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-cleveland-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Fourth District--  Cleveland .  FOURTH DISTRICT - CLEVELAND  The Fourth District’s economy continued to expand at a moderate
pace during the past six weeks. On balance, demand for
manufactured products grew at a moderate rate. Housing market
activity held steady; nonetheless, sales of new and existing
homes were above year-ago levels. Nonresidential builders saw an
overall pick-up in business. Retailers reported stronger sales
during August and September, while new motor-vehicle purchases
posted moderate gains on a year-over-year basis. Shale-gas
activity is showing signs of moderating due to low natural gas
prices; still, production is at historic highs. Output at coal
mines trended lower. The rate of growth in freight volume has
slowed. Applications for business credit were flat, while
consumer credit demand rose slightly.  Hiring was sluggish across industry sectors. Staffing-firm
representatives reported that the number of  job openings  and
placements increased slightly, with vacancies found primarily in
healthcare and manufacturing. Wage pressures remain contained.
Input and finished goods prices saw little change, apart from
increases in residential construction materials.  Manufacturing  Reports from District factories showed that demand was steady to
growing at a robust pace during the past couple of months.
Companies seeing the strongest activity were suppliers to the
housing, motor-vehicle, and oil and gas industries. Weakness in
euro-zone and Asian economies was often cited as a barrier to
stronger growth. Defense contractors are still coping with
uncertainty, which was attributed to the sequester. Compared to
a year ago, manufacturing production levels are similar or
higher. Most of our contacts are cautiously optimistic and
expect little change in demand, although many were uneasy about
fiscal issues and implications of the Affordable Care Act on
their businesses. Steel producers and service centers reported
that shipping volume is increasing, but at a very slow rate.
Several respondents continue to express concern about the
quantity of steel imports, especially from  China . Steel
producers do not expect market conditions to change appreciably
in the upcoming months. District auto production recovered in
August on a month-over-month basis as motor-vehicle assembly
plants returned to normal production schedules. Compared to a
year ago, motor-vehicle production figures revealed a sizeable
increase.  Only a few manufacturers reported that they are moving forward
with capacity expansion plans. Other producers said that they
see a need to expand capacity, but they will not proceed because
of uncertainty about the economy. One manufacturer commented
that he will postpone any expansion until GDP grows at a
sustained rate of 3 percent. Capital outlays are being allocated
primarily for productivity enhancements. Several manufacturers
indicated that they are taking a more conservative stance toward
upcoming capital budgets until there is a higher degree of
certainty about future demand. Raw material and finished goods
prices were generally flat. Factories expanded payrolls at a
sluggish pace. Several contacts expect production wages will
rise between 2 and 3 percent in the near term. There is anxiety
about rising health insurance premiums, which was attributed to
the Affordable Care Act.  Real Estate  Sales of new single-family homes and construction starts were
stable but below levels seen during the second quarter. Compared
to a year ago, new home-building activity is considerably
higher. Builders are uncertain about the effect of rising
 interest rates  on potential buyers. New-home contracts were
found mainly in the mid-price-point category. The first-time
home-buyer category remains very weak. Builders are confident
that demand for new homes will persist in the upcoming months,
and they believe that some loosening in credit markets would
provide a boost to their industry. Selling prices of new homes
are rising across the District. Two builders told us that they
were able to push through increases during August to offset
rising labor and material costs.  Nonresidential builders reported an overall pick-up in business,
but it remains difficult to move projects from the pipeline to a
contract signing due to uncertainty on the part of clients. Very
large projects are few in number, and renovations are more
prevalent than new building in some regions of the District. In
general, business is stronger than a year ago. Inquiries and
backlogs have strengthened since our last report. The strongest
activity was in manufacturing, distribution, healthcare, and
multifamily housing. A developer of retail space characterized
his industry as strong and much more positive than two years
ago. He noted a decline in regional mall footprints due to chain
consolidation and on-line shopping. Our contacts were fairly
optimistic about near-term growth prospects, but they are
concerned about unresolved fiscal policy issues.  Prices for residential construction materials--lumber and
drywall--have increased substantially in the past year, but the
rate of increase is slowing. General contractors reported very
limited hiring of field and office workers. Many builders cited
a scarcity of high-skilled trade workers, many of whom left the
industry during the recession and are not returning. As a
result, there is upward pressure on wages, and subcontractors
are demanding higher rates. Subcontractors are also having
difficulty obtaining operating capital.  Consumer Spending  Most retailers we spoke with reported that same-store sales were
stronger in August and September than they had been during the
previous four months and were above year-ago levels. They cited
an improving labor market and new product introductions as
reasons for the increase. Products in greater demand included
back-to-school items, home furnishings, and cold-weather
apparel. A food retailer attributed her chain’s margin growth to
consumers trading up in their buying habits. Fourth-quarter
sales are expected to improve slightly when compared to those in
the third quarter. Inventories were described as being in good
shape. Retailers were able to clear out their left-over summer
merchandise. Vendor and shelf prices held steady, and
agricultural prices stabilized. Some of our contacts expect to
increase  capital spending  in 2014, mainly for improving e-commerce and distribution systems. Hiring will be limited to
staffing new stores. Temporary hiring for the upcoming  holiday
shopping season  is expected to be modestly higher than a year
ago.  Year-to-date sales through August of new motor vehicles showed a
moderate increase when compared to the same time period a year
ago. On a month-over-month basis, purchases of new vehicles were
only slightly higher during August versus July. Buyers continue
to prefer smaller, fuel-efficient vehicles, although trucks are
in big demand in regions with considerable shale-gas activity.
New-vehicle inventories are lower than desired, which dealers
attributed to the model-year changeover. Our contacts are
optimistic about sales for the remainder of the year. They
project that sales volume for 2013 will be about 10 percent
higher than in 2012 due to pent-up demand, the availability of
financing, and the option to lease. Used-vehicle purchases
increased during the past six weeks. Employment levels at
dealerships held steady. Many of our contacts are concerned
about the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and the
effect it will have on their total labor cost.  Banking  Bankers reported that the low-interest-rate environment
continues to hurt their revenues, though net interest margins
are in line with expectations. Little change is anticipated in
the near term. Demand for business credit was largely unchanged
during the past six weeks. No loan category or industry is
performing significantly better than others, although several
bankers noted that commercial real estate lending has picked up.
Competition for quality loans was described as aggressive.
Consumer-credit demand showed a slight improvement, especially
for auto loans and credit cards. Most bankers reported a
slowdown in residential mortgage activity, mainly on the
refinancing side. A slight rise in interest rates had little
effect on new- purchase applications. For the most part,
delinquency rates declined slightly across categories. On
balance, banking payrolls were flat. We heard a couple of
reports about layoffs due to branch-office downsizing or
closures. Some wage pressure was reported, especially for
employees working in regulation.  Energy  District coal production remains below year-ago levels; however,
the rate of decline is shrinking. Going forward, producers
project little change in production, but they are uneasy about
the effects of the regulatory environment. Spot prices for steam
coal declined, whereas metallurgical coal prices were flat. Oil
and gas drilling held steady during the past six weeks. Output
from shale-gas wells in  Pennsylvania  during the first half of
2013 was at a historic high. Well-head prices for natural gas
are flat to down. One contact reported that, due to low natural
 gas prices  and regulatory uncertainty at the federal, state, and
local levels, the shale-gas industry will grow very slowly
through the end of 2014, and the build-out of the transport and
processing infrastructure will take longer to complete than
originally estimated. Capital outlays are at targeted levels,
and little change was seen in production-equipment and material
costs. One coal company reported a  workforce reduction ;
otherwise, payrolls held steady.  Freight Transportation  Freight executives reported that the rate of growth in shipping
volume has slowed recently. However, year-to-date volume is
higher when compared to the same period in 2012. Demand from
motor-vehicle, shale-gas, and housing industries was strong. The
industry outlook is favorable, with volume growing at a slow,
but steady pace. Freight haulers are still uncertain about the
impact of newly enacted hours-of-service regulations, especially
on labor costs. Other operating costs were fairly stable. A few
contacts noted that they have successfully negotiated rate
increases. Some respondents plan to reduce capital outlays
during the next fiscal year because substantial monies have
already been allocated for capacity expansion or because
equipment costs are high. The industry has been actively hiring
for replacement and adding capacity.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 