-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Philadelphia District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-philadelphia-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Third District-- Philadelphia.  THIRD DISTRICT - PHILADELPHIA  Aggregate business activity in the Third District slowed to a
modest pace of growth during this current Beige Book period
(beginning with the last week of August through the first
partial week of October). The slowdown was most evident in the
housing sectors - existing home sales slowed to a modest pace of
growth, while homebuilders saw sales, traffic, and new contracts
decline; however, construction continued at a modest pace. Other
sectors that continued to expand at a modest rate included
general retail sales, tourism, staffing services, and commercial
real estate leasing. Commercial real estate construction
continued to expand only slightly. Meanwhile, manufacturing
activity improved to a modest pace of growth. Two broad sectors
grew at a more than modest pace: Auto dealers continued to
report a strong rate of sales growth, and moderate rates of
growth continued for general services. Loan volumes at Third
District banks grew at a modest pace across most categories, and
credit quality continued to improve. Contacts reported little
change to the slight overall increases in wages, home prices,
and general price levels - similar to the last Beige Book
period.  Despite a slower pace of growth in some sectors, contacts
overall maintained an outlook for moderate growth - similar to
the last Beige Book. The housing recovery has softened somewhat
for existing home sellers and new homebuilders, and builders are
less optimistic. However, contacts in other sectors continued to
express confidence in the underlying economy. In particular,
manufacturers and service-sector firms expressed greater
confidence in the U.S. economy and in global conditions. In
regard to hiring and capital expenditure plans, firms continued
to expand cautiously, as they face ongoing uncertainty from the
federal government shutdown and implementation of the Affordable
Care Act.  Manufacturing  Overall, Third District manufacturers have reported a
significant rebound in orders and shipments for a modest pace of
growth since the last Beige Book. Over one-third of firms
reported growth. Producers in nearly all sectors of durable and
nondurable goods reported stronger activity. The chemicals and
allied products industry was a notable exception. Overall, firms
continued to report strong demand from auto- and residential
construction-related businesses. Numerous firms reported growing
demand for exports to Europe,  China , and/or South America.
However, one large industrial supplier reported continued growth
through August, then softening in September.  Optimism that business conditions will improve over the next six
months has broadened among Third District manufacturers.
Contacts expect foreign and domestic demand to increase.
Consequently, expectations of hiring and capital spending plans
have largely rebounded since the last Beige Book, including more
talk of “reshoring” of production that had gone overseas.
However, several firms expect to deploy more capital than labor
to meet higher production levels. The federal government
shutdown has reignited concerns about fiscal drag, which is of
most concern to smaller firms. Otherwise, the U.S. economy is
still “poised to grow.”  Retail  Third District retailers have continued to report modest growth
overall since the last Beige Book. Sales in August were
generally stronger than in July, especially at outlet malls;
sales at traditional mall retailers softened somewhat in the
second half of August and then ticked up in early September
after most schools had resumed. Convenience store retailers
reported similar results but noted softness in discretionary
purchases and a reliance on promotions and discounting. Hiring
plans reported by area retailers for the 2013 holiday season
were generally equal to or greater than last year’s - reflecting
similar expectations for sales. Some retailers plan to add
seasonal workers earlier in what appears to be an effort to
extend the shopping season, since the traditional holiday period
will be six days shorter than in 2012. The optimistic sales
expectations generally assume that the federal government
shutdown does not extend beyond two weeks.  Auto dealers reported that August was a “killer” month; however,
year-over-year comparisons were boosted by stealing an extra
Saturday from September compared with last year. September sales
were reported as still very strong, although the lost weekend
may account for a little dip from August’s pace. In addition,
sales slowed for some dealers as they grew low on inventory.
Dealers continued to report good prospects for future sales.  Finance  Overall, Third District financial firms continued to report
modest increases in total loan volume. The most notable
difference from the last Beige Book period was a slight drop in
commercial real estate loan volumes. Contacts noted that demand
for mortgages to purchase homes continued to increase modestly,
as did demand for home equity lines and C&I loans. Stronger
increases were noted for most types of consumer lending,
although volumes for credit cards fell off slightly. Some
bankers indicated that home equity lines were being used to pay
off remaining low mortgage balances. However, with the rise in
interest rates, a mortgage servicing company indicated that
prepayments were starting to slow. While some contacts reported
growth of activity from medium-sized companies, most continued
to report that small businesses remain very cautious. Many
banking contacts expressed concerns about aggressive competition
on rates and terms, suggesting that credit standards may have
eased a little. Overall, most bankers remained optimistic,
although they expressed uncertainty on behalf of their business
customers and for themselves over the implications of both the
Affordable Care Act and a prolonged government shutdown.  Real Estate and Construction  Third District homebuilders reported mixed results in August -
from weak demand to “finished strong.” However, by the end of
September, most builders reported that traffic was down and that
very few contracts for new construction had closed. Builders
assigned only partial blame to rising interest rates, stressing
as well that the pool of potential buyers has been culled by
weakened  consumer confidence . The recent slowdown has caused
builders to adjust their outlook lower. General residential
construction activity continues to grow slightly from prior
sales. Also, other contacts reported strong demand for home
renovations. A final tally of existing home sales also indicated
a slower year-over-year pace of growth in August than in July,
according to many residential brokers. Sales closed and sales
pending barely hit double-digit percent increases (year over
year) in a few of the Third District’s larger metropolitan
areas; the metrics were worse in other areas. Homes sold were
nearly flat in the Harrisburg area and fell in the Lehigh
Valley. Sales pending grew a mere 2 percent in the Greater
Philadelphia area.  Although little change was indicated by nonresidential real
estate contacts in the modest pace of overall leasing activity
and slight growth of construction, their outlook improved
overall. Architecture and engineering firms continued to see
stronger interest and workflow. The resurgence of Philadelphia-area refineries continued to reignite strong construction and
maintenance operations. Leasing agents, management companies,
and commercial market analysts are increasingly upbeat over the
steady progress in various sectors and locations within the
Third District.  Services  Third District service-sector firms continued to report a
moderate pace of growth overall; staffing firms and tourism
maintained a more modest pace. Parts of the Jersey shore
experienced lighter traffic this season. Hotel activity was on
par with previous seasons; however, longer-term rentals were
down, suggesting that tourists kept their visits short. A
Delaware shore realtor reported slow but steady sales in August
and September; however, the realtor did not see the pickup in
rentals he was expecting during the summer season.  Other service firms continued a moderate pace of growth overall.
A large IT firm reported a very strong increase in sales as “the
floodgates opened over the last year.” Another large service
firm reported continued moderate improvement in its base
business and an increase in new business from last year. A third
large firm reported “not much has changed - a point or two on
the softer side,” but still growing and doing great. Overall,
service-sector firms remained optimistic about future growth.  Prices and Wages  Overall, price levels continued to increase slightly, similar to
the previous Beige Book. Manufacturing firms reported that
prices paid and prices received moved higher again; the
increases were more widespread this period than last. However,
auto dealers and general retailers reported little change in
pricing, and builders reported holding prices steady. Most
contacts report coping with extremely tight margins. Generally,
real estate contacts continued to report rising prices for
lower-priced homes, while higher-priced homes are aligned to
local market conditions. Some contacts reported high-cost
increases for employees’ health insurance coverage. However,
very few contacts are seeing wage pressures, other than for a
few highly skilled occupations.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 