-- U.S. Dealers Fear Chinese Carmakers Following Tesla Model
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2013-10-16T20:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-auto-dealers-fear-chinese-carmakers-following-tesla-model.html
Chinese automakers could pose a
threat to the U.S. auto industry’s dealer franchise system by
following  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  in selling directly to customers,
the chairman of  National Automobile Dealers Association  said.  “It’s in the back of everybody’s minds at this point, just
to make sure that we should talk to the Chinese as their cars
evolve,” David Westcott, a North Carolina auto dealer, said
yesterday at an Automotive Press Association event in Detroit.
“Dealers won’t fight having those cars come in. Will we fight
to make sure there’s a franchise system? Yes.”  Tesla, the world’s biggest seller of premium electric cars,
sells directly to customers and has company-owned outlets. NADA,
which represents almost 16,000 new-car dealers, has opposed the
Palo Alto, California-based company’s decision to forgo the use
of franchised dealerships while leaving legal challenges up to
states.  The largest U.S. automakers are closely monitoring Chinese
carmakers and the ambitions held by the companies and their
government to someday enter the U.S. market. Great Wall Motor
Co.,  China ’s top seller of sport-utility vehicles, has the most
traction among that nation’s automakers that are looking to
expand abroad, David Schoch, president of  Ford Motor Co. (F) ’s Asia
Pacific operations, told reporters last week.  Tesla shares have soared fivefold this year after posting
its first quarterly profit, repaying a U.S. loan nine years
early and introducing its Model S sedan to Europe and Asia.  NADA leaders have met with Tesla Chief Executive Officer
Elon Musk several times, Westcott said. He said he would be
“glad to have” a Tesla franchise if the company decides to
change course with its distribution strategy.  Musk, 42, “has even said himself that once his volume gets
to a certain point, that he’s going to probably have to embrace
the franchise system,” Westcott said yesterday. “Long term, we
probably don’t disagree.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in  Detroit  at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  