-- U.S. Shoppers to Cut Holiday Budgets by 2% Amid Shutdown Concern
-- B y   M i n s i   C h u n g
-- 2013-10-16T15:29:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-shoppers-to-cut-holiday-budgets-by-2-amid-shutdown-concern.html
U.S. shoppers will trim their
holiday budgets by about two percent as they wait to see how the
government shutdown and fiscal impasse will affect the economy,
according to the  National Retail Federation .  The average American will spend $737.95 this year on
holiday purchases such as gifts, decor and greeting cards, down
from the $752.24 they spent in 2012, the  survey  released today
showed. Most of their holiday shopping budget is set to go
towards gifts for family members and more than half of consumers
will shop online.  U.S. politicians have been locked in negotiations since
Oct. 1, when the government partially shut down leaving about
800,000 federal employees temporarily out of work, and are
rushing to come to an agreement to end the fiscal impasse and
extend U.S. borrowing authority which lapses tomorrow.  “Americans are questioning the stability of our economy,
our government and their own finances,” said NRF President and
CEO Matthew Shay. “It’s evident some could second-guess their
spending” as shoppers wait to see what will become of the  U.S.
economy  in the coming months.  Twenty-nine percent of those surveyed said the political
gridlock specifically would affect their holiday spending while
more than half said the overall state of the economy would
impact their spending this season.  The NRF survey comes on the heels of a study commissioned
by Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and released yesterday which showed
two out of five Americans have cut spending because of concerns
over the government shutdown.  Although the average consumer is expected to spend less
this year, the NRF predicts holiday sales will still increase
3.9 percent to $602.1 billion. More than 40 percent of consumers
say they will start holiday shopping before Halloween with
almost two-thirds of those saying they are buying early in order
to spread out their holiday budget. Almost 65 percent say they
will buy their holiday items at  discount stores , followed by
department stores and grocery stores.  The survey of 6,415 consumers was conducted Oct. 1 to Oct.
8 by Prosper Insights & Analytics for the NRF.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Minsi Chung in  New York  at 
 mchung82@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  