-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: New York District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-new-york-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Second District--  New York .  SECOND DISTRICT - NEW YORK  Economic growth in the Second District has continued at a
moderate pace since the last report. Contacts indicate some
increase in cost pressures, though selling prices continue to be
steady to up slightly. Labor market conditions have shown
further signs of improvement, and there are scattered reports of
wage pressures. General merchandise retailers indicate that
sales were generally steady in September and close to plan,
while new auto sales have been increasingly robust. Tourism
activity has shown some signs of picking up since the last
report. Commercial and especially residential real estate
markets have shown signs of firming. In contrast, contacts in
the manufacturing sector report a pause in growth, and the
climate in the financial sector is described as downbeat.
Bankers report softer loan demand from the household sector, no
change in credit standards, little change in loan spreads, and
continued widespread declines in delinquency rates. More
broadly, some contacts express concern about potential
disruptive effects of a prolonged federal government shutdown.  Consumer Spending  Retailers report that sales have been generally steady and close
to plan since the last report. A major retail chain reports that
sales were on plan in both August and September, with  New York
City  stores continuing to out-perform the rest of the region.
One major mall in upstate New York notes that sales picked up
somewhat in September whereas another upstate mall indicates
that sales have been steady and roughly on par with 2012 levels.
Inventories are generally characterized as on plan. Prices are
generally described as somewhat more promotional than a year
ago.  Buffalo area auto dealers report that new vehicle sales were
steady and strong in August, running 13 percent ahead of a year
ago, while Rochester-area dealers report that sales accelerated
and were up more than 20 percent. While final numbers are not
yet tallied, sales are reported to have remained robust in
September. Sales of used automobiles have generally been soft.
Wholesale and retail credit conditions for auto purchases
continue to be characterized as favorable.  Tourism activity has shown increasing strength since the last
report. Manhattan hotels report that revenues were up 5-6
percent from a year earlier in September, following gains of 3-4
percent in both July and August. Occupancy rates remain above 90
percent--up nearly 2 percentage points from comparable 2012
levels--while room rates are up roughly 3 percent. Based on
bookings, October looks to be strong as well. Attendance at
Broadway theaters picked up noticeably in August and especially
in September. After running below 2012 levels for most of this
year, attendance was up 5-6 percent from a year ago in
September, and total revenues were up 10 percent--in part
reflecting some new shows opening.  Finally,  consumer confidence  in the region has improved since
the last report. The Conference Board’s survey of residents of
the Middle Atlantic states (NY, NJ, Pa) shows confidence surging
to a nearly six year high in September, while Siena College’s
survey of New York State residents points to a more moderate
increase.  Construction and Real Estate  Residential real estate markets in the District have been steady
to stronger since the last report. Buffalo-area contacts
continue to describe market conditions as robust in both August
and September, with brisk sales volume, moderately rising
prices, and continued reports of bidding wars. Sales activity in
New York City’s co-op and condo market was exceptionally brisk
in the third quarter--the highest since 2007 and the 2nd highest
in 24 years. Sales of smaller (one bedroom) apartments were
particularly strong. The inventory of available apartments for
sale has fallen to new lows, as completed transactions are
outnumbering the flow of new listings. Whereas  Manhattan  prices
have risen only modestly, prices for Brooklyn apartments are
reported to be up 10-15 percent over the past year. New York
City’s rental market has been mixed: while Manhattan rents have
stopped rising and are down slightly from a year ago, Brooklyn
rents have been rising at a more than 10 percent pace.  A contact in  New Jersey ’s housing industry reports continued
gradual improvement in market conditions. Prices continue to
rise modestly, held back by a persistent overhang of distressed
properties. The Jersey shore sales market remains tepid, with
prices still well below their pre-recession peaks-- particularly
in areas hard hit by Sandy last October.  Office markets were steady to stronger in the third quarter.
Manhattan’s vacancy rate declined to 7.3 percent--its lowest
level in more than four years--while asking rents continued to
rise, particularly on Class B properties.  Long Island ’s office
vacancy rate also edged down below 8 percent, though asking
rents were little changed. In the northern New Jersey and
Westchester/ Fairfield markets, however, vacancy rates were
unchanged at much higher levels, while asking rents were little
changed. A New Jersey real estate contact maintains that non-residential construction activity is almost strictly limited to
renovations and improvements on existing properties.  Other Business Activity  On balance, the labor market has shown further signs of
improving. One major employment agency reports broad-based
strength in hiring activity and notes increasing difficulty
finding qualified job candidates; more job-seekers are
reportedly getting multiple offers and there are now scattered
reports of salaries being bid up. Another contact, however,
reports more modest improvement and characterizes wage offers as
stable. Both contacts report particularly strong demand for IT
workers. One employment agency notes that the government
shutdown has hampered efforts to do background checks on
prospective employees, whereas another contact indicates this
has not been problematic thus far.  A contact in the finance sector characterizes the current
business climate as gloomy--hiring has reportedly been mixed,
with much of the demand focused on people in legal and
compliance fields. Manufacturing firms in the District report
some slowing in hiring activity, along with a pause in growth
more generally; these contacts are also less optimistic about
the near-term outlook. However, nonmanufacturing firms generally
indicate that both business and hiring activity have increased
modestly since the last report, though these contacts have also
become a bit less optimistic about the near term outlook and
also in their net hiring plans. Both manufacturers and other
firms report some pickup in input price pressures but little
change in their selling prices.  Financial Developments  Bankers reported weakening demand for consumer loans and
especially in residential mortgages but increased demand for
commercial mortgages. Demand for mortgage refinancing also
continued to decrease. Respondents reported no change in demand
for commercial & industrial loans. Credit standards were
unchanged across all loan categories. Respondents indicated a
narrowing in spreads of loan rates over costs of funds for
commercial loans and mortgages but no change in spreads for
consumer loans and residential mortgages. Finally, bankers
report further widespread declines in delinquency rates for all
loan categories.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 