-- U.S. Federal Reserve Beige Book: Kansas City District (Text)
-- B y   E d i t o r :   [ b n : P R S N = 2 5 3 2 4 5 9 ]   K r i s t y   S c h e u b l e   [ ]
-- 2013-10-16T18:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/u-s-federal-reserve-beige-book-kansas-city-district-text-.html
The following is the text of the
Federal Reserve Board’s Tenth District-- Kansas City.  TENTH DISTRICT - KANSAS CITY  The Tenth District economy expanded modestly in September after
growing at a slightly faster pace during the previous survey
period. Consumer spending slowed somewhat as a decrease in
automobile, restaurant and tourism sales was offset in part by
an increase in retail activity. Manufacturing activity grew
modestly, and expectations for future activity improved
substantially. Residential home sales and prices continued to
rise, but contacts anticipated a marginal decline in home sales
in the months ahead. Commercial real estate conditions continued
to improve, and additional gains were anticipated. Bankers
reported stronger overall loan demand, improved loan quality,
and stable deposit levels. District crop yields were expected to
be about average, but falling crop prices led to lower farm
income projections. Energy activity in the District remained
solid as natural gas drilling rigs increased slightly and the
number of oil rigs edged down in September. Wage pressures eased
somewhat since the last survey, and prices held steady for most
finished goods, while prices continued to rise moderately for
raw materials.  Consumer Spending  Consumer spending slowed somewhat in September as a decline in
automobile, restaurant and tourism sales was offset in part by
an increase in retail activity. Retail sales picked up since the
last survey, with appliance and lower-priced retail purchases
particularly strong. District retailers continued to expect
higher sales moving into the holiday shopping season. Automobile
sales declined in September, but were in line with expectations
and remained above year-ago levels. Small SUVs, cars and trucks
sold well, while large SUV sales were weak. Automobile dealers
expected stable sales in the coming months. Despite a slight
decline in restaurant sales in September, restaurant sales
remained significantly higher than year-ago levels, and
respondents were more optimistic about the next few months
compared to the last survey. Hotel occupancy rates fell and
tourism counts declined due in part to seasonal factors. A
couple of  Colorado  contacts also noted a decrease in restaurant
sales and tourism activity due to severe effects from the recent
flooding. Both occupancy rates and tourism were expected to
continue to decline over the next three months.  Manufacturing and Other Business Activity  Manufacturing activity rose modestly in September, while sales
at high-tech service firms experienced strong growth and
transportation activity edged up. Durable manufacturing
production, shipments and new orders increased moderately since
the last survey, while non-durable goods manufacturing activity
decreased marginally in September. Activity in the manufacturing
sector remained well above year-ago levels, and manufacturers’
expectations for future activity improved substantially.
Contacts expected strong growth for production, new orders and
shipments over the next six months. Capital spending in the
manufacturing sector was higher than a year ago and was expected
to increase further in the months ahead. Sales at high-tech
firms picked up in September after falling slightly during the
previous survey period. High-tech services contacts also
expected sales and capital spending to increase solidly in the
months ahead. Transportation firms reported a modest rise in
activity but did not expect additional gains in the coming
months.  Real Estate and Construction  Residential and commercial real estate activity remained strong
in September. District residential real estate sales increased
moderately and remained much higher than a year ago. Low to mid-priced homes continued to sell well, while higher priced home
sales remained sluggish. The pace of home sales was projected to
tick down over the next few months. Inventory levels held steady
at low levels and were constraining sales in some areas.
Residential home prices continued to rise across the District,
and additional price gains were expected over the next few
months as supported by lower anticipated inventories. Builders
reported a modest gain in home starts, and construction supply
firms expected stronger sales in the coming months. Residential
mortgage lenders noted that higher interest rates had led to
fewer refinances. Furthermore, they reported that increased
regulation had added costs and tightened lending conditions.
Commercial real estate construction rose, and commercial vacancy
rates declined further. Commercial real estate sales were
expected to pick up, and rents were expected to rise over the
next three months.  Banking  In the recent survey period, bankers reported stronger overall
loan demand, improved loan quality, and stable deposit levels.
Respondents reported increased demand for commercial and
industrial loans and commercial real estate loans, steady demand
for consumer installment loans, and decreased demand for
residential real estate loans. Many bankers reported improved
loan quality compared to a year ago, and nearly all bankers
expected the outlook for loan quality to either improve or
remain the same over the next six months. Credit standards
remained unchanged in all major loan categories, and respondents
reported stable deposits.  Agriculture  In the agriculture sector, crop production expectations were
little changed from the previous survey period, but falling
prices lowered farm income expectations. With most of the corn
and soybean crops still in relatively good condition, overall
District yields were expected to be about average. As harvest
began, however, a greater probability of near-record corn and
soybean production nationally led to a drop in prices, cutting
farm income expectations. Meanwhile, heavy rainfall in Colorado
and flooding along the South Platte River affected some
agricultural lowlands. Scattered storms slowed harvest activity
and winter wheat planting, but helped soil moisture conditions.
Lower feed prices narrowed losses for cattle feedlot operators
and improved profitability for hog producers. Weaker farm income
prospects were expected to curtail farm household and capital
spending, but demand for quality farmland remained strong.  Energy  District energy activity remained solid in September, and
expectations for the coming months improved slightly. Natural
gas drilling rigs for the District increased modestly in
September, particularly in Colorado and  Oklahoma , as gas prices
remained stable. District oil drilling rigs edged down over the
past month, with most of the decrease occurring in Oklahoma.
Respondents expected drilling to remain stable through the end
of the year as capital spending increases shift to midstream
business such as pipelines. Higher oil prices continue to make
oil drilling more attractive than natural gas exploration.  Looking forward, however, respondents expected oil prices to
drop and natural gas prices to rise in the coming months.
 Wyoming ’s coal production continued a moderate expansion from
the summer months, but remained below year-ago levels.  Wages and Prices  Wage pressures eased slightly in September, while prices rose
moderately for raw materials and held steady for most finished
goods. Labor shortages declined over the past month in most
sectors, and most contacts reported little wage pressure outside
specific skilled positions including technicians, software
developers, truck drivers, and engineers. Retailers reported a
small decline in prices and expected only modest price gains in
the months ahead. Restaurant contacts continued to report rising
food costs, but held menu prices flat. Average hotel room rates
declined as occupancy rates also fell. After an acceleration in
the pace of raw materials price increases in August,
manufacturers reported a slight moderation in the pace of price
increases in September. Manufacturers raised finished goods
prices modestly, and most contacts expected additional price
increases in the months ahead. Transportation firms held prices
steady despite higher input costs. Builders reported little
input cost pressures except for items experiencing a shortage.
One example noted was a shortage of concrete and equipment in
flooded Colorado areas. Commercial real estate prices and rents
were flat over the past month but remained higher than year-ago
levels. Residential home prices continued to rise, and
additional gains were expected in the months ahead.  SOURCE:  Federal Reserve Board
 