-- Murata Likely to Raise Toko Offer Price, Religare Says
-- B y   A n n a   K i t a n a k a   a n d   T o s h i r o   H a s e g a w a
-- 2013-10-16T06:59:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/murata-likely-to-raise-toko-offer-price-religare-says.html
Murata Manufacturing Co. (6981)  is likely
to raise its 300 yen a share takeover bid for  Toko Inc. (6801)  to as
high as 355 yen after the stock rallied above the initial tender
price, according to Religare Capital Markets Ltd.  Shares of Toko closed at 333 yen today, 11 percent above
the 300 yen bid made in February. Murata, which is aiming for a
66.6 percent stake in the maker of semiconductors and power
supplies, will need to increase its offer to ensure continued
support from Toko’s board, according to Lee Mitchell, Singapore-based special situations sales trader at Religare.  “We don’t expect Toko management will be able to maintain
their recommendation and Murata will need to bump considerably
to take control,” Mitchell wrote in a note to clients today,
advising them to buy the shares. “Another reason we think the
offer will be bumped is purely because of the language in the
offer announcement.”  Murata, a component supplier to Apple Inc. and Samsung
Electronics Co., announced three acquisitions in February to
expand its lineup and speed development. It’s already Toko’s
biggest shareholder at 9.8 percent, according to  data  compiled
by Bloomberg. Its offer of 300 yen per share represented a
premium of about 39 percent over Toko’s closing price on Feb.
13, the day the tender was made public.  Wording in the takeover statement from February, such as
the tender offer is “expected” to be 300 yen per share,
indicates both companies knew they would need to revisit the
price before finalizing the agreement, Mitchell said.  China Approval  Toko’s board members will have to re-recommend the offer to
shareholders after China’s Ministry of Commerce approves the
takeover, which could be “any day now,” according to Mitchell.
Over the next four to six weeks, there may be “heightened
activity” after permission is granted, he said. Government
approval is required as both companies sell products in the
country, he said.  Toko gets 41 percent of revenue from  China , making Asia’s
biggest economy its top  market . Murata counts on China and
 Taiwan  for 55 percent of sales.  “Now is the time to buy Toko,” Mitchell wrote. “We
believe Toko and Murata will agree a deal with a bump. The
magnitude of the bump is guesswork, but using the original 39
percent premium offered and then adding the move in the Topix
will give 350 yen to 355 yen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Kitanaka in Tokyo at 
 akitanaka@bloomberg.net ;
Toshiro Hasegawa in Tokyo at 
 thasegawa6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah McDonald at 
 smcdonald23@bloomberg.net  