-- Murderers Lose Right-to-Vote Dispute in Britain’s Highest Court
-- B y   J e r e m y   H o d g e s   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2013-10-16T10:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/murderers-lose-right-to-vote-dispute-in-britain-s-highest-court.html
Two convicted British murderers
can’t vote while in jail after the U.K. Supreme Court ruled it
didn’t infringe on their human rights.  “There can be no question about the United Kingdom’s
entitlement to deprive a prisoner in his position of the vote,”
Judge Jonathan Mance said in the written  ruling  today. George
McGeoch and Peter Chester are both serving life sentences for
murder in the U.K.  Prime Minister David Cameron, who told lawmakers in the
House of Commons last year that the thought of votes for
prisoners made him feel “sick,” said he welcomed today’s
decision by the London-based court.  “The Supreme Court judgment on prisoner voting is a great
victory for common sense,” Cameron said on his Twitter feed.  The premier is seeking to assert the supremacy of the U.K.
Parliament over European laws, both to appeal to euro-skeptic
lawmakers within his ruling Conservative Party, and as he
prepares to renegotiate the country’s membership of the European
Union if he retains power in 2015.  The European Court of Human Rights ruled in 2005 that a ban
on prisoners being able to vote was contrary to human-rights
law, while leaving it up to individual countries to decide who
should have the right to vote.  “Prisoners’ voting is an emotive subject,” Judge Brenda Hale said in the written ruling. “Some people feel very
strongly that prisoners should not be allowed to vote. It is not
surprising, therefore, that in February 2011 elected
parliamentarians also voted overwhelmingly against any
relaxation of the present law.”  Chester was sentenced to life in prison for the murder of
his niece in 1997. McGeoch was also charged with violently
escaping from prison while serving his life term.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeremy Hodges in London at 
 jhodges17@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  