-- Veeva IPO Generates 300-Fold Return for Emergence Capital
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-10-16T16:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/veeva-ipo-generates-300-fold-return-for-emergence-capital-1-.html
Amid all the hype around Twitter
Inc.’s initial public offering and the investors poised to
strike it rich, one of the year’s biggest venture capital wins
has nothing to do with hashtags.  Five years ago, Emergence  Capital Partners  made a $4
million investment in  Veeva Systems Inc. (VEEV) , a startup that
develops cloud software to help pharmaceutical companies manage
their sales operations. After Veeva’s debut today on the  New
York Stock Exchange (NYX) , the company was valued at $4.4 billion.
Emergence, Veeva’s biggest investor, owns a stake worth more
than $1.2 billion, a 300-fold return on its investment.  Assuming Veeva’s stock holds or increases its value until
insiders can start selling in six months, the gains will be more
than six times the size of the $200 million fund that Emergence
raised in 2007. That means big profits for the fund’s investors,
including the  California Public Employees’ Retirement System  and
the  University of Michigan , Bloomberg.com reported on its  Tech
Deals  blog.  Emergence is based in San Mateo, California -- halfway
between San Francisco and the epicenter of Silicon Valley’s Sand
Hill Road. The firm opened in the wake of the dot-com collapse
in 2003, when technology investing had practically evaporated.
It’s since raised $575 million over three funds.  Emergence’s partners were betting that businesses would
move from paying for software licenses to buying Web-based
services on a subscription basis. That was the only way
 business-software  startups could generate revenue, because
customers weren’t willing to pony up millions of dollars
upfront, Brian Jacobs, one of Emergence’s three founders, said
at a conference in July.  ‘Tough Times’  “In the very tough times of the bust, we saw that there
were companies that were succeeding and growing,” Jacobs said.  For its first investment, Emergence bought a $1 million
stake in Salesforce.com Inc. at about 40 cents a share (on a
split-adjusted basis) the year before founder  Marc Benioff  took
the company public. The stock closed yesterday at $50.72.  Salesforce pioneered the software-as-a-service, or SaaS,
model, a term that didn’t even exist when Emergence was scouring
the market for deals. The firm went on to back SuccessFactors
Inc., which SAP AG bought for $3.4 billion in February 2012, and
Yammer Inc., snapped up a few months later by Microsoft Corp.
for $1.2 billion. Other companies still in the portfolio include
Bill.com Inc., Box Inc. and Lithium Technologies Inc.  “Emergence deserves credit for betting their whole fund on
SaaS long before it was popular,” Yammer CEO David Sacks wrote
in an e-mail.  Specialized Software  Gordon Ritter, a partner at Emergence and the chairman of
Veeva’s board, said the company’s focus on a specific industry
burdened by legacy systems has led to its rapid growth.  “This company got to a substantial revenue rate on less
time and fewer dollars than any other company I’ve
experienced,” Ritter said today in an interview.  In March, Ritter likened Veeva to a Salesforce for the
pharmaceutical industry. While Benioff’s company provides Web-based software for people in all industries to manage customer
relationships, Veeva’s specialized tools have won over the drug
market because they can track prescribing habits and comply with
health-industry regulations.  “Marc Benioff and other general-purpose cloud leaders won
the first round, but industry-specific companies will win the
next,” he said at the time.  Large Competitors  In its prospectus, Veeva lists  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , Microsoft
Corp. and EMC Corp. among its competitors. Veeva is a fraction
of the size of any of those companies. Unlike most software
vendors at IPO time, Veeva is profitable, generating $6 million
in net income in the quarter that ended in July.  Emergence’s second fund was profitable, too -- even before
accounting for Veeva’s IPO. As of the end of March, investors in
the fund, which financed the Veeva deal, were seeing a 37
percent internal rate of return annually, according to an
investor’s report. Venture firms across Silicon Valley and
beyond have finally caught onto the potential for subscription-based business software.  “We had a lot more fun when everyone else was focused on
the consumer sector,” Jacobs said in July.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  