-- Veeva Soars in Market Debut on Demand for Cloud Software
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2013-10-16T20:14:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/veeva-soars-in-market-debut-on-demand-for-cloud-software.html
Veeva Systems Inc. (VEEV) , a maker of Web-based software for the medical industry, almost doubled in its
stock market debut after twice raising the price of its initial
public offering.  Veeva  climbed  86 percent to $37.16 at the close in  New York 
after earlier gaining as much as 98 percent. The company raised
$260.9 million yesterday in the third-biggest U.S. technology
IPO of the year, behind FireEye Inc. and Tableau Software Inc.  Investor demand for emerging business-software companies is
surging as businesses shift from traditional server-based
technology to products in the cloud. Veeva, based in Pleasanton,
California, is going after medical companies looking to switch
from  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and EMC Corp. products and sells to 33 of the
50 biggest pharmaceutical companies in the world, including Eli
Lilly & Co. and  Merck & Co. (MRK)   “We are moving people from client/server into the cloud,”
Chief Executive Officer Peter Gassner said today in an
interview. “The legacy systems can’t keep up. They’re years and
years behind.”  Veeva sold 13.05 million shares for $20 each yesterday. The
company first set the price at $12 to $14 earlier this month and
raised it to $16 to $18 before increasing it again.  Sales in the three months ended July 31 jumped 68 percent
to $49.6 million, Veeva said in its prospectus. Unlike most
newly public software companies, Veeva is profitable, recording
net income of $6 million in the period.  With today’s gains, Veeva is valued at about $4.5 billion.
The company’s biggest investor, Emergence  Capital Partners , owns
a 31 percent stake valued at about $1.3 billion.  Gassner co-founded the company after a two-year stint at
Salesforce.com Inc. He quickly decided to target the
pharmaceutical industry, betting that executives in this heavily
regulated sector would pay a premium for software that’s
compliant and simplifies documentation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in  San Francisco  at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Pui-Wing Tam at 
 ptam13@bloomberg.net  