-- Wall Street Expects Treasury to Pay Oct. 17 Bills, Sifma Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2013-10-16T17:20:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/wall-street-expects-treasury-to-pay-oct-17-bills-sifma-says.html
Bond-market participants expect the
U.S. Treasury to pay $120 billion of bills maturing tomorrow
regardless of whether a deal is approved to raise the debt
ceiling, according to Wall Street’s largest lobbying group.  “Every expectation would be that Treasury will make timely
payment tomorrow,” Rob Toomey, a managing director of the
Securities Industry & Financial Markets Association, said today
on a conference call. “The only way we would hear something
specific is if they were not going to pay, but every expectation
is that they will, so in that case, silence means they’re going
to pay their obligation that is due tomorrow.”  U.S. stocks  advanced and the yen weakened against all major
peers amid speculation lawmakers will agree on a deal to raise
the debt ceiling. House Speaker John Boehner will allow a vote
on a Senate agreement to end the government shutdown and extend
U.S. borrowing authority, Representative Kevin Brady of  Texas , a
senior House Republican, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television.  “No decision has been made about how or when a potential
Senate agreement could be voted on in the House,” Michael Steel, Boehner’s spokesman, said in a subsequent e-mailed
statement. For procedural reasons, if the House goes first, the
bill could reach President  Barack Obama ’s desk more quickly.  The U.S. sold $68 billion of four- and 52-week bills and of
189-day cash-management securities today in what may be the
Treasury’s last opportunity to bring in new cash under the debt
limit. Fitch Ratings put the government of the world’s biggest
economy on watch for a possible credit downgrade yesterday,
citing lawmakers’ inability to forge a deal.  The world’s largest money-market mutual fund managers,
including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) , Fidelity Investments and JPMorgan
Chase & Co., have shunned Treasuries maturing in the next few
weeks to avoid potentially being stuck with defaulted debt.  Rates on bills due Oct. 31 jumped yesterday to the highest
level since the securities were issued in May. The rate
increased 20 basis points, or 0.20 percentage point, to 0.51
percent, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The
securities traded at a rate of zero as recently as last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
 Christine Harper  at 
 charper@bloomberg.net  