-- Web Intrigue, Sex, Stabbing Rock Nico Muhly’s ‘Two Boys’
-- B y   Z i n t a   L u n d b o r g
-- 2013-10-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/web-intrigue-sex-stabbing-rock-nico-muhly-s-two-boys-.html
“This is a very old story of people
searching to be loved,” says Nico Muhly about “Two Boys,” which
opens at the Metropolitan Opera Oct. 21.  Directed by Bartlett Sher, the work is a co-production of
the Met and the  English National Opera , where it premiered in
2011.  With a libretto by Craig Lucas, “Two Boys” deals with sex,
violence and dark Internet intrigue. “It’s a modern thing that
uses the oldest operatic tropes,” explains the 32-year-old
composer.  We spoke during a break in rehearsals at the Metropolitan
Opera.  Lundborg: As I was watching all the activity on the stage,
I wondered what it must be like for you, whose fevered creative
neurons called it into being.  Muhly: I had a funny sort of out-of-body experience the
other day, watching the chorus, the dancers, the singers, the
crew -- it’s a lot of people. It’s an amazing, anxiety-provoking
feeling, but a nice one.  Lundborg: When you saw it at the ENO, how was it different
from the way you’d conceived it?  Muhly: I didn’t allow myself the pleasure of making too
many visual preconceptions, because that gets in the way of the
people who are staging it.  It was a very deep and complicated realization of the
emotional content of the piece, which is really what I care
about.  Met Input  Lundborg: During the Met rehearsals, do they welcome your
input?  Muhly: Totally.  Lundborg: So you’re not like the writer on a film shoot?  Muhly: In opera, the score is the ur-text of the project.  Lundborg: What changes did you make from the first
production?  Muhly: The big thing we did was reverse the beginnings of
the two acts -- I just picked them up with a spatula. We simply
had to follow the threads through.  We also gave a little more music to the detective in the
interest of deepening her backstory.  Lundborg: “Dark Sisters” is about Mormon women and “Two
Boys” deals with sex and identity on the web. What attracts you
to a subject?  Reality Show  Muhly: I’ve always thought reality is better than making
something up -- it’s so much crazier. I like things where the
emotional content is linked to something loosely political
-- and at the same time, it’s not clear-cut, and not moralistic.  Lundborg: You’re famously prolific. How do you manage your
time?  Muhly: Most of the composers whose music I really like were
employees of church or state, like Bach, Gibbons, Byrd, Tallis.
They had to just keep composing.  I’ll write from seven a.m. to four, or ten to eight. It
depends. The earlier I get up, the better it is.  Lundborg: Then how do you keep your hipster cred?  Muhly: Sometimes I’m monastically always in, but sometimes
I’m just out all the time.  Lundborg: On your  blog , you talk about Lent and Advent. Are
you religious?  Liturgical Year  Muhly: I was raised in an interesting dual family -- half
Jewish and half Lutheran, but when I was 11 I started singing in
an Anglican boys choir. I quickly realized that was the music I
deeply connected to.  I do the year liturgically as a way of organizing my time.
It’s more beautiful.  Lundborg: What are you working on now?  Muhly: I’m writing a 40-minute piece for Iestyn Davies and
chamber orchestra. I’m at the part right now where I have a
piece of paper that says Iestyn on it.  I have it on my desk and I look at it every morning.  Lundborg: You’re included in the chapter on prodigies in
Andrew Solomon’s “Far From the Tree.” He says brilliance can be
a big impediment to intimacy. Do you agree?  Muhly: I don’t think I’m particularly brilliant -- or
particularly intimate.  “Two Boys” runs through Nov. 14 at the Met. Information:
+1-212-362-6000;  http://www.metoperafamily.org .  Muse highlights include Ryan Sutton on  dining  and Philip
Boroff on  theater .  (Zinta Lundborg is an editor for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.
This interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Zinta Lundborg at 
 zlundborg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 