-- Wind Power in Poor Regions May Increase U.S. Access to Financing
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2013-10-16T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/wind-power-in-poor-regions-may-increase-u-s-access-to-financing.html
Wind farms may become more
attractive to investors because of new guidance that increases
the number of banks that may participate in tax-equity
financing, according to an industry group.  The U.S. Treasury’s Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency now permits national banks and federal savings
associations to make tax-equity investments in wind farms that
are in low-income regions and provide a public benefit,
according to the  American Wind Energy Association .  Federal bank regulators last month approved guidelines for
banks and developers to back wind farms under Public Welfare
Investment authority, a policy that’s also used to finance low-income housing. That opens the door to more than 50 banks, up
from about a dozen that currently participate in the tax-equity
market, said Paul Holshouser, finance policy manager for the
Washington-based trade group.  “There’s an untapped source of funds that we can access,”
Holshouser said yesterday in an interview. “Our goal is to
bring in new banks so that tax-equity yields come down.”  Many developers don’t have enough taxable income to use all
of their wind farms’ tax credits and sell equity stakes to large
backers that apply a portion of the credit to their own tax
bills.  Allowing more banks to participate in the tax-equity market
will reduce costs for developers, Holshouser said. It may also
create a secondary market for current investors to sell stakes
to the new banks, freeing up capital for new projects.  “In  Texas , about half the existing projects could qualify
for this,” Holshouser said.  The U.S. has more than 60 gigawatts of wind-energy capacity
in operation, mostly in Texas, California and  Iowa . That’s
enough to supply about 14.7 million homes, AWEA said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in  New York  at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  