-- Won Trades Near 9-Month High as U.S. Talks to Resume; Bonds Fall
-- B y   Y e w o n   K a n g
-- 2013-10-16T01:47:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/won-trades-near-9-month-high-as-u-s-talks-to-resume-bonds-fall.html
South Korea ’s won traded within 0.2
percent of the highest level since January after U.S. Senate
leaders said they would restart talks to raise the nation’s debt
limit.  Government bonds  declined.  Senators are optimistic an agreement is “within reach,”
said a spokesman for Majority Leader  Harry Reid . South Korea’a
adjusted jobless rate fell to 3 percent in September, the lowest
since December 2012, official data showed today. Overseas
investors  bought  more local equities than they sold for the 34th
day, according to exchange data. Daewoo Shipbuilding & Marine
Engineering Co. received a 1.33 trillion won ($1.2 billion)
order, the company said in a regulatory filing.  “Traders are cautious until the U.S. debt talks result in
a deal,” said Han Sung Min, a currency trader at Busan Bank in
Seoul. “We expect some dollar supplies from shipbuilders, which
may support the won.”  The currency fell 0.1 percent to 1,068.05 per dollar as of
10:14 a.m. in Seoul, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It
earlier touched 1,066.25, the strongest level since Jan. 24.
One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, dropped nine basis points
to 6.61 percent.  South Korea will take action to curb foreign exchange
volatility if needed, the  Finance Ministry  said in a report
prepared for parliamentary audit today. The government will
strengthen monitoring of financial markets and its focus on the
U.S. debt-ceiling negotiations, the report added.  With the U.S.’s borrowing authority set to lapse tomorrow,
Senate leaders said they would reopen talks after the House
delayed voting on a plan stripped of Republican conditions to
resume funding to the government and increase the debt ceiling.
 Fitch Ratings  put the world’s biggest economy on watch for a
possible credit downgrade, citing the inability to forge a deal.  The yield on South Korea’s 2.75 percent sovereign notes due
June 2016 climbed two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
2.9 percent, the highest level since Sept. 13, according to
Korea Exchange Inc. prices.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yewon Kang in Seoul at 
 ykang51@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  