-- WTI Oil Falls After Biggest Gain in Week as Stocks Rise
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2013-10-17T13:18:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/wti-little-changed-after-gaining-most-in-week-on-u-s-debt-deal.html
West Texas Intermediate retreated
following the biggest rise in a week as crude stockpiles
increased in the U.S., the world’s largest oil consumer.  Futures dropped as much as 1.3 percent after advancing 1.1
percent yesterday. U.S. crude supplies climbed by 5.94 million
barrels last week, according to the industry-funded  American
Petroleum Institute . Prices rose the most since Oct. 10
yesterday as U.S. lawmakers agreed to end a 16-day government
shutdown and extended the nation’s borrowing authority until
early next year. President  Barack Obama  signed the measure into
law.  “It was a huge stock build reported by the API, that was
quite bearish,” said Torbjoern Kjus, a senior oil analyst at
DnB ASA in Oslo. Prices are also weakening as the  U.S. debt 
accord is “a short-term fix, just kicking the can down the
road,” he said.  WTI for November delivery fell as much as $1.36 to $100.93
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $100.87 at 9:10 a.m.  New York  time.  North Sea Brent for December settlement slid $1.01 to
$109.58 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The November contract expired yesterday after rising
90 cents, or 0.8 percent, to $110.86. The volume of all Brent
futures traded was about 43 percent below the 100-day average.  Brent Premium  December Brent crude was at a premium of $8.45 to the
equivalent-month WTI contract, the narrowest since Oct. 9 for a
front-month. The gap between November contracts was $8.57
yesterday.  U.S. gasoline inventories dropped by 2.21 million barrels
last week, according to the API in  Washington . Distillate
supplies, including heating oil and diesel, declined by 1.32
million barrels. The Energy Information Administration, the
Energy Department’s statistical arm, won’t release weekly
stockpile data today because of the government shutdown.  WTI fell to a three-month low of $100.60 a barrel in
intraday trading on Oct. 11 amid concern a default would
undermine the  U.S. economy  and reduce fuel demand. The latest
legislation will put federal workers back on the job, prevent a
potential default on U.S. debt and make no major policy changes
sought by Republicans. Lawmakers didn’t resolve their long-term
divides on fiscal policy and will have to return to the same
issues over the next four months.  Government Deal  The Republican-controlled  House of Representatives  voted
285-144 to clear the bill, less than three hours after the
Democratic Senate passed the measure, 81-18. The U.S. will
account for about 21 percent of global oil consumption this
year, the International Energy Agency estimates.  Iran  and world powers will hold another round of
negotiations next month over the Persian Gulf country’s nuclear
program after concluding two days of discussions in Geneva. The
government in Tehran is calling on the U.S. and European Union
to ease sanctions that have battered its economy and curbed its
crude exports.  U.S. and European diplomats said the negotiations, the
first since Hassan Rouhani was elected president and pledged to
repair Iran’s global standing, went into more detail than
previous rounds and took place in a more constructive
atmosphere. Specialists will meet on technical and sanctions-related aspects of the proposals before Nov. 7, when talks will
resume.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  