-- WTI Crude Climbs After U.S. Senate Reaches Budget Accord
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2013-10-16T20:52:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/wti-fluctuates-near-three-month-low-on-u-s-debt-iran.html
West Texas Intermediate crude rose
after Senate leaders reached a deal to increase the U.S. debt
ceiling and end the government shutdown.  Futures gained 1.1 percent on the agreement between Senate
Majority Leader  Harry Reid  and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell 
that will extend U.S. borrowing authority, which would otherwise
lapse tomorrow. House Speaker  John Boehner , a Republican, said
in a statement that his party won’t block the Senate compromise.
Both houses plan to vote on the deal later today. The biggest
remaining question is how quickly the deal could become law.  “The Senate agreement and signals that it will be allowed
on the House floor are sending prices higher,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
 Stamford , Connecticut. “We should continue moving higher unless
there’s a headline pointing to the  House Republicans  not
allowing a vote.”  WTI crude for November delivery climbed $1.08 to settle at
$102.29 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . The
contract declined 1.2 percent to $101.21 yesterday, the lowest
settlement since July 2. The volume of all futures traded was 25
percent above the 100-day average at 4:37 p.m.  Price gains eased after the  American Petroleum Institute 
reported inventories rose 5.94 million barrels last week. The
November contract advanced 99 cents, or 1 percent, to $102.20 a
barrel in electronic trading at 4:39 p.m. It was at $102.24
before the report was released at 4:30 p.m.  Brent Contract  Brent oil for November settlement, which expired today,
increased 90 cents, or 0.8 percent, to end the session at
$110.86 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe
exchange. The more-active December contract gained $1.17, or 1.1
percent to $110.59. Volume was 7.5 percent higher than the 100-day average.  The front-month European benchmark traded at a $8.57
premium to WTI at today’s close, down from $8.75 yesterday.  The agreement reached by Reid, a Nevada Democrat, and
McConnell, a Kentucky Republican, will fund the government
through Jan. 15 and suspend the debt limit to Feb. 7, 15,
setting up another confrontations then.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  surged 1.4 percent.  Moving Together  “Equities and crude oil are moving in lockstep,” said
Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in Chicago. “As equity prices push high, you start
to see crude move up as well.”  The accord was unveiled a day after  Fitch Ratings  put the
U.S. AAA credit grade on ratings watch negative, citing the
government’s inability to raise the debt ceiling in a timely
manner, according to a statement after New York markets closed.
The U.S. will account for 21 percent of global oil demand this
year, according to the  International Energy Agency .  “Negative revisions to both U.S. and global GDP are likely
as a result of the fiasco in  Washington ,” said Michael Peterson, managing director and senior equity analyst at MLV &
Co. in Houston.  Four of the 12 Federal Reserve districts reported slower
growth while eight others said the expansion held steady amid
“uncertainty” stemming from the U.S. fiscal deadlock, the
central bank said today. Growth remained “modest to moderate,”
the Fed said today in its Beige Book business survey.  Government Data  The U.S. Energy Information Administration won’t release
weekly inventory data this week because of the government
shutdown. The EIA is the Energy Department’s statistical arm.  “The EIA has halted operations, which will make it more
difficult to look at what’s going on in the U.S. oil market in
the short term,” said Julius Walker, global energy markets
strategist at UBS Securities LLC in New York. “We still have
market prices and the API to look at.”  Iran  and world powers will hold another round of
negotiations next month, a sign that compromises offered by the
country over its nuclear program are being taken seriously.  A new round of talks will take place on Nov. 7-8, the sides
said in a statement issued after two days of meetings in Geneva.
While European Union foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton  and
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif said they wouldn’t
be revealing details of the discussions, both underscored a
changed atmosphere from previous negotiations.  Geneva Talks  The discussions in Geneva were the first since Iran’s new
president, Hassan Rouhani, and President  Barack Obama  spoke by
phone last month in the highest-level contact between the
countries since the 1979  Islamic Revolution .  Sanctions imposed over the nuclear program have hindered
Iran’s ability to export oil. Iran, the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries’ second-biggest producer in June
2012, was in sixth place last month, according to a Bloomberg
survey of companies, producers and analysts.  Implied volatility for at-the-money WTI options expiring in
December was 20.6 percent, down from 21.6 percent from
yesterday, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 701,774
contracts as of 4:38 p.m. It totaled 593,836 contracts
yesterday, 2.6 percent higher than the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.82 million contracts, the least since Aug. 22.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in  New York  at   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  