-- Yandex Movie Gambit Widens Gap to Baidu: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2013-10-17T05:26:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/yandex-movie-gambit-widens-gap-to-baidu-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX) ,  Russia ’s biggest Internet
company, advanced to a record in New York, widening its premium
over China’s  Baidu Inc. (BIDU)  on prospects the purchase of a movie-rating site will cement its lead in the search market.  Shares of Yandex climbed 1.9 percent yesterday to $39.31,
the highest since its 2011 debut. The company is trading at 34.7
times earnings, 18 percent above Baidu’s multiple, the biggest
gap in a month. The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index of the
most-traded Russian companies in the U.S. rallied to an eight-month high in New York, led by  VimpelCom Ltd (VIP)  and  OAO Gazprom. (OGZPY) 
 RTS  stock-index  futures (VEA)  gained in U.S. hours.  Yandex, which gets most of its revenue from online
advertising, bought the KinoPoisk movie-rating site on Oct. 15.
The Russian company increased its share of the online search
market to 62.2 percent last month, the highest since August
2011, while Google Inc.’s portion was unchanged at 26 percent,
according to LiveInternet.ru. Baidu has made five acquisitions
over the past year to maintain its lead among  China ’s Internet
companies as Qihoo 360 Technology Co. gains ground.  “Yandex deserves a premium rating in my book because it
has better earnings growth,” Julian Rimmer, a trader with CF
Global Trading UK Ltd. in London, said by e-mail yesterday.
“They are successfully monetizing different business lines.”  Baidu, China’s second-largest Internet company by market
value after Hong Kong-listed Tencent Holdings Ltd., paid $1.85
billion for app store 91 wireless in July and bought a stake in
group-deal site Nuomi.com for $160 million in August. The
Beijing-based company also acquired video business PPStream Inc.
for $370 million in June to merge it with its video unit
iQiyi.com, which it purchased in November.  ‘First Step’  Yandex could have paid as much as $95 million for
KinoPoisk, the nation’s biggest Russian-language website on
movies with 18.6 million users, the Wall Street Journal
reported, citing unnamed industry experts and analysts.  “The acquisition of KinoPoisk, which is the Russian
version on IMDb.com and one of the most popular websites on the
Russian Internet, is probably just a first step as Yandex may be
expanding into the video segment of the market,”  Anna Lepetukhina , an analyst at OAO Sberbank, Russia’s largest
lender, said by phone from Moscow yesterday. “It will probably
seek to offer video content, which would allow it to sell video-based ads, which have higher price tags than text-based ads.”  Internet advertising  in Russia will grow an average 26
percent annually from 2013 to 2015, Yandex said in a June
 presentation  citing ZenithOptimedia data. Online ad revenue will
rise to account for 30 percent of total ad sales by 2015 in
Russia, the data showed, compared with an estimated 27 percent
for China.  Quarterly Earnings  Yandex’s valuation premium over Baidu will increase, Rimmer
said. The gap reached 52 percent in July, before plunging to 6
percent earlier this month, the narrowest premium since August
2012, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Yandex will say third-quarter adjusted net income rose 42 percent when it  reports 
earnings Oct. 24, according to the average estimate of three
analysts collated by Bloomberg.  “Yandex succeeded in becoming the market leader in Russia,
beating Google,” Mattias Westman, chief executive officer of
Prosperity Capital Management, said by e-mail from London. His
firm manages about $4 billion and is the world’s largest Russia-focused money manager. “Hardly anyone has done this.”  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the largest dedicated
Russian exchange-traded fund, climbed 1.1 percent to a four-week
high of $29.67 in New York yesterday. Futures expiring in June
on the RTS gained 0.2 percent to 150,530. The RTS Volatility
Index, which measures expected swings in the  stock futures ,
slipped 1.4 percent to 23.68.  VimpelCom rallied 4 percent to $12.87 yesterday, the
highest level since July 2011, with trading volume 2.5 times the
average daily level for the past three months, data compiled by
Bloomberg show.  Gazprom added 2.2 percent to $9.82, the highest level since
Jan. 14, on its third day of advances.  United Co. Rusal (486) , a Moscow-based aluminum producer, was
unchanged at HK$2.30 at 1:23 p.m. local time in Hong Kong
trading after gaining as much as 1.3 percent. The MSCI Asia
Pacific Index climbed 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  