-- Yara Falls as Nordea Downgrades to Hold on Urea Drop: Oslo Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   T r e l o a r
-- 2013-10-16T10:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/yara-falls-as-nordea-downgrades-to-hold-on-urea-drop-oslo-mover.html
Yara International ASA (YAR) , the largest
publicly traded  nitrogen-fertilizer  maker, fell in Oslo after
Nordea Bank AB cut its rating on the stock to hold on weaker
urea prices and amid uncertainty about Chinese export taxes.  The Oslo-based company fell  as much as  2.7 percent to 236.1
kroner and traded 2.6 percent lower as of 12:10 p.m. in the
Norwegian capital. That makes Yara the  biggest decliner  on the
Oslo stock exchange’s OBX index of 25 most-traded stocks.  “Yara’s third-quarter results will be affected by lower
prices and some short-term negative effects following the
closure of the Bunge acquisition,” Andre Holoe Adolfsen, an
analyst at Nordea, said in a note. Uncertainty related to
Chinese export taxes will limit an increase in urea prices from
low levels in the third quarter, wrote the analyst, who cut his
 rating  on the stock to hold from buy and reduced his price
target to 260 kroner from 300 kroner.  Yara, in which the Norwegian government owns a  36 percent
stake , is facing lower prices for its nitrogen fertilizer amid
increased urea exports from  China . The company’s upstream
operations convert natural gas and nitrogen into ammonia, which
forms the basis for all nitrogen fertilizer.  “Value-add fertilizer products make up most of Yara’s
 revenue  and we expect these margins to improve and hold off some
of the price pressure on urea,” wrote Adolfsen, who estimates
Yara will report earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and
amortization of about 3.1 billion kroner ($515.2 million) for
the quarter. That compares with the 3.2 billion kroner average
of 15 estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Urea prices have fallen about  28 percent  to $305 a metric
ton since Feb. 4, according to Green Markets prices compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Treloar in Oslo at 
 streloar1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net  