-- Ziggo Turns Down Liberty Global’s Takeover Bid as Too Low
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2013-10-17T10:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-10-16/ziggo-said-it-rejected-liberty-global-s-preliminary-takeover-bid.html
Ziggo NV (ZIGGO) , the Dutch cable-television
provider, rejected a takeover proposal from shareholder  Liberty
Global  Plc in a setback for billionaire  John Malone ’s European
expansion plan.  Calling Liberty Global’s preliminary offer “inadequate,”
Ziggo said yesterday in a statement it’s uncertain whether it
will receive any improved bid. The offer was made in August,
Liberty Global said in a company filing. Germany’s Manager
Magazin reported yesterday that Liberty Global was seeking to
buy the rest of the cable company, prompting the disclosures.  Ziggo jumped 6.7 percent yesterday in Amsterdam to 31.20
euros for its biggest gain in more than six months. The company
has a market value of 6.2 billion euros ($8.4 billion). Liberty
Global held a 28.5 percent stake in the Utrecht-based company as
of July 25, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  Liberty Global is extending its reach in Europe, acquiring
the U.K.’s Virgin Media Inc. for about $16 billion this year.
Liberty Global had also attempted to buy  Kabel Deutschland
Holding AG (KD8) , a German cable company, before being outbid by
 Vodafone Group Plc. (VOD)   Justin Dini, a Liberty Global spokesman, declined to
comment beyond Liberty’s filing. The stock was little changed at
$76.88 in New York.  Largest Operator  Today, Ziggo fell 1.7 percent to 30.66 euros at 12:08 p.m.
in Amsterdam.  Ziggo, which will be led by  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s Rene Obermann when he leaves the German carrier next year, started
trading in March 2012. The product of a merger of Dutch cable
rivals Multikabel, Casema and Kabelcom, Ziggo is now the largest
operator in the Netherlands. Ziggo has 2.8 million digital-TV
subscribers to  Royal KPN NV (KPN) ’s 1.8 million, according their
websites.  Liberty Global (LBTYA)  bought a 12.7 percent holding in Ziggo from
Barclays Plc in March for 25 euros a share. It boosted the stake
to 28.5 percent in July. Liberty Global already operates in the
Netherlands through its UPC Broadband Holding BV unit.  Liberty Global Chief Executive Officer Mike Fries said last
week the company was “happy” with its current ownership stake
and that “the position we have now is strategic.” He declined
to say if or when Liberty Global would add to its stake.  Ziggo’s share price divided by adjusted earnings per share,
a measure of how expensive a stock is, is 19.4, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg using trailing 12-month numbers. That
compares to an industry average of 17.3.  Also yesterday, billionaire  Carlos Slim ’s America Movil SAB
said it withdrew a 7.2 billion-euro offer for shares of Royal
KPN NV after talks broke down with the biggest Dutch phone
carrier.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  