-- ‘Facebook Effect’ Shows California’s Reliance on Capital-Gains Taxes
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s   a n d   J a m e s   N a s h
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/-facebook-effect-shows-california-s-reliance-on-capital-gains.html
The potential for  California (STOCA1)  to see
a tax windfall from a Facebook Inc. public stock offering this
year demonstrates how much the state relies on capital-gains
taxes, a volatile revenue stream that hampers its  credit rating .  Menlo Park ,  California-based Facebook , the world’s most-
used social-networking site, is considering the largest initial
public offering for an  Internet company  on record, a person
familiar with the plans said last year. Estimated at $10
billion, the offering would make instant millionaires of company
employees and require the state to adjust its revenue forecast
to reflect additional capital-gains taxes they’d pay, the
state’s legislative analyst said yesterday.  That kind of unanticipated boost shows the boom-and-bust
cycle that capital gains taxes often inflict on  California ’s
budget. In fact, capital-gains tax revenue as a percentage of
the state’s general fund plummeted from 12 percent to just 3
percent between 2007 and 2009 as investors pulled away from the
stock market, a decline of $9.3 billion, according to state
finance department figures.  “It is a significant concern,” said Gabriel Petek, an
analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , which ranks California’s credit
the worst among its peers at A-. “It’s probably one of the
things that presents a structural impediment to the rating and
makes it hard for the state’s credit rating to move up into the
AA range that the typical state is.”  $96 Billion  Governor  Jerry Brown  proposed a budget that assumes
California taxpayers will earn $96 billion in capital gains in
2012, more than three times as much as at the height of the
recession in 2009. He also estimates that the state will take in
$8.6 billion in taxes on those capital gains, about 9 percent of
general fund revenue.  California isn’t alone in its reliance on  capital gains .
New York in the fiscal year that ended March 31 collected about
$2 billion from taxes on capital gains, or about 3 percent of
total tax collections, according to figures provided by the
state comptroller’s office. Wall Street-related activities
accounted for about 14 percent of total state collections.  Brown’s $92.6 billion spending plan assumes voters pass
temporary increases in sales and income taxes in November. If
voters reject the taxes, the lack of revenue would trigger $4.8
billion in cuts to schools. Even with the higher tax rates, the
most populous state would cut $4.2 billion from social programs
such as welfare-to-work and health insurance for the poor under
the proposed budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1.  Income Taxes  Income taxes on individuals accounted for 43.5 percent of
California’s tax revenue in 2010, the ninth-highest proportion
among states, according to U.S. Census Bureau data. The national
average was 33.5 percent. The bureau didn’t distinguish capital
gains from other kinds of income.  When  Google Inc. (GOOG)  went public in August 2004, selling 19.6
million shares for $1.67 billion, it made billionaires out co-
founders  Larry Page  and  Sergey Brin .  Capital-gains earnings in the state jumped 49 percent the
year after that offering. Within two years, taxes on those
earnings accounted for 11 percent of the budget, up from 8
percent, according to Finance Department figures.  California revenue forecasters assume that at least a few
companies will float offerings each year. At least 14 other Web-
related companies, including San Francisco-based Yelp Inc., are
considering IPOs totaling $11 billion this year, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  The size of Facebook’s possible offering, which would value
the company at about $100 billion, makes it unique in terms of
its impact of revenue forecasts, Legislative Analyst Mac Taylor
said.  ‘Sheer Size’  “It’s just the sheer size of it,” Taylor said in a
question-and-answer session with reporters yesterday. “It could
be huge.”  Jonathan Thaw, a Facebook spokesman, declined to comment on
the company’s plans.  Brown’s budget assumes that reductions in marginal tax
rates permitted by President  George W. Bush  in 2001 and 2003
will be allowed to expire at the end of this year and that
higher-income earners would accelerate their capital gains into
this year to take advantage of the lower  tax rate .  Brown also counts a portion of capital gains expected in
2013 this year instead, assuming that investors will try to
shield income from higher Medicare taxes scheduled to take
effect next year.  Taylor hasn’t made either of those assumptions in his
forecast and estimates that capital gains income will reach $64
billion this year. He said he’s concerned Brown’s method of
forecasting high-income filers’ income -- especially capital
gains -- overestimates state revenue growth.  “We can’t predict taxpayer behavior,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net 
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  