-- `Just Like China’ Before Wage Surge Lures Bra Maker to Cambodia
-- B y   D e x t e r   R o b e r t s
-- 2012-01-12T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/-just-like-china-before-wage-surge-lures-bra-maker-to-cambodia.html
Workers at  Top Form International
Ltd. ’s newest  Cambodia  plant are painting a long line of
latrines on a December morning. Rows of sewing machines sit idle
in a dimly lit warehouse, while next door 150 18-year-old women
learn how to sew bras on used Singer Sewing Co. machines.  Chairman Willie Fung has big plans for the factory on Phnom
Penh’s outskirts: By the end of 2012, 1,200 workers will produce
80,000 bras a month for sale to the U.S. and  Europe . Eventually,
this Southeast Asian nation of 14.7 million people could account
for one-third of Top Form’s output.  “Cambodia is just like China was 20 years ago. It’s on the
verge of a big expansion,” says Fung, a 40-year veteran of the
business who may open more factories outside Phnom Penh. Hong
Kong-based Top Form, which supplies New York-based Warnaco Group
Inc. and  Japan ’s  Wacoal Holdings Corp. (3591) , has reduced its China
production from 65 percent of total output three years ago to
just over 50 percent now. It could drop to just one-third.  “In Cambodia, people are happy to have a job,” says Fung.
“But in China we keep losing workers. Whether we like it or
not, we will be moving out.”  Top Form is one of hundreds of textile manufacturers
diversifying beyond China, the world’s No. 1 apparel producer,
Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Jan. 16 issue. Cambodia is
one popular destination along with  Vietnam ,  Bangladesh , and
 Indonesia . Their combined share of exports to rich countries
rose to 17.3 percent in 2010 from 12 percent in 2004, according
to  Clothesource Limited , an Oxford, U.K.-based consulting
company.  Lower Wages  The countries all have young people willing to work for
less. In Cambodia, that means $76 for a 60-hour workweek.
Chinese workers get from $280 in Jiangxi province to $460 in
Shenzhen. That’s take-home pay in his factory for 48 hours work,
including overtime, says Fung.  While in 2010, China produced 43.6 percent of rich
countries’ apparel imports, that number shrank to 36.8 percent
in the first half of last year, estimates Clothesource. The
stronger yuan, stricter enforcement of environmental rules, and
rising wages are pushing production out. “Chinese workers are
ever more demanding,” says Willy Lin, chairman of the  Hong Kong 
Textile Assn.  China’s factory wages have risen 18 percent to 20 percent
annually over the last three years, while staff turnover is
running at 10 percent monthly, estimates the  Federation of Hong
Kong Industries . On Dec. 30, Shenzhen labor officials announced
a 13.6 percent increase in the monthly  minimum wage , to 1,500
yuan ($237).  ‘Gypsy Factory’  According to the Hong Kong federation, smaller margins mean
that one-third of the estimated 60,000 Hong Kong-financed makers
of textiles, electronics, and toys in China’s  Pearl River Delta 
will have to shut down or move abroad. “If you are very low-
cost, very soon you will have to become a gypsy factory,” says
Roy C.P. Chung, the federation’s chairman.  In the past year, Cambodia’s textile industry has taken
off. On the outskirts of  Phnom Penh , trucks carrying workers
from new plants clog highways. Exports by about 300 licensed
textile factories grew to $3.3 billion in the first 10 months of
last year, up 35 percent, according to the Garment Manufacturers
Association in Cambodia. An additional 2,000 to 3,000 textile
factories are subcontractors to the licensed plants.  China’s infrastructure and supplier network still beat
Cambodia’s handily. In Cambodia, “everything is imported --
even the sewing needles and thread,” says David Tan Kok Ngan,
director of Best Tan Garment, a jeans and cargo pants supplier
for Inditex SA’s Zara and other brands. Tan says parts take one
week by ship from Hong Kong and two weeks from  Shanghai . Even
Top Form intends to keep making its priciest products in  China .  As in China, workers in Cambodia are showing a proclivity
to strike. More seriously, other low-cost countries are vying
for plants, too. “The challenge is if another country can pay
salaries cheaper than Cambodia -- maybe Myanmar,” says Tan.
“We don’t know what will happen tomorrow.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dexter Roberts in Beijing at 
 droberts34@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Power at 
 cpower3@bloomberg.net  