-- ADM May Take $360 Million Loss After Ending Metabolix Venture
-- B y   S h r u t i   S i n g h
-- 2012-01-12T22:29:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/adm-may-take-360-million-loss-after-ending-metabolix-venture.html
Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) , the
world’s largest grain processor, will take a pretax charge of as
much as $360 million in its fiscal second quarter after deciding
to end a bio-plastics joint venture with  Metabolix Inc. (MBLX)   The companies’ alliance will end Feb. 8 because its
financial returns are “too uncertain,” Decatur, Illinois-based
ADM said in a statement today. ADM will dissolve Telles LLC,
created with Metabolix to sell Mirel, a bio-plastic.  “We have analyzed our business portfolio, identifying
areas that are not delivering sufficient results now or are not
expected to deliver sufficient results within a reasonable
timeframe,” Mark Bemis, president of ADM’s corn unit, said in
the statement.  ADM, which trades, transports and processes corn and other
agricultural commodities, said yesterday it plans to cut about
1,000 jobs, or about 3 percent of its workforce, to reduce
costs. Its announcement came a day after rival trader Cargill
Inc. posted an 88 percent drop in fiscal second-quarter profit,
citing “challenges” in commodity markets.  ADM has been producing Mirel at its corn-processing plant
in Clinton,  Iowa , where it has about 90 full-time employees. ADM
is deciding the future of the plant, David Weintraub, a company
spokesman, said in an interview today.  “We are disappointed by ADM’s decision,”Richard Eno,
chief executive officer of Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
Metabolix, said in a statement.  “We now have proven the technology at industrial scale and
believe that we now have the opportunity to launch this business
with a different business model.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Singh in Chicago at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  