-- Aerowatt Surges on Acquisition Talks With Swiss Utility
-- B y   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-01-12T13:45:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/aerowatt-surges-on-acquisition-talks-with-kleinkraftwerk-birseck.html
Aerowatt (ALWAT) , a developer of wind and
solar power projects, surged to its highest value in more than
three years in Paris trading after reporting it may be acquired
by the Swiss regional utility  Kleinkraftwerk Birseck AG. (KKBN)   The French company, which operates 123 megawatts in
renewable energy capacity, is in exclusive talks with the Swiss
group over a deal that would value it at about 38.9 million
euros ($49.7 million), it said today in an e-mailed statement.
This would amount to 19.77 euros per share or a 54.5 percent
premium to its previous closing price of 12.80 euros, it said.  Aerowatt shares surged as much as 54 percent in Paris
trading today and were up 50 percent, the most intraday since
November 2006, to 19.14 euros at 2:06 p.m. local time.  The company’s main shareholders include  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,
Demeter Partners and Viveris Management. Those shareholders
would support the transaction, which they aim to complete in the
first half of 2012, Aerowatt said.  “The numerous and profound changes in the French
regulation for renewable energies has forced us to review our
development plans and seek an alliance with an industrial
partner,” said Jerome Billerey, Aerowatt’s board chairman.  The combined group would operate more than 158 megawatts in
renewable energy. Through the group, Kleinkraftwerk Birseck said
it would seek to accelerate the development of mini-hydro, wind
and solar plants in Germany, France, Italy and  Spain .  KKB, based in Muenchenstein,  Switzerland , is majority-owned
by Genossenschaft Elektra Birseck, a regional utility based in
the same town. The company owns about 35 megawatts in mini-
hydraulic and solar capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  