-- Thai Consumer Confidence Rises for First Time in Five Months on Flood Aid
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-01-12T04:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/thai-consumer-confidence-rises-for-first-time-in-five-months-on-flood-aid.html
Thailand ’s  consumer confidence  rose
for the first time in five months in December as the government
took steps to aid a recovery from the worst flooding in almost
70 years.  An  index  measuring sentiment increased to 63.1 from 61.0 in
November, the University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce said in
a statement in Bangkok today. The gauge is based on a survey of
2,242 respondents.  The Cabinet earlier this week approved a plan for 350
billion baht ($11 billion) in investment for water management
projects to prevent future floods on top of 120 billion baht in
planned spending to rehabilitate the economy. Thailand’s economy
may have contracted 5 percent last quarter from a year earlier,
according to the  finance ministry , after floods that spread
across the country in recent months killed more than 700 people
and shut thousands of factories.  “The government’s measures to rebuild and compensate flood
victims helped boost confidence,”  Thanavath Phonvichai , an
economist at the university, told a news conference in Bangkok
today. “Still, it will take time for  consumer spending  to fully
recover, possibly in the second quarter.”  The university expects the economy to grow 4.7 percent this
year, Thanavath said. Consumer confidence may fall in January
and February because of higher energy prices, he said.  The Finance Ministry last month cut its 2011 growth
forecast to 1.1 percent from as much as 2 percent predicted in
November after the floods led to the sharpest decline in
manufacturing in more than a decade.  The  Bank of Thailand  cut its  benchmark interest rate  by a
quarter of a percentage point to 3.25 percent on Nov. 30. It
predicts 4.8 percent economic growth in 2012, spurred by
reconstruction and as factories run by companies from Honda
Motor Co. to Western Digital Corp. return to normal operations.  “Economic problems in  Europe  remain the key risk factor
this year,” Thanavath said. “Still, the economy is expected to
grow significantly in the second quarter because of  government
spending  and wage rises.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  