-- Airlines Boost China-Taiwan Flights Ahead of President Poll
-- B y   A d e l a   L i n   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-01-13T08:56:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/airlines-boost-china-taiwan-flights-ahead-of-presidential-vote.html
Airlines doubled the number of extra
flights from  China  to Taiwan this year to handle demand from
passengers returning home for the Lunar New Year and to vote in
elections that may serve as a referendum on President Ma Ying- jeou’s push for better ties with the mainland.  Chinese and Taiwanese airlines added 375 extra flights
between Jan. 9 and Feb. 6 of this year, compared with 183 for
Lunar New Year 2011, when there was no election, according to
data provided by the island’s Civil Aeronautics Administration.  Airlines added 20 flights in the first eight days of the
traditional holiday travel period last year, said Chu Kuan-wen,
director of the aeronautics administration’s Air Transport
Division. This year, they added 101 flights Jan. 10-Jan. 14, the
day of the election, in which absentee voting isn’t allowed.  “Passengers returning home this week are likely for
election votes,” Chu said in a phone interview yesterday.  The return of voters may benefit Ma, said Alexander Huang,
a professor of political science at Taipei-based Tamkang
University’s Graduate Institute of International Affairs and
Strategic Studies. Ma’s push for closer economic ties with China
has resulted in Taiwanese investment in China rising to $12.2
billion in 2010, up 26 percent from 2007, the year before he
took office.  Shares of  China Airlines Ltd. (2610) , Taiwan’s biggest carrier,
fell 0.7 percent in Taipei trading.  EVA Airways Corp. (2618)  and
 Transasia Airways Corp. (6702)  both lost 0.8 percent. The benchmark
Taiex index declined 0.1 percent.  Preference for Ma  “If the race is very close, then returnees coming back to
cast their votes could play a role in the outcome,” Huang said.
“Those who have business in China or work there clearly have a
preference for Ma.”  Ma’s main opponent, Democratic Progressive Party leader
Tsai Ing-wen, has said closer economic ties with China risk
eroding the island’s autonomy.  Ma, 61, head of the Kuomintang party, has brought Taiwan
closer economically and politically to the mainland since taking
office in 2008, ending a six-decade ban on direct air, sea and
postal links, reducing tariffs and boosting two-way investment.  Ma was widening his narrow lead over Tsai in public opinion
polls taken prior to a blackout period for voter surveys that
began Jan. 4. Taiwanese law bars publication or release of polls
10 days prior to presidential elections.  About 800,000 Taiwanese live in China, according to Chao Chien-min, deputy minister at the Mainland Affairs Council.
About 180,000 returned to vote in 2008, when Ma won in a
landslide, Chao said. Turnout in that election was 76 percent.  Extra 77 Flights  China Airlines will have an extra 77 flights around the
Lunar New Year holiday this year, compared with 36 extra flights
last year, said Hamilton Liu, a spokesman for the company.  The airline added 20 flights yesterday and today, with more
than 7,000 seats returning to  Taiwan  booked, Liu said in a phone
interview yesterday.  TransAsia Airways added two flights on the 13th to Taipei
and Taichung, which are 95 percent booked. Ten flights will be
added to meet New Year demand, a spokeswoman said.  EVA Airways and affiliate Uni Airways Corp. are adding 51
flights between China-Taiwan for the Chinese New Year holiday,
including 16 before the elections, a spokeswoman at the company
said.  China Airlines and EVA Airways are offering free shuttle
bus services from the northern Taoyuan International Airport to
as far as Kaohsiung, 300 kilometers (186 miles) away, for
passengers arriving from China after midnight before Chinese New
Year, they said on their websites.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adela Lin in Taipei at 
 alin95@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  