-- Airport Bonds Attractive After AMR Corp. Filing, Friedland Says
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-01-12T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/airport-bonds-attractive-after-amr-corp-filing-friedland-says.html
AMR Corp. (AMR) , the parent company of
 American Airlines , filed for bankruptcy in November, which
prompted  Fitch Ratings  to place negative outlooks on three of
its biggest hubs. Eric Friedland, who previously worked at the
ratings company, said the pessimism surrounding airport bonds
presents an opportunity to buy the debt.  Friedland, now head of municipal research at  Schroders Plc (SDR) 
in New York, also discussed credit ratings, bond insurance and
the upcoming elections for today’s issue of the Bloomberg Brief:
Municipal Market newsletter.  Q: Is there one type of municipal debt in particular you’re
looking at in 2012?  A: One sector a lot of people point to is the essential-
service revenue-bond sector: water, sewer and public power. What
makes those attractive now is investors are somewhat isolated
from bad policy decisions that governments may make.  Another is airport bonds. Because of what’s happened with a
couple of major airlines, people have shied away from the
airport sector. Many airports do not serve as hubs, and are more
origination and destination airports, so the performance is more
tied to the local economy than a given airline. The airport
sector has been painted with a wide brush and considered weak
when its performance actually might be better than expected.  Q: What are your thoughts on the recalibration of 2010,
when rating companies adjusted their criteria for municipal debt
to make it more comparable to corporate debt, resulting in
higher ratings for many issuers?  A: I’m not in favor of it. It was very confusing for the
market, especially since each of the rating agencies handled it
a bit differently. Even though the rating agencies did their
best to explain that this wasn’t an upgrade based on credit, it
was still confusing for investors to see credits getting higher
ratings when the economy was turning south.  It also created credit compression at the higher levels. At
a time when investors were depending more on the rating agencies
to make credit distinctions, it was hard just to look at ratings
because it seemed like issues were being rated more similarly.  Also, you don’t want to have a situation where you wait too
long and have a multi-notch downgrade. That’s the worst thing a
rating agency could do. Investors will start to lose confidence
quickly if they see that.  Q: Would you agree that credit is the most important factor
for investors right now?  A: Credit is definitely a much bigger portion of
performance attribution. Performance used to be driven by what
happened in the Treasury market and general macro trends. Now it
is definitely tied to an individual credit.  It’s also what happened with bond insurance. In 2005, bond-
insurance penetration was about 50 percent, so there was a huge
portion of the bond market rated AAA, and it was very
homogeneous. For an individual investor, it didn’t really matter
what the individual credit was, because the bond insurers were
taking just about all the credit risk. Now bond insurance has
evaporated, with the exception of  Assured Guaranty .  Q: What counts as a default: missing a payment, dipping
into reserves, or both?  A: Nonpayment of debt service. If I was choosing between a
bond that had a  reserve fund  and one that didn’t, all things
equal I would want the bond with the reserve fund. The reserves
are there for the purpose of shortfalls.  Certainly drawing on reserves in many cases counts as a
technical default, but I wouldn’t put that in the same category
as a nonpayment.  Q: What’s your outlook for 2012?  A: Volume is definitely going to be higher than this year,
maybe 10 to 15 percent.  States were the big credit surprise last year. They went
into the year with large budget gaps but their solutions were
more meaningful than anyone expected them to be. They’re coming
into this budget cycle not in a good position, but in a better
position than people thought they would be in.  It’s a double-edged sword, though, because one of the
things they did to balance their books was cut funding to local
governments. That’s one area we’re going to be looking at
closely and be cautious.  Q: How do you think the 2012 election cycle will affect the
municipal  bond market , if at all?  A: The consensus is nothing meaningful will be done this
year, so the market has bought itself a year.  Look at Obama and the Democrats: On one hand, they talked
about capping the tax-exempt levels, which would be a negative
to the muni market. On the other hand, they’ve made proposals to
tax wealthy individuals at higher rates, which would be viewed
as a positive because it would make after-tax yields more
attractive.  It’s clear the federal deficit is not going to be solved
any time soon. Because of that, munis are going to be in the
crosshairs and the target of any solution to increase revenue.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  