-- Alibaba Said to Consider Reducing Size of Loan for Possible Yahoo Purchase
-- B y   W e n d y   M o c k   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-01-12T05:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/alibaba-said-to-consider-reducing-size-of-loan-for-possible-yahoo-purchase.html
Alibaba Group Holding Ltd (ALIBABZ) . is
considering reducing the size of a loan for a potential  Yahoo!
Inc. (YHOO)  acquisition to around $3 billion from the original target
of $4 billion in order to use its cash instead, a person
familiar with the matter said.  The company is examining a range of funding combinations
for various acquisition options related to Yahoo, and a final
decision on the size and structure of the loan has not been
made, the person said today. Alibaba has about $3 billion in
cash, another person said today, declining to be identified
because the details are private.  Alibaba and  Softbank Corp. (9984)  are considering acquisition
options related to Yahoo, the largest U.S. Internet portal,
three other people familiar with the matter said in December.
Yahoo owns about 40 percent of Alibaba, the top e-commerce
site in China, and 35 percent of Yahoo Japan Corp.  John Spelich, a Hong Kong-based spokesman for Alibaba,
declined to comment when asked about a loan.  Credit Suisse Group AG, DBS Bank Ltd., Deutsche Bank AG and
Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd. are arranging the loan, another three
people said on Dec. 15. The banks are seeking to expand the lead
lender group to as many as eight because the size of the loan is
too large for the four to underwrite themselves.  More lenders will be sought for the lead arranger group,
with a particular focus on attracting Chinese banks, even though
the size of the loan may be reduced, one of the people said
today.  Reuters reported the loan’s potential reduction in the size
on Jan. 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wendy Mock in  Hong Kong  at 
 wmock3@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  