-- Allen Stanford’s Criminal Defense Lawyers Want Out 12 Days Before Trial
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-01-12T13:15:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/allen-stanford-s-criminal-defense-lawyers-want-out-12-days-before-trial.html
Lawyers for R. Allen Stanford, the
 Texas  financier scheduled to go on trial this month on charges
of leading a $7 billion fraud, asked a judge to let them quit
the case.  Attorneys Ali Fazel and Robert Scardino, who are being paid
from public funds because Stanford’s assets are frozen by court
order in a related case, filed the withdrawal request with U.S.
District Judge David Hittner in Houston yesterday, saying budget
restrictions are hampering their effectiveness.  “The rulings of this court, the budget matters made public
by this court, and matters still under seal have placed counsel
in an untenable position,” they said. “Counsel cannot
represent the accused competently.”  Jury selection is scheduled to begin on Jan. 23. Stanford
is accused of defrauding investors who bought certificates of
deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.
He has denied the charges.  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on the lawyers’ request, citing
a court gag order barring lawyers from discussing the case.  Stanford has been in federal custody since he was indicted
in June 2009.  Stanford’s lawyers have complained since the first of the
year about a decision by the Fifth Circuit, which controls
budgets for the financier’s taxpayer-funded defense, to limit
funding available for experts and support staff.  Contractors Quit  On Jan. 3, contractors providing Stanford’s defense team
with electronic document management and expert witnesses quit
over unpaid bills dating back to September. They returned to
work on Jan. 6 after the chief judge of the Fifth Circuit
granted partial back pay and ordered them to resume work on the
case.  Two days ago, Hittner, who is in charge of Stanford’s
criminal trial, cut off funding for a jury consultant involved
with Stanford’s defense.  “As a result of the funding issues in this case and in
light of the current trial deadlines, the defense will be
compelled to try the case without having had the resources
necessary to render constitutionally adequate representation,
while the government has been entirely unfettered by any
financial resource constraints,” Fazel said in yesterday’s
filing.  Stanford’s lawyers asked Hittner for a 90-day delay
in the start of the trial if he refuses to let them leave the
case.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  