-- An Oil Strategy in Case Iran Closes Strait of Hormuz: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-12T00:14:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/an-oil-strategy-in-case-iran-s-navy-shuts-down-the-strait-of-hormuz-view.html
Let’s just say  Iran  makes good on
its recent threats to shut down the Strait of Hormuz. And let’s
say that with one-fifth of the world’s oil supply bottled up,
the price of a barrel of oil then almost doubles, as some
analysts predict, to more than $200.  What can the world do to bring prices down before a still-
woozy global economy gets pushed back into recession?  Pipelines that circumvent the strait could carry to market
at least 7 million of the 17 million barrels of tanker-borne oil
that passes through the strait each day. The U.S. could, for the
third time since the Gulf War in 1991, release oil from its 700
million-barrel  Strategic Petroleum Reserve ; other members of the
 International Energy Agency  (set up after the 1973-74 oil
crisis) could also tap the 90-day supply stocks that they are
required to maintain.  The IEA has already prepared a plan to release as many as
14 million barrels a day in the event of a Gulf closure,
according to a Reuters  report . Saudi Arabia, long the self-
appointed swing man of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, has a  spare production capacity  -- on paper, at least
-- of about 3 million barrels per day; everyone else is
producing almost flat out.  The U.S. now gets only about  9 percent  of the oil it
consumes from the Persian Gulf. Countries such as China,  India ,
 Japan  and  South Korea , however, rely on Gulf exports,
particularly from Iran, to power their economies. In the
European Union, debt-ridden  Greece  gets 14 percent of its oil
imports from Iran, Italy 13 percent and  Spain  almost 10 percent.
And because oil is a global commodity, as far as  oil prices  are
concerned, what happens in the Persian Gulf does not stay in the
Persian Gulf.  For all Iran’s missile-rattling, however, there is little
reason to think it will carry through on its bluster. To block
the Gulf would verge on economic suicide: Petroleum products
account for 20 percent of Iran’s gross domestic product, 80
percent of exports and 70 percent of its government revenue. Any
attempt to close the Gulf could also provoke a war with the U.S.
and vaporize what diplomatic support and leverage Iran gets from
countries (and clients) such as  China .  Iran may not intend ultimately to close the strait, but its
threats to do so can still instigate tremendous economic
uncertainty with very real consequences, especially in a hyper-
connected world wired with complex speculative instruments. The
challenge is similar to dealing with terrorist groups such as
al-Qaeda, which command our attention and resources through
their potential no less than their actions. In either case, the
goal is to balance the risks that such threats present with the
costs of protecting against them.  More pipelines would be a good start. Unfortunately, the
 United Arab Emirates  just announced that the opening of a 1.8
million barrel-per-day pipeline that circumvents the strait will
be put off until May. The use of drag-reduction agents -- an
estimated $600 million investment -- could  increase the capacity 
of  Saudi Arabia ’s existing two pipelines that reach the Red Sea
to as many as 11 million barrels per day. And if the Kingdom
wants to bolster its reputation as a “stable, reliable”
supplier of oil, it could invest the several billion dollars
needed to build another pipeline -- a prospect that may be less
painful if oil prices remain high. The current turmoil is
another reason why Iraq needs to repair its pipeline to  Turkey .
At home, we support the building of the Keystone XL pipeline
that will bring oil from  Canada ’s tar sands to market.  The IEA’s plan to release oil from emergency stocks will
only work if China, India and other non-IEA countries agree not
to hoard. That would require an unprecedented degree of policy
coordination. One way to reduce future shocks, especially in
 Asia , may be more positioning of exports in  regional storage
depots  and greater use of floating stocks. Governments may also
want to dust off the IEA’s 2005  blueprint  for cutting the amount
of fuel consumed by cars, trucks and buses. If the crisis
continues, the market’s response could also be an important
first test of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s soon-
to-be-imposed limits on trading by speculators.  Over the last few years, the U.S. has reduced its
dependence on oil imports in general and from the  Middle East  in
particular. Yet, almost four decades after the first oil shocks,
the economy remains deeply vulnerable to the threat of a cutoff
of oil from the Persian Gulf -- a state of affairs that calls
into question the commitment of, by some  estimates , trillions of
dollars to keep the Gulf stable and the  Strait of Hormuz  open.
Factor that “externality” into the price of a barrel of oil,
and alternative fuels begin to look like a bargain by comparison  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 