-- Manhattan Apartment Rents Jump 9.5% as Would-Be Buyers Hold Off Purchases
-- B y   O s h r a t   C a r m i e l
-- 2012-01-12T19:24:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/manhattan-apartment-rents-jump-9-5-as-would-be-buyers-hold-off-purchases.html
Manhattan  apartment rents jumped 9.5
percent in the fourth quarter as landlords emboldened by
increasing demand cut concessions and pushed price increases in
what’s traditionally the slowest leasing season.  The median effective rent, or what tenants pay after
landlord-sponsored incentives, rose to $3,121 a month from
$2,849 a year earlier, according to a report today by appraiser
 Miller Samuel Inc.  and broker  Prudential Douglas Elliman Real
Estate . The number of new leases increased 10 percent to 7,942
as competition made tenants quicker to sign deals.  Stricter mortgage-lending standards and weak  consumer
confidence  are limiting home purchases and driving demand for
rentals, said  Jonathan Miller , president of New York-based
 Miller Samuel . Manhattan apartment sales fell 12 percent in the
fourth quarter from a year earlier as  Europe ’s debt crisis and
sluggish U.S. job growth dimmed buyer appetites, Miller Samuel
and Prudential said on Jan. 4.  “It’s somewhat unprecedented that you have this robust
rental market and yet we still have this economy that is not
fully recovered,” Miller said in a telephone interview. “It’s
because credit remains very tight.”  Apartments were rented within 37 days on average in the
fourth quarter, the second-fastest pace in 17 years of Miller
Samuel data. The three months through June was the quickest
period, with properties averaging 33 days on the market.  Seasonal Slowdown  Manhattan leasing tends to slow in the colder months, when
corporate hiring winds down and there are fewer new college
graduates searching for housing, Miller said. Over the last 20
years, the number of fourth-quarter leases has declined an
average of 18 percent from the previous three months, according
to Miller. This year, the number of deals signed in the three
months through Dec. 31 almost matched the third-quarter total,
he said.  The surge in demand meant landlords could raise prices
while eliminating incentives for would-be tenants, said  Gary Malin , president of New York brokerage  Citi Habitats , which also
released a report on the rental market today. In 2011, 10
percent of deals brokered by Citi Habitats in 2011 included
sweeteners such as a month’s free rent, down from 31 percent the
year before.  Landlords also could afford to be choosier in accepting
tenants, according to  Caroline Bass , a broker with Citi
Habitats.  ‘Incredibly Strict’  “People were being incredibly strict for the winter
season,” she said.  Kenneth Stojak, a recent transplant from  South Carolina ,
sought Bass’s help in overcoming two things that made landlords
hesitant: he owns a 115-pound dog and he doesn’t have a job.  Stojak, 37, who left his post as chief financial officer of
the  Salty Dog Cafe  on Hilton Head Island, was flexible. He’d
considered third-floor walk-ups, was willing to pay as much as
$2,300 and didn’t insist on a particular neighborhood. He had
money in the bank to pay a full year’s rent and a guarantor
backing him up.  After two rejections and a search of almost two months, he
found a renovated 400-square-foot (37-square-meter) studio on
95th Street between Park and Lexington avenues. He agreed to the
$2,100 rent, which included a $100-a-month surcharge for his
dog, a 6-year-old French mastiff named Sonoma Wesson
Porterhouse.  ‘Humble Pie’  “You can’t be too proud coming into this market,” Stojak
said. “You have to eat some humble pie and like what you get.”  Manhattan’s apartment vacancy rate at the end of the year
was 1.1 percent, down from 1.2 percent in the fourth quarter of
2010, according to Citi Habitats.  Nationwide, apartment vacancies dropped to a 10-year low of
5.2 percent in the fourth quarter, allowing for rent increases
that are likely to continue this year,  Reis Inc. (REIS)  said in a Jan.
5 report.  “Because the economy was so up and down, I think certain
people put off their buy-side decisions temporarily until they
figure out what’s going on,” Malin said. “Maybe you feel more
comfortable dating your property rather than marrying it.”  Across Manhattan, rents at buildings with doormen started
at an average of $2,499 a month for studios and were as high as
$6,753 for three-bedroom units, Citi Habitats said. Studios in
buildings without elevators rented at an average of $1,909,
while one-bedrooms in those properties leased for an average of
$2,577.  The downtown neighborhoods of Soho and Tribeca commanded
the highest rents in the quarter, with studios leasing for an
average of $2,220 and one-bedrooms for $3,575, according to Citi
Habitats. Rents for two-bedroom units in those neighborhoods
averaged $5,654.  On the Upper West Side, average rents ranged from $1,912
for a studio to $6,100 for a three-bedroom apartment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Oshrat Carmiel in  New York  at 
 ocarmiel1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  