-- Apple Beijing Shop Pelted With Eggs as IPhone Debut Botched
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-13T09:07:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/apple-iphone-4s-beijing-debut-delayed-as-main-store-unopened.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , whose skill at hyping
new products helped make it the world’s most valuable technology
company, became a victim of its own  success  after a botched
introduction of its iPhone 4S in  China  led it to suspend sales.  Would-be customers who waited overnight as temperatures
dropped below minus 9 degrees Celsius reacted with fury after
the company’s main store in Beijing’s Sanlitun district failed
to open. The company sold out of the handsets at stores that did
open and later halted sales of all  iPhones  at its five retail
outlets in the country “for the time being,” spokeswoman
Carolyn Wu said by phone.  Apple had advertised that the store would open at 7 a.m. At
7:15 a.m., people began chanting “Open the door!” and
“Liars!” after an unidentified man said over a bullhorn that
the phone wouldn’t go on sale today, without giving an
explanation. The store stayed closed “for safety reasons,” Wu
said. Beijing police temporarily cordoned off the shop after it
was pelted with eggs by the crowd.  “This is a debacle,”  Shaun Rein , managing director of
China Market Research Group, a Shanghai-based retail advising
company, said in a phone interview today. “Everybody knows
there will be massive numbers of people when Apple has this kind
of a launch. This shows very poor retail management ability.”  ‘Very Angry’  Elsewhere in the capital, the introduction went more
smoothly. At Apple’s store in the Xidan neighborhood, the
company handed out 1,000 tickets good for the purchase of a
maximum two iPhone 4S handsets each. In Shanghai, a store in the
Pudong district opened an hour early to accommodate the waiting
crowds before selling out of the phones immediately.  “I’m very angry,” said Li Yun, 59, a retiree who said she
tried to buy the device on behalf of her daughter at the
People’s Square store in  Shanghai . “They had said they would
start selling the iPhone 4S at 7 a.m. but I was told they were
already sold out by the time I got here at 6 a.m.”  About 60 migrant workers, hired by resellers to line up
last night outside Apple’s store in Beijing’s Xidan, weren’t
paid the 120 yuan ($19) they were promised because they failed
to get an iPhone 4S after the 12-hour wait, according to several
of them, who asked not to be named for fear of reprisal. They
came by bus from a labor market in the suburbs and received only
a 10-yuan food allowance, they said.  Expansion Slowed  The crush of crowds at the stores is a reflection of the
company’s decision to slow the opening of outlets in China, Rein
said.  Apple in February 2010 announced a plan for 25 stores in
China over two years, then slowed the expansion. Including the
 Hong Kong  shop, which started selling the iPhone 4s on Nov. 11,
there are six in the country.  “There isn’t enough product in enough retail points,”
Rein said. “If they had more points of sale, it would disperse
the crowds.”  Hundreds of people lined up outside the store in Hong
Kong’s IFC Mall for several nights when the new iPhone went on
sale, prompting police to use metal barricades to keep order.  Apple has more than 300 outlets worldwide and planned to
sell the latest iPhone model through its three stores in
Shanghai, two in Beijing, the two main cities in the world’s
largest mobile-phone market.  Second-Largest Market  The Cupertino, California-based company sold 5.6 million
iPhones in China in the first nine months of last year, giving
it a 10.4 percent share of the smartphone market in the third
quarter, according to research company Gartner Inc. Apple’s Wu
earlier declined to comment on the outlook for iPhone 4S sales
in China.  Apple’s stores in China generate the highest traffic and
highest revenue of any of the company’s stores in the world, on
average, Chief Financial Officer  Peter Oppenheimer  said last
January.  The maker of Macintosh computers and the iPad tablet
increased its revenue in China to $13 billion in the year ended
Sept. 24, from $3 billion a year earlier, Chief Executive
Officer  Tim Cook  said in October. China accounted for 16 percent
of Apple’s  revenue  in the fiscal fourth-quarter, making it the
company’s biggest national market after the U.S.  Foxconn Suicides  Today’s confrontation wasn’t the first during a product
introduction at the Sanlitun store, which opened in 2008 as
Apple’s first in the country. In May, the store was temporarily
closed when a group that lined up outside to buy the iPad 2
“became unruly,” Wu of Apple said at the time. Four people
were injured and a glass door to the shop was smashed, the  China
Daily  reported.  The violence adds to challenges for Apple in China, where
company supplier Foxconn Technology Group was hit by a series of
employee suicides. The Taipei-based company installed safety
nets on buildings, raised pay and hired counselors in 2010 after
at least 10 workers killed themselves. Apple also commissioned a
review by a team of suicide-prevention experts.  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. , the nation’s second-largest
carrier, is the only one of the country’s three service
providers offering the iPhone with a service contract. The
company sent a text message to subscribers trumpeting free home
delivery of the new handset through its online store.  Yellow Bulls  “Buy the iPhone 4S without lining up!”  China Unicom (762)  said
in a text sent to subscribers in Beijing. Unicom’s online shop
made the device available at midnight, the text said.  While Apple suspended iPhone 4s sales at its China shops,
the handsets remain available on its website as well as from
Unicom and resellers, Wu said.  Sophia Tso, a spokeswoman at China Unicom in Hong Kong,
didn’t immediately reply to messages left by phone and e-mail
seeking comment.  The Unicom site lists the 16-gigabyte model for 5,880 yuan
($932), with different levels of subsidies. The handset is free
to users committing to a three-year plan for 286 yuan a month or
a two-year plan costing 386 yuan a month, the website said.  The crowd around Apple’s main Beijing store diminished
after police lifted the cordon and the doors remained closed.
Some waited a while longer for a chance to buy the phone, which
includes voice recognition software that doesn’t work with
Mandarin, before giving up.  “We were unable to open our store at Sanlitun due to the
large crowd and to ensure the safety of our customers and
employees,” Wu said.  The fracas outside the store was caused by yellow bulls, a
euphemism for people who buy the phones for sale at a markup,
Tony Si, an 18-year-old bartender, said outside the store. The
disorder, police response and store closing was their fault, not
Apple’s, though he is still disappointed, he said.  “I’m angry because they said they’d sell it, and now they
aren’t selling it,” Si said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  