-- Target Brings in Mom-and-Pops
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-01-12T21:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/target-brings-in-mom-and-pops.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the discount chain
that brought cheap chic to the masses, is going mom-and-pop.  Target previously confined itself to cutting deals with
such designers as Michael Graves and Missoni, and now plans to
sell dog treats, home goods and other products designed by small
businesses most Americans have never heard of.  With cheap chic now commonplace -- even  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  plans
to sell Martha Stewart-brand office supplies -- Target needed a
new way to stand out, said Brian Robinson, the chain’s director
of fashion and design partnerships. The idea is to laud American
entrepreneurs, he said.  Since the recession “people want to believe we are a
country of innovators, and these types of stories people are
hungry for,” Robinson said in an interview.  The Minneapolis-based retailer could use a boost. Its
December same-store sales rose 1.6 percent; analysts projected a
gain of 3.3 percent. The retailer has been driving sales growth
by putting fresh grocery sections in more stores and getting
more customers to sign up for its REDCard, which offers 5
percent off purchases.  The shares  rose  1.6 percent to $49.81 at the close in New
York. They dropped 15 percent last year.  Target’s new initiative is an attempt to attract consumers
increasingly used to “going off the beaten path and buying more
artisanal and specialized products,” said  Matt Arnold , an
analyst at Edward Jones & Co. in  Des Peres ,  Missouri . It
“extends what they’ve always been about, which is a
differentiated shopping experience.”  Competitors Followed  The chain began selling designer goods more than a decade
ago, earning the nickname “Tarjay,” and has since watched
competitors such as Kohl’s Corp. and J.C. Penney Co. follow suit
with product lines from celebrities such as  Jennifer Lopez  and
fashion brands like Liz Claiborne.  Target’s five new partners include Boston-based  Polka Dog
Bakery , which sells a five-pound can of treats made with peanut
butter and Parmesan cheese for $66, Privet House, a Greenwich,
Connecticut home goods store, and The Candy Store in  San
Francisco , which markets sweets like fine wine.  Target, which will continue partnering with fashion
designers, started looking at hundreds of U.S.-based boutiques
about 18 months ago. Prices for the 400 exclusive items, which
will go on sale at Target’s 1,700 U.S. stores and online in May,
will range from $1 to $160.  They will be available for a limited time before others
rotate in later this year. The stories of the business owners
will be featured in advertising and in-store marketing.  “This whole thing has been surreal since we’re such a
small business,” said Diane Campbell, 39, who founded  The Candy
Store  in 2007 with her husband Brian. The company, which has
four employees,“isn’t really sure what’s about to happen. We’re
a true mom-and-pop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in  New York  at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  