-- Target to Test Apple Boutiques to Boost Lagging Tech Sales
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d ,   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-01-12T21:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/target-to-test-apple-boutiques-in-stores-to-boost-lagging-electronic-sales.html
Target Corp. (TGT) , the second-largest
U.S. discount chain, plans to install areas dedicated to  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s brand in some of its stores this year to boost sales of
iPads and computer accessories.  The concept will be tested in 25 locations and have a wider
assortment of Apple products than the retailer currently sells,
Dustee Tucker Jenkins, a spokeswoman for Minneapolis-based
Target, told reporters today.  Target, which already sells Apple products and was one of
the first major retailers to sell the iPad, said “softness” in
electronics sales last month contributed to a same-store sales
increase that trailed analysts’ estimates. By placing branded
areas in Target, Apple is returning to the big-box retailers
that late co-founder  Steve Jobs  had sought to circumvent when he
created the company’s chain of stores a decade ago.  “Target is a retailer that I don’t think has a large
presence in tech, but it has a good presence in young suburban
family shoppers,” Daniel Ernst, an analyst at Hudson Square
Research in  New York , said in a telephone interview. “It’s the
hip, big-box store. It makes a lot of sense and it will give
Apple a bigger footprint.”  Apple’s stores typically are placed in high-trafficked
areas or flagship locations such as Grand Central Station in New
York and Covent Garden in  London .  Apple already has miniature shops in more than 600 Best Buy
Co. locations, a partnership that began about two years ago. The
sections within Best Buy have characteristics of Apple stores,
with tables highlighting products such as iPads and Mac
computers.  ‘Big Driver’  “The guys standing next to it are trained to sell Apple
products and have different T-shirts on, and it’s been a big
driver,” Ernst said.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , has been operating
without a head of its retail operations since Ronald Johnson
said he would leave to become chief executive officer of J.C.
Penney Co. in June. Apple had 357 stores at the end of last
quarter, which generated $3.6 billion in sales.  Target rose 1.6 percent to $49.81 at the close in New York.
Apple fell 0.3 percent to $421.39.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  