-- Arpeni Insolvency Proceedings to Be Decided in Indonesia, U.S. Court Rules
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r   a n d   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-12T22:29:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/arpeni-insolvency-to-be-decided-in-indonesia-u-s-court-rules.html
PT Arpeni Pratama Ocean Line (APOL)  won a
court order recognizing  Indonesia  as home to the shipping
company’s main insolvency proceeding.  The decision in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan  gives
the bankruptcy judge the right to enforce the rulings of the
Central Jakarta Commercial Court in the U.S. The Indonesian
court will oversee the distribution of assets, meaning U.S.
creditors will need to file claims in Indonesia.  The ruling may set an example for future Indonesian debt
restructuring decisions, whereby a foreign court will accept a
debtor’s home jurisdiction. The decision may mean that all
creditors on Arpeni’s $141 million 8.5 percent 2013 bonds will
have to accept its offer to exchange the securities for cash or
floating-rate notes.  “International investors will now have to get their head
around the fact that bankruptcy law, as a creature of public
policy, has always been intended to trump creditors’ contractual
rights in the debt instruments,” Joe Bauerschmidt, a partner at
 Jones Day (1113L)  working on the case, said by telephone on Jan. 12.
“Philosophically, this is the right step to make in an
international restructuring.”  This step of prohibiting creditors from bringing actions to
the U.S. is “a little while in coming”, said Bauerschmidt.  Arpeni missed its 2013 U.S. bond coupon payment in November
2009 and was suspended from trading on the Indonesian stock
exchange in March 2011.  NM Rothschild & Sons Ltd. is sole adviser on Arpeni’s debt
restructuring.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net 
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  