-- Aussie Dollar Trades Below One-Week High on U.S. Economic Growth Concern
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a
-- 2012-01-13T02:51:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/aussie-dollar-trades-below-one-week-high-on-u-s-economic-growth-concern.html
The Australian dollar traded below a
one-week high amid concern U.S. economic growth may be weaker
than forecast, sapping demand for riskier assets.  The  New Zealand  dollar extended yesterday’s drop following
a report that showed U.S. retail sales increased less than
projected and before data that may indicate a wider trade
deficit for the world’s largest economy. Declines in the so-
called Aussie and kiwi were limited as Asian stocks rallied
after European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said his
strategy for tackling Europe’s crisis is beginning to work.  “The risks to the European economy and to the broader
global economy are still to the downside,” said  Joseph Capurso ,
a currency strategist in Sydney at Commonwealth Bank of
Australia. “That suggests that there’s a cap on commodity
prices and commodity currencies like the Aussie and kiwi.”  Australia ’s dollar slipped 0.2 percent to $1.0317 at 1:50
p.m. in Sydney from $1.0333 in  New York  yesterday, when it rose
as high as $1.0378, the strongest level since Jan. 4. The Aussie
was at 79.18 yen from 79.32 yesterday.  New Zealand’s currency slipped 0.3 percent to 79.15 U.S.
cents from yesterday, when it fell 0.4 percent. It slid 0.3
percent to 60.74 yen.  The Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB  Index (CRY)  of raw materials
fell 1.2 percent yesterday.  U.S. Economy  The  U.S. trade deficit  probably widened to $45 billion in
November, according to the median forecast of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News before the Commerce Department
publishes its figures today.  Data released yesterday indicated sales at U.S. retailers
 climbed  0.1 percent in December, less than the 0.3 percent gain
predicted in a Bloomberg survey.  A separate  report  showed new applications for  unemployment
benefits  climbed by 24,000 to 399,000 in the week ended Jan. 7.
Four of the five previous weekly reports showed a decline in
initial claims.  Investors were “getting too bullish about the fall in the
jobless claims in December, same thing with the retail trade,”
said Commonwealth Bank’s Capurso. He expects the Australian
dollar to fall to 98 U.S. cents by the end of this quarter, and
the kiwi to decline to 75 U.S. cents.  Losses in the South Pacific currencies were limited after
the ECB president said yesterday in Frankfurt that while
“substantial downside risks” remain, there are “tentative
signs” that the euro-area economy is stabilizing. European
policy makers left their benchmark rate unchanged at 1 percent
yesterday.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks jumped 0.5 percent,
following a 0.3 percent gain in the MSCI World  Index (CRY)  yesterday.  Australia’s government bonds fell, with the yield on 10-
year notes climbing five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point,
to 3.80 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Garfield Reynolds at   greynolds1@bloomberg.net  