-- Australian Tennis Open May Get Lead-Up Event in Asia as Early as Next Year
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-12T15:02:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/australian-open-may-get-lead-up-event-in-asia-director-says.html
The Australian Open may add a lead-
up event in  Asia  as early as next year as the Grand Slam
tournament looks to increase its engagement with the region,
Tennis Australia’s commercial director said.  The Melbourne-based governing body currently operates three
tournaments each January before the tennis season’s first major.
The Brisbane and Sydney Internationals feature both men and
women, while women only play the Hobart International.  “We’ve got our lead-in period at the moment and we’re
looking at how we might bolster that and take it into Asia as
well,” Tennis Australia’s Steve Ayles said in an interview.
“You’d have Australian Open Series events in Asia. It could be
in time for the next Open.”  Staging a lead-up tournament in Asia would give players
another chance to experience conditions similar to those at
 Melbourne  Park during the two-week Grand Slam, Ayles said. He
declined to say which locations were under consideration.  Top men’s players including No. 1-ranked Novak Djokovic,
 Rafael Nadal  and Roger Federer have begun their seasons in the
 Middle East  in recent years, sometimes delaying their arrival
into Melbourne until the week before the Australian Open.  “It’s hard to compete with those sorts of tournaments but
in terms of preparation that’s the one massive advantage we
have,” Ayles said at the Sydney International. “Wherever we
hold a lead-in event, it will have the same surface, the same
bounce, the same balls. It will be a similar time zone.”  Trophy Tour  The Australian Open, whose major sponsor is South Korean
carmaker  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , bills itself as the “Grand Slam of
Asia/Pacific.” Ticket sales through tour operators in Asia are
30 percent up on 2011, Ayles said.  Organizers took the singles champion trophies on an
overseas tour for the first time in October with stops in
Shanghai, Beijing and Wuhan, the home town of  Li Na , who became
the first Chinese winner of a Grand Slam title in June at the
 French Open . Li was the runner-up in Melbourne last year to
Belgium’s  Kim Clijsters .  Of the 307.6 million television viewers that watched the
2011 tournament, about 60 percent were located within the Asia-
Pacific region, according to figures provided by Tennis
Australia.  Any Australian Open Series expansion into Asia would be
done in conjunction with local tennis authorities, Ayles said.  “Whatever country we end up doing events in, we would work
with them,” he said.  The year’s first major starts Jan. 16 at Melbourne Park.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  