-- Avesta Capital Gives Back Investor Money as Tung Returns to Bacon’s Moore
-- B y   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-01-12T22:03:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/avesta-capital-gives-back-investor-money-as-tung-returns-to-bacon-s-moore.html
Avesta Capital Advisors LLC, a $636
million equity hedge fund run by William Tung, is giving back
outside capital after nearly a decade in business, according to
a letter sent to investors.  Tung, 41, will return to New York-based Moore Capital
Management LP, where he worked for six years before starting his
own fund. Moore, run by  Louis Bacon , is a so-called macro firm,
which chases macroeconomic trends by trading stocks, bond,
currencies and commodities.  “Given the prominent role that ‘macro’ is playing in the
stock market these days, and given my desire to emphasize the
‘top-down’ in Avesta’s process, being at a macro shop such as
Moore will only facilitate greater chances of success,” Tung
said in the letter today.  Tung joins at least three other hedge-fund managers who
said they are planning to return capital. In December, Henry
Swieca, founder of two-year-old Talpion Fund Management LP, said
he was giving back client money because he didn’t want to
register his fund with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission, a person with knowledge of the matter said at the
time. Tim Leslie, head of James Caird Asset Management LP in
 London , told investors he was liquidating his credit fund
following losses in 2011. Duke Buchan III said he was closing
Hunter Global Investors LP following poor performance last year.  Avesta lost 6.4 percent in 2011, according to an investor
in the fund who asked not to be named because the information is
private. The fund returned 6.5 percent a year, on average since
it began in September 2002, compared with a return of 5.5
percent for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, Tung said in the
letter.  A spokesman for Avesta declined to comment.  Avesta will return most of the capital to investors by the
end of February. He may re-open his fund to clients at some
point in the future, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  