-- Bank of America, UBS Renew Demand for MBIA Insolvency Review
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-12T23:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/bank-of-america-ubs-renew-demand-for-mbia-insolvency-review.html
Four banks  suing   MBIA (MBI)  Inc. over the
insurer’s 2009 restructuring renewed a request to a regulator to
assess the finances of a unit that guaranteed toxic mortgage
debt, citing “substantial additional evidence” it’s insolvent.  The lenders, including  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  UBS AG (UBSN) ,
asked Department of Financial Services Superintendent  Benjamin
Lawsky  for a “qualified” expert to review expected losses for
MBIA Insurance Corp. The banks said they had data that “clearly
demonstrates” the unit “cannot satisfy its policyholder claims
in full,” Robert Giuffra, the banks’ lead counsel and a partner
at  Sullivan & Cromwell  in New York, said in a Jan. 11 letter to
Lawsky.  The banks, which bought guarantees from the insurer on
securities tied to home loans, sued Armonk, New York-based MBIA
and the state insurance regulator in 2009, claiming MBIA’s
restructuring left it undercapitalized and possibly unable to
pay future claims. Fourteen of an original 18 plaintiffs
withdrew from the suits after settling with the insurer
separately.  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA and  Natixis (KN)  SA are the other two
banks still fighting the split.  “Although the banks have been predicting MBIA Insurance
Corp.’s imminent demise for almost three years, it remains
solvent and fully capable of meeting all of its expected
obligations,”  Kevin Brown , an MBIA spokesman, said in an e-
mail. MBIA has continues to pay claims, including payments to
the 14 former plaintiffs, he said. Bank of America owes MBIA
about $3 billion in mortgage put-back claims, according to
Brown.  Initial Review  The lawsuits include one under New York’s  Article 78 , which
allows court review of the state administrative decision
approving the MBIA restructuring. The evidence presented by the
banks wasn’t part of the insurance department’s initial review
of the insurer when it approved the restructuring, Giuffra said
in the letter. The Article 78 proceeding trial is scheduled to
start on Feb. 27.  David Neustadt, a spokesman for the  New York  Department of
Financial Services, declined to comment.  Five-year credit-default swaps on the MBIA Insurance unit
fell 0.9 percentage points to 22.9 percent upfront as of 3:20
p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA. That’s in
addition to 5 percentage points a year, meaning the cost to
protect $10 million of the company’s obligations against default
fell to $2.29 million upfront and $500,000 annually.  Contracts on MBIA Inc. declined 0.7 percentage point to 7.9
percent upfront, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group
Inc. and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt.  Earlier this week, a spokesman for the state financial
services department said Paris-based BNP Paribas SA will
withdraw from the suits challenging the restructuring, sending
the swaps to the lowest since Nov. 2008.  The banks’ letter was reported earlier today by the Wall
Street Journal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in New York at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  