-- Banks Said to Curb Conversion of French Stocks on Taxation Change Concerns
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-01-12T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/banks-said-to-curb-conversion-of-french-stocks-amid-tax-concern.html
Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
and  Tullett Prebon Plc (TLPR)  started restricting orders to convert
French stocks into American Depositary Receipts amid concern
about how taxation changes will affect share dealing.  The brokerages suspended taking orders yesterday for so-
called cross-book swaps, where a client exchanges  French shares 
for U.S.-listed ADRs, or didn’t quote prices for the trades,
according to four people familiar with the situation, who asked
not to be identified because the information isn’t public.  The move was prompted by legislation introduced on Jan. 1
that extends duties on the sale of shares outside France, one of
the people said. It wasn’t related to concern President Nicolas Sarkozy will impose a new tax on financial transactions. The law
removed a 5,000-euro ($6,400) cap on the tax payable on a sale,
KPMG LLP wrote in a  report  on its website dated Dec. 21.  “It’s stemming from confusion regarding the new taxation
of the transfer of shares, and had little to do with any
possible new tax on financial transactions,” Stephane Ekolo,
chief European strategist at Market Securities in  London , said
in a phone interview. “That debate is still pending.”  Kate Haywood, a spokeswoman for JPMorgan in London, Jeff French, a spokesman for Citigroup, and Nigel Szembel of Tullett
Prebon all declined to comment.  France will lead the way in imposing duties on financial
transactions in an effort to spur other countries into joining,
Sarkozy said Jan. 10 in a speech in the eastern French city of
Mulhouse. The president faces elections in a two-round vote in
April and May this year and wants to make good on a pledge he
made to impose such a tax when  France  last year held the
presidency of both the G-8 and G-20 group of countries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  