-- Barclays’s Absa Sues Nedbank for $95 Million Over Trading Losses
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-01-12T12:23:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/barclays-s-absa-sues-nedbank-for-95-million-over-trading-losses.html
Absa Group Ltd., (ASA)  the South African
bank controlled by  Barclays Plc (BARC) , sued the country’s fourth-
largest bank,  Nedbank Group Ltd. (NED) , for 773 million rand ($95
million) in trading losses.  Absa has “issued a summons against Nedbank in relation to
the events surrounding the trading of single-stock futures over
the shares of Pinnacle Point Holdings, and subsequent
defaults,” Marthinus Van Rensburg, the head of Johannesburg-
based Absa’s legal team, said in an e-mailed statement today.
The lender “cannot comment further in relation to this matter,
which is now the subject of legal proceedings,” he said.  A Nedbank unit, Syfrets, had to buy shares in a South
African leisure and property company called Acc-Ross in 2007
when it traded the single-stock futures in the company on behalf
of clients of South African stock broker, Cortex Securities. The
holding in Acc-Ross, which was renamed  Pinnacle Point Group Ltd. (PNG) 
in 2008, increased beyond 35 percent, which by law should have
forced Nedbank to make an offer to minority shareholders.
Pinnacle Point shares declined more than 90 percent after
Nedbank sold its stake.  Barclays Plc-owned Absa was obligated in 2008 to acquire
stakes in Pinnacle Point and three other companies after Cortex,
for which Absa was the clearing bank, defaulted on payments for
the single-stock futures linked to the four stocks. Absa in 2010
agreed to sell its Pinnacle stake after taking a 931 million-
rand writedown on the investment.  Regulatory Ruling  Nedbank, which is controlled by  Old Mutual Plc (OML) ,
successfully argued in a hearing with the Securities Regulation
Panel in May 2010 that it was an intermediary and not intent on
gaining control of Acc-Ross.  “The Securities Regulation Panel looked at issues
surrounding the Pinnacle single-stock futures and ruled in our
favor and similarly we do not think this claim has any merit,”
Nedbank Chief Executive Officer  Mike Brown  said in an e-mailed
response to questions today.  “The whole matter is fraught with negligence and
recklessness, but we cannot find any indication of an intention
on the part of Nedbank to gain control over Acc-Ross,” the
regulator said in a statement in August 2010.  Single-stock futures give an investor the right to trade a
contract based on an underlying share at a fixed price on a
future date.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg  at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  