-- Baseball Commissioner Bud Selig’s Contract Extended Through 2014 Season
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-01-12T19:12:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/baseball-commissioner-bud-selig-s-contract-extended-through-2014-season.html
Major League Baseball  Commissioner
 Bud Selig  was given a two-year contract extension that will keep
him in the job through 2014, delaying retirement that he had
planned for this year.  Selig, 77, who had said several times in recent years that
he would step down when his contract was up at the end of 2012,
accepted the extension at the request of the league’s owners,
Major League Baseball said in a news release.  Financial terms weren’t disclosed. Selig’s compensation may
reach $25 million annually, according to  USA Today . The pay is
tied to the sport’s revenue, which is more than $7 billion a
year, the newspaper reported without citing the source of its
information.  “It is an honor to be asked to continue to serve the game
of baseball, and I thank the clubs for their confidence in the
direction in which we have taken the game,” Selig said in a
statement.  Baseball and its players union reached a five-year
collective bargaining agreement in November that guarantees
labor peace will stretch to 22 years in a sport marked by work
stoppages early in Selig’s tenure.  Baseball set attendance records under Selig in each season
from 2004 to 2007, when it was 79.5 million. It’s dropped in
recent years as the U.S. has faced economic difficulties, though
it was more than 73 million last season, the fifth-highest in
history and the most since 2008.  The television audience for late season’s World Series
between the  St. Louis Cardinals  and  Texas Rangers  averaged 19
percent higher than the 2010 championship between the Rangers
and  San Francisco Giants . The Cardinals’ Game 7 win over the
Rangers had 25.4 million viewers, the most-watched World Series
game since the  Boston Red Sox  ended their 86-year championship
drought in 2004.  Vincent Leaves  Selig became the acting commissioner in 1992 following the
resignation of Fay Vincent. He was voted to the position on a
permanent basis by league owners in 1998.  Selig is the ninth major-league commissioner. Entering his
21st season in the job, he’s already second in tenure behind
Kenesaw Mountain Landis, the first commissioner, who led the
sport from 1920 to 1944.  He oversaw the realignment of teams into three divisions
per league, the creation of interleague play and the expansion
of the playoffs with the wild-card entry for top non-division
winners.  He also led the sport through a 1994 players’ strike that
wiped out the World Series, and an era of performance-enhancing
drug use that altered baseball’s record books, led to
congressional inquiries and eventually strengthened doping
rules.  The latest collective bargaining agreement includes the
first blood tests for human growth hormone at the top level of
North American professional team sports.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in  New York  at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 