-- Bill Gates Push to Reach Polio-Free World Gets Boost as India Foils Virus
-- B y   A d i   N a r a y a n   a n d   K h u r r u m   A n i s
-- 2012-01-12T18:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/bill-gates-push-to-reach-polio-free-world-gets-boost-as-india-foils-virus.html
A Bill Gates-backed effort to wipe
out  polio  got a welcome boost after  India , one of the last
strongholds for the crippling disease, found no case for a year.  The anniversary today of India’s last reported polio
infection marks the longest time that transmission has stopped
in the  country  which had the most cases in the world in 2009.
India’s success shows eliminating the disease is possible where
there is “political will, quality immunization campaigns and an
entire nation’s determination,” said Gates, 56, chairman and
co-founder of Microsoft Corp., in a statement yesterday.  India will be declared free of polio if it goes two more
years without cases. Stopping the virus in the nation, one of
four where transmission has never been interrupted, is crucial
to ridding the world of a germ that paralyzed more than 350,000
children in at least 125 countries annually before a global
effort to fight it began 23 years ago.  “Just a few years ago, doom mongers said that polio could
not be stopped in India,” said Liam Donaldson,  England ’s former
chief medical officer, who chairs a panel monitoring eradication
efforts. “This week’s milestone should provide a real boost for
those countries still struggling to stop polio.”  India, where more than 65 percent of people lack a toilet
and 500,000 children die each year from diarrheal illnesses, has
had the world’s “most tenacious reservoir” of poliovirus,
according to Margaret Chan, director-general of the  World Health
Organization . The country’s last reported case was on Jan. 13,
2011, in the state of West Bengal.  Polio Exporter  Poliovirus is shed by infected people in feces and can
spread as a result of poor sanitation and hygiene. Millions of
people were  paralyzed  by the disease in the 20th century before
vaccines became widely available in the 1950s. Sanitation
improvements and routine immunization have helped eradicate the
disease from all but 14 countries in  Asia  and  Africa .  “India has exported polio in the last two decades to
pretty much every place in the world,” Deepak Kapur, who chairs
 Rotary International ’s polio committee in India, said in an
interview. “The virus can come back via the same route.”  The  Global Polio Eradication Initiative , formed by the WHO,
the  United Nations Children’s Fund , Rotary International and the
U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in 1988, wants
India’s success to counter a decline in funding.  “We must ensure that India’s polio program continues to
move full-steam ahead until eradication is achieved,” Gates
said. Raising funds can “ultimately save billions of dollars
and help to ensure that no child ever suffers from this
crippling disease again.”  Top Priority  The billionaire, who contributes about $150 million
annually to the cause through the  Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation , last year made polio eradication the foundation’s
top priority.  A $410 million financing gap threatens to undermine
eradication efforts amid a spike in outbreaks in nearby
 Pakistan , which reported a third of the 620 cases found
worldwide in the past year.  Floods that inundated parts of southern Pakistan in August
frustrated efforts to immunize children in remote villages, said
Mazhar Ali Khamisani, an official with the Sindh provincial
government overseeing polio immunizations.  “The majority of the cases erupted in the flooded areas
and then people carried the infection elsewhere,” he said,
adding that fighting between government and pro-Taliban forces
in Pakistan’s Khyber region also prevented access.  Crossing Borders  “Without urgent and fundamental change, it is a safe bet
that it will be the last country on earth to host polio,” the
International Monitoring Board of the Global Polio Eradication
Initiative, the group chaired by Donaldson, said in October.  The cross-border movement of people into northern India
risks reintroducing the virus there, said Tim Petersen, a polio
officer with the Gates Foundation in  Seattle .  “Everybody needs to be on a heightened state of alert,”
he said. “The community and government cannot afford to get
complacent.”  Officials at checkpoints close to the Pakistan border are
routinely assessing travelers for paralysis and other polio
symptoms and children younger than 5 years are compulsorily
vaccinated, said Balwinder Singh, a polio project officer who
oversees immunizations in Punjab state’s health department.  “The threat of an infected person crossing over is very
real,” he said over the telephone from Chandigarh. “There are
polio pockets very close to the border.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adi Narayan in Mumbai at 
 anarayan8@bloomberg.net 
Khurrum Anis in Karachi at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  