-- Blackstone Joins DDR to Buy 46 Shopping Centers in U.S. for $1.43 Billion
-- B y   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-01-12T00:32:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/blackstone-joins-ddr-to-buy-46-shopping-centers-in-u-s-for-1-43-billion.html
Blackstone Group LP (BX)  formed a
partnership with  DDR Corp. (DDR)  to buy 46 U.S. shopping centers for
$1.43 billion from a unit of  Elbit Imaging Ltd. (EMIT) , expanding the
private-equity firm’s wager on a rebound in retail leasing.  The Blackstone Real Estate Partners VII fund will own 95
percent of a venture formed to purchase the properties, with DDR
owning the rest through an affiliate and continuing to manage
them, the companies said in a statement yesterday.  The purchase, scheduled for completion in June, is the
third recent investment in discount retail real estate for
Blackstone, which became the second-largest U.S. owner of
neighborhood and community shopping centers, after Kimco Realty
Corp., with its June acquisition of 585 malls from  Australia ’s
Centro Properties Group for $9.2 billion. The Centro portfolio
was renamed Brixmor Property Group Inc.  “What Blackstone has been doing over the last year has
been betting on an improvement in the retail climate and
perceived mispricing of B-quality assets in the strip center
industry,” Cedrik Lachance, a managing director at research
firm Green Street Advisors Inc., said in a telephone interview
from  Newport Beach ,  California . “The pricing appears slightly
favorable to the buyers.”  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman, declined to comment
beyond yesterday’s statement.  Elbit stock rallied 20 percent after the deal was
announced. The retail centers are being sold by  EPN Group , an
affiliate of Tel Aviv-based Elbit that was formed in 2009 to buy
U.S. real estate. The shares of Elbit, an investor in real
estate and medical companies, have fallen more than 70 percent
in the past year.  Occupancy Increased  EPN decided to sell so it could realize a profit to show
investors as it prepares to raise its second fund, Alex Berman,
head of the Skokie, Illinois-based company, said in a telephone
interview. Since taking control of the assets, EPN has replaced
management, refinanced loans and increased occupancy and net
operating income, he said. EPN stands to receive $553 million
from the sale, compared with a $332 million investment, he said.  “If we stay in it longer, there’s certainly upside, and
that’s the reason Blackstone and DDR are buying it,” Berman
said. “But the rate of return we will be able to generate in
later years would be lower than what we returned in the first
two years.”  Assumed Debt  The purchase price includes assumed debt of $640 million
and at least $305 million of new financing, according to the
statement. DDR will invest $150 million in preferred equity in
the venture and provide leasing and management services.  DDR also will have the right to make the first offer to
acquire 10 of the properties under certain conditions, which it
didn’t specify.  “This transaction enables the retention of significant fee
income and enhances our current ownership and future access to
prime assets,” Daniel B. Hurwitz, DDR’s president and chief
executive officer, said in the statement. The Beachwood, Ohio,
company owns stakes in and manages 538 discount centers with 134
million square feet in 41 states, Puerto Rico and  Brazil .  U.S. shopping centers had their first net gain in occupied
space in four years in the fourth quarter as  consumer confidence 
and job growth began to strengthen,  Reis Inc.  said earlier this
week. Landlords have struggled since the recession that ended in
2009 after weak sales drove more than a dozen retailers to file
for bankruptcy protection and online competition grew.  Kohl’s, PetSmart  The  properties  that Blackstone and DDR are buying have 10.6
million square feet (984,800 square meters) of space and are 90
percent leased. The largest tenants by base rent at the centers,
located in 20 states, include  TJX Cos. (TJX) ,  Kohl’s Corp. (KSS)  and
 PetSmart Inc. (PETM)   DDR had owned stakes in some of the centers previously. In
2003, the company sold some interests to a unit of  Macquarie
Group Ltd. (MQG) , which listed the assets on the Australian Stock
Exchange through the Macquarie DDR Trust. In 2009, DDR redeemed
its equity interest in the venture in exchange for full
ownership of three properties.  The trust was recapitalized and renamed EDT Retail Trust in
2010, with EPN providing a majority of the new equity capital
and getting a 47.8 percent stake. EPN acquired the rest of the
trust last August.  In December, Blackstone bought 36 shopping centers, mainly
in Atlanta and in Tampa and Orlando, Florida, for $473 million
from  Equity One Inc. (EQY)  Blackstone also has made a series of
acquisitions in upscale shopping malls, including a $500 million
investment in  General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP)  in 2010 as part of
the U.S. mall owner’s emergence from bankruptcy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at   hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at   dtaub@bloomberg.net  