-- Bonds Beating Gold for Funds on Slowest Inflation Since ’09: India Credit
-- B y   M a d e l e n e   P e a r s o n   a n d   S w a n s y   A f o n s o
-- 2012-01-13T08:47:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/bonds-beating-gold-for-funds-on-slower-inflation-india-credit.html
Investors in  India  are shunning gold
while adding to holdings of government bonds, betting that
policy makers will cut borrowing costs as inflation slows to the
least in two years.  Assets managed by funds that buy bullion shrank 4.3 percent
to 91.5 billion rupees ($1.8 billion) in December, while those
that trade in rupee-denominated sovereign debt increased 17
percent to 31.2 billion rupees, according to the Mumbai-based
 Association of Mutual Funds in India . Gold imports by the
world’s biggest buyer may slump 48 percent in the three months
ending March from a year earlier, the Bombay Bullion Association
said this month.  Government notes are rallying before data next week that
economists predict will show wholesale prices rose 7.4 percent
in December, compared with 9.11 percent in November, a sign that
seven interest-rate increases last year are taming price
pressures. The nation’s  10-year bonds  yield 8.22 percent, 82
basis points more than the inflation forecast.  China  has so-
called real  interest rates  of minus 70 basis points, while  South
Korea ’s are minus 40.  “Indian investors’ sacred affinity toward gold will be
tested by factors like real interest rates and investment
opportunities in other assets,” Ritesh Jain, the Mumbai-based
head of investment at Canara Robeco Asset Management Ltd. that
oversees $1.3 billion, said in an interview yesterday. “Demand
for gold in India may fall 25 percent to 30 percent in 2012.”  Borrowing Costs  The metal was being perceived as a hedge against  inflation 
through last year, Jain said, as increases in wholesale prices
held above 9 percent for 12 consecutive months through November.
This was especially so in rural India, where banking facilities
“continue to be dismal,” he said.  Funds that buy gold managed 2 percent of total assets
invested by India’s investors in  mutual funds  at the end of
December, compared with 20 percent overseen by those that trade
in bonds due in less than 12 months. Debt securities with
maturities longer than a year accounted for 49 percent, while
equities made up 23 percent.  The nation’s interest-rate swap market suggests that
borrowing costs will decline. The cost to lock in interest rates
for 12 months dropped three basis points, or 0.03 percentage
point, to 7.88 percent today. That’s 62 basis points below the
 Reserve Bank of India’s  8.5 percent repurchase rate. Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. predicts policy makers will cut the repo rate
by 1.5 percentage points this year, while Deutsche Bank AG
estimates a one percentage point reduction.  Rupee Advances  Global funds are adding to holdings of the nation’s debt
securities before the central bank reviews borrowing costs on
Jan. 24. International investors bought more rupee-denominated
notes than they sold for an eightth consecutive trading day on
Jan. 11, boosting their ownership this month by $2 billion to
$28.1 billion, according to exchange data.  The purchases are spurring a rally in  government bonds  and
the rupee. Yields on the nation’s  benchmark  8.79 percent notes
due in November 2021 have slumped 35 basis points this year
after increasing 65 basis points in 2011. The yield fell three
basis points to 8.22 percent today, according to the central
bank’s trading system.  The rupee, Asia’s worst-performing currency last year
following a 16 percent slide, gained 0.4 percent today to
51.3760 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
currency has strengthened 3.5 percent in 2012, the best
performance among the region’s 10 most-traded currencies.  Gold Slumps  Gold for immediate delivery, which gained 10 percent in
2011, has slid 14 percent after touching a record $1,921.15 an
ounce on Sept. 6 and traded at $1,647.02 today.  Imports of the metal may decline to 150 metric tons in the
three months through March, from 286 tons a year earlier, as the
rupee’s 2011 decline boosts prices, Prithviraj Kothari,
president of the Bombay Bullion Association, said in an
interview.  “If gold were to correct, especially in the near term, and
the rupee were to remain sideways, it wouldn’t augur very well
for the investor,” Lakshmi Iyer, head of fixed income and
products in Mumbai at Kotak Mahindra Asset Management Co. that
oversees $5.7 billion, said in an interview on Jan. 11.
“Sentiment is biased toward investing in fixed income over any
other asset class for now.”  The  cost  of protecting the debt of  State Bank  of India,
which some investors consider a proxy for the nation, is
climbing as  Europe ’s debt crisis dims the allure of emerging-
market assets.  Cultural Factors  Credit-default swaps on the lender cost 396 basis points
today after touching a two-year high of 405 on Jan. 9, according
to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices
quoted by dealers in privately negotiated markets. The swaps pay
the buyer face value for the underlying securities should a
company fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  With Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis spreading “like a
plague,” gold will continue to attract investment in 2012
because of its appeal as a haven, according to Reliance Capital
Asset Management Ltd.  Demand will also be supported by cultural factors as gold
is an important part of family occasions in India such as
weddings, Sundeep Sikka, the Mumbai-based chief executive
officer at Reliance Capital, said in an interview on Jan. 6.
Hindus, who account for about 80 percent of the nation’s
population, also consider buying gold auspicious during
religious festivals.  ‘Extremely Bullish’  “Demand for physical gold has always been strong in
India,” Sikka said. “The current global macroeconomic
environment is very conducive for higher  gold prices . The
fundamental outlook for gold remains extremely bullish.”  Slowing growth in  Asia ’s third-biggest economy will damp
demand for bullion, according to Canara Robeco’s Jain.  Sales of passenger cars in the nation fell almost 7 percent
from November to 159,325 units last month, according to data
from the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers . Gross
domestic product will rise about 7 percent in the year ending
March, Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  said on Jan. 8, less than a
prediction of 7.5 percent he made in December.  India’s bonds have returned 1.2 percent this month, the
best performance among 10 Asian local-currency debt markets
monitored by HSBC Holdings Plc. The difference in yields between
rupee-denominated notes due in a decade and similar-maturity
U.S. Treasuries has narrowed 32 basis points in January to 630.  “With easing of inflation, people aren’t thinking of
buying gold,” Chirag Mehta, Mumbai-based  fund manager  at
Quantum Asset Management Company, a unit of Quantum Advisors
Pvt. that manages about $1.1 billion, said in an interview
yesterday. “Investors are thinking that bond yields have peaked
and it’s a good time to invest in government bonds.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Madelene Pearson in Melbourne at 
 mpearson1@bloomberg.net ;
Swansy Afonso in Mumbai at 
 safonso2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  