-- Brazil Futures Yields Fall on U.S. Jobless Spike; Real Advances
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-01-12T15:08:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/brazil-futures-yields-fall-on-u-s-jobless-spike-real-advances.html
Yields on most Brazilian interest-
rate futures contracts fell after jobless claims in the U.S.
unexpectedly rose, overshadowing a surge in domestic retail
sales and damping bets that a recovery in the world’s largest
economy would fuel inflation and limit rate cuts.  Yields on the futures contract due in January 2016 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 11.07 percent
at 12:42 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , after earlier rising as much as four
basis points. The real rose for a third day in four, gaining 0.9
percent to 1.7866 per  U.S. dollar , from 1.8025 yesterday.  Futures yields pared increases after more Americans than
forecast filed applications for unemployment benefits last week,
damping global growth optimism. Yields also fell on a newspaper
report that Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff  may cut the 2012
budget by as much as 70 billion reais ($39.2 billion) early next
week as part of a plan to ensure the central bank will continue
to reduce  interest rates , according to  Vladimir Caramaschi ,
chief economist of Credit Agricole’s Brazilian unit.  The jobless figures “were a splash of cold water on the
optimism in the market,” Caramaschi said in a telephone
interview. The budget news “just anticipates spending cuts that
are expected to happen.”  Interest Rate  Rousseff estimates the benchmark interest rate may be
reduced to 10.5 percent from 11 percent next week if the
government shows its commitment to the 2012 fiscal target,
Brasilia-based Correio Braziliense reported today, without
saying how it obtained the information. Rousseff’s team sees
room for borrowing costs to be lowered to 9 percent this year,
the newspaper said.  The  Finance Ministry  declined to comment in an e-mailed
statement.  Policy makers have cut the benchmark lending rate 150 basis
points since August to 11 percent to shore up the economy.
Traders are wagering the central bank will reduce the Selic rate
to as low as 10 percent by May, interest-rate futures contracts
show.  The budget report overshadowed data showing Brazil’s
November retail sales rose 1.3 percent from October, surpassing
the 0.4 percent median estimate of 29 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. A 6.8 percent jump from a year earlier also exceeded
estimates.  “An increase was already expected, but the pace of gains
was stronger than anticipated,” Mauricio Nakahodo, senior
economist at CM Capital Markets, said by phone from Sao Paulo.  The real gained with most other major and emerging-market
currencies after Spain and  Italy  completed successful debt
auctions and inflation in  China  cooled to a 15-month low,
strengthening speculation the government will take steps to
boost the economic growth of Brazil’s biggest trading partner.  “With the drop in inflation, there could be a reduction of
 reserve requirements  in China,” Nakahodo said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  