-- Brazilian November Retail Sales Increase at Fastest Pace in 15 Months
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   J o s h u a   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-12T12:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/brazilian-november-retail-sales-increase-at-fastest-pace-in-15-months.html
Brazil ’s November  retail sales  rose
at the fastest pace in 15 months, sending the yield on interest-
rate futures contracts higher as traders pared bets on rate
cuts.  Sales climbed 1.3 percent from October, the national
statistics agency said today in  Rio de Janeiro . The median
estimate of 29 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for an
increase of 0.4 percent, with the highest estimate at 1 percent.
Sales rose 6.8 percent from a year earlier.  The jump in sales is being driven by higher  consumer
confidence  as the central bank cuts borrowing costs and the
government seeks to revive growth, said Enestor  Dos Santos ,
senior Brazil economist for BBVA in  Madrid . Dos Santos expects
the central bank to cut the benchmark Selic rate to 10 percent,
from 11 percent today, by the end of March.  “Today’s data show that activity is recovering,” Dos
Santos said, speaking by telephone from Madrid. “This could
reduce the room for additional monetary easing.”  The broader retail index, which includes the sale of cars
and construction materials, increased 3.2 percent from the
previous month, the statistics agency said.  The rebound in  consumer spending  points to gross domestic
product growth of 0.3 percent in the fourth quarter from the
previous three months, Dos Santos said.  Tax Cuts  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration is using tax cuts
and lower borrowing costs to try to revive growth in  Latin
America ’s biggest economy. Traders are wagering that the central
bank will cut its benchmark interest rate for a fourth straight
meeting next week, to 10.5 percent, according to Bloomberg
estimates based on interest rate futures yields.  The increase in consumer spending in November was led by an
8.6 percent monthly jump in sales of books, magazines and
stationary, and a 6 percent gain in sales of office and
communication equipment, as  consumer confidence  rose to a four-
month high. Fuel sales climbed 1.6 percent, compared with 0.7
percent in October.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini began cutting
 interest rates  in August, citing a “substantial deterioration”
in the world economy, as European debt turmoil spread.  White Goods  Brazil’s economy contracted in the third quarter for the
first time in more than two years. In December, the government
cut taxes on white goods including stoves, refrigerators and
energy-efficient home appliances, as well as on some food
staples.  Cia. Brasileira de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar,
Brazil’s biggest retailer, said today that total sales rose 20
percent to 15.1 billion reais in the fourth quarter. Sales in
2011 increased 46 percent to 52.7 billion reais ($29.5 billion),
the company said in a regulatory filing.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2013, the most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose 3 basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 10.04 percent at 9:52 a.m.
in Brasilia. The real strengthened 0.9 percent to 1.7866 per
dollar.  Annual inflation slowed for a third straight month in
December, to 6.50 percent, allowing Brazil to meet its inflation
target for an eighth straight year. The central bank  targets 
inflation of 4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 