-- Brent at Risk of Jump Toward $200 a Barrel, Mirae Asset Says
-- B y   P a u l   G o r d o n
-- 2012-01-12T17:05:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/brent-at-risk-of-jump-toward-200-a-barrel-mirae-asset-says-2-.html
Brent oil is at risk of a jump
toward $200 a barrel if economic sanctions against  Iran  lead to
military action in the  Persian Gulf , according to Mirae Asset
Securities HK Ltd.  “We cannot rule out a potential short-term price spike,”
 Gordon Kwan , the Hong Kong-based head of regional energy
research at Mirae, said in a report e-mailed today. Kwan, the
most-accurate forecaster for New York oil among 26 analysts
ranked by Bloomberg in the two years ended June 2011, predicts
London-traded Brent will average $115 a barrel this year. It
climbed as much as 2.6 percent to $115.12 today on the ICE
Futures Europe exchange and was trading at $113.72 at 4:52 p.m.
London time.  The European benchmark has risen 4.8 percent since Dec. 23,
the day before Iran’s navy began exercises near the  Strait of
Hormuz , a transit route for a fifth of the world’s oil. Iran has
threatened to shut the channel in response to western sanctions.
The U.S. would act to reopen the strait, Joint Chiefs of Staff
Chairman General Martin Dempsey said Jan. 8.  Iran’s Revolutionary Guards Corp will start more naval
exercises Jan. 27 in the Persian Gulf with the aim of enhancing
the country’s ability to close the strait, Mehr News said in a
Jan. 7 report citing Esmaeil Kowsari, a member of the
parliament’s National Security and Foreign Policy Committee.  Sanctions Talks  European Union foreign ministers are scheduled to decide at
a Jan. 23 meeting in Brussels when and how to phase in an
embargo on Iranian oil.  Japan, the second-biggest buyer of Iranian crude, wants
“to take concrete steps to reduce our share” of imports,
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today at a press briefing in
Tokyo with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner . The
comments are “one of several opinions” and not government
policy, Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said later.  China, Iran’s biggest customer for crude, yesterday
rejected an oil embargo as Geithner visited the country. Total
Chinese petroleum imports will rise to a record this year, Kwan
said in the note.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Gordon  at 
 pgordon6@bloomberg.net  