-- Brevan Howard Proves Master of Hedge Funds With Four in Top 100
-- B y   R i c h a r d   T e i t e l b a u m   a n d   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k
-- 2012-01-12T00:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/brevan-howard-proves-master-of-hedge-funds-with-four-in-top-100.html
When  Alan Howard  set off for a
business trip to  India  as a young Salomon Brothers bond trader
in the late 1980s, colleagues advised against drinking local
water. When he got back, the buzz on his trading desk was about
the huge tab Howard had run up buying cases of Evian water,
according to a person who worked with him at the time.  The London native joked that he not only didn’t drink from
the tap, he used the imported bottled water to bathe, shave and
wash his hair.  Today, the co-founder of the $32.6 billion hedge-fund
juggernaut Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP still makes it his
business to keep out of harm’s way. From Howard’s trading desk
in Geneva, former colleagues say, he obsesses daily about fat-
tail risks, black swans or the mere possibility that his
economic outlook may be wrong.  In 2011, Howard’s risk aversion served him well. The $26.4
billion  Brevan Howard  Master Fund Ltd. returned a solid 10.8
percent for the 10 months ended Oct. 31, ranking the fund No. 20
in the Bloomberg Markets ranking of the 100 best-performing
 hedge funds .  The firm had three other funds on the large-fund list: the
$1.7 billion Brevan Howard Asia Master Fund Ltd., at No. 31 with
a 7.2 percent return; the $1.3 billion Brevan Howard Multi-
Strategy Master Fund Ltd., tied at No. 43 with a 5.5 percent
return; and the $2 billion Credit Catalysts Master Fund Ltd.,
tied for No. 74 with a 3.2 percent return.  Navigating Crises  The Master Fund also ranks as the fifth-most profitable in
the 10-month period, earning an estimated $637.8 million for the
firm, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  During a 25-year career, the ever-cautious Howard has
successfully navigated a host of crises, including the bond
market rout of 1994, the collapse of Long-Term Capital
Management LP, which roiled markets in 1998, and the financial
meltdown of 2008.  Since its start in April 2003, the Master Fund has never
posted a negative calendar-year return. Its Sharpe ratio of 1.96
from inception means that, on a risk-adjusted basis, it has
generated more than four times the return of the  S&P 500 Index .  “When he senses danger, he is not afraid to enforce his
view very forcefully,” says Zoeb Sachee, head of European
government debt agency/covered bonds at  Citigroup Inc. (C)  in
London, who worked with Howard at Salomon. “The speed of exit
was quite remarkable.”  A Dismal Year  The 2011 gains came during a year in which hedge funds
posted dismal returns amid skyrocketing bond yields across parts
of the  euro zone  and tumbling share prices.  The average fund fell 2.8 percent, according to Bloomberg
data. Macro funds such as the Master Fund -- which use
currencies,  government bonds  and derivatives to wager on changes
in the global economy -- were even bigger losers, falling 3.3
percent for the first 10 months of 2011.  “The years Alan does best are when others are doing
poorly,” says a former Salomon colleague. “He’s extraordinarily
competitive.”  Brevan Howard’s 2011 gains derive largely from the firm’s
pessimistic macroeconomic outlook, says Ian Plenderleith,
chairman of  BH Macro Ltd. (BHMG) , a  London  Stock Exchange-listed
closed-end fund that invests exclusively in the Master Fund.
Other investors expected a strengthening recovery. Howard
forecast a steep economic deceleration -- or even a slip into a
double-dip recession.  Piling into Treasuries  After concluding that the major developed-market central
banks would ease  interest rates  to fight a new economic
downturn, the Master Fund piled into  U.S. Treasuries , U.K. gilts
and German bunds.  “They positioned their interest-rate exposures to take
advantage of falling yields,” Plenderleith says.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries fell to 2.11 percent on Oct.
31 from 3.33 percent at the start of the year, Bloomberg data
show. In August alone, the Master Fund gained 6.2 percent.  “He excels at being a contrarian,” says one former Brevan
Howard trader. “If he is swayed by popular opinion, it’s on the
side of going against it.”  Brevan doesn’t always fight the tide. In June 2010, Howard
relocated to Geneva from London, joining other hedge-fund
managers who moved to  Switzerland  after the U.K. government
announced plans to raise taxes on top earners. Brevan’s offices
are less than 100 meters (328 feet) from Geneva’s priciest
shopping street. Howard’s wife is French, and the family has
often vacationed nearby.  Salomon Veteran  Howard, 48, who declined to be interviewed for this
article, earned a master’s degree in chemical engineering from
Imperial College in London in 1986 and joined Salomon the same
year. After a stint at Tokai Bank Ltd., now part of  Mitsubishi
UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) , he landed at  Credit Suisse First
Boston , where he rose to become head of fixed-income proprietary
trading in London before leaving to start Brevan Howard in 2003.  In October, Brevan Howard said it would return about $2
billion of capital to Master Fund investors in order to keep
assets at about $25 billion. Closed-end funds BH Macro and  BH
Global Ltd. (BHGG) , which in October was invested in a combination of
six Brevan Howard funds, are exempt.  Broad economic bets are only one facet of Brevan Howard’s
expertise. The firm -- employing more than 60 traders plus other
employees in offices as far-flung as London,  New York ,
 Washington ,  Sao Paulo ,  Tel Aviv  and  Hong Kong  -- is known for
quick in-and-out moves to take advantage of temporary market
inefficiencies.  Variance Swaps  For instance, the firm has traded so-called variance swaps
-- derivatives that allow it to bet on the severity of market
price swings -- to take advantage of mispriced  stock volatility 
in the U.S. and Korean markets.  “When the big themes are played out, they can switch to
more tactical opportunities,” says Lee Partridge, chief
investment officer at Salient Partners LP, a Houston-based
investment firm.  In 2010, there were three major themes in Howard’s macro
investments, according to the 2010 BH Macro manager’s report:
The Master Fund bet against short-term European bonds in the
first quarter, shorted the euro in the third quarter and was
bullish on U.S. bonds of five years or under in the fourth
quarter.  All three bets proved unprofitable, yet the fund still
managed a gain for the year of about 1 percent because of
Howard’s skill at tactical trading, particularly in foreign
exchange, the report said.  Treacherous Markets  Beyond particular trades, Brevan Howard’s strength is in
risk control. Howard personally sniffs out treacherous market
developments and cuts losses lightning fast.  “He had an absolute focus on the bottom line,” says Simon Meadows, a former Salomon colleague who’s now head of business
development at Lucidus Capital Partners LLP in London. “He
doesn’t get wedded to positions. If it comes across as a short
attention span, it’s actually a strength in that he is able to
turn his attention to new and different things.”  Howard demands strong performance from his traders, who are
given written “mandates” describing the instruments they’re
allowed to trade in which markets, and how much capital they can
risk. Those who generate gains get a slice of them in their
paychecks and may get additional capital. Traders whose
portfolios fall will likely have the money they manage cut or be
directed to change tactics and lower risk.  Large or extended losses warrant a “time-out” -- a shutdown
in trading that may end in resignation or dismissal.  Personnel turnover, which a Brevan Howard spokesman says is
lower than at rival firms, isn’t something investors such as
Partridge worry about.  “They are quick to act if something isn’t working out,” he
says. “That’s part of being in the hedge-fund business.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Teitelbaum in New York at 
 rteitelbaum1@bloomberg.net ; Jesse Westbrook in 
London at   jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Serrill at 
 mserrill@bloomberg.net . 