-- British Insurers Told to Drop ‘Sharp Practices’ on Car Claims
-- B y   K e v i n   C r o w l e y
-- 2012-01-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/british-insurers-told-to-drop-sharp-practices-on-car-claims.html
Britain’s insurers should abandon
“sharp practices” driving up the cost of auto premiums and the
government ought to make it harder for whiplash claims to 
succeed, according to a House of Commons committee.  Soaring costs of uncontested whiplash claims have caused
motor insurance premiums to spiral and need to be curbed, the
cross-party  Transport Committee  said in a report published today.
The report also criticized insurers for “sharp practices”
including selling customer data to lawyers to push up claims
costs for rival insurance companies.  “The threshold for receiving compensation in whiplash
cases should be raised and, if the number of such claims does
not fall significantly, the Government should bring forward
primary legislation to require objective evidence” before a
claim is paid, Louise Ellman, chairman of the committee, said in
a statement.  British car insurance premiums rose to record levels in
2011 after years of surging personal injury claims caught up
with insurers, forcing them to raise prices. Car insurers,
claims management firms and brokers have been blamed by members
of Parliament including former Justice Secretary Jack Straw, for
selling information about customers to no-win no-fee lawyers and
car-rental firms, who then pursue claims from rival insurance
companies.  The amount paid in claims by insurance companies rose 28
percent to 10.3 billion pounds in 2010, according to data
compiled by the  Association of British Insurers . The number of
accidents on British roads fell 18 percent to about 154,000 in
the four years to 2010, according to the  Department for
Transport .  ‘Personal Data’  “Drivers should not be railroaded by cold callers into
launching legal action,” Ellman said. “The  insurance industry 
must abandon sharp practices that push up premiums such as
passing drivers’ personal data to other parties or taking
secretive referral fees from solicitors, garages and car hire
firms.”  Justice Minister Jonathan Djanogly said in September he
will ban insurers receiving referral fees from lawyers as part
of an overhaul of the legal system. The committee today warned
the move would be ineffective if solely targeted at lawyers and
that the fees should be banned outright.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kevin Crowley in London at 
 kcrowley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 