-- Broker Fiduciary Rule Delayed by Cost-Benefit Analysis, SEC Says
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-12T22:52:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/broker-fiduciary-rule-delayed.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission’s effort to impose a fiduciary duty on brokerage
firms has been delayed for additional cost-benefit analysis,
according to a letter from Chairman  Mary Schapiro .  SEC economists are still working on the initial proposal
for the rule, trying to quantify its impact, Schapiro wrote in
a Jan. 10 letter to Representative  Scott Garrett , a New Jersey
Republican. A federal court setback in July has caused the SEC
to rethink the cost-benefit assessments in its rulemaking.  The rule, authorized by the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act, would
impose a fiduciary standard on broker-dealers that is as
rigorous as the one for investment advisers, requiring them to
put retail clients’ interests before their own. Currently,
brokers are required only to provide advice “suitable” to
customers at the moment of the sale.  The SEC released a study a year ago this month recommending
the change, citing customer confusion over the difference
between a broker and an investment adviser.  Retail customers “may not necessarily have the
sophistication, information, or access needed to represent
themselves effectively in today's market and to pursue their
financial goals,’’ the study said. The SEC’s two Republican
commissioners dissented from the report.  The agency originally planned to issue a proposed rule in
2011. Schapiro said in a December interview that the rule, which
has no deadline in Dodd-Frank, would likely be completed
sometime this year instead. On Dec. 30, it was removed from the
rulemaking calendar posted on the agency’s website.  Court Ruling  In July, an unrelated SEC rule was rejected by a federal
court, citing an agency failure to fully study the rule’s cost
to companies. Since then, the agency has been ‘‘redoubling”
efforts to study cost-benefit effects of its rules, Meredith Cross, chief of the SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance, said
in November.  House Republicans  have voiced concern about the rule,
pressing the SEC to conduct a cost-benefit analysis before any
proposals are released for comment.  Schapiro’s letter was in response to a December letter from
Garrett, chairman of the House Financial Services subcommittee
that oversees the agency, requesting data on the progress the
agency has made in analyzing the costs and benefits of a
proposal.  Garrett, in his Dec. 21 letter, said that a hearing held by
his subcommittee on the issue in September produced a
“consensus view that there is currently no evidentiary basis
for proposing new standard-of-conduct regulations.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Hamilton in Washington at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  