-- California High-Speed Rail Suffers Setbacks With 2 Top Officials Leaving
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-01-13T18:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/california-high-speed-rail-chief-to-resign-spokeswoman-says-1-.html
Plans for bullet trains to
crisscross  California (STOCA1)  at 220 miles per hour (354 kilometers per
hour) face new questions after the chief executive officer and
board chairman of the project both said they would leave their
positions.  Roelof van Ark, CEO of the California High-Speed Rail
Authority since June 2010, will step down in about two months,
Rachel Wall, a spokeswoman, said yesterday by e-mail. Tom Umberg
will relinquish his position as chairman, while remaining a
board member, she said.  California is the only state working to build tracks for
high-speed trains, which are to connect San Francisco to  Los
Angeles  by 2033. A review panel on Jan. 3 recommended against
selling bonds for the $98.5 billion project. This week,
Republicans in the Legislature introduced a  bill  to prevent the
bond sales, calling the train service a “lemon.” Governor
 Jerry Brown  said the state should move forward with the project.  The departures are “clearly a sign from people who are
trying to make this happen that” van Ark and Umberg “were not
on a path to making this happen,” Mortimer Downey, a former U.S. 
deputy transportation secretary, said in a phone interview.  Van Ark’s resignation “should have happened sooner,” said
Downey, who held the post from 1993 to 2001.  ‘Common Agreement’  “Roelof van Ark and Tom Umberg spearheaded California
High-Speed Rail through its earliest stages of planning and
development and I thank them for their service,” Brown said in
a statement e-mailed by  Gil Duran , a spokesman. He said Brown, a
Democrat, continues to support the rail project.  Asked whether Brown requested van Ark’s resignation, Duran
replied, “There was common agreement that this is a good time
for transition.”  Dan Richard, a co-founder of Heritage Oak Capital Partners,
an infrastructure finance firm, will succeed Umberg as chairman,
said Wall. Richard was an elected member of the  San Francisco 
Bay Area Rapid Transit District from 1992 to 2004, twice serving
as president of the board, according to his  biography  on the
rail authority’s website.  The emergence of Richard, who is close to Brown, “is a
sign that the governor is not walking away from the project and
that it’s going to move ahead to some sort of pragmatic
solution,” Downey said. “Dan’s political skills and project-
development skills are very good.”  Governor’s Reputation  Van Ark’s responsibility as CEO was to make sure that
people thought the rail project was “worth spending taxpayer
dollars on, and he obviously hasn’t been doing a very good job
of that,” Joshua Schank, CEO of the Washington-based Eno Center
for Transportation, said in a phone interview.  Brown’s reputation is on the line, said Schank, who advised
 Hillary Clinton  on transportation when she served as Democratic
senator from  New York .  “Governor Brown is sticking behind this thing even in the
face of a lot of challenges and putting himself in the position
where he’s going to be defined by this,” Schank said. “That
doesn’t mean it couldn’t be turned around. If it were rethought
a bit and if you have someone good” to replace van Ark, the
governor could convince Californians the project is still worth
doing, he said.  Government Funding  Fitch Ratings analysts yesterday wrote that the project
“is likely to struggle under the weight of state cuts and a
voting public that will continue to feel the effects of the
economic downturn.”  The state, which has received $3.5 billion in U.S. funds
for the project, has said it would need $17 billion to $19
billion. Congress eliminated high-speed rail funds requested for
2012.  “As the federal funding partner, the Department of
Transportation continues to support  California ,” Justin Nisly,
an agency spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. “We look
forward to working with the entire board on this critical and
transformative transportation initiative.”  California voters in 2008 approved the sale of $9.95
billion in bonds to help finance the train. Most of the bonds
haven’t been sold.  Jobs, Carbon Emissions  Brown and the Democratic heads of the state Assembly and
Senate have expressed support for the rail project, saying it
would create thousands of jobs and transport passengers among
California’s major metropolitan areas with lower emissions than
driving or flying.  Brown’s proposed budget for the fiscal year beginning July
1 proposes  $15.9 million  in funding for the rail authority, with
the money earmarked for administration and project management.  U.S. Representative  Kevin McCarthy , a Bakersfield
Republican whose district would be bisected by the rail line,
said earlier this week that the project should be abandoned due
to a lack of long-term funding.  “It’s like you have enough money to build the foundation
of a house but just have to hope you’ll get the rest later to
actually build,” he said to reporters at a briefing in
 Sacramento . “I just think it’s wrong. You can’t afford it.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Lisa Caruso in Washington at 
 lcaruso7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  