-- Canadian Freestyle Skier Burke Has Brain Surgery After Training Accident
-- B y   R o b   G l o s t e r
-- 2012-01-12T21:23:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/canadian-freestyle-skier-burke-in-coma-following-halfpipe-accident-in-utah.html
Canadian freestyle skier Sarah Burke
is in critical condition following brain surgery, two days after
a halfpipe training accident at  Utah ’s Park City Mountain
Resort.  Burke, 29, a four-time superpipe Winter X Games champion
and the 2005 halfpipe world champion, had surgery yesterday at
the University of Utah Hospital in  Salt Lake City  to repair an
artery that supplies blood to the brain.  “With injuries of this type, we need to observe the course
of her brain function before making definitive pronouncements
about Sarah’s prognosis for recovery,” Dr. William T.
Couldwell, who performed the surgery, said in a statement
released by Burke’s publicist.  Burke, who had been expected to defend her 2011 Winter X
Games title later this month in Aspen,  Colorado , pushed
successfully to get halfpipe added to the program for the 2014
Winter Olympics in Sochi,  Russia .  “Sarah is a very strong young woman and she will most
certainly fight to recover,” her husband, freestyle skier Rory
Bushfield, said from her bedside in a  statement  released
yesterday by the  Canadian Freestyle Ski Association .  Peter Judge, chief executive officer of the Canadian
freestyle team, said he was told that Burke landed a trick at
the bottom of the halfpipe and “kind of bounced from her feet
to her head,” according to the Toronto Globe and Mail.  Kevin Pearce, an American snowboarder, suffered a serious
brain injury in a training run on the same halfpipe in Park City
on Dec. 31, 2009. He returned to the slopes last month.  Jen Hudak, an American halfpipe skier who has won two world
championship medals, told  USA Today  that “this is a very scary
moment in women’s freeskiing.”  Slam Hard  “I skied the pipe the day before and it was good,” Hudak
said. “Park City’s pipe is notoriously the steepest and
gnarliest pipe in the world, really quick transitions and when
you get caught slightly off, you slam hard.”  Judge described Burke as “the top female halfpipe athlete
in the world.”  “She was instrumental in launching the sport and has
continued to be a leader moving towards the sport’s Olympic
debut in 2014,” Judge said in the association’s statement.
“She is an incredibly resilient and strong young woman and we
are hoping she will draw on that strength at this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Gloster in  San Francisco  at 
 rgloster@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  