-- CFTC Offered to Settle Suit for $175,000, Jailed Commodities Trader Says
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-01-12T16:46:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/cftc-offered-to-settle-lawsuit-for-175-000-ex-commodities-trader-says.html
An ex-commodities trader who pleaded
guilty to threatening to kill financial regulators, including
Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman  Gary Gensler , said
the CFTC offered to settle a civil case against him for a
$175,000 fine and a lifetime ban from the industry.  Vincent P. McCrudden, awaiting sentencing in a Queens,  New
York , jail, told U.S. District Judge Denis R. Hurley in  Central
Islip , New York, about the offer in a letter made public Jan. 9.
Settlement negotiations on Dec. 12 were unsuccessful, according
to an order by U.S. Magistrate Judge A. Kathleen Tomlinson, who,
according to McCrudden “endorsed” the CFTC’s offer.  McCrudden, 50, pleaded guilty to two counts of transmission
of threats to injure before opening arguments were scheduled to
begin in his trial on July 18. The charges carry a maximum
sentence of 10 years in prison. According to the government, he
posted an “execution” list on his company  website  after the
CFTC accused him in the December 2010 lawsuit of illegally
starting his Hybrid Fund II LP in 2008 without registering it.  ‘Manpower and Money’  “It’s a shame the CFTC is allowed to pursue, and commit
valuable resources and millions of taxpayer dollars on a small
business person like me,” McCrudden wrote in his letter, dated
Jan. 5. “Manpower and money that could have been better
utilized in pursuit of real regulation and enforcement like the
current situation of MF Global and the alleged misappropriation
of segregated customer funds in the astonishing amount of
greater than US $1 billion.”  The trustee overseeing the liquidation of MF Global Inc.
has said the failed brokerage formerly run by ex-New Jersey
Governor  Jon Corzine  had a shortfall in segregated customer
accounts in the U.S. of $1.2 billion or more.  Dennis Holden, a CFTC spokesman, declined to comment on the
settlement negotiations.  Hurley is presiding over both the CFTC suit and the
criminal case.  McCrudden, who also ran his own  hedge funds , was accused of
threatening the lives of 47 current and former officials,
including Gensler and Securities and Exchange Commission
Chairwoman Mary L. Schapiro.  McCrudden has been held without bail since he was arrested
in January 2011 returning from  Singapore . He was charged with
threatening the regulators in profanity-filled e-mails and,
after the CFTC sued him, Web postings. McCrudden had said he was
being persecuted for fighting back against unfair regulatory
actions that destroyed his career.  E-Mails Sent  McCrudden wrote in a Sept. 30 e-mail to Daniel A. Driscoll,
chief operating officer of the  National Futures Association ,
that he had hired people to kill him.  “It wasn’t ever a question of ‘if’ I was going to kill
you, it was just a question of when,” McCrudden wrote,
according to prosecutors in the office of U.S. Attorney Loretta E. Lynch in  Brooklyn , New York.  The e-mail was sent in CFTC Chairman Gensler’s name. Its
language and origin in Singapore pointed to McCrudden, the
government said. McCrudden moved from  Long Beach , New York, to
the Southeast Asian country in September because his fiancée had
gotten a position there. He previously denied sending the
e-mail.  McCrudden’s legal and regulatory entanglements began in
2000 when he was criminally charged with masking shortfalls in
statements to his hedge-fund investors. The government alleged
he included in his results money he expected to get from a
lawsuit after  Sumitomo Corp. (8053)  was accused of manipulating the
copper market.  In 2003, a federal jury in Central Islip,  Long Island ,
acquitted McCrudden of 15 counts of mail fraud.  The criminal case is U.S. v. McCrudden, 11-cr-61, and the
civil case is U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission v.
McCrudden, 10-cv-5567, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
New York (Central Islip).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 