-- Chicago Snow Causes Nationwide Air Traffic Delays as 460 Flights Canceled
-- B y   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n   a n d   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-01-12T19:50:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/chicago-region-snowstorm-forces-airlines-to-cancel-more-than-400-flights.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) ,
 AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) ’s American Airlines and  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) 
canceled more than 460 flights in  Chicago  as a snowstorm moves
through the area and delays ripple throughout the nation.  United, the world’s largest carrier, scrubbed 200 flights
at Chicago O’Hare International Airport, including 20 percent of
flights on its main jet fleet and 25 percent by regional
partners, said Mary Ryan, a spokeswoman for the Chicago-based
company.  Ninety-minute delays were reported at Chicago’s O’Hare
earlier today, while  New Jersey ’s Newark Liberty International
Airport and Philadelphia each had hour-long delays for some
flights because of wind and low visibility, respectively,
according to  FlightAware.com , which tracks flight data. More
than 840 flights have been canceled across the U.S. today, the
site said.  Snow accumulations may reach 8 inches in the Chicago area,
said Charles Mott, a National Weather Service meteorologist in
Romeoville,  Illinois . The weather service has issued winter
storm warnings and advisories stretching across the Midwest.  A winter weather advisory means falling snow will make
travel difficult. A winter storm warning means significant
snowfall is expected and travel will be dangerous.  American Airlines  and its American Eagle regional carrier
scrubbed 166 flights, Mary Frances Fagan, a company spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail. O’Hare is a hub for American and United
Continental.  Southwest said it stopped all service at Midway Airport
between 1 and 6 p.m. That amounted to about 100 flights, the
Chicago Department of Aviation said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  