-- Chile Unexpectedly Cuts Interest Rate to 5% on Slowdown in Global Growth
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-01-12T21:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/chile-unexpectedly-cuts-interest-rate-to-5-on-slowdown-in-global-growth.html
Chile ’s central bank unexpectedly
cut its  benchmark interest rate  for the first time in more than
two years as growth in the world’s leading copper producer shows
signs of slowing.  The four-member policy board, led for the second time by
bank President Rodrigo Vergara, reduced the overnight rate by a
quarter-point to 5 percent today, matching the forecast of four
of 20 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . Sixteen expected policy
makers to keep rates unchanged for a seventh straight month.  Chile joins  Brazil  in cutting  interest rates  to boost
growth, even after inflation in the Andean nation exceeded the
upper limit of central bank’s target in December. With the
highest borrowing costs among major rate-setting economies in
 Latin America , the two countries have space to keep stimulating
growth if the European sovereign-debt crisis deteriorates.  The impact on the Chilean economy is “already taking place
and opens space to cut rates,” Cristobal Doberti, chief
economist at Santiago-based Bice Inversiones, said by phone
today. “We expect three quarter-point cuts in the first
quarter, which is a moderate rather than aggressive reduction.”  Additional changes to the benchmark interest rate will
depend on internal and external economic conditions and their
impact on Chilean inflation, the central bank said in a
statement accompanying today’s decision.  Rate Forecasts  Policy makers will lower the key rate to 4.5 percent by
June and to 4.25 percent by the end of the year, according to
the median estimate of 60 economists in a Jan. 10 central bank
survey.  According to the same survey, the economy will expand 4
percent in December from the year earlier, matching growth seen
in November, while gains in gross domestic product will moderate
to 4 percent this year from 6.2 percent in 2011.  “On the local front, economic activity and internal demand
have evolved in line with projections,” the bank said in
today’s statement.  Chile’s Finance Minister Felipe Larrain, a non-voting
participant of central bank meetings, last week told reporters a
rate reduction would be “reasonable” in January.  “It’s evident the Chilean economy is decelerating,” he
said. “We’re still growing, but at a lower rate than the first
half of last year. The effects of the external crisis have
affected us somewhat.”  The price of copper, Chile’s largest export, declined 21
percent last year and industrial production in October fell for
the first time since the aftermath of the 8.8-magnitude
earthquake in February 2010.  Inflation Accelerates  Larrain’s comments came before the statistics agency
reported that consumer prices jumped a greater-than-expected 0.6
percent in December, pushing annual inflation to 4.4 percent,
the fastest pace since April 2009.  “Headline and core inflation in December were higher than
expected because of the prices of perishables and other food,”
the bank said in today’s statement. “Inflationary expectations
remain around the target.”  A report by the central bank’s research department
yesterday said December’s jump in prices largely reflected
short-term factors such as gains in fruit and vegetables as well
as the impact of a weaker peso. The bank estimates inflation
will slow to 2.7 percent this year.  Economists including Alejandro Puente at Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Santiago changed their forecast from a
rate cut to another hold in January after the December inflation
report. Policy makers target 3 percent inflation, plus or minus
one percentage point.  The peso strengthened 1.2 percent to 499.89 per  U.S. dollar 
today. The Chilean currency has gained 3.9 percent so far this
month, trailing the Colombian peso and the Brazilian real.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  