-- Chile May Keep Rate at 5.25% After Inflation Breached Target
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-01-12T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/chile-may-keep-rate-at-5-25-after-inflation-breached-target.html
Chilean policy makers probably will
keep the  benchmark interest rate  unchanged today after inflation
breached the central bank’s target for the first time in almost
three years.  The four-member policy board, led for the second time by
bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will keep the overnight rate at
5.25 percent for a seventh straight month, according to 14 of 18
economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . Four expect a quarter-point
cut. The bank will announce its decision after 4 p.m. local
time.  Europe ’s debt crisis and five rate increases in the past
year have helped rein in economic growth, while failing to
prevent inflation from accelerating in each of the past five
months. Last month’s 0.6 percent jump in prices, which exceeded
all 12 estimates of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg, caused
economists including Alejandro Puente to revise their forecasts
for an  interest rate  cut this month.  “The surprise in December was quite big,” Puente, an
economist at Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA in Santiago,
said by phone yesterday. It “didn’t just reflect so-called one-
time factors.”  Last month’s increase in consumer prices pushed annual
inflation up to 4.4 percent from 3.9 percent a month earlier,
exceeding the top of the central bank’s target of 2 percent to 4
percent over two years for the first time since April 2009.  ‘Great Challenge’  While traders surveyed by the central bank two weeks ago
had forecast a rate cut today, a Banco Central de  Chile  survey
of traders and investors published yesterday had policy makers
keeping the rate at 5.25 percent today with reductions to 4.75
percent by April and 4.5 percent by July.  “The monetary policy rate will follow a trajectory that in
the short term is comparable to results of different surveys,”
Vergara told senators last month. “Our great challenge right
now is to face as best we can the effects of the external crisis
on our country. To do so, we will have to use our experience as
well as the instruments available.”  The bank last cut rates in July 2009, a year when  South
America ’s fifth-largest economy entered a recession. As the
global economy slows once again, policy makers will probably
return to rate cuts, economist  Alberto Ramos  said.  “The option value of waiting a bit longer before cutting
seems high,” Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s Ramos wrote in a Jan. 6
note to investors.  Copper Slump  The world’s  top copper producer  is feeling the effects of a
global deceleration already. Copper prices slumped 21 percent
last year and industrial output in October fell for the first
time since the aftermath of the February 2010 earthquake that
caused an estimated $30 billion in damage.  As a result, Chile will have a “hard time” reaching its
goal of 5 percent growth this year after expanding as much as
6.3 percent in 2011, Finance Minister Felipe Larrain said last
week.  Elsewhere in the region,  Mexico  last month kept its
benchmark rate unchanged at 4.5 percent for a 23rd straight
meeting, while  Colombia  left its key rate at 4.75 percent in
December after raising it in November. Chile’s annual inflation
is faster than that in Colombia and Mexico.  Consumer price pressures may decline in Chile this year as
the Euro area debt crisis erodes global growth, with inflation
slipping to 3 percent in 12 months, according to yesterday’s
survey of traders and investors.  “Inflation expectations remain well anchored,” Luis Arcentales, an economist at Morgan Stanley, wrote in a Jan. 9
report. “We would argue against those that believe that the
Chilean central bank is falling behind the curve. The monetary
authorities appear ready to act aggressively, as they did in
2009, if the external backdrop were to turn much weaker.”  Chile’s peso strengthened 0.4 percent to 506.07 per  U.S.
dollar  yesterday. The currency has gained 2.7 percent so far
this year, trailing the Colombian peso and Brazilian real.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 