-- China Stocks Fall for Second Day as Profit Concerns Trump Easing Inflation
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-12T07:53:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/china-s-stocks-decline-as-inflation-data-signals-slowdown-is-accelerating.html
China’s stocks  fell for a second day
as speculation corporate earnings growth will slow because of
the decelerating economy overshadowed a government report
showing inflation eased.  Chongqing Department Store (600729)  Co. dropped the most since
November 2008 after profit trailed analysts’ estimates.
Northeast Securities Co. led a decline for brokerages after it
posted a loss last year. Changzhou Eging Photovoltaic Technology
Co. and Shanghai Chaori Solar Energy Science & Technology Co.
jumped more than 3 percent after a government body said China
plans to double solar capacity this year.  “The risks of an economic slowdown on earnings growth have
yet to be fully known, making the market volatile,” said  Zhang Ling , general manager at Shanghai River Fund Management Co.
“Slowing inflation is positive news and that allows the
government to further relax tightening policies and add more
liquidity to the economy and the stock market.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 1.04 point, or 0.1
percent, to 2,275.01 at the close, erasing a gain of as much as
0.8 percent. About six stocks fell every five that rose on the
measure. The  CSI 300 Index  lost less than 0.1 percent to
2,435.22. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index , the measure of the
most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, retreated 0.2 percent
yesterday in  New York .  Stocks rose earlier after a report from the statistics
bureau showed inflation moderated for a fifth straight month in
December. Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent, compared with the
median estimate of 4 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 26
economists and 4.2 percent in November. Producer prices
increased 1.7 percent, the smallest gain in two years, it said.  Inflation, GDP Data  While lower inflation should provide officials with greater
scope to ease policy in the months ahead, full-scale policy
reversal isn’t on the agenda as senior officials favor
“prudent” monetary policy,  Brian Jackson , strategist at Royal
Bank of Canada, said in a report.  China’s economic growth may have slowed to 8.7 percent from
a year earlier in the fourth quarter of 2011, according the
median  estimate  of 24 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
data are scheduled to be released Jan. 17. UBS AG estimates the
pace of expansion may slow to 7.7 percent this quarter.  Chongqing Department Store plunged 8.7 percent to 28.61
yuan. Net income increased 14 percent from a year earlier to
599.3 million yuan in 2011, the company said in a preliminary
statement yesterday. That  missed  the median estimate of 678
million yuan in a survey by Bloomberg News of five analysts.
Fourth-quarter revenue rose 8.5 percent, lagging behind the
“two-digit” growth of rivals, said Qian Bing and Guo Haiyan,
analysts at  China  International Capital Corp.  Slowing Earnings  Dashang Group Co., a retailer based in the northeast
Liaoning province, slid 5.1 percent to 29.48 yuan. Beijing
Wangfujing Department Store (Group) Co. fell 3.8 percent to
31.22 yuan.  Northeast Securities led declines for brokerages,
retreating 0.9 percent to 13.06 yuan after posting a loss of
151.9 million yuan last year. China Everbright Securities Co., a
unit of the nation’s largest state-owned investment group, slid
0.7 percent to 10.42 yuan after it reported a loss of 75 million
yuan in December.  Chinese listed companies have started to announce annual
earnings reports and will finish before the end of April. Nine
companies in the Shanghai Composite have released annual profits
for 2011 so far, with an average gain of 29 percent, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. That compared with an increase of
38 percent in the previous year.  Shanghai Index  Earnings growth for the 300 companies in the CSI 300 may
slow to 5 percent compared with the consensus estimate of 19
percent, Manop Sangiambut, head of China A-share research at
CLSA Asia-Pacific Markets, said in a report dated Jan. 10.  The Shanghai Composite has advanced 3.4 percent this year
on speculation the government will add to a Nov. 30 cut in
lenders’ reserve requirements ratio to spur more lending to
small companies hurt by a cash crunch. A central bank report
released over the weekend showed new lending and money supply
exceeded estimates in December. Import growth fell to a two-year
low in December, the customs office said this week.  The Shanghai gauge trades at 9.3 times estimated earnings,
up from a record low of 8.9 times reached on Jan. 6, according
to weekly  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The index plunged 22
percent last year after the central bank raised  interest rates 
and reserve requirement ratios to combat inflation.  Eging Photovoltaic jumped 3.2 percent to 20.57 yuan,
bringing its gain to 14 percent this week. Chaori Solar advanced
4.3 percent to 14.03 yuan after saying it will supply 150
megawatts of modules this year to China Solar Gmbh.  The head of China’s National Energy Administration Liu Tienan said yesterday that the country plans to double the
amount of solar capacity in operation by installing 3 gigawatts
this year.  The price for polysilicon, the raw material used to make
most solar panels, rose 3 percent last week, the most in eight
months, Bloomberg New Energy Finance data showed.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  