-- Roach Sees China Better Placed Than India to Withstand Slowdown
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-01-12T01:24:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/china-to-face-decline-better-than-india-roach.html
China  has scope to loosen fiscal and
monetary policy, making it better placed than  India  to weather a
global economic slowdown, said  Stephen Roach , non-executive
chairman of Morgan Stanley Asia.  China is bringing inflation under control and has a small
budget deficit, Roach said in an interview today with Bloomberg
Television. In contrast, India has a currency under pressure, an
“inflation problem” and a large fiscal shortfall, he said.  India’s “got its hands tied: It can’t cut  interest rates 
because of the inflation and currency issues, and it’s got no
leeway to increase its budget deficit,” Roach said. “India is
in a much tougher place right now than China in the midst of
this weaker global economy.”  Roach’s views differ from those yesterday of  Nouriel Roubini , the co-founder and chairman of Roubini Global Economics
LLC who called China’s growth model “challenged” and said
India is “positioned well.” The two developing economies
account for more than a third of the world’s population.  The  International Monetary Fund  is preparing a
“substantial” cut to global economic projections that in
September showed China and India leading the world’s recovery
this year.  Prime Minister Manmohan Singh’s efforts to bolster the
Indian economy have been hampered by corruption scandals,
inflation and the decision last month to stall the easing of
foreign investment rules in multibrand retail.  Indian Inflation  Indian central bank Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said last
week the Reserve Bank is  “very concerned” about the impact on
inflation from the rupee,  Asia ’s worst-performing currency in
the past year after sliding 13 percent.  Roubini said yesterday that China’s growth model “is now
challenged” because the U.S. can no longer be the consumer of
first and last resort. “Unless China changes its growth model
there’s even a risk of a hard landing in the next couple of
years,” he said  “In relative terms, India is actually positioned well,”
Roubini said in an interview with Bloomberg UTV in  New Delhi . At
the same time, the pace of “structural reforms” in India has
been “mediocre” and unless India pushes ahead with those
changes, economic growth in “absolute terms” will
“disappoint,” he said.  India’s economy expanded 6.9 percent in the third quarter
of 2011 and the  Reserve Bank  paused rates last month after a
record 13 increases since mid-March 2010, as the benchmark gauge
of inflation dropped to a one-year low of 9.11 percent in
November.  China’s Growth  Roach said today that China is “very serious about
engineering a shift” from an investment- and export-led economy
to consumer-driven growth.  “You’ll be pleasantly surprised at the progress they make
in building out a consumer-led growth model,” he said. “I’m of
the view that we can look for positive surprises from China not
negative surprises.”  The IMF is scheduled to release revised global projections
on Jan. 24. Olivier Blanchard, the Washington-based fund’s chief
economist, said in a Bloomberg Television interview last week
that with European growth “very close to zero at this point,”
there would be a “substantial” cut to the most recent 2012
global expansion estimate of 4 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brendan Murray at 
 brmurray@bloomberg.net  