-- Taiwan Voters to Judge Closer China Economic Ties as Ma Seeks Second Term
-- B y   M i c h a e l   F o r s y t h e
-- 2012-01-13T03:49:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/china-deals-up-for-judgment-as-taiwan-votes.html
Taiwan ’s 18 million voters will
decide the course of relations with China for the next four
years tomorrow as they choose between the incumbent president
and an opposition leader critical of his push for  closer ties 
with the mainland.  President Ma Ying-jeou, 61, who heads the Kuomintang Party,
says that a surge in two-way trade, investment and tourism
across the  Taiwan Strait  helped propel  growth  to 6.6 percent in
the first quarter of last year. His main opponent, the
 Democratic Progressive Party ’s Tsai Ing-wen, counters that the
links Ma engineered with the mainland risk eroding Taiwan’s
autonomy.  A Ma win may offer a mandate to forge ahead with agreements
expanding cross-strait trade and investment. A victory for Tsai,
who has blamed a growing wealth divide on jobs being lost to the
 mainland , could set back cross-strait relations in a year that
will also see the start of a leadership change in  China .  “Ma’s biggest legacy in the past three and a half years is
he’s signed 16 agreements with China,” said Chang Wu-ueh, a
professor of political science at Taipei’s Tamkang University.
“The reason why he still runs such a tight race with Tsai is
because most people don’t feel the immediate  benefits  of the
improved China-Taiwan relations, and not everyone regards the
cross-strait issue as the deciding matter for their vote.”  Closing Time  Voting stations are open from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m., with
tallies posted on the Central Election Commission website after
they close. Voters must be at least 20 years old.  Ma was widening his narrow lead over Tsai, 55, in public
opinion polls taken prior to a blackout period for voter surveys
that began Jan. 4. Taiwanese law bars publication or release of
polls 10 days prior to presidential elections.  “Right now both sides are showing -- on the incumbent
side, a little bit of self confidence, on the challenger side, a
little bit of nervousness,”  Douglas Paal , formerly head of the
American Institute in Taiwan, the de facto U.S. embassy, said on
Bloomberg TV today.  Airlines doubled the number of extra  flights  from China to
Taiwan this year to handle demand from passengers returning home
for the Lunar New Year and to vote in the elections, in which
absentee balloting isn’t allowed.  Airlines added 20 flights in the first eight days of the
traditional holiday travel period last year, according to data
provided by the Civil Aeronautics Administration. This year,
they added 101 flights in the first five days up to the Jan. 14
election.  Market Bets  Markets may be assuming a Ma victory. Option traders are
increasing bullish bets on an exchange-traded fund tracking
Taiwan stocks. The ratio of calls to buy the  iShares MSCI Taiwan
Index Fund  versus puts to sell rose to 3.39-to-1 on Jan. 9 and
touched 3.47 on Jan. 6, the highest level since March 2008, two
months before Ma was sworn in for his first term.  Investors may respond positively to a Ma victory “given
what is widely perceived to be a more market-friendly stance on
cross-strait policies and potentially fewer uncertainties in
terms of policy direction,” Shirla Sum, an economist in  Hong
Kong  at Goldman Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a Jan. 11 note.  Under Ma’s administration, a six-decade ban on direct air,
sea and postal links with the mainland came to an end. The two
sides signed a trade agreement in 2010 that reduced tariffs and
paved the way for Cathay Financial Holding Co. and Fubon
Financial Holding Co., Taiwan’s largest listed financial-
services companies, to expand business in China.  Two-Way Trade  Two-way  trade  reached $160 billion last year, a 10 percent
increase from 2010, according to Chinese customs statistics.  The  Taiwan Stock Exchange ’s  Taiex Index (TWSE)  has tracked the
performance of the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of equities under Ma,
whereas it lagged behind under predecessor Chen Shui-bian, who
advocated independence. Since Ma took office in 2008, the
Taiwanese gauge is down 23 percent, against the 25 percent drop
for the MSCI measure. Under Chen, the Taiex was up 1.9 percent
while the Asia Pacific index climbed 35 percent.  “I said my first four-year term would be to put Taiwan
back on track,” Ma told reporters yesterday in Taipei. “My
second term is to make Taiwan a leading global economy.”  China regards Taiwan, a nation of 23 million people ruled
separately since a civil war ended in 1949, as its own territory
and criticized a push by the DPP’s Chen to seek sovereignty
during his 2000-08 tenure. Chinese officials have said relations
would suffer if Tsai wins.  China ‘Basket’  In a campaign rally today, Tsai said that if she wins the
presidency, her first task will be ensuring stable cross-straits
ties with China.  “The new government will accept all existing agreements
and hope to build new cross-strait consensus and reach new
agreements with China that will benefit both sides,” she said.  As  China (CNGDPYOY) ’s economy slows, Taiwan’s growth also is
 moderating , with the island’s gross domestic product rising 3.4
percent in the quarter through September. Nomura Holdings Inc.
forecasts GDP will drop 0.3 percent in the current quarter from
a year ago.  Also seeking the presidency is James Soong, head of the
People First Party, a member of the Kuomintang-led coalition in
parliament. Soong, who also supports closer ties with China and
could take votes away from Ma, was trailing in public opinion
polls taken prior to the blackout period.  New Parliament  Taiwan’s voters also choose a new parliament tomorrow, the
first time the two elections have been held on the same day. The
ruling KMT kept control of Taiwan’s Legislative Yuan when the
opposition DPP held the presidency from 2000-2008. The division
of power resulted in delays in implementing government policies,
from financial-sector consolidation to defense purchases.  This year, a party split in control of the presidency and
the 113-seat legislature could jeopardize passage of a fiscal
stimulus package, Nomura analysts led by Alistair Newton wrote
in a Jan. 6 note.  The winner must have a plurality of votes, and there is no
run-off election. The new president takes office in May for a
four-year term, and, like in the U.S., can serve a maximum of
two four-year terms.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Michael Forsythe in Beijing at 
 mforsythe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  