-- China’s Inflation Cools for Fifth Month, May Presage More Easing: Economy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-12T07:39:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/china-s-inflation-cools-for-fifth-month-may-presage-more-policy-easing.html
China ’s  inflation  cooled to a 15-
month low and producer-price gains were the smallest in 2 years
in December, leaving the government more room to support growth
as a global slowdown hurts exports.  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing today. That
compares with the  median estimate  of 4 percent in a Bloomberg
News survey of 26 economists and 4.2 percent in November.  Today’s data may allow Premier Wen Jiabao to proceed with a
shift in policy focus to bolstering expansion as Europe’s debt
crisis crimps overseas demand and officials sustain a campaign
to cool property prices. Imports and exports increased the least
in two years last month, excluding seasonal distortions, and a
report next week may show the world’s second-largest economy
expanded at the slowest pace in 10 quarters.  “Inflation will no longer be a constraint on policies and
officials will look more to other economic data to decide if
there is a need to ease policies,” said  Ken Peng , a Beijing-
based economist with BNP Paribas SA, the only bank to correctly
forecast the inflation reading. “Still, policy makers may
remain wary of inflation for a while because the number still
exceeded the yearly target.”  Stocks in China erased gains made after the data were
released. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  rose as much as
0.8 percent before closing little changed. Asian stocks fell,
with weaker Japan trade data overshadowing speculation that
slower inflation in China may result in monetary-policy easing.
The MSCI  Asia  Pacific Index fell 0.2 percent at 4:27 p.m. in
 Tokyo .  Exceeding Target  China’s statistics bureau said that in 2011, consumer
prices rose 5.4 percent, exceeding the government’s target of 4
percent set at the beginning of the year. Policy makers haven’t
yet published an inflation goal for this year. Economists’
forecasts released last month ranged from 2 percent at Standard
Chartered Plc to 4.4 percent at Credit Suisse Group AG.  Elsewhere in Asia,  Indonesia  kept interest rates unchanged
for a second month, extending a pause in monetary easing as a
weakening rupiah and a government plan to contain fuel subsidies
threaten to spur inflation. In  India , industrial production
rebounded from the worst month since March 2009, a sign consumer
demand is withstanding record  interest-rate  increases.  Later today,  Europe ’s two biggest economies report December
inflation data. A gauge of consumer prices in  France  rose 0.3
percent from a month earlier, according to the median estimate
of 10 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. They gained 0.7
percent in  Germany  in the month, the median of 21 estimates
indicated final data will show.  ECB Decision  Italy  and the U.K. report industrial production for
November today. Output in Italy declined 0.2 percent, according
to a survey of 17 economists, and fell 0.1 percent in the U.K.,
a separate poll showed.  Also in the U.K., the  Bank of England  is expected to keep
its benchmark interest rate unchanged at 0.5 percent, according
to a survey of 53 economists, and maintain its asset purchase
target at 275 billion pounds, the median of 41 estimates showed.  The  European Central Bank  is also predicted to keep
borrowing costs unchanged at 1 percent this month, according to
a Bloomberg News survey of 53 economists.  Separately, Greece is due to report unemployment for October
today or tomorrow, with the data forecast to show the jobless
rate climbed to 18 percent from 17.5 percent a month earlier.  In the U.S., retail sales probably rose 0.3 percent in
December from a 0.2 percent gain the prior month, according to
the median of 75 estimates in a Bloomberg News  survey . Initial
jobless claims in the U.S. edged up to 375,000 in the week ended
Jan. 7, the median of 45 estimates showed.  Food Prices Climb  A Treasury Department release in  Washington  will show the
 U.S. budget deficit  widened in December to $83.7 billion from
$78.1 billion a year earlier, a survey of 27 economists showed.  Inflation in China may see a “one-off” rebound this month
amid increased  consumer spending  before the Chinese Lunar New
Year holiday and winter disruptions to food supplies, according
to Lu Ting, a Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America Corp.
Wholesale prices of 18 vegetables tracked by the  Ministry of
Commerce  continued to climb in the first week of January from
the previous seven days, after rising throughout December,
according to government data.  Gains in food prices accelerated to 9.1 percent in December
from a year earlier, as vegetable and seafood costs climbed,
today’s report showed. Non-food prices increased at the slowest
pace in a year.  Reserve-Ratio Cuts  China’s economic growth may have slowed to 8.7 percent from
a year earlier in the fourth quarter of 2011, according the
median  estimate  of 25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The
data is due for release on Jan. 17. UBS AG estimates the pace of
expansion may slow to 7.7 percent this quarter. That would
trigger “more visible” policy easing and lift domestic
investment from the second quarter, according to the bank’s Hong
Kong-based economist  Wang Tao .  The People’s Bank of China cut banks’  reserve requirement
ratio  last month, the first since 2008, to encourage lending.
BNP estimates four to five reductions this year with the first
probable after the Lunar New Year holiday that starts Jan. 23.
The bank sees inflation averaging 3.6 percent this year.  Easing global commodity prices have helped cool raw
material costs in China, the world’s largest consumer of  iron
ore  and copper. Producer prices rose 1.7 percent in December
from a year earlier, today’s report showed, in line with the
median estimate in a Bloomberg survey, after a 2.7 percent gain
the previous month.  Stabilizing Prices  While controlling inflation is not as urgent a task as it
was last year, stabilizing consumer prices is still high on the
government’s agenda and efforts to rein in excessive gains won’t
be relaxed, People’s Bank of China Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said
in interviews with Caixin magazine and the Xinhua News Agency
over the past two weeks. More than two thirds of households in a
central bank survey last month said prices are too high.  Factory workers from lingerie maker Top Form International
Ltd.’s Shenzhen plant to Pangang Group Chengdu Steel Vanadium &
Titanium Co. in western China have gone on strike for higher pay
in the past two months.  LG Display Co. (034220) , agreed to double year-
end bonuses last month in eastern China’s Nanjing plant after
more than 2,000 workers took part in a protest, the state-run
Xinhua News Agency reported Dec. 29.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  