-- China’s Auto-Sales Growth Trails U.S. for First Time in At Least 14 Years
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-12T07:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/china-s-auto-sales-growth-trails-u-s-for-first-time-in-at-least-14-years.html
China ’s auto sales slowed last year,
trailing growth in the U.S. for the first time in at least 14
years, after the government ended stimulus measures and as the
nation’s economic expansion showed signs of easing.  Total vehicle sales, which include cars, trucks and buses,
rose 2.5 percent to 18.5 million, according to data released by
the  China Association of Automobile Manufacturers  today,
compared with the 3 percent median estimate of five analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The country remained the world’s biggest
vehicle market for a third straight year, with demand projected
to grow about 8 percent this year, the industry group said.  Delivery growth slowed from the 32 percent rate in 2010,
after China withdrew a two-year package of tax breaks and
rebates that helped the country overtake the U.S. Higher
interest rates and restrictions on new vehicles in Beijing also
deterred purchases, adding to supply disruptions that sent  Honda (7267) 
Motor Co. to its first sales decline in the country.  “China’s auto sales growth won’t reach anywhere near the
past couple of years as it scales back to a more sustainable
pace,” said Jenny Gu, an analyst at industry researcher LMC
Automotive in  Shanghai . “The past few years were boosted by
government incentives.”  Passenger-car deliveries rose 5.2 percent to 14.5 million,
slowing from the 33 percent growth in 2010, according to data
from the automakers association.  Commercial vehicle sales , a
category that includes buses and trucks, fell 6.3 percent to
4.03 million units.  Congestion, Pollution  Traffic congestion and worsening pollution prompted
Beijing’s municipal government to impose a quota on new vehicles
last year and distribute license plates through a monthly
lottery.  More cities are expected to introduce measures limiting
vehicle purchases and driving, Shi Jianhua, deputy secretary
general of the industry group, said at a briefing in Beijing. A
slowdown in fixed-asset investment may undermine demand for
commercial vehicles, he said.  Local automakers saw the biggest drop in sales last year,
the association said in today’s statement. Among domestic
manufacturers, Chongqing Changan Automobile Co.,  BYD Co. (1211) , and
Chery Automobile Co. reported sales declines.  China vs U.S.  Sales growth in China outpaced the U.S. every year before
2011, according to data from the association stretching back to
1998. U.S. light-vehicle sales climbed 10 percent, or almost
1.19 million, to 12.8 million in 2011, according to researcher
Autodata Corp. U.S. deliveries may rise about 5.6 percent this
year to 13.5 million, the average estimate of 10 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  The rebound in U.S. auto demand is a reversal from 2009,
when industry sales plunged to the lowest in more than a quarter
century, pushing  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Auburn Hills , Michigan-
based Chrysler into bankruptcy along with dozens of their
suppliers.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) , Asia’s largest carmaker, said last week
that China sales rose last year at the slowest pace since at
least 2004, increasing 4 percent to 883,000 vehicles. Tokyo-
based Honda reported its first annual sales decline in China
this week, with deliveries falling 4.5 percent in 2011 to
617,764, as  Japan ’s strongest earthquake in March and flooding
in  Thailand  disrupted production.  Passenger Vehicles  China’s gross domestic product expanded 9.1 percent from a
year earlier in the third quarter, the least in two years. The
pace may have fallen to 8.5 percent in the fourth quarter,
according to Citigroup Inc.  Growth in passenger-vehicle demand in China will accelerate
this year to about 9.5 percent, rising to 15.87 million units,
with vehicle exports projected to rise 25 percent to 30 percent
to as much as 1.1 million units, the auto association said.  GM, the biggest foreign automaker in China, increased sales
in the nation 8.3 percent last year to a record 2.55 million
vehicles, helping the Detroit carmaker regain the global sales
crown 18 months after exiting bankruptcy.  Ford Motor Co., which is adding four new plants in China
with its partners, said sales grew 7 percent to 519,390
vehicles, its highest tally, boosted by deliveries of the
Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s Mondeo sedan and Focus
hatchback.  Production Overcapacity  Last month, China said it will end a seven-year policy to
encourage foreign investment in the automotive manufacturing
industry on Jan. 30 to allow for “healthy development.” The
announcement comes two weeks after the country said it would
impose anti-dumping duties on some vehicles imported from the
U.S. after failing to block a U.S. tariff on Chinese tires.  Overcapacity in China’s automaking industry emerged in 2011
and will probably worsen every year through 2015, Mizuho
Securities  Asia  Ltd. said in a Dec. 30 report. Auto production
capacity in the country will probably rise 15 percent in 2012
and 20 percent in 2013, outpacing the estimated 4 percent annual
increase in demand, according to the report.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net ;
Liza Lin in Shanghai at 
 llin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  