-- China Banks Postponing Losses Damages Confidence: S&P
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-12T06:34:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/china-banks-postponing-losses-damages-confidence-s-p.html
Signs that Chinese lenders will
postpone losses on trillions of yuan of loans made to local
governments may undermine investor confidence in the banking
sector,  Standard & Poor’s  said today.  The country’s regulator may permit banks to reschedule
 loans  to local government financing vehicles, which would be a
“backward step” and threaten a decade of increasing
transparency, according to an e-mailed report from the ratings
company today.  “Such a policy change, if it materializes, could undermine
the Chinese banking sector in the long run despite its possible
short-term relief,” Liao Qiang, a Beijing-based director of
financial institution ratings for S&P, said in a conference call
after the report was released.  Thousands of local governments borrowed money to fund
building projects central to economic stimulus steps started in
November 2008. Financing companies enable provinces, cities,
counties and townships to bypass rules barring direct bond
sales. Local governments had debt totaling 10.7 trillion yuan
($1.69 trillion) as of the end of 2010, according to a June
national audit.  “Refinancing risks for heavily leveraged financing
platforms are looming large,” Liao said.  Honoring Debts  Around 30 percent of loans to local government companies
may sour in the next three years should the governments not
extend any support, according to the report. The ratio of non-
performing loans in  China ’s banking system may rise to around 10
percent from the current 1 percent, S&P said.  “Creditors have now started to doubt the capacity and
willingness of local governments to honor their debts, given the
sheer size of the debt and unevenness of fiscal strength across
regions,” the report said.  The nation’s banking regulator is under pressure to ease
rules on local lending after tightening them in the past few
years, S&P’s Liao said.  Zhou Mubing, vice chairman of the China Banking Regulatory
Commission, indicated in October that the regulator may allow
banks to reschedule eligible loans to local government financing
vehicles, the report said.  A call to the banking regulator today seeking comment on
the report went unanswered.  As much as 3 trillion yuan of loans, or 5 percent of the
banking sector’s total lending at the end of last year, may be
eligible for extension, S&P said. That would reduce credit
losses by 80 billion to 100 billion yuan each year for the next
three years.  “Whether the government will continue to provide massive
capital injections to those platforms to bail them out, this is
a big issue and there’s a lot of uncertainty here,” Liao said.
“This has led to a lot of creditor concern.”  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Henry Sanderson in Beijing at 
 hsanderson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  