-- China Gets Cheaper Iran Oil as U.S. Pays Tab for Hormuz Patrols
-- B y   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n   a n d   G o p a l   R a t n a m
-- 2012-01-12T20:07:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/china-gets-cheaper-iran-oil-as-u-s-pays-tab-for-hormuz-patrols.html
China  stands to be the biggest
beneficiary of U.S. and European plans for sanctions on  Iran ’s
oil sales in an effort to pressure the regime to abandon its
nuclear program.  As European Union members negotiate an Iranian oil embargo
and the U.S. begins work on imposing sanctions to complicate
global payments for Iranian oil, Chinese refiners already may be
taking advantage of the mounting pressure. China is demanding
discounts and better terms on Iranian crude, oil analysts and
sanctions advocates said in interviews.  “The sanctions against Iran strengthen the Chinese hand at
the negotiating table,”  Michael Wittner , head of oil-market
research for Societe Generale SA in New York, said in a phone
interview. While there are no confirmed numbers, Chinese
refiners are likely to win discounts on Iranian crude contracts
as buyers from other nations halt or reduce their purchases of
Iranian oil to avoid being penalized under U.S. and European
sanctions, he said.  At the same time, the U.S. is bearing most of the cost of
air and sea patrols and surveillance in the  Strait of Hormuz ,
through which transit 17 million barrels a day of crude, or 20
percent of world supplies. China, the No. 2 importer of oil
after the U.S., enjoys protection for the shipping lanes without
paying a cent, retired Admiral Dennis Blair, a former U.S.
Director of National Intelligence, said in an interview.  U.S. Patrols  “Policing the region imposes a cost on us, and benefits
the Chinese,” Blair said in an interview. A few Iranian
officials recently have threatened to shut the passage if the
U.S. and  Europe  enforce tough oil sanctions.  The U.S. military is flying 24-hour drone missions every
three days in the Strait and the Persian Gulf and 12-hour
sorties by  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  manned P-3 surveillance
aircraft, according to Chief of Naval Operations Admiral
Jonathan Greenert and Navy Captain Jim Hoke.  The U.S. gets 18 percent of its crude and petroleum
products from the Persian Gulf, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration. China  imported  5.09 million barrels
of oil a day in the first eleven months last year, of which 51
percent came from the Middle East.  China’s imports of Iranian oil rose 29 percent to 25.3
million metric tons for the 11 months ended November 2011,
compared with the same period in 2010, according to Chinese
customs data. The value of the imports increased 80 percent to
$19.7 billion, according to the data.  Free Ride  As the world’s second-largest economy after the U.S., China
often gets an economic free-ride “even absent the current
tensions in the  Persian Gulf ,” said Erica Downs, a China and
energy specialist at the  Brookings Institution , a research group
in  Washington .  In  Afghanistan , China benefited economically from the U.S.-
led war to oust the Taliban, Downs said. In 2007, Metallurgical
Corp. of China won the right to develop Afghanistan’s largest
copper deposit, even as U.S. forces were fighting and dying in
the country, she said.  Oil is Iran’s main source of income, yielding the country
$73 billion in 2010 and supplying more than 50 percent of the
national budget, according to the U.S. Energy Department and the
 International Monetary Fund . The second-largest producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi
Arabia , Iran exported an average of 2.58 million barrels a day
in 2010, according to OPEC.  Oil Prices  Oil climbed to the highest level in a week on concern that
an oil-workers’ strike in  Nigeria  will curb supplies. Crude for
February delivery fell $1.81, or 1.8 percent, to $99.06 a barrel
at 2:30 p.m. on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange after touching
$102.98 earlier in the day.  The U.S. and Europe say they are targeting Iran’s oil
earnings to force the regime to abandon a suspected nuclear
weapons program. Iran says that its nuclear program is for
peaceful civilian energy and medical research.  While China has voted for four rounds of United Nations
sanctions on Iran, China’s leaders have criticized efforts to
expand U.S. and European sanctions unilaterally. Chinese Vice
Foreign Minister Zhai Jun said a congressional measure signed
into law by President  Barack Obama  on Dec. 31 to penalize Iran’s
central bank and block payments for its petroleum exports
elevates U.S. law above international norms.  Biggest Refiner  China is the biggest refiner of Iranian crude, buying 22
percent of Iran’s oil exports, according to the U.S. Energy
Information Administration.  “Iran is one of China’s biggest petroleum suppliers,”
Zhai said at a Jan. 11 briefing in Beijing. “China hopes that
petroleum imports won’t be affected, as petroleum is needed for
China’s development and for ensuring the needs of its people.”  The U.S. today announced sanctions against China’s Zhuhai
Zhenrong Company, the country’s largest supplier of refined
petroleum to Iran. The U.S. has determined that Zhenrong
brokered delivery of $500 million of gasoline to Iran between
July 2010 and July 2011, the U.S. State Department said in a
statement. Energy trading firms Kuo Oil Pte. Ltd., of  Singapore 
and FAL Oil Company Ltd of United Arab Emirates also were
sanctioned, according to the statement.  Sanctions Imposed  All three companies had transactions with Iran with
individual deals exceeding $1 million and total value in excess
of $5 million. The firms face penalties under the Comprehensive
Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 that
will prohibit them from receiving U.S. export licenses or loans
exceeding $10 million from U.S. banks, according to the
statement.  China is seeking to diversify its  Middle East  oil sources.
Chinese Premier Wen Jiabao embarks Jan. 14 on a six-day trip to
the Middle East, including Saudi Arabia, Qatar and the United
Arab Emirates.  During Wen’s visit,  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp ., known
as Sinopec, and Saudi Arabian Oil Co. will sign an agreement for
a proposed refinery at Yanbu on Saudi Arabia’s Red Sea coast,
the Saudi state-oil company said in an e-mailed statement Jan.
8. Sinopec has agreed to a 37.5 percent stake in Aramco’s
planned 400,000 barrel-a-day fuel-processing plant.  Undermining U.S.  Even if it diversifies sources of oil, China is unlikely to
sever commercial ties to Iran, said Willy Wo-Lap Lam, an adjunct
professor of history at the Chinese University in  Hong Kong .  “It has been a long-standing policy of Beijing’s to
undermine U.S. influence in the Middle East even as the Obama
administration is shifting its diplomatic and military pivot to
the Asia-Pacific,” Lam said in an e-mail. “There is no
possibility that Beijing will curtail its oil imports from Iran,
which is seen by Beijing as a major ally.”  Instead, China’s oil executives are expected to demand
lower prices for Iranian crude, said  Mark Dubowitz , director of
the Iran Energy Project at the Foundation for Defense of
Democracies, an advocacy group in Washington.  Dubowitz estimates that if China were the only remaining
buyer of Iranian crude, it might command as much as 40 percent
discounts. Among the other major refiners of Iranian oil,  India 
has increased orders from Saudi Arabia, and Japanese and South
Korean officials say they are gradually reducing their
dependence on Iran, Dubowitz said.  EU Ministers  The European Union, which is collectively the No. 2 buyer
of  Iranian crude , taking 18 percent of Iran’s exports, has
agreed in principle to an embargo of Iranian oil. The 27 EU
foreign ministers are expected to approve the embargo at a Jan.
23 meeting in Brussels.  Discussion of the EU embargo “is already setting off a
cascade of oil-market behavior,” as the Chinese try to exploit
Iran’s weakness by demanding price cuts, Dubowitz said.  The Chinese “are forcing the Iranians to offer these price
discounts to compensate for added political and legal risk,”
said Dubowitz, who has been advising Congress and the Obama
administration.  Sanctions work in part by leveraging the greed of buyers
willing to flout sanctions, he said. Even those buyers will hurt
Iran’s bottom line by cutting their oil revenue, Dubowitz said.  Dubowitz agrees with Lam that there’s little evidence that
“Beijing and Tehran are breaking up.” Rather, a shrinking
circle of refiners will be able to “ruthlessly drive for
discounts,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gopal Ratnam in Washington at 
 gratnam1@bloomberg.net .
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  