-- China’s Wen to Juggle Iran Oil Need With Saudi Ties on Persian Gulf Trip
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-13T05:27:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/china-s-wen-to-juggle-iran-oil-need-with-saudi-ties-on-gulf-trip.html
China’s Wen Jiabao must balance his
country’s need for Iranian crude with its budding energy
partnership with  Saudi Arabia  on his first visit to the Gulf
kingdom, a U.S.-based specialist in Middle East security said.  The Chinese premier’s trip starting tomorrow comes amid 
signs that tighter economic sanctions may stop Iran, OPEC’s 
second-largest producer after Saudi Arabia, from selling its 
oil. Wen will also visit Qatar and the  United Arab Emirates ,
fellow members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting 
Countries, during the Persian Gulf tour ending Jan. 19.  “China seems quite reluctant to get on the wrong side of
Iran given the tensions existing in the region and Iran’s
importance for its oil,” Paul Sullivan, a political scientist
specializing in Middle East security at  Georgetown University  in
 Washington , said in a Jan. 11 e-mail.  Wen will become the most senior Chinese leader to travel to
Saudi Arabia since President  Hu Jintao  in 2009. His visit will
begin as Saudi Arabian Oil Co. and  China Petroleum & Chemical
Corp. (600028)  sign an agreement for a proposed refinery on the Red Sea
coast. Sinopec’s planned 37.5 percent stake in the Yanbu plant
would make it China’s first investment in a Saudi oil facility.  The European Union and the U.S. are weighing more stringent
sanctions against Iran over its nuclear program. An EU embargo
on purchases of Iranian crude, to be decided on Jan. 23, will
probably be delayed for at least six months to let countries
such as Greece, Italy and  Spain  find alternative supplies,
according to an official with knowledge of the talks. The
countries accounted for 68.5 percent of EU oil imports from Iran
in 2010, according to European Commission data.  China’s Concern  While China has voted for four rounds of United Nations
sanctions on Iran, its leaders have criticized separate efforts
to expand U.S. and European curbs. Vice Foreign Minister Zhai
Jun told reporters on Jan. 11 in Beijing that China needs oil
for its development and hopes imports won’t be affected. China
is the biggest importer of Iranian crude, buying 22 percent of
the Persian Gulf nation’s oil in 2010, according to the U.S.
 Energy Information Administration .  Wen may ask for Saudi Arabia to tap some of its spare
production capacity to keep markets supplied in the event of an
embargo of Iranian crude, Sullivan said.  “ China  has to walk a very fine line in the Gulf and has to
work within very complex nuances and political and economic
landmines in the region,” he said.  The recent weeks of anxiety over Iran have already added
about $10 a barrel to the cost of European benchmark Brent
crude, Kamel al-Harami, an independent oil analyst, said on Jan.
6 by telephone from  London . Brent crude futures for February
delivery slid 98 cents yesterday to $111.26 a barrel on news of
the delay to an EU embargo. The contract was at $112.03 a barrel
today.  Saudi Supply  “Some countries are trying to get a pledge that Saudi
Arabia would replace Iranian crude,”  Olivier Jakob , managing
director of Zug, Switzerland-based consultant Petromatrix GmbH,
said in a Jan. 11 phone interview. “The Saudis have been saying
they don’t want to enter into the politics of the issue and are
keeping the line that they will supply what the market needs.”  Saudi Arabia’s cabinet said on Jan. 9 that its policy for
oil sales is managed “purely on commercial grounds,” according
to the official Saudi Press Agency.  For China and other energy importers, the reliability of
shipments from Saudi Arabia and other Gulf suppliers has itself
become a concern since  Iran  threatened last month to block the
 Strait of Hormuz  if prevented from selling its crude. The strait,
at the mouth of the Gulf, is a bottleneck for almost fifth of all
oil traded worldwide, or almost 17 million barrels a day, the
U.S. Energy Department said in a report on Dec. 30.  Japan Affected  Japan wants to take “concrete steps” to reduce petroleum
imports from Iran, Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said at a joint
press conference with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F.
Geithner  in  Tokyo  yesterday. Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu
Fujimura said the government hasn’t made a final decision on
cutting imports, and that Azumi’s pledge “is just one of
several opinions.”  The nation met with a positive reception when it asked
producers in the Gulf to increase oil supplies, Japanese Foreign
Minister Koichi Gemba told reporters during a Jan. 10 visit to
 Abu Dhabi .  Japan  bought 9 percent of its imported oil from Iran
in the first 11 months of last year, according to data from
Japan’s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. Saudi Arabia
supplies about a third of Japan’s imported crude, the data
show.  Wen, who plans to give a speech about China’s energy policy
at a conference in the U.A.E. capital Abu Dhabi, will be
“looking for further guarantees” of energy shipments from the
Gulf, said  Theodore Karasik , director of research at the Dubai-
based Institute for Near East and Gulf Military Analysis.  “Saudi Arabia will provide China energy supplies if
Iranian oil goes off the market,” he said in a Jan. 11 phone
interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  