-- Christie Signs Bill Allowing Private Groups to Run Failing Public Schools
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-01-12T19:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/christie-signs-bill-allowing-private-groups-to-run-failing-public-schools.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie 
signed a bill that gives private firms the authority to run
failing public schools in three inner-city districts.  The Urban Hope Act creates a 10-year pilot program that
will allow nonprofit organizations to build and operate
“renaissance” schools in Newark, Trenton and Camden. Groups
can apply to local boards and then the state Education
Department for as many as four schools in each city.  “This is more than just an inner-city problem and one that
needs to be addressed across the state,” Christie, 49, a first-
term Republican, said today in Camden, one of the poorest cities
in the U.S., and where he first proposed the new policy in June.
“The Urban Hope Act is just the first step I will be taking
over the next year.”  A year after Christie declared 2011 “The year of education
reform,” the Urban Hope Act is his first legislative victory
for a four-bill package that also includes a privately funded
school-voucher program, overhauling teacher tenure and expanding
charter schools. Christie has pledged to jump-start debate on
the remaining bills in 2012.  Christie’s initial proposal for the Urban Hope Act would
have allowed for-profit firms as well as nonprofits to be
eligible to run the new schools.  The governor and Democrats who sponsored the measure said
it will expand choices for students stuck in districts where
administrators have been unable to boost graduation rates and
test scores, even with increased state aid.  Charter Schools  Renaissance schools are similar to charter schools, which
have operated in  New Jersey  for more than a decade. Founders of
charters, which operate independently from districts, can be
teachers, parents, universities or non-profits.  Charters get as much as 90 percent of the district’s per-
pupil costs, and their students are admitted through a lottery
process. Attendance in renaissance schools would be based on
geography, not lottery. Charters also don’t need local boards of
education approval, according to  Kevin Roberts , a spokesman for
Christie.  The Urban Hope Act will let the state or district sell or
lease land to the groups to build the new schools. The
organizations would receive 95 percent of the local district’s
per-pupil government funding to run the schools.  Union Support  The  New Jersey Education Association , the state’s largest
teachers’ union that has feuded with Christie over many of his
education proposals,  endorsed  the measure last week.  “This bill ensured that employees in the proposed
renaissance schools will have all of the rights of other public
school employees,” Barbara Keshishian, president of the
195,500-member union, said in a  statement  on its website.  New Jersey spends more than $17,000 per pupil a year, the
most of any U.S. state, yet 100,000 students attend schools that
don’t meet educational standards, Christie said.  “We need new schools that will give our students the type
of education they need to graduate and be successful in college
or in their career,” Senator Donald Norcross, a Democrat from
Camden and a sponsor of the bill.  Norcross’s brother, George E. Norcross III, is a Democratic
party leader in southern New Jersey who was a vocal backer of
the measure and attended Christie’s Camden announcement in June.  In Camden, 57 percent of students graduated high school in
the 2009-10 year, compared to a statewide figure of about 95
percent, according to data from the education department. The
rate was 88 percent in  Newark , the state’s most-populous city,
and 78 percent in  Trenton , the capital.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton  at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  