-- Cold Sensitivity Gene Mutation May Explain Medical Syndrome, Study Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/cold-sensitivity-gene-mutation-may-explain-new-medical-syndrome.html
A single gene mutation causes some
immune system cells to shut down at body temperature and sends
others into overdrive in the cold, creating a mix of ailments
that researchers say constitutes a new medical syndrome.  The discovery helps explain a mysterious set of symptoms
that doctors didn’t realize were linked until a chance encounter
between an allergist at the U.S. National Institutes of Health
and a patient with a disfiguring rash running from head to toe.
The study was published yesterday in the  New England Journal of
Medicine .  The patient was also highly sensitive to cold, which he
overlooked since it ran in his family. A genetic link to the
potentially deadly condition known as  cold urticaria  had never
before been shown, said Joshua Milner, chief of the allergic
inflammation unit at the  National Institutes of Allergy and
 Infectious Diseases . Tests on his family members and others with
the condition uncovered a variety of ailments, including
autoimmune disease and antibody deficiency.  “Every single person had the cold sensitivity, but the
other symptoms were variable and overlooked,” Milner said in a
telephone interview. “One person was literally getting  gamma
globulin ,” infusions of a protein that is found in the blood
and includes antibodies to fight infection, he said.  Discussions with investigators around the nation yielded
two unrelated families with similar symptoms, including a
wayward immune response against their own tissue and a dearth of
the infection-fighting antibodies needed to stay healthy.  Further investigation on 27 family members allowed
scientists to find the cause: deletions in a single gene known
as PLCG2 that’s involved in switching immune system cells off
and on.  New Immune Clue  “Investigating rare diseases gives researchers more clues
about how the healthy immune system functions,” said  Anthony Fauci , director of the NIAID, in a statement. “More
importantly, identifying the genetic cause of these disorders
opens up possibilities for better disease management and
potentially a cure for people who may have spent their entire
lives debilitated by severe and unexplained symptoms.”  The investigation was conducted by researchers at the  U.S.
National Institutes of Health  in Bethesda,  Maryland ,  University
College London , Rady Children’s Hospital of  San Diego  and Yale
University School of Medicine in  New Haven ,  Connecticut .  Gene Deletion  One of the most intriguing findings was the significance of
the gene deletion, which caused an enzyme responsible for
activating immune system cells to be constantly left on. The
over-stimulated immune system B cells appeared to shut down in
response, failing to make all the antibodies needed to fight
infection, Milner said.  “When something is on all the time, the result is to shut
it down,” he said. “The enzyme is doing its job, but the cell
says forget it and becomes unresponsive. It’s stunned.”  Once the cells are cooled down below body temperature,
however, other immune defenses, known as mast cells, turned on
without stimulation, he said.  “I don’t believe there is anything similar in the world of
genetic disease when something is turned off abnormally at body
temperature and is turned on abnormally in the cold,” Milner
said. “It’s kind of wild to say the least. Somehow, this
remarkable little tiny deletion renders a profound sensitivity
to different temperatures.”  In these families, the mutation occurred a few generations
back, Milner said. The researchers believe it may develop
somewhat easily, and speculate that other people may have
related conditions.  Experimental Drugs  Several experimental drugs in development to treat cancer
inhibit the pathway used by the gene, Milner said. It may be
possible to block the signal so the mutated gene isn’t turned on
all the time, allowing the remaining gene to work properly, he
said. The researchers are pursuing the approach, he said.  “While these families appear to be relatively rare, the
findings are potentially applicable to a broad patient
population,” including patients with antibody problems,
autoimmunity, and a rash known as granuloma, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  