-- Commercial Paper in U.S. Gains Most in Year; Banks Show Decline
-- B y   J o h n   P a r r y
-- 2012-01-12T15:53:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/commercial-paper-in-u-s-gains-most-in-year-banks-show-decline.html
The market for corporate borrowing
via  commercial paper  expanded by the most in almost a year as
investors bought short-term IOUs from industrial companies even
as they avoided U.S. banks’ paper on concern  Europe ’s debt
crisis may be getting worse.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
outstanding rose by $33.9 billion to $963 billion outstanding in
the week ended yesterday, snapping five weeks of declines, the
 Federal Reserve  said on its website. That’s the biggest increase
since the period ended Jan. 26, 2011, according to Fed data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Indications that the  U.S. economy  is growing are spurring
investors to buy more commercial paper from nonfinancial
companies, which issue these IOUs, typically maturing in 270
days or less, to fund everyday activities such as paying rent
and salaries. Money-market funds, among the biggest buyers, are
reluctant to purchase financial commercial paper as European
leaders struggle to contain a fiscal crisis that threatens to
infect bank balance sheets worldwide.  “Much of the weakness remains in financial paper,” said
Raymond Stone, an economist at Stone & McCarthy Research
Associates in Princeton,  New Jersey . “The money funds, which
are the natural buyers of commercial paper, are hesitant to have
exposure to banks in general, but primarily European.”  The increase was led by non-financial paper, which rose
$15.9 billion to $185.5 billion outstanding in the biggest gain
since the period ended June 22, 2011. The  amount issued by U.S.-
based banks  slid for a sixth week, decreasing by $100 million to
$280.1 billion, according to the Fed.  Commercial paper sold by
non-U.S. financial institutions  advanced $6.8 billion to $148.6
billion after five weeks of declines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Parry in New York at 
 jparry5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  