-- Cordray Says Consumer Bureau Backs Data Secrecy Change
-- B y   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-01-13T00:03:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/cordray-says-consumer-bureau-backs-changing-attorney-client-rule.html
(Corrects to remove reference to state attorneys general in
third paragraph.)  The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau wouldn’t oppose a push by lenders to tighten protection
of information they share as part of the bank supervision
process, according to  Richard Cordray , the agency’s director.  Cordray, at his first news conference since being named
director last week, moved today to allay concerns raised by
Congress’s decision not to subject the bureau to a 2006 law
requiring regulators to respect attorney-client privilege.  Banks questioned whether exempting the bureau from the law,
which governs regulators such as the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, would
nullify their right to attorney-client privilege on information
they give the agency. Cordray said he would support legislation
to foreclose that possibility.  “If the banks want to get us listed in the statute, we
would welcome that,” Cordray told reporters in  Washington . “It
would put this entirely at rest.”  Banks’ concern that the bureau might pass supervisory
information to state attorneys general has been a running theme
since the agency was created under the Dodd-Frank Act. The state
officials have authority to enforce Dodd-Frank rules, and
information gleaned from examining banks’ books could include
internal evaluations of potential fraud or compliance with state
and federal law.  Some lenders supervised by the bureau, which will examine
banks with more than $10 billion in assets and some non-bank
firms, objected to Jan. 4 guidance issued by the agency that
said firms couldn’t withhold information protected by attorney-
client privilege. That led to worries on the part of banks that
passing information to the consumer bureau could be interpreted
as a waiver of attorney-client privilege.  Not Needed  “I personally don’t think it’s needed,” Cordray said of
the attorney-client protection. “It didn’t exist for the other
banking agencies until fairly recently.”  Cordray spoke to reporters after  Tom Donohue , the chairman
and chief executive office of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce,
criticized President Barack Obama’s decision to seat the former
Ohio attorney general using a recess appointment. Cordray,
citing his membership in the Grove City, Ohio, Chamber of
Commerce, said he wanted to hear businesses’ concerns.  “I understand, in many ways, their perspective,” said
Cordray. “I know that it’s not easy to run a business and be
successful.”  Cordray said he wouldn’t wade into the debate over the
legality of the Obama’s recess appointment, focusing instead on
the tasks he’s required to carry out under Dodd-Frank.  “I’m trying to be matter of fact,” he said. “We have a
job to do.”  The consumer bureau will play “a full participating role”
at the FDIC, said Cordray, who as director will also serve as a
member of that agency’s board.  The consumer bureau will hold a field hearing in
Birmingham,  Alabama , on Jan. 19, to discuss payday lending
products, according to an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Lawrence Roberts  at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  