-- Corn, Wheat Plunge Most in Three Months as U.S. Sees Bigger World Supplies
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n   a n d   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-01-12T19:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/corn-wheat-soybeans-plunge-most-in-three-months-on-bigger-world-supplies.html
Corn and wheat prices plunged the
most in three months, while soybeans slid, after an increase in
stockpile forecasts by the U.S. government eased concern that
shortages will inflate prices for food and biofuels.  Inventories of corn in the U.S., the world’s top grower and
exporter, may total 846 million bushels before this year’s
harvest, 12 percent more than analysts expected, a U.S.
Department of Agriculture report showed today. The 2011 crop
totaled 12.358 billion, above a December forecast, while global
output will be a record for a fifth straight year. World wheat
reserves will rise to the highest since 2000, the USDA said.  The prospect of ample supplies of grain for livestock feed
boosted shares of  Tyson Foods Inc. (TSN) , the largest U.S. meat
producer, and  Smithfield Foods Inc., (SFD)  the top pork processor.
World  food  prices fell in December for the fifth time in six
months and are down 11 percent from a record in February, the
United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization said today.  “High prices curbed demand, and now the market will
decline until we find improved consumption,”  Mark Schultz , the
chief analyst for Northstar Commodity Investment Co. in
 Minneapolis , said in a telephone interview.  Corn futures for March delivery tumbled the 40-cent limit,
or 6.1 percent, to settle at $6.115 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the
Chicago Board of Trade. That’s the biggest drop since Sept. 30.
Soybean futures for March delivery fell 1.7 percent to $11.825 a
bushel on the CBOT, after touching $11.50, the lowest since Dec.
21.  South America   Before today, corn futures were up 13 percent since mid-
December and soybeans had rallied 7.3 percent as dry weather in
South America threatened to reduce global grain supplies.  The USDA cut its estimate for  Argentina ’s corn production
to 26 metric million tons, 10 percent less than last month’s
forecast, and said soybean output may total 50.5 million tons,
2.9 percent below the December projection. Still, world corn
inventories forecast at 128.14 million tons were 3.9 percent
higher than analysts forecast, and estimated soybean stockpiles
also were larger than expected.  “World grain and soybeans supplies are more comfortable,
and provide a buffer against any additional losses from dry
weather in South America,”  Don Roose , the president of U.S.
Commodities Inc. in  West Des Moines ,  Iowa , said today in a
telephone interview. “Farmers have been one of the few
industries to prosper during the past several years of global
slowdown, and they have responded by growing bigger crops.”  Demand Slowing  U.S. corn demand in the three months through November was
3.84 billion bushels, down from 4.1 billion in the year-earlier
quarter, USDA data show. Soybean consumption fell to 905 million
bushels, 25 percent less than a year earlier. U.S. soybean
stockpiles before the 2012 harvest may reach 275 million
bushels, 20 percent more than forecast last month, as exports
slowed, the agency said.  Larger grain inventories may cut costs for oilseed
processors including Bunge Ltd., which rose as much as 1.6
percent in New York trading. Ethanol producers including  Archer
Daniels Midland Co. (ADM)  also may see reduced expenses. Last year, 40
percent of the U.S. corn crop was used to make fuel, topping the
amount used in  animal feed  for the first time.  Food Costs  An index of 55 food items fell to 211 points last month
from a revised 216.1 points in November, led by grains, sugar
and oilseeds, the Rome-based FAO said today on its website.  Food costs probably will fall in 2012, Jose Graziano da Silva, who took on the job of director general at the FAO this
month, said on Jan. 3. The  USDA  on Dec. 23 cut its estimate for
domestic food prices in 2011 to 3.25 percent to 3.75 percent and
said the rate of increase may slow next year.  Wheat futures for March delivery slid 5.6 percent to close
at $6.05 a bushel on the CBOT, the biggest decline since Sept.
30. Before today, prices were down 16 percent in the past year.  Global wheat supplies may total 210.02 million tons, the
most since 2000, as countries from  Australia  to  Russia  raised
output, the USDA said.  “There is plenty of supply right now, especially wheat on
a global basis,” said Alex Bos, a grain strategist at Macquarie
Group Ltd. in  New York .  Planting Gain  In the U.S., farmers planted 41.947 million acres of winter
wheat from September to November, more than analysts expected
and 3.2 percent higher than last year, the USDA said. Areas of
 Kansas ,  Oklahoma  and  Texas  have had triple the normal amount of
 rain  in the past 30 days, easing drought in the region, National
Weather Service data show.  Crop “conditions are probably getting better every day,”
Darrell Holaday, the president of Advanced Market Concepts in
Wamego, Kansas, said in a telephone interview. “I don’t think
there’s anything on the world wheat market to be bullish
about.”  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $66.7 billion in
2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion. Wheat ranks fourth
at $13 billion, behind hay, government data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in Chicago at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at   sstroth@bloomberg.net  