-- Corn Crops Will Lose 11 Million Tons in South America Because of Drought
-- B y   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-01-12T15:04:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/corn-crops-will-lose-11-million-tons-in-south-america-because-of-drought.html
Corn crops in  Brazil  and  Argentina ,
which produce 30 percent of the world’s exports, will lose 11
million metric tons of output after a drought caused
“irreversible” damage, forecaster Agroconsult said.  Growers in Argentina will harvest 20 million metric tons of
the grain in the current harvest, compared with 27 million tons
estimated last month, Andre Pessoa, head of Agroconsult, said in
Sao Paulo today. Brazil’s corn forecast was cut to 61 million
tons from 65 million tons, he said.  Corn has jumped 12 percent in a month in  Chicago  trading as
dryness and heat caused by the La Nina weather pattern harm
crops in  South America . Brazil is the third-largest producer of
corn after the U.S. and  China . Argentina is the second-largest
exporter of the grain after the U.S.  “The situation in the countryside is very bad,” Pessoa
said. “Losses in corn crops in Rio Grande do Sul and Santa
Catarina are irreversible,” he said, referring to Brazil’s two
southernmost states.  In  Mexico , the world’s fourth-largest corn producer,
growers are also expected to lose production because of a
drought. The country will likely produce between 22 million and
23 million tons of the grain this year, less than the 24.5
million tons previously forecast, Agriculture Minister Francisco
Mayorga said on Dec. 16.  La Nina  The recurring La Nina event may have caused more damage
this season than in 2009, when South American corn production
slumped after the worst drought in 70 years parched Argentine
crops, the Argentine Association of Regional Consortia for
Agricultural Experimentation, a farming group, said on Jan. 6.  Potential yields in Argentine corn crops that were planted
early will drop 20 percent, forecaster Commodity Weather Group
LLC said yesterday.  The  U.S. Department of Agriculture  cut its forecast for
corn production in Argentina today to 26 million tons from 29
million estimated in December. It kept the forecast for Brazil’s
corn crop at 61 million tons.  Soybean output in South America will also be harmed by the
dry spell, Pessoa said. Agroconsult cut its forecast for soybean
production in Argentina to 49 million tons from 53.5 million
tons, while reducing the outlook for Brazil to 73.5 million tons
from 75.2 million tons estimated last month.  Corn futures for March delivery rose 0.9 percent to $6.575
a bushel at 8:45 a.m. in Chicago. Soybean futures rose 0.3
percent to $12.06 a bushel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  