-- Mad King Duels for Power, Jamie’s Pizza, Icemen: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-01-12T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/crazy-king-fights-for-power-jamie-s-pizza-ice-sculptures-london-weekend.html
The fresh-faced gofer who fell for
 Marilyn Monroe  on the big screen now plays Richard II on stage.  Eddie Redmayne charmed moviegoers as the bamboozled upstart
in “My Week with Marilyn.” He’s now at the Donmar Warehouse in
Shakespeare’s somber tale of the 14th-century English king who
gets stabbed in the back.  Redmayne, who just turned 30, does a good job of portraying
the despairing sovereign, though he pairs his lines with lots of
hand gestures. The rest of the cast is excellent, as are the
split-level, Gothic sets.  Michael Grandage  directs. Information:
 http://www.donmarwarehouse.com  or +44-844-871-7624.  As somewhere casual to eat near the Donmar, Union Jacks is
worth a try. It’s the first outlet of a planned new chain by
Jamie Oliver serving flatbread, the U.K. equivalent of pizza.  Information:  http://www.unionjacksrestaurants.com/  or
+44-20-3597-7888.  Saturday  A one-bedroom mini-apartment is temporarily available for
hire on the roof of Queen Elizabeth Hall (part of the  Southbank
Centre ).  “A Room for London” -- inspired by Joseph Conrad’s Congo
riverboat -- is a timber structure with a bathroom, kitchenette,
library, and pretty views. It fits two people, at most, and
guests log their impressions at the end.  Designed by David Kohn Architects and by artist Fiona
Banner -- who parked warplanes inside Tate Britain in 2010 --
the room costs from 120 pounds ($185) per night and bookings for
the July-to-December period open Jan. 19. Or you can win a stay
by entering a competition of ideas for London’s future.  Information:  http://www.aroomforlondon.co.uk .  Saturday Night  Jocelyn Brown  will give Londoners a rare, live chance to
hear why she’s such a sought-after studio session diva.  She’s known for her 1980s dance hits, especially the chart-
topping “Someone Else’s Guy.” Yet Brown has also worked with
artists from Chic to  Lou Reed . In her two nights (Friday and
Saturday) at the Jazz Cafe, she’ll sing hits and show off her
range, from disco to soul.  Jazz Cafe, 5 Parkway, NW1 7PG. Information:
 http://www.jazzcafe.co.uk  or +44-844-847-2514.  Camden is filled with restaurants. Yet it can still be hard
to find a good place to eat. Market stands out for the quality
of its seasonal British food. It’s relaxed and informal --
fitting for a night out at the Jazz Cafe. Otherwise, the venue
has its own restaurant with a stage view. Information:
 http://www.marketrestaurant.co.uk/  or +44-20-7267-9700.  Sunday  Michelangelo wannabes gather in  Canary Wharf  this weekend.  Eight teams from across the globe will chisel away in
competitions at the  London  Ice-Sculpting Festival. You too can
pick up the discipline by signing up for a 20-minute master
class and learning how to sculpt a husky dog.  In Montgomery Square, Canada Square Park and Jubilee Place
Shopping Mall, next to Canary Wharf tube station. Information:
 http://www.londonicesculptingfestival.co.uk .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 