-- CFTC Rule Votes, EU Payments Industry, PCAOB: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-01-12T13:57:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/ctfc-rule-votes-eu-payments-industry-pcaob-budget-compliance.html
The U.S. Commodity Futures Trading
Commission completed Dodd-Frank Act regulations to protect swap
traders’ collateral that is used to reduce risk in trades.  CFTC commissioners voted 4-1 yesterday to complete the so-
called segregation rule, which gained urgency after as much as
$1.2 billion in client funds went missing as  MF Global Holdings
Ltd (MFGLQ) . collapsed last year. The CFTC, Securities and Exchange
Commission,  Justice Department  and bankruptcy trustee are
investigating if funds were misused before the New York-based
broker filed for bankruptcy protection Oct. 31.  The rule approved yesterday seeks to insulate clients’
collateral if their broker defaults, while also allowing the
customer funds to be pooled before a bankruptcy, according to a
CFTC summary.  In a separate 4-to-1 vote, U.S. regulators moved to soften
Dodd-Frank Act rules designed to protect less-sophisticated
customers in swap trades after banks, pension funds and
municipalities said the original plan could damage the market.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission , meeting in
Washington yesterday, voted 4-1 for revised regulations that
ease responsibilities initially proposed for Wall Street banks.
The changes loosen requirements that trades be suitable for
clients and limit banks’ obligation to act in the best interest
of public agencies, so long as they don’t recommend specific
swaps.  Lawmakers in the Dodd-Frank Act called for regulators to
crack down on abuses in the sales of derivatives to states,
cities and school districts after municipalities lost billions
of dollars on interest-rate swaps during the 2008 credit crisis.
Jefferson County,  Alabama , became the biggest municipal
bankruptcy in U.S. history as the result of such deals.  CFTC commissioners also voted 3-2 to propose a version of
the Volcker rule curbs on proprietary trading required by Dodd-
Frank, becoming the last of five regulators to seek comment on
the measure. Yesterday’s vote opens the measure to 60 days of
public comment. The rule, named for former Federal Reserve
Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the regulatory overhaul
to rein in risky trading at banks that benefit from federal
deposit insurance and Fed borrowing privileges.  The business-conduct rules for municipal investors have
been the subject of lobbying since they were introduced in
December 2010.  For more, see Interviews section, below.  EBA to Review 9% Capital Rule Based on Steps to Fight Crisis  The European Banking Authority will review banks’ need to
hold a 9 percent capital buffer as governments take steps to
address the sovereign-debt crisis, Andrea Enria, the EBA’s
chairman, said in a speech.  The EBA told banks last month to raise 114.7 billion euros
($145.8 billion) in fresh capital by the end of June as part of
measures introduced to respond to the euro area’s fiscal woes.
Lenders should look to bolster reserves by cutting bonuses,
retaining earnings or issuing shares, it said.  German banks need to raise an additional 13.1 billion
euros, Italian banks 15.4 billion euros, and Spanish lenders
26.2 billion euros in core tier 1 capital, the  European Banking
Authority  in  London  said. The capital shortfalls include 15.3
billion euros for Spain’s  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and 7.97 billion
euros for Italy’s UniCredit SpA.  Concerns have arisen at the EBA and the  European Central
Bank  that lenders may seek to scale down their loans to meet the
capital rules,  Richard Reid , research director for the
 International Centre for Financial Regulation , said in an e-
mail.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Weighs Rules to Spur Competition in Payments Industry  European Union regulators may draft new rules for the
payments industry by next year to tackle possible obstacles to
competition.  The  European Commission  is seeking views on potential
problems in the market for payments made via cards, the Internet
and mobile phones, it said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  The EU is seeking to boost payments by mobile phones and
the Internet as other regions take the lead in services,
attracting investments from companies including  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and  Visa Inc. (V)  The Brussels-based commission is
already investigating whether a group of banks shut out a rival
payment provider from talks to create standards for online
payments. This follows earlier probes into Visa Europe and
 MasterCard Inc. (MA)  into the fees they charge on card payments made
outside a user’s home country.  Regulators said they will decide by the middle of this year
whether new rules are necessary and, if so, may follow up by
publishing draft rules in late 2012 or early 2013.  The commission is considering allowing retailers across the
EU to impose surcharges on consumers who use payment cards with
relatively high fees, Michel Barnier, the EU’s financial
services chief, told reporters. Such surcharging is currently
banned in some countries.  For more, click here.  U.K. to Talk RBS Liabilities With Scots, Cameron Spokesman Says  The U.K. government will discuss how liabilities for  Royal
Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s bad debts should be divided with
Scotland if Scots vote for independence in a referendum, Prime
Minister David Cameron’s spokesman Steve Field said.  Field made the remarks to reporters in London today. He was
responding to comments by Scottish First Minister Alex Salmond
on Channel 4 television last night that the responsibility for
state-owned RBS’s near-collapse lies with the U.K. Treasury and
the Financial Services Authority, so the U.K. government should
remain liable.  Compliance Action  SEC Approves 11 Percent Spending Boost for U.S. Audit Watchdog  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission approved a
$227.7 million budget for the auditing industry’s regulator,
boosting its spending by 11 percent as it takes on new duties
overseeing broker-dealer audits.  SEC commissioners voted 5-0 for the  Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board ’s 2012 spending plan yesterday at a
meeting in  Washington . The board, a nonprofit corporation
established by the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act  of 2002 to regulate and
inspect auditors of U.S.-listed firms, is funded by an
accounting fee on companies and registered broker-dealers.  Much of this year’s increase is attributed to a new
inspection program for auditors of broker-dealers established
under the Dodd-Frank financial-regulation overhaul. Brokers are
being assessed about $18 million for 2012.  Banks Said to Face  New York  Inquiry Over Home Insurance Rates  Banks and insurers are being investigated by New York’s
insurance regulator over the prices charged to mortgage
borrowers for home insurance, a person familiar with the matter
said.  The  Department of Financial Services , which regulates banks
and insurers in New York State, is looking into whether
homeowners were burdened with overpriced “force-placed”
insurance, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the person didn’t have authority to speak publicly about
the matter. The department is examining pricing practices,
relationships between the companies involved and whether there
were kickbacks, the person said.  Ron Klug, a department spokesman, declined to comment on
the investigation.  The department has issued subpoenas or demands for
information to 31 companies.  The investigation was reported earlier by the Wall Street
Journal.  American Apparel Says SEC Ends Inquiry Without Enforcement  American Apparel Inc. (APP) , the young-adult clothing retailer,
said an investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission into its accounting practices ended without
enforcement.  The investigation was completed and the SEC doesn’t
recommend any action, the Los Angeles-based company said
yesterday in a regulatory  filing .  The SEC requested documents from the chain in 2010 after
Deloitte & Touche LLP quit as its accounting firm and was
replaced by Marcum LLP. Before ending the relationship, Deloitte
notified the retailer that its 2009 financial statements may not
be reliable.  The retailer, led by Chief Executive Officer Dov Charney,
has improved results in the past few months after posting losses
for most of the past two years as sales fell. Revenue grew 15
percent to $56.3 million in December, following a 4.8 percent
gain last quarter.  Bilateral Talks for U.S. Audit Inspections in  China  ‘Imminent’  Chinese and U.S. regulators will meet soon to discuss
lifting barriers for U.S. inspectors to review auditors of U.S.-
listed companies in China, said James R. Doty, head of the
 Public Company Accounting Oversight Board .  Doty’s nonprofit corporation is required by law to inspect
all auditors of public companies and has been blocked from
inspections in China. He said the meetings in the U.S. were
“imminent,” and declined to reveal the time and place.  A delegation from the SEC and the audit board traveled to
China last year to discuss joint inspections of auditors in both
countries. The Chinese then canceled a plan to hold U.S.
meetings. Doty and Securities and Exchange Commission Chairman
Mary Schapiro proposed the resumption of talks in letters to Guo
Shuqing, the new chief of the  China Securities Regulatory
Commission , Doty said in November.  Separately, Chinese officials met with U.S. regulators in
Washington to discuss enforcement coordination between the two
countries amid efforts to resolve a standoff on oversight of
auditors.  A delegation from China came to the Securities and Exchange
Commission’s Washington headquarters yesterday “as part of our
ongoing dialogue to address issues of mutual interest,” said
 John Nester , an SEC spokesman, who declined to comment further
on the talks.  Courts  Ex-Sullivan & Cromwell Lawyer Gets 28 Months for Tax Crime  John J. O’Brien, a former partner with the New York law
firm  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP  who specialized in corporate
mergers and acquisitions, was sentenced to 28 months in prison
for failing to pay his taxes.  O’Brien, who earned about $10.8 million from 2001 to 2008,
didn’t file federal tax returns for those years, according to
the government. He used his unreported income to buy a rare-book
business, which failed, according to prosecutors.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman yesterday in a hearing
in Manhattan federal court rejected O’Brien’s request to avoid
prison. As part of a plea agreement, O’Brien must pay $2.9
million in unpaid taxes, plus interest.  O’Brien, who is admitted to practice law in New York, is
the subject of a legal disciplinary proceeding, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Stanley Okula told Pitman. Because he pleaded guilty to
four misdemeanor charges, he won’t be automatically disbarred.  The case is U.S. v. O’Brien, 11-cr-0652, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.K. Regulator Charges Man With 8 Counts of  Insider Trading   Britain’s finance regulator charged Richard Anthony Joseph
with insider trading and  money laundering  following his May,
2010, arrest for the crimes.  The Financial Services Authority said Joseph, 42, was
released on conditional bail after a hearing in London today. He
is scheduled to appear at a higher criminal court in March to
face the eight counts of insider trading and two counts of money
laundering, the regulator said in a  statement .  Joseph, who is not approved by the FSA to hold a regulated
position in Britain’s finance industry, faces as long as seven
years in jail for insider trading, plus a fine if he’s found
guilty.  The FSA prosecutes market abuse in the U.K.  Karen Roberts, a spokeswoman for Joseph’s law firm,  Irwin
Mitchell , didn’t immediately respond to a phone call or e-mail
seeking comment. FSA spokesman Christopher Hamilton declined to
comment further.  Interviews/Speeches  Flaherty Wants Canada-Provincial Talks on Securities Regulator  Canadian Finance  Minister Jim Flaherty said he is reviewing
a Supreme Court opinion that found his plans to set up a single
regulator would be unconstitutional, and said he will talk to
his provincial counterparts about the ruling.  Flaherty, who spoke to reporters in Calgary, also said the
government should speed approvals of major energy projects.  CFTC’s Gensler Says Swap Rules Aim to Protect Customers  Commodity Futures Trading Commission Chairman Gary Gensler
spoke about proposed rules on swaps and proprietary trading.  Gensler spoke at a CFTC meeting in Washington, where the
commission voted 4-1 for revised swap-trade regulations that
ease responsibilities initially proposed for Wall Street banks
under the Dodd-Frank Act.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 