-- CVS Caremark to Pay $5 Million to Settle FTC Probe of Medicare Drug Prices
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n
-- 2012-01-12T17:56:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/cvs-caremark-to-pay-5-million-to-settle-ftc-antitrust-consumer-probe.html
CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) , the largest U.S.
provider of prescription drugs, will pay $5 million to settle
claims it misrepresented certain Medicare drug prices, ending a
two-year antitrust and consumer protection probe by the U.S.
Federal Trade Commission.  The FTC said it decided to close its investigation “after
a thorough and comprehensive review of the other consumer
protection and competition issues in this matter,” and won’t
take any further action “at this time,” according to a  letter 
addressed to CVS Caremark’s lawyer.  The FTC began investigating the business practices of the
company in 2009 after CVS bought Caremark for $27.2 billion, the
largest acquisition ever by a drugstore. The merger sparked
complaints from consumer groups, independent pharmacists and
lawmakers, prompting the FTC to take a second look at the
combination of the pharmacy chain and pharmacy-benefits manager.
A 24-state  task force  also conducted a review.  The settlement, which requires CVS to reimburse consumers
who overpaid for certain prescription drugs, also bars CVS
Caremark from making deceptive claims with regard to Medicare
Part D drug prices, the FTC said today in an e-mailed  statement .  ‘No Allegations’  “At the conclusion of this comprehensive investigation,
the FTC made no allegations of antitrust law violations or anti-
competitive behavior associated with any of our business
practices, products or service offerings,” Douglas A. Sgarro,
executive vice president and chief legal officer of CVS
Caremark, said in a statement posted to PRN Newswire. CVS
Caremark “cooperated fully” with the FTC’s investigation, he
said.  From 2007 to at least November, 2008, CVS Caremark’s
RxAmerica subsidiary posted prices for Medicare Part D
 prescription drugs  available at CVS and Walgreens pharmacies
that were lower than the actual prices in stores, the FTC said
in the statement. The deceptive prices caused many consumers to
chose RxAmerica plans and pay “significantly more than they
expected for their drugs,” the FTC said.  In some cases the actual prices of the drugs were more than
10 times more than the posted prices, the FTC said.  “This settlement puts money back in the pockets of older
Americans who struggle to pay for their medications,” FTC
Chairman Jon Leibowitzsaid in the statement. “With the cost of
health care on the rise, the FTC is especially focused on
protecting consumers from any deceptive claims that would cause
them to pay more than they should.”  CVS, based in Woonsocket,  Rhode Island , rose 0.4 percent to
$42.20 at 12:04 p.m. in New York trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 