-- Cyber Crime Threat Is Top Worry of Manhattan U.S. Attorney Preet Bharara
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-01-12T21:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/cyber-crime-threat-is-top-worry-of-manhattan-u-s-attorney-preet-bharara.html
Preet Bharara, the top federal
prosecutor in  Manhattan  whose office has sent terrorists and
inside traders to prison, told an audience that the threat of
Internet-related attacks is his biggest worry.  “Of all the issues I face as United States Attorney -- and
there are many, many things that I have to deal with that are
scary -- cyber threat in all of its breadth, variety and
complexity is what worries me the most, the absolute most,”
Bharara said today on the fourth and last day of a cyber
security conference sponsored by the FBI and Fordham University.  After becoming U.S. Attorney for Manhattan in 2009,
Bharara, previously Senator  Charles Schumer ’s chief counsel on
the Senate Judiciary Committee, said he established a unit
within his office to target complex frauds, including cyber
crime.  Bharara pointed to his office’s successful prosecutions of
former Societe Generale SA trader Samarth Agrawal and former
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. programmer Sergey Aleynikov for
stealing computer code.  Prosecutors worked with the  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration to bring
charges against six Estonians and a Russian accused of running
an international scam that netted at least $14 million in
fraudulent advertising fees, he said.  Bharara’s successful prosecutions include Faisal Shahzad,
who pleaded guilty to driving a bomb-laden car into  New York ’s
Times Square in 2010 and was sentenced to life in prison.  Last year, Bharara’s office won conviction of Galleon Group
LLC co-founder Raj Rajaratnam in the largest insider-trading
prosecution in U.S. history. Prosecutors are set for trial in
April against former Goldman Sachs Director  Rajat Gupta , who is
charged with passing inside tips to Rajaratnam.  The audience at today’s speech included  law enforcement  and
computer security professionals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  