-- Czechs Tout Austerity to Push Eurobond Premium Below East Europe Neighbors
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-01-13T15:58:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/czechs-tout-austerity-to-push-eurobond-premium-below-east-europe-neighbors.html
The  Czech Republic  should sell
Eurobonds this year at better terms than other eastern European
Union states because of government plans to trim the  budget
deficit , Deputy Finance Minister Jan Gregor said.  The  Finance Ministry  will be ready to sell between 1
billion euros ($1.3 billion) and 2 billion euros of debt from
the start of February after the ministry updates its
macroeconomic forecasts, Gregor said yesterday in an interview
in  Prague . The ministry may sell a bond on foreign markets
denominated in other currencies if terms for a Eurobond issue
aren’t favorable, he said.  “The Czech Republic in the past two years detached itself
from the region and it’s perceived as being closer to the
quality countries in the euro area,” Gregor said. “I hope that
the fundamentals behind this won’t change.”  Prime Minister Petr Necas’s pledge to reduce the shortfall
to less than the EU limit of 3 percent of economic output by
2013 has helped shield Czech bonds from the euro area’s
sovereign-debt crisis, which has prompted investors to sell the
region’s assets. Czech funding costs are the lowest in emerging
 Europe  and the koruna outperformed its peers in Poland and
 Hungary  last year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The premium investors demand for holding the Czech 10-year
government bond over a similar German security was 163 basis
points, or 1.63 percent, as of 4:35 p.m. in Prague, compared
with 404 points for Poland, the region’s largest economy, and
770 points for Hungary, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
spread for Slovakia, a euro-area member, was 286 basis points.  ‘Great Effort’  The cost of insuring against a Czech default is the second
lowest in emerging Europe after euro-region member  Estonia  at
172 basis points, compared with 278 points for  Poland , CMA’s
data on credit-default swaps show. The Czech yield has fallen
more than Poland’s in the past two months, increasing the extra
yield investors demand to hold Polish securities to 233 basis
points from a 17-month low of 168 basis points in November.  “There is a great effort to meet the fiscal targets, even
in worsening economic conditions, so that the Czech Republic’s
credibility doesn’t decrease,” Gregor said. “The intention to
amend the budget so that the cash deficit is around the targeted
105 billion koruna ($5.3 billion), strengthens the Czech
fundamentals.”  Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek said the government will
stick to the fiscal targets and amend the budget plans for this
year if economic growth is less than the 2.5 percent expansion
assumed in the budget. The economy may contract as much as 2
percent this year, Kalousek said on Jan. 3, while  Hospodarske
Noviny  quoted him today as saying in an interview that the
chances are rising that gross domestic product won’t decline.  Financing Cushion  The Czech Republic refrained from selling foreign bonds in
2011 as the escalating debt crisis in the euro area drove up the
cost of default insurance across the continent and threatened to
slow economic growth. A bigger-than-planned sale of koruna-
denominated bonds in the fourth quarter provided a financing
cushion for the government.  The Finance Ministry’s debt-management strategy for this
year includes the possibility of selling bonds in currencies
other than the euro, said Gregor.  “The euro remains the primary currency for foreign
borrowing, but we will be analyzing other alternatives as
well,” he said. “We didn’t want to open the market this year,
and this has been done now by our colleagues in neighboring
countries.”  Poland sold 750 million euros more of its euro-denominated
bond due March 2017 this week at a yield 237 basis points above
the benchmark mid-swap rate, an increase from a 100 basis-point
premium at the first sale in March 2010.  Slovakia sold 1 billion euros of bonds this week, with the
five-year 4.625 percent security priced to yield 305 basis
points more than the benchmark mid-swap rate.  Rating Upgrade  Standard & Poor’s  on Aug. 24 raised the Czech Republic’s
long-term foreign-currency debt two steps to AA-, the fourth-
highest grade and on a par with  Japan . The upgrade reflected a
change in rating criteria that highlighted the Czech
government’s low indebtedness and the “prudently managed and
balanced economy,” S&P said.  The Czech Republic last sold euro-denominated bonds in
September 2010, raising 2 billion euros due in April 2021 and
priced to yield 105 basis points more than the benchmark mid-
swap rate.  The government hired Barclays Bank Plc, Erste Group Bank
AG’s Czech unit Ceska Sporitelna AS, Societe Generale SA and
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in July to manage the planned Eurobond sale.  “We will closely monitor developments on the markets, and
as soon as we see a window of opportunity, we want to enter the
markets,” Gregor said. “Once the documentation is ready and
includes the updated forecasts, it may be a question of days.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  