-- Dead Phones Sent Wall Street Message (Part 2): Bratton and Tumin
-- B y   W i l l i a m   J .   B r a t t o n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T u m i n
-- 2012-01-12T00:00:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/dead-phones-sent-wall-street-a-message-commentary-by-bratton-and-tumin.html
On Sept. 11, 2001, when the World
Trade Center was destroyed in a terrorist attack, the  New York 
Stock Exchange closed. The enormous trading platform stayed dark
for four straight trading days, longer than at any time since
the Great Depression.  The attack exposed a hidden risk -- not from terrorists,
but from beneath the exchange itself: telecommunications.
Service had been lost, and fixing it would take collaboration.  The day after the attacks, most equities traders were ready
for the financial markets to get back up and running. By Sept.
13, the  Federal Reserve , too, was eager to get trading
restarted, to pump liquidity into the markets and keep the
global economy humming.  In New York and  London , employees of the Depository Trust &
Clearing Corporation, which processed more than 12 million
trades a day for all the major exchanges, were hard at work
clearing and settling the backlog, and by the 13th they, too,
were good to go.  There was only one problem: Ninety percent of the lines
running from traders to the major exchange floors ran over the
Verizon network. And most of them were still down. The giant
concrete slabs that had tumbled from the Twin Towers had slammed
into the Verizon Central Office exchange at 140 West Street,
crushing cables running into and out of Wall Street. Falling
steel girders had sliced five stories deep into Verizon’s
basement vaults, shattering water mains and flooding the central
office basement.  Lost Connections  Ten cellular towers, 200,000 personal phone lines, 100,000
business lines and 4.5 million data circuits were destroyed. And
in the ruins, no one could even find the manholes, let alone
start repairs.  Traders from Goldman Sachs,  Lehman Brothers , Merrill Lynch,
Morgan Stanley,  Salomon Smith Barney  and the like couldn’t
connect to the NYSE to buy and sell securities. Wall Street was
disconnected, and the global economy was on hold.  Long before 9/11, the Securities Industry Automation
Corporation, the NYSE’s engineering arm, had called for
improving the exchange’s telecommunications by constructing a
secure fiber-optic network. This was a costly proposal, however,
and it ran straight into the headwinds of status-quo bias. NYSE
members considered it a kind of expensive insurance that they
neither needed nor wanted to buy. Against what risk? they asked.  By Monday, Sept. 17, Verizon had restored enough service
that trading could resume. But now, for the first time,  Wall
Street  grasped the extent of its reliance on telecom providers.
Part of the problem lay with the trading firms themselves. Over
the years, they had continually upgraded to the latest
communications services -- all of which hooked onto carriers
like Verizon and AT&T -- and every upgrade required
customization where it touched the NYSE data center. So each
company was separately wired to the exchange, and that made
getting back to business after 9/11 harder.  Then there were the problems with Verizon. The company’s
concentration of switches and services at the 140 West Street
central office and other downtown Manhattan locations created
enormous unseen risk for the trading platforms. And Verizon had
had the securities industry’s circuits running underground
through plastic PVC piping, which was not strong enough to
withstand the destruction of 9/11.  When Verizon balked at upgrading the NYSE’s telecom network
sufficiently, the exchange resolved to create its own. After
Labor Day 2002, the Securities Industry Automation Corporation
announced it would provide a new telecom network for NYSE
members called the Secure Financial Transaction Infrastructure -
- a fiber-optic cable ringing  Manhattan  that NYSE members would
hook into directly, eliminating their dependence on Verizon.  A Safer Network  The SFTI would run alongside Consolidated Edison’s high-
voltage lines, which are wrapped in long concrete boxes. ConEd
promised to place Wall Street’s fiber-optic cable at the lowest
rung in the box -- so that if a missile or a girder or even just
a backhoe broke through several layers of concrete, it would cut
through ConEd’s high-voltage lines before it touched the stock
exchange line.  There were huge upfront costs to making this change. Only
by pooling resources could the industry construct the SFTI. But
thanks to 9/11, Wall Street now understood the need for it.  Any company that wanted to trade on the NYSE was required
to be on the new network. With everyone in the industry sharing,
costs would be kept to a minimum. The first exchange members
came on in 2003. And 85 percent of the securities industry was
part of the network by 2004.  The greatest potential benefit from this collaboration is
something no one ever hopes to realize: a global trading
platform that rights itself quickly after a devastating attack
by nature or man.  (William J. Bratton, who led the  Los Angeles , New York and
Boston police departments, is the chairman of Kroll, a risk
consulting company. Zachary Tumin is a senior researcher at
Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center for Science and
International Affairs. This is the second in a three-part series
of excerpts from their book, “ Collaborate or Perish !: Reaching
Across Boundaries in a Networked World,” to be published Jan. 17
by  Crown Business . The opinions expressed are their own. Read
 Part 1  and  Part 3 .)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
William J. Bratton and Zachary Tumin at
 info@collaborateorperish.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  