-- Delhaize Slumps on Store Closures as Sales Miss Estimates
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-01-12T16:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/delhaize-slumps-on-store-closures-as-sales-miss-estimates-1-.html
Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the owner of the
U.S. Food Lion supermarkets, fell the most in 16 months in
Brussels trading after reporting sales that  missed  analysts’
estimates and saying it will close 146 unprofitable stores.  Delhaize lost 5.07 euros, or 11 percent, to 41.78 euros at
the 5:40 p.m. close of  trading  on Euronext Brussels, the biggest
one-day retreat since August 2010. The food retailer has lost 26
percent of its value in the past year.  Costs related to the store closures will cut pretax profit
by 205 million euros ($263 million) in the first quarter
following a 120 million-euro writedown related to U.S. stores in
the prior three-month period, Brussels-based Delhaize said today
in a statement. Fourth-quarter sales of 5.64 billion euros
missed the 5.68 billion-euro average of 11 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  “Poor sales trends and unpleasant restructuring charges,”
John David Roeg, an analyst at ING Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote
in a note to investors. He has a “hold” recommendation on the
shares.  Delhaize’s Food Lion stores in the southeastern U.S. have
lost ground to rivals including  Ruddick Corp. (RDK) ’s Harris Teeter,
Publix Super Markets Inc. and  Kroger Co. (KR)  in recent years. Sales
at U.S. stores open at least a year fell 0.4 percent in the past
quarter, resuming a decline that previously lasted nine quarters
through March. Delhaize has cut prices, repositioned Food Lion
supermarkets and introduced  new formats  to retain customers.  5,000 Positions  The grocer said today that it gave up on 113 Food Lion
stores, will retire its 49-store Bloom brand and remodel or
close all existing Bottom Dollar Food stores outside the
Philadelphia area. Delhaize will also abandon 20 of the 485
stores in five eastern European countries it acquired through
its July 27 purchase of Belgrade, Serbia-based Delta Maxi DOO
for 933 million euros including debt. The store closures will
erase about 5,000 positions globally.  Sales at Delhaize’s Belgian stores open at least a year
dropped 0.6 last year and contracted in the fourth quarter by
the most in six years. The food retailer got about 23 percent of
revenue from its Belgian home market last year, with the U.S.
accounting for 65 percent.  ‘Dead Money’  Delhaize also said year-end revenue in  Greece  was lower
than expected due to the “very difficult economic
environment,” without giving sales figures for its Alfa Beta
supermarkets in the country. Fourth-quarter revenue at Delta
Maxi was about 287 million euros and Delhaize maintained its
Dec. 1 forecast for sales of 1.3 billion euros this year.  “The stock will probably be  dead money  for some time,”
said Marc Leemans, an analyst at Banque Degroof SA in Brussels.
He cut his recommendation for the shares to “hold” from
“accumulate” today. “Even sales in southeastern  Europe  were
slightly below expectations.”  The food retailer will initially lose about 500 million
euros of sales, equal to 2.4 percent of annual revenue,
following the store closures. Once completed, the operation
should generate 40 million euros on an annual basis that
Delhaize will “fully reinvest” in the remaining stores.  Delhaize plans to spend 800 million euros to  850 million
euros  this year opening 200 to 230 new stores and converting a
combined 64 Bloom and Bottom Dollar Food outlets into Food Lion
stores. The new stores will include as many as 29 additional
Bottom Dollar Food supermarkets, mostly in  Pennsylvania .
Delhaize will also reposition an additional 600 to 700 Food Lion
supermarkets after saying the brand strategy led to same-store
sales growth in the 200 stores that have already been
repositioned.  Today’s Plunge  Today’s plunge left Delhaize trading at about 7.5 times
2012 earnings per share, based on the average of 29 analyst
estimates before today’s announcement. That compares with more
than 10 times earnings for Royal Ahold NV and Kroger and more
than 12 times for  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)   “The stock is very cheap,” said Pascale Weber, an analyst
at KBC Securities NV in Brussels. “The discount versus peers
will narrow if the re-launch of Food Lion proves successful.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  