-- Denmark’s Green Europe Meets Chinese Wall on Vestas Cuts
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   W i e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-13T15:29:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/denmark-s-green-europe-meets-chinese-wall-as-vestas-cuts-jobs.html
Denmark’s push for a green  Europe 
suffered a reality check as domestic wind turbine producer
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  cuts back one tenth of its workforce to
survive Chinese competition and a slump in demand.  “When global development is lagging, we have a
challenge,” Jan Hylleberg, chief executive officer of the
Danish Wind Industry Association, said in an interview
yesterday. “Most important for the Danish industry in these
times are the political decisions that need to be taken,
especially in Europe.”  Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt was confronted with
the job cuts yesterday at her first press conference with
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso. Denmark,
which took over the European Union’s rotating presidency Jan. 1,
this week called for an increased focus on green technologies to
cut emissions and secure energy safety in the 27-nation bloc, in
part to highlight the country’s prowess in wind technology.  “This is a very, very sad day for  Denmark ,” the 45-year-
old premier, who was voted into office in September, said at
yesterday’s briefing. “I still think this is the way forward,
investing in new ways of doing things and new technologies, and
despite this enormous setback we’re on the right path.”  Europe’s ambition of leading the world in clean energy and
reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent through 2020 is
suffering setbacks as leaders struggle to generate economic
growth against a backdrop of over-indebtedness and tough
competition from markets such as China.  ‘Climate Crisis’  Officials from almost 200 nations agreed at Dec. 11 UN
climate talks in Durban,  South Africa , to seek a global climate
deal by 2015, with legally binding emissions limits for the
U.S.,  China  and  India  for the first time.  Denmark, which generates more of its electricity from wind
than any other country in the world, in December vowed to take
action after carbon prices in the EU’s emissions trading system
slumped about 50 percent amid an oversupply and on concern that
the debt crisis will trigger a recession.  “Danish wind industry won’t be fatally damaged by this,
but if the energy plan weren’t in the near future, I would be
more doubtful,” said Peter Karnoee, a wind energy researcher
and professor at the Copenhagen Business School. “The climate
crisis isn’t forgotten.”  U.S. Job Cuts  The Vestas job cuts will add to woes in the Nordic nation,
which is close to a recession after the economy shrank 0.5
percent in the third quarter. The nation is struggling to emerge
from twin housing and banking crises that have sapped  consumer
confidence  and undermined investment. Denmark’s unemployment
rate will rise to 6.9 percent next year from 6.5 percent in
2012,  Danske Bank A/S (DANSKE)  said in a Jan. 9 report.  Vestas (VWS) , the world’s biggest wind turbine maker, said it
will halt production at one factory and cut 2,335 staff, with
1,300 of the job losses hitting Denmark, as the company tries to
compete with Chinese suppliers. The Aarhus-based company also
said another 1,600 posts in the U.S. are at risk as a tax credit
supporting the industry ends in December.  Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  has cut sales
forecasts twice since October and announced job cuts three times
in as many years as  Sinovel Wind Group (SINOVZ)  Co. and Xinjiang Goldwind
Science & Technology Co. grabbed market share. Vestas also
suffered from a delay in starting a generator factory as well as
falling wind turbine prices. The company slashed 4,900 jobs in
2010 and 2009. After the latest round of cuts, its workforce
will number about 20,400.  Vestas shares fell 2.8 percent to 56.85 kroner as of 4:28
p.m. in Copenhagen.  Chinese Demand  Still, China may also be a market for many of Europe’s
renewable energy producers. Solar-energy companies, including
 Germany ’s  Solarworld AG (SWV)  surged yesterday after China’s National
Energy Administration said the world’s second-largest economy
plans to double installations this year.  Danish energy-related companies are losing market share and
moving jobs abroad, according to the country’s Energy Agency.
Danish exports of energy technology and equipment fell 10.8
percent in 2010, while the EU average of similar export rose 12
percent, according to the agency’s most recent data. Denmark
still has a larger share of exports of energy technology and
equipment than any other EU country, it estimates.  Denmark embraced renewable energy after the 1973 oil crisis
sent crude prices up more than fourfold over two years. The
country used 30 years of state-subsidies and climate legislation
to turn green technology into its fastest growing export.  A Danish government bill in 1981 stipulated that 10 percent
of total energy consumption by 2005 should come from wind.
Denmark today has the world’s biggest share of wind power as
supply accounted for about one-quarter of total electricity last
year. Thorning-Schmidt’s government said in November it will
spend $1 billion to boost that rate to 52 percent by 2020.  “There’s still potential that she’ll become the green
queen,” said Karnoee at the Copenhagen Business School.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Wienberg at 
 cwienberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at 
 tbrogger@bloomberg.net  