-- Diamond Foods Falls After Report U.S. Prosecutors Join Probe
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d
-- 2012-01-13T21:21:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/diamond-foods-declines-on-report-u-s-prosecutors-joined-accounting-probe.html
Diamond Foods Inc. (DMND) , already under
investigation for possibly violating accounting rules, sank the
most in a month following a report that federal prosecutors in
San Francisco have opened a probe.  Diamond, led by Chief Executive Officer Michael Mendes,
fell 10 percent to $29.73 at 4 p.m. in New York for the biggest
drop since Dec. 12. The shares fell 39 percent last year.  Prosecutors are coordinating with the U.S. Securities &
Exchange Commission to investigate how Diamond Foods paid its
walnut growers, the Wall Street Journal reported on its website
yesterday, citing unidentified sources.  The company began its own investigation last year into
whether money paid to growers in September violated accounting
rules. The SEC opened an inquiry afterward into possible
wrongdoing that may upend Diamond’s proposed $2.35 billion deal
for  Procter & Gamble Co.’s  Pringles snack brand.  “Diamond continues to cooperate with the SEC in its
ongoing investigation,” Lucy Neugart, a spokeswoman for the
company, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “It is not
unusual for the SEC to coordinate with other agencies and to the
extent other agencies request information, the company would
cooperate fully.”  The company’s audit committee hasn’t reached any
conclusions and anticipates completing its investigation by the
middle of February, Neugart said.  ‘Momentum Payments’  “The SEC has said its investigation should not be
construed as an indication that any violations of law have
occurred,” she said.  Joshua Eaton, a spokesman for the U.S. Attorney’s Office in
 San Francisco , declined to comment on Diamond Foods.  The company along with external legal and audit firms, are
looking into so-called “momentum payments” Diamond sent to
walnut growers in September. Diamond said the money was a
prepayment for the current crop year, and as such should be
included in its 2012 fiscal year, which began in August.  Some growers and short-sellers say the payment was to top
off growers who were underpaid last year, according to reports
in the Journal and Barron’s. If so, the payment belongs in
Diamond’s 2011 fiscal year, which would have reduced its annual
profit to $1.14 a share from $2.61, according to an analysis by
Mark Roberts, president of Off Wall Street Consulting Group
Inc., a  New York  research firm.  That would make the exchange of Diamond  shares  for Pringles
much less attractive to P&G shareholders, who will own 57
percent of Diamond under terms of the deal. P&G said Dec. 15
that the Pringles sale depends on the “favorable resolution”
of Diamond’s investigation. Diamond told the Journal its
agreements with growers are confidential.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  