-- Djokovic Faces Lorenzi in Australia, Won’t Meet Nadal, Federer Until Final
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-13T03:57:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/djokovic-to-face-lorenzi-at-australian-open-nadal-federer-get-qualifiers.html
Top-seeded Novak Djokovic will begin
his Australian Open title defense against world No. 108 Paolo
Lorenzi of  Italy , while Rafael Nadal and Roger Federer face
qualifiers in round one and could meet in the semifinals.  Men’s No. 4  Andy Murray  of Britain was paired with 84th-
ranked  Ryan Harrison  of the U.S. in today’s draw for the year’s
first Grand Slam event, which begins Jan. 16 in Melbourne.
Djokovic and Murray are in the top half, ruling out a repeat of
the 2011 final that the Serb won to spark a season in which he
captured three of the four tennis majors.  “I was playing the best tennis of my life, especially in
the opening six months of last season, and one of the strongest
moments was in  Australia ,” Djokovic said at the draw. “That’s
something that gave me a lot of confidence for the rest of the
year.”  No. 2-ranked Nadal of Spain and third-ranked Federer of
Switzerland were selected in the same half of the draw at a
major for the first time since the 2005  French Open , putting
them on course for a potential semifinal matchup. They’ll find
out their first-round opponents after qualifying is completed.  The 2005 Australian Open final, won by Russia’s Marat Safin,
was the last time a player other than Djokovic, Nadal or Federer
took the men’s championship in Melbourne.  Djokovic, who also won the Australian Open in 2008 and is
the bookmakers’ favorite this year, is in line for a
quarterfinal meeting with Spanish No. 5 seed  David Ferrer , who
reached the semifinals last year. Ferrer defeated Djokovic in
their most recent meeting at November’s ATP World Tour Finals.  Murray and Tsonga  Should the top eight men advance, the other quarterfinal
matchups would feature Murray against sixth-seeded Jo-Wilfried Tsonga of France, Federer against American Mardy Fish, the No. 8
seed, and Nadal versus seventh-seeded Tomas Berdych of the Czech
Republic.  Women’s No. 1 seed  Caroline Wozniacki  of Denmark will meet
Australia’s Anastasia Rodionova in round one, while five-time
winner Serena Williams of the U.S. faces Tamira Paszek of
Austria and defending champion Kim Clijsters plays a qualifier.  Wozniacki, Williams and Clijsters all were injured during
tune-up tournaments in Australia this month. All three have said
this week that they expect to be ready for the opening round at
 Melbourne  Park.  Wozniacki is in line for a last-eight matchup against  Li Na ,
who lost to Clijsters in the 2011 final before becoming  China ’s
first Grand Slam singles champion at the French Open. Clijsters
and Li could meet in the fourth round this year.  “I didn’t play many matches in the second half of last
year and missed most of the American summer, but I have trained
hard in the offseason,” said the 11th-seeded Clijsters, a
Belgian. “I am feeling good and ready to go.”  Women’s Quarterfinals  The other women’s top-half quarterfinal might pit No. 3
seed Victoria Azarenka of Belarus against eighth-seeded
Agnieszka Radwanska of Poland.  In the bottom-half quarterfinals, 2008 champion Maria Sharapova may play fellow Russian and No. 7 seed Vera Zvonareva,
who could face Williams in the round of 16. Wimbledon champion
Petra Kvitova, the No. 2 seed from the  Czech Republic , faces a
potential last-eight clash with U.S. Open champion Samantha Stosur of Australia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  