-- Draghi Says Europe Credit Crunch Averted as Signs of Stabilization Emerge
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o c k e t t   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-12T16:12:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/draghi-sees-tentative-signs-of-stabilization-in-economy-downside-risks.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  said the bank has averted a serious credit shortage
and there are signs the economy is stabilizing, signaling policy
makers may resist cutting  interest rates  further for now.  “According to some recent survey indicators, there are
tentative signs of stabilization of economic activity at low
levels,” Draghi said at a press conference in Frankfurt today
after the ECB kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 1 percent
following two straight reductions. While the debt crisis poses
“substantial downside risks” to the economic outlook and the
ECB remains “ready to act,” Draghi gave no indication that
another rate cut is imminent.  With the euro area on the brink of a second recession in
three years, some signs of economic resilience have given the
ECB room to assess the impact of its stimulus measures to date,
which include lending a record amount of cash to banks. Draghi
said those loans prevented a “serious” credit contraction. He
also noted that borrowing costs for governments across the 17-
nation region have dropped.  The euro climbed to $1.2790 at 4.40 p.m. in  Frankfurt  from
$1.2739 before Draghi’s press conference started.  ‘Non-Committal’  “Draghi has been non-committal about policy going forward
and the market had been anticipating that rates are going to be
cut further,” said  Steve Barrow , head of Group of 10 currency
strategy at Standard Bank Plc in London. “He’s also spoken
about tentative signs of stabilization, and maybe those two
factors have helped the euro a little bit.”  Asked if the ECB is open to cutting rates further, Draghi
said it depends on the inflation outlook. He indicated rates
will remain low for an extended period.  “The monetary stance is and will remain accommodative,”
Draghi said. “Uncertainty is very high. We will monitor all
developments and stand ready to act.”  The  Bank of England  also refrained from announcing new
stimulus today, maintaining its 275 billion-pound ($422 billion)
 bond-purchase target  and holding its key rate at 0.5 percent, as
the U.K. economy shows some signs of robustness.  Draghi’s remarks on signs of economic stabilization were
“a recognition that we could have seen the trough in the fourth
quarter,” said Tobias Blattner, a former ECB economist now
working for Daiwa Capital Markets Europe in London. “If that is
the case, they are unlikely to cut rates again. However, he left
the door open for further rate cuts if needed, and if the data
deteriorates rapidly next month then I don’t think they’ll
hesitate.”  Signs of Stabilization  Data this week showed gains in German exports and French
business confidence.  Europe ’s  Stoxx 600 Index  has gained 2
percent this year and is up 16 percent from its 2011 low on
Sept. 22. The euro’s 10 percent drop against the dollar since
late October and an easing of financial conditions may also
provide support as leaders battle to restore investor faith in
their region’s bond markets.  Italy sold 12 billion euros ($15 billion) of Treasury bills
today, meeting its target. The rate on the one-year bills
plunged to 2.735 percent from 5.952 percent at the last auction
of similar-maturity securities on Dec. 12.  Spain sold 9.98 billion euros of bonds maturing in 2015 and
2016, twice the maximum target. The yield on a new benchmark
bond, which matures in July 2015, was 3.384 percent, compared
with 5.187 percent when  Spain  sold notes maturing in April 2015
at an auction in December.  German Recession?  The euro area may still struggle to stave off recession.
German gross domestic product probably dropped 0.25 percent in
the fourth quarter of last year from the third, the Federal
Statistics Office said yesterday. Some economists predict
another contraction this quarter, putting Europe’s largest
economy into recession.  The ECB last month cut its 2012 growth forecast for the
euro region to 0.3 percent from 1.3 percent.  The new estimate “looks optimistic,” said  Nick Kounis ,
head of macro research at  ABN Amro  in Amsterdam. “We think that
further cuts in the central bank’s refinancing rate are likely
going forward, taking it to a low of 0.5 percent.”  Draghi said while inflation will remain elevated for
several months, it will then fall below the ECB’s 2 percent
ceiling.  ECB Loans  The ECB last month loaned financial institutions an
unprecedented 489 billion euros for three years and widened the
pool of collateral they can use to obtain the funds. It will
offer a second batch of three-year loans in February.  “We do think that at least this decision has prevented a
credit contraction that would have been more serious, much more
serious,” Draghi said.  He downplayed the surge in overnight deposits at the ECB to
a record 486 billion euros this week, which suggests banks are
parking the excess cash rather than lending it on.  “By and large, the banks that have borrowed the money from
the ECB are not the same that are re-depositing the money with
the ECB,” Draghi said.  The median forecast in a survey of 21 economists before
today’s decision was for the ECB to keep its key rate at 1
percent through mid 2013.  “Unless there is marked deterioration in economic activity
and credit availability, it does not seem very likely that the
ECB will cut rates in February,” said  Elga Bartsch , chief
European economist at Morgan Stanley in  London . “But then we
are expecting the ECB to revise down its forecasts significantly
in March.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Brockett in Frankfurt at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  