-- Draghi Says Debt-Crisis Strategy Is Working as ECB Postpones ‘Armageddon’
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   J a n a   R a n d o w
-- 2012-01-13T10:48:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/draghi-says-debt-crisis-strategy-working-as-ecb-postpones-armageddon-.html
European Central Bank President
 Mario Draghi  says his strategy for battling Europe’s debt crisis
is starting to work.  The ECB’s massive injection of cash into the financial
system last month is beginning to lubricate seized credit
markets and there are “tentative signs” of economic
stabilization in the euro area, Draghi said in Frankfurt
yesterday. While “substantial downside risks” remain, he
pointed to falling yields on Italian and Spanish debt this week.  That may mitigate the need for further interest rate cuts
in the short term and muffle calls for the ECB to step up its
government bond purchases. While the 17-nation euro region is
still in danger of sliding into recession after the debt crisis
spread to Italy and Spain, driving up borrowing costs and
hurting the export markets of stronger economies such as
Germany, recent data suggest the worst may be over.  “The ECB can be rightly justified in saying that the
Armageddon we were facing toward the end of last year does seem
to have been addressed,” said  James Nixon , chief European
economist at Societe Generale SA in  London . “Further rate cuts
will only be forthcoming if, for example, we see signs of an
outright credit crunch.”  The euro climbed more than a cent after Draghi spoke and
traded at $1.2814 at 11:40 a.m. in Frankfurt today. The ECB
yesterday held its  benchmark rate  at a record low of 1 percent
after two straight reductions, as predicted by 47 of 53
economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  ‘Ready to Act’  Asked if the ECB is open to cutting rates further, Draghi
said it depends on the inflation outlook. He indicated rates
will remain low for an extended period.  “The monetary stance is and will remain accommodative,”
Draghi said. “Uncertainty is very high. We will monitor all
developments and stand ready to act.”  Signs of economic stabilization may stay the ECB’s hand for
the time being.  German exports gained in November and business sentiment in
 France  climbed from a two-year low last month. At the same time,
the German statistics office said on Jan. 11 that  Europe ’s
largest economy contracted in the fourth quarter of 2011,
raising the prospect of recession.  “There are tentative signs of stabilization of economic
activity at low levels,” Draghi said.  Three-Year Loans  In addition, the ECB’s three-year loans to banks, totaling
a record 489 billion euros ($628 billion), are beginning to
unlock markets and have prevented a “serious” credit
contraction, he said.  “It was rather comforting to see that some opening of the
unsecured  bond market  is actually taking place, but we really
are at the beginning of this process,” Draghi said. “Let’s
hope it will continue.”  The market for senior unsecured bonds dried up last July
after European leaders insisted on private investors
participating in a Greek debt write-down. In a sign confidence
may be returning to the market, Rabobank Nederland last week
sold 2.75 billion euros of floating-rate senior unsecured notes
and 1.75 billion euros of senior unsecured bonds.  Draghi said it remains unclear whether banks will use ECB
loans to buy sovereign bonds. He nevertheless noted the recent
decline in yields across the euro region and the lower cost of
borrowing at Italian and Spanish debt auctions yesterday.  Debt Sales  Italy yesterday sold 12 billion euros of Treasury bills,
meeting its target, with the rate on the one-year bills plunging
to 2.735 percent from 5.952 percent at the last auction of
similar-maturity securities on Dec. 12.  Spain  sold 9.98 billion
euros of bonds maturing in 2015 and 2016, twice its maximum
target. Today Italy sold 3 billion euros of 6 percent bonds
maturing in 2014, with the yield falling to 4.83 percent from
5.62 percent.  “While it’s premature to claim that the ECB’s new
liquidity measures have forestalled a credit crunch, their
effect is palpable in government bond markets,” said Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London.
“Who would have predicted in November that in January Italy
would be able to sell one-year paper at 2.7 percent?”  As the debt crisis escalated in the last quarter of 2011,
the ECB faced increasing calls to ramp up its government bond
purchases to cap yields. Draghi and colleagues including
 Germany ’s Jens Weidmann pushed back, urging politicians to sort
out their fiscal problems while the ECB supplied funds to
prevent the banking system from collapsing.  ECB ‘Prescription’  “Beyond providing generous liquidity support to banks, the
ECB does not seem to be contemplating any measure to tackle
tensions in sovereign debt markets more directly,” said  Holger Schmieding , chief economist at Berenberg Bank in London. “If
escalating tensions were to clog up the transmission channels
more severely, the ECB might have to do more.”  Draghi said he expects “substantial demand” for the ECB’s
second batch of three-year loans that will be awarded on Feb.
29. Banks can borrow as much as they like against collateral and
the ECB has widened the pool of assets that can be used for
obtaining the funds.  “The provision of liquidity and the allotment modes for
refinancing operations will continue to support the euro-area
banks, and thus the financing of the real economy,” Draghi
said.  Economists including Marco Valli at UniCredit in Milan say
ECB rates may now be on hold for the rest of the year.  “Obviously things can change very quickly and then the ECB
will act,” said  Ken Wattret , chief euro-area market economist
at BNP Paribas in London. “But for now, its prescription is
doing what it set out to do, so there is no rush to cut rates
and massively step up asset purchases.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in  Frankfurt  at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Jana Randow in Frankfurt at 
 jrandow@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  