-- ECB Holds Rate Steady Amid Crisis Respite
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-01-12T12:45:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/draghi-pauses-interest-rate-cuts-amid-signs-economic-slowdown-is-abating.html
The  European Central Bank (EURR002W)  held
interest rates steady after two straight cuts as signs of
respite from the sovereign debt crisis gave it scope to pause.  ECB policy makers meeting in  Frankfurt  kept the  benchmark
interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent, as predicted by 47
of 53 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News. ECB President  Mario Draghi  will explain the decision at a 2:30 p.m. press
conference.  With the euro area on the brink of a second recession in
three years, some signs of economic resilience have given the
ECB room to assess the impact of its stimulus to date, which
includes injecting a record amount of cash into the banking
system. The central bank may be pressed back into action soon if
looming budget cuts and a credit shortage prove too powerful for
the economy to withstand.  “The ECB is taking a breather because it needs to see how
its measures are feeding through and also keep politicians on
their toes,” said  Carsten Brzeski , senior economist at ING
Group in Brussels. “It’s unlikely to rush into cutting rates
below 1 percent, but it’s pragmatic enough to do so if the
economy tanks.”  Positive Data  Data this week showed gains in German exports and French
business confidence, suggesting the economic slowdown may be
limited. The euro’s 10 percent drop against the dollar since
late October and an easing of financial conditions may also
provide support as leaders battle to restore investor faith in
their region’s bond markets.  The  Bank of England  also refrained from announcing new
stimulus today, maintaining its 275 billion-pound (421 billion)
bond-purchase target and holding its key rate at 0.5 percent, as
the U.K. economy shows some signs of robustness.  “We’ve had a couple of indications that things may not be
as bad in 2012 as people expected them to be,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets who previously
worked at the ECB. “The ECB has factored in this downturn that
we’re seeing, which reflects the view that the recession won’t
be a very deep one.”  German exports rose 2.5 percent in November from October
and business confidence in Europe’s largest economy unexpectedly
rose for a second month in December. A report last week showed
that euro-area services and manufacturing output contracted less
than initially estimated last month, led by Germany.  Borrowing Costs  In  France , the second-largest economy in the 17-nation euro
region, business sentiment climbed from a two-year low in
December and industrial output increased in November.  Borrowing costs have also eased.  Italy sold 12 billion euros ($15.3 billion) of Treasury
bills today, meeting its target. The rate on the one-year bills
plunged to 2.735 percent from 5.952 percent at the last auction
of similar-maturity securities on Dec. 12.  Spain  sold 9.98 billion euros of bonds maturing in 2015 and
2016, twice the maximum target. The yield on a new benchmark
bond, which matures in July 2015, was 3.384 percent, compared
with 5.187 percent when Spain sold notes maturing in April 2015
at an auction in December.  During Draghi’s press conference “the key thing to look
out for will be how the ECB assesses the recent signs of easing
in some segments of financial markets and the stabilization of
growth indicators,” said  Marco Valli , chief euro-area economist
at UniCredit Global Research in Milan.  German Recession?  The economy is far from out of the woods.  German gross domestic product probably dropped 0.25 percent
in the fourth quarter of last year from the third, the Federal
Statistics Office said yesterday. Some economists predict
another contraction this quarter, putting  Germany  into a
technical recession.  Italian unemployment rose to 8.6 percent in November and
 consumer confidence  fell to a 16-year low in December, while
Spanish joblessness rose to a record 22.9 percent in November
and industrial production recorded its biggest drop in two
years.  Greece  is entering a fifth year of recession.  The ECB last month cut its 2012 growth forecast for the
euro region to 0.3 percent from 1.3 percent.  While the median forecast in a survey of 21 economists is
for the ECB to keep its key rate at 1 percent through mid 2013,
Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley all expect
the benchmark to be cut to 0.5 percent by the middle of this
year as recession bites.  ‘Big Year’  “Beyond this week’s meeting, it will be a big year for the
ECB,” said Greg Fuzesi, an economist at JPMorgan in  London .  Concerned its ability to deliver  price stability  is under
threat, the ECB has cut its key rate twice since Draghi took
office on Nov. 1. It has also bolstered efforts to grease
markets by lending banks an unprecedented 489 billion euros for
three years and making it easier for them to borrow. It
continues to buy the bonds of stressed sovereigns such as  Italy .  The measures may be helping, handing governments breathing
space to restore fiscal order and complete an overhaul of budget
rules. The Bloomberg Euro-Area Financial Conditions Index has
risen to minus 4 percent from a low of minus 5.4 percent in
September.  The economy may also receive a fillip from a weaker euro.  Weaker Euro  The single currency has fallen almost 5 percent against
nine developed-nation currencies in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices.
ECB research shows a decline in trade-weighted terms of 10
percent adds 0.7 percent to growth in the first year and 1.2
percent in the second.  Stuttgart-based  Daimler AG’s (DAI)  Mercedes-Benz is targeting
higher car deliveries in 2012 after selling a record number of
vehicles last year, Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said
Jan. 5.  Risks remain as governments impose a fiscal squeeze that
JPMorgan estimates could reach 2 percent of GDP. Greece has yet
to seal a deal with bondholders over a proposed debt write-off
on which fresh aid is contingent, and politicians are still
wrangling over a revamp of budget limits.  Meanwhile, the ECB’s injections of cash are not finding
their way to companies and households. Banks are instead
hoarding the money and parking it back at the ECB. Overnight
deposits at the central bank jumped to a record 486 billion
euros this week.  Italy needs more help from the ECB to emerge from its
“self fulfilling” liquidity crisis,  David Riley , head of the
sovereign-debt unit at  Fitch Ratings , said today in Paris. The
ratings company said Jan. 10 that it’s likely to make a decision
on credit grades for euro-area nations that are under review by
the end of this month.  “ Europe  is still in dangerous territory,” said  Elga Bartsch , chief European economist at Morgan Stanley, who expects
the ECB to eventually engage in more aggressive asset purchases
known as quantitative easing. “But 2012 should also be the year
in which the economy turns around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  