-- Draghi Speaks at ECB Press Conference in Frankfurt: Text
-- B y
-- 2012-01-12T13:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/draghi-speaks-at-ecb-press-conference-in-frankfurt-text.html
Following is the text of ECB
President  Mario Draghi ’s opening statement at a press conference
in  Frankfurt  today.  He spoke after the central bank kept its benchmark interest
rate at 1 percent.  Introductory statement to the press conference
Mario Draghi, President of the ECB,
Vítor Constancio, Vice-President of the ECB,
Frankfurt am Main, 12 January 2012  Ladies and gentlemen, the Vice-President and I are very pleased
to welcome you to our press conference. Let me wish you all a
Happy New Year. We will now report on the outcome of today’s
meeting of the Governing Council.  Based on its regular economic and monetary analyses, the
Governing Council decided today to keep the key ECB interest
rates unchanged, following the 25 basis point decreases on 3
November and 8 December 2011. The information that has become
available since early December broadly confirms our previous
assessment. Inflation is likely to stay above 2% for several
months to come, before declining to below 2%. At the same time,
the underlying pace of monetary expansion remains moderate. As
expected, ongoing financial market tensions continue to dampen
economic activity in the euro area, while, according to some
recent survey indicators, there are tentative signs of a
stabilisation in activity at low levels. The economic outlook
remains subject to high uncertainty and substantial downside
risks. In such an environment, cost, wage and price pressures in
the euro area should remain modest and inflation rates should
develop in line with price stability over the policy-relevant
horizon. Overall, it is essential for monetary policy to
maintain price stability over the medium term, thereby ensuring
a firm anchoring of inflation expectations in the euro area in
line with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but
close to, 2% over the medium term. Such anchoring is a
prerequisite for monetary policy to make its contribution
towards supporting economic growth and  job creation  in the euro
area. A very thorough analysis of all incoming data and
developments over the period ahead is warranted.  The provision of liquidity and the allotment modes for
refinancing operations will continue to support euro area banks,
and thus the financing of the real economy. The extensive
recourse to the first three-year refinancing operation indicates
that our non-standard policy measures are providing a
substantial contribution to improving the funding situation of
banks, thereby supporting financing conditions and confidence.
In addition, we are actively working towards the implementation
of all the measures announced at our December meeting, which
should provide additional support to the economy. As stated on
previous occasions, all the non-standard monetary policy
measures are temporary in nature.  Let me now explain our assessment in greater detail, starting
with the economic analysis. Real GDP in the euro area grew by
0.1% quarter on quarter in the third quarter of 2011. At
present, a number of factors seem to be dampening the underlying
growth momentum in the euro area. They include moderate global
demand growth and weak business and consumer confidence in the
euro area. Domestic demand is likely to be dampened by the
ongoing tensions in euro area sovereign debt markets, as well as
the process of balance sheet adjustment in the financial and
non-financial sectors. At the same time, we continue to expect
euro area economic activity to recover, albeit very gradually,
in the course of 2012, supported by developments in global
demand, very low short-term  interest rates  and all the measures
taken to support the functioning of the financial sector.  In the Governing Council’s assessment, substantial downside
risks to the economic outlook for the euro area continue to
exist in an environment of high uncertainty. They notably relate
to a further intensification of the tensions in euro area debt
markets and their potential spillover to the euro area real
economy. Downside risks also relate to the global economy,
protectionist pressures and the possibility of a disorderly
correction of global imbalances. With regard to price
developments, euro area annual HICP inflation was 2.8% in
December 2011, according to Eurostat’s flash estimate, after
3.0% in the preceding three months. This decline was expected
and reflects a downward base effect stemming from energy prices.
Inflation rates have been at elevated levels since the end of
2010, mainly driven by higher energy and other commodity prices.
Looking ahead, they are likely to stay above 2% for several
months to come, before declining to below 2%. This pattern
reflects the expectation that, in an environment of weaker
growth in the euro area and globally, underlying cost, wage and
price pressures in the euro area should remain modest.  The Governing Council continues to view the risks to the medium-
term outlook for price developments as broadly balanced. On the
upside, the main risks relate to further increases in indirect
taxes and administered prices, owing to the need for fiscal
consolidation in the coming years, and possible increases in
commodity prices. The main downside risks relate to the impact
of weaker than expected growth in the euro area and globally.  Turning to the monetary analysis, taking the appropriate medium-
term perspective, the underlying pace of monetary expansion
continues to be moderate. The annual growth rate of M3 decreased
to 2.0% in November 2011, after 2.6% in October. As in the
previous three months, monetary developments in November were
affected by the heightened uncertainty in financial markets.  The annual growth rate of loans to the private sector, adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation, decreased to 1.9% in
November, from 3.0% in October. The annual growth rates of loans
to non-financial corporations and loans to households, adjusted
for loan sales and securitisation, both moderated in November,
and stood at 1.8% and 2.3% respectively, with slightly negative
monthly flows observed for MFI loans to non-financial
corporations. Overall, despite the moderation in loan growth,
the figures on lending do not so far suggest that the heightened
financial market tensions led to a sizeable curtailment of
credit in the euro area as a whole in the period to November. At
the same time, given that credit supply effects can manifest
themselves with lags, close scrutiny of credit developments is
warranted in the period ahead.  The soundness of bank balance sheets, supported by the increase
in capital positions, will be a key factor in facilitating an
appropriate provision of credit to the economy over time. It is
essential that the implementation of banks’ recapitalisation
plans does not result in developments that are detrimental to
the financing of economic activity in the euro area.  To sum up, incoming information broadly confirms our previous
assessment. Inflation is likely to stay above 2% for several
months to come, before declining to below 2%. As expected,
ongoing financial market tensions continue to dampen economic
activity in the euro area, while, according to some recent
survey indicators, there are tentative signs of a stabilisation
in activity at low levels. The economic outlook remains subject
to high uncertainty and substantial downside risks. In such an
environment, cost, wage and price pressures in the euro area
should remain modest and inflation rates should develop in line
with  price stability  over the policy-relevant horizon. A cross-
check with the signals from the monetary analysis confirms this
picture, with the underlying pace of monetary expansion
continuing to be moderate.  Turning to fiscal policies, euro area governments need to do
their utmost to support fiscal sustainability by correcting
excessive deficits in accordance with the agreed timetables and
by moving to a structural balanced budget or surplus position
over the medium term. Slippages in the implementation of fiscal
consolidation plans of vulnerable countries must be corrected
swiftly by structural fiscal improvements. With regard to the
new provisions of the EU economic governance framework that
recently came into force, it is crucial that all the elements be
implemented rigorously. Only ambitious policies to prevent and
correct macroeconomic and fiscal imbalances will foster public
confidence in the soundness of policy actions, and thus
strengthen overall economic sentiment.  The Governing Council welcomes the European Council’s agreement
to move to a stronger economic union, which was announced on 9
December 2011. The new fiscal compact, comprising a fundamental
restatement of the fiscal rules together with the fiscal
commitments that euro area governments have made, is an
important contribution to ensuring the long-run sustainability
of public finances in the euro area countries. The wording of
the rules needs to be unambiguous and effective. The further
development of the European financial stability tools should
make the operation of the European Financial Stability Facility
and the European Stability Mechanism more effective. The swift
deployment of these tools is now urgently needed. Concerning the
involvement of the private sector in financial assistance for
indebted countries, we welcome the reaffirmation that the
decisions taken on 21 July and 26 and 27 October 2011 concerning
Greek debt are unique and exceptional.  To accompany fiscal consolidation, the Governing Council calls
for the urgent implementation of bold and ambitious structural
reforms. Going hand in hand, fiscal consolidation and structural
reforms would strengthen confidence, growth prospects and job
creation. Key reforms should be rapidly carried out to help the
euro area countries to improve competitiveness, increase the
flexibility of their economies and enhance their longer-term
growth potential. Product market reforms should focus on fully
opening up markets to increased competition. Labour market
reforms should focus on removing rigidities and enhancing wage
flexibility.  We are now at your disposal for questions.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at +44-20-7673-2841 or
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   #<299421.2583362.2.1.95.14779.25>#
 