-- East Europe Policy Makers Said to Meet on Credit Concerns
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l   a n d   Z o e   S c h n e e w e i s s
-- 2012-01-13T10:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/east-europe-policy-makers-said-to-meet-on-credit-crunch-concerns.html
European regulators and financiers
will meet next week to seek ways to prevent western  Europe ’s
banking woes from causing a credit crunch in the continent’s
east, said four people familiar with the agenda.  The Jan. 16 meeting in Vienna, hosted by the Austrian
finance ministry, will bring together senior officials from the
 International Monetary Fund , the European Union, the  European
Central Bank , the European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and the  World Bank , said the people, who declined to
be identified because the meeting isn’t public. They will meet
regulators from the former Communist part of Europe and from
western European countries whose banks dominate the region,
including  Austria ,  Italy ,  France , Belgium and  Germany .  Regulators and policy makers are trying to shield economic
growth in eastern Europe as western lenders curtail credit, the
people said. Some cuts will be inevitable because there is
pressure on the banks to shed assets to improve  capital ratios 
and cut the amount of liquidity they pass on to their
subsidiaries, they said.  The measures that will be discussed may include quotas to
limit asset reductions and ways for international lenders like
the IMF and the EBRD to support lending by providing capital,
liquidity or other instruments, said the people. Additional
meetings will be needed to produce concrete results, they said.  ‘High Risks’  “These new  capital requirements  have to be implemented
cautiously,” EBRD President  Thomas Mirow  said in a speech in
Vallendar, Germany, today. “The risks of accelerated
deleveraging and of increasing home bias are high. No region
would be more vulnerable to this than emerging Europe, with its
deep banking linkages to western Europe.”  Eastern Europe’s biggest lenders need to raise capital
ratios to meet requirements by the European Banking Authority,
which requires core capital reserves of 9 percent after writing
down holdings of sovereign debt by June 30.  That may require the equivalent of 115 billion euros ($147
billion) of capital, according to the EBA. Banks are raising
their ratios at least partly by reducing assets.  Italy’s  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the largest lender in eastern Europe
by assets, needs 7.97 billion euros of fresh capital, according
to the EBA while  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) , the region’s second-
biggest, requires 743 million euros.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , the third biggest, has a
2.1 billion-euro shortfall.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  KBC Groep NV (KBC) 
and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  are next in the ranking of eastern
European banks.  East Europe Boom  In addition to the EBA demands, Austria told its three
biggest banks to limit new lending in eastern Europe to 1.1
times the amount they can raise locally, rather than pass on
liquidity to subsidiaries, as they did in the past. It also
requires a capital surcharge of as much as 3 percentage points.  The lenders, which bankrolled eastern Europe’s boom before
the 2008 credit crunch, are already squeezed by deteriorating
loan quality and slowing economic growth.  The region was the world’s worst-hit in the aftermath of
the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. three years ago
and faces the threat of the same fate as the euro area’s
troubles spread.  Slowing Growth  Eastern Europe’s economic growth is slowing, tracking euro
countries that buy the bulk of the region’s exports. The IMF cut
its 2011 growth estimate the most for the region, along with the
U.S., in its World Economic Outlook last year.  Central and eastern Europe’s economies contracted by 3.6
percent in 2009 before rebounding 4.5 percent in 2010 and 4.3
percent in 2011, according to the  IMF, which in September
predicted  growth will slow to 2.7 percent this year.  Funding from western lenders added 1.5 percentage points to
annual gross domestic product growth from 2003 to 2008 in
eastern Europe,  according to the IMF . Lending in the region
probably weakened in the second half of last year in the 29
countries monitored by the EBRD, the lender said last year.  “Deleveraging is doubtless unavoidable, but will need to
be measured and balanced,” EBRD’s Mirow said.  The most important providers of credit are Austrian banks,
which collectively lent $266 billion to eastern European
households, companies and governments, according to the  Bank for
International Settlements .  ‘Vienna Initiative’  Their engagement prompted Austrian banks, together with
their  finance ministry  and central bank, to start a group dubbed
the “Vienna Initiative” in 2009.  The group, which consists of western banks active in the
region and the official bodies that are meeting in Vienna next
week, helped stabilize the region in 2009. That was achieved by
a collective commitment by the banks not to reduce their lending
in the region and by the international lenders to help with
funding.  The banks, which are not participating in next week’s
meeting, won’t be as easily convinced this time to keep their
lending unchanged, because the pressure on them is coming from
regulators themselves, said Peter Attard Montalto, an economist
at Nomura Holdings, Inc.  The IMF and the other institutions “had a reasonable
argument in 2009 but that simply doesn’t work now,” he said.
“Equally I think there is less panic among the banks in some
sense, and hence less inclination to coordinate.”  Fitch Ratings yesterday downgraded four foreign-owned
Hungarian banks, saying it expects them to get less funding from
their western European parents.  “Fitch expects the parent institutions to retain their
presence in the Hungarian market, although they are likely to
more tightly ration capital and funding given the weak outlook
for the sector,” Fitch said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net ;
Zoe Schneeweiss in Vienna at 
 zschneeweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  