-- ECB’s Draghi Sees ‘Tentative Signs’ of Stabilizing Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-12T14:31:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/ecb-s-draghi-sees-tentative-signs-of-stabilizing-economy-1-.html
European Central Bank President
Mario Draghi comments on monetary policy and the euro-region
economy.  He spoke at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today after the
central bank kept the benchmark interest rate on hold at 1
percent.  On Hungary:  “I have to say that we are really very concerned, because
the ECB is extremely careful and attentive to signs of pressure
being put by the decision-making body of any member state on
their NCBs.”  On former Swiss central bank governor Philipp Hildebrand:  “We all regret the developments that led to Mr.
Hildebrand’s resignation.”  “We will miss a very, very good central banker governor.”  On support for banks:  “We do expect a substantial demand in the second LTRO.”  “There is no doubt that expanding the collateral rules as
we’ve done so that we can increase access to the LTRO by a much
larger variety of banks, we also expand the risks, but our risk
management is very well developed.”  “We are also quite confident that we’ll manage the risks
of this.”  “We are actually giving a substantial contribution to the
real economy by accepting these collaterals; we are also
confident we will manage the risks.”  “The fundamental thing is that the decision gave to all
the banks an insurance against the risk of being without
liquidity.”  “It also gave the banks time to properly manage term
liquidity and assets and liabilities in a more effective way.”  “Some unsecured bank bond markets have reopened.”  “ We also saw  interest rates  declining substantially, if
not dramatically, all along the yield curve, initially along the
short part, but now also along the long part with today’s
declines.”  “We have other signs that this money is actually flowing
through the economy.”  “By and large, the banks that have borrowed the money from
the ECB are not the same that are re-depositing the money with
the ECB.”  “The more liquidity you inject into the system, the bigger
the liability side of the ECB becomes.”  “We do think that at least this decision has prevented a
credit contraction that would have been more serious, much more
serious.”  “There are parts of the euro area where the credit
contraction is already visible, and parts where it is not
already visible.”  “The provision of liquidity and the allotment modes for
refinancing operations will continue to support euro-area banks,
and thus the financing of the real economy. The extensive
recourse to the first three-year refinancing operation indicates
that our non-standard policy measures are providing a
substantial contribution to improving the funding situation of
banks, thereby supporting financing conditions and confidence.
In addition, we are actively working towards the implementation
of all the measures announced at our December meeting, which
should provide additional support to the economy. As stated on
previous occasions, all the non-standard monetary policy
measures are temporary in nature.”  On  Greece :  Greece “has to bring back its fiscal action on track, has
to complete the fiscal reforms and has to move forward on the
fiscal consolidation front.”  “One has to also keep in mind that the negotiation in
Greece takes place between the Greek government and the
creditors so the ECB is not part of the negotiations.”  “PSI was an understandable political response, but it had
unintended consequences. The measure which was went over and
above any expectation at the time. Everybody has realized we
never want to have any PSI in the future.”  On governments’ response to the debt crisis:  “To have a firewall that is really effective, it has to be
operational and fully equipped in order to face the extent of
the challenges are in front of us. Anything the governments will
be able to do to increase the firepower is welcomed by the
ECB.”  “The fiscal contraction ought to be mitigated. Given that
to mitigate this fiscal contraction one has to undertake
structural reforms that are geared to enhance growth,
competitiveness and  job creation .  “It would be highly welcome if this fiscal compact could
be signed at the end of this month rather than waiting for
March.”  “Some of the stressed countries are actually undertaking
very substantial, very significant progress in the fiscal
consolidation area. The markets are showing some appreciation
for this.”  “Euro-area governments need to do their utmost to support
fiscal sustainability by correcting excessive deficits according
to the agreed timetables.”  “It is crucial that all the elements be implemented
rigorously.”  “The Governing Council welcomes the European Council’s
agreement to move to a stronger economic union.”  On the European Financial Stability Facility:  “We are close to signing the agency agreement with the
EFSF.”  “The EFSF has a completely different task to the ECB.”  “We are willing to put all our technostructure at the
disposal of the EFSF.”  On today’s rate decision:  “The decision and the whole discussion was unanimous.”  On monetary policy:  “The monetary stance is and will remain accommodative.”  “It is essential for monetary policy to maintain  price
stability  over the medium term, thereby ensuring a firm
anchoring of inflation expectations in the euro area in line
with our aim of maintaining inflation rates below, but close to,
2 percent over the medium term. Such anchoring is a prerequisite
for monetary policy to make its contribution towards supporting
economic growth and job creation in the euro area. A very
thorough analysis of all incoming data and developments over the
period ahead is warranted.”  On the economy:  “ We see a weakening of the economic activity in the euro
area.”  “Some survey data seem to indicate that there may be some
stabilization at low levels, but it is very hard to express a
judgment of confidence. The hard data don’t yet show this.”  “Inflation is likely to stay above 2 percent for several
months to come, before declining to below 2 percent. At the same
time, the underlying pace of monetary expansion remains
moderate. As expected, ongoing financial market tensions
continue to dampen economic activity in the euro area, while,
according to some recent survey indicators, there are tentative
signs of a stabilization in activity at low levels. The economic
outlook remains subject to high uncertainty and substantial
downside risks. In such an environment, cost, wage and price
pressures in the euro area should remain modest and inflation
rates should develop in line with price stability over the
policy-relevant horizon.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  