-- Economists Scoff at Obama, Romney Job-Creation Myths: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-01-12T00:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/economists-scoff-at-obama-romney-job-creation-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
Mitt Romney’s campaign would have
you believe that every job lost over the past three years is
President  Barack Obama ’s fault. That includes the 820,000 jobs
lost in January 2009, even though Obama didn’t become president
until the 20th of the month.  It includes the 726,000 jobs lost in February 2009, before
any of Obama’s policies had gone into effect. This suggests that
Romney holds a deeply ambitious view of a president’s power to
influence the labor market -- a view, as we’ll see, that’s not
shared by economists who were responsible for White House
economic policies in recent administrations.  Romney, too, discounts the president’s power when he
highlights his own record in  Massachusetts . In fact, Romney’s
campaign asks us to believe that every job created in
Massachusetts while he was governor was Romney’s doing. Obama
might deserve the blame for the jobs lost on his watch, but
 George W. Bush , who was president during Romney’s governorship,
gets no credit for the jobs created on his. Romney also claims
that every job created by any company that Bain Capital LLC had
a hand in should also be credited to Romney -- even if the job
was created long after Bain separated from the company. Heads, I
created a job; tails, you lost one.  The Obama campaign isn’t much better. They want credit for
every job created, but not for every job lost. They also want
Democratic economic policies to get credit for the jobs created
under  Bill Clinton ’s presidency (what tech bubble?) and for
Republicans’ economic philosophy to take the hit for the
financial crisis that began during Bush’s administration (what
Clinton-era opposition to the regulation of derivatives?).  Governor  Rick Perry ’s campaign, meanwhile, assigns Obama
responsibility for every job lost nationwide, but Perry gets
credit for every job created in  Texas . Neat trick. And he, like
all Republicans, wants the jobs created under President  Ronald Reagan  added to conservatism’s side of the ledger.  Believing the Unbelievable  To buy much of this requires you to hold deeply ridiculous
beliefs about the American economy. You must believe that Obama
bears responsibility for events that predate his presidency and
deserves applause for the demand created by aging cars and worn-
down machinery. You must believe that Congress, which controls
fiscal policy, and the  Federal Reserve , which controls monetary
policy, bear little or no responsibility for the economy, but
that the president, who controls neither fiscal nor monetary
policy, is the primary driver of  job creation . You must believe
that governors have absolute power over state economies and that
global demand is irrelevant. You must also renounce belief in
Christmas -- or at least its influence on the consumer-driven
economy.  Virtually no one really believes these things. But
partisans and the news media routinely act as if they are true.
They make up a useful shorthand that is arguably good for the
political system: Better for presidents to believe re-election
hinges on economic performance than, say, on the quality of
their attack ads.  It would be even better if voters had a consistent
benchmark for judging a president’s performance. The question --
and it’s a tough one -- is how to separate the very real
influence a president has on the economy from the myriad other
factors that weigh on whether consumers spend and businesses
hire. I put the issue to an exclusive club of economists who
have an unusually fine-grained understanding of what a president
can and can’t do: the former chairmen of the president’s  Council
of Economic Advisers . I asked each the same question: How much
of national job creation during a presidency can we properly
attribute to the president?  In Their Words  “Very little,” wrote Harvard’s  Martin Feldstein  in an e-
mail. Feldstein led the council under Reagan, and he didn’t see
much role for the president in normal economic times. “The key
is growth of population and labor force participation. Policy --
primarily monetary policy -- affects cyclical conditions and
therefore the  unemployment rate . Fiscal policy is usually
irrelevant but with  interest rates  at the current level there
has been a role for fiscal policy.”  Laura D’Andrea Tyson, a Berkeley economist who served under
Clinton, emphasized the need to consider timing in our
evaluations. “There are significant lags between the time a
President proposes a policy, the time it is enacted by Congress
and the time necessary for it to take effect,” she wrote to me.
“These lags should be taken into account in measuring the
economy’s job performance under a President. The first year
probably should not count at all in terms of assessing the
effects of a new Administration’s policies.”  N.  Gregory Mankiw , a Harvard economist who served as the
council chairman under George W. Bush, directed me to a  blog
post  he had written on the subject. “Randomness is a fact of
economic life,” Mankiw wrote, “and it would be a mistake to
judge a president by the economic outcome during his
administration. It is better to look at the decisions the
president made, and to acknowledge that the outcome is a
function of those decisions and many other factors not under his
control. As an economist, I have views about what best practices
are for economic policy, and I judge presidents by how closely
they adhere to those principles.”  “Unfortunately,” he concluded, “that evaluation process is
not quite as simple and objective as the reader might have hoped
for. But I don’t think there is a better alternative.”  Austan Goolsbee , the council chairman under Obama, tried to
lay out a four part test: “Everyone kind of knows they need to
ask what conditions was the person handed, what did they do,
what was happening elsewhere, and what would have happened if he
wasn’t there?”  Those questions, Goolsbee admitted, are tough to answer.
But whatever the answer is, it needs to take into account that
the president’s control of the economy is at best incomplete.
“Despite continued scrounging around in the basement,” Goolsbee
said of his time in the White House, “I was never able to find
the lever you flip that lets the economy grow and create jobs.”  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer on this story:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 