-- Eircom Junior Lenders Offer 71% Debt Writedown to Avoid Wipeout
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-01-12T13:01:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/eircom-junior-lenders-offer-71-debt-writedown-to-avoid-wipeout.html
Eircom Group Ltd. (ERU) ’s second-lien
lenders proposed writing off 71 percent of their loans, as they
sought to avoid being virtually wiped out in a debt
restructuring plan, two people familiar with the matter said.  The lenders, owed about 350 million euros ($446.6 million),
pitched a revised offer to Eircom and its first-lien lenders
this week, said the people, who declined to be identified, as
the talks are private. The plan involves junior lenders writing
off 250 million euros of loans in exchange for a stake of
between 4 percent and 5 percent in the company. The lenders
would also share in future Eircom profits.  “The board will consider the new second-lien proposal in
due course,” said Paul Bradley, a Dublin-based Eircom spokesman
by phone. He declined to comment further.  Eircom is seeking to restructure the 3.75 billion euros it
has been saddled with following five ownership changes in the
past 13 years. The company, which has secured a waiver from
senior lenders on its financial covenants until end-January,
said last month it was proceeding with “detailed discussions”
with its first-lien lenders on their restructuring plan.  The senior lenders plan involved junior lenders losing
almost all they are owed, people familiar with the matter said
on Nov. 30. The first-lien blueprint envisages these lenders
writing off about 8 percent of their 2.36 billion euros of loans
and taking full control of the company.  A spokesman for the first-lien lenders declined to comment.
Andrea Hurst, a spokeswoman for New York-based Moelis & Co, the
investment bank advising second-lien lenders, declined to
comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net ;
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net ; 