-- Television Blackout Rule for Pro Sports Events Faces FCC Review
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-12T17:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/television-blackout-rule-for-professional-sports-events-faces-fcc-review.html
U.S. regulators asked whether they
should void a television blackout rule that stops cable and
satellite companies from showing professional sports events that
lack a sellout crowd.  The Federal Communications Commission in an e-mailed notice
today called for comments on a petition filed by five groups
that said the rule dating to 1975 “supports blatantly anti-fan,
anti-consumer behavior.”  The rule prohibits cable and satellite companies from
carrying sporting events blacked out on local broadcast
television stations to promote home-game attendance.  The FCC’s decision to take comments is “obviously very
welcome news for sports fans,” Brian Frederick, executive
director of the  Sports Fans Coalition  that signed the petition,
said in an interview. “This is an unnecessary  government
regulation , and I hope after our conversation with them they see
just how anti-consumer and anti-fan this rule is.”  The group, concentrating on blackouts of  National Football
League  games, cited a blacked out home game by the  Tampa Bay
Buccaneers  against the  Houston Texans .  This season, 95 percent of NFL games were being shown in
their local markets, up from 90 percent last season, Brian McCarthy, a spokesman for the league, said in an e-mail today.  The Washington-based Sports Fans Coalition, a nonprofit
advocacy group for fans, accepts funding from Time Warner Cable
Inc. and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , David Goodfriend, a
spokesman for the coalition, said in an interview in November.  Also joining the Nov. 14 petition were the Washington-based
policy groups  Public Knowledge  and Media Access Project; the
National Consumer League, which says it works for economic
justice for consumers; and the League of Fans, a sports-reform
project founded by consumer advocate  Ralph Nader .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  