-- Mercedes-Benz Black Series Returns With $130,000 Racing Coupe
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-12T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/mercedes-black-series-returns-with-130-000-racing-coupe-jason-h-harper.html
On a racetrack, there’s something
that could be called the art of the slide. In a $130,000
Mercedes-Benz at  California ’s  Mazda Raceway Laguna Seca , I think
I may just have perfected it.  The C63 AMG Black Series is the ultimate vehicle for this
perilous task. Rocket into a corner with a bit more speed than
usual, and as you try to turn you’ll find yourself tussling with
physics. The car wants to hurtle straight forward while you’re
trying to coax it to change direction.  The overheated tires are at the edge of adhesion. Add a
taste of gas and the rear tires give up traction just for a
second and the back end kicks out. The nose of the Mercedes is
now pointed in the direction you want to go. Feed back onto the
gas pedal. Turn accomplished.  The technique is fast, and the C63 Black Series was built
to do it. Try it in an old  Porsche 911  and you might find
yourself in a “death spiral,” spinning off the track.  You’d be forgiven for equating Mercedes with leather-
drenched executive sedans instead of hell-for-leather racetrack
rockets. Yet its performance arm, AMG, turns pre-existing models
into more extreme (and expensive) forms. Almost every Mercedes
model has an AMG version -- the regular C350 sedan, for
instance, becomes the C63 AMG.  Then there’s a level beyond: The Black Series. Only two
previous models, the CLK and SL, have gotten Black Series
treatment. They are ludicrous. The CLK, a 2008 model that’s no
longer available, had all the subtlety of  Faye Dunaway  in “Mommy
Dearest.” You could slide it all right -- but you’d likely end
up in that death spiral.  Iron Man Version  Now we get the C63 Black, out in March and based on the C-
Class sedan. It’s less extreme than the CLK, but keener. The
regular C350 compared to the C63 Black Series is like Tony Stark
before he puts on his Iron Man costume. The $41,500 C350 has
four doors and a V-6 engine with 302 horsepower. It reaches 60
miles per hour in 5.9 seconds.  Its Black cousin is a two-door coupe that starts at around
$105,000 and has a 6.3-liter V-8 with 517 hp. Its top speed is
186 mph and it reaches 60 mph in 4.2 seconds.  Walk around the C63 and its racy intentions are clear.
There’s a carbon-fiber wing bristling out of the rear, oversize
Dunlop high-performance tires and a fire extinguisher bracketed
to the front of the driver’s seat.  This low-volume ride is aimed at  Mercedes-Benz (DAI)  customers
who probably have access to a private racetrack on Sundays. You
have to opt for the track and exterior carbon fiber/aerodynamic
packages to get all the hardcore goodies ($5,950 and $13,900). I
imagine most Black Series buyers will go for the full monty. You
can also do without the rear seats, saving weight.  Monterey Pop  Laguna Seca is a 2.2-mile course with 11 turns among the
splendor of Monterey’s sun-dappled hills. A glorious location
and an even better track. It starts with a long scary uphill
around a blind corner, followed by a downhill and a series of
bends.  The C63 has 457 pound-feet of torque and tears up the hill
-- the only pause given is my hesitant right foot on the gas. On
the downside the big brakes do their thing and in the ensuing
curves I begin playing with the sliding technique.  Do it roughly and the car’s electronic traction controls
kick in. You lose speed. Hone your driving and carry through the
turns with finesse, and it’s quick and smooth. You know when
you’ve got the slight slide just right: The sensation transmits
upward from rubber to frame to sports seats to your posterior.  Corkscrew Descent  Eventually the track carries you up to another long hill
that abruptly terminates in Laguna Seca’s famous corkscrew, a
blind descent where the ground disappears under your wheels. The
ensuing section loses more than 100 feet of elevation.  The C63 eats it up.  After my time with the CLK Black, the C63 is a lot less
scary. It seems like a letdown until my third set of laps, when
both the track and the car come into focus.  That’s when I’m able to make the short, sharp slides and
remain in total control. The AMG vehicles are getting better all
the time. The C63 AMG Black Series is a great one.  The last turn before the front straightway is extreme: You
have to enter it slowly and be patient. I’m feeling heady and as
I come onto the straight I stomp on the gas, intentionally
inducing a tire-shredding power slide.  Mercedes mechanics and AMG honchos are in the pit lane and
I see them all shaking their heads as I skid by.  Sorry, maybe I haven’t perfected the art of the slide after
all.  The 2012 Mercedes-Benz C63 AMG Coupe Black Series at a Glance  Engine: 6.3-liter V-8 with 517 horsepower and 457 pound-  feet of torque.  Transmission: Seven-speed automatic.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.2 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 13 city, 19 highway (estimated).  Price as tested: $129,350.  Best feature: Extreme performance that’s manageable.  Worst feature: You have to add all the pricy packages to  get the meanest machine.  Target buyer: The driver who likes to spend time on a  racetrack.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 