-- Tesco Loses Magic Profit Touch as Its ‘Big Price Drop’ Flops
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-13T00:00:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/tesco-loses-magic-profit-touch-as-its-big-price-drop-flops.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  investors are questioning
whether the U.K.’s largest retailer has lost its magic touch.  After generating operating profit  growth  of at least 5
percent in every year bar one since 1994, Tesco yesterday
canceled estimates for 10 percent earnings growth in the 2013
financial year after Christmas sales missed analyst estimates
and its “Big Price Drop” campaign failed to deliver.  The announcement, which slashed the retailer’s market value
by 4.9 billion pounds ($7.5 billion), comes 10 months after
Chief Executive Officer  Philip Clarke  took over from  Terry Leahy , raising concern that Tesco has reached its peak and
competitors will continue to eat into its 30 percent market
share with promotions and fresh food offers.  “Tesco had got too clever,” said Tim Green, who helps
manage more than 24 billion pounds at Brewin Dolphin Holdings
Plc in London, including 0.8 percent of Tesco’s stock. “It was
paring costs to the bone, it was spending too little on staff
and training, service and quality and that doesn’t work when the
rest of the market is moving to upgrade the fresh food offer.”  The company took its eye off the ball in the U.K.,
according to analysts at Shore Capital, allowing rivals such as
 J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  and Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda to win shoppers
with coupons and promotions.  Buffett Stake  Tesco  shares  plunged 16 percent yesterday, the steepest
decline since at least 1988, as analysts such as Jeremy Carter
at  Fitch Ratings  said the retailer’s dominant position in the
U.K. is likely to slip further in the next two years.  Warren Buffett ’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc. owns 3.64 percent of the  stock 
after raising its stake in September and the investor told CNBC
in November he’d buy more shares if the price declined.  Brokerages including Shore Capital,  Charles Stanley , Oriel
Securities and Standard & Poor’s Equity Research cut their
 recommendations  on Tesco after yesterday’s announcement.  “The surprise was the guidance for next year and the
implications in terms of what that means for margin investment
in the U.K. business, which is a structural shift in the U.K.
retail food industry,” Shore Capital analyst Darren Shirley
said. He cut his recommendation to “hold” from “buy.”  “The U.K. was overlooked at the expense of funding some of
the international expansion,” Shirley said.  Tesco, based in Cheshunt, England, gets more than a third
of  sales  from outside the U.K., with operations in Asia, eastern
Europe and the unprofitable Fresh & Easy chain in the U.S.  Improving Competition  A difficult U.K. economy and improving competition mean low
prices must remain “a central plank” of Tesco’s strategy,
reducing its ability to boost margins, Fitch’s Carter said.  The retailer announced its Big Price Drop on 1,000 everyday
items in September and extended the campaign before Christmas.
Double points on its Clubcard loyalty program were dumped in
favor of a reduction in price on milk, bread and detergents.  “In a very noisy promotional market with heavy couponing,
our very strong pricing position didn’t cut through as much as
we’d expected,” Clarke told journalists on a call yesterday.
Tesco will make “faster, more comprehensive investment in the
U.K. business,” which will be to address “long-standing
issues” such as product quality, range and service, he said.  Tesco’s U.K. same-store sales declined 2.3 percent,
excluding fuel and value-added tax, in the six-week Christmas
period, trailing growth of 1.2 percent at Sainsbury and 0.7
percent at  William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW)  on that basis.
Sainsbury began its Brand Match price-comparison program in
October and held promotions on fuel and toys to win shoppers.  Market Share  “After several years of investment, Tesco’s main
competitors have significantly improved,” Fitch’s Carter said.
“Tesco’s plans to improve the quality, range and service in its
U.K. supermarkets will not halt the rise of its competitors.”  The retailer’s market share slipped to 0.4 percentage point
to 28.9 percent in the 12 weeks to Dec. 24, according to
Nielsen. It fell to 30.1 percent from 30.5 percent, according to
Kantar Worldpanel.  Product availability, ambience, checkout times and  customer
service  are areas where the retailer must improve, Shirley said.  “It’s going to be a number of quarters before in-store
initiatives start to gain traction and impact like-for-like
sales as well,” the analyst said.  Analysts such as Deutsche Bank AG’s James Collins say Tesco
will stop short of starting a “price war” with competitors.  “It will continue to invest in Big Price Drop and will
rebalance the promotional mix, but much of the incremental
investment will be in operating costs such as in-store labor,
which have become too pressured in efforts to improve
productivity and which have damaged the customer shopping
experience in areas such as fresh produce in particular.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  