-- Tesco to Buy More Products From India With Retail Rules on Hold
-- B y   M a l a v i k a   S h a r m a
-- 2012-01-12T18:31:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/tesco-to-buy-more-products-from-india-with-retail-rules-on-hold.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest
supermarket operator, plans to buy more clothes, shoes and
bicycles from  India  next year and will boost those purchases
further if the country’s retail market opens.  Tesco plans to  source products  with a retail value of 370
million pounds ($567 million) from India in the 12 months ending
February 2013, up from 325 million pounds this fiscal year,
Shantanu Singh, country manager for Tesco International Sourcing
told reporters in Bangalore on Jan. 6. About 7 percent of
Tesco’s international sourcing is from India.  Tesco’s increased purchases from India will help it trim
costs and develop local expertise ahead of a possible opening of
the nation’s $400 billion retail market to multiple-brand
retailers. The U.K. chain, which is losing share in its home
market and today lowered its profit outlook after disappointing
holiday sales, needs growth overseas to boost revenue.  “There’s a huge potential for better retail in India
simply because it’s such a large country,” said Lucy Neville- Rolfe,  executive director , corporate and legal affairs. “The
population is growing, it’s becoming richer.”  India on Jan. 10 abandoned a rule against foreign single-
brand retailers operating stores without a local partner, paving
the way for global companies including  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  and Ikea.
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , Tesco and other foreign chains are still
excluded from the retail market after an attempt to change the
policy last year failed.  ‘No Idea’  “Now FDI has been pushed further away,” said David
Morris, chief operating officer at Star Bazaar, a hypermarket
set up by Trent Ltd., with which Tesco has a franchise deal.
“We have no idea when it may happen, we’ll just have to wait.”  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh ’s administration has
struggled to advance its initiatives amid opposition from its
own allies and a corruption scandal that paralyzed parliament.
Foreign multibrand retailers are presently only allowed to
invest in wholesale ventures.  The U.K. retailer in 2008 signed a franchise agreement with
 Trent. (TRENT) , a unit of India’s  Tata Group . Under the agreement, Tesco
provides retail expertise to Star Bazaar. The chain will add two
hypermarkets to reach 15 over the next three months, said
Morris.  “Although Tesco doesn’t have a store which says ‘Tesco’
over the door, it is actively learning and is involved in the
India retail market, because it’s providing strategic and
operational support to Star Bazaar,” said Clive Black, head of
research at Shore Capital Group Ltd. in  London .  Tesco operates a  service center  in Bangalore that provides
financial and business support to the group in 13 countries.  The eight-year-old venture, which currently employs more
than 6,000 people, includes a department that creates mobile and
tablet shopping applications for Tesco and a team of architects
who help design the company’s retail spaces.  Star Bazaar  Tesco, which had announced plans to set up cash-and-carry
stores in India, decided to focus on managing wholesale
operations for Star Bazaar and not set up stores, Morris said.
The Cheshunt, England-based retailer in 2008 said it would
invest as much as 60 million pounds in wholesale operations.  India’s rules currently allow full foreign ownership of
wholesale or ‘cash-and-carry’’ stores.  Carrefour (CA)  SA operates two
wholesale stores in the country, while Wal-Mart has opened 14
since 2008 in partnership with billionaire Sunil Bharti Mittal’s
Bharti Enterprises.  International retailers such as Tesco, Wal-Mart and
 France ’s Carrefour have been waiting for access to India’s
market. The government last month reversed a Nov. 24 decision to
allow foreign companies to own as much as 51 percent of stores
selling more than one brand. That change followed protests from
political parties and trade groups, who said the move would hurt
the interests of small store owners.  Prime Minister Singh has pledged to open the Indian retail
market to foreign investors after last month’s reversal.  Tesco’s U.K. same-store sales have fallen for four straight
quarters as increased joblessness and rising fuel and food bills
weigh on  consumer spending .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Malavika Sharma in  New Delhi  at 
 msharma52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  