-- Tesco, Home Retail Lose Out as Competitor Discounts Hurt Sales
-- B y   P a u l   J a r v i s
-- 2012-01-12T12:07:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/tesco-home-retail-lose-out-as-competitor-discounts-hurt-sales.html
Tesco Plc (TSCO)  and  Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) 
emerged as two of the main casualties among U.K. retailers over
the holiday season after being outmaneuvered by competitors that
offered discounts to cash-strapped Britons.  Tesco, the U.K.’s largest food retailer, reined back profit
expectations today after promotions at rivals such as J
Sainsbury Plc overshadowed its Big Price Drop campaign. Home
Retail forecast lower earnings and said it will cut its dividend
after a slump in sales at the Argos chain, which was targeted by
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) ’s Asda in a price campaign on toys.  “Tesco’s major problem is that the competition has been a
little smarter and a little more proactive when it comes to
promotions,” said  Nick Bubb , an independent retail analyst with
35 years’ experience. “Argos is competing with supermarkets,
Dixons and  John Lewis . Everyone is out to get them.”  U.K. retailers discounted more deeply and earlier than in
previous years as they fought harder for shoppers who had less
to spend on gifts and festivities. Tesco chose not to follow a
“blizzard of coupons” by competitors, Chief Executive Officer
 Philip Clarke  said today, while Argos responded to Asda by
offering 50 percent discounts on toys, reducing profitability.  Tesco  fell  as much as 16 percent in London trading, the
steepest decline since at least 1988, wiping 4.9 billion pounds
($7.5 billion) off the company’s market value. Home Retail
 declined  as much as 7.2 percent, the most since Dec. 14.  Profit Estimates  Profit at Cheshunt, England-based Tesco will be at the
“low end of the current consensus range” in the financial year
ending next month, the company said today. There will be
“minimal” growth in so-called group  trading profit  next year
as the retailer invests “hundreds of millions” of pounds in
better quality, service and prices, and a greater range of
products, Finance Director Laurie McIlwee said on a conference
call. Before today, analysts had been estimating growth of about
10 percent, he said.  U.K. sales at stores open at least a year fell 2.3 percent,
excluding fuel and value-added tax, in the six weeks ended Jan.
7, Tesco said, worse than the median estimate of 10 analysts
compiled by Bloomberg for a 1 percent decline.  The retailer offered fewer coupons than competitors over
the holiday as it focused on a campaign to cut the cost of 3,000
everyday items.  Big Price Drop  didn’t drive the improvement in
volume needed to offset reduced prices, Tesco said.  Promotion Failure  “The lowering of prices did drive higher sales, but the
pressure on margins rendered the promotion unsuccessful,” said
 Richard Hunter , head of equities at Hargreaves Lansdown
Stockbrokers in London. “Meanwhile, Tesco’s competitors had
rather more success over the period.”  Sainsbury (SBRY)  said yesterday that same-store sales rose 1.2
percent, excluding fuel and value-added tax. Sainsbury began its
Brand Match price-comparison program in October and held
promotions on fuel and toys as it fought for shoppers. The
grocer offers to match the prices of Tesco and Asda on 12,000
branded products or to issue customers with a coupon for the
difference at the checkout.  Home Retail, the owner of the Argos and Homebase chains,
said today that full-year pretax profit will “be around the
midpoint of the current analyst range” of 78 million pounds to
125 million pounds. The  Milton Keynes , England-based retailer
earned 254 million pounds on the same basis a year earlier.  Argos same-store sales fell 8.8 percent in the 18 weeks
ended Dec. 31, hurt by competition from supermarkets including
Asda and Web retailers such as Amazon.com Inc.  “Argos sales continue to be impacted by the market decline
in consumer electronics categories,” Chief Executive Officer
Terry Duddy said in a statement, describing the trading
environment as “both volatile and demanding.”  Halfords, Mothercare  U.K. consumer confidence slid in December to the lowest
level in almost three years, GfK NOP Ltd. said Dec. 21.  Halfords Group Plc (HFD) , a U.K. seller of car parts and
bicycles, and  Mothercare Plc (MTC) , a retailer of children’s clothing,
also reported weaker sales today. At Halfords, revenue in the
U.K. and Ireland declined 4.4 percent in the 13 weeks ended Dec.
30 as mild winter weather affected sales of car maintenance
products. Mothercare said U.K. same-store sales fell 3 percent
in the 13 weeks ended Jan. 7, although an increase in promotions
fueled a 5 percent increase during the month of December.  Among a clutch of other retailers reporting holiday sales,
 JD Sports Fashion Plc (JD/)  said same-store sales rose 1.6 percent in
the five weeks ended Jan. 7. House of Fraser Ltd., a closely
held department-store chain, reported 3.6 percent growth in
same-store revenue for the last nine weeks of 2011, while
fashion retailer New Look said five-week like-for-like sales
rose 3.6 percent. The three companies include revenue from an
increase in value-added tax in their calculations.  Outside the U.K., Delhaize Group SA, the Belgian owner of
the U.S. Food Lion supermarkets, reported sales that missed
analysts’ estimates and said it will close 146 unprofitable
stores. The stock dropped as much as 11 percent in Brussels.  Fast Retailing Co.,  Asia ’s biggest clothing retailer,
lowered forecasts for annual sales and profit after longer-than-
expected summer weather damped demand for winter clothing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Paul Jarvis  in  London  at 
 pjarvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  