-- EU Ends Duties on U.S. Vinyl-Acetate Makers Such as Dow Chemical
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-01-12T09:06:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/eu-ends-duties-on-u-s-vinyl-acetate-makers-such-as-dow-chemical.html
The European Union removed tariffs
against the U.S. on a chemical used in paints and paper coatings
after U.K. producer Ineos Oxide Ltd. withdrew a complaint about
price undercutting.  The policy reversal ends duties as high as 13.8 percent on
U.S. exporters including  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  for allegedly having
sold vinyl acetate in the EU below cost, a practice known as
 dumping . Vinyl acetate is also used in such goods as safety
glass and glues for furniture and floors.  The EU introduced the levies last August on a provisional
basis as part of a probe into whether to impose five-year trade
protection, saying Ineos Oxide and Germany’s  Wacker Chemie AG (WCH) 
suffered “material injury” as a result of dumped imports from
the U.S.  Ineos Oxide, which filed a dumping complaint against U.S.
vinyl-acetate exporters in October 2010, withdrew the allegation
on Nov. 4, 2011, the European Commission, the 27-nation EU’s
trade authority, said today in the bloc’s  Official Journal . The
commission closed the dumping investigation and ordered that EU
importers be refunded the provisional duties.  U.S. exporters including Dow Chemical,  LyondellBasell
Acetyls LLC  and Celanese Ltd. expanded their combined share of
the EU market for vinyl acetate by 49 percent in the 12 months
through September 2010 compared with 2007, the commission said
on Aug. 17 when introducing the provisional duties. EU imports
from the U.S. grew to 152,445 metric tons from 103,192 tons over
the period, according to the commission, which indexed the
numbers on total European consumption of vinyl acetate to
protect confidential business data.  The levies amounted to 12.1 percent against Celanese, 13
percent against LyondellBasell Acetyls and 13.8 percent against
Dow Chemical and any other U.S. vinyl-acetate exporters.  The duties were the preliminary outcome of the EU dumping
inquiry opened in December 2010 as a result of the complaint by
Ineos Oxide, which accounts for more than a quarter of the
bloc’s production of vinyl acetate. Wacker supported the case,
the commission said in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Brussels at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  