-- EU’s Space-Conduct Code Rejected by U.S. as ‘Too Restrictive’
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-01-12T17:20:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/eu-s-space-conduct-code-rejected-by-u-s-as-too-restrictive-.html
The U.S. won’t sign on to a European
Union code of conduct for operations in outer space and will
propose other multinational means of minimizing the risks of an
arms race or damage to satellites.  “We’ve made very definitive that we’re not going to go
along with the European code of conduct,” Ellen Tauscher, the
undersecretary of state for arms control and nonproliferation,
said today. “What we haven’t announced is what we’re going to
do. But we will be doing that soon.”  Tauscher told a forum of the Defense Writers Group in
 Washington  that the European code, proposed in 2008 and revised
in 2010, is “too restrictive.” She declined to elaborate or
say what the U.S. would propose as an alternative.  The drive for international standards on conduct in outer
space accelerated after the Chinese military’s January 2007
destruction of a weather satellite that generated what the U.S.
said was a potentially dangerous amount of debris. The Pentagon
tracks about 22,000 man-made objects in orbit.  In February 2011, U.S. Senator  Jon Kyl  of  Arizona  and other
Republicans sent a letter to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton 
expressing concern that the administration might sign on to the
European code of conduct, which they said would limit U.S.
options to pursue missile defense and space-based systems.  The Obama administration said in its February 2011  National
Security Space Strategy  that it would cooperate with allies and
partners to “seek common ground among all space-faring
nations.”  “The  United States  will support development of data
standards, best practices, transparency and confidence-building
measures, and norms of behavior for responsible space
operations,” the administration said in an unclassified version
of the strategy document. The summary also updated how the U.S.
acquires and exports satellite technology amid increasing global
competition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in Washington at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  