-- European Industrial Output Declines Again
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-12T11:54:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/euro-region-industrial-production-fell-third-month-in-november.html
Euro-area  industrial production 
declined for a third straight month in November, adding to signs
that the economy failed to expand in the fourth quarter as
leaders struggled to quell the region’s fiscal crisis.  Production in the 17-nation euro area fell 0.1 percent from
October, when it dropped a revised 0.3 percent, the European
Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists
had forecast a decline of 0.3 percent, the median of 26
estimates in a  Bloomberg News (EUITEMUM)  survey showed.  Europe’s economy is edging toward a recession as
governments toughen budget cuts, eroding  consumer spending , and
global export demand weakens. Economic confidence dropped to the
lowest in more than two years in December and manufacturing
contracted. The  European Central Bank  will probably keep
 borrowing costs  at a record low today.  “The figures today were pretty disappointing,”  Ben May , a
European economist at  Capital Economics  in  London , said by
telephone. “Other indicators continue to look very weak. It’s
very likely that the economy contracted in the fourth quarter
and we don’t think it’s going to be a one-off blip. We think a
recession is looking inevitable.”  The euro-region economy probably expanded 1.6 percent in
2011 and growth may slow to 0.3 percent in 2012, the ECB said on
Dec. 8. The central bank on that day lowered its  benchmark
interest rate  by 25 basis points to 1 percent and extended the
use of unconventional tools. It will announce today’s rate
decision at 1:45 p.m. in  Frankfurt .  German Output  The ECB’s actions probably failed to keep the economy from
cooling after gross domestic product rose just 0.1 percent in
the third quarter. European  economic confidence  slumped last
month and unemployment held at 10.3 percent in November, the
highest in more than a decade. German factory orders plunged in
November.  In  Germany , Europe’s largest economy which has driven the
region’s economic expansion, output slumped 1 percent from
October, when it rose 0.8 percent, today’s report showed. Italy
and France reported gains of 0.3 percent and 1.1 percent.  European companies are under pressure to lower costs as the
debt crisis forces governments from Italy to Spain to toughen
spending cuts just as export demand weakens.  Royal Philips (PHIA) 
Electronics NV, the world’s biggest maker of light bulbs, said
on Jan. 10 that fourth-quarter earnings before interest, taxes
and amortization slumped 45 percent.  ‘Healthy’ Holiday Sales  The latest gloomy economic indicators in Europe contrasted
with the U.S., where retail sales probably rose in December as
Americans bought discounted holiday items, giving the economy a
boost entering 2012, economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.3 percent gain would follow a 0.2 percent
advance in November, according to the  median forecast  of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The Commerce Department
will report the sales data at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  “Holiday shopping was fairly healthy, with retailers
aggressively discounting items,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “The American
consumer can continue spending at a modest to moderate clip now
that employment growth is picking up and household finances are
in somewhat better shape.”  Initial U.S. jobless claims  were little changed last week,
rising to 375,000 from 372,000 in the previous period, data from
the Labor Department may show at 8:30 a.m. The latest four-week
average of claims is the lowest in more than three years.  Policy Shift  In  Asia ,  China ’s inflation rate fell to a 15-month low and
producer-price gains were the smallest in 2 years in December,
leaving the government more room to support growth as a global
slowdown hurts exports.  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent from a year earlier, the
National Bureau of Statistics said in Beijing today. That may
allow Premier Wen Jiabao to proceed with a shift in policy focus
to bolstering expansion as  Europe ’s debt crisis crimps overseas
demand and officials sustain a campaign to cool property prices.
Imports and exports increased the least in two years last month,
excluding seasonal distortions, and a report next week may show
the world’s second-largest economy expanded at the slowest pace
in 10 quarters.  “Inflation will no longer be a constraint on policies and
officials will look more to other economic data to decide if
there is a need to ease policies,” said  Ken Peng , a Beijing-
based economist with BNP Paribas SA, the only bank to correctly
forecast the inflation reading. “Still, policy makers may remain
wary of inflation for a while because the number still exceeded
the yearly target.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  