-- EU Iran Oil Embargo Over Nuclear Work Said Likely to Be Delayed Six Months
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-13T14:20:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/european-union-oil-embargo-of-iran-said-likely-to-be-delayed-by-six-months.html
A European Union embargo on imports
of  Iranian (OPCRIRAN)  oil will probably be delayed for six months to let
countries such as Greece,  Italy  and  Spain  find alternative
supplies, two EU officials with knowledge of the talks said.  The embargo, which would need to be accepted by the 27-
nation bloc’s foreign ministers on Jan. 23, is also likely to
include an exemption for Italy, so crude can be sold to pay off
debts to Rome-based  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s largest oil company,
according to the officials, who declined to be identified
because the talks are private.  A ban on petrochemical products would start sooner, about
three months after EU ministers agree to the measure, one
official said yesterday. Once a decision is made,  member states 
would be barred from concluding new oil contracts with  Iran  or
renewing those that are due to expire, while existing deals will
be terminated within six months, according to a second diplomat
today. Long-term contracts constitute the bulk of Europe’s
purchases of Iranian oil.  “Work by experts from the 27 member states is in a very
intensive phase,” Maja Kocijancic, a spokeswoman for the
European Commission, said by phone yesterday from Brussels.
“They are looking into different options for restrictive
measures with a view to adoption on Jan. 23.” She declined to
comment on possible phase-in periods or exemptions.  Crude prices dropped on the news, falling 1.8 percent to
$99.10 a barrel yesterday on the  New York Mercantile Exchange ,
the lowest settlement since Dec. 30. Oil was at $98.22 today.  Italy,  Greece  Concern  Phasing in the European embargo would satisfy the concern
of nations most dependent on Iranian crude, including Italy,
Greece and Spain, the first EU official said. Those three
nations accounted for 68.5 percent of EU imports from Iran in
2010, according to European Commission data.  The U.K.,  France  and Germany pressed for a three-month
delay, Nigel Kushner, a London-based international-trade lawyer
specializing in Iran sanctions, said in an interview.  “It’s my understanding that the Greeks were looking for a
12-month delay” and a six-month compromise appears likely,
Kushner said. “No doubt the Greeks are saying to rest of EU,
‘If we play ball, what are you giving us in return?”  Greece, facing a debt crisis, is buying oil from the
Persian Gulf state on credit.  Nuclear Pressure  Germany , France and the U.K. have been pushing for the
embargo to increase pressure on Iran over its nuclear program,
and it has the support in principle of all member states, the EU
official said yesterday. While Western countries say the Gulf
state may be seeking the capability to build nuclear weapons,
Iran says its program is for civilian electricity and medical
research.  International Atomic Energy Agency inspectors will go to
Tehran at the end of the month to discuss Iran’s nuclear
program, two diplomats with knowledge of the talks said today.  Iran’s willingness to resume talks doesn’t mean it’s ready
to negotiate restrictions on its nuclear program, said Michael
Singh, a former official on the U.S. National Security Council.  The nation’s ability to manufacture nuclear fuel rods and
its decision to move some of its nuclear-enrichment activities
to a well-protected facility near the Shiite holy city of Qom
suggest the opposite, he said.  Negotiating Delay  “All the signals from the Iranians are not that they’re
now willing to negotiate an end to their nuclear program, but
that they’re not,” said Singh, who is now at the  Washington 
Institute for Near East Policy. “They’re probably hoping to use
talks as a delaying tactic, and to raise the hopes of those in
the international community who think that negotiations can
resolve the issue.”  As  Europe  weighs its embargo, President  Barack Obama ’s
administration has sent teams worldwide to consult with
countries on managing the supply and demand of oil, according to
an administration official who briefed reporters in Washington.  The teams are part of the administration’s efforts to
implement Iran sanctions mandated in a law Obama signed on Dec.
31. The law would cut off foreign financial institutions that
knowingly facilitate significant transactions with the Central
Bank of Iran. The U.S. intends to close down the bank, said the
U.S. official, who wasn’t authorized to speak on the record.  Obama’s Goal  The U.S. goal is to convince countries that the Iran is no
longer a reliable  source  of oil, a strategy that already is
paying off as countries that deal with the Gulf state have
difficulty getting their financing guaranteed and as nations
such as China and  India  seek to diversify their sources,
according to the official.  Iran, the second largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries, pumped 3.58 million barrels of
crude a day last month, according to Bloomberg estimates.  Under the emerging European agreement, every three months
the EU would assess its impact on member economies, check
whether countries are finding alternate supplies and monitor the
effect on  oil prices , the EU official said yesterday.  There are no plans to compensate affected European nations,
and the current emphasis is on finding oil from alternative
sources at similar prices, the official said.  The Iranian government said in a letter to United Nations
Secretary General Ban Ki-Moon that a civilian nuclear scientist,
Mostafa Ahamdi Roshan, who was killed by a bomb Jan. 11 was the
fourth victim of a foreign terror campaign. Iran has accused the
U.S. and Israel of targeting Iranian nuclear scientists.  Scientists Targeted  “We are very active in this branch of science,” Iranian
Parliament Speaker Ali Larijani told journalists in Ankara
yesterday, referring to his country’s nuclear program. “If
Israel thinks it can stop us with four acts of terror, their
logic is flawed.”  Tensions over the ratcheting up of sanctions led Iranian
Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi to threaten on Dec. 27 that
Iran may block the Strait of Hormuz, the transit for about a
fifth of the world’s oil, if the EU bans exports from the
Islamic Republic.  U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey
said on Jan. 9 that Iran can temporarily choke off the waterway,
through which 17 million barrels of oil pass each day, the
Energy Department estimates.  OPEC’s other members would be able to make up for a drop in
Iranian oil supply if the EU agrees to an embargo, said  Chakib Khelil , the group’s former president. Even so, prices may
temporarily rally to as high as $200 a barrel on news of any
such blockade, he said today in  London .  “It should be possible to replace, at least, the European
consumption of Iranian oil,” Khelil said in an interview with
 Mark Barton  on Bloomberg Television’s “On the Move.”  OPEC’s members, responsible for about 40 percent of the
world’s oil production, are Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran,
Iraq, Kuwait,  Libya ,  Nigeria , Qatar,  Saudi Arabia , the United
Arab Emirates and Venezuela. Khelil was Algeria’s oil minister
from 1999 until last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  