-- European Officials Weigh FDA Investigation on Fungicide in Orange Juice
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n   a n d   A n d r e a   G e r l i n
-- 2012-01-12T20:45:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/european-officials-weigh-fda-investigation-on-fungicide-in-orange-juice.html
European Union member states will
review U.S. tests of imported  orange juice  next week amid
concerns about a fungicide sprayed on fruit trees in Brazil, an
EU official said.  The EU’s Standing Committee on Food Chain and  Animal Health 
will discuss Brazilian growers’ use of carbendazim at its
regular meeting Jan. 16-17 and whether more testing is needed,
 Frederic Vincent , the bloc’s spokesman on health, said today in
a telephone interview. While no European country has halted
imports, juice with concentrations of greater than 0.2 milligram
per kilogram can’t enter  Europe , he said.  The  Food and Drug Administration  said this week that it’s
holding back orange-juice imports so they can be tested for
carbendazim, a chemical that isn’t approved for oranges in the
U.S., and will ban products that contain it.  The U.S. tests continue and “we are taking them from
imports as they come in,”  Siobhan DeLancey , an FDA spokeswoman,
said today in an e-mail. “We have three preliminary test
results that are negative for carbendazim. Once those results
are final, we’ll be allowing the shipments to enter the
country.”  The Coca Cola Co. (KO) , owner of the Minute Maid brand, said
yesterday that it had brought the use of the fungicide by some
Brazilian orange growers to the FDA’s attention. The company
said in a statement that Brazilian orange juice is safe and it
will take guidance from the FDA in resolving the situation.  Few Calls  Coca-Cola has received a “relatively small number of
calls” from consumers on the issue, compared with a typical
day’s volume, said Dan Schafer, a company spokesman.  Orange-juice futures fell today, capping the biggest two-
day drop in more than three years, as concerns eased that cold
weather in  Florida  and the FDA’s probe would limit supplies.
Orange-juice futures for March delivery dropped by the 10-cent
exchange limit, or 5.3 percent, to settle at $1.781 a pound at 2
p.m. on ICE Futures U.S. in  New York . That brought the two-day
plunge to more than 14 percent, the most since September 2008.  The commodity jumped 17 percent in the first two days of
this week amid concern the FDA’s probe will limit imports from
Brazil, which supplied about 25 percent of the orange juice
consumed in the U.S. in 2010. The price is up 5.4 percent in
January, after posting three straight yearly gains.  FDA Inquiry  Trace amounts of carbendazim found in orange juice don’t
raise safety concerns, the agency said Jan. 9 in a  letter  to the
Juice Products Association in  Washington . The presence of the
fungicide was reported to the FDA Dec. 28 by a company the
agency didn’t identify.  The FDA’s inquiry poses “a bit of a quandary” for orange-
juice marketers including Atlanta-based Coca-Cola and  PepsiCo
Inc. (PEP) , the Purchase, New York-based maker of Tropicana, said
Sterling Smith, an analyst at Country Hedging in  St. Paul ,
 Minnesota .  If the companies find they have orange juice on hand with
carbendazim levels that represent a health risk, they will have
to buy more to replace those inventories, Smith said in a
telephone interview.  If the investigation “goes on for an extended period of
three months or longer, we will have only our supply to meet
demand,” potentially boosting prices, he said.  Carbendazim is approved in the EU for use “in cereal,
grapes, sugar, beets and maize, but not in orange juice except
for import at a tolerance of 0.2 milligrams per kilogram,”
Vincent said. “If at the borders a member state finds imports
of orange juice with the product above that level, the orange
juice cannot enter the EU. At this stage, no member state has
ceased imports of orange juice from  Brazil .”  Katherine Martin, a 40-year-old administrative manager in
New York, is a regular orange-juice drinker in winter who said
she will forego the beverage because of fungicide concerns.  “It’s very scary to me,” Martin said in an interview.
“It’s going to stop me from drinking orange juice.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net 
Andrea Gerlin in London at 
 agerlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  