-- Europe Drugmakers May Boost Acquisitions After Buyback Focus
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-01-13T09:02:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/europe-s-drugmakers-may-boost-acquisitions-after-buyback-focus.html
Europe ’s largest drugmakers may step
up acquisitions of biotechnology companies this year after
spending money in 2011 on stock buybacks and higher dividends to
keep shareholders happy.  The value of acquisitions announced by Europe’s 10 largest
pharmaceutical companies plunged to $2.1 billion in 2011 from
$42.7 billion the year before, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg, as drugmakers shunned the megadeals of 2010.  The industry faces the possible loss of $21 billion in
sales this year from patent expirations, according to Bloomberg
Industries, so the incentive to acquire companies to gain new
products will grow, said  Les Funtleyder  of Miller Tabak & Co.
Companies including  AstraZeneca Plc (AZN) ,  Novartis AG (NOVN)  and Sanofi also
had setbacks with drugs in development last month.  “Things going generic tend to encourage deal-making,”
said Funtleyder, a New York-based money manager and author of
“Health-Care Investing: Profiting From the New World of Pharma,
Biotech and Health Care Services” (2009). “You can never have
enough pipeline.”  There’s no shortage of cheap biotechnology stocks,
according to  Andrew Berens , a senior health-care analyst at
Bloomberg Industries in Skillman,  New Jersey . There are 18
development-stage biotech companies globally trading at or below
two times the value of their cash holdings, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Takeover Targets  In Europe, attractive candidates for takeovers include
Copenhagen-based  Genmab A/S (GEN) , which has a research partnership
with Glaxo and is trading at 1.33 times cash, and Stockholm-
based  Active Biotech AB (ACTI) , for its Anyara and Tasq cancer
treatments, said Peter Welford, an analyst at Jefferies
International Ltd. in London.  Genmab has a market value of 1.57 billion kroner ($271
million), while Active’s value is 1.8 billion kronor ($249
million). Rachel Gravesen, a spokeswoman for Genmab, and Goran Forsberg, chief business officer at Active Biotech, declined to
comment.  Last year companies focused on returning cash to
shareholders. AstraZeneca announced a $5 billion stock buyback,
the London-based company’s biggest ever.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ,
the largest U.K. drugmaker, said it would buy 2.3 billion pounds
($3.5 billion) of shares, its first repurchase since 2008, and
raised its dividend four times. Paris-based Sanofi bought 1.1
billion euros ($1.4 billion) of stock.  Trial Setbacks  Drugmakers stepped up share repurchases as the cost of
developing new medicines rose 21 percent to $1.05 billion from
$830 million a year ago, consulting firm Deloitte LLP said in a
 report  in November. More drugs are failing in development and at
later stages than a year earlier, and the commercial value of
these assets is largely unchanged, Deloitte found, through a
survey of the 12 drugmakers that spend the most on research.  On Dec. 20, AstraZeneca said it was dropping development of
olaparib for ovarian cancer after a disappointing clinical trial
result, and another drug failed in a study. Novartis stopped a
test of its Tekturna heart medicine for safety reasons, while
Sanofi said the experimental multiple sclerosis treatment
Aubagio failed to beat an older therapy at preventing relapses.  The industry needs to improve performance through further
“external innovation,” including early-stage alliances, joint
ventures and risk-sharing partnerships, according to Deloitte.  Shire Plc’s $750 million acquisition of Advanced BioHealing
Inc. was the biggest purchase announced last year by Europe’s
largest drugmakers. Novartis of  Basel ,  Switzerland , agreed to
buy Genoptix Inc. for about $470 million and crosstown rival
 Roche Holding AG (ROG)  bought Anadys Pharmaceuticals Inc. for about
$230 million.  Patent Expirations  In 2010, Sanofi announced the acquisition of Genzyme Corp.,
a $20.1 billion deal that closed last year, and Novartis agreed
to buy the rest of Alcon Inc. for $12.9 billion.  AstraZeneca’s U.S. patents for its second- and third-
biggest-selling drugs, the Seroquel antipsychotic and Nexium for
heartburn, expire in 2012 and 2014, respectively. The company
will face an 8.6 percent drop in sales this year, the biggest
decline among European drugmakers, according to a Bloomberg
Industries analysis.  AstraZeneca is likely to resume acquisitions, spending as
much as $5 billion over the next five years to gain broader
access to low-cost medicines in  emerging markets  outside of
China and  Mexico , said  Gbola Amusa , a London-based analyst at
UBS AG.  “It’s not sustainable to charge higher prices than their
multinational peers, and they charge significantly more than
Glaxo and Sanofi,” he said.  M&A Strategy  AstraZeneca continues to focus on internal and external
innovation through partnering, collaborations and in-licensing,
said Isabelle Jouin, a spokeswoman for AstraZeneca.  “In terms of acquisitions, we’ve said all along that we
are not looking for scale but would consider small, bolt-on
acquisitions so long as there is a good strategic fit,” she
said in a telephone interview.  Competitors are following similar strategies.  Diovan, Novartis’s biggest-selling drug, also may face
generic competition in the U.S. in 2012. The company, which
bought back $5.5 billion of stock last year and raised the
dividend, is open to acquisitions of $2 billion to $3 billion
this year of consumer health or veterinary assets, Chief
Executive Officer Joe Jimenez said this week.  Novartis also would consider generic-drug, biotechnology or
diagnostics purchases, he said last year. The company said today
it will take $1.22 billion of charges to prepare for
generic competition to Diovan and reflect lower sales potential
for its Tekturna medicine.  ‘Land Grab’  Glaxo will stick to a strategy of “bolt-on” deals that
fit with its existing businesses, Chief Financial Officer Simon Dingemans said in an interview this week. Paris-based Sanofi is
planning acquisitions of as much as 2 billion euros this year,
Chief Executive Officer  Chris Viehbacher  said in an interview
this week.  Roche is open to a deal as big as $3 billion that could fit
its focus on medicines sold alongside diagnostic tools, Chief
Executive Officer Severin Schwan said in an interview last
month. The company last year raised its dividend 10 percent.  Anadys, acquired by Roche last year, is developing
medicines to treat hepatitis C. Gilead Sciences Inc. of  Foster
City ,  California , agreed in November to pay $11 billion, at the
highest valuation on record, for Pharmasset Inc., another
developer of hepatitis C drugs. More acquisitions in this
disease area are likely to follow to seize a portion of a market
potentially worth $20 billion by 2020, according to William
Blair & Co.  “It’s a land grab right now,” said Berens of Bloomberg
Industries.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in  London  at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net  