-- Euro Economy’s Crisis Respite Gives ECB Room to Pause Interest-Rate Cuts
-- B y   G a b i   T h e s i n g   a n d   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 2012-01-12T12:20:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/european-economy-s-respite-from-crisis-gives-ecb-room-to-pause-rate-cuts.html
The European economy may be winning
some respite from its sovereign debt crisis.  With the euro area teetering on the brink of a second
recession in three years, data this week showed rebounds in
German exports and French business confidence, suggesting the
slowdown may be limited. The euro’s 10 percent drop against the
dollar since late October and an easing of financial conditions
may also provide support as leaders fight to restore investor
faith in their region’s bond markets.  The signs of resilience hand European Central Bank
President Mario Draghi room to keep the  benchmark interest rate 
at 1 percent today after cutting it twice in the past two months
and flooding the banking system with a record amount of cash.
The pause may be brief if looming budget cuts and a credit
shortage prove too powerful for the economy to withstand.  “The sense that the economy is in freefall is abating but
it’s too early to talk of a turning point,” said  Juergen Michels , chief euro-area economist at Citigroup Inc. in London.
“The picture in the core countries has improved a bit and a
weaker euro will help, but further austerity measures in the
periphery countries will drag on growth, and the specter of a
credit crunch has not been banished.”  Rate Decision  Only six of 53 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey  expect
the ECB’s 23-strong Governing Council to cut its key rate today
to what would be a new record. Officials meeting in  Frankfurt 
will announce their decision at 1:45 p.m. and Draghi will
explain it to reporters 45 minutes later.  The  Bank of England  also refrained from announcing new
stimulus today, maintaining its 275 billion-pound ($421 billion)
bond-purchase target as the U.K. economy showed some signs of
robustness heading into 2012.  “We’ve had a couple of indications that things may not be
as bad in 2012 as people expected them to be,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital Markets who previously
worked at the ECB. “The ECB has factored in this downturn that
we’re seeing, which reflects the view that the recession won’t
be a very deep one.”  German exports rose 2.5 percent in November from October
and business confidence in Europe’s largest economy unexpectedly
advanced for a second month in December. A report last week also
showed that euro-area services and manufacturing output
contracted less than initially estimated last month, led by
 Germany .  In  France , the second-largest economy in the 17-nation euro
region, business sentiment climbed from a two-year low in
December and industrial output increased in November.  German Recession?  The economy is far from out of the woods.  European industrial production declined for a third
straight month in November, the European Union’s statistics
office said today. German gross domestic product probably
dropped 0.25 percent in the fourth quarter of last year from the
third, the Federal Statistics Office said yesterday. Some
economists predict another contraction this quarter, putting
Germany into a technical recession.  Italian unemployment rose to 8.6 percent in November and
 consumer confidence  fell to a 16-year low in December, while
Spanish joblessness rose to a record 22.9 percent in November
and industrial production recorded its biggest drop in two
years. Greece is entering a fifth year of recession.  “The data we’re getting at the moment is mixed,” said
Jens Sondergaard, an economist at Nomura International Plc in
 London . “The ECB wants some time to assess what it has done and
what the effects are.”  Forecast Cut  The central bank last month cut its 2012 growth forecast
for the euro region to 0.3 percent from 1.3 percent.  While the median forecast in a survey of 21 economists is
for the ECB to keep its key rate at 1 percent through mid 2013,
Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Morgan Stanley all expect
the benchmark to be cut to 0.5 percent by the middle of this
year as recession bites.  “Beyond this week’s meeting, it will be a big year for the
ECB,” said Greg Fuzesi, an economist at JPMorgan in London.  Concerned its ability to deliver  price stability  is under
threat, the ECB has cut its key rate twice since Draghi took
office on Nov. 1. It has also bolstered efforts to grease
markets by lending banks an unprecedented 489 billion euros
($620 billion) for three years and making it easier for them to
borrow. It continues to buy the bonds of stressed sovereigns
such as  Italy .  Borrowing Costs  The provision of liquidity may be helping, handing
governments breathing space to restore fiscal order and complete
an overhaul of budget rules. The Bloomberg Euro-Area Financial
Conditions Index has risen to minus 4 percent from a low of
minus 5.4 percent in September.  Borrowing conditions have also eased.  Spain  today sold 10
billion euros of bonds, twice the target for the sale, to yield
3.384 percent. That compared with 5.187 percent the last time
similar maturity debt was sold in December. Italy sold one-year
bills at 2.735 percent, less than half 5.952 percent paid on
similar-maturity securities on Dec. 12.  The economy may also receive a fillip from a weaker euro.  The single currency has fallen almost 5 percent against
nine developed-nation currencies in the past three months,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indices.
ECB research shows a decline in trade-weighted terms of 10
percent adds 0.7 percent to growth in the first year and 1.2
percent in the second.  ‘Happy to Acquiesce’  “The ECB will be happy to acquiesce in an orderly and
contained depreciation of the euro,” said Huw Pill, chief
European economist at Goldman Sachs Group Inc. in London, who
used to work at the ECB.  Stuttgart-based  Daimler AG’s (DAI)  Mercedes-Benz is targeting
higher car deliveries in 2012 after selling a record number of
vehicles last year, Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche said
Jan. 5. Porsche SE anticipates U.S. sales to rise to more than
30,000 cars next year on demand for the revamped 911 sports car.  Risks remain as governments impose a fiscal squeeze that
JPMorgan estimates could reach 2 percent of GDP.  Greece  has yet
to seal a deal with bondholders over a proposed debt write-off
on which fresh aid is contingent, and politicians are still
wrangling over a revamp of budget limits. The ECB may hold back
from providing more aid to keep the pressure on governments to
act, according to Goldman Sachs.  Overnight Deposits  Meanwhile, the ECB’s injections of cash are not finding
their way to companies and households. Banks are instead
hoarding the money and parking it back at the ECB. Overnight
deposits at the central bank jumped to a record 486 billion
euros this week.  Italy needs more help from the ECB to emerge from its
“self fulfilling” liquidity crisis,  David Riley , head of the
sovereign-debt unit at  Fitch Ratings , said today in Paris. The
ratings company said Jan. 10 that it’s likely to make a decision
on credit grades for euro-area nations that are under review by
the end of this month.  “ Europe  is still in dangerous territory,” said  Elga Bartsch , chief European economist at Morgan Stanley, who expects
the ECB to eventually engage in more aggressive asset purchases
known as quantitative easing. “But 2012 should also be the year
in which the economy turns around.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net ;
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  