-- Ex-Congressman Siljander Sentenced for Obstructing Justice
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-12T02:25:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/ex-congressman-siljander-gets-a-year-and-a-day-for-obstructing-justice.html
Mark Deli Siljander, a former U.S.
congressman who in 2010 pleaded guilty to obstructing justice
and acting as an unregistered foreign agent, was sentenced to a
year and a day in prison.  Siljander, 60, a Michigan Republican who served in  Congress 
from 1981 to 1987, was charged as part of a wider criminal case
against members of the Islamic American Relief Agency, which
prosecutors said had ties to the Pakistani Taliban, al-Qaeda and
Osama bin Laden, who was killed by U.S. forces in May.  He was sentenced today by U.S. District Judge Nanette Laughrey in Kansas City,  Missouri . Four members of the now-
defunct Columbia, Missouri-based IARA were also sentenced, U.S.
Attorney Beth Phillips said in a  statement .  After secretly sending more than $1 million to  Iraq  in
violation of U.S. economic sanctions, “IARA then hired a former
congressman to lobby the government on its behalf after it was
listed as a specially designated global terrorist
organization,” the prosecutor said.  The group’s executive director, Mubarak Hamed, and
fundraiser Abdel Azim El-Siddiq in 2004 hired Siljander to lobby
for the group’s removal from a U.S. Senate list of charities
suspected of aiding international terrorism, Phillips said.  Hidden Payment  The men agreed they would hide IARA’s $75,000 payment to
Siljander, a former U.S. ambassador to the  United Nations
General Assembly , by sending it through nonprofit entities.  “In her conscientious sentencing, the court noted that Mr.
Siljander did not aid terrorists or terrorism,” Linda Moreno,
an attorney for the former lawmaker, said in an e-mail. “He has
accepted responsibility for his conduct and expressed a genuine
remorse for his actions and their devastating effect on his
family.”  Hamed was sentenced today to four years and 10 months in
prison. In 2010, he admitted to illegally transferring more than
$1 million to Iraq. El-Siddiq, who confessed to conspiring to
hire Siljander as a lobbyist, got two years’ probation.  “We are pleased that the court recognized Dr. El-Siddiq’s
very minimal role by sentencing him only to probation,” his
attorney, Jean Paul Bradshaw of  Kansas City , said in an e-mail.
“His role was simply to deliver the check to Mr. Siljander to
pay for lobbying services.”  While the lobbying itself was lawful, Siljander’s failure
to register created the infraction, Bradshaw said. Now a partner
in the Kansas City law firm Lathrop & Gage LLP, the attorney
formerly held Phillips’s post as prosecutor.  Curtis Woods, an attorney for Hamed, didn’t immediately
reply to voice-mail and e-mail messages seeking comment after
regular business hours. He’s a partner in the Kansas City office
of Chicago-based SNR Denton US LLP.  The case is U.S. v. Islamic American Relief Agency, 07-
cr-00087, U.S. District Court, Western District of Missouri
(Kansas City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  