-- MF Has Distributed $3.8B to Date: Trustee
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-01-12T23:46:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/mf-global-distributed-3-8-billion-so-far-trustee-says-in-probe-report.html
MF Global Inc. (MF)  has distributed about
$3.8 billion so far and has about $1.5 billion under its
control, while there’s still $1.2 billion missing, according to
the trustee for the failed brokerage.  About 100 customers gathered today at the New York Marriott
Downtown hotel to hear James Giddens, the trustee appointed to
liquidate the brokerage, describe his investigation. A lawyer
for the trustee said the probe has involved imaging more than
800 computer drives and maintaining over 100 terabytes of data,
more information than the  Library of Congress  contains.  “We’re looking at a wide variety of institutions,
individuals, the holding company” and other parties to try to
claw back property for distribution to customers, said the
lawyer, James Kobak.  Giddens said assets are divided into four categories: those
of U.S. commodity customers, those of U.S. security customers,
foreign units and general estate property.  In the largest pool, the trustee has control of about
$1.4 billion and has already distributed $3.8 billion, or 72
percent of what is owed to commodity customers.  For security customers, the trustee has $418 million to
satisfy claims worth an estimated $488 million. In foreign
units, it has $849 million, subject to various disputes. In the
general estate property there is $290 million, which Giddens
said probably isn’t enough to satisfy claims.  Customer Claims  Customers have asserted claims of “several hundred million
dollars” against the brokerage, according to a court filing
today. Giddens is keeping more than $1 billion in reserve as he
analyzes claims to determine which are valid, he said in the
filing.  “The trustee does not know with certainty the extent of
the shortfall,” Giddens said at the meeting, noting that
$1.2 billion remains his best estimate. That sum covers all four
pools.  “It’s clear that under anyone’s estimate, the potential
shortfall is significant and may affect the trustee’s ability to
make a 100 percent distribution,” Giddens said. “I can tell
you we’re distributing as much as we can as soon as we can.”  Giddens said that of the $849 million held in foreign
accounts, it has a dispute with the U.K. unit over $744 million,
and may have a dispute with its Canadian units, MF Global Canada
Co. and MF Global Canada Ltd., over the rest. Only $63 million
of the money is in MF Global Inc.’s hands, and that amount is
subject to a dispute with  JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  & Co., he said.  Jon Corzine   MF Global Holdings Ltd., once run by former New Jersey
Governor and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  co-chairman Jon Corzine,
filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy on Oct. 31 after a
wrong-way $6.3 billion trade on its own behalf on bonds of some
of  Europe ’s most indebted nations. While the parent company is
unwinding in Chapter 11 to repay creditors and lenders such as
JPMorgan Chase, the former operating unit, MF Global Inc., is
being unwound under authority of Giddens.  Giddens has so far repaid former customers through three
bulk distributions, and he said remaining distributions will be
made on an individual basis, according to claims, which need to
be filed before Jan. 31.  Including funds already distributed, Giddens controlled
$4.9 billion in U.S. segregated commodity customer funds,  CME
Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures market and MF Global’s
regulator, has said.  Property Fight  Next will be a fight over what is and what isn’t customer
property, based on transactions that may have commingled
customer with general property, said Richard Epling, a senior
bankruptcy partner at the New York office of Pillsbury Winthrop
Shaw Pittman LLP. Epling, who isn’t involved in the MF Global
case, said it will probably take a long time to determine how
the money from customer accounts was lost because it appears to
have been systemic and involve complex  repurchase agreements .  Eventually, Giddens may sue to claw back money from
counterparties who got it in the days before MF Global’s
bankruptcy, on the ground that the company was already
insolvent, and those parties are likely to say they don’t have
to give it back because it was used to cover margin on a
legitimate trade, Epling said.  Such disputes shouldn’t hold up decisions in the bankruptcy
about what priority creditors and customers have for being
repaid, he said.  ‘What Bucket’  “You can figure out who gets paid out of what bucket of
assets even if you don’t know what’s in what bucket right now,”
Epling said.  Customers and creditors are already arguing over who has
priority to be repaid, even as regulators are investigating.  While the brokerage has been in the hands of regulators for
more than 70 days, parties including the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission haven’t reached conclusions about how the
money that should have been in segregated accounts went missing.
Giddens said the final amount missing could change.  Creditors of MF Global Holdings today objected in court
documents to a motion by some customers of the failed brokerage
unit to use Chapter 7 bankruptcy law for the Chapter 11 case of
the holding company. The reasons for the request are
“immaterial” and can’t be done without converting the case to
a liquidation, creditors said. Under Chapter 11, debtors
reorganize, while under Chapter 7, they liquidate.  Sapere Wealth  Former customer Sapere Wealth Management LLC said changing
the way the case is administered would make commodities
customers a class of creditor, giving them the right to recover
100 percent of whatever customer funds the debtor’s estate
holds.  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission said in a filing
today it isn’t clear “that the court can and should adopt the
approach that Sapere suggests,” as there are other ways to
protect customers’ priority status.  A hearing on the issue is set for Jan. 19, according to
court papers.  Nick Kaltneckar, 68, of  New Jersey , said he came to the
Marriott meeting seeking more transparency.  “No one other than the CME is willing to state that
customer money may not be reimbursed,” Kaltneckar said.  Paul Hamann, 52, of  Chicago , who said he has traded
commodities for 32 years, said he couldn’t understand how he
wasn’t getting repaid considering his statements from MF Global
Inc. had the imprimatur of the Securities Investor Protection
Corp., and his accounts were said to be “customer owned, no
liens.” Hamann said he has only gotten 3 percent of what was in
his accounts back.  SIPC Protection  Christopher LaRosa, a representative of SIPC, confirmed in
the question-and-answer session that the agency, which has a
strict definition of qualifying securities customers, doesn’t
cover losses for investors in commodities.  “Whether or not there should be SIPC protection for
commodities customers is an issue for Congress,” he told
customers.  Company officials including Corzine, Chief Financial
Officer Henri Steenkamp and Chief Operating Officer  Bradley Abelow  have testified to the  U.S. Senate  that they don’t know
where the missing funds are.  Meanwhile, customers and creditors are already filing court
papers debating who is first in line to be repaid, some resting
on theories about how the money went missing.  Repayment Priority  Sapere said it and other commodities customers should get
first priority to be repaid because news coverage and testimony
in Congress indicate funds were transferred from the futures
commission merchant side of its business to the broker-dealer
side, which disbursed the money to cover obligations of the
parent company. That pits commodity customers against security
customers to be repaid, and the conflict should be resolved by
putting commodity customers first, Sapere said.  Sapere said the funds were transferred “in a perhaps-
undocumented or form-over-substance ‘internal repo’ of the
broker-dealer business” as part of the company’s bets on
sovereign debt of European countries.  Louis Freeh , the Chapter 11 trustee overseeing the wind-
down of the parent company, has also argued for priority of
creditors to be repaid, citing intercompany loans made between
the failed parent and the operating unit. Recoveries of money
the parent loaned to the brokerage shouldn’t be “diverted” to
customers, Freeh said in court papers filed Jan. 9.  ’Differences of Opinion’  Giddens said today that there are “differences of
opinion” with Freeh.  “We may have causes of action we may well pursue” against
MF Global Holdings, Giddens said. “We’ve had a difference of
opinion about attorney-client privilege; we’ve waived the
privilege though he has not.”  Perrin, Holden & Davenport Capital Corp., the brokerage
that agreed to buy almost all of the company’s securities
accounts in late November, said that the transfer is still only
half complete. A spokesman for Giddens said Jan. 10 that the
other accounts will be transferred in the next few weeks and
that the transfer of 318 accounts was still only half complete
due to “complexity” in the process.  MF Global Holdings’ U.K. customers have also been asking
why it’s taking so long for them to be repaid. At a London
creditors’ meeting this week, they demanded their money back as
administrators KPMG LLP said they racked up 17.5 million pounds
($27 million) in fees since the broker’s collapse without
returning anything to clients.  U.K. Law  While segregated customer funds are held separately and not
supposed to be used by financial firms, unsegregated accounts
have no special protection under U.K. law and no priority over
other unsecured creditor claims, KPMG partner Richard Heis said
at the meeting. He wouldn’t confirm exactly how much was in the
unsegregated accounts but said it was more than 1 billion
pounds.  The parent company’s Oct. 31 bankruptcy filing listed
assets of $41 billion and debt of $39.7 billion. Corzine quit as
MF Global’s CEO on Nov. 4.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of  New York  ( Manhattan ). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  