-- Falwell’s Liberty University Doubles Debt Selling $100 Million to Expand
-- B y   M i c h a e l   M c D o n a l d
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/falwell-s-liberty-university-doubles-debt-selling-100-million-to-expand.html
Liberty University, started in 1971
by the Reverend Jerry Falwell Sr., borrowed $100 million for an
expansion of its Lynchburg, Virginia, campus, almost doubling
its long-term debt.  The university, which has grown into one of the largest
private colleges in the U.S. by increasing online enrollment,
will use the money to help finance $225.2 million of capital
projects planned around the campus in the next five years,
according to sale documents. Work will include a library named
for its founder, a baseball stadium and a school of health
sciences, according to the documents distributed to investors.  Falwell was a Baptist minister who used television
broadcasts to bring his message to millions. He started the
Moral Majority in 1979 to help get the religious right more
politically involved and send  Ronald Reagan  to the White House.
After the evangelical minister died in 2007, his son, Jerry L.
Falwell Jr., became chancellor and president of the school.  “The vision for the university in the early years was to
be for conservative evangelical students what  Notre Dame  is for
Catholics and  Brigham Young  is for Mormons,” Falwell said
yesterday by telephone.  “A lot of people back then said it couldn’t be done but he
was just determined to make that happen,” Falwell said,
referring to his father’s early work to build the institution.
“I wouldn’t say we’re equal to Notre Dame yet, but we’re
close.”  Tax-Exemption Challenges  The university, which offers tenure only to its law
faculty, has faced challenges to its tax-exempt status because
of the “distinct political interests and religious activities
of the campus community,” Moody’s Investors Service said in a
Jan. 9 report. The company rates the school’s credit A1, its
fifth-highest grade.  Enrollment has more than doubled from fiscal 2007 to last
year, reaching almost 77,800 students, driven largely by a more-
than threefold gain in online enrollment, to about 64,900, bond
documents show. The school will have about $228 million of debt
after the sale of the taxable bonds today.  The callable debt, which pays a coupon rate of 5.1 percent
and matures in March 2042, was priced to yield 215 basis points
more than  Treasury securities  maturing in August 2041, or about
5.09 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point. Taxable 30-year AAA rated
municipal bonds were  yielding  about 5.9 percent yesterday, the
data show.  “The university’s strongly religious character is both a
strength and a challenge,” Karen Kedem, a Moody’s analyst, said
in the report. While it attracts “a growing portion of those
students seeking this type of experience,” it has limited
appeal to the broader population, Kedem said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael McDonald in  Boston  at 
 mmcdonald10@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  