-- Fast Retailing Cuts Forecasts After Long Summer Hurt Winter Clothing Sales
-- B y   C h e n g   H e r n g   S h i n n   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-01-12T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/fast-retailing-cuts-annual-profit-forecast.html
Fast Retailing Co. (9983) ,  Asia ’s biggest
clothing retailer, lowered its  forecasts  for annual sales and
profit after a longer-than-expected summer damped demand for its
Uniqlo brand winter clothing.  Net income  will probably be 70 billion yen ($910 million)
in the year ending Aug. 31, compared with a previous estimate of
71 billion yen a year earlier, the Yamaguchi, Japan-based
company said in a statement yesterday. It forecast sales of 937
billion yen, down from a previous target of 965 billion yen.  The casual clothing retailer had faster sales growth in the
most recent quarter than global rivals  Gap Inc. (GPS) ,  Inditex SA (ITX)  and
 Hennes & Mauritz AB (HMB)  as its strategy of opening more stores
outside Japan helped offset sluggish demand at home. Fast
Retailing’s overseas  sales  jumped 59 percent in the quarter, led
by  China  and  South Korea .  “I don’t think the market expected the company to slash
their full-year forecast as their sales in December and January
were really good,” Dairo Murata, a Tokyo-based analyst for
JPMorgan Chase & Co., said by phone yesterday. Fast Retailing’s
profit will  probably  drop 9 percent this year, he said.  Fast Retailing is “doing really well” in Asia outside of
Japan, Group Executive Vice-President Nobuo Domae told reporters
yesterday in Tokyo at a briefing to discuss earnings. “Asia
will be the next growth pillar for us.”  Cotton, China Labor  Fast Retailing fell 0.5 percent to 14,520 yen at the 3 p.m.
close in Tokyo yesterday, before the forecast and results were
announced. The  stock  has gained 18 percent in the past 12
months, compared with a 22 percent slide for the broader Topix
index.  Higher prices for materials including cotton and an
increase in China labor costs also narrowed margins in the first
quarter, according to the statement.  Operating profit dropped 2.8 percent to 48.4 billion yen in
the three months ended Nov. 30, according to the statement.
Sales gained 8.6 percent to 272.7 billion yen.  Sales at  Inditex (ITX) , operator of the Zara casual clothing
chain, rose 4.8 percent in the three months ended Oct. 31, while
 Hennes & Mauritz  reported an 0.1 percent gain in its most recent
quarter, and Gap had a 1.9 percent decline.  Fast Retailing’s biggest  shareholder , with a 22 percent
stake, is Chief Executive Officer  Tadashi Yanai , 62, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The billionaire turned his
father’s tailoring business into a company with a market value
of more than 1.5 trillion yen, making him Japan’s second-richest
person.  The stock is the biggest gainer on the  Nikkei 225 Stock
Average  in the past five years, climbing 51 percent. The
benchmark has lost 51 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheng Herng Shinn in  Tokyo  at 
 hcheng52@bloomberg.net ;
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Wong at 
 swong139@bloomberg.net  