-- Fed Detection of Housing Weakness in August 2006 Triggered Rate-Rise Pause
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   V i v i e n   L o u   C h e n
-- 2012-01-12T19:17:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/fed-detection-of-housing-weakness-in-august-2006-triggered-rate-rise-pause.html
Federal Reserve officials detected
growing weakness in the U.S. housing market in August 2006,
deciding to pause after a two-year campaign raising the
benchmark interest rate.  “After 17 consecutive moves, we would be tightening into a
housing decline,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  warned the
 Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR)  on Aug. 8, 2006, according to
transcripts of that year’s meeting released in  Washington  today.
“I remind you that the Fed has not been terribly successful
with soft landings. We have a chance to get one.”  The transcripts detail conversations among Fed officials
through the year about housing and credit risk building in the
financial system. Fed officials at the time were worried about
their credibility to meet both aspects of their congressional
mandate to achieve stable prices and full employment.  “I don’t think they ever adequately, realistically dealt
with the housing situation,” said Gerald O’Driscoll, a former
vice president for the Federal Reserve Bank of  Dallas  who is now
a senior fellow at the  Cato Institute  in Washington. “They kept
denying it was a bubble and were not prepared for what
happened.”  In just two years, the FOMC pushed the federal funds rate
from 1 percent to 5.25 percent in a series of quarter-point
moves as the economy barreled into its fifth year of expansion,
driving down unemployment to an average rate of 4.6 percent that
year.  ‘Inflation Nutter’  “I am concerned about the effect on the markets of
perceiving the Fed as too aggressive,” Bernanke said at the
June meeting. “There is a new chairman. They don’t know me. As
far as they know, I am an inflation nutter, and I want to make
sure that they understand that output is one of our concerns.”  Amid the boom, the U.S. grappled with near-record gasoline
prices, and policy makers regarded the threat of persistent high
inflation as their “predominant risk,” according to  Timothy F. Geithner , who was then president of the New York Fed and is
Treasury Secretary.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  cast the first
dissenting monetary policy vote of Bernanke’s chairmanship
during the August meeting in favor of higher  interest rates , and
he continued to dissent at subsequent 2006 meetings.  “The first-order policy problem for us today is to
influence the evolution of the public’s beliefs in a way that
helps bring inflation down more rapidly,” said Lacker who is a
voting member of the FOMC this year. “The risk that the housing
contraction will have broader multiplier effects on personal
consumption and other sectors is still relatively small.”  Price Decline  In 2006, U.S. house prices began to decline after four
years of double-digit gains from 2002 to 2005.  Home prices  fell
0.28 percent in 2006, according to the S&P/Case-Shiller index of
property values, a portent of the 8.4 percent slide in 2007 and
the 18.4 drop in 2008 that would lead the  U.S. economy  into the
worst recession since the Great Depression.  By October, policy makers had concluded “spillovers from
housing to the rest of the economy had not yet occurred” and
that “the upside risks to inflation exceed the downside risks
to growth,” according to Bernanke’s summary of the meeting.  U.S. central bankers left the benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 5.25 percent for the remainder of 2006 following
their August pause.  ‘Soft Landing’  At the Dec. 12 meeting, Bernanke said he thought “a soft
landing with growth a bit below potential in the short run looks
like the most likely scenario.” The  National Bureau of Economic
Research  says the 18-month recession began in December 2007.  During the same meeting, former Fed Governor Susan Bies
sounded alarms about risks in the so-called shadow banking
system, where non-bank financial institutions provide credit
outside the scope of bank supervision.  “A lot of the private mortgages that have been securitized
during the past few years really do have much more risk than the
investors have been focusing on,” Bies said.  “As more products are generated outside the banking
sector, they get funneled to pools through broker-dealers as
opposed to the banks,” she said. “I think that we’re missing a
level of due diligence regarding brokers.”  The central bank releases the records after a five-year
lag.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Torres at   ctorres3@bloomberg.net  and
Vivien Lou Chen in  San Francisco  at 
 vchen1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  