-- Bill Gross Called an ‘Oddball,’in Fed Transcript
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-13T04:30:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/fed-s-fisher-called-gross-an-oddball-in-2006-asked-for-transcript-edit.html
Richard Fisher , a Federal Reserve
official, called billionaire investor  Bill Gross  an “oddball”
at a 2006 meeting -- then asked to have the remark withheld from
a transcript that was released today by the Fed.  “I’ve known Gross for 20 years, and I know he’s an
oddball,” Fisher, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas, said at the Oct. 24-25, 2006 meeting. “Actually, I’d
like that word struck from the record.”  Fisher was worried that investors weren’t taking the
central bank’s inflation-fighting resolve seriously. One example
of his concern, expressed at the  Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR) 
meeting, was a comment by Gross that inflation was “leveling
off at admittedly unacceptable levels.” Gross runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co.  Gross predicted in his September 2006 “Investment
Outlook” report that the Fed had finished raising  interest
rates  and would have to start cutting them again “at some
point” in 2007.  In comments e-mailed today by a spokesman, Gross said “I’m
sure he was joking” and noted that Fisher’s brother Mike was
Pimco’s first president in 1972. “If he’s anything like Mike,
he’s a fine man with a great sense of humor,” Gross said.  Fisher cited the report to back up his argument that the
Fed needed to “issue a statement that makes it clear that we’re
mindful of and remain vigilant about inflationary risk.”  Housing Weakness  The Fed had halted a two-year campaign of raising interest
rates in August 2006 after detecting growing weakness in the
housing market. The U.S. central bank would lower its benchmark
rate by half-a-percentage point to 4.75 percent in September
2007.  “We have to be very mindful, Mr. Chairman, about
perception if we’re to influence what really counts, which is
inflationary expectations,” Fisher said, addressing  Ben S. Bernanke , the Fed chairman. “One need look no further than this
morning’s Financial Times editorial or Bill Gross’s recent
client letter.”  Michael Moskow, who was president of the Chicago Fed at the
time, asked Fisher what word he would like to substitute for
“oddball” in the transcript.  ‘Extremely Vigilant’  “He’s increasingly addled, but his words do carry
weight,” Fisher replied. “The transcripts of these meetings
will be released as we approach the centennial, and I think we
have to make very clear that this FOMC, like previous ones, is
extremely vigilant with regard to the greatest threat to our
society, which is inflation -- at least to our economic
society.”  James Hoard, a spokesman for the  Dallas  Fed, declined to
comment.  Gross, who correctly predicted  home prices  would decline,
is known for his colorful monthly investment outlook pieces. In
June 2007, Gross said that Moody’s Investors Service and
 Standard & Poor’s  were duped by the make-up and “six-inch
hooker heels” of collateralized debt obligations they gave
investment-grade ratings, and that investors stood to lose all
their money.  Gross is a yoga enthusiast who has credited his meditation
sessions with clearing his head and helping him absorb
unexpected news, such as a Fed half-point interest rate cut in
January 2001. The news caught him in the middle of a “sun
salutation,” which softened the blow, he said at the time.  Fisher is also known for being outspoken. He’s called the
nation’s budget shortfalls a “fiscal sinkhole,” and said the
U.S. has suffered from “Lindsay Lohan Congresses” because
lawmakers have been addicted to debt and spending.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  