-- Fed Officials Divided Over Easing as They Prepare Interest Rate Forecasts
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/fed-officials-split-over-easing-as-they-prepare-interest-rate-forecasts.html
Federal Reserve officials disagreed
on the need for more easing amid signs of improvement in the
economy that may shape the  interest-rate  forecasts they will
reveal for the first time this month.  Chicago Fed President  Charles Evans  in a speech yesterday
said economic growth is modest and called for “substantial”
accommodation. During the past week,  New York  Fed President
William Dudley, Boston’s  Eric Rosengren  and San Francisco’s  John
Williams  have also backed consideration of a third round of bond
buying.  The calls preceded release of the Fed’s Beige Book report
on regional economies, which indicated the expansion improved
last month in most of the U.S. on increased holiday retail
sales, demand for services and oil and gas extraction. Other
data in the past week showed the unemployment rate dropped to
the lowest level in nearly three years and  consumer credit 
jumped.  “Despite recent signs of improvement, Fed officials are
very vigilant about the economic recovery continuing and
improving,” said Sung Won Sohn, former chief economist at  Wells
Fargo & Co . who is now a professor at California State
University-Channel Islands in Camarillo. “Fed officials not
only want to see improvement, but levels of economic activity
far higher than they are today.”  Still, central bank officials are far from unanimous on the
need to consider a third round of large-scale asset purchases to
boost growth.  Watching Inflation  Philadelphia Fed President  Charles Plosser  said yesterday
that policy makers should watch “very carefully” for the risks
of accelerating inflation, and Kansas City’s Esther George said
Jan. 10 that too much accommodation can raise the odds of
financial instability. Richmond’s  Jeffrey Lacker  said he is
“nervous” about the Fed’s independence because of its forays
into fiscal policy.  At the next Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Jan.
24-25, the Fed’s 12 presidents and five governors will, for the
first time, publish their own expectations for the future course
of monetary policy.  “They’ve already committed to an increased communications
policy -- including, for the first time, sharing fed funds rate
projections -- and that will be the most meaningful outcome of
the meeting,” said  Jim McDonald , chief investment strategist
for Northern Trust Corp. in  Chicago , which has $645 billion in
assets under management. “I just don’t see enough evidence of
an economic slowdown for them to have support to implement
additional easing.”  Near Zero  Fed officials lowered their benchmark interest rate to near
zero in December 2008 and at their most recent meeting said they
expect to leave it there through at least mid-2013. The Fed also
purchased $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of large-
scale asset purchases, or quantitative easing. In September, the
Fed announced it would replace $400 billion of short-term bonds
with $400 billion of longer-term bonds, a move known as
Operation Twist.  The Beige Book, an anecdotal survey of economic conditions
in the central bank’s regions, said most industries saw
“limited permanent hiring,” and the housing market remained
“sluggish.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  rose less than 0.1 percent
to 1,292.48, the highest level in five months, at the close of
trading in New York yesterday. The yield on the 10-year Treasury
note declined six basis points to 1.90 percent. A basis point is
0.01 percentage point.  Employment Forecasts  At its next policy meeting, Fed officials will also provide
their forecasts for unemployment, growth and inflation for the
first time since November.  The Chicago Fed’s Evans said he supported more Fed action
because his forecast for inflation is at the “lower end” of
his colleagues’ expectations.  “The traditional course of action when inflation is below
target and real output is expected to be below potential is to
run an accommodative monetary policy,” Evans said in a speech
in  Lake Forest , Illinois.  Evans, Plosser, Dallas Fed President Richard Fisher and
Narayana Kocherlakota of the Minneapolis Fed leave the committee
this year after a rotation among Fed presidents. Replacing them
are Williams, Lacker, Atlanta’s  Dennis Lockhart 
and Cleveland’s  Sandra Pianalto .  Of the new voting members, Williams said Jan. 10 that he
sees a “strong” case for new purchases of mortgage bonds given
his expectation that inflation will fall below 1.5 percent this
year.  ‘Slow Progress’  In a speech yesterday in Atlanta, Lockhart repeated Jan. 9
remarks in which he didn’t want to “lock into a rigid
position” on additional easing, given inflation near 2 percent
and “slow progress” reducing joblessness. The  unemployment
rate  fell to 8.5 percent in December, down from a peak of 10
percent in October 2009.  Cleveland Fed President Sandra Pianalto said Jan. 10 that,
according to some economic models, further action may be needed.  “While it is true that the federal funds rate has been
near zero for some time, some economic policy models indicate
that monetary policy should be even more accommodative than it
is today,” Pianalto said in a speech in Wooster, Ohio.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  