-- Fed’s Opening Up Was Aimed at More Effective Policy, 2006 Transcripts Show
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-12T22:16:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/fed-s-opening-up-was-aimed-at-more-effective-policy-2006-transcripts-show.html
Federal Reserve  officials in 2006
began their current opening up to greater scrutiny with warnings
that their goal was to make policy more effective rather than
make the Fed transparent to the public.  “We need to keep in mind that communication is not an end
in and of itself,” then-vice chairman  Donald Kohn  said in an
August 2006 Fed meeting, according to transcripts released
today. “It’s a means to an end. Where we rank on some
professor’s table of transparency isn’t really what it’s
about.”  The  Federal Open Market Committee  in 2006 debated providing
more forecasts, adopting an explicit target for the inflation
rate and releasing officials’ expectations for the path of
 interest rates , a step to be taken for the first time on Jan.
25. Released with a five year lag, meeting transcripts open a
window into the opinions of the central bank’s inner circle,
including Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen .  “We should not put in our list of goals that our objective
is to maximize transparency for the sake of greater
transparency,” said Yellen, then president of the San Francisco
Fed.  “The research in this area provides very ambiguous advice
about how much transparency is optimal,” said Yellen, who is
currently chairing the Fed’s subcommittee on communications.  The meetings show Bernanke -- who replaced  Alan Greenspan 
as leader of the central bank in the March 2006 meeting --
expressing concern about whether he was perceived as too
vigilant on inflation early in his tenure.  ‘Too Aggressive’  “I am concerned about the effect on the markets of
perceiving the Fed as too aggressive,” Bernanke said. “There
is a new Chairman. They don’t know me. As far as they know, I am
an inflation nutter, and I want to make sure that they
understand that output is one of our concerns.”  The transcripts show current members of the Fed uncertain
about the appropriate level of transparency, with Dallas Fed
President  Richard Fisher  saying, “there are some who would like
to provide what I call a full frontal view of what we look like
and what we discussed. But as I like to say, Mr. Chairman, in
romancing the market sometimes a little modesty might be more
effective in achieving the ultimate goal.”  Kohn said today in an e-mail, “I still think transparency
is a means to an end.”  ‘Fuller Understanding’  “That end is fuller understanding of the objectives,
strategies and expectations of the Federal Reserve so as to
enhance the ability of the private sector to make informed
decisions, which should enhance the effectiveness of monetary
policy and enhance the ability of the electorate and their
elected representatives to oversee the conduct of policy,” he
said.  “However, some types of transparency can have the
potential to reduce the effectiveness of policy and make policy
making more difficult,” Kohn said.  The transcripts also reveal how the views of Fed officials
evolve over time. In the August 2006 discussion Bernanke said,
“in general we don’t want to provide the future funds rate
path. I see a lot of problems with that.”  After its Jan. 24-25 meeting, the Fed will do exactly that
by publishing its own forecasts for policy.  The FOMC has taken gradual strides toward expanding its
communications under Bernanke’s tenure. The committee now
publishes policy makers’ forecasts four times a year, up from
two during the Greenspan era. Last year the central bank
announced that Bernanke would hold four press conferences a
year, scheduled to follow the central bank’s two-day meetings.  New Data  In November the committee released new data that reveals
its changing views about risk and uncertainty. In December, the
 Federal Reserve Bank of New York  made public a survey on
monetary policy, financial markets and the economy conducted
with the 21 government-bond firms that trade directly with the
central bank.  St. Louis Fed President James Bullard said in an interview
with Bloomberg Radio earlier this month that the central bank is
also “very close to having inflation targeting in the U.S.”  Adopting an inflation target was the subject of a lengthy
discussion at the end of the Fed’s Oct. 24-25, 2006 meeting. Fed
officials discussed the need to find consensus around a
particular inflation index and a particular numerical goal, and
also debated whether the move would unnecessarily restrict the
FOMC’s flexibility.  ‘Significant’ Benefit  “Remember, this debate is about communication,” Bernanke
said. “I think it’s very important that we communicate better.
While our policy has been good, we have had difficulties -- I
certainly have -- in communicating with the public and the
markets. If we can find a more effective, clearer way to do
that, I think the benefit would be significant.”  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  argued that the
central bank owed the public a clear statement of its inflation
goals.  “Whenever I encounter one of those software programs for
calculating your retirement income and they ask for a lot of
assumptions -- such as your age, your salary, your age at
retirement, and how fast your wages will go up, and all -- and
they get to a box where they ask what the inflation rate is
going to be, I think to myself, I don’t know what to put in
there,” Lacker said.  “It’s a real tragedy that we don’t have anything to tell
the country for circumstances like that,” he said.  Further discussion of inflation targeting was deferred to
2007 and the committee ultimately decided not to adopt such a
target that year. The transcripts from the 2007 meetings will be
released in 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net . 