-- Why Zombie Banks Hate to Write Off Bad Loans: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-01-12T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/financial-frankness-is-a-bad-dream-for-a-bank-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
There’s a simple explanation for why
the world’s zombie banks remain so reluctant to write off
worthless assets and tap the equity markets for fresh capital.
They don’t want to end up like  UniCredit SpA. (UCG)   This month has been a nightmare for the Italian bank’s
shareholders. Since embarking last week on a 7.5 billion euro
($9.7 billion) stock sale at a steep discount to its Jan. 3
closing price, UniCredit shares have fallen 39 percent to 2.56
euros. It seems no good deed goes unpunished when it comes to
lenders besieged by  Europe ’s debt crisis. A little bit of candor
about the true state of a company’s finances can hurt a lot.  That undoubtedly is the message some other lenders facing
large capital shortfalls will take from UniCredit’s troubles.
The incentive now, just as most banks are undergoing their year-
end audits, will be to stick with the pretense that all is well
and there’s no need to raise additional capital.  Not that a lot of them have better options. There’s only so
much private-sector capital available to go around. As sickening
as the plunge in its share price may be, UniCredit secured an
early-mover advantage by acting when it did. Even that might not
be enough to ensure its survival without a taxpayer rescue.  This month’s offering was spurred in part by UniCredit’s
decision in November to take large writedowns for the third
quarter, resulting in a 10.6 billion euro loss, mostly for
intangible assets such as goodwill leftover from ill-fated
acquisitions. The loss was the largest disclosed for the period
by a euro-area bank. The European Banking Authority also weighed
in last month after its latest stress tests, saying UniCredit
had almost an 8 billion euro capital shortfall.  Frightfully Low  The markets sense, with good reason, that the latest cash
infusion won’t be enough. UniCredit’s stock market value stands
at 14.8 billion euros, taking into account this month’s rights
offering. That’s frightfully low, considering the company showed
52.3 billion euros of  common shareholder equity  and 950 billion
euros of assets as of Sept. 30.  Investors still see a huge hole in the company’s books that
UniCredit executives have yet to admit. Had UniCredit taken
swift action sooner to mop up and replenish its balance sheet,
it might not be in the precarious position it is today.  This is one of the lessons everyone should have learned
from the collapses of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,  Fannie Mae 
and  Freddie Mac  in 2008: Come clean about your losses to
preserve the markets’ trust, and raise more capital than you
think you will ever need to get through a crisis while you can,
because you might not get another chance. UniCredit seems to be
coming a tiny bit clean, and raising a smidgeon of the money it
needs. At least it’s doing something, though.  Elsewhere in Europe this generally isn’t the case. On
average the 31 companies in the  Euro Stoxx Banks Index (SX7E)  trade for
39 percent of common equity, or book value, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  France ’s  Credit Agricole SA (ACA)  trades for 23
percent of book. Yet  somehow  the European Banking Authority last
month concluded it had no capital shortfall.  The situation in the U.S. is better, but not good.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , for example, trades for 33 percent of book and
insists it doesn’t need to sell new common shares, in spite of
the markets’ contrary verdict. If Europe’s banks get shut out of
the equity markets, leading the worst-off to seek government
rescues, any window that remains open for U.S. financial
institutions could close quickly, if it hasn’t already.  A telling example is  Regions Financial Corp. (RF) , which has
about $130 billion of assets and still hasn’t repaid its $3.5
billion of bailout money from the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
The Birmingham, Alabama-based bank pulled out all the stops in
the third quarter to sidestep losses on its intangibles, as the
research service  FootnotedPro  highlighted in a Nov. 4 report to
its customers.  Avoiding the Problem  To help avoid writing down goodwill, Regions raised its
estimate of the  control premium  an investor would pay to buy its
commercial-banking unit, to 60 percent from 30 percent, even
though Regions’ stock market value fell by almost half during
the third quarter. (A control premium is the amount a buyer is
willing to pay over current market value to purchase a company.)
Basically, Regions was saying it disagreed with the market,
which naturally made the company more valuable in management’s
eyes.  Today Regions has a $6 billion market capitalization,
slightly more than its $5.6 billion of  goodwill , and trades for
44 percent of book. So the goodwill supposedly was worth almost
as much as Regions itself, which makes little sense because
goodwill isn’t salable.  Yesterday after the markets closed, Regions said it would
take a $673 million fourth-quarter charge to earnings, mostly
due to elimination of goodwill, after agreeing to sell its
Morgan Keegan investment-banking unit to  Raymond James Financial
Inc. (RJF)  for $930 million. You have to wonder if Regions should
have known a lot sooner that the business wasn't worth as much
as its balance sheet said.   UniCredit was willing to take something of a hit to the
intangibles on its books and use the chance to raise cash in
hopes of saving the company. It’s doing the right thing,
relatively speaking, and its stock is down 74 percent in the
past year. Regions did the three-card monte, and its  shares  are
down just 34 percent during the same period.  Other struggling lenders in Europe and the U.S. will see
both examples as more reason to paper over their losses, which
will make their problems and the eventual cleanup worse. Delay-
and-pray is never a good strategy. Unfortunately it’s the only
one a lot of zombie banks have left.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in  New York  at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 