-- Jobless Claims in U.S. Rose More Than Forecast
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-01-12T13:49:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/first-time-jobless-claims-in-u-s-increased-more-than-forecast-last-week.html
More Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week, raising the
possibility that a greater-than-usual increase in temporary
holiday hiring boosted December payrolls.  Jobless  claims  climbed by 24,000 to 399,000 in the week
ended Jan. 7, Labor Department figures showed today in
Washington. The  median  forecast of 46 economists in a Bloomberg
News survey projected 375,000. The number of people on
unemployment benefit rolls rose, while those receiving extended
payments decreased.  Hiring by package delivery companies and retailers during
the holidays to meet demand for gifts may now be giving way to
an increase in dismissals. At the same time, claims figures are
subject to greater volatility during this time of year, as the
government has trouble adjusting the data for the seasonal
swings in employment.  “There is usually a surge in seasonal layoffs at this
time, and that is what’s happening here,” said  Jonathan Basile ,
a senior economist at Credit Suisse in New York, who projected
claims would jump to 405,000. “Claims have shown an improving
trend. It’s a vote of confidence for continued improvement in
the labor market.”  Retail sales in December rose less than forecast,
restrained by cheaper fuel prices and holiday discounting that
helped hold down the value of goods purchased, figures from the
Commerce Department also showed today. The 0.1 percent gain
followed a 0.4 percent advance in November that was more than
initially reported.  Shares Trim Gains  Stock-index futures trimmed earlier gains after the
reports. The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
maturing in March climbed 0.1 percent to 1,289.6 at 8:48 a.m. in
 New York . It had been up as much as 0.7 percent earlier.  Jobless claims were projected to increase from 372,000
initially reported for the prior week, according to the
Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from 352,000 to 405,000. The
Labor Department revised the previous week’s figure up to
375,000.  A Labor Department spokesman said there was nothing unusual
in the data and no states or territories were estimated. The
seasonal-adjustment projected a 12 percent increase in claims
during the first week of January. Instead, unadjusted
applications climbed by 19 percent, he said.  Seasonal Volatility  The week-to-week changes in claims may differ from
economists’ forecasts as adjusting the data for seasonal
variations is difficult around this time of the year, said
 Joshua Shapiro , chief U.S. economist at Maria Fiorini Ramirez
Inc. in New York.  “Seasonal volatility injects considerable uncertainty into
projections of these data for another couple of weeks,” Shapiro
said in a note this month.  The four-week moving average, a less volatile measure than
the weekly figures, increased to 381,750 last week from 374,000.  The number of people continuing to receive jobless benefits
rose by 19,000 in the week ended Dec. 31 to 3.63 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
48,500 to 3.45 million in the week ended Dec. 24.  Employers trying to trim costs include Archer Daniels
Midland Co. The world’s largest grain processor plans to cut
about 1,000 jobs, or 3 percent of its workforce, in part by
offering voluntary retirement incentives and severance.  Cutting Jobs  “These actions will help us enhance our productivity and
earnings power,” Patricia Woertz, chief executive officer of
Decatur, Illinois-based ADM, said in a statement yesterday.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, held at to 2.9 percent,
today’s report showed.  Twenty-six states and territories reported an increase in
claims, while 27 reported a decrease. These data are reported
with a one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly non-farm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Payrolls climbed by 200,000 workers in December after
rising by 100,000 the prior month, and the jobless rate fell to
8.5 percent, the lowest level in almost three years, Labor
Department figures showed on Jan. 6.  Seasonal Employment  About 40,000 of the increase in December payrolls
represented a jump in hiring at courier and messenger services
like FedEx Corp.  Employers created 1.64 million jobs in 2011, the best year
for the American worker since 2006. Even with the gains, much
needs to be done toward recovering the 8.75 million jobs lost as
a result of the recession that ended in June 2009.  The economy “expanded at a modest to moderate pace” from
late November through the end of December, while most industries
saw “limited permanent hiring,” the  Federal Reserve  said in
its Beige Book anecdotal business survey released yesterday.
“The combination of limited permanent hiring in most sectors
and numerous active job seekers has continued to keep a lid on
general wage increases.”  Fed policy makers next meet on Jan. 24-25.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  