-- Ford Pursues Blast-Proof Vehicles Contracts
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n   a n d   B r e n d a n   M c G a r r y
-- 2012-01-12T05:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/ford-takes-on-lockheed-for-54b-in-blast-proof-vehicles.html
Ford Motor Co. (F)  is leading a push by
commercial-truck makers to challenge defense contractors for a
potential $54 billion in work replacing U.S. military Humvees
with blast-proof all-terrain vehicles.  The Army and Marine Corps plan to open competition Jan. 20
in the second development phase for their Joint Light Tactical
Vehicle. Truck manufacturers Ford,  Navistar International Corp. (NAV) 
and  Oshkosh Corp. (OSK)  may take on teams led by defense companies
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and  BAE Systems
Plc (BAESY)  that won the three first-stage contracts.  Congress added language to this year’s defense spending
bill prodding the military to embrace “off-the-shelf technology
demonstrated by industry” to develop vehicles that can better
protect troops from improvised explosive devices. Ford has met
with aides on  Capitol Hill  and Pentagon officials to pitch its
case for building the battle-ready trucks and bypassing the
usual acquisition process.  The effort by Ford, the second-biggest U.S. automaker, “is
a very intriguing strategic move,”  Brian Johnson , an auto
industry analyst for Barclays Capital Inc. in  Chicago , said in
an interview. “The benefits are finding an additional market
for your most profitable vehicles, such as large pickup trucks,
especially at a time when the retail demand is at the mercy of
gas prices.”  The pressure to use commercially available parts or
prototypes may be a harbinger for ground programs that survive
planned defense spending cuts of at least $490 billion during
the next decade as the Obama administration places added
emphasis on air and sea power in the Pacific.  55,500 Vehicles  Defense contractors counter that effective troop protection
can’t be bolted on to a commercial truck design.  “We don’t believe that there is an off-the-shelf
commercial vehicle today that will fulfill the requirements of
the JLTV program,” Kathryn Hasse, a program director for
Lockheed, said in an interview. “It’d be nice to use a
commercial chassis to do it. The reality is, it’s just not
rugged enough.”  Lockheed’s design incorporates off-the-shelf equipment
where appropriate, including a diesel engine by  Cummins Inc. (CMI)  and
a transmission by  Allison Transmission Inc. (ALSN) , she said.  The Army and Marine Corps together plan to buy about 55,500
new vehicles to replace some of about 175,000 High Mobility
Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicles built by AM General LLC. The
Humvees proved to be vulnerable to inexpensive improvised
explosives in Iraq and Afghanistan.  In a presentation circulated in November on Capitol Hill, a
team led by Ford proposed bearing the full cost of about $400
million to build production-ready prototypes without the
government funding normally awarded during the development
process. It said its vehicle would provide better protection to
troops at a lower price and weight than competitors.  Lockheed’s Design  Almost two-thirds of all U.S. casualties in  Iraq  and
Afghanistan were caused by bombs and explosive devices,
including more than 3,000 troops killed and more than 31,000
injured, according to Pentagon statistics through Jan. 3. Many
of the incidents involved attacks against vehicles.  “We’re coming back mangled and just beat up, missing
limbs, and we need the right tools, the right vehicles, out
there for it,” said Octavio Sanchez, who as a Marine staff
sergeant was critically injured in Ramadi, Iraq, in 2005 when
the Humvee he was riding in struck a roadside bomb.  Sanchez, who lost his right hand and part of his left and
suffered third-degree burns to 67 percent of his body, now works
for Hardwire LLC, the maker of a “blast chimney” that channels
the force of explosives to better protect Humvee occupants.  Less Weight  The Pentagon spent more than $44 billion to build heavier
trucks known as mine-resistant ambush protected vehicles, or
MRAPs, to better protect troops from roadside blasts in Iraq and
Afghanistan.  The new light truck is intended to weigh about 20,000
pounds (9,072 kilograms) fully loaded and offer protection
comparable to that of the MRAP, which can weigh 30,000 to 50,000
pounds, too heavy for many roads and bridges in Afghanistan, or
to travel off-road. Empty, the new vehicle would be light enough
to be carried by CH-47 Chinook and CH-53 Super Stallion
helicopters and on ship decks.  The Senate Appropriations Committee in September sought to
cancel the program, citing “excessive cost growth.” The
services worked together to simplify the design to a single base
model; lower the targeted manufacturing cost to $230,000 to
$270,000 per vehicle, excluding armor kits; and shorten
engineering and manufacturing development to about 32 months
from 48 months.  The updated strategy aims “to give industry greater
latitude to demonstrate what’s achievable on a light platform,”
Army Colonel David Bassett, project manager of tactical vehicles
in Warren, Michigan, said in an e-mail.  Three Contracts  Ford said it would need about 32 months to build prototypes
before beginning government testing, about a year longer than
the military may require.  The Army plans in June to award as many as three contracts,
each valued at as much as $65 million, for a total of $195
million, for the engineering and manufacturing development
phase, according to Bassett.  That’s in addition to the $217 million the Army already
awarded for technology development, including $74.6 million to
General Tactical Vehicles, a joint venture of  Falls Church ,
Virginia-based General Dynamics and AM General of South Bend,
Indiana; $77.4 million to London-based BAE Systems; and $65.4
million to Lockheed of Bethesda, Maryland, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Raytheon, Alliant  Ford, which was among the builders of the military’s Jeep
for World War II and the Vietnam-era M151 truck, left the market
in the 1980s when the Pentagon started buying Humvees from AM
General.  The Dearborn, Michigan-based automaker, which is second in
U.S. sales behind  General Motors (GM)  Co., was part of a team led by
defense contractor  SAIC Inc. (SAI)  that lost its bid for the new
vehicle’s initial technology development phase in 2008.  Now, Ford plans to join with defense contractors including
 Raytheon Co. (RTN)  of Waltham, Massachusetts, and  Alliant Techsystems
Inc. (ATK)  of Arlington,  Virginia , according to information from the
presentation distributed on Capitol Hill.  The Ford model’s curb weight, not counting passengers or
equipment, would be 10,600 pounds. A combat-ready vehicle would
cost less than $250,000, according to the presentation given by
Ford and Future Force Innovation Inc., a closely held company in
 New York  led by Robert Linton. Linton declined to comment for
this article.  Ford’s ‘Long History’  Ford has a “long history of working with the government
and we continue to look at new ideas and projects,” Mike
Levine, the company’s manager of truck communications, said in
an interview. Levine declined to comment on Ford’s intentions
regarding the military vehicle or on the presentation.  Prototypes of similar vehicles were on display in October
at the annual conference of the Association of the United States
Army in  Washington , including the Light All-Terrain Vehicle made
by Oshkosh, which has spent more than $60 million developing it,
according to John Urias, president of the Oshkosh, Wisconsin-
based company’s defense segment.  Oshkosh, which was founded in 1917 and made commercial
vehicles such as fire trucks and snowplows for most of its
history, has become the Pentagon’s leading supplier of heavy-
duty, medium-duty and light tactical trucks, including mine-
resistant vehicles.  Ford may use its work on military trucks to “push their
design and engineering thinking,” improving towing capacity and
off-road mobility for its  pickup trucks , Johnson, the auto
industry analyst, said. Ford can tap into its purchasing power
as the manufacturer of more than 5 million vehicles a year with
a global  supply chain , according to its presentation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan McGarry in Washington at 
 bmcgarry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  