-- Foreign Bribery Defendants May Fight More as Cases Falter
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-01-12T20:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/foreign-bribery-defendants-may-fight-more-as-prosecutors-falter.html
Executives facing trial in U.S.
courts over accusations of bribing foreign officials may be
encouraged to fight charges as prosecutors regroup after two
courtroom setbacks and await a verdict in their largest overseas
corruption probe targeting individuals.  One of two cases hailed by the government as milestones in
its enforcement of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act was
dismissed last year by a judge who said the jury verdict
convicting two men at an electricity tower company of bribing
Mexican officials was tainted by prosecutor misconduct in “a
sloppy, incomplete and notably over-zealous investigation.”  In the first prosecution under the FCPA based on a sting
operation, a judge declared a mistrial for four of 22 defendants
accused of participating in a fake $15 million weapons deal
involving Gabon. A separate trial is under way for a second
group of defendants.  The 2011 outcomes will make individual defendants in FCPA
cases more confident in contesting charges, in particular
because they may face long prison terms under the plea deals the
 Justice Department  offers, even as corporations continue to
self-report and settle, said  Philip Urofsky , a former FCPA
prosecutor who now defends cases at  Shearman & Sterling LLP .  “If a defendant is able to finance a significant defense,
they can really put the government to the test,” Urofsky said
in a phone interview.  Mixed Results  In a crackdown on overseas bribery that started during the
 Bush administration , the government settled 57 cases against
companies from 2005 through 2011 without trial, reaping $4.1
billion for the U.S. treasury, according to Justice Department
data. A push to prosecute more individual defendants during the
same period has produced mixed results, with some beating
charges outright and others getting less punishment than
prosecutors sought.  Of the 93 people charged over the past seven years,
including 43 in 2009 alone, 41 pleaded guilty and six were
convicted at trial, according to Shearman & Sterling data. Four
defendants are fugitives, one was exonerated and three had their
cases dismissed. Of the remainder, 38 either have a trial date
scheduled or are awaiting one. The 31 defendants who’ve been
sentenced got an average of 2 years and 2 months in prison.  ‘Great Success’  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the Justice Department,
said the government has had “great success”  against
individuals since increasing its enforcement actions in 2009.  “Our record speaks for itself, with numerous guilty pleas
and trial convictions, and substantial sentences imposed,
including a 15-year prison sentence just three months ago on
FCPA charges,” she said in an e-mailed statement. “These many
successful prosecutions of individuals are in addition to our
numerous corporate prosecutions.”  In the case that was thrown out because of misconduct, the
Justice Department is appealing the dismissal of the conviction
and indictment of the two Lindsey Manufacturing Co. executives
and the company. The government’s opening brief is due April 2.  The 1977 law bars companies or individuals regulated or
based in the U.S. from paying bribes to foreign officials to win
business. Foreign companies and nationals also can be prosecuted
if their corrupt acts were committed in the U.S.  Corporations started to approach the Justice Department
about possible FCPA violations and to negotiate settlements
beginning about 2003, when, as part of the  Sarbanes-Oxley Act ,
top executives were required to certify that they weren’t aware
of any fraud at their companies, Urofsky said.  More Resources  The multimillion-dollar settlements the Justice Department
reached with public companies led to more resources, including
prosecutors and FBI agents, getting assigned to FCPA cases,
Urofsky said. That in turn brought about more investigations of
smaller, closely held companies and individuals and an uptick in
FCPA trials the past two years, he said.  “Corporations will look at it as part of business
management and settle as long as the costs are reasonable and
don’t break the bank,” Urofsky said. “An individual can go to
jail -- they have a lot more tangible skin in the game.”  Bethany Hengsbach, a lawyer with  Sheppard Mullin Richter &
Hampton LLP  in  Los Angeles , said it’s difficult for the
government to investigate foreign bribery cases and bring them
to trial.  “FCPA cases present a unique number of challenges,
including overseas fact gathering, relying on the cooperation of
foreign governments,” she said in an interview.  The obstacles to compiling evidence may have caused
prosecutors to overreach in the case of Lindsey Manufacturing,
Hengsbach said.  Government Misconduct  Prosecutors persuaded a federal jury in Los Angeles to
render a guilty verdict in May against Lindsey’s president and
finance chief, as well as the closely held Asuza, California-
based company itself, over allegations of bribing Mexican
officials with a state utility. In November, U.S. District Judge
Howard Matz threw out the convictions after finding eight
instances of government misconduct, including using false
information to get a warrant, conducting unauthorized searches
and lying to a grand jury.  It was the first time in about two decades that FCPA
prosecutors were forced to go to trial against a company -- in
this case a business whose president, Keith Lindsey, is the son
of the founder, according to the company’s website.  One of the biggest hurdles prosecutors face is to prove
knowledge and intent, John Davis, a lawyer with  Miller &
Chevalier , said in a phone interview. Since many foreign bribery
cases turn on payments that are handled through middlemen,
prosecutors often need to rely on circumstantial evidence that
executives knew bribes were paid, Davis said.  Mexican Middleman  In the Lindsey case, a  Federal Bureau of Investigation 
agent had falsely testified before the grand jury that one of
the defendants told investigators that he “didn’t want to
know” what the Mexican middleman did with the unusually high
sales commissions he was paid, according to Matz’s findings.  Now, a former manager at a Texas unit of Zurich-based  ABB
Ltd. (ABBN)  is claiming the misconduct in the Lindsey investigation
also undermines the bribery case against him. He’s accused of
using the same intermediary to bribe the same Mexican utility
officials identified in the Lindsey case, according to court
filings.  The trial of the ex-ABB manager, John Joseph O’Shea, began
with jury selection yesterday in federal court in Houston.
O’Shea last month cited the Los Angeles judge’s ruling
dismissing the Lindsey case in his bid to block the government
from introducing evidence at trial of a Ferrari and a yacht,
both of which were identified as bribes in the Lindsey case,
according to court records.  Criminal Intent  The Justice Department has been so successful in developing
a culture in which companies self-investigate and self-report
that some prosecutors may have forgotten they have to prove
there was corruption and criminal intent when a case goes to
trial, said Peter Zeidenberg, a former federal prosecutor now
with  DLA Piper LLP (1191L)  in  Washington .  “They’re talking in a different language,” Zeidenberg
said in a telephone interview. “Out in the real world, a lot of
people don’t understand the FCPA. They don’t understand the law
and its prohibitions.”  In June, a federal jury in Washington deadlocked on charges
against four security-industry executives ensnared in a sting
operation.  Seeking a Retrial  Justice Department prosecutors had touted the case as a
cutting-edge example of the government using wiretaps and other
undercover techniques to pursue white-collar criminals. One
juror said after the mistrial that others on the panel were
troubled that the defendants might not have participated
willfully but for the government’s enticement. The government is
now seeking to retry the four men.  The case, involving alleged bribes to agents posing as
government representatives of Gabon, sub-Saharan  Africa ’s fifth-
biggest oil producer, is the biggest yet FCPA prosecution of
individuals, with a total of 22 defendants. Three of the
defendants pleaded guilty and agreed to cooperate. U.S. District
Judge Richard Leon grouped the remaining 19 defendants into four
trials.  A second group of defendants who went to trial won
dismissal last month of conspiracy charges against them,
resulting in one executive’s acquittal. A Washington jury is
expected to begin deliberating this week whether to convict the
other five defendants of bribery charges.  Urofsky said prosecutors may have erred in charging all 22
defendants with taking part in a single conspiracy, which
stemmed from a dinner at a Washington restaurant that the
government itself invited them to as part of the sting
operation.  Jim Giffen  Among government upsets in FCPA prosecutions of
individuals, one case that stands out is that of Jim Giffen, an
oil consultant who worked as a go-between for oil-rich
 Kazakhstan  and energy companies including  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  and the
former Mobil Oil Corp., negotiating payments for exploration
rights.  U.S. prosecutors in 2003 accused Giffen of funneling $78
million in bribes to leaders of the former Soviet republic in
what was then the largest case ever brought under the FCPA.
Seven years later, instead of a prison term for money laundering
and bribery, he received no punishment, pleading guilty to a
misdemeanor tax charge. Rather than reprimand him, the federal
judge overseeing his case thanked him Nov. 19 for “his
service” to America during and after the  Cold War .  ‘Embarrassing’ Conclusion  Giffen denied wrongdoing and said some of his still-
classified activities were done at the behest of the U.S.
government. For years, the case stalled as the government
refused to turn over documents that Giffen said would exonerate
him. In the end, prosecutors agreed he shouldn’t be imprisoned
and the judge called it an “embarrassing” conclusion to the
case.  Even when the government secures a conviction, some judges
have been disinclined, over the objections of prosecutors, to
impose significant sentences for foreign bribery crimes.  The U.S. sought 10-year prison terms for a Hollywood couple
convicted in 2009 of bribing a Thai government official to get a
contract to run a Bangkok film festival.  In August 2010, U.S. District Judge George Wu in Los
Angeles said while sentencing Gerald Green and his wife,
Patricia, to six months behind bars that their crimes weren’t as
serious as other foreign bribery cases. That was after a Justice
Department lawyer argued that it defied logic for the couple to
get a more lenient sentence than other defendants in foreign
bribery cases who pleaded guilty and cooperated.  Frederic Bourke  Federal prosecutors in  New York  sought the maximum 10-year
prison term after winning a conviction against Frederic Bourke
for conspiring to pay bribes to leaders in  Azerbaijan  in what
they called one of the most corrupt investment schemes in the
former  Soviet Union . Instead, Bourke, the co-founder of handbag
maker Dooney & Bourke, got one year and one day in prison.  At Bourke’s sentencing in November 2010, U.S. District
Judge Shira Scheindlin cited Bourke’s “lifetime of good works”
for a sentence that was far less than the 57 months to 71 months
recommended by U.S. sentencing guidelines. The judge said that
while she agreed with prosecutors that Bourke helped promote a
deal he knew was corrupt, there was “slim proof” that bribes
were ever paid.  Two executives charged under the FCPA didn’t fare as well
when they fought back. The former president of Miami-based Terra
Telecommunications Corp., Joel Esquenazi, was sentenced in
October to 15 years in prison after he was found guilty at trial
of bribing officials at a state-owned Haiti company. The
sentence was the longest ever in an FCPA case. A co-defendant
received a seven-year sentence.  Choosing to Settle  Many individual defendants still choose to settle, rather
than fight, and avoid the risk of a trial. In September, the
former chief executive officer of Latin Node Inc., a Miami-based
telecommunications company, was sentenced to 46 months in prison
after pleading guilty to bribing Honduran government officials,
and last month, a United Arab Emirates man, who was extradited
to the U.S., got 30 months after pleading guilty to bribing
Iraqi officials and paying kickbacks under the UN oil for food
program.  “They probably have had more successes than failures,”
Davis, the Miller & Chevalier attorney, said of the Justice
Department’s FCPA unit. “They’re still very committed to
charging individuals because of the deterrent effect.”  In December, eight former executives of  Siemens AG (SIE) ,
 Europe ’s largest engineering company, were charged by the U.S.
with conspiring to bribe Argentine government officials to land
a $1 billion contract to make national  identity cards . None of
the accused live in the U.S. and it wasn’t known whether they
will be extradited.  The Lindsey case is U.S. v. Aguilar, 2:10-cr-01031, U.S.
District Court, Central District of  California  (Los Angeles).
The Gabon case is U.S. v. Goncalves, 09-cr-00335, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 