-- Forint Rises to 2012 High as Hungary Beats Debt-Auction Goal on Aid Bets
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-01-12T17:49:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/forint-rises-to-2012-high-as-hungary-beats-debt-auction-goal-on-aid-bets.html
Hungary ’s forint rose to the
strongest this year as bets the country will agree to conditions
imposed by the  International Monetary Fund  and European Union
for a bailout helped exceed the sale target at a bond auction.  The forint appreciated as much as 1.9 percent and was up 1
percent at 308.52 per euro at 5 p.m. in Budapest, the strongest
closing level since Dec. 27. It reached a record low of 324.24
on Jan. 5. The government sold 44 billion forint ($181 million)
of debt, 11 billion forint more than targeted, in notes maturing
in 2014, 2017 and 2022, according to data from the Debt
Management Agency posted on its Bloomberg page.  Hungary’s currency rebounded and yields retreated after
Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  moved to resolve a dispute about the
independence of the central bank that led the EU and IMF to
break off talks on financial assistance last month. The European
Commission said yesterday the country faces the suspension of
some its funding and possible sanctions for breaching budget-
deficit targets and for laws that that may contravene EU rules.  “The probability of striking a deal has increased,”  Janos Samu , a Budapest-based economist at Concorde Securities, told
reporters, adding that the prospect of an aid agreement boosted
the forint. The government is “ready to yield more to the IMF
and the EU in exchange for a loan. It remains to be seen if it’s
enough.”  Hungary is “ready to negotiate all the points” for a loan
agreement and is waiting for “convincing” arguments from the
bloc on any objections to its laws and policies, Orban said at a
briefing with foreign correspondents in Budapest today.  The yield on the 2022 securities was 9.38 percent at
today’s auction, compared with 9.70 percent at the last sale
Dec. 29 and the  first time  since September that borrowing costs
decreased for that maturity.  IMF Meeting  Tamas Fellegi, the minister leading the foreign-aid talks,
is in  Washington  and will meet IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  today. Fellegi is scheduled to talk with European
Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  on Jan. 20
to discuss Hungary’s central bank law and will also meet
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  next week.  “On Hungary, we are really very concerned,” Draghi told
reporters in  Frankfurt  today. “The ECB is extremely careful and
attentive to signs of pressure being put by the decision making
bodies of any member state on their” national central banks.  While an agreement between Hungary and the IMF to unlock
financial aid would be positive, it wouldn’t automatically
trigger a change in the  credit rating  or its outlook, Matteo Napolitano, a director of sovereign ratings at  Fitch Ratings ,
told reporters in Warsaw today. Fitch lowered its rating on
Hungary on Jan. 6, the third assessor to downgrade the country’s
debt to junk in two months.  Debt Sales  The benchmark BUX  index  of shares gained 1.6 percent as OTP
Bank Nyrt., Hungary’s largest lender, jumped 4.4 percent.
Hungarian stocks and the currency extended advances today after
 Spain  sold twice the planned amount of bonds at an auction and
 Italy ’s borrowing costs fell at a bill sale.  Hungary’s auction result “is more the general sentiment
rather than Hungary-specific factors as a lot of uncertainty
still remains,” Esther Law, a London-based strategist at
Societe Generale SA, wrote in comments sent by e-mail. “This is
consistent with Fitch’s comments on the IMF deal.”  Below-Target Sales  At the Dec. 29 auction, the government sold 15 billion
forint in bonds, 18 billion forint less than the target, as
borrowing costs rose to the highest in more than two years,
while the state rejected all bids for three-year notes.  Hungary raised the planned amount of debt at two Treasury
bill sales this week and the cost of insuring against a default
on Hungary’s debt with credit-default swaps fell from a record
high. The CDS contracts fell to 671 basis points today from 679
basis points yesterday, compared with a record 735 basis points
last week, according to data provider CMA. A basis point is one
hundredth of a percentage point.  “The IMF and the EU are cautious and could prove difficult
partners to conclude a new financial assistance deal as quickly
as Hungary would currently wish for,”  Agata Urbanska , a London-
based economist at HSBC Bank Plc, wrote in a research report
today. “The slower pace of talks means the elevated  risk
premium  prevailing for longer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  