-- Apple Supplier Foxconn Says 150 Workers at South China Factory in Protest
-- B y   J a n e t   O n g   a n d   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-01-12T10:31:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/foxconn-says-150-workers-at-china-plant-protest-redeployment.html
Foxconn Technology Group (FOXCGZ) , maker of
parts for  Microsoft (MSFT)  Corp.’s Xbox, said some members of its 1
million-person workforce threatened to jump from a factory
building earlier this month to protest an internal transfer of
employees.  About 150 workers at Foxconn’s plant in Wuhan, southern
China, demonstrated on Jan. 2 in opposition to the company’s
plan to move them to a new  production line , the Taiwanese
company said in an e-mailed statement today. Foxconn didn’t say
how many threatened to leap from the three-story building.  The incident was resolved the same day, after talks between
the workers, executives and government officials, Foxconn said.
Microsoft said in a separate statement that it investigated the
issue.  Foxconn, the world’s biggest contract manufacturer of
electronics including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, raised wages and
boosted worker welfare in 2010 after at least 10 employees
committed suicide. The Wuhan protests showed the Taipei-based
company needs to improve communication with workers, said
 Geoffrey Crothall , a director at rights group China Labor
Bulletin.  “The reason you see these protests is because the
employees feel they have no other option,” Crothall said by
phone from Hong Kong today. Threatening suicide is a common way
for Chinese workers to draw employers’ attention to grievances,
he said.  Worker Suicides  Forty five employees in Wuhan resigned after the dispute
over reassignments among the facility’s 32,000 employees,
Foxconn said in the statement.  The suicides at Foxconn in 2010 prompted labor groups
including  China  Labor Watch to say the Taipei-based company
pushes employees to work long hours to earn more money. Foxconn
denied the allegation.  “After talking with workers and management, it is our
understanding that the worker protest was related to staffing
assignments and transfer policies, not working conditions,”
Microsoft said in its statement.  The majority of the protesters at Foxconn returned to work,
Microsoft said.  “The welfare of our employees is our top priority,”
Foxconn said in the statement. “The operational changes that
were the basis for this incident are being carried out in
accordance with all relevant laws and regulations.”  In 2010, Foxconn offered to double wages for workers in
Shenzhen, the company’s biggest manufacturing center in China;
install safety nets; and hire counselors and psychologists in
response to the employee suicides.  The Taiwan company also moved production to locations in
central and western China, where costs are lower than in the
east.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net ;
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  