-- Freepoint Commodities Plans to Open Office in Asia After European Push
-- B y   L a r s   P a u l s s o n   a n d   C h a n y a p o r n   C h a n j a r o e n
-- 2012-01-12T12:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/freepoint-commodities-plans-asian-expansion-after-european-trading-push.html
Freepoint Commodities LLC, the
energy-trading company founded last year by three former RBS
Sempra Commodities LLP executives, will open an office in  Asia 
this year to tap growing demand for raw materials in  China .  “For us as a start, it will probably be Singapore and or
Beijing,” Chief Executive Officer David Messer said in a phone
interview on Jan. 10 from Greenwich,  Connecticut . “China is
clearly one of the largest consumers on the globe of a variety
of the commodities which we are trading.” He didn’t say what
the company plans to trade.  The company, which entered U.S. power and natural-gas
markets in June, hired more than 25 traders as competitors are
cutting workforces. Cargill Inc. said last month it would cut as
many as 2,000 jobs globally and is restructuring its European
energy trading operations. JPMorgan Chase & Co.’s managing
director for environmental markets left his post in  New York  at
the end of last year after his team was shrunk.  Freepoint will open its Asian office in the coming months,
said Messer, who has worked in  commodities markets  for almost
three decades.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. advised clients to stay
“overweight” in commodities, as a rebound in demand revives
speculation of shortages. China, the world’s second-largest oil
consumer after the U.S., may buy record volumes of crude this
year as it bolsters emergency stockpiles and expands refining
capacity. The nation may buy 9 percent more this year, according
to the median estimate of seven analysts and traders in a
Bloomberg survey.  Expanding in Europe  Freepoint, which started operations in February, is
expanding in  Europe  even as the region’s debt crisis threatens
to curb growth and demand for energy. Electricity consumption in
 Germany , the region’s biggest economy, may shrink as much as 2
percent this year, according to UBS AG.  It will start European  emissions trading  by the end of this
month and Nordic power contracts in February, Michael Walter,
London-based head of European power and natural gas and global
head of coal and emissions trading, said in the same interview.  “There are uncertainties with predicting future
developments in Europe, but we are very optimistic about the
business opportunities for Freepoint here,” Walter said from
the London office, which opened in October.  Daniel Mulder, a former employee at RBS Sempra and Mercuria
Energy Group Ltd., was hired to trade  carbon emissions , while
Thomas Nilsson joined from Barclays Plc to buy and sell Nordic
power, Freepoint said.  The company will be trading in continental power, U.K.
power and gas and financial coal markets by the end of the first
quarter or the start of the second quarter, Walter said.  Metals, Agriculture  Freepoint may consider going into metals and agriculture.
“We have experience in the metals markets and some degree of
knowledge and comfort,” said Messer. “As we identify and
recruit experienced individuals we’ll look to expand our trading
into metals and other markets.”  The other two founders of Freepoint are Frank Gallipoli,
former president of RBS Sempra, and Robert Feilbogen, the former
chief operating officer. The founders, employees and private
equity funds managed by Stone Point Capital LLC have provided
capital for the company of more than $300 million. Freepoint
also signed a $500 million credit facility in November to
support its trading activities.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson in London at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  or;
Chanyaporn Chanjaroen in Singapore at 
 cchanjaroen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  