-- General Growth Completes Spinoff of 30 Retail Centers Into New Rouse REIT
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-01-12T21:15:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/general-growth-completes-spinoff-of-30-retail-centers-into-new-rouse-reit.html
General Growth Properties Inc. (GGP) 
completed its spinoff of 30 retail properties into a publicly
traded company, allowing the second-largest U.S. mall owner to
focus on better-performing centers.  The portfolio was spun off to shareholders as  Rouse
Properties Inc. (RSE-W) , a real estate investment trust based in  New
York , Rouse said today in a statement. The name of the new REIT
comes from General Growth’s $11.3 billion purchase of
commercial-property developer Rouse Co. in 2004.  General Growth, based in  Chicago , divested itself of the
malls to concentrate on properties with higher rents and tenant
sales and to reduce debt. Rouse’s malls are either the main
shopping center in smaller U.S. cities or are second-tier
properties in major markets.  “It’s not a troubled portfolio,” Craig Guttenplan, an
analyst at CreditSights Inc. in  London , said in a telephone
interview before the spinoff was completed. “It’s just
properties with less growth potential.”  Rouse’s 30 malls are 88 percent occupied and generate sales
of about $280 per square foot, Nathan Isbee, an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co., wrote in a Nov. 11 report. General Growth
had tenant sales of $471 a square foot on a trailing 12-month
basis as of Sept. 30, and a 92.7 percent occupancy rate for its
regional malls, the company said on Nov. 9.  Rouse plans to spend $200 million on property redevelopment
by the end of 2015 to boost net operating income, the company
said in a regulatory  filing  last month.  Rouse was expected to have about $1.16 billion of debt with
a weighted average interest rate of about 5.6 percent at the
time of the spinoff, General Growth said on Dec. 20.  Andrew Silberfein took over as chief executive officer of
Rouse on Jan. 2, according to a regulatory  filing . Silberfein
previously was executive vice president of retail and finance at
Forest City Ratner Cos., where he worked since 1995.  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) , based in Indianapolis, is the
only U.S. mall owner larger than General Growth.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  