-- German 2011 Federal Government Borrowed Less Than Planned
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2012-01-12T14:01:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/german-2011-federal-government-borrowed-less-than-planned-1-.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
government borrowed less than planned last year as economic
growth beat official estimates and unemployment dropped more
than forecast to a two-decade low, the  Finance Ministry  said.  Federal net new borrowing declined to 17.3 billion euros
($22 billion) in 2011 from about 44 billion euros in 2010, the
Finance Ministry said in a press release distributed in Berlin
today. The federal government’s budget plan originally called
for borrowing of 48.4 billion euros in 2011 to finance spending
of 305.8 billion euros.  The lower than expected deficit “is a result of growth and
confidence in the German economy,” Deputy Finance Minister
Steffen Kampeter told reporters in Berlin. “It shows that
consolidation and growth are siblings that get along well.”  Germany  as a whole had a budget shortfall of 1 percent of
gross domestic product in 2011, according to provisional figures
published by the Federal Statistics Office yesterday. Merkel’s
government violated a European Union rule that limits budget
deficits to 3 percent of GDP in the two preceding years.  Kampeter said higher revenue and lower spending squeezed
the 2011 deficit, including a “consolidation dividend” from
labor-market policies, lower interest costs as a result of
Germany’s benchmark status as a bond issuer and higher than
expected tax intake.  Germany will probably present a supplementary budget this
year if payments to the permanent rescue fund, the European
Stability Mechanism, are higher than the 4.5 billion euros
envisaged, he said. Kampeter said the 2012 budget will contain
an “amount X” for payments into the ESM. The government will
attempt to use spending cuts in the execution of the budget to
reduce that amount.  The German economy,  Europe ’s biggest, expanded 3 percent
last year, the statistics office said, a faster pace than the
2.3 percent that formed the basis for last year’s federal
budget. The economy shrank “roughly” 0.25 percent in the
fourth quarter from the third, the statistics office estimated.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  