-- Gingrich Seeks to Stall Romney Momentum With Abortion Attack Ads
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-12T15:53:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/gingrich-seeks-to-stall-romney-momentum-with-abortion-attack-ads.html
After criticizing  Mitt Romney  in  New
Hampshire  for his investment practices, one of the first attack
ads aimed at the Republican front-runner by his presidential
primary rivals in South Carolina highlights his changed position
from supporting abortion rights to opposing them.  The shift reflects the contest’s change in location. In
2008, 60 percent of Republican primary voters in South Carolina
said they considered themselves “born again,” or evangelical
Christians, exit polling showed.  The commercial is one of several anti-Romney messages now
filling the Palmetto State’s airwaves. The good news for the
former Massachusetts governor: He and his allies have the
resources to match them and hit back before the Jan. 21 primary
that may winnow the field.  Television ads promoting Romney, the winner of the Jan. 10
New Hampshire primary, are airing about as frequently as spots
attacking him, according to an analysis by New York-based Kantar
Media’s CMAG of  South Carolina  television markets since Dec. 27.  Romney’s campaign has also jumped ahead on the calendar to
air ads in  Florida , including a Miami commercial aimed at
Hispanic voters in which the candidate and his son deliver their
message in Spanish.  Negative Ads  In South Carolina, ads that mention former House Speaker
 Newt Gingrich , Romney’s most aggressive rival on the airwaves,
are overwhelmingly negative in tone, the CMAG report concluded.  “The story is an intensifying level of advertising in
which Gingrich is still getting pounded, but Romney is now the
focus of about as much negative as positive paid media,” the
report said. “Romney and his supporters have a lot of their own
messaging out there.”  Romney’s campaign announced today that it raised $24
million in the last three months of 2011 and $56 million in the
calendar year.  Campaign finance reports due Jan. 31 probably will show
Romney is the leader in raising money among the candidates vying
to challenge President  Barack Obama . Texas Representative  Ron Paul  is the second-best fundraiser; his campaign reported this
week that he took in $13 million in the fourth quarter of 2011
and a total of more than $25 million for the year.  Romney and a political committee supporting him spent
$628,700 on television ads in South Carolina as of Jan. 10, CMAG
data show. That’s more than seven times the $88,440 that
Gingrich spent on ads in the state.  Charleston Market  In the Charleston media market, pro-Romney and anti-Romney
ads each aired about 400 times in the past two weeks, while
anti-Gingrich ads ran about 400 times and no pro-Gingrich ads
appeared, the CMAG report said. In the Columbia market, ads
supporting Romney outnumbered those opposing him.  Gingrich’s two South Carolina ads attack Romney, with one
saying he espouses “timid” economic policies and the other
charging he was “pro-abortion” as governor of  Massachusetts .  In the past few days, Gingrich has attacked Romney’s past
service as a private-equity executive at Bain Capital LLC. A
pro-Gingrich political action committee, Winning Our Future,
began airing an ad today that describes Romney as a “corporate
raider” who fired workers in order to boost profits. It’s an
excerpt from an almost 30-minute program the group released on
its website.  A committee supporting Texas Governor Rick Perry, who is
looking to revive his campaign in South Carolina after a fifth-
place showing in Iowa and sixth place in New Hampshire, has
spent $1.2 million on ads in South Carolina, about one-third of
it on a spot attacking Gingrich and Romney. The group isn’t on
the air there now. Perry’s campaign spent $96,410 on ads in
South Carolina.  Romney Ads  The pro-Romney political committee, Restore Our Future, is
financing most of the attack ads on Gingrich in South Carolina.
One commercial presently airing in four markets says Gingrich
“has admitted his mistakes or flipped” positions on issues
including immigration and health care. Another commercial that
began airing today says Gingrich has been making “desperate
attacks” and he’s doing so “because he has more baggage than
the airlines.”  Restore Our Future aired anti-Gingrich ads in  Iowa  that
helped erase his lead in polls and lift Romney to an eight-vote
victory in the Jan. 3 caucuses over former Pennsylvania Senator
 Rick Santorum . Gingrich finished fourth.  Romney has ignored his Republican rivals in his South
Carolina campaign ads, which focus on his economic plans and his
criticism of Obama’s labor policies.  Santorum, who is courting South Carolina’s large bloc of
evangelical voters, spent $47,910 to air ads promoting his
background. Red, White and Blue Fund, a pro-Santorum political
committee, spent $72,910.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  