-- Google Adds VMware’s Greene to Board, Gaining Business-Customer Experience
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-01-12T23:50:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/google-names-former-vmware-ceo-diane-greene-to-its-board.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) , the world’s biggest
Internet-search company, named former VMware Inc. Chief
Executive Officer Diane Greene to its board, adding a director
with experience selling to corporate customers.  Greene, who co-founded data-center software maker VMware,
will serve on the audit committee, Mountain View, California-
based Google said today in a  statement . Greene, who was ousted
from VMware in 2008, also serves on the board of finance-
software maker Intuit Inc.  “Diane is a special person who combines a sharp business
acumen with a brilliant technical mind,” Executive Chairman
 Eric Schmidt  said in the statement. “We know she will be a
great contributor and we are grateful to have her insight.”  Google is seeking to sell more business services, part of
an effort to expand beyond search-engine advertising -- its main
source of revenue. Evidence of making headway in that market
came yesterday when Google landed its biggest corporate contract
ever. The company will supply e-mail and document services to
Spanish Bank Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA.  Greene, 56, co-founded  VMware (VMW)  in 1998 and sold it to
storage-computer maker EMC Corp. in 2004. VMware was spun off
from EMC in 2007 in an  initial public offering , though the
parent company maintained a majority ownership.  VMware Departure  VMware pushed out Greene as CEO in July 2008 on the same
day it announced that annual sales would fall short of its
projections. She was replaced by Paul Maritz, an EMC executive
who once worked at Microsoft Corp.  VMware’s products help companies’ servers run more
efficiently by letting them use different operating systems.
Greene founded VMware with husband Mendel Rosenblum, who served
as chief scientist at the company.  Greene joins  nine other board members , including  John Doerr , general partner at Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; John Hennessy, president of  Stanford University ; and Paul Otellini,
CEO of Intel Corp. Google’s CEO, Larry Page, also sits on the
board, along with co-founder  Sergey Brin .  Google shares rose less than 1 percent to $629.64 in
today’s  trading . The stock climbed 8.7 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  