-- Google Readies Next Version of TV Software for 2012 Release
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-01-12T21:06:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/google-readies-next-version-of-tv-software-for-2012-release.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  plans to release an
updated version of software for its namesake television service
by year-end, adding content and making it easier for users to
find shows.  Google TV will undergo annual software upgrades, Rishi Chandra, director of  product management  at the company, said in
an interview yesterday at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las
Vegas .  “We don’t intend to stop iterating,” Chandra said.
“You’ll see cool interaction stuff, you’ll see a lot of cool
things happening on the recommendation engine and on the
discovery experience.”  Google, owner of the world’s most popular search engine, is
working to build on momentum for its fledgling efforts in
television. After debuting to lackluster sales in 2010, Google
TV earned the support of hardware manufacturers including  LG
Electronics Inc. (066570)  and OnLive Inc., an application developer, both
of which unveiled products around the service this week in Las
Vegas.  The third version of Google TV will become available in the
second half of this year, Chris Dale, a spokesman for the
 Mountain View , California-based company, said in an interview.  Google TV is focused on helping users make sense of all the
TV shows and Web videos available to them, Chandra said.  ‘Biggest Challenge’  “The biggest challenge facing the content industry going
forward is that in a world of unlimited choice, how do you
actually bring the right content to the user?” he said.  The software will eventually be able to track all the
material people watch -- including live programming and online
videos -- and offer recommendations on other content they might
enjoy. These personalized features will be opt-in, and not
mandatory for all users, Chandra said.  “We need to make it so that any time you turn on the TV we
know what you want to watch,” he said.  Since upgrading Google TV in October, the company has seen
activations of the service more than double, the company  said  in
a blog posting last week.  The company develops the software for the service and
relies on manufacturers of TVs and other electronics to build
products that work with the technology.  Google rose 0.6 percent to $629.64 at the close in  New
York . The shares  gained  8.7 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas Macmillan in New York at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  