-- Grassley Presses Deere, GPS Makers on Contacts Over Falcone’s LightSquared
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-12T14:56:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/grassley-queries-deere-gps-makers-on-contacts-with-lightsquared.html
Senator  Charles Grassley  asked
companies claiming service disruption from Philip Falcone’s
proposed LightSquared wireless network to provide information
about their contacts with the U.S. government.  Letters went to navigation-equipment makers Trimble
Navigation Ltd. and Garmin Ltd., and farm-gear maker Deere &
Co., according to a statement yesterday from Grassley’s office.
The request was part of a deal with LightSquared to get the
company to provide documents about its dealings with the White
House and regulators, according to the statement.  Grassley, the Judiciary Committee's senior Republican, is
investigating whether the Federal Communications Commission
followed proper procedure in partially approving the plan last
year. U.S. officials withheld final clearance to weigh the 
scope of the Reston, Virginia-based service’s disruption of 
global-positioning system devices guiding jets, boats and cars.  “Ultimately, the FCC needs to be open and transparent,”
Grassley said in the letters. “There are still numerous
questions about the FCC’s decision to grant a waiver without
transparency.”  Tammy Sun, an FCC spokeswoman, declined to comment.  Grassley asked Falcone and LightSquared Chief Executive
Officer  Sanjiv Ahuja  on Oct. 5 for records of contacts with the
White House and U.S. regulators to put “questions of improper
influence” to rest.  LightSquared and its backer, Falcone’s Harbinger Capital
Partners hedge fund, agreed to comply after six weeks of
negotiations, provided Grassley made a similar request of GPS
interests, Grassley said in yesterday’s letters.  Similar Request  “I am aware of no allegations” about communications
between GPS interests and the FCC, Grassley said in the letters.
“I am simply making this request consistent with the statement
my office made” pledging to ask GPS companies for documents if
that would evoke a release from LightSquared.  The FCC “has generated questions over its rush to grant
approvals to the company for a proposal that would create broad
and in some cases dangerous interference with the GPS devices
used widely by the U.S. military, aviation, agriculture, and
first responders,” according to the statement from Grassley’s
office.  Two-Stage Process  Terry Neal , a spokesman for LightSquared, said the company
“worked with  Senator Grassley ’s office to establish a two-stage
process for providing the requested documents.”  “LightSquared completed the first stage several weeks ago,
per our agreement with the senator’s office, and we will be
working with the senator’s office to complete our production,”
Neal said in an e-mailed statement.  Trimble is “happy to support Senator Grassley’s
oversight,” Jim Kirkland, general counsel, said in an e-mailed
statement. Deere, which has expressed concern that
LightSquared’s service may interfere with tractors guided by
GPS, will produce documents, Kenneth Golden, a spokesman, said
by phone. Garmin “is pleased to supply  Senator Grassley with
relevant information,” Ted Gartner, a spokesman, said by phone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in  Washington  at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  