-- Greatest Running Shoe Never Sold Leaves Inventor Without Deal
-- B y   B o b   P a r k s
-- 2012-01-12T22:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/greatest-running-shoe-never-sold-leaves-inventor-without-deal.html
Late one night in August 1997, Lenn
Rockford Hann placed two bottles of Gatorade near Concourse F of
Chicago O’Hare International Airport, unlaced his sneakers,
removed his socks, then dodged curious workers for two hours
while running 13.1 miles (21.1 kilometers) on the walkways.  His pace surprised the 54-year-old inventor. Hann was
convinced the springy, resilient surface was almost perfect.  “My legs felt amazing,” says Hann, a marathoner. “I’ve
been chasing a shoe that feels that good ever since.”  For years, Hann had been designing a running shoe that he
hoped would give him an edge. After his airport run (in the days
of lighter security, naturally), he knew he was onto something,
and he became obsessed with O’Hare’s movable sidewalks,
Bloomberg Businessweek  reports  in its Jan. 16 issue.  Finding a walkway in the midst of repair on a subsequent
jog, he jumped into the pit to look at its clockworks. There he
found rollers on each side, with the belt’s tension the only
thing holding people up in the middle.  The next day, Hann called the belt company, Fenner Dunlop
BV, and learned they were adjusted to 2,500 foot-pounds of force
to create the right balance.  Athletic brands spend millions every year trying to build a
better sneaker that will propel them to the front of the $6.3
billion running-shoe business, one of the biggest and most
visible areas of sporting goods, with 11 percent growth in 2011,
according to industry analyst  SportsOneSource .  Soles Like Lasagna  Almost all sneakers have a sole that looks like lasagna,
composed of layers of rubber, foam, and plastic. The fluffy foam
is made from ethylene-vinyl acetate, or EVA, which has its
critics: EVA adds weight to shoes, and lab tests show it
requires more energy per stride.  Running-shoe companies have long sought an EVA substitute
that absorbs shock and also returns more energy.  “Consumers like the cushioned feeling associated with a
conventional running shoe,” says  Darren Stefanyshyn , a
University of Calgary researcher and former chairman of the
 Footwear Biomechanics Group.  “If you could provide that without
using foam, you’d have a winner.”  While it took him seven years, Hann finally converted his
airport research into a breakthrough sneaker patented in 2008, a
shoe with an entirely different system to cushion and propel the
foot. It quickly attracted the attention of fast-growing
athletic brand  Under Armour Inc. (UA) , which spent two years and
hundreds of thousands of dollars to develop it as the
prospective centerpiece of the company’s first line of footwear.  While Hann’s shoe was scheduled to be introduced early this
year and was poised to rock the footwear industry, it never
quite made it to market.  Relentlessly Upbeat  Hann is a former software engineer with glasses, short
brown hair, a high domed forehead, and ears that stick out like
antennae. He is talkative, relentlessly upbeat, and consistently
attired in marathon T-shirts. His  Volkswagen (VOY)  bears the license
plate TNASHS, for “tenacious.”  In the years following his midnight airport jog, Hann
licensed several inventions -- an electronic cat toy among them
-- that brought him modest income.  However, the shoe was always
his favorite project. He tried many materials before landing on
carbon fiber, an ultra-strong substance that holds its shape
after years of pounding. He engineered carbon-fiber shock
absorbers into his shoe to give it cushioning and stability in
one mechanism. A hinge in the forefoot provided flexibility.  Kitchen-Created Prototype  Three days before the 2002 Chicago Marathon, Hann bought
industrial carbon-fiber fabric and baked it in his kitchen. Once
the fumes dissipated, he cannibalized the uppers of a pair of
New Balance 763 running shoes for his prototypes. As he hacked
off layers of EVA foam from the sneakers with a table saw, his
hand slipped and the blade cut deeply into his thumb, embedding
bits of blue foam into the wound. Hann rushed to the emergency
room, then assembled the shoes the next day.  Hann believes his prototype was responsible for shaving 17
minutes off his record in the marathon. He immediately made
more. A member of his pace group wore them, reporting her legs
felt “full of energy.”  Kris Hartner, owner of  Naperville Running  in Naperville,
Illinois, delivered a tougher critique: “pretty good,” he
said, though “a bit slappy.” The transitions between midstance
and toe-off were “rough.” A shard of carbon fiber came loose,
slicing Hartner’s calf.  New Balance Talks  All the same, Hartner, who has a master’s in biomechanics,
took Hann’s concept seriously. When New Balance Athletic Shoe
Inc. owner Jim Davis visited the shop, Hartner said he should
check out Hann’s shoes. Hann met with New Balance and secured an
investor, who contributed $300,000.  Hann and the investor made prototypes in  Korea , paid an
attorney to patent the shoe, and hired an exercise laboratory to
test it. The facility found that runners in Hann’s prototypes
consumed an average of 2.2 percent less oxygen. While that may
not sound like a lot, it pointed to a significant reduction in
energy when running long distances.  When it came time to talk price with New Balance, Hann set
his offer sky-high. While he says he meant it as a starting
point, company executives closed discussions. While Hartner
remains a supporter of the shoe, he says Hann blew the
negotiation.  “He would be way better off with an agent to represent
him,” says Hartner. “He’s the inventor-scientist guy, you know
it from movies. But in real life they sometimes end up shooting
themselves in the foot, and it’s hard to watch. They’re not as
good at the people thing.”  Six years later, it appeared Hann might be back in
business.  Enter Under Armour  Kip Fulks, Chief Operating Officer of Under Armour, learned
about Hann’s shoe after the inventor completed a small,
exploratory project with the company. Fulks wanted to debut a
major sneaker development, and in 2009 he invited Hann to the
company’s Baltimore headquarters to negotiate.  Since its inception in 1996, Under Armour has come out of
nowhere with innovative products like its HeatGear compression
shirt to stalk Beaverton, Oregon-based  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and
Herzogenaurach, Germany-based  Adidas AG. (ADS)  The shirt is a nylon
garment that hugs the body, and it has largely replaced heavy
cotton tees for athletes.  Nike’s 2010 revenue was about $19 billion compared to $1.1
billion at Under Armour, and to truly challenge its competitors,
Under Armour needs footwear. (While the company hastily designed
trainers in 2009, the attempt impressed neither consumers nor
investors.)  Tough Negotiations  The negotiations between Hann and Under Armour were never
smooth, though they seemed headed in the right direction. On one
side of the table sat Fulks and his designers. On the other was
Hann, his investor, and his attorney.  First they hammered out an option agreement, a sort of
preamble to a longer-term licensing deal. Hann asked for a
monthly option fee, basically an advance on future royalties.
After some haggling, Fulks agreed to $8,000 per month, to be
shared with Hann’s investor and attorney.  Next, Fulks and Hann locked horns over the range for future
royalties. Hann asked for 3 percent to 6 percent, a rate more
akin to a tech product than footwear. Fulks pulled the pair back
to 1 percent to 4 percent. (Aerospace engineer M. Frank Rudy,
who sold “Air” to Nike, was awarded a royalty of about one
percentage point when he originally made the deal, according to
a source familiar with the contract, who declined to be named
because the discussions were private. Nike wouldn’t comment on
how much Rudy earned.)  Celebratory Beers  Finally, on March 24, 2009, the two signed the option,
agreeing to the 1 percent to 4 percent range, with an exact
percentage to be determined later. It was a huge step. To
celebrate, an Under Armour design manager invited Hann to a
nearby bar; they drank beers into the night while talking
footwear technology. Hann proudly showed off the blue foam
embedded in his thumb. They toasted the new shoe.  “At that point, I suddenly realized that more people had
gone to the moon than had ever licensed running footwear,” he
recalls. “We were almost there. I was in heaven.”  That year, Hann was an electrical storm of activity,
calling the company almost daily with ideas. Under Armour made
six rounds of “prototype tooling,” the aluminum molds for
model shoes, and performed extensive testing with favorable
results. The project was getting close to “final tooling” when
expensive steel molds are struck in all sizes, men’s and
women’s.  Delaying Tactic  Then, in summer 2010, Fulks announced that it was time to
settle on a licensing agreement. To Hann, this seemed like a
formality. He suggested leaving it to the attorneys. Then he
waited. After a four-week silence, Hann couldn’t take it and
called a former Under Armour employee for insight.  It’s a delaying tactic, said the acquaintance, whom Hann
declined to identify because the person wasn’t authorized to
speak about the matter.  Three weeks later, Hann traveled to  Portland ,  Oregon , for a
hastily scheduled meeting with Adidas. While executives there
were encouraging, they didn’t want a bidding war with Under
Armour. That very afternoon, Under Armour sent an apologetic e-
mail with the much-anticipated licensing agreement. (Hann
doesn’t know whether this was somehow triggered by the Adidas
trip.)  Tentative Licensing Pact  It included a royalty rate of 1.5 percent for the first
stage of sales, and 1 percent thereafter. Through his attorney,
Hann countered with 5.75 percent and 4.25 percent. Hann’s lawyer
says Under Armour took the soaring rates like a jab in the eye;
Under Armour wouldn’t comment on the specifics of the
negotiations.  For the next three months, Under Armour refused a face-to-
face meeting although did make concessions, raising its
percentage and throwing in a monthly advance. Hann held out for
higher numbers. He fielded interest from a new set of investors
and became more wary of Under Armour.  “I feel like the mouse dancing with the bear,” he said.
“No matter how careful the bear is, the mouse better watch
out.”  In late October 2010, Kevin Haley, senior vice-president of
innovation at Under Armour, took over the project from Fulks.
Haley offered to put the licensing negotiation on hold and renew
the option agreement at $15,000 per month. The implication was
that this would allow them to work together like old times.  Agreement Fizzles  Hann rebuffed the offer, believing Under Armour was
bluffing and it was a way of avoiding a licensing agreement. In
early December 2010, Under Armour’s attorney delivered the news:
The company decided to move in a different direction. Hann’s
work with the company was over.  Last month, Under Armour introduced its  Charge RC  running
shoe. It features a strip of carbon fiber along the bottom, to
enhance the ride and response rather than for cushioning.  “It’s a different use of carbon fiber than what we were
exploring,” says Haley. “But I think it shows that Under
Armour takes an open approach to innovation -- we test a lot of
technologies and make a lot of different prototypes before
arriving at what comes to market.”  Unlike Hann’s prototype, the Charge RC fits the current
trend of minimal running shoes; it weighs less than 10 ounces
(0.2835 kilograms) and has a sole close to the ground. Hann’s
shoe weighs more and sits higher.  Bouncing Back  Asked why Under Armour didn’t go with Hann’s shoe, Haley
says: “We go down the path of evaluating new technologies with
more people than other companies, so we’re going to encounter
more situations where it doesn’t work out for us as a commercial
product.”  For Under Armour, making a shoe with such an unprecedented
technology would have been a challenge to  source , manufacture,
test, and market. Could Under Armour have managed those
logistics given another few months of exploratory development?
We’ll never know; Hann’s over-the-top royalty demands denied it
that opportunity.  Hann accepts that he had a role in the falling-out.  “I know I screwed up,” he says. “But despite my bumbling
efforts, the technology deserves to be out there.”  In the last few months, he has continued pitching his
sneaker. He says he now has a promising new partner, and is also
in talks with a medical-device company about an electronic
invention for hospitals. He hasn’t hired an agent.  Curious about Hann’s shoe, I took a few turns around his
cul-de-sac in the upscale suburb of Wheaton,  Illinois , with a
test pair. I was surprised to see lots of EVA. Hann argues that
some foam is needed to hold the carbon fiber in place and that
it doesn’t cushion the shoe.  While the sneakers didn’t exactly feel like they were
injected with gravity-defying Flubber, there was something
different about them. Even though they weren’t especially light,
they felt light -- like floating on little trampolines.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Parks via Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bradford Wieners at 
 bwieners@bloomberg.net  