-- Merkel’s Lawmakers Say Greek Euro Exit Is Manageable as Party Leaders Meet
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-12T23:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/greek-euro-exit-weighed-by-german-lawmakers.html
Lawmakers from Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s party are stepping up pressure on Greece as it
struggles to meet the terms of its second bailout, saying that a
Greek exit from the euro region would be manageable.  The comments by senior members of Merkel’s  Christian
Democratic Union , made before a meeting of the CDU leadership
that begins today, keep the focus on the Greek government as it
strives to reach a debt-swap deal with private creditors that
Merkel has said must be struck to win more aid. They are also a
challenge to the chancellor’s public stance as she steers
European efforts to keep the 17-member single euro area intact.  Such “threats” should be taken seriously, said Moritz Schularick, an economy professor at the John F Kennedy Institute
of Berlin’s Free University. “The costs of rescuing the euro
are so outrageous it’s no surprise that Merkel’s lawmakers are
beating the drum on what’s at stake,” he said by phone. “At
some point, a euro exit may become a real option. That wasn’t
the case before.”  Michael Meister and  Michael Fuchs , both Christian
Democratic Union deputy parliamentary caucus leaders, called
into question Greece’s future in the  euro zone  in separate
interviews, saying that crisis-fighting bulwarks introduced
since Greece tapped aid in 2010 have made contagion
“significantly” less likely.  System ‘Shock Wave’  “The whole reason why we jumped into action wasn’t
necessarily out of sympathy with Greece, but rather because we
said that there could be a shock wave to the financial system,”
Meister, the CDU parliamentary finance spokesman, said yesterday
by phone. “I think the scale of the threat from Greece has
diminished.”  That marks a contrast in tone from Merkel, who said at a
joint press conference on Jan. 9 with French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that they would ensure no country leaves the euro. At
the same time, both leaders urged Greece to finish negotiations
on the debt writedown with creditors as soon as possible, saying
that the next aid tranche wouldn’t be paid without a resolution.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  and Finance Minister
Evangelos Venizelos are due to meet again in  Athens  today with
 Charles Dallara , the managing director of the Washington-based
 Institute of International Finance , as talks on the debt swap
enter their final stages, the Greek government said.  The IIF, which represents banks that hold Greek debt, said
in an e-mailed statement after yesterday’s meeting in Athens
that “some key areas remain unresolved,” and warned that “time
for reaching an agreement is running short.”  No Option  Greece  will have no other option than to exit the euro area
as it struggles under a mountain of debt, unable to regain its
competitiveness without having its own currency to devalue, said
Fuchs, the CDU’s parliamentary economy spokesman.  For Greece, “the problem is not whether they are capable
of paying their loans -- they will not, not at all, never,”
Fuchs said by phone from his Berlin office on Jan. 11. Greece is
still a “special case” and the other 16 euro members will
resolve their debt problems and retain the currency, he said.  Fuchs dismissed the prospect that letting Greece go would
trigger speculative attacks against indebted countries such as
Spain or  Italy . Italy is a “rich” country and banks would be
able to withstand any contagion effect, said Fuchs. Talk of
contagion from Greece would be “right if we’re talking about
two years ago.”  The comments by Meister and Fuchs “are likely aimed at
putting pressure on Greece to redouble its efforts to fulfil its
pledges at a critical moment in the country’s efforts to secure
new aid, and remind the government of the possible consequences
of not doing so,” Thomas Costerg, an economist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  London , said by phone.  “This kind of brinkmanship is dangerous” since “it’s
neither in the interests of  Germany  nor Greece to allow a euro
exit,” he said. “The situation in markets is extremely fragile
and the lawmakers underplay the risks of contagion.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  