-- Greece Euro Exit Less Risky Now, Two Merkel Lawmakers Say
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-01-12T16:37:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/greece-will-have-to-quit-euro-german-lawmaker-says-in-challenge-to-merkel.html
A Greek exit from the euro would
pose a “significantly smaller” risk of contagion to the rest
of the currency area than two years ago before  Greece  asked for
aid, two lawmakers from Chancellor Angela Merkel’s party said.  “The whole reason why we jumped into action wasn’t
necessarily out of sympathy with Greece, but rather because we
said that there could be a shockwave to the financial system,”
Michael Meister, deputy parliamentary caucus leader for Merkel’s
 Christian Democratic Union , said in a phone interview today. “I
think the scale of the threat from Greece has diminished.”  Meister’s comments are the second time in as many days a
senior CDU lawmaker called into question Greece’s future in the
 euro zone , potentially undermining Merkel as she leads  Europe ’s
efforts to keep the 17-member euro area intact. With the debt
crisis now in its third year, Merkel will join CDU lawmakers at
a two-day meeting beginning tomorrow in the northern German port
city of Kiel for policy talks focused on the economy.  Greece will have to exit the euro area as it struggles
under a mountain of debt, unable to regain its competitiveness
without having its own currency to devalue,  Michael Fuchs ,
another deputy CDU floor leader, said in an interview yesterday.  For Greece, “the problem is not whether they are capable
of paying their loans -- they will not, not at all, never,”
Fuchs said by phone from his Berlin office. Greece is still a
“special case” and the other 16 euro members will resolve
their debt problems and retain the currency, he said.  ‘Rich’  Italy   Fuchs dismissed the prospect that letting Greece go would
trigger speculative attacks against indebted countries such as
Spain or Italy. Italy is a “rich” country and banks would be
able to withstand any contagion effect, said Fuchs, who also
coordinates economic policy for the CDU caucus in the lower
house of parliament, or Bundestag. Talk of contagion from Greece
would be “right if we’re talking about two years ago.”  The comments by Merkel allies break a taboo of the CDU
leadership by airing sentiment that Greece must leave the euro
it can’t fulfill the terms for aid. Merkel’s Bavarian sister
party, the  Christian Social Union , last week reinforced its
position that member states unwilling or unable to commit to
necessary reforms should be given the chance to exit the euro
area.  Merkel said at a joint press conference Jan. 9 with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  that they would ensure no country
leaves the euro, while urging Greece to finish negotiations for
a debt writedown with creditors as soon as possible to win its
next tranche of aid.  ‘Special Case’  With Greece a “special case,” the crisis can be tamed if
the region’s other 16 states fulfill “conditionality” tied to
rescue proposals, which “means sustaining stringent budget
consolidation,” said Meister, who is the CDU’s parliamentary
finance spokesman.  Spain and Italy have shouldered “liquidity problems but
are fundamentally solvent,” he said. Italy sold 12 billion
euros ($15.3 billion) of Treasury bills today at a rate of 2.735
percent, the lowest paid on one-year debt at an auction since
June and less than half the 5.952 percent offered at the last
sale on Dec. 12.  “Greece is now really confronting the question of whether
it can gain control of this crisis situation,” with the help of
its euro-area partners, the European Commission and the
 International Monetary Fund , Meister said. “The effects of a
failure to succeed are significantly smaller today in my view
compared to what would have happened in the spring of 2010.”  Fuchs, who also contradicted Merkel’s support for a
financial-transaction tax among euro-area members, said his
prediction of a Greek exit from the single currency is a matter
of arithmetic.  Merkel too “is capable of calculation,” he said. “She
studied physics. And to study physics you need mathematics as
well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at  at
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  