-- Greece’s Bank Creditors Say Time Running Short for Debt Swap as Talks Drag
-- B y   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 2012-01-12T18:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/iif-says-time-running-short-key-debt-swap-issues-unresolved.html
Greece’s private creditors said time
for a debt-swap deal is running out after talks between
financial and government representatives in  Athens  failed to
yield an agreement to cut the country’s borrowing load.  “A range of issues were discussed and some key areas
remain unresolved,” the  Institute of International Finance ,
which represents banks that hold Greek debt, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “Discussions will continue in Athens tomorrow,
but time for reaching an agreement is running short.”  Greece believes a final outline on a deal could be reached
by the end of next week, a senior finance ministry official said
today, with a formal public offer made at the beginning of
February. He declined to be identified. The IIF has said its
goal is for the swap to implemented by the end of January.  The IIF’s  Charles Dallara  and  Jean Lemierre , co-chairs of
the steering committee, met today in Athens with Prime Minister
Lucas Papademos and Finance Minister Evangelos Venizelos, aiming
for a deal in which creditors would write down at least half of
the country’s debt in the euro area’s first large restructuring.
More than two months after the accord was announced, they still
need to agree on the coupon and maturity of the new bonds to
determine the total losses for investors.  The deal, hammered out by European Union leaders, Greek
officials and the nation’s creditors at an Oct. 26-27 summit,
called for bondholders to accept a 50 percent cut in the face
value of their Greek debt, with a goal of reducing  Greece ’s
borrowings to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  Final-Stage Talks  The  International Monetary Fund  has sought a lower coupon
than the range offered by investors to ensure Greece meets the
deficit targets amid a worsening economy. Failure to complete
the voluntary swap threatens to further undermine confidence in
the EU’s leadership during the crisis, as well as deter
investors from  Asia  and the U.S. from buying  Europe ’s debt.  Greek Deputy Finance Minister Filippos Sachinidis said
today that Greece could need additional international funding if
there isn’t full participation of private creditors in a debt
swap. Analysts have said some  hedge funds  holding Greek debt may
resist the debt swap, hoping for better returns from triggering
credit-default swaps, which may harm banks.  “It’s an issue between Greece and its creditors,” who
will need to reach a deal, IMF spokesman Gerry Rice said at a
briefing in  Washington  today. “Once they come to a formal
agreement, the fund will evaluate whether it’s consistent with
debt sustainability targets.”  Merkel, Sarkozy  The IIF said “it is essential” to finalize the voluntary
agreement that support be given by all official parties in the
days ahead. German Chancellor  Angela Merkel , who met with French
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  earlier this week, said at the time
the debt restructuring needs to be completed soon to enable
Greece to receive its next tranche of aid.  “The second Greek program, including the debt
restructuring, has to be carried out quickly now because
otherwise it won’t be possible to pay out the next tranche for
Greece,” Merkel said on Jan. 9. Greece “really has to
implement the commitments made to the troika” of the IMF, the
European Commission and the  European Central Bank , she said.  ECB Vice-President Vitor Constancio separately today said
the central bank’s view on involving private bondholders in the
Greek bailout hasn’t changed, and that the central bank’s own
debt holdings won’t be involved in such a swap.  “The stance is the same as what it was before,” he said
at a press conference in  Frankfurt  today. “PSI is by definition
private-sector and we aren’t involved in those negotiations.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  