-- Lilly’s $4.5 Million Zyprexa Agreement With Health Providers Wins Approval
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-01-12T16:57:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/lilly-s-4-5-million-zyprexa-agreement-with-health-providers-wins-approval.html
Eli Lilly & Co.  won approval of a
$4.5 million settlement with five union health funds and an
insurer that alleged improper marketing of its best-selling
medication Zyprexa raised their costs.  U.S. District Judge Jack Weinstein in Brooklyn,  New York ,
approved the settlement at a hearing today. The so-called third-
party payors claimed Indianapolis-based Eli Lilly’s marketing of
Zyprexa, a schizophrenia treatment, caused them to pay more for
the drug than what it was worth. A plaintiffs’ expert had
estimated damages in the case as high as $7.7 billion, according
to a 2010 appeals-court decision.  The U.S. appeals court in New York in September 2010
reversed Weinstein’s 2008 ruling that granted class-action
status to third-party payors, forcing them to carry on with the
litigation individually. The appeals court found that the link
between marketing Zyprexa to doctors and the injury claimed by
the payors was “attenuated.”  “It appears to be fair and reasonable,” Weinstein said
about the settlement today. “The class members of the
previously certified class have been adequately consulted and
protected.”  “This settlement represents a positive outcome for  Eli
Lilly , and allows us to return our focus to the patients and
health-care professionals who rely on our medications,” Eli
Lilly spokeswoman Keri McGrath Happe said in an e-mail.  Health Funds  The plaintiffs include the New York-based United Federation
of Teachers Health and Welfare Fund; Mid-West National Life
Insurance Co. of  Tennessee ; and the Sergeants Benevolent
Association Health and Welfare Fund, which represents current
and retired New York City Police sergeants and their families.  At a Dec. 19 hearing, Thomas Sobol, a lawyer for the
benefit providers, told Weinstein he conducted a search and
found no others beyond the six entities.  “I can represent to the court that all of the clients
assent to the resolution,” Sobol, a partner at Hagens Berman
Sobol Shapiro LLP in  Boston , told Weinstein today. Anthony Vale,
a partner at Pepper Hamilton LLP in Philadelphia, represented
Eli Lilly.  Lost Patent  Zyprexa had $5.03 billion in sales in 2010. Sales of the
drug are expected to decline by more than $3 billion this year,
Eli Lilly said Jan. 5, as it lost its patent. Zyprexa is
approved by the  U.S. Food and Drug Administration  to treat
schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.  The plaintiffs said Lilly’s allegedly excessive claims
about Zyprexa’s usefulness compared with similar drugs and about
its safety violated the federal Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act.  The case is In re: Zyprexa Products Liability Litigation,
04-md-1596, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
( Brooklyn ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in Brooklyn, New York, federal court at
   tweidlich@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 