-- IMF Says Debt Swap Agreement Is Between Greece and Creditors
-- B y   M e e r a   L o u i s   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-01-12T16:29:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/imf-says-debt-swap-agreement-is-between-greece-and-creditors.html
Greece  and its creditors will have
to come to an agreement on a debt swap involving private sector
lenders taking a 50 percent nominal loss on holdings of Greek
debt, an  International Monetary Fund  spokesman said.  “It’s an issue between Greece and its creditors,” Gerry
Rice, an IMF spokesman, said at a briefing in  Washington  today.
“Once they come to a formal agreement, the fund will evaluate
whether it’s consistent with debt sustainability targets.”  The deal, hammered out by European Union leaders, Greek
officials and the nation’s creditors on Oct. 27, called for
bondholders to accept a 50 percent cut in the face value of
their Greek debt, with a goal of reducing the country’s
borrowings to 120 percent of gross domestic product by 2020.  Creditors and authorities still need to agree on the coupon
and maturity of the new bonds to determine the total losses
investors would suffer. Failure to complete the voluntary swap
threatens to further undermine confidence in the EU’s crisis
leadership and deter investors from buying  Europe ’s debt.  An IMF mission will begin on Jan. 17 in Greece to discuss
recent economic developments and the adjustment program, Rice
said. “Once they come to a formal agreement the fund will
evaluate whether it’s consistent with debt sustainability
targets,” he said, adding that the IMF has attended some of the
debt swap meetings as an observer.  The IMF’s Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  and Hungary’s
envoy Tamas Fellegi will hold informal discussions in Washington
today, the IMF said.  “These are not negotiating discussions, this is not a
negotiation for the program, it’s an informal discussion,” Rice
told reporters.  He also said an IMF monitoring mission to  Italy  would take
place later this month “or very soon thereafter.”  An IMF team will start a visit in  Egypt  next week, Rice
said, to initiate “discussions on possible IMF support.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Meera Louis in Washington at 
 mlouis1@bloomberg.net 
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  