-- India Said to Seek Higher Dividend From State Companies to Narrow Deficit
-- B y   A n t o   A n t o n y   a n d   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y
-- 2012-01-13T05:20:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/india-said-to-demand-higher-dividend-payout-by-state-companies.html
India ’s government asked state-run
companies to pay higher dividends to help narrow the  budget
deficit  as slowing growth threatens to erode revenue, a  finance
ministry  official with direct knowledge of the matter said.  Ministry officials and the chiefs of state companies met in
New Delhi yesterday to discuss investment plans and their
ability to pay higher dividends, said the person, who asked not
to be identified, citing government policy.  Failure to raise money from stake sales is forcing Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  to explore other ways to fund the
government’s spending on roads, hospitals, ports and power
stations. He said Jan. 11 it will be “difficult” for the
government to achieve its fiscal deficit target. India’s gross
domestic product expanded 6.9 percent in the three months ended
Sept. 30, the slowest pace in more than two years.  “The government is resorting to temporary measures to get
control over the  budget deficit ,” said  Dharmakirti Joshi ,
Mumbai-based chief economist at Crisil Ltd., the local unit of
 Standard & Poor’s . “What India needs to do is take durable and
credible steps to cut the deficit.”  Joshi expects the budget deficit to widen to 5.5 percent of
the gross domestic product in the current financial year
compared with the budgeted target of 4.6 percent. India’s budget
deficit reached 85.6 percent of the annual target in the eight
months through November. The deficit was 3.53 trillion rupees
($69 billion) in the period, according to the Controller General
of Accounts.  Stocks Gain  D.S. Malik, spokesman for the finance ministry, wasn’t
available for comment in two calls made to his office.  “We plan to pay a higher dividend than last year after
consultations with the board,” said B.L. Bagra, chairman of
National Aluminium Co., who attended the meeting yesterday. The
government owns 87.2 percent of the company.  The Bombay Stock Exchange’s  BSE-PSU Index (BSETPSU)  has climbed 11
percent this year on speculation of higher dividend payments,
while the benchmark Sensitive Index has risen 4 percent.
National Aluminium gained 3.8 percent to 59 rupees at 10:09 a.m.
in Mumbai trading and  Coal India (COAL)  Ltd. rose 2.4 percent.  National Aluminium had 44.1 billion rupees ($857 million)
of cash as of Sept. 30, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Coal India, the world’s biggest producer of the fuel, had
550 billion rupees of cash as of Sept. 30. It plans to use the
money to increase output and pay more dividend, Chairman Nirmal Chandra Jha said on Sept. 22.  Slowing economic growth is hurting revenue. Tax receipts
rose 48.2 percent in the April-November period, slower than the
55.5 percent gain a year earlier. The government on Dec. 30
increased its planned borrowings to a record 5.1 trillion rupees
in the year ending March, compared with the budgeted target of
4.17 trillion rupees.  Sensex Drop  Oil India Ltd. (OINL) , the second-biggest state-owned explorer,
announced Dec. 21 it would pay a mid-year dividend of 25 rupees
a share, its  highest payout  ever. NTPC Ltd., the nation’s
biggest electricity generator, will consider payment of a mid-
year dividend at a board meeting on Jan. 27, according to a
regulatory statement yesterday.  A 25 percent drop in the benchmark Sensitive Index last
year prompted Mukherjee to delay selling shares of Oil & Natural
Gas Corp., the country’s biggest energy explorer,  Steel
Authority of India Ltd.  and  Hindustan Copper Ltd. (HCP)  He has raised
11.44 billion rupees from asset sales this year, or 3 percent of
the target, according to data provided by the Department of
Disinvestment.  The government has also examined asking companies to buy
back its shares and create a  fund manager  that will purchase the
state’s shares in companies.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net ;
Rakteem Katakey in New Delhi at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  