-- India Industrial Output Rebounds, Giving Central Bank Scope to Hold Rates
-- B y   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2012-01-12T13:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/india-industrial-output-rebounds-giving-central-bank-scope-to-hold-rates.html
India ’s industrial production
rebounded from the worst month since March 2009, a sign consumer
demand is withstanding record interest-rate increases.  Output (INPIINDY)  at factories, utilities and mines increased 5.9
percent in November from a year earlier after a revised 4.7
percent decline in the previous month, the Central Statistical
Office said in a statement in  New Delhi  today. The median of 27
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 2.1 percent gain.  Manufacturing in India and China improved in December,
according to the Purchasing Managers’ Index, showing the world’s
fastest-growing major economies have so far been resilient to
 Europe ’s debt crisis. Today’s data gives scope for the  Reserve
Bank  of India to keep borrowing costs unchanged on Jan. 24 for a
second straight month to help fight inflation.  “There has been an upturn in  consumer spending ,” said
 Madan Sabnavis , chief economist at Mumbai-based ratings company
Credit Analysis & Research Ltd. “The RBI will keep rates on
hold until inflation is firmly down.”  Sabnavis expects the central bank to leave the  repurchase
rate  at 8.5 percent this month.  India’s rupee has gained 2.9 percent against the  U.S.
dollar  this year after being  Asia ’s worst-performing currency in
2011, helping cut import costs and ease inflationary pressures.
The BSE India Sensitive Index has climbed 3.8 percent since Jan.
1 after losing a quarter of its value last year.  Bond Yields  The yield on the 8.79 percent bonds due November 2021 rose
two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to 8.25 in Mumbai,
according to the central bank’s trading system. The rupee
advanced 0.6 percent to 51.5837 per dollar in Mumbai, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Sensitive Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.9
percent.  Manufacturing gained 6.6 percent in November from a year
earlier after a 5.7 percent drop in October, today’s report
showed. Electricity output climbed 14.6 percent, while mining
fell 4.4 percent.  India’s  inflation rate  exceeded 9 percent every month last
year, reducing purchasing power in a nation where the  World Bank 
estimates more than three-quarters of the people live on less
than $2 a day.  The Reserve Bank raised its repurchase rate by 375 basis
points since the start of 2010, the fastest round of increases
since the central bank was established in 1935, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Slowing Inflation  India’s benchmark wholesale-price inflation probably eased
to 7.40 percent in December from 9.11 percent in November,
according to the median of 23 estimates in another Bloomberg
News survey. India’s commerce ministry will unveil the data on
Jan. 16.  Kaushik Basu, chief economic adviser in the finance
ministry, said today that inflation in December may be less than
7.5 percent. The price gauge in January may fall to a little
over 7 percent, he said.  The food-price index in India fell for a second straight
week, declining 2.9 percent in the period ended Dec. 31 from a
year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement today.  India’s inflation reading would still be higher than the
levels in  Brazil ,  Russia  and  China , which including India make
up the so-called BRIC nations. Consumer prices rose 6.5 percent
in Brazil, 6.1 percent in Russia and 4.1 percent in China last
month.  “An inflation rate of more than 7 percent is a clear
deterrent against any rapid change in the monetary policy stance
in India,”  Siddhartha Sanyal , chief India economist at Barclays
Plc, said before the report. He expects the Reserve Bank to
start reducing rates in the second quarter this year.  China’s Scope  China has scope to loosen fiscal and monetary policy,
making it better placed than India to weather a global economic
slowdown, Stephen Roach, non-executive chairman of Morgan
Stanley Asia, said today.  China is bringing inflation under control and has a small
 budget deficit , Roach said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television. In contrast, India has a currency under pressure, an
“inflation problem” and a large fiscal shortfall, he said.  Higher borrowing costs in India are curbing demand in some
industries such as automobiles.  India’s automakers group this week cut its estimate for
annual local passenger-car sales, projecting deliveries may not
grow for the first time in nine years.  Industrial output strengthened in November as cement
production by companies including Ambuja Cements Ltd. increased
16.6 percent from a year earlier after stalling the previous
month, according to commerce ministry data  released  last month.
Steel production gained 5.1 percent.  The  Purchasing Managers ’ Index in India rose to 54.2 in
December, the most in six months, HSBC Holdings Plc and Markit
Economics said Jan. 2. In China, the index was at 50.3 from 49
in November, the Beijing-based logistics federation said Jan. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kartik Goyal in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  