-- Indonesia Holds Policy Rate at 6% as Currency Drop Revives Inflation Risk
-- B y   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g   a n d   W i d y a   U t a m i
-- 2012-01-12T09:37:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/indonesia-holds-policy-rate-at-6-as-currency-drop-revives-inflation-risk.html
Indonesia kept  interest rates 
unchanged for a second month, extending a pause in monetary
easing after a weaker rupiah and a government plan to contain
fuel subsidies threatened to spur inflation.  Bank Indonesia kept the  reference rate  at 6 percent,
Governor Darmin Nasution said at a press conference in Jakarta
today. The decision was predicted by 13 of 18 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey, with the rest expecting a quarter-
percentage-point cut.  “It will sustain some support for the Indonesian rupiah,
reducing the risk of imported inflation and keeping domestic
purchasing power high to support the overall economy,” said
 Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-Chinese Banking Corp. in
 Singapore . “We see all signs in place that the central bank will
not make any rate move in the immediate future.”  The rupiah slid more than 6 percent against the dollar in
the past six months after rate cuts in October and November made
 Indonesia  one of the first Asian nations to reduce borrowing
costs last year. While inflation has eased, policy makers need
to watch the impact of a possible increase in fuel prices as the
government may limit subsidies in 2012, central bank Deputy
Governor Hartadi Sarwono said this month.  “Bank Indonesia has been the region’s most aggressive
rate-cutter recently,” Gareth Leather, a London-based economist
at Capital Economics Ltd., said before the decision. “Recent
interest-rate cuts, which have contributed to further falls in
the Indonesian rupiah, could also lead to higher inflation by
increasing the cost of imported goods.”  Rate Cuts  The rupiah rose 0.4 percent to 9,160 a dollar after the
decision. It fell 6.4 percent in the past six months, making it
Asia’s worst performer after the  Indian rupee  and the South
Korean won. The benchmark Jakarta Composite index of stocks
closed little changed today.  Indonesia’s intervention efforts have been sufficient and
the important thing is it shouldn’t fight the trend alone,
Nasution said today.  Europe ’s debt woes have hurt Asian exports and damped
growth, pushing down regional currencies as investors sold
emerging-market assets. Asia-Pacific central bankers from
 Australia  to  Thailand  started easing monetary policy in recent
months to support growth, while others refrained from cutting
rates even as they halted tightening.  ‘Reasonable’ Rate  The Bank of  Korea  may keep its benchmark unchanged at 3.25
percent tomorrow, a Bloomberg survey showed, and  Sri Lanka ’s
central bank held borrowing costs for a 12th month yesterday.  Indonesia’s current benchmark rate would still be
“reasonable” should inflation range from 5.2 percent to 5.4
percent in 2012, Nasution said today. Bank loans growth of 25
percent to 26 percent was “normal,” he said. Commercial bank
loans may expand 23.6 percent in 2012, Deputy Governor Halim Alamsyah said, citing preliminary estimates from lenders.  “The rate is still in line with the achievement of
inflation targets in the future, the efforts to maintain the
stability of the financial system, and remains conducive to
supporting domestic economic expansion amid global turbulence,”
 Bank Indonesia  said in a statement today.  Nasution reduced Bank Indonesia’s  reference rate  by a
quarter point in October and half a percentage point in November
to 6 percent. Inflation slowed to 3.79 percent in December,
easing for a fourth straight month, and the central bank has
said the 2012 inflation target for prices to rise 3.5 percent to
5.5 percent will probably be met.  Watching Inflation  “I continue to think that there is a case for them to cut
rates further,” said  Euben Paracuelles , a Singapore-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. “Inflation remains below the
target and at least within early first-half should remain low.
At the same time the growth picture is showing some signs of
weakness.”  Still, Bank Indonesia remains mindful of inflation even as
it sees room to cut interest rates further if needed, Deputy
Governor Hartadi Sarwono said Jan. 5. The central bank said
today the government’s plan to limit the sale of subsidized fuel
may add as much as 0.94 percentage point to inflation this year.  The Indonesian government plans to limit the sale of
subsidized fuel from April 1 to cut energy costs, Energy and
Mineral Resources Minister Jero Wacik said Jan. 9.  Indonesia’s growth has so far weathered the faltering
global economy, helping the nation regain investment grade
rating for its sovereign debt at  Fitch Ratings  in December after
14 years.  Growth Forecast  Southeast  Asia ’s largest economy may have expanded 6.5
percent in 2011 and in the last quarter, Nasution said. Growth
this year may be 6.3 percent to 6.7 percent, he said.  Keeping borrowing costs low may help President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono boost investment in the economy as he targets
annual average GDP growth of 6.6 percent through the remainder
of his term ending in 2014.  The rate cuts in 2011 and the government’s push for land
legislation that will speed up works projects have helped
bolster prospects for Indonesian companies, said Harry Su, a
senior vice president and head of research at PT Bahana
Securities in Jakarta.  “After BI cut rates by a total 0.75 percentage point last
year, banking stocks became more attractive, plus the movement
of infrastructure projects will spur demand for investment
loans,” Su said before today’s decision. Stocks that may gain
include PT Jasa Marga, Indonesia’s largest toll-road operator,
PT Wijaya Karya, a state-owned construction company, PT Bank
Negara Indonesia and PT Bank Rakyat Indonesia, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net ;
Widya Utami in Jakarta at 
 wutami@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  