-- Infosys Cuts Dollar Sales Forecast, Citing Global Economy Outlook, Europe
-- B y   K e t a k i   G o k h a l e
-- 2012-01-12T11:27:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/infosys-cuts-dollar-sales-forecast-on-weaker-economic-growth-in-europe.html
Infosys Ltd. (INFO) ,  India ’s second-largest
software exporter, cut its full-year sales forecast in dollar
terms for a second time because of weaker economic growth in
markets including  Europe . The stock slumped.  Sales in the year ending March 31 will range from $7.029
billion to $7.033 billion, Bangalore-based Infosys said today.
That compares with the $7.08 billion to $7.2 billion it
projected in October.  The  shares  fell the most in nine months in Mumbai trading
after the forecast cut at Infosys, which  relies  on Europe and
North America for more than 80 percent of revenue. Customers
haven’t yet finalized their information technology budgets for
the year and indications are for flat or reduced spending, Chief
Executive Officer S.D. Shibulal told reporters today.  “Clearly, the business environment seems to be quite
challenging” for IT-services providers, said  Manish Sonthalia ,
who manages $250 million in equities at Mumbai-based Motilal
Oswal Asset Management Co. “That does not give too much
confidence from a stock market point of view.”  Infosys declined 8.4 percent to 2,588.25 rupees at the
close in Mumbai, the stock’s biggest drop since April 15. The
stock was the biggest contributor to the benchmark  Sensitive (SENSEX) 
index’s 0.9 percent decline and the  second-worst performer  on
the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  European Crisis  “The global economy, driven by slower growth in developed
markets coupled with the European crisis, could impact the
growth of the IT industry,” Shibulal said in a statement.  Faltering global economic growth would likely limit
information technology budgets this year, according to Gartner
Inc. Worldwide spending on IT services will increase at a slower
pace of 3.1 percent to $874 billion this year, after climbing
6.9 percent in 2011,  Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner said
Jan. 5.  The euro area is “entering a phase of stagnation, even
recession,” European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said
yesterday. “We can’t say how long this will last.”  Infosys, which designs software programs, maintains
computers and provides IT and outsourcing services for clients
including BT Group Plc, said sales in the fourth quarter may
range between $1.806 billion and $1.810 billion.  ‘Very Cautious’  “Customers are very cautious, even if they have a budget,
they don’t spend,” Chief Financial Officer V. Balakrishnan
said. “We believe that cautiousness will remain for some time.
The European recovery is not in sight.”  Infosys, which  derived  64 percent of its revenue from  North
America  and 23 percent from Europe last quarter, added 49
clients in the three months for a total of 665 customers.  The company’s continued investment in Europe, including
France and  Germany , is starting to yield results, Shibulal said.
Infosys won five “large” orders in the quarter, including two
$500 million contracts from the region, he said.  Third-quarter earnings beat analysts’ estimates as the
rupee’s decline boosted the value of repatriated earnings.  Net income  rose 33 percent to 23.7 billion rupees ($458
million) in the three months ended Dec. 31, surpassing the 22.8
billion-rupee median of 44 analyst  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 31 percent to 93 billion rupees,
exceeding the 91.7 billion-rupee median of 48 estimates.  “They beat some estimates because of forex, not because of
improvements in their core business,” said Pralay Kumar Das, an
analyst at Elara Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “What the market
looks at though is the future.”  Rupee Sales Outlook  The company raised its outlook for sales in rupee terms.
Full-year revenue will range from 342.7 billion rupees to 342.9
billion rupees, higher than the October projection of 335
billion rupees to 340.9 billion rupees.  The rupee’s 7.7 percent decline against the dollar in the
three months ended Dec. 31 would have boosted margins at India’s
software exporters, said Pratik Gandhi, an analyst at IDBI
Capital Markets Services Ltd. in Mumbai.  Shares of other Indian software exporters also fell.  Tata
Consultancy Services Ltd. (TCS) , the market leader, dropped 4.2
percent to 1,089.50 rupees, and  Wipro Ltd. (WPRO)  lost 2.5 percent.  “There are delays in decision making,” Shibulal said.
“Larger deals are being scrutinized more. Nice-to-have is put
on hold. It has marginally worsened since November.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ketaki Gokhale in Mumbai at 
 kgokhale@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  