-- November Inventories in U.S. Rise 0.3%, in Line With Sales
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-12T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/inventories-in-u-s-rose-in-november-for-second-month-amid-holiday-demand.html
Inventories in the U.S. rose in
November for a second month as companies worked to bring
stockpiles in line with a pickup in demand at the start of the
 holiday shopping season .  The 0.3 percent gain followed a 0.8 percent rise in
 stockpiles  a month earlier, the Commerce Department said today in
Washington. The increase compared with a 0.4 percent median
projection in a Bloomberg News survey. Sales also climbed 0.3
percent in November.  As spending perked up early in the holiday shopping season,
companies began to rebuild stockpiles they had drawn down in the
third quarter. Another report today showed retail sales cooled in
December, indicating demand may ease at the start of this year.  “Inventories are increasing after a drought,”  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto,
said before the report. “After pulling back because of caution
on the European turmoil, U.S. companies are now increasing
inventories, given that  consumer spending ” picked up at the
start of the fourth quarter.  Inventory estimates ranged from no change to a 0.8 percent
rise in the Bloomberg survey of 44 economists.  Sales at retailers rose at a slower pace last month, another
Commerce Department report showed today. The 0.1 percent gain in
purchases was held down by declines at department stores,
electronics and gasoline. Stores cut prices to lure customers
looking for holiday gifts, depressing the value of sales.  Retailer Inventories  Retailers’ stockpiles in November, the only part of today’s
business inventories report not previously released, rose 0.3
percent as sales increased 0.4 percent. Stores may have boosted
orders as the holiday shopping season began.  New York-based luxury retailer  Saks Inc. (SKS)  is among chains
striving to keep the volume of unsold merchandise expanding at
about the same pace as sales.  “Were going to grow inventories a little bit, but I hope to
keep them in line with our sales growth,” Stephen Sadove,
chairman and chief executive officer of Saks, said in a Jan. 10
interview on Bloomberg Television. “I don’t think that now is
the time to really aggressively expand the inventory position.”  Gross domestic product climbed at a 1.8 percent annual rate
from July through September, Commerce Department figures showed
last month. Inventories were cut at a $2 billion annual rate,
subtracting 1.35 percentage points from growth. It was the first
time stockpiles were trimmed since the last three months of 2009.  Factory inventories , which account for almost 40 percent of
total stockpiles, rose 0.5 percent in November, the Commerce
Department said Jan. 4. Another 30 percent of all inventories,
those held by  wholesalers , rose 0.1 percent during the month,
figures showed Jan. 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  