-- Iran Oil Export Sanctions to Affect South Korea’s Economy, Minister Says
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   S u s a n   L i
-- 2012-01-12T04:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/iran-oil-export-sanctions-to-affect-south-korea-s-economy-minister-says.html
South Korea ’s economy will probably
be affected by increasing sanctions on Iranian oil exports and
the country needs to diversify its oil suppliers, the country’s
vice finance minister said today.  “We import 10 percent of the oil from Iran so it will be
some impact,” Shin Je Yoon said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today.  U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is pressing
Asian nations this week to cut Iranian oil imports with visits
to  China  and  Japan . Iran is South Korea’s fifth-largest supplier
of crude and accounted for 9.4 percent of its total imports in
2011, the government said last week.  “I think 10 percent is not a small number,” Shin said.
“It’s important to diversify the import destination.”  South  Korea  is working with counterparts abroad and “it’s
too early to say” what the specific approach will be on Iran
imports, he said.  The Bank of Korea forecasts that the country’s economic
growth will slow to 3.7 percent in 2012 from 3.8 percent in
2011.  Consumer prices  rose 4.2 percent from a year earlier last
month, exceeding the central bank’s 4 percent target.  Increased government spending ahead of parliamentary and
national elections this year will make it harder for policy
makers to cut rates to spur growth, according to Samsung
Securities Co.  ‘Very Sound’  South Korea’s economy is “very sound” and while the
elections could pose some risks to growth, the most significant
factors are the possibility of a global recession and the
strength of China’s economy, Shin said.  South Korea’s Kospi Index increased 0.2 percent at 1:14
p.m. in Seoul, compared with The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP) ’s 0.4
percent drop. The won was little changed.  Geithner yesterday held talks with Chinese leaders
including Premier Wen Jiabao and Vice President  Xi Jinping  and
met today with Japan’s Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda and Finance
Minister  Jun Azumi .  South Korea will reinforce diplomatic efforts to minimize a
reduction of crude purchases from Iran, and plans to look for
alternative suppliers to secure a stable supply of oil,
according to a joint statement from the finance, energy and
other ministries on Jan. 5.  Expanded Sanctions  South Korea announced Dec. 16 that it will expand sanctions
against Iran and cautioned companies against importing
petrochemicals. Crude oil shipments aren’t affected by the Dec.
16 curbs on transactions with Iran.  The death of North Korean leader  Kim Jong Il  last month and
the transfer of power to his son, Kim Jong Un, doesn’t pose a
risk to South Korea’s growth unless there is a political
upheaval, Shin said.  The most “probable scenario is that Kim Jong Un maintains
the North Korean regime with the help of relatives and the
existing people,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eunkyung Seo in  Seoul  at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  