-- Iraq Deplores ‘Currency Attack’ as Dollars Flow to Syria, Iran
-- B y   K h a l i d   A l - A n s a r y   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 2012-01-12T08:22:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/iraq-deplores-currency-attack-as-dollars-flow-to-syria-iran.html
Iraq’s central bank said it’s under
a “currency attack” as traders buy U.S. dollars in daily
auctions and resell them on the black market in  Syria  and  Iran ,
which face hard currency shortages due to sanctions.  Demand for the greenback at the central bank auctions has
risen since November to about $200 million to $300 million a
day, compared with about $160 million in the prior 12 months,
the deputy central bank governor, Mudher Salih, said in an
interview in Baghdad Jan. 10.  “Now we are checking the applications to buy dollars from
the auctions more closely. We are afraid that some of it may be
related to  money laundering ,” Salih said. “We are now under a
currency attack because of the regional situation.”  Iranians are having trouble accessing foreign currencies
due to the rial’s plunge, U.S. Treasury Undersecretary  David Cohen  said Dec. 1. The Iranian currency weakened this year after
the U.S. and allies prepared for further sanctions that may
include an oil embargo, the state-run Mehr news agency reported
on Jan. 2. The allies accuse Iran of a covert plan to build
nuclear weapons, a charge Iran’s government denies.  Syria, Iran’s regional ally, has also come under greater
U.S., European and some Arab sanctions over a violent crackdown
on pro-reform protests that began early last year. A European
oil embargo is affecting Syria’s revenues and giving the state
far less access to foreign exchange, David Butter, regional head
for the  Middle East  at the Economist Intelligence Unit, said
Dec. 14.  Pressure on Reserves  Rising demand for dollars “is affecting our dollar-sale
auction,” Salih said. “This isn’t in the interest of the Iraqi
economy and it will suck foreign currency reserves.” Foreign
exchange reserves in  Iraq , holder of the world’s fifth-largest
crude deposits, touched $60 billion this year, the most in its
history, he said.  At its Jan. 11 auction, the central bank sold $252.25
million in notes at a fixed selling price of 1,170 Iraqi dinars
for each U.S. dollar, data on its  website  show. “A lot of money
in dollars and also deposits which are supposed to be invested
in Iraq are being exchanged to U.S. dollars to fund the trade in
neighboring countries,” Salih said.  Iraq’s revenue is on the rise after crude oil production
jumped to the highest in at least 20 years, or more than 3
million barrels a day, deputy prime minister for energy affairs
Hussain Al Shahristani said last month. The country, which
unveiled a 2012 federal spending plan of almost $100 billion in
December, is seeking foreign investment and expertise boost
energy exports and rebuild an economy and infrastructure
destroyed by conflict, economic sanctions and sabotage.  Lowering Deficit  The country will reduce its  budget deficit  to 11 percent of
economic output this year from 14 percent in 2011, Salih said.
In 2013, the central bank will cut three digits from the
currency, reversing a policy it introduced in the 1980s to
address the government’s budget deficit.  The yield on the country’s  six-month treasury bills  fell
110 basis points, or 1.1 percentage points, to 8.2 percent at
the last auction on Dec. 13, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That was the lowest yield since August 2010.  Iraq plans to reduce international debt to $38 billion in
2012 from $40 billion last year and $135 billion in 2003, Salih
said. It owes between $23 billion and $25 billion of this total
to Persian Gulf countries  Saudi Arabia ,  Kuwait  and Qatar, he
said, adding  Algeria  had written off a debt two months ago.  With yields above 8 percent, Iraq has no plan to issue
sovereign bonds this year, the deputy governor said. Iraq last
sold $2.7 billion of bonds six years ago to restructure debt
accumulated during the era of former President  Saddam Hussein ,
who was ousted from power by a U.S.-led military invasion in
2003. The last U.S. combat troops left Iraq in December.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Dubai at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  