-- Ireland’s Enda Kenny ‘Absolutely’ Rules Out Second Bailout
-- B y   C o l m   H e a t l e y
-- 2012-01-12T12:23:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/ireland-s-enda-kenny-absolutely-rules-out-second-bailout.html
Ireland’s Prime Minister Enda Kenny
“absolutely” ruled out a second bailout for the country,
saying the government aims for a “tentative” return to
international bond markets within a year.  “I don’t share that view at all,” he said in a speech at
Thomson Reuters Corp. in  London  today, when asked about the
possibility of the country needing another aid package.  Ireland sought a 67.5 billion euro ($88.5 billion)
international rescue in 2010, amid concern that the nation’s
banking woes would push it into bankruptcy. While the government
is fully funded through 2013, Finance Minister  Michael Noonan 
has said the state may try to test markets in the second half of
2012, after a two-year hiatus.  “We would like to see a tentative return to markets,”
within a year, Kenny said, adding that imposing losses on
holders of Irish bonds would be “self-defeating” for the
country. “Why would investors want to invest in a country if
there were writedowns.”  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the nation’s
benchmark, yielded 7.92 percent today, compared with 8.15
percent at the start of November.  Ireland pays interest of about 3.8 percent on the 45
billion-euro bailout from its European benefactors and about 4.7
percent for the portion of the 22.5 billion-euro loan package it
borrowed so far from the  International Monetary Fund .  Citigroup Inc. Chief Economist Willem Buiter said on Jan. 9
Ireland should negotiate a stand-by second bailout plan in the
event it can’t re-access markets by the end of its current
program on favorable terms, according to Dublin-based
broadcaster RTE.  Kenny said the country’s needs “shouldn’t be lost sight
of,” because it is meeting its bailout targets.  “We have worked very hard as a government,” to meet the
targets, Kenny said.  “Ireland is measuring up on all of these
achievements. We still need consistent support from  Europe . I’m
glad they appreciate the scale of the challenge we face.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Colm Heatley in Belfast at 
 cheatley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  