-- Israel Inflation Bets Rise to One-Month High on Climbing Prices
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-01-12T13:39:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/israel-inflation-bets-rise-to-one-month-high-on-climbing-prices.html
Israeli inflation expectations rose
to the highest level in almost a month amid investor bets
electricity and housing costs will push consumer prices higher.  The  two-year break-even rate , the rate difference between
inflation-linked bonds and fixed-rate government bonds of
similar maturity, gained one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point to 202 at 2:12 p.m. in Tel Aviv. That implies an average
annual inflation rate of 2.02 percent. The level is the highest
since Dec. 15, before a report that day showed November
inflation eased to its slowest pace in a year.  Israeli consumer prices likely rose 0.1 percent last month
after declining 0.1 percent in November, according to the median
estimate of 11 economists in a Bloomberg  survey . The statistics
bureau is scheduled to release last month’s data on Jan. 15.  “We recommend investors to buy shorter-term CPI bonds
instead of shorter-term non-linked notes as prices over the next
year are set to increase above expectations and interest rate
bets are already priced in,” said Shuki Arditi, a bond trader
at Leader  Capital Markets  Ltd. in Tel Aviv. “A rise in
electricity and rental prices are expected to increase
inflationary pressure over the next year.”  Leader Capital Markets raised its inflation forecast for
this year to 2.7 percent from 2.5 percent on expectations that
electricity costs will increase 9 percent in February. The yield
on the 5 percent bonds due March 2013 rose two basis points to
2.47 percent.  The yield on the 5.5 percent notes due January 2022 fell
for a fourth day, dropping one basis point to 4.49 percent. The
country’s trade deficit narrowed in December as imports declined
and exports rose. The deficit, excluding polished diamonds,
ships and aircraft, narrowed to a seasonally adjusted $1.25
billion, from a revised $1.54 billion the previous month, the
statistics bureau said today. For the year, the deficit rose 87
percent to $15.9 billion.  Growth Forecast  The  Bank of Israel  cut its estimate for economic growth
this year to 2.8 percent from 3.2 percent on Dec. 26 citing an
“expected slowdown in the growth of all components of demand,”
as the debt crisis in  Europe  weighs on the global economy. The
central bank on Dec. 26 left its main lending rate unchanged at
2.75 percent, after reducing it twice in three months, saying it
wants to be able to react to future developments.  Two-year  interest-rate swaps , an indicator of investor
expectations for rates over the period, fell for a second day,
declining three basis points to 2.47 percent.  The shekel strengthened 0.4 percent to 3.8343 a dollar. The
 Tel Aviv Bond 40 Index , which measures inflation-linked and
fixed-rate corporate bonds, gained for a sixth day, advancing
0.2 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in  Tel Aviv  at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  