-- Italian Industrial Production Unexpectedly Rises
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-12T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/italian-industrial-production-unexpectedly-rises.html
Italian industrial production
unexpectedly increased in November even as the government
announced additional austerity measures that further eroded
consumer demand.  Output (ITPRSANM)  rose 0.3 percent from October, when it declined 0.9
percent, national statistics office  Istat  said today in  Rome .
Economists had expected a 0.2 percent drop, the median of 17
estimates in a  Bloomberg News survey  showed. Output decreased
4.1 percent from a year earlier on a workday-adjusted basis.  Prime Minister  Mario Monti , the unelected premier who took
over after Silvio Berlusconi’s resignation and pushed through
budget cuts demanded by the European Union, is now focusing on a
plan to spur the economy. Monti says boosting Italian growth,
which has trailed the euro-area average for more than a decade,
is the best way to trim the region’s second-biggest debt.  Monti has pledged to present his growth plan at a meeting
of EU finance chiefs on Jan. 23. Italy’s $2.3 trillion economy
will contract between 0.4 percent and 0.5 percent this year and
remain flat in 2013, Deputy Finance Minister  Vittorio Grilli 
said on Dec. 4.  The increase in production in November was led by
chemicals, pharmaceuticals, food beverages and tobacco, Istat
said. The yield on  Italy ’s 10-year bond was down 19 basis points
at 6.79 percent at 9:44 a.m. Rome time before a planned auction
of as much as 12 billion euros ($15 billion) of Italian bills.  Italian business confidence fell to the lowest in two years
in December. Fiat SpA, Italy’s biggest manufacturer, suffered a
9.2 percent drop in its European car sales in November and the
company has announced cuts in production-capacity to offset the
slumping demand for its vehicles.  Monti pushed through a 30 billion-euro ($38 billion) plan
of austerity and growth measures last month aimed at meeting the
goal of a balanced budget in 2013 and stemming surging borrowing
costs. The plan includes a revamp of the pension system, a tax
on main properties abolished by the previous government, higher
levies on  luxury goods  such as yachts and sports cars, and tax
breaks for companies that hire woman and young workers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in Rome at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  