-- J&J Whistle-Blower Jones Says He Was Fired After Payment Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s ,   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-01-13T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/j-j-whistle-blower-recounts-firing-after-finding-payments.html
A whistle-blower who sued  Johnson &
Johnson  over the marketing of its antipsychotic Risperdal told a
jury he was fired after probing company payments to a top
pharmacist in Pennsylvania’s government who hid the money.  Allen Jones testified yesterday in state court in Austin,
Texas, that he was an investigator in the Pennsylvania Office of
Inspector General in 2002 when he looked into an unregistered
bank account run by Steven Fiorello, the pharmacist. Fiorello
was on a Pennsylvania committee weighing whether to require
doctors to give priority to newer, more expensive drugs like
Risperdal in state-funded treatment of mental-health patients,
Jones said.  Jones, 57, said he found a $4,000 check from J&J’s Janssen
unit to Harrisburg State Hospital that was sent “to the
attention of” Fiorello. The check covered a Fiorello trip to
 New Orleans  to discuss Pennsylvania’s drug guidelines. Another
check for $1,766 to the hospital account was sent “in care of”
of Fiorello, Jones said. Fiorello controlled the account and
didn’t register it with the state, Jones said.  “The account was used to deposit money from drug
companies,” Jones said yesterday in the trial’s third day of
testimony. “There were real problems here. On many levels, the
account was improper.”  Janssen also paid $2,000 directly to Fiorello as an
honorarium for his speaking at a company-sponsored event in
2002, Jones said. Jones said he followed the money trail and
explored efforts by Janssen to promote, on a state-by-state
basis, Texas guidelines favoring drugs like Risperdal. The funds
sent to the hospital account helped pay travel expenses for
programs related to setting up the  Texas  guidelines in
Pennsylvania, he said.  Guidelines Adopted  The state adopted the guidelines that favored Risperdal in
2003, Jones said.  In 2004, Jones filed a whistle-blower lawsuit in Texas,
which the state later joined, claiming J&J defrauded the state
by overhyping Risperdal and overbilling its Medicaid program by
at least $579 million.  J&J denies any wrongdoing in the Texas case.  Fiorello, once the chief pharmacist for Pennsylvania’s
public welfare department, was convicted in December 2008 of
felony conflict-of-interest charges for taking payments from
drug companies, including Janssen and Pfizer Inc. He was
sentenced to 18 months of probation and fined $3,000. He also
paid more than $27,000 in civil fines after the  Pennsylvania 
Ethics Commission cited him.  Consulting Agreements  Jurors heard earlier that Steven Shon, a physician who
served as medical director of the Texas Department of Mental
Health and Mental Retardation, signed several consulting
agreements with Janssen. The company paid him $47,587 over
several years as he promoted the Texas Medication Algorithm
Project, or TMAP, guidelines around the U.S., including in
Pennsylvania. TMAP urged doctors to give preference to new
antipsychotics like Risperdal.  Jones said he interviewed Janssen employees in 2002, and
they told him they found no grant request for the payments of
$4,000 and $1,766, which was “a real red flag for me,” Jones
said. He also said Fiorello could not receive an honorarium
under state regulations.  “The receipt of an honorarium by a public employee who
acts in his official capacity is a felony,” Jones said.  He said Janssen employees said that company policy barred
giving honorariums to state employees.  “They said they were unaware of this check and they didn’t
know how it had happened,” Jones said.  ‘Whole Lot More’  Asked about the meaning of the payments that went to the
account, Jones said, “It meant that the state was going to be
spending a whole lot more money for antipsychotics.”  J&J, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , is the world’s
largest health-care products company.  Jones said his boss told him to ease off his probe. He said
he was told, “Stay away from the drug companies. This is a
personnel issue. Stay away from the drug companies, stay away
from TMAP.”  Jones said his boss said, “Drug companies write checks to
both sides of the aisle. Stay away from it.” His boss told him
that “morally and ethically I was correct, but politically,
this was dead.”  Later Removed  Jones said that later he was removed as the lead
investigator from the case, and he was “marginalized
completely.” He continued to pursue the case on his own time,
and spoke to the New York Times for a story that ran Feb. 1,
2004. He said he was fired for talking to the newspaper.  He sued in Texas in 2004. He could collect from 15 percent
to 25 percent of any recovery that Texas gets at the trial.
Jones said he also settled a freedom of speech civil rights
lawsuit and a retaliation suit with Pennsylvania. With the
settlement, he said he paid his debts, bought a truck, filled
his propane tanks and had $1,200 left.  On cross-examination, Jones said he sued in Texas before he
was fired after trying unsuccessfully in Pennsylvania to pursue
the case.  The case is Texas v. Janssen LP, D-1GV-04-001288, District
Court, Travis County, Texas (Austin).  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Voreacos in Austin at 
 dvoreacos@bloomberg.net ;
Margaret Cronin Fisk in  Detroit 
at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
at   jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 