-- Japan Builders Draw Sales With Quake-Resistant Features
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-01-13T06:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/japan-builders-tout-quake-resistant-features.html
Ken Saishoji, a 46-year-old Tokyo
real-estate agent, used to answer questions from potential
apartment buyers about the proximity to train stations and
prices. After the March 11 earthquake, that changed.  “The question almost 100 percent of the customers ask
first these days is how strong the ground and the structure of
the building is,” said Saishoji, who was in charge of selling
198 units in a 28-story building in Yokohama, south of Tokyo, at
broker  Nomura Real Estate Urban Net Co.   Mitsui Fudosan Co. (8801)  and  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , Japan’s two-
biggest developers, are adopting higher quake-absorbing methods
to reduce motion during temblors in buildings taller than 20
stories. For builders such  Nomura Real Estate Holdings Inc. (3231) ,
highlighting quake-resistant features has meant selling all
apartments at the Yokohama project at prices 14 percent higher
than average for the area.  “The disaster has changed the way people think,” Kamezo Nakai, president of Nomura Real Estate, which sells its
apartments through its own real-estate brokerage, said in an
interview. “Some may think that people will refrain from buying
homes after the quake, but it’s the opposite. People want to
move in to apartments they deem safe.”  Mitsui Fudosan rose 2.2 percent to 1,159 yen at the close
in Tokyo, while Mitsubishi Estate declined 0.4 percent to 1,155
yen. The  Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL)  climbed 0.7 percent, the most
in more than a week.  Avoiding Major Damage  Tokyo’s stringent building code, which includes rubber
bearings used as foundation so that seismic energy can shift
from structures, helped the city’s buildings avoid major damage
from the nation’s record magnitude-9 quake, though the temblor
turned landfill in the Tokyo Bay area into mud, shattering pipes
and disrupting gas, electricity and water supplies.  The quake struck 130 kilometers (81 miles) off the coast
northeast of Tokyo, triggering a tsunami and leaving almost
20,000 people dead or missing.  Contracted rates of high-rises in Tokyo, or the percentage
of apartments sold before completion, dropped to 66 percent in
November, declining below the 70 percent level needed for
builders to be profitable, and down from 88 percent a year
earlier, according to  Real Estate Economic Research Institute Co. 
data released Dec. 15. High-rises are defined by the Tokyo-based
research firm as buildings that are higher than 20 stories.  ‘Sense of Security’  Mitsui Fudosan,  Japan ’s biggest developer by sales, is
installing pipes with elasticity to minimize damage and will
store three-day electricity supply for buildings and warehouses,
it said in a Dec. 15 statement. Its 31-story Park Tower Umeda in
Osaka and the 43-story, 585-unit Park Tower Shinonome in Tokyo
will be the first projects where the new measures will be
implemented. The developments will be completed by early 2014.  “There is rising demand for a sense of security and safe
homes after the quake,” Takeru Hasegawa, a spokesman at Mitsui
Fudosan, said by phone. “We have strengthened disaster
prevention methods for all of our new projects from now on.”  The number of high-rises offered in  Tokyo  fell to 104 units,
the lowest in more than three years, in April, according to the
real estate institute. It recovered to 636 units in September,
still 20 percent lower than the 796 that were put up for sale in
February, a month prior to the quake. In November, it stood at
315 units, according to the latest data.  The supply of apartments in the city last year is estimated
at about half the 10-year average of more than 81,000, the
institute’s data show. It fell after lenders tightened loans
following the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008.  Limited Supply  Demand for properties in central Tokyo will remain high,
said  Masahiro Mochizuki , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG.  “Condo supply was about half of what it was before even
though demand remained the same; people who want to buy houses
didn’t just disappear,” Tokyo-based Mochizuki said. “The
limited supply and rising preference for central Tokyo
properties will help boost demand.”  Mitsubishi Estate’s 49-story Park House Harumi Towers,
which will be completed by November 2013, will have storage
rooms with emergency kits on each floor, as well as stocks of
water, food and other daily necessities, and a kitchen system
that will allow residents to prepare meals outdoors, it said in
separate statements.  Japan’s biggest developer by market value plans to increase
fuel reserves for power generators in its residential buildings
to last for about 24 hours from the previous estimate of eight
to 10 hours, said Ryuichiro Funo, a spokesman at Mitsubishi
Estate.  Changing Sales Pitch  “The sales pitch has changed: We demonstrate more as to
what we have done in preparation for the earthquake,” said Funo.  An 8-magnitude quake is estimated to strike every 118.8
years on average near Tokyo, the last one being in 1854,
government data showed. The chance of a major quake in the next
decade beneath greater Tokyo, home to 13.1 million people, has
doubled since the March tremor, geophysicist Ross Stein at the
 U.S. Geological Survey  has said.  The March quake triggered liquefaction in neighborhoods in
Tokyo Bay, which has about 24,955 hectares (61,665 acres) of
 reclaimed land , and where Mitsui Fudosan, Mitsubishi Estate and
Nomura Real Estate have residential projects. Liquefaction is a
phenomenon where soil loses its strength after violent shaking.  Apartments in the area are sought after for their views and
travel time of less than half an hour to central Tokyo, a city
with an  average commute  of 49 minutes, according to a survey by
national broadcaster NHK. Nomura Real Estate, Tokyo’s third-
largest developer, sold all 250 units in the first phase rollout
of its 600-unit complex in the Shinonome area in Tokyo Bay
within a day, according to the company.  “People’s preference to live in central Tokyo has
strengthened” after commuters were stranded as the city’s
subway system was shut immediately after the quake, said Tadashi
Matsuda, a researcher at the real estate institute. “If the
developers can emphasize the safety of their buildings, then
that’s positive for them amid rising interest of living in the
city.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  