-- Corn Purchases From Europe by Japan Double as Weak Currencies Boost Appeal
-- B y   A y a   T a k a d a
-- 2012-01-12T07:01:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/japan-doubles-europe-corn-purchases-as-mills-seek-cheaper-u-s-substitutes.html
Japan, the world’s largest corn
importer, doubled grain purchases from  Europe  in the past two
months, heading for a record volume from the region this year,
as local feed mills seek cheaper alternatives to U.S. supply.  Corn purchases by Japanese trading companies from the  Black
Sea region  including Ukraine, Romania and Hungary topped 1.5
million metric tons for shipments from November to March, said
 Nobuyuki Chino , president of Continental Rice Corp. in Tokyo.
Imports may increase further unless corn from Argentina and
Brazil, which normally compete with U.S. grain for sales to the
Asian market, becomes cheaper, he said in an interview.  Reduced exports from the U.S. may curb a recovery in
Chicago futures, which have rebounded 13 percent from the lowest
level in more than two months on Dec. 15.  Japan , which depends
almost all its corn on imports and sourced about 90 percent of
its needs in 2010 from the U.S., the biggest shipper, is
diversifying supply sources after a drought last year hurt the
American crop and drove annual prices to an all-time high.  “European shippers offered corn to Japanese buyers at
prices more than $20 a ton cheaper than the U.S. They are taking
advantage of depreciating currencies against the  U.S. dollar ,”
 Kazuhiko Saito , an analyst at commodity broker Fujitomi Co in
Tokyo, said today by phone.  Chino, who has traded grains for three decades and worked
for Continental Grain Co. of the U.S. before establishing his
company in 1999, declined to identify the Japanese trading
houses as the information is not public. The companies bought
800,000 tons of corn from Ukraine by November as the European
nation removed a tax on exports in October.  Euro Slump  European corn became more competitive against U.S. grains
as their currencies slumped amid the region’s sovereign-debt
crisis. European corn imports by Japan exceeding 1.5 million
tons would be the most ever, said Ippei Araki, an official at
the livestock production and feed division of the Ministry of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries.  Japan imported 10.8 million tons of corn for feed last
fiscal year, of which 9.5 million or 88 percent was from the
U.S., according to data from the ministry.  Argentina  was the
second-largest supplier with 690,000 tons, followed by Brazil
with 434,000 tons. The nation also imports about 4 million tons
of corn a year for food and other purposes.  Raw Materials   The euro was 0.4 percent from a 16-month low against the
dollar on speculation European Central Bank policy makers
meeting today won’t take steps to support growth even as reports
signal a struggling euro-area recovery.  The euro traded at $1.2715 as of 3:53 p.m. in Tokyo from
$1.2707 yesterday in  New York , when it slid to as low as $1.2662,
the weakest level since September 2010. Hungary’s forint fell to
a record low against the euro last week.  Japan’s livestock industry is increasing efforts to cut
raw-material costs as it struggles to recover from the March 11
earthquake and Fukushima nuclear disaster, which destroyed feed
plants and tainted beef and milk with radioactive cesium.  Corn futures for March delivery climbed 0.5 percent to
$6.545 a bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade. Corn, used mainly
to produce livestock feed and ethanol, gained 2.8 percent last
year, the third annual increase.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aya Takada in  Tokyo  
 atakada2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Richard Dobson  at 
 rdobson4@bloomberg.net  