-- Geithner Gets Japan’s Backing on Iran Oil Sanctions After Snub From China
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 2012-01-12T16:04:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/japan-considering-gradual-cut-in-iran-oil-imports-as-sanctions-calls-rise.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner ’s efforts to tighten economic sanctions on  Iran  over
its nuclear program won backing from Japan after China rejected
limiting oil imports from the country.  “We want to take concrete steps to reduce our share in an
orderly way as soon as possible,” Finance Minister  Jun Azumi 
said at a joint press conference in Tokyo yesterday with his
U.S. counterpart. “The world cannot tolerate nuclear
development.”  Geithner’s meetings were part of a trip to Asia’s two
largest economies aimed at building support for tighter Iranian
economic sanctions after international monitors detected an
acceleration in the nation’s nuclear development program. China,
which counts Iran as one of its top petroleum suppliers, snubbed
the U.S. this week, with a vice foreign minister saying his
nation “opposes imposing pressure and sanctions.”  Crude for February delivery climbed 49 cents yesterday, or
0.5 percent, to $101.36 a barrel in electronic trading on the
 New York  Mercantile Exchange as of 5:00 p.m. Tokyo time.  JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corp .,  Japan ’s biggest refiner, is
in talks with Saudi Arabia and other producers to replace crude
shipments in the event of an embargo, according to an official
who declined to be identified, citing company policy. JX buys
about 90,000 barrels of Iranian oil a day, the official said.  Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said the
government hasn’t made a final decision on cutting Iranian
imports, and that Azumi’s pledge “is just one of several
opinions.” Azumi later said he is seeking ways to make sure
sanctions on Iran don’t hurt the Japanese economy.  ‘Halfway Solution’  “Japan will try and seek a halfway solution where they’ll
try and limit imports from Iran and boost imports from other
Middle Eastern countries that are also U.S. allies,” said
Razeen Sally, a professor at the Lee Kuan Yew School of Public
Policy at the  National University  of  Singapore . Given its
military alliance with the U.S., Japan “is much more
susceptible to U.S. pressure than  China ,” he said.  The U.S. will send officials to Japan next week to discuss
how the Japanese government will implement its plans, NHK
Television quoted Geithner as saying in an interview. “We share
a sense of urgency,” he told NHK.  Asked about China, Geithner told NHK: “They have been
actually very cooperative with the international community with
this common objective because of course they share our interests
in trying to make sure Iran is compliant with its international
obligations.”  ‘Quite Supportive’  “They actually have been quite supportive in tangible
ways,” Geithner said.  “I heard additional evidence of their
intentions on that when I was there.”  The Obama administration’s “basic objective is to assure
that China is more fully integrated into the global economy and
financial system,” he said. The yuan’s exchange rate, which the
U.S. claims is undervalued, is “just one part” of a broader
agenda Chinese leaders are pursuing, he said.  On the International Monetary Fund’s role in helping
resolve the European debt crisis, Geithner said, “I think
you’ll see the world willing to see the IMF play a supportive
role. It’s done so already and it’s what the IMF exists to do.
But it can only be effective in that context in support of a
stronger European commitment to make sure they have in place a
monetary union that can work.”  Total Purchases  Japan, the world’s second biggest importer of Iran’s crude
after China, bought 1.09 million kiloliters, or about 6.85
million barrels, in November, or 6.4 percent of the country’s
total purchases for the month, according to trade ministry data.  “Any price spike would lead to a worsening of Japan’s
trade terms,” said  Azusa Kato , an economist at BNP Paribas in
 Tokyo . “If the price increase gets passed on to consumers, that
diminishes their disposable income; if it doesn’t get passed on
to consumers then it hurts corporate earnings.”  European Union foreign ministers are scheduled to decide at
a Jan. 23 meeting in Brussels whether to impose and how to phase
in an embargo on Iranian oil, which is designed to force Iran
back to the negotiating table over its nuclear program.  Iran has begun enriching uranium to as much as 20 percent
U-235 at the underground Fordo site near the city of Qom, the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  said in a Jan. 9
announcement. The site is monitored by IAEA inspectors to detect
any attempt to enrich uranium to the 90 percent level necessary
for a nuclear bomb.  Strait of Hormuz   Iranian Vice President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said Dec. 27
that his nation would block oil shipments through the Strait of
Hormuz if sanctions are imposed, the  Islamic Republic News
Agency  said. The Strait is a transit point for one-fifth of oil
traded worldwide.  Refiners in Asia, the destination for 65 percent of Iran’s
oil exports, are seeking alternative sources in the event of a
supply disruption from the world’s fourth-largest producer.  Even as China rebuffed American pressure, Premier  Wen Jiabao  is planning a trip to alternative oil providers. Wen will
visit  Saudi Arabia , the  United Arab Emirates  and Qatar from Jan.
14 to Jan. 19 and attend an international meeting on energy, the
foreign ministry said two days ago.  “Iran is one of China’s biggest petroleum suppliers,”
Vice Foreign Minister Zhai Jun told reporters in Beijing on Jan.
11. “China hopes that petroleum imports won’t be affected as
petroleum is needed for China’s development and for ensuring the
needs of its people.”  Biggest Beneficiary  China stands to be the biggest beneficiary of U.S. and
European plans for sanctions by taking advantage of the mounting
pressure to demand better terms on Iranian crude, analysts said.  “The sanctions against Iran strengthen the Chinese hand at
the negotiating table,” said  Michael Wittner , head of oil-
market research for Societe Generale SA in New York.  At the same time, the U.S. is bearing most of the cost of
patrols and surveillance in the Strait of Hormuz, through which
17 million barrels a day of crude are transported. China, the
No. 2 importer of oil after the U.S., enjoys protection for the
shipping lanes for free, retired Admiral Dennis Blair, a former
U.S. Director of National Intelligence, said in an interview.  South Korea ,  Asia ’s fourth-largest economy, announced Dec.
16 that it would expand sanctions against Iran and cautioned
companies against importing petrochemicals. Crude oil shipments
weren’t affected. The country added 99 Iranian groups and six
individuals to a list of people and organizations banned from
foreign-exchange transactions without central bank approval.  Iran is South Korea’s fifth-largest supplier of crude, with
a 9.4 percent share in 2011.  “Ten percent is not a small number -- it is important to
diversify” toward other providers, Vice Finance Minister Shin Je Yoon said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday.
South Korea is working with counterparts abroad, and “it’s too
early to say” what the specific approach will be on Iran
imports, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  