-- Jets Grounded by Changing Winds: Hot off the Griddle
-- B y   T o m   R a n d a l l
-- 2012-01-12T18:37:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/jets-grounded-by-changing-winds-hot-off-the-griddle.html
Good afternoon, and welcome back to the Griddle, a menu of fortified items
for the busy person's media diet. Thank an unusually powerful jet stream for
 unseasonably warm U.S. weather . It's whipping across  North America  and blocking
typical bouts of Arctic bluster. Another thing affected by the jet stream? Jets.
United Continental's westbound transatlantic flights were forced to make almost
four times the typical number of  unscheduled fuel stops  in December.  Bryan Walsh
at Time  wonders "Is It  Climate Change ?" or is the jet stream just one more wacky
weather pattern in a year that pushed the limits of wacky. The two things cannot
be separated; climate change is part of the world in which we live. Heat-
trapping atmospheric gases are at record levels and rising. There have been 48
record highs in  New York City 's Central Park since 1996 compared with just one
record low, Walsh says, and climate scientists forecast more wacky winters to
come. And now the news: Solar Lifts Clean Energy Investment to Record $260B  (Bloomberg)  China
Considers Carbon Tax, Official Says on U.S. Trip  (AFP)  States Using Little-
Known Fund to Jump-Start Clean Economy  (Inside Climate News)  Keystone
Pipeline Backers Press Obama for Decision Within Weeks  (Bloomberg) The
Business Case for Reading Novels  (Harvard Business Review) Vestas Cuts 2,335
Wind Jobs with More at Risk in U.S.  (Bloomberg) Greenhouse Gas Wars Set to
Resume in Texas  (Texas Tribune) China's Renewables Surge Outpaced by Growth
in Coal  (Guardian) Canadian Maples (and Syrup) Threatened by Climate Change,
Beetles  (Toronto Star) EPA Hopes Disclosure Leads to Greenhouse Gas
Reductions  (Center for Public Integrity) Visit  bloomberg.com/sustainability  for the latest from Bloomberg News about
energy, natural resources and global business.