-- JPMorgan Chief Dimon Promotes Petno to Oversee Commercial-Banking Division
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i
-- 2012-01-12T20:50:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/jpmorgan-chief-dimon-promotes-petno-to-oversee-commercial-banking-division.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive
Officer  Jamie Dimon  shuffled part of his management team and
recombined oversight of retail units that was split last year at
the biggest U.S. bank.  Dimon promoted Doug Petno to run commercial banking and
moved Chief Risk Officer Barry Zubrow to head regulatory, public
relations and lobbying strategy, Dimon wrote today in an
internal memo obtained by Bloomberg News.  Joe Evangelisti , a
spokesman for the New York-based bank, confirmed the memo’s
contents.  John Hogan, who was managing risk at JPMorgan’s investment
bank, will succeed Zubrow in overseeing risk companywide,
according to the memo. Hogan also joined the firm’s 14-member
operating committee, reporting directly to Dimon, 55.  Jay Mandelbaum, who ran strategy and business development,
is leaving the firm to “focus on entrepreneurial and other
interests,” Dimon wrote. “Jay has been an excellent partner of
mine since 1992, and I will miss him tremendously.”  Todd Maclin, head of retail banking, and  Gordon Smith , who
runs the credit-card division, now are co-CEOs of consumer
finance, according to the memo. In June, Dimon separated
management of the retail bank into three divisions -- mortgage,
retail banking and credit cards -- when the previous CEO of all
three units,  Charlie Scharf , was reassigned to the private-
equity unit as a partner.  “It has become clear to our leadership that we should run
the Chase consumer business as one business and one brand, one
that focuses first and foremost on serving our customers in the
way they want and with the products they need,” Dimon wrote.  Frank Bisignano, who was appointed in February to oversee
the company’s mortgage division, will continue in that role,
according to the memo.  Dow Jones Newswires reported on the memo earlier today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 