-- JPMorgan May Report Record Profit
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-01-12T12:57:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/jpmorgan-may-report-record-earnings-as-wells-fargo-closes-gap.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , likely to
keep the title of most profitable U.S. bank when it reports
earnings tomorrow, has a West Coast rival closing in:  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)   JPMorgan is projected to report a record $18.5 billion in
2011 earnings when adjusted for one-time items, a 6 percent
increase for the New York-based company, according to a survey
of analysts by Bloomberg. Profit at San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo is  estimated  to have jumped more than four times as much,
to an all-time high of $15.3 billion.  By focusing on the U.S. and eschewing traditional  Wall
Street  businesses such as structured products, Wells Fargo
surpassed earnings at  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Citigroup
Inc. for six consecutive quarters. Wells Fargo, whose $1.3
trillion in assets make it the fourth-largest U.S. bank, also
has higher valuations than its bigger peers.  Wells Fargo “never really embraced  investment banking  as
heavily as the Wall Street crowd has,” said  Paul Miller , a
former examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and
analyst at FBR Capital Markets in Arlington, Virginia. “I think
one of the reasons Wells is where they are right now is because
they did not get into that business” in a bigger way, he said.  The strains on investment banking will be apparent in
JPMorgan’s fourth-quarter profit, as well as weak trading
results predicted for its smaller competitors when they report
earnings next week, Miller said.  Earnings Ratio  Wells Fargo is being rewarded for its restraint with a
market value of $156.2 billion, compared with $139.3 billion at
JPMorgan and $91.4 billion at No. 3  Citigroup. (C)  Only Goldman
Sachs trades at a higher  price-to-earnings ratio  than Wells
Fargo among the biggest U.S. lenders, at 10.76 versus 10.25. The
higher the ratio, the faster investors think the company’s
profit will grow.  “Traditional banking, predominantly making loans and
taking deposits and serving both corporate and individual
consumers, is being viewed more favorably right now by the
investor community,” said Ed Najarian, who runs bank research
at International Strategy and Investment Group in  New York .
“It’s considered safer and to have a steadier and more
consistent earnings outlook.”  Share Performance  Wells Fargo has dropped  7.5 percent  in New York trading in
the past 12 months, compared with declines of 18 percent for
JPMorgan and 54 percent for  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  Wells Fargo
rose to $30 at 7:37 a.m. in New York from $29.62 yesterday,
while JPMorgan climbed to $37.13 from $36.66.  Wells Fargo, which reports earnings on Jan. 17, owes its
relative good fortune partly to  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis,
which slammed investment-banking results in the second half of
last year at JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and other firms with large
trading desks and international divisions.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. bank by assets, will probably
report a 23 percent slump in fourth-quarter adjusted profit from
the same period in 2010 to $3.74 billion, or 90 cents a share,
according to the survey. Analysts lowered their estimates after
Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 55, said at a Dec. 7
investor conference that trading would be “essentially flat”
from the third quarter.  Banking Units  Revenue at the company’s investment-banking unit slid this
year from $8.2 billion in the first quarter to about $4.5
billion in the third after backing out a $1.9 billion one-time
accounting gain as concern mounted that Greece would default and
U.S. lawmakers would fail to raise the debt ceiling. JPMorgan
told investors in October that the division would face similar
market conditions for the rest of the year.  Trading results got a lift in the third quarter as the
price of bank debt fell, resulting in a so-called debt-valuation
adjustment that boosted profits for JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and
Citigroup. The accounting adjustment probably hurt banks in the
fourth quarter as price of their debt rose, resulting in the
opposite effect on earnings.  “Trading and investment-banking revenue has been weak and
volatile, especially over the last two quarters, but really the
last two years,” Najarian said. Investment-banking results will
be worse for the fourth quarter than in the third quarter, he
said.  Revenue Declines  Overall revenue at JPMorgan is expected to drop 13 percent
for the quarter and 4 percent for the year, to $98.9 billion.
Fixed-income trading revenue at U.S. banks may fall 12 percent
from the third quarter, minus accounting adjustments, while
equities revenue drop 10 percent and investment-bank revenue
remains unchanged,  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities,
wrote in a Dec. 16 report.  Markets showed little improvement in the fourth quarter, as
trading remained subdued, corporate and institutional clients
stayed out of the markets and the holidays slowed deal and
trading traffic.  Lenders will continue to face pressure from persistently
low  interest rates , which have compressed profit margins on
lending. They’ll also have to contend with new restrictions on
fees.  The so-called Durbin amendment, which limits what lenders
can charge merchants on debit transactions, took effect on Oct.
1, affecting almost all U.S. banks and costing the top 25 about
$1.5 billion, according to  Jason Goldberg , a senior bank analyst
at  Barclays Capital  in New York.  Avoiding ‘Trash’  Wells Fargo “avoided a lot of the trash that others kind
of fell into leading into the 2008 financial crisis,” Goldberg
said in an interview. The company, led by CEO  John Stumpf , 58,
will see its fee revenue fall by about $350 million and JPMorgan
will lose roughly $300 million, Goldberg estimated.  “The big issue for the banks is, is this a cyclical or a
secular problem? And the answer is, it’s both,” said  Richard Bove , an analyst at Rochdale Securities LLC in Lutz, Florida.
Bove said U.S. lenders are starting to perform more like
utilities with smaller growth rates and less leverage. Goldman
Sachs may never generate 10 percent or 12 percent growth rates
again, he said.  “It’s not going to happen because the leverage in the
balance sheet is gone, the off-balance-sheet conduits are
illegal, the variable-interest entities are limited, the
structured-investment vehicles are gone,” Bove said, referring
to the types of securities that helped trigger the U.S. economic
crisis. “The leverage isn’t there and the market isn’t there.”  Optimistic Outlook  Large super-regional banks such as Wells Fargo and
Pittsburgh-based PNC Financial Services Group Inc. will probably
fare better as the basic business of taking deposits and making
loans gives reason for optimism, Goldberg said. Lending at U.S.
banks was up 2.1 percent from the third to the fourth quarter
while deposits rose 5.6 percent, according to Federal Reserve
data. Goldberg said the growth offset slimmer profit margins in
the fourth quarter.  “In this quarter you’re going to see dramatically
different results in each segment, with the traditional banks
having the best performance and the  capital markets  having the
worst,” Bove said.  Mike Mayo, an analyst with independent research firm CLSA
in New York, said U.S. banks are in the middle of the industry’s
worst two years of revenue growth since the Great Depression.
Earnings for the fourth quarter will be weak and won’t see much
improvement this year, he said.  Friday the 13th  “Friday the 13th will live up to its name when it comes to
bank earnings,” Mayo said in an interview yesterday at
Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York promoting his new book,
“Exile on Wall Street.” When banks start reporting results
with JPMorgan tomorrow, “you’re going to see all sorts of
revenue and margin pressure and the results will be
underwhelming.”  Bank of America, second by assets to JPMorgan, will
probably post $5.84 billion in adjusted earnings for the year, a
63 percent plunge from 2010, according to the Bloomberg  survey .  Citigroup’s 2011 profit was estimated at $11.8 billion, or
13 percent higher than the previous year, and Goldman Sachs is
projected to report a 57 percent decline to $3.35 billion.
 Morgan Stanley (MS) , the sixth-largest U.S. bank, may post $2.23
billion of adjusted earnings, down 28 percent. All three
companies are based in New York.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  