-- Kashya Hildebrand Says Husband’s ‘Stained’ Credibility Breaking Her Heart
-- B y   P a u l   V e r s c h u u r
-- 2012-01-12T10:08:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/kashya-hildebrand-says-husband-s-stained-credibility-breaking-her-heart.html
The wife of Switzerland’s former
central bank chief said the currency deal that cost her husband
his job was “my idea” and apologized to the nation.  “What breaks my heart is that his credibility is now being
stained,” Kashya Hildebrand said in an  interview  on Swiss
television broadcast last night. “There was an error of
judgment. He should have never let me do that transaction, and
upon reflection, that transaction should have been reversed.”  Philipp Hildebrand, 48, stepped down on Jan. 9, saying he
couldn’t prove conclusively that the Aug. 15 purchase of
$504,000 was initiated by his wife rather than himself. The
 Swiss National Bank (SNBN)  on Sept. 6 imposed a franc ceiling of 1.20
versus the euro to protect the economy, sending the single
currency and the dollar higher.  Kashya Hildebrand said it was “obviously a mistake,” when
apologizing for the “maelstrom I caused for this country.”  “I really -- from the bottom of my heart -- I apologize to
the Swiss people, to the politicians who have been distracted
from what’s important and more importantly to my husband because
he’s a great man, he’s done a great job,” she said. In August,
“the far right was making the headlines, there was pressure on
my husband to lose his job, the last thing that man was thinking
about was his private portfolio.”  The franc was at 1.2114 versus the euro at 11:06 a.m. in
Zurich, little changed on the day.  ‘We Have God’                     The dollar transaction came to light after  Christoph Blocher , deputy chairman of the right-wing  Swiss People’s Party ,
handed information on the SNB chief’s bank account to the
government. The information was allegedly stolen by an employee
of private bank  Bank Sarasin. (BSAN)   Kashya Hildebrand said she wasn’t allowed to comment on
whether the couple had been targeted for a personal vendetta,
adding “one person did make a very interesting comment: Mr.
Blocher might have a lot of money behind him, but we have God.”  The former hedge fund manager who owns a gallery in Zurich
gave the interview at an art fair in  Singapore . If anyone wanted
to speculate on the  currency markets  using Philipp Hildebrand’s
knowledge of the SNB’s plans, they would have bought euros
rather than dollars, she said.  “This wasn’t a day trade, this wasn’t a month trade,” she
said. “There was a reason behind it.”  A speculator would have used an anonymous numbered account,
made the transaction at a different time, and wouldn’t have
reported it to the SNB’s compliance authorities as her husband
did on the following day, she said.  “I left the airport last night and on 15 newspapers, my
husband was on the cover,” Kashya Hildebrand said. “And yes,
he’s very good looking, that’s clear, but what’s more important
is that people are turning this into an insider-trading kind of
scandalous event.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Verschuur in Zurich at 
 pverschuur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Angela Cullen at 
 acullen8@bloomberg.net  