-- Kashkari Sees ‘Downside Risk’ in Stocks
-- B y   L u   W a n g   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-12T17:55:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/kashkari-sees-downside-risk-in-global-stocks-on-europe-crisis-tom-keene.html
Concerns over  Europe ’s sovereign
debt crisis will continue to weigh on global stocks and drive up
volatility, according to Pacific Investment Management Co.’s
Neel Kashkari.  Pimco, which manages about $1.3 trillion, is avoiding
European banks, according to Kashkari, its head of global
equities. The firm favors multinational companies that sell in
fast-growing countries, such as Japanese automaker Honda Motor
Co. and  AIA Group Ltd. (1299) , a Hong Kong-based insurer, he said.  “There is a lot more downside risk here than there is for
upside surprises,” Kashkari said today in a radio interview
with Tom Keene and Ken Prewitt on “Bloomberg Surveillance.”
“We have not yet seen an actual resolution to the euro zone.
We’ve seen bridges to nowhere so far.”  The  MSCI World Index (MXWO) , a benchmark gauge for equities in
developed countries, fell 7.6 percent in 2011, the first annual
loss in three years, as concerns grew that Europe’s debt crisis
will trigger a global economic recession. The Standard & Poor’s
500 Index was virtually unchanged, while the MSCI Emerging
Market index slumped 20 percent. The MSCI World trades at 13.1
times the past 12 months’ earnings, compared with its average
since 1995 of 21.9, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Volatility reached record highs in August as Europe was
forced to bail out  Greece . Daily share swings in the  S&P 500 
averaged 2.2 percent that month, the most for any August since
1932, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Kashkari, who joined  Newport Beach , California-based Pimco
in December 2009, said investors should be prepared for high
volatility in the short term and hold stocks for a longer time
horizon. Pimco tends to hold a stock for three to five years, he
said.  “Equities are just far too volatile to play a timing game
right now,” he said. “If someone is saving to retire in 10
years, we think equities can offer an attractive total return,
given an attractive valuation today, still good earnings growth
and good dividend yield. The fundamentals are there, but in the
short term, there is going to be massive volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lu Wang in New York at   lwang8@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  