-- Kazakhstan Oil Worker Killings Draw Scrutiny of Europe’s OSCE
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   T i r o n e
-- 2012-01-12T15:37:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/kazakhstan-oil-worker-killings-draw-scrutiny-of-europe-s-osce.html
The killing of protesting oil
workers last month by Kazakh security forces is drawing scrutiny
from a European security organization that has offered to help
the Central Asian’s police investigate the incident.  “I’m certainly very concerned about the outbreak of
violence that took place in western  Kazakhstan  and resulted in a
loss of life,” Ireland’s Deputy Prime Minister  Eamon Gilmore 
said today at a press conference in Vienna. Ireland holds the
 Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe ’s rotating
chairmanship in 2012.  Kazakhstan, which held the OSCE chairmanship in 2010,
started a criminal probe over the use of force by police during
unrest in Zhanaozen, where at least 16 people died in a mass
riot on Dec. 16. Authorities have arrested 18 people suspected
of involvement in the violence that also left more than 100
people injured.  The 56-nation OSCE, which monitors the human rights conduct
of its members, is in “initial” talks with the Kazakh
government to determine whether it can embed observers with
police conducting the investigation, Secretary General Lamberto
Zannier said today in Vienna.  “Something we’re now exploring is whether we can work with
the Kazakh police,” Zannier said. We can “look at what
happened and improve the situation on the ground.”  Oil workers at state-run  KazMunaiGas Exploration Production (RDGZ) 
in Zhanaozen rioted after disputes over wages and job losses.
Unrest in the Mangistau region, bordering the  Caspian Sea  in
western Kazakhstan, spread after police used firearms to
suppress the riots, with one person killed in the nearby town of
Shetpe on Dec. 17 and protesters rallying in the regional
capital of Aktau.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Tirone in Vienna at 
 jtirone@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  