-- KBR Won’t Face Trial in Convoy Driver Deaths, Court Rules
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-01-12T21:55:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/kbr-won-t-face-trial-in-convoy-driver-death-cases-court-rules.html
KBR Inc. (KBR)  and its former corporate
parent,  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , won’t face a jury on claims they sent
unarmed civilian convoy drivers into an Iraqi battle zone in
2004, knowing the workers would be injured or killed, an appeals
court ruled.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New Orleans today ruled the
drivers’ claims were blocked by the Defense Base Act, a U.S. law
that shields military contractors from lawsuits. The drivers
were attacked and injured because of their role in support
operations for the U.S. Army, which is covered under that
statute, the judges said.  “Coverage of an injury under the DBA precludes an employee
from recovering from his employer,” even if the worker claims
the company was “substantially certain” the injuries would
occur, U.S. Circuit Judge Priscilla R. Owen said in a 30-page
ruling by the panel.  KBR, a Houston-based government contractor, was sued in
2005 by the families of seven drivers killed while working in
 Iraq  for the largest U.S. military contractor. The company
appealed a 2010 lower-court ruling that jurors could weigh the
companies’ actions without second-guessing the actions of the
Army.  Unarmed Civilians  U.S. District Judge Gray Miller, who presided over the case
in Houston federal court, refused to dismiss Halliburton, which
spun off KBR as a separate company in 2007. Miller also ruled
that the companies couldn’t name the military as a co-defendant
in the lawsuits, so the Army wasn’t required to defend its
actions.  The drivers and their families claimed KBR officials
fraudulently recruited workers for safe jobs in Iraq and
intentionally sent unarmed civilians into a recognized combat
zone in April 2004. KBR’s military-supply contract gave company
officials the right to refuse assignments deemed too dangerous
for civilians, according to the complaints.  KBR and Halliburton argued that they weren’t liable because
they couldn’t refuse Army orders to dispatch the fuel convoys
under terms of their multibillion-dollar supply contract with
the U.S. military. The convoys were attacked at a time when
Iraqi insurgents were escalating the fight against U.S. troops
that had taken over the country to oust dictator  Saddam Hussein .  ‘Complete Control’  Scott Allen , the drivers’ lead attorney, said in an e-mail
that he was saddened by the ruling and may discuss appealing it
to the U.S. Supreme Court with families of the dead and injured
men.  “It was KBR, and not the Army, who had complete control
over their civilian drivers that day,” Allen said, citing a
factual finding by the lower-court judge in the case. “Any
legal ruling that permits a private for-profit contractor to
send civilian, noncombatant drivers out into the line of fire is
contrary to the very nature of the civilian employee status of
the drivers and the private contractor’s relationship with
them.”  “KBR knew the attackers were on the road and had already
attacked other convoys that day, yet they sent my clients out
into the same ongoing attack,” Allen said.  Sarah Ui Mhuirgheasa, a KBR spokeswoman, didn’t immediately
respond to a request for comment on today’s ruling.  “Although Halliburton is named in the lawsuit, the
activity involved was pursuant to a KBR contract,” Marisol
Espinosa, a Halliburton spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail.  In late December, KBR reached a confidential settlement
with another convoy driver, Reginald Cecil Lane, who sued over
severe injuries he received in the same series of Iraqi attacks.
That settlement was disclosed in a Jan. 9 court filing by Lane’s
attorney, who declined to reveal its terms.  The case is Fisher v. Halliburton, 10-20202, U.S. Fifth
Circuit Court of Appeals ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 