-- Kelly Clarkson Sings Conservatives’ Blues for 2012: Amity Shlaes
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-01-12T00:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/kelly-clarkson-sings-republican-blues-for-2012-commentary-by-amity-shlaes.html
Every campaign has its song.
That song isn’t always the one the candidate chooses. In
2008,  John McCain  revealed that he liked “Dancing Queen” by
Abba. The senator’s staffers allowed that the theme of
“Rocky” might also suit the pugnacious one.  But the McCain campaign track of 2008 should probably
have been “Love Song” by Sara Bareilles. As in “Not going
to write you a ..." McCain wanted voters. They just didn’t
want McCain back. Finally, they told him so.  The 2012 race is doing its predecessors one better.
Republicans are finding themselves with not just a song,
but a singer: Kelly Clarkson. In 2002, Clarkson was one of
the first to demonstrate the power of “ American Idol ,” the
musical equivalent of the Iowa caucuses, to make a nobody
into a superstar. The song she performed on the show, “A
Moment Like This,” shot to No. 1 on the charts.  Clarkson is deservedly popular in families with
preteens. But maybe she is also a Republican prophetess.
Her songs seem to capture the dynamic of the party’s
struggles this campaign. And through her wide, glorious,
three-octave range, Clarkson tells us this party is
becoming perilously narrow.  On Twitter, Clarkson made clear her personal
preference among the Republican field --  Ron Paul  -- just a
few days before Paul placed third in the Iowa caucuses. And
her song “Breakaway,” conveys why the Texas congressman is
newly appealing to primary voters this time around.  “Breakaway” began its life humbly, as a soundtrack
song for “Princess Diaries II: Royal Engagement,” a preteen
fantasy film that features the improbable sight of  Julie Andrews  snowboarding down a staircase on a mattress. But
the song has power. And, like the libertarian Paul, fits
the desperate mood of Republican voters dissatisfied with
all that the party offers -- whether that is tame updates
of old entitlement policy or stale social conservatism.  “Grew up in a small town” -- a very small town, where
the Republican National Committee rules.  “And when the rain would fall down, I’d just stare out
my window” -- and hope to see something beyond anti-
abortion posters.  “Want to feel the warm breeze, sleep under a palm
tree, feel the rush of the ocean” -- preferably in a state
with medical marijuana.  “I’ll make a wish, take a chance, make a change. And
break away” -- escape that Grand Old Party combo of social
conservatism and tax credits.  Then there’s Clarkson’s “Mr. Know It All.” That’s  Newt Gingrich . “Oh you think that you know me” -- but maybe you
don’t. Newt’s genius is that he knows a lot. But it’s also
a failing because he doesn’t listen. That’s what voters
were saying when they turned away from him in Iowa and  New
Hampshire .  Finally, there’s “Because of You,” another of
Clarkson’s hits. It’s supposedly about how divorcing
parents permanently stunt the emotional lives of their
offspring and terrify the kids through door slamming, pill
popping, suitcase flinging and other marital histrionics.  Call me a family-dynamics imbecile. But having
listened to Clarkson belt out “Because of You”
approximately 120 times at the breakfast table, I will tell
you that it isn’t about families. It’s about  Mitt Romney .
Or at least the party culture he personifies.  As recently as the 1990s, the  Republican Party  was
capable of being a rough, joyous, go-over-the-waterfall-in-
a-barrel sort of party. That started to shift to caution in
the past decade. And now the prospect of four more years of
President  Barack Obama  so panics the party leaders that
they’re losing their ability to frame an inspiring and
radical conservative program.  Romney’s positions are more a medley of talking points
derived from opinion-poll research than a single
philosophy. Romney, who has now won the first two contests
in this election, is a walking warning to Republicans that
they had better back meek, logical compromise policies. In
other words, as a candidate, he plays to fear.  “Because of you ... I never stray too far from the
sidewalk.”  Romney’s campaign pitch is that he should be elected
because he’s electable. Talk to donors, and you hear over
and over again that they’re getting behind Romney because
they have to.  “Because of you ... I find it hard to trust, not only
me, but everyone ‘round me.”  Especially, for conservatives, plausible candidates
such as  Jon Huntsman  or  Rick Perry  or, until  Iowa ,  Michele Bachmann . These candidates have strengths, such as
knowledge of  China  (Huntsman) or wisdom on immigration
(Perry).  Rick Santorum  makes the best case among them for
not breaking away. But they aren’t doing as well as they
could be, merely because they aren’t considered “safe.”  Apparently, Republicans believe that if they don’t
pick Romney, and yesterday, we’ll all go down in some kind
of Democratic-Socialist apocalypse.  “Because of you ... I am afraid.”  What happened to election year as sport?  Nothing wrong with Clarkson. The problem is with the
Republicans’ premature decision to confine the choice in
this election to one between escapism (Paul) and fear
(Romney). Whichever candidate wins the primary, he’ll stand
a better chance against Obama if he puts forward a
multiple-octave program that reflects big conservative
principles.  Because the irony about “safe” is that it often has a
hard time winning general elections. Safe was the message
of  Bob Dole , the Kansas senator who opposed President  Bill Clinton .  Nobody can remember his song.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  