-- Keystone Pipeline Backers Press Obama for Decision Within Weeks
-- B y   J i m   E f s t a t h i o u   J r .
-- 2012-01-12T05:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/keystone-pipeline-backers-press-obama-for-decision-within-weeks.html
Supporters of  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s
Keystone XL oil pipeline stepped up their lobbying of President
 Barack Obama , urging him to approve the project before the State
of the Union address in less than two weeks.  The American Petroleum Institute, a Washington-based group
for energy producers, joined 104 associations yesterday in
saying the project will “put thousands of Americans to work.”
Senator  Richard Lugar , an Indiana Republican, said in a Jan. 6
letter to Obama that a delay will slow U.S. efforts to reduce
imports from nations such as Iran and Venezuela. Supporters are
seeking a decision before Obama speaks to Congress on Jan. 24.  “Republicans have an opportunity to frame it so the
question is asked immediately prior to the State of the Union
speech and Obama has to answer,” said  Kevin Book , managing
director at ClearView Energy Partners LLC, a Washington-based
policy analysis firm. “Either the Republicans get to score an
unanswered point or they get their response.”  The proposed $7 billion pipeline has put Republicans in
Congress at odds with the Obama administration over jobs and the
environment. The 1,661-mile (2,673-kilometer) project, which
would carry 700,000 barrels of crude a day from Alberta’s oil
sands to U.S. Gulf of Mexico refineries, also has split two
Democratic constituencies, labor unions and advocates for the
environment.  Congress last month set a 60-day deadline for the U.S. to
issue a pipeline permit after the administration in November
said it would delay a decision to study an alternate route.
Republican presidential candidates may highlight the job-
creating aspect of the project at a Jan. 19 debate in South
Carolina. The primary vote is Jan. 21.  No Decision Date  Josh Earnest , a White House spokesman, said he had no
update on the timing for a decision on the pipeline.  The lack of a plan for rerouting the pipeline in part of
Nebraska “underscores the difficulty of evaluating and
affirming this project within that 60-day window,” Earnest told
reporters traveling with Obama to  Chicago  yesterday.  Brendan Buck , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner ,
an Ohio Republican, included approval of the Keystone pipeline
in an e-mail sent to reporters listing legislative priorities of
the Republican-led House before lawmakers return to  Washington 
next week.  “We all know this pipeline and the associated jobs have
been put in jeopardy due to political calculations of the
administration,” Buck wrote in the e-mail. “The president has
said repeatedly that he wants to do everything he can to create
jobs, but if he rejects this permit, that statement will
demonstrably ring hollow.”  Jobs Created  Tapping the Canada oil sands, building the pipeline and
developing other infrastructure will create more than 500,000
U.S. jobs, and add $775 billion to economic growth by 2035, the
trade associations said in their letter to Obama.  “As the president has said, ‘we can’t wait’ to create jobs
in this weak economy,”  Jack Gerard , president of the  American
Petroleum Institute , said in a statement. “President Obama
needs to show he is serious about  job creation .”  Legislation extending the U.S. payroll-tax cut that passed
Dec. 22 requires the State Department to issue a permit by Feb.
21, too little time a full review, White House spokesman  Jay Carney  said on Dec. 20.  “The president is going to say no,” Mike McKenna, an oil-
industry lobbyist and president of MWR Strategies Inc. in
Washington, said in an interview. “The only recourse the
Republicans have is to make it painful, politically, for him.”  Delay ‘Incongruous’  TransCanada applied for a permit in 2008. Advocates such as
Lugar, who sponsored legislation to set a deadline, said further
delay compromises U.S. efforts to import more oil from a
friendly country.  “The lengthy delay in permitting Keystone XL is
incongruous with our country’s dire need to diversify oil
sources and promote job creation,” Lugar wrote to Obama.  The Obama administration delayed action in response to the
concerns of  Nebraska  citizens, state officials and some members
of Congress that TransCanada’s proposed route across the state’s
Sandhills area posed risks to the Ogallala aquifer, the
drinking-water source for 1.5 million people.  “Every indication right now is saying the administration
is going to deny the permit for the pipeline given that the 60-
day period is not enough time to complete the review,” Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, director of the international program at the
 Natural Resources Defense Council , said in an interview. “The
public concerns in Nebraska are so deep that to really do it
right and listen to the people of Nebraska, this will take some
time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Efstathiou Jr. in New York at 
 jefstathiou@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  