-- Kinder Morgan Said to Prepare to Sell Parts of El Paso Unit
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-01-12T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/kinder-morgan-said-to-prepare-to-sell-parts-of-el-paso-unit.html
Kinder Morgan Inc. (KMI)  is preparing to
start talks on selling off parts of  El Paso Corp. (EP) ’s oil and gas
exploration and production unit in case the pipeline operator
can’t find a buyer for the whole division, said people with
knowledge of the matter.  Kinder Morgan, which agreed in October to take over El Paso,
plans to initiate formal negotiations with suitors for parts of
the unit as soon as next week, said the people yesterday, who
spoke on condition of anonymity as discussions are private.  Kinder Morgan is in separate talks with Apollo Global
Management LLC and Reliance Industries Ltd. over a sale of the
whole unit, and is asking for bids by Jan. 16, they said.  Selling off the business piecemeal may complicate  Kinder
Morgan ’s effort to raise cash quickly to help  finance  its $21
billion takeover of Houston-based El Paso.  Some assets, such as acreage in  Texas ’s Eagle Ford shale
prospect, are likely to attract many buyers, while others may be
difficult to sell quickly, the people said. The whole unit may
be worth $8.1 billion, analysts at BNP Paribas SA estimated in
November.  Larry Pierce , a spokesman for Kinder Morgan, declined to
comment yesterday. Gretchen Krueger, a representative for El
Paso, referred questions to Kinder Morgan. Tushar Pania, a
spokesman for Mumbai-based Reliance, declined to comment.
Carolyn Sargent, a spokeswoman for New York-based Apollo, also
declined to comment.  Breaking up the exploration unit is “a little
surprising,” said Dan Morrison, a senior analyst at Global
Hunter Securities LLC in  Fort Worth , Texas.  Horizontal Drilling  El Paso has developed expertise in shale fields, which
require a combination of horizontal drilling and hydraulic
fracturing to produce oil and gas.  “There’s a lot of value in the operational organization to
someone who really needs it -- like a foreign buyer or private
equity,” Morrison said in an interview yesterday.  El Paso’s most attractive assets are its acreage in the
Eagle Ford and Wolfcamp shale fields in Texas. The Eagle Ford
has seen transactions from existing owners who want to increase
their acreage, and from newcomers trying to buy into the field,
Morrison said.  There have been few purchases in the Wolfcamp, Morrison
said. Most production there has come from companies that leased
land in the field and explored it themselves, he said.  El Paso had the estimated equivalent of about 4 trillion
cubic feet of reserves at the end of 2011, including acreage in
fields such as the Eagle Ford, according to a Dec. 19 statement.  Onshore Fields  Exploration companies have flocked to onshore  oil fields  to
bolster their profit as  oil prices  rose and gas prices fell.  El Paso has drilled 57 wells in the Eagle Ford, according
to its most recent quarterly report. Its oil and gas liquids
production from the Eagle Ford jumped to about 10,000 barrels a
day from 7,000 between September 30 and early November as it
overcame a pipeline bottleneck, the report said.  El Paso’s production is expected to increase to the
equivalent of 830 million to 840 million cubic feet of gas a day
for 2011, from 782 in 2010, according to the Dec. 19 statement.
About 86 percent of the company’s production was from natural
gas, the rest was from crude oil and liquids, according to its
third-quarter report. It also has acreage in Brazil and Egypt,
although about 96 percent of its production is from the U.S.  Combining Kinder Morgan with El Paso would create the
largest U.S. operator of oil and gas pipelines. El Paso dropped
a previously disclosed plan to spin off the upstream business to
shareholders. The unit had $1.1 billion of  earnings  before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2010, El Paso
said in October.  Apollo has been working with potential co-investors
including New York-based Riverstone Holdings LLC, one of the
people said.  Jeffrey Taufield , a Riverstone spokesman, declined
to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 