-- King Resists Adding Stimulus as Reports Show Resilience of U.K.’s Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-12T13:02:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/king-may-refrain-from-more-stimulus-for-now-as-u-k-shows-some-resilience.html
Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King 
refrained from adding to emergency stimulus again today as
policy makers await new forecasts and the economy showed some
resilience heading into 2012.  The Monetary Policy Committee maintained its  bond-purchase
target  at 275 billion pounds ($421 billion) in London today,
which was forecast by all but one of 41 economists in a
Bloomberg News survey. Citigroup Inc. and  Royal Bank of Scotland
Group Plc (RBS)  are among banks saying it will increase the amount
next month when current purchases end. The central bank has been
buying about 5.1 billion pounds of gilts a week since October.  U.K. services and manufacturing gauges unexpectedly rose
last month, signaling the economy gained some strength. Still,
 Bank of England  officials have said the economy is probably
stagnating as  Europe ’s debt crisis weighs on the recovery, and
their November forecast for slowing inflation signals that more
quantitative easing will be needed.  “Some of the data looks better, but we’re probably already
in recession,” said  Alan Clarke , an economist at Scotia Capital
Europe in London. “They will expand QE in February, the only
question is how much. I would expect 50 billion pounds.”  Bond Yields  The prospect of further bond purchases is weighing on the
pound, which fell for a second day against the euro to 83.11
pence. Against the dollar, it was up 0.1 percent at $1.5348 as
of 1 p.m. in  London .  Bonds stayed lower after the Bank of England’s
announcement, with the yield on the 10-year gilt up 1 basis
point to 2.02 percent. U.K. gilts have risen as investors sought
refuge from the euro-area crisis, with the 10-year yield falling
to a record-low 1.93 percent on Dec. 30.  The Bank of England also kept its  benchmark interest rate 
at a record-low 0.5 percent today. The  European Central Bank 
kept its key rate at 1 percent today. ECB President  Mario Draghi 
will speak at a press conference in Frankfurt at 2:30 p.m.  While the U.K. economy grew the most in a year in the third
quarter, the outlook has since darkened. U.K. manufacturing
dropped 0.2 percent in November from the previous month, data
today showed. The Bank of England cut its 2012 growth projection
in November, a month after it increased its QE target by 75
billion pounds. Prime Minister  David Cameron , whose government
is cutting spending to narrow the  budget deficit , said on Jan. 5
this will be a “difficult year.”  Job Cuts  Rising unemployment is undermining consumer demand in the
U.K.  Royal Bank of Scotland  said today it will cut about 4,800
jobs. It didn’t say how many would be lost in Britain.  Tesco
Plc (TSCO) , the U.K.’s largest supermarket chain, reported Christmas
sales that missed analyst estimates and said full-year profit
will be at the “low end of the current consensus range.” There
will be “minimal” growth in earnings next year, it said.  Bank of England policy makers will publish new growth and
inflation projections next month. They have forecast that
inflation, at 4.8 percent in November, will slow “sharply”
this year. Based on its current stimulus, the central bank sees
consumer-price growth at 1.7 percent at end of 2012, below its 2
percent goal, and 1.3 percent at the end of 2013.  James Knightley , an economist at ING Group in London, said
the inflation forecast “means further stimulus will be
required.”  ‘Poor’ Prospects  “ Consumer spending  is being constrained by negative real
wage growth and rising job insecurity,” he said. “Add in the
fact that the external environment is not good news for exports
and that firms are reluctant to invest in such an uncertain
economic backdrop, and we believe that growth prospects remain
very poor.”  The central bank expects the current round of QE to be
finished in February. In the minutes of their December meeting,
some MPC members said more may be needed. Still, they noted that
“market capacity made it difficult to increase the monthly rate
of purchases substantially above what was already under way.”  Clarke at Scotia said that a 50 billion-pound increase to
the bond target in February that’s completed over three months
would produce about the same weekly rate of purchases as the
current round, which extended over four months.  Lower borrowing costs have helped to support the economy. A
U.K. index of services rose to the highest in five months in
December, while Britain’s benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  has gained
about 4.9 percent in the past month.  There are also signs of strength in the U.S., the world’s
largest economy. Payrolls growth beat forecasts in December and
the  unemployment rate  dropped to the lowest in almost three
years. Indexes of manufacturing and services strengthened.  “The data looks a bit better than people were expecting,”
said David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas SA in London.
“But I still think” the Bank of England is “going to go. The
data can take some improvement and it’s still justified to do
more QE in February.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  