-- Nadal Gets New Racket to Beat Djokovic as Murray Hires Lendl for Australia
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h   a n d   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-01-12T17:54:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/nadal-gets-new-racket-to-beat-djokovic-as-murray-hires-lendl-for-australia.html
Novak Djokovic is coming off a year
of success rarely seen in tennis, and his three nearest rivals
are altering their games to try to make sure there is no repeat.  The right-hander from  Serbia  defends 10 titles this season,
including three of the four Grand Slam championships, beginning
with the Australian Open starting Jan. 16 in  Melbourne .  Djokovic, 24, grabbed the No. 1 ranking on the ATP World
Tour and a record $12.6 million in prize money last year, and
the players chasing him reacted. No. 2-ranked  Rafael Nadal  added
weight to his racket, No. 3  Roger Federer  of Switzerland took
six weeks off after losing to Djokovic at the U.S. Open to
recover mentally, and No. 4  Andy Murray  hired eight-time Grand
Slam champion  Ivan Lendl  as his coach.  “When a guy has an epic season like Djokovic had, you’re
going to see a few guys make a push to do something different to
try to catch him,” Brad Gilbert, who coached  Andre Agassi  to
six Grand Slam titles, said in a telephone interview.  Djokovic is rated as the 11-10 favorite for the men’s
championship at Melbourne Park by U.K. bookmaker William Hill.
Federer is next at 7-2, Murray 5-1 and Nadal 11-2.  Last year’s Australian Open final win over the 24-year-old
Murray was the first of seven straight tournament victories for
Djokovic in a 41-match winning streak, the best start on the
men’s tour in 27 years.  He took the No. 1 spot from Nadal, 25, in July after
earning his first Wimbledon title and finished with a  70-6
record . That included a 21-4 mark against top 10-ranked
opponents, making Djokovic the first player to record 20 such
wins since Lendl in 1985.  More Responsibilities  “With the new position that I have, I obviously have more
expectations of what I do and more responsibilities,” Djokovic
said in a round-table interview in November at the season-ending
ATP World Tour Finals in  London . “I’m ready for it. Everything
that I do in my life is a challenge and I’m ready to accept
it.”  Nadal, Federer, 30, and Britain’s Murray are trying to keep
up.  Nadal added three grams to his racket head to “gain a
little bit more power,” Jean-Christophe Verborg, international
tour manager of French racket-maker Babolat, said in an e-mail.  The Spanish left-hander lost all six finals he played last
year against Djokovic, including Wimbledon and the U.S. Open.
Before 2011, Djokovic had never managed to beat the 10-time
major champion in a Grand Slam match.  “Considering that he’d owned Djokovic in big matches it
was an incredible turnaround,” Gilbert said from Adelaide,
where he was playing in the World Tennis Challenge exhibition
event. “Nadal will go out there and do whatever he can. He’s a
worker. If you’re not getting better, you’re falling behind.”  Nadal said he’d only had one practice week with his new
racket before the start of this season. Although he’d decided to
add more weight after the  U.S. Open , he still helped  Spain  win
the Davis Cup title in December with his old racket.  Control Loss  “I’m losing a little bit of control now, sometimes I don’t
feel the forehand as good as before,” he told a news conference
last week in Doha, Qatar, where he lost in the semifinals to
eventual runner-up Gael Monfils of  France . “But it’s something
that I believe can help me in the future.”  Murray, who’s lost all three of his major finals, announced
Lendl’s hiring on Dec. 31 and won the Brisbane International
title eight days later. Known for a rigorous fitness regime and
attention to detail as a player, Lendl, a Czech-born former No.
1-ranked player and a U.S. citizen since 1992, has never before
worked as a top-level coach.  Djokovic’s landmark season was a “wakeup call” for
Murray, said six-time Grand Slam singles champion  Boris Becker .  “I’m sure that in the back of his mind, he’s said, ‘It
could have been my year,’” Becker, who won titles at Wimbledon
and the Australian and U.S Opens, said in an interview.  Federer’s Doubts  Federer, who won the most recent of his record 16 major
singles championships at the 2010 Australian Open, practiced in
Dubai over Christmas before playing in an exhibition tournament
in  Abu Dhabi , where he took three games off Djokovic in a
semifinal loss. The Swiss right-hander blew two match points in
a U.S. Open semifinal loss to Djokovic in September and then
took time off to overcome some “doubts” in his mind about his
game, he said in London.  Federer pulled out before last week’s Doha semifinals
citing back spasms, only the second time in 996 career matches
that he’s withdrawn during a tournament. He said this week that
he’s making “good progress” in his preparations for the
Australian Open, which he’s won four times.  “I get the feeling that people thinking that Roger doesn’t
have another gear left only motivates him more,” said Gilbert,
who also coached  Andy Roddick  to his only major victory at the
2003 U.S. Open.  Main Quarry  Argentina ’s Juan Martin  Del Potro , the only player other
than Djokovic, Federer and Nadal to win a Grand Slam title in
the past 27 majors, said the Serb’s success last year marks him
as the main quarry in the men’s game.  “Roger and Rafa will be going after Novak because they
don’t want him to repeat the year he just had,” Del Potro, the
2009 U.S. Open champion, told reporters Jan. 8 in Sydney. “What
he did is very difficult for him to do again.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Danielle Rossingh in London at 
 drossingh@bloomberg.net ;
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  