-- New York Will Reward Teachers Building ‘21st Century’ Schools, Mayor Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-12T22:15:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/new-york-s-bloomberg-seeks-to-reward-effective-teachers-open-100-schools.html
New York will seek to attract and
reward “highly effective” teachers, evaluate their performance
and create 100 schools, including some that prepare students for
technical careers, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  Bloomberg, 69, renewed his commitment to improve education
today in his annual State of the City speech, a decade after he
persuaded the state to abolish the Board of Education and give
him control of the biggest U.S. school system.  The mayor delivered the speech at Morris High School in the
Bronx, where he said about 75 percent of students graduate
within six years, compared with 27 percent a decade ago.
Citywide, he said, graduation rates have gone up 40 percent
since 2005, versus 8 percent in the state’s other districts.  “All across the city, we face that same challenge -- the
challenge of building a 21st century economy and building the
21st century public schools that can drive it,” the mayor said.
“It is the challenge of our time. How well we meet it will
define the state of our city for generations.”  The mayor presented the speech at the start of a year in
which he faces the challenge of closing a $2 billion gap in the
city’s $70 billion budget, and an economic forecast from state
Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli  that predicts the probable loss of
10,000 finance-industry jobs.  Cornell-Technion  To stimulate the economy, Bloomberg has offered budding
entrepreneurs low-rent  office space  he describes as “business
incubators” in all five boroughs. Last month he awarded $110
million in infrastructure improvements to  Cornell University  and
the Technion-Israel Institute of Technology to build an
engineering school on city-owned land on Roosevelt Island.  He said today he’s seeking requests for proposals for
commercial development of the Kingsbridge Armory, a 100-year-
old, castle-like structure occupying an almost five-acre block
of the Bronx. It has remained vacant since 1996, when the
National Guard turned it over to the city.  The city also would increase its investment in a regional
produce market in Hunts Point, another Bronx neighborhood, by
$25 million to $87 million, the mayor said. The plan would
retain 3,600 jobs and fight  New Jersey ’s effort to lure them
away.  The mayor, a former Republican who was elected as an
independent, said he would join Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver,
a Manhattan Democrat, in pressing the state to raise its $7.25
 minimum wage  to an amount “high enough so people can get by on
it without having a negative economic impact.”  Focus on Education  He focused most of the speech on education, which 10 years
ago he singled out as the issue on which his performance as
mayor should be judged. He sketched a two-year strategy he said
would build on past achievements, such as higher graduation
rates and fewer dropouts.  To encourage the brightest to seek teaching jobs, the city
would offer a $25,000 grant to help pay off college-student
loans for graduates at the top of their class who commit to work
in city schools for a number of years. The city would also give
a $20,000 salary boost to teachers rated “highly effective”
for two consecutive years, the mayor said.  “The marketplace keeps showing us that we have to be
competitive if we’re going to attract the best,” Bloomberg
said.  To make the program work, the city would institute an
evaluation system that singles out the most effective teachers
and also contains tougher standards for tenure.  “We need to be able to identify those ineffective teachers
and give them the support they need to grow,” Bloomberg said.
“And if that doesn’t work, we need to be able move them out.”  ‘Fantasy World’  Last month, Governor  Andrew Cuomo  froze about $60 million
in federal funds meant for  New York City  schools after the
Bloomberg administration and the  United Federation of Teachers 
failed to agree on a new evaluation system. Cuomo last week said
he would create a bipartisan commission to review teacher-
standards laws and offer revisions to break the impasse.  “The mayor seems to be lost in his own fantasy world of
education,” UFT President Michael Mulgrew said in an e-mail
after the speech. He said Bloomberg’s merit pay proposal “has
failed in school districts around the country,” and that the
mayor would need to negotiate with the union before he tried to
fire teachers deemed ineffective in the city’s worst-performing
schools.  “If he’s really interested in improving the schools his
administration has mishandled, he will send his negotiators back
to the table to reach an agreement on a new teacher-evaluation
process,” Mulgrew said.  New Schools  The mayor also vowed to add 100 schools to a system of
almost 1,700 by the end of 2013 when his third and final term
ends. The plan would include 50  charter schools , which are
nonsectarian, publicly funded institutions that operate
independently of local boards of education.  One of the new schools, a “Software Engineering Academy”
planned for Union Square in  Manhattan , would focus on technical
education, Bloomberg said. At least 12 schools focusing on
career and technical education would be created, he said.  Bloomberg also pledged to increase access to college loans
and scholarships for students most in need, including the
children of illegal immigrants.  “We can’t blame them for being brought here as infants or
teens,” he said. “Since they are here to stay, it’s in New
York City’s best interest to make sure they are able to become
productive members of society.”  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York  City Hall  at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 