-- New York Fed Said to Weigh Sale of Some AIG Mortgage Debt
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-01-12T22:40:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/new-york-fed-said-to-consider-one-time-sale-for-7-billion-of-aig-assets.html
The  Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
may sell a block of the mortgage bonds it assumed from  American
International Group Inc. (AIG)  after being approached by a potential
buyer, according to two people familiar with the matter.  The central bank may hold a one-time auction for about $7
billion of the  securities , said the people, who declined to be
identified because the deliberations are private. The winner may
need to buy all of the debt offered, one of the people said.  The New York Fed in June ended a plan to sell a group of
the assets assumed in AIG’s 2008 rescue through a series of
auctions, following sales of about $10 billion in face value of
mortgage securities. The assets, held by a vehicle called Maiden
Lane II, had dwindled to about $21 billion when the auctions
were halted.  Investors and traders blamed the earlier auctions for
causing prices to tumble. After values fell further and trading
shriveled as Europe’s debt crisis intensified, the planned sale
could be either helpful for the market or “a disaster,” said
 Paul Norris  of Dwight Asset Management Co.  “The hope was that the Fed would sit back with this Maiden
Lane II portfolio and not talk about it until the market had
some strength to it,” said Norris, a senior  money manager  at
the Burlington, Vermont-based firm, which manages and advises on
more than $50 billion of assets.  Jack Gutt , a spokesman for the New York Fed, and Mark Herr,
a spokesman for New York-based AIG, declined to comment. Dow
Jones reported the potential sale earlier today.  Asked to Bid  A list of four or five dealers, including Goldman Sachs
Group Inc., may be asked to assemble bids, the people said. More
than 40 bond brokers were invited to participate during the
initial sales. Michael Duvally, a spokesman for the New York-
based Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  The  New York  Fed began selling the bonds piecemeal after
rejecting a $15.7 billion bid from AIG for the entire pool in
March. The portfolio includes securities backed by the types of
home loans with some of the highest default rates, such as so-
called subprime, Alt-A and option adjustable-rate mortgage debt.  A rout in the market for the bonds has eased, with typical
prices of top-ranked securities tied to Alt-A ARMs unchanged at
48 cents on the dollar in the month ended Jan. 4, after plunging
from last year’s high of 68 cents in February to the lowest
since 2009, Barclays Capital data show. Alt-A loans fall between
prime and subprime in terms of expected defaults.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  