-- Nexen $3.3 Billion Windfall Signaled With CEO Exiting: Real M&A
-- B y   T a r a   L a c h a p e l l e   a n d   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-01-12T14:50:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/nexen-3-3-billion-windfall-signaled-with-ceo-exiting-real-m-a.html
The departure of  Nexen Inc. (NXY) ’s chief
executive officer is leaving the door open for a takeover that
may reward shareholders with a $3.3 billion windfall.  The Canadian oil and natural-gas producer that failed to
find a buyer last year climbed the most in three months with
this week’s announcement that CEO Marvin Romanow was exiting
immediately. Once worth as much as C$22.8 billion ($22.4
billion), Nexen declined  20 percent  during Romanow’s three-year
tenure and last month fell to 0.92 times book value, the lowest
in at least 16 years, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  While Calgary-based Nexen has faced setbacks with oil-sands
projects such as its Long Lake operation in Alberta, it’s now
cheaper relative to earnings than 96 percent of North American
oil exploration and production companies with market values
greater than $1 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The
$9.4 billion company with oil and gas operations from  West
Africa  to the North Sea may fetch at least a 35 percent premium
in a takeover, said  Edward Jones  & Co.  “You’ve removed one more stumbling block with the CEO
leaving,” said  Timothy Parker , a Baltimore-based portfolio
manager who oversees about $4.5 billion in natural-resource
stocks for T. Rowe Price Group Inc., Nexen’s  largest shareholder .
“It’s cheaper than average and so there is appeal there for an
acquirer because you could likely buy it at an accretive price.
You could pay a good premium and it could still be accretive.”  Davis Sheremata, a spokesman for Nexen, declined to comment
on takeover speculation.  Nexen gained 1.1 percent to C$18.30 at 9:45 a.m. in Toronto.  CEO’s Exit  Romanow, who had worked at Nexen for 13 years and had been
CEO since January 2009, was replaced by Chief Financial Officer
Kevin Reinhart on an interim basis, the company said in a
statement Jan. 9, without providing a reason for the exit. Gary Nieuwenburg, vice president overseeing Canadian operations at
Nexen, also left. The shares gained 7.8 percent the next day,
the most since Oct. 5.  Nexen, which was formed when  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) 
combined its Canadian units into one company in  1971 , lost about
$2.1 billion in market value during Ronamow’s tenure, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  Profit slumped in the third quarter as production fell
below the company’s expectations and it took a longer time to
start a platform at its Buzzard facility in the U.K.’s North Sea.
The Long Lake oil-sands project has lagged initial output
estimates since it started operating in January 2009. Also, the
oil producer’s contract with Yemen expired last month after
negotiations for an extension with the war-torn nation failed.  ‘Ton of Problems’  “They’ve stepped on the sharp end of the rake every chance
they got,”  John Stephenson , who helps manage $2.7 billion,
including Nexen shares, for First Asset Investment Management
Inc. in Toronto, said in a phone interview. “They’ve had a ton
of problems. So this was a decisive move, a bold move, and it
certainly opens the door for a buyer.”  Nexen’s combined equity and net debt was  valued  yesterday
at 3.5 times its earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization in the last 12 months, making it cheaper than
77 of the 80 other North American exploration and production
companies with market capitalizations higher than $1 billion,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The industry trades at a median
of 8.7 times Ebitda.  Shares of Nexen also slipped to a three-year  low  of C$14.63
on Dec. 14, the equivalent of an 8 percent discount to its book
value, or the value of its assets minus liabilities. At 1.1
times  book value  as of yesterday’s close, it’s still cheaper
than 91 percent of the industry, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  ‘Substantial Value’  “There is substantial value to be unlocked,”  Lanny Pendill , an analyst with Edward Jones in  St. Louis , said in a
phone interview. “It’s a company that has a pretty poor
operational track record. If you think about what the assets are
worth versus where the stock is trading, there’s a very large
gap.”  Nexen would demand a minimum of a 35 percent premium in an
acquisition “because of how depressed the stock price is,”
Pendill said. That would equate to C$24.45 a share, or about
C$12.9 billion -- C$3.35 billion ($3.29 billion) more than the
company’s current market value. A buyer would also have to
assume C$3.45 billion in  net debt .  T. Rowe Price’s Parker said stockholders would want a bid
“in the C$20s” and would be “shocked” if investors turned
down an offer higher than C$25 a share.  While a slumping stock price led Nexen to consider options
such as a sale last year, the company decided it wouldn’t get a
high enough premium and instead should focus on fixing problems
at its Long Lake  oil-sands  facility, Romanow said at the
company’s investor day on Dec. 1.  Exploring a Sale  “We looked at selling the company,” Romanow said. “We
looked at selling major assets. We looked at setting up separate
companies. We looked at every financial re-engineering that was
done in our industry and in other industries to see if there was
a way to generate some value for you sooner.”  Nexen shares had climbed on takeover speculation in December
2008 when the FT Alphaville website reported that Total SA,
 Europe ’s third-largest oil company, was preparing a C$38-a-share
bid. A day later, the Times of  London  reported that Total had
abandoned the plans.  While Nexen’s discount relative to peers may draw takeover
interest, buyers may be wary because of its diverse assets and
locations and operational setbacks in recent years, particularly
in the oil sands, Sam La Bell, an energy and special situations
analyst at Veritas Investment Research Corp. in Toronto, said in
a phone interview.  “People who are looking for bargains have been looking at
Nexen because it is so cheap,” La Bell said. “But the
operational performance would pose a real challenge.”  Nexen’s Assets  Still, Nexen would give a buyer access to  Canada ’s vast oil
deposits, offshore production in the U.K.’s  North Sea , West
Africa and the  Gulf of Mexico  and drilling opportunities in
shale rock formations. Nexen  produced  the equivalent of 164,000
barrels a day of oil in the third quarter and had reserves of
919 million barrels of oil at the end of 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  ConocoPhillips, the third-largest U.S. oil company, may be
interested in Nexen as it plans to spin off its refining
business this year,  Ted Harper , who helps manage about $6.8
billion in assets for Frost Investment Advisors LLC in Houston,
said in a phone interview. The Houston-based company has about
$6 billion in  cash  and near-cash items, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. A phone call to the  ConocoPhillips (COP)  media line
wasn’t returned.  Chinese Buyers  Additional potential acquirers may include other cash-rich
 oil companies  from  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)  to  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,
as well as companies in  China , according to T. Rowe Price’s
Parker. Exxon had  $11 billion  in cash at the end of the third
quarter while Shell had  $19 billion , the data show.  Kimberly Brasington, a spokeswoman for Irving, Texas-based
Exxon, and Kayla Macke, a spokeswoman for The Hague-based Shell,
declined to comment on market speculation.  “As far as who could buy it, it could be any number of
people,” Parker said in a phone interview. “You’ve got a lot
of big, major oils with a bunch of cash and balance sheets to
handle a deal of this size, and you’ve got a lot of Chinese
companies that might be interested.”  Companies in China announced about $12.9 billion worth of
bids last year for overseas oil and gas explorers and producers,
excluding terminated deals, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “I absolutely think the CEO leaving opens the door for a
lot of possibilities” for Nexen, said Stephenson of First Asset.
“The long and short of it is that the company lacks strategic
direction, it didn’t deal with its problems early and so a buyer
might be interested because of valuation.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tara Lachapelle in  New York  at 
 tlachapelle@bloomberg.net ;
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at   susanwarren@bloomberg.net . 