-- Nigeria’s President to Meet Unions as National Strike Threatens Oil Output
-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-01-12T14:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/nigerian-oil-unions-vow-to-paralyze-output-to-back-strike.html
Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan
will meet labor leaders in a bid to end a four-day-old
nationwide strike against the lifting of fuel subsidies and
avert a shutdown of the oil industry, a union leader said.  The meeting will take place at 5 p.m. local time today in
Abuja, the capital, Peter Esele, president of the Trade Union
Congress, told reporters. Earlier, the Pengassan labor union
said it would begin shutting down Africa’s biggest oil industry
on Jan. 15, while the Nupeng union said it has withdrawn its
workers from fields operated by companies such as  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc. (RDSA)  The strike has limited trade in stocks and the naira,
closed ports and banks and sparked street protests.  “If there’s a prolonged shutdown of oil exports, that
would put tremendous presssure on the government,” Antony Goldman, the head of London-based PM Consulting, said by phone
today. In the short term, “companies producing off floating
production storage and offloading vessels can probably increase
production” to offset initial losses, he said.  Jonathan, who won a four-year term in April, has pledged to
use savings from the 1.2 trillion naira ($7.4 billion) subsidy
to invest in  power plants  and roads in sub-Saharan Africa’s
second-largest economy. At the same time he faces an increase in
religious violence in parts of the north where he has declared a
state of emergency and says Islamist militants pose a worse
threat to the country than the 1967-70 civil war.  Nigeria  at ‘Crossroads’  More than 85 people have died in bomb and gun attacks since
Christmas Day on churches in Abuja, the capital, and in the
north that the authorities blame on Boko Haram. Its leader,
Abubakar Shekau, in a  15-minute video  posted on Youtube, claimed
responsibility for recent attacks and said the group will target
Christians in the north if they don’t heed its warning to leave.  “The strike and the security situation leave Nigeria at a
crossroads,” Goldman said. “Whether things will get better or
worse will be resolved in the next few weeks. The status quo
looks increasingly unsustainable.”  Oil accounts for about 80 percent of state revenue and more
than 95 percent of export income, according to the  Finance
Ministry . Nigeria produced about 2.2 million barrels of oil a
day last month, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. At
least 90 percent of Nigeria’s crude is pumped by Shell, based in
 The Hague ,  Exxon Mobil Corp (XOM) ,  San Ramon , California-based  Chevron
Corp. (CVX) , Total SA and  Eni SpA (ENI)  in joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp.  Oil Installation Security  An attempt by the unions to shut down production “would
not necessarily have an immediate or severe impact on operations
due to the high level of automation in the process, the presence
of non-unionized and foreign workers and tight security at oil
installations,” IHS Global Insight Africa analyst Sebastian Boe
said today in an e-mailed statement.  Crude for February delivery gained as much as $1.46 to
$102.33 a barrel and was trading at $101.84 in electronic
trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at 2:26 p.m. in
London.  Shell is monitoring the situation, said spokesman  Tony Okonedo . “Our priority now is the safety of our staff,
contractors, and our operations,” he said by phone from Lagos.  Gasoline prices in Nigeria, where two-thirds of the
population of about 164 million live on less than $1.25 a day,
more than doubled after Jonathan abolished the subsidy. The
price had been capped at 65 naira a liter, undermining
investment in refineries that forced the West African nation to
import about 70 percent of its fuel.  Creating Jobs  “To subsidize the importation of petroleum products is to
keep refineries in  Europe  and the  Middle East  open; you’re not
creating jobs here in Nigeria,” central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi told Channels TV in Lagos today. “If we continue
spending a trillion or a trillion plus every year and subsidize
fuel for another three to four years, what will happen is that
you run into a huge sovereign debt crisis.”  The cost of the strike to the economy may be more than $1
billion a day, Gregory Kronsten, head of macroeconomic research
at FBN Capital Ltd. in  London , wrote in an e-mailed note today.  Jonathan’s move to abolish the subsidy is key to reforms
needed for an upgrade of Nigeria’s B+ rating, Christian Esters,
a sovereign analyst at  Standard & Poor’s , said by phone from
 Frankfurt  yesterday. S&P raised its outlook on Nigeria’s credit
rating to positive from stable on Dec. 29, indicating it may
upgrade the nation’s rating if the government follows through
with plans to boost the economy and savings.  Cocoa Gains  Cocoa prices have gained 9.4 percent this week in London on
concern the strike will stop shipments from the world’s fourth-
biggest producer of the chocolate ingredient. The labor action
has halted cocoa grading and transportation of the beans from
farms, according to the Cocoa Assocoiation of Nigeria.  Trading in the naira on Nigeria’s interbank market was
limited for a fourth day. The currency was unchanged at 161.91
per dollar, as of 3:12 p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Both the interbank foreign exchange and money market are
effectively closed,”  Leon Myburgh  and Coura Fall,  Africa 
strategists at Citigroup Inc. in Johannesburg, wrote in an e-
mailed note to clients today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  