-- NRC Staff to Lay Out Next Steps on Plant Safety, Official Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-01-12T15:31:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/nrc-staff-to-lay-out-next-steps-on-plant-safety-official-says.html
U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
staff will outline next steps for power-plant safety during a
meeting tomorrow with industry representatives to consider post-
Fukushima recommendations.  The NRC staff tomorrow “will lay out our new approach” to
industry officials during a meeting at the agency’s Rockville,
Maryland, headquarters, spokesman Scott Burnell wrote in a blog
post yesterday.  The regulator’s approach, combined with proposals offered
by the industry last month for additional backup systems, may
improve safety at U.S. plants following the  Japan  crisis,
Burnell said.  The NRC is weighing safety rules for 104 U.S. commercial
reactors after an earthquake and tsunami triggered meltdowns and
radiation leaks at  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501) ’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi
plant in Japan in March. The commission on Dec. 15 approved a
list of priorities for regulatory action, including  steps for
plants to handle power failures.  The industry group plans to discuss its proposal with
regulators tomorrow, Mitch Singer, an spokesman for the
Washington-based  Nuclear Energy Institute , said in an e-mail.  The institute, a Washington-based industry group, last
month proposed helping plants withstand power losses, including
providing access to additional pumps, generators, batteries and
chargers.  “The industry believes the approach will enable greater
safety benefits to be realized in a shorter period of time,”
Adrian Heymer, executive director of strategic programs at the
Washington-based NEI, said in a Dec. 16 letter to David Skeen,
the NRC official in charge of analyzing recommendations stemming
from the Fukushima disaster.  ‘Starting Point’  The industry group’s approach is a “reasonable starting
point, although more work is needed on defining these
strategies,” Burnell said in his blog posting. “We also must
ensure the NRC can inspect how plants put the strategies in
place and that we can hold plants accountable for keeping those
strategies ready and available,” he said.  Flooding destroyed emergency power supplies at Fukushima,
preventing operators from operating the plant’s cooling systems
and avoiding meltdowns. The commission staff also is considering
a requirement that plant owners evaluate seismic and flooding
risks.  NRC Chairman  Gregory Jaczko  wants all rules resulting from
the Japan crisis to be in place by 2016.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  