-- Loans Slump as Highest Costs Since 2008 Send Taiwanese to Bonds
-- B y   K a t r i n a   N i c h o l a s   a n d   J a n e t   O n g
-- 2012-01-12T03:38:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/loans-slump-as-highest-costs-since-2008-send-taiwanese-to-bonds.html
Lending in  Taiwan  slumped to the
lowest level in more than a year last quarter as banks’ cost of
U.S. dollar funds soared to the highest since 2008, driving
companies to the  bond market  for capital.  Syndicated loans in the Asia-Pacific region’s seventh-
biggest economy dropped 28 percent to $7.7 billion in the three
months to Dec. 31 from the third quarter, the least since the
June-to-October 2010 period, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Dollar-denominated bond yields  in Taiwan averaged 5.9
percent in the second half of 2011 versus 5.1 percent in the
first six months as dollar loan margins tripled to 76 basis
points over the same period.  Bank lending costs surged as concern  Europe ’s debt crisis
will escalate widened the gap between the three-month Taifex
rate, a benchmark interbank rate in Taiwan, and the dollar
London interbank offered rate to as much as 159 basis points, or
1.59 percentage points, last quarter, from 24 basis points in
February, the most since September 2008 when the collapse of
 Lehman Brothers Inc . froze credit markets. Domestic company bond
sales in Taiwan rose 33 percent to the equivalent of $10.8
billion last year from 2010, led by Taiwan Power Co. and Taiwan
Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., the world’s largest contract
chipmaker.  “Given high U.S. dollar funding costs, many Taiwanese
banks have actually reduced their dollar lending unless a
borrower is willing to pay a price premium,” Diana Szeto, a
senior vice president of syndicated finance at DBS Bank Ltd.,
the second-biggest non-domestic loan arranger in 2011, said.
“With the Eurozone debt crisis looming in the background, the
outlook for 2012 remains uncertain and possibly bleak.”  Loan Margins  U.S. dollar loan margins in Taiwan averaged 76 basis points
in the second half compared with 25 basis points in the first
six months, according to data on 63 loans tracked by Bloomberg.
Average dollar borrowing costs in Asia outside of Japan and
Taiwan rose to 126 basis points from 121 over the same period,
data on 211 loans show.  “We’re conservative about 2012 because of the tightening
measures in  China  and because there’s still uncertainty over the
debt crisis in Europe,” Emma Yu, a vice president in the
syndicated loans department of Mega International Commercial
Bank Co., a unit of Mega Financial Holding Co., said in a phone
interview from Taipei. “We’re more focused on margins and are
selective about who our customers are. While we want to grow our
business, we want profitability to grow proportionately.”  Mega Financial was the second-biggest arranger of loans
last year with a 10.6 percent market share. Taiwan Cooperative
Bank ranked first with 11.9 percent of the business, and Land
Bank of Taiwan was No. 3 with 9.3 percent.  Libor versus Taifex  Taiwanese banks’ cost for U.S. dollar funds is based on
Taifex rather than Libor. Like Libor, Taifex is quoted daily
based on rates provided by major Taiwanese banks. Libor, a
benchmark for financial products worldwide, is set daily by the
British Bankers’ Association based on data from banks reflecting
how much it would cost them to borrow from each other for
various periods of time.  To compensate lenders for the gap between Taifex and Libor,
some recent syndicated loans include a price floor, according to
DBS’s Szeto. “Going forward, we expect to see more dollar loans
incorporating such features whereby borrowers are obliged to pay
any excess over a pre-agreed level with lenders,” she said in
an interview yesterday.  Loans Slump  Syndicated loan volumes in Taiwan for the full year fell 28
percent to $38.8 billion from $53.9 billion in 2010. Dollar
bonds in Taiwan lost 0.4 percent last year versus a 5.8 percent
negative return in China, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co.
indexes.  “We’re expecting our loans to fall about 5 percent in
2012, as loans to property developers slow,” Yang Li-Wen, an
official at  Land Bank  of Taiwan, said in a phone interview from
Taipei. “Developers will launch fewer housing projects in the
second half as both presidential candidates are vowing to curb
 home prices .”  Land Bank of Taiwan’s syndicated loan business shrunk as
much as 4 percent last year from 2010, which was a record year
for the bank, Yang said.  Taiwan’s President, Ma Ying-jeou, is seeking re-election on
Jan. 14 amid slowing growth, a stock market slump, near-record
home prices and stagnant wages. Both Ma and opposition
Democratic Progressive Party chairwoman Tsai Ing-wen have said
they would introduce a capital gains tax on transactions of
properties to curb speculative buying.  The central bank left  interest rates unchanged  at 1.875
percent for a second straight quarter last month to support
domestic spending as Europe’s sovereign crisis hurts exports and
threatens jobs.  Local-Currency Liquidity  Syndicated loans will be supported in 2012 by refinancing
needs and liquidity in the local-currency market, according to
Benjamin Ng, the head of Asia syndicate and acquisition finance
for  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Citigroup was the top-ranked non-Taiwanese
bank for loans last year.  “It also still makes sense for companies to raise money
from the Taiwanese banks to inject into China because the dollar
liquidity in China is tight, and funding costs and local rates
are high,” Ng said in a phone interview yesterday from  Hong
Kong .  The People’s Bank of China’s benchmark lending rate for
three- to five-year loans is 6.9 percent, rising to 7.05 percent
for borrowing of more than five years.  China will be an important part of Mega International’s
loans business in 2012, according to Yu. Mega received approval
in November to open a branch in Suzhou, a city in the southeast
of Jiangsu province in eastern China.  “We expect to be making loans to Taiwanese companies that
are expanding in the service sectors in China,” Yu said. The
service industry, including restaurants and law firms, is
“taking off” following the June 2010 signing of a trade
agreement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Katrina Nicholas in Singapore at 
 knicholas2@bloomberg.net ;
Janet Ong in Taipei at 
 jong3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  