-- Obama Has Recess Appointment Power: DOJ
-- B y   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-01-12T19:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/obama-has-recess-appointment-power-justice-department-says.html
President  Barack Obama  had the power
to make recess appointments last week when Congress was taking a
brief break, the U.S. Justice Department said in a memo released
after Republican complaints of a “power grab.”  The Constitution and precedent support the conclusion that
the appointments can be made when lawmakers hold pro forma
sessions in which no business is conducted, according to the 23-
page memo written by Assistant Attorney General Virginia Seitz
and released today.  Republican lawmakers criticized Obama’s decision to name a
consumer financial watchdog,  Richard Cordray , and three National
Labor Relations Board members on Jan. 4 during the congressional
recess. They asked the Justice Department to provide information
on whether it offered advice about the legality of the
appointments.  The  Justice Department  memo, to the counsel to the
president, was dated Jan. 6 and said it was putting in writing
and elaborating on advice the department previously provided.
The conclusion was provided orally prior to the appointments,
according to an administration official, who wasn’t authorized
to speak about the matter publicly.  Obama’s recess appointments were supported by Democratic
leaders in the House and Senate and drew rebukes from House
Speaker  John Boehner  of  Ohio  and Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of Kentucky, both Republicans. Boehner on Jan. 4
called the appointment an “extraordinary and entirely
unprecedented power grab” by the president.  Constitutional Power  The Constitution gives presidents the power to make
appointments when the Senate is in recess. Republicans won
bipartisan agreement to keep Congress in pro forma sessions
every three days through the holidays in an attempt to keep
Obama from making recess appointments.  For more than two decades, lawmakers have used the practice
of holding the sessions every three days to head off such
appointments.  Pro forma sessions every three days “do not interrupt”
the recess in a manner that precludes the president from making
recess appointments, Seitz said in the memo.  “The purpose of these sessions avowedly is not to conduct
business; instead, either the Senate has intended to prevent the
president from making recess appointments during its absence or
the House has intended to require the Senate to remain in
session (toward the same end),” Seitz wrote.  Remaining in Session  The Senate could only block the president’s ability to make
recess appointments by “remaining continuously in session and
being available to receive and act on nominations,” according
to the Justice Department memo.  The Justice Department conclusions conflict with the
Constitution’s text and previous Obama administration
statements, said Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the top
Republican on the Senate Judiciary Committee.  “The Senate will need to take action to check and balance
President Obama’s blatant attempt to circumvent the Senate and
the Constitution, a claim of presidential power that the  Bush
administration  refused to make,” Grassley said in a statement.  Obama installed Cordray as head of the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau and appointed three members to the NLRB:
Sharon Block,  Terence Flynn  and  Richard Griffin .  Senate Republicans had delayed consideration of Cordray’s
nomination and said they opposed him because they believe the
bureau’s powers are too broad.  Cordray has agreed to testify before a House Oversight and
Government Reform subcommittee on Jan. 24, according to Becca
Watkins, a committee spokeswoman.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce is considering whether to
challenge Cordray’s appointment in court, David Hirschmann,
president of the group’s Center for Capital Markets
Competitiveness, said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  