-- Obama Starts Clock for Congress to Vote on Raising Federal Debt Ceiling
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n
-- 2012-01-13T05:01:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/obama-sends-congress-notice-to-raise-federal-debt-ceiling.html
President  Barack Obama  asked
Congress for another $1.2 trillion in government borrowing
authority, the third and final request under an August deal with
lawmakers that averted a U.S. default.  The president’s notification to congressional leaders
yesterday starts a 15-day countdown for lawmakers to consider
and vote on a joint resolution disapproving of the increase.  Laena Fallon, a spokeswoman for Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican, said the House is expected to
vote on a resolution on Jan. 18. The Senate, where Democrats
hold a majority, returns to work the following week.  Under legislation passed Aug. 2 after months of negotiating
between the administration and Republican lawmakers, the
president has authority to veto any disapproval resolution that
clears both chambers of Congress.  While the request to raise the debt ceiling is a formality
laid out in last year’s agreement, the national debt will play
into the presidential campaign and congressional races that will
be decided in November. After the economy and jobs, the federal
deficit is among the top concerns mentioned by voters in polls.  A spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner  used the request
to criticize Obama on the budget and the deficit.  “This request is another reminder that the president has
consistently punted on the tough choices needed to rein in the
deficit and protect important programs for American seniors from
going bankrupt,”  Brendan Buck  said in an e-mail.  Budget Deficit  The deficit in fiscal 2011 was $1.3 trillion and the White
House budget office in September forecast it will be $956
billion in the current fiscal year.  Lawmakers rejected a proposal Obama made in September to
trim the nation’s long-term deficit by $3 trillion beyond the $1
trillion that was agreed to as part of the deal to raise the
debt ceiling. Obama plans to reprise those plans as part of his
2013 budget, administration officials said yesterday.  They include raising taxes on the wealthiest Americans,
cuts in Medicare and reductions in so-called mandatory programs
such as  farm subsidies .  Even with the deficit, there was record demand for U.S.
government bonds in 2011, pushing longer-maturity Treasuries to
their best performance since 1995. While  Standard & Poor’s 
stripped the U.S. of its AAA credit rating on Aug. 5 after a
protracted standoff over the debt ceiling, Treasuries due in 10
years or more returned 29 percent last year.  The  yield  on the current  30-year bond  rose one basis point,
or 0.01 percentage point, to 2.97 percent at 5 p.m. in  New York 
yesterday, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Ten-year
yields (USGG10YR)  rose two basis points to 1.92 percent.  Notifying Congress  The law calls for Obama to notify Congress when the debt
came within $100 billion of the current $15.194 trillion limit.  While the threshold was reached Dec. 30, when the president
was in Hawaii and Congress was on holiday break, Obama agreed to
a request from congressional leaders to delay the debt
notification, ensuring the deadline for congressional action
didn’t lapse before lawmakers returned to  Washington .  The debt ceiling increase is to meet commitments already
made by the government. The Treasury Department has been relying
on accounting maneuvers, similar to the ones employed during the
year’s earlier dispute, to ensure that the previous $15.194
trillion limit wasn’t breached.  Since the budget law was approved, the debt limit has been
raised twice, by a total of $900 billion. In the latest request,
the limit would rise to $16.394 trillion, which the Treasury
Department estimates will fund the government until late 2012.  In the last certification vote, the Republican-controlled
House passed a resolution of disapproval, while the Senate
didn’t.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  