-- Obama Nominees Cool Heels as Divided Senate Stalls on Confirmation Votes
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   D w o s k i n
-- 2012-01-12T16:13:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/obama-nominees-cool-heels-as-divided-senate-stalls-on-confirmation-votes.html
In September 2010, President  Barack Obama  nominated New York lawyer Caitlin Halligan to replace  John Roberts  on the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals in  Washington .
Halligan waited for more than a year as her file made its way
through the Senate.  Finally, just before her nomination was about to expire in
December, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat,
brought it to the floor for a vote. Republicans promptly started
a filibuster, putting an end to Halligan’s chances of serving on
the most prestigious federal appeals court.  In all, 181 of Obama’s nominees are waiting to be
confirmed, including his picks for director of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., undersecretary of the Department of
Energy, and Comptroller of the Currency. Seventy-four are
sitting on the Senate calendar, almost twice as many as  George W. Bush  had at the same time in his first term, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Jan. 16 issue.  Naming Richard Cordray as the first director of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau during the Senate break was
the president’s way of short-circuiting the process. Most
nominees aren’t as fortunate as Cordray or the three new members
of the  National Labor Relations Board , also installed while
lawmakers were away. All four have the full authority that comes
with a Senate-confirmed position --- but only until the end of
2013, when the next Congress is sworn in and they are required
to go through the process all over again.  Not Enough Seats  Even though Obama’s  Democratic Party  controls the Senate,
only 57 percent of his 2011 nominees were approved, according to
congressional statistics, compared with 67 percent of those Bush
put up for confirmation from 2007 through 2009, when Democrats
also controlled the Senate.  Democrats don’t have enough seats to stop a Republican
filibuster, and the threat keeps them from putting the picks up
for a vote.  “It is becoming more and more apparent that Republican
obstructionism is an overtly political maneuver to thwart the
president’s agenda,” says Obama spokesman  Eric Schultz .  Sometimes a nominee’s time runs out. That happened to
William Boarman, chosen to head the Government Printing Office.
 His recess appointment expired last month.  Sometimes a candidate withdraws. Obama appointed DoctorDon Berwick, a pediatrician and Harvard Medical School professor, to
lead the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in July 2010
while the Senate was in recess. His appointment was set to
expire at the end of last year. When it became clear in November
that Republicans planned to oppose him, Berwick resigned rather
than face certain defeat.  ‘Pure Spin’  Don Stewart , a spokesman for Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican, calls the White House’s
argument “pure spin,” saying that as a senator, Obama
participated in a filibuster to block Samuel Alito’s Supreme
Court nomination.  Adam Jentleson, Reid’s spokesman, said that while Democrats
used stalling tactics under Bush, “The level of obstructionism
is unprecedented” now.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Dwoskin in Washington at 
 edwoskin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  