-- Mobius Says Nigeria Strike May Cause Substantial Corrections
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-01-13T14:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/mobius-says-nigeria-strike-may-mean-substantial-correction.html
Nigeria ’s benchmark stock index may
extend its 23 percent drop over the past 12 months as national
strikes disrupt oil exports from Africa’s largest producer,
investor  Mark Mobius  said.  President  Goodluck Jonathan ’s abolition of a fuel subsidy
on Jan. 1 more than doubled gasoline prices and triggered a
national strike, now in its fifth day. Labor unions have
threatened to shut down production in Africa’s biggest oil
industry. The strike has limited trade in stocks and the naira,
closed ports and banks and sparked street protests.  “We could have some very substantial corrections as a
result of these moves, particularly if the unions succeed in
cutting off the exports of petroleum,” Mobius, who helps
oversee about $40 billion as executive chairman of  Franklin
Templeton  Investment’s Emerging Markets Group, said yesterday in
a phone interview from Cancun,  Mexico .  The value of trading today on the  Nigerian Stock Exchange 
was 388 million naira ($2.4 million), according to figures on
the bourse’s website. Normal trading is 2 billion naira a day,
Samuel Onukwue, managing director of Mega Equities Ltd., a
Lagos-based brokerage, said by phone yesterday.  The benchmark  All-Share Index (NGSEINDX)  declined 0.2 percent to
20,840.97, according to a statement from the exchange. The MSCI
Emerging Markets Index fell 18 percent during the past 12
months, while the MSCI World Index of developed-country shares
fell 6.9 percent in the same period. The Nigerian benchmark lost
16 percent in 2011.  Food Producers  “We recommend greater exposure to staple food producers as
we expect their operations to pick up quickly once the strike is
over,” Stanbic IBTC Bank Plc analysts led by Lagos-based
Adenrele Adesina wrote in a report today. “We believe limited
exposure to producers of discretionary products” and “in this
context, we are underweight  Nigerian Breweries Plc (NB) ,  Guinness
Nigeria Plc (GUINNESS)  and  PZ Cussons Nigeria Plc. (PZ) ”  Nigeria’s biggest labor federations will halt street
protests this weekend while maintaining their nationwide strike
to give negotiators time to end a dispute over fuel subsidies,
the Nigeria Labour Congress said. The main oil workers’ union
will meet tomorrow to decide whether to proceed with plans
scheduled to start on Jan. 15 to try to shut down fields,
Babatunde Oke, the Pengassan union’s spokesman, said.  Nigeria can’t continue with subsidies “otherwise the
country is not going to progress,” said Mobius. “The problem
that Nigeria has is that is they’re in a crazy situation where
they are exporting oil and importing diesel.”  Investment Plans  Jonathan plans to use 1.2 trillion naira in savings from
the subsidy to invest in  power plants , roads and other
infrastructure projects. The west African nation imports about
70 percent of its fuel because of a lack of refining capacity.  Nigeria needs investment in refineries and power plants to
expand its economy, Mobius said. “A few months ago I was in
Lagos and I got stuck in an elevator in a hotel a few times;
that’s because they’re running on diesel generators,” he said.
“If you’re having a problem in a hotel in Lagos can you imagine
the problems they’re having in other parts of the country with
the shortage of electricity.”  Franklin Templeton has holdings in Nigerian banks,
breweries and cement producers, including  Dangote Cement Plc (DANGCEM) ,
the nation’s largest company by market value, Guinness Nigeria
and  Zenith Bank Plc (ZENITHBA) .  “We’re not too worried because we’re longer term in our
views and approach to the market,” said Mobius. “If the
government is able to stick to its guns it’ll be a positive.”  Standard & Poor’s  raised its outlook on Nigeria’s credit
rating to positive from stable on Dec. 29, indicating it may
upgrade the nation’s B+ rating, if the government follows
through with reforms to boost the economy and savings. Nigeria’s
current rating is four steps below investment grade, the same
rank as Egypt and Uganda.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  