-- Ocado Surges as Christmas Sales Increase on Own-Label Items
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-12T16:56:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/ocado-surges-as-christmas-season-sales-climb-on-own-label-gains.html
Ocado Group Plc (OCDO) , the U.K.’s largest
online-only grocer, surged 33 percent in London trading as
revenue accelerated in the Christmas season led by sales of its
own-label items.  Sales rose 16 percent to 59 million pounds ($90.5 million)
in the four weeks ended Dec. 25, the Hatfield, England-based
retailer said in a statement today. That compares with a 10.8
percent increase in the fourth quarter.  The shares rose 18.55 pence to 74 pence in London, the
biggest gain since the initial public offering in July 2010.
Ocado has dropped 59 percent since the IPO, valuing the company
at 413.3 million pounds.  Ocado said sales of its lower-priced own-label lines rose
88 percent. Last month it forecast full-year profit would be
less than analysts’ estimates, hurt by capacity constraints at
its Hatfield distribution center and the employment of extra
staff to boost order fulfillment.  “Ocado reported an encouraging Christmas trading update,”
JPMorgan Cazenove analyst Paul Diamond said in a report. He has
a “neutral” recommendation. “The operating model isn’t broken
but simply behind schedule,” he said. “We have higher
conviction on the business’ ability to ramp up growth once
capacity improvements are made in the coming months.”  The retailer, which is mostly supplied by grocer  Waitrose
Ltd. , also has had to contend with increased promotions at
competitors such as the  J Sainsbury Plc (SBRY)  Brand Match campaign and
 Tesco Plc (TSCO) ’s Big Price Drop.  Encouraging December  “This was encouraging trading for December as a whole and
particularly the seven days to Christmas,” Chief Financial
Officer Andrew Bracey said in the statement.  Last month, Ocado said earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization were 27.5 million pounds to 28.5
million pounds in the year ended Nov. 27. The company is
scheduled to report full results Jan. 31.  Christmas sales “are extremely strong, stronger than
anyone else,” Bracey said in a phone interview. “We are seeing
our customers being slightly more cautious. Own-label sales are
nearly 90 percent up, but we’re also seeing our customers treat
themselves more,” with products like the Daylesford Organic
range surging over 150 percent, he said. “So we’re seeing a bit
of polarization in the customers’ behavior.”  The executive said analysts are  expecting  sales growth
“will get up to 20 percent” at the end of the year, though he
forecast the revenue increase in the first quarter will be “in
line” with the 11 percent growth of the earlier period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in  London  at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  