-- Oil India Said to Study Possible Purchase of Cove Energy
-- B y   R a k t e e m   K a t a k e y   a n d   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r
-- 2012-01-12T17:38:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/oil-india-said-to-study-possible-purchase-of-u-k-s-cove-energy.html
Oil India Ltd. (OINL) ,  India ’s second-
biggest state-owned energy explorer, is considering a possible
purchase of  Cove Energy Plc (COV) , which has assets in east  Africa ,
said two people with knowledge of the matter.  Oil India is studying documents related to the U.K. company
that put itself up for sale last week, the people said, asking
not to be identified because they’re not authorized to discuss
the process. Bids for London-based Cove may exceed $1.2 billion,
one of the people said. Cove has a market value of 620 million
pounds ($950 million).  Indian companies are looking across the world for oil and
gas deposits to secure supplies as demand grows at home. Cove,
in which BlackRock Inc. has a  stake , is part-owner of a field in
 Mozambique  that may hold enough gas to be converted into liquid
form and shipped to countries including India,  Asia ’s second-
fastest growing major economy.  “Indian companies would be very interested in Cove because
of the large gas reserves in Mozambique,” said Rina Sanghavi, a
Kolkata-based research analyst at SPA Securities Ltd. “India
needs gas to meet shortages and Mozambique is near enough to
bring the gas to India.”  Oil India Chairman N.M. Borah didn’t answer two calls made
to his mobile phone seeking comment on the possible deal. A Cove
spokesman declined to comment.  The Indian explorer  rose  1.9 percent to 1,124.2 rupees in
Mumbai, its biggest gain since Dec. 15. The benchmark  Sensitive
Index (SENSEX)  fell 0.9 percent. Cove climbed 4.6 percent to 129.75 pence
in  London .  Chinese Competition  Cove, which advanced 20 percent in 2011, jumped another 11
percent on Jan. 5, when it put itself up for sale. The shares
closed at a record 128.5 pence on Jan. 10 before falling to 124
pence in London yesterday. BlackRock, the world’s largest asset
manager, has a  7.6 percent  stake in Cove, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil India may face competition from Chinese buyers, one of
the people said, without naming the companies. The Indian
company has 135 billion rupees ($2.6 billion) in cash and is
seeking to use part of the reserves to acquire oil and gas
deposits outside the country, Finance Director T.K. Ananth Kumar
said Nov. 14.  LNG Plant  Cove holds an  8.5 percent  stake in the Rovuma Area 1 off
Mozambique, which is operated by Anadarko Petroleum Corp., and
has India’s  Bharat Petroleum Corp. (BPCL)  and Videocon Industries Ltd.
as partners, according to the company’s website. The partners
have found 15 trillion to 30 trillion cubic feet of recoverable
gas, enough to support the setting up of a liquefied natural gas
production facility.  The U.K. explorer opened its data room last month to
bidders interested in its Mozambique project. Cove is also
working with Total SA of France and  BG Group Plc (BG/)  to search for
oil and gas off Kenya and with Etablissements Maurel & Prom SA
in Tanzania.  Oil India has held talks with Gabon’s national oil company
for a partnership to buy Maurel’s assets in the African nation,
two people with direct knowledge of the matter said Oct. 25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rakteem Katakey in  New Delhi  at 
 rkatakey@bloomberg.net ;
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net ;
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  