-- Oil Futures Head for Weekly Decline on Plans to Delay Iranian Embargo
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u   a n d   G r a n t   S m i t h
-- 2012-01-13T13:14:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/oil-drops-as-eu-embargo-of-iran-said-likely-to-be-delayed-by-six-months.html
Oil headed for its biggest weekly
decline in a month on signs that the European Union may delay
the enforcement of a ban on Iranian oil imports.  Futures have lost 2.3 percent this week after a European
Union official said sanctions on  Iran  may be postponed by six
months to allow some countries to find alternative petroleum
supplies. The measures are also likely to include an exemption
for  Italy  so crude can be sold to pay off debts to Eni SpA, the
nation’s largest oil company, the official said.  “I think it’s in no one’s interests for this to escalate
beyond words, which will probably keep tension high,” said
 Michael Hewson , an analyst at CMC Markets in London, which
handles about $240 million a day in U.S. crude contracts. “Any
flare-up in the Straits of Hormuz would obviously send oil
spiking sharply but that would be something that both parties
would want to avoid.”  Crude for February delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  was at $98.98 at 12:59 p.m. London time. The contract
yesterday fell $1.77 to $99.10, the lowest close since Dec. 30.  Brent oil for February settlement fell 61 cents to $110.65
a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark contract’s premium to West Texas Intermediate
futures was at $11.67, compared with a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.
Brent February futures’ premium over the March contract was 7
cents, after briefly falling to zero.  Upside Risk Increasing  Oil gained as much as 1.1 percent earlier today after
Nigerian labor unions said they will continue a strike that
threatens oil exports from  Africa ’s top producer.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the risk of higher  oil prices 
in 2012 is “increasingly skewed to the upside.” The risk of
oil prices rising in 2012 is increasing amid the threat of
supply disruptions and shrinking spare capacity in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, Goldman Sachs
said in a research note today.  “Risks to the upside in oil are substantially greater
given the stronger fundamentals and recent events surrounding
Iran and  Nigeria ,” the bank said. “We continue to see a strong
case for crude oil fundamentals tightening further in 2012.”  Oil prices could rise to $150 to $200 a barrel if the
 Strait of Hormuz  is closed, or they could plunge to $50 if the
global economy worsens significantly, former OPEC President
Chakib Khelil said. OPEC members including  Saudi Arabia  would be
able to make up for a drop in Iranian supplies to Europe, Khelil
said today in a Bloomberg Television interview in London.  Nigeria Strikes  “It should be possible to replace, at least, the European
consumption of Iranian oil,” Khelil said. This year will be
“exceptional” for global oil markets, partly because of
disruption in Nigeria, he said.  The U.S. government has warned Iran that closing the Strait
of Hormuz would provoke an American response, the New York Times
reported, citing unidentified U.S. officials.  Nigeria’s general strike entered its fifth day after
President Goodluck Jonathan and labor leaders failed to end a
dispute over fuel subsidies. Jonathan and union leaders will
resume talks tomorrow after holding “fruitful” negotiations
yesterday in Abuja, the capital, Abdulwaheed Omar, president of
the Nigeria Labour Congress, told reporters.  The March Brent contract in  London  was at $110.58 a barrel,
7 cents below February futures. The difference between the two
briefly shrank to zero. The second-month contract hasn’t settled
above the first month since Aug. 8.  Short-term supplies were more expensive than later
contracts, a price structure known as backwardation, for most of
2011 because of the cessation of exports from  Libya , which
produces a type of crude comparable to Brent.  New York oil may fall next week on concern that the  U.S.
economy  is slowing, curbing fuel demand in the largest crude-
consuming country, a Bloomberg News survey showed.  Fifteen of 30 analysts, or 50 percent, forecast oil will
decline through Jan. 20. Ten respondents, or 33 percent,
predicted prices will increase and five estimated there will be
little change. Last week, 47 percent of surveyed analysts
expected a decrease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  