-- Oil Drops as EU Embargo of Iran Said Likely to Be Delayed by Six Months
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u   a n d   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-01-12T22:28:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/oil-rises-from-lowest-2012-level-on-nigerian-strike-and-iran.html
Oil dropped the most in two weeks
after a proposed European Union embargo of Iranian oil imports
was said likely to be delayed for six months.  Crude fell 1.8 percent on the postponement that will allow
countries such as Greece,  Italy  and Spain to find alternative
supplies, according to an EU official with knowledge of the
talks. Futures surged above $103 a barrel this month to the
highest level since May as Iran threatened to block the Strait
of Hormuz if an embargo was imposed.  “The EU-Iran news is sending prices lower,” said  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group Inc., a consulting company
in Villanova,  Pennsylvania . “Once the Iran headlines came out,
the dam burst. The bulls are now in panic mode.”  Crude for February delivery tumbled $1.77 to settle at
$99.10 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Prices have
risen 7.9 percent in the past year. Bullish traders, or  hedge
funds  and other investors that bet prices will rise as Middle
East tension escalates, have pushed up  oil prices  by 16 percent
in the past three months.  Futures declined 2.1 percent in eight minutes on the EU-
 Iran  news, reversing an earlier gain. Oil continued to fall in
electronic trading after the Nymex settlement at 2:30 p.m. in
New York and touched $98.50 a barrel, the lowest intraday price
since Dec. 29.  Brent oil fell 98 cents, or 0.9 percent, to $111.26 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures Europe exchange. It
traded as high as $115.12, the most since Nov. 9, before
dropping as low as $110.31.  Proposed Ban  The embargo, which would need to be agreed upon by the 27
nation-bloc’s foreign ministers on Jan. 23, is also likely to
include an exemption for Italy so crude can be sold to pay off
debts to Rome-based  Eni SpA (ENI) , Italy’s largest oil company,
according to the official, who declined to be identified because
the talks are private.  A ban on petrochemical products would start sooner, about
three months after ministers agree to the measure, the official
said.  “Geopolitics reign supreme,” said  Adam Sieminski , chief
energy economist at Deutsche Bank AG in  Washington . “We had a
pretty big intraday move, almost $5 from the top to the bottom
today.”  Options giving the right to sell June futures for $10 a
barrel less than their current price cost 9 percent more than
those granting the right to buy at $10 above today’s settlement.  Phasing-In  The phasing-in of the embargoes would satisfy the concerns
of countries with the largest dependence on Iranian oil,
including Italy,  Greece  and Spain, the official said. Those
three countries accounted for 68.5 percent of EU imports from
Iran in 2010, according to European Commission data.  “The European Union could not take a stand and implement
an oil embargo of Iran because a number of the states rely on
Iranian crude oil,” said Jason Schenker, president of Prestige
Economics LLC, an Austin, Texas-based energy consultant.  France,  Germany  and the U.K. have been pushing for the
embargo to increase pressure on Iran over its nuclear program
and it has the support in principle of all 27 member states, the
official said.  Western countries allege that Iran’s nuclear-development
plans are aimed at building atomic weapons. Iran says they are
for civilian purposes and to generate electricity.  “We drew a line in the sand and now we are kind of erasing
it,” said Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder
of Iitrader.com in Chicago. “This has caught everybody off
guard.”  U.S. Strategy  The U.S. wants to reduce Iran’s oil revenue in part by
convincing countries Iran is no longer a reliable source of oil,
an administration official, who wasn’t authorized to speak on
the record, told reporters in Washington today. The official
said that India and  China  are seeking to broaden their sources
of oil beyond Iran.  Japanese Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  said today that the
country, the world’s second-biggest importer of Iranian crude,
may reduce purchases as part of an effort to limit Iran’s
nuclear development.  “We want to take concrete steps to reduce our share in an
orderly way as soon as possible,” Azumi said at a press
conference in  Tokyo  today after discussions with U.S. Treasury
Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. “The world cannot tolerate
nuclear development.”  The Persian Gulf country conducted naval exercises near the
 Strait of Hormuz , the waterway through which almost 20 percent
of the world’s oil flows, for 10 days ended early this month.  Iran, the second biggest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries after  Saudi Arabia , pumped 3.58
million barrels a day in December, according to Bloomberg
estimates.  Nigerian Strike  Oil gained as much as 2.1 percent earlier on concern that a
strike in Nigeria will curb supplies from Africa’s largest oil-
producing country.  Labor unions said today they will continue the action that
threatens oil exports after no agreement was reached at a
meeting today with President Goodluck Jonathan on restoring fuel
subsidies. The unions plan to resume talks with the president on
Jan. 14, Abdulwaheed Omar, president of the Nigeria Labour
Congress, said in an e-mailed statement.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 691,231
contracts as of 5:15 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 627,037
yesterday, 4.2 percent above the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.38 million contracts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 mzhou29@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  