-- Tokyo Office Rent Falls to Record Low
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   C h u   a n d   K a t s u y o   K u w a k o
-- 2012-01-12T03:16:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/tokyo-office-rent-falls-to-record-low.html
Tokyo’s office  rent  fell 3.7 percent
in 2011 from a year earlier to a record low as vacancy rates
remained high, according to Miki Shoji Co., an office brokerage
company.  Rents in  Japan ’s capital, which have dropped every month
for more than three years, declined to 16,932 yen ($220) per
tsubo (35.5 square feet) on average in December from 17,585 yen
a year ago, according to data compiled by the Tokyo-based firm.
The vacancy rate in the city rose to 9.01 percent in December
from 8.91 percent a year earlier, it showed.  Landlords are competing to fill space in Japan’s capital
with supply expected to reach the highest since 2006, according
to a survey by  Mori Building Co. (MBDZ)  New office space will rise 12
percent to 1.54 million square meters (16.6 million square feet)
this year, matching the level in 2006, the survey said.  “Rents may keep declining this year as landlords seek to
improve the occupancy rate,” said  Takashi Ishizawa , a Tokyo-
based property analyst at Mizuho Securities Co. “We may see
rents bottoming in the second half as the supply of new
buildings slows.”  The vacancy rate has remained above 8 percent for the past
two years, reaching a record 9.19 percent in March, when Japan
was struck by a magnitude-9 earthquake, according to Miki Shoji.
It started to climb in 2008, prompting rents to decline. Rents
are now at the lowest since Miki Shoji started compiling data in
1990. A tsubo is a standard measure of property area in Japan.  Prime Buildings  The Topix Real Estate Index (TPREAL)  fell 1 percent, the biggest
decline in two weeks, at the trading break in  Tokyo . The Tokyo
Stock Exchange REIT Index fell 0.4 percent.  The vacancy rate for prime office buildings, which command
the highest rents, may rise because of an increase in supply
this year and as uncertainties over the global economy loom,
said Andy Hurfurt, Tokyo-based executive director of CBRE Group
Inc., the world’s biggest real-estate broker.  The vacancy rate for Grade-A office buildings may increase
to 6 percent in 2012, compared with 4.6 percent in the third
quarter of 2011, Hurfurt said. Rents may decline 5 percent this
year, after dropping 5.2 percent in 2011, he said.  Higher vacancies “will keep landlords relatively flexible
on rents,” said Hurfurt.  Profits at developers including  Mitsubishi Estate Co. (8802) , the
owner of about 30 buildings in Marunouchi, Tokyo’s most
expensive business district, and Mitsui Fudosan co., Japan’s
biggest developer, fell as rents declined.  Developers Suffer  Mitsubishi Estate’s leasing revenue dropped 6.6 percent,
sending profit from its building business 18 percent lower to 61
billion yen for the six months ended Sept. 30 from a year ago.
Mitsui Fudosan’s leasing income fell 2.7 percent in same period.  A shortage of higher-end buildings may help boost rents
later this year,  Masahiro Mochizuki , a Tokyo-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG, said in a report dated Jan. 10.  “We forecast an increase in rents for new tenants in the
Marunouchi area in the second half of 2012,” Mochizuki said.
“A shortage of A-class buildings will emerge in the summer and
we expect an upturn in Tokyo office rents, starting with the
Marunouchi area.”  Japan’s property market became active in the middle of last
year, as tenants sought buildings with better seismic resistance
after the earthquake, CBRE’s Hurfurt said.  “Uncertainties over  Europe , questions about the recovery
of the  U.S. economy  and the strength of the yen” weighed on the
market toward the end of the year, said Hurfurt. “That
situation hasn’t changed.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Chu in Tokyo at 
 kchu2@bloomberg.net ;
Katsuyo Kuwako in Tokyo at 
 kkuwako@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  