-- Toll-Road Woes Show Risk of Loans Lawmakers Aim to Expand
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-01-13T01:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/toll-road-woes-show-risk-of-u-s-loans-lawmakers-aim-to-expand.html
Democratic and Republican leaders in
Congress are united in pushing an eightfold boost to a loan
program designed to attract private highway funding, even as
revenue gaps in existing projects may cause taxpayer losses.  Of the six open highways backed by the Transportation
Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act, one reorganized in
bankruptcy at an upfront cost to taxpayers of $79.5 million; a
second probably needs its debt restructured; and the rating on a
third is six notches below investment grade, according to Fitch
Ratings reports and government records.  A Senate panel led by California Democrat  Barbara Boxer 
has approved a proposal to increase TIFIA’s funding to $1
billion a year and allow it to cover almost half of a project’s
costs. Representative  John Mica , a Florida Republican who leads
the House transportation committee, has said he plans to press
for a similar measure to help offset a six-year decline in tax
revenue for new roads.  “People are treating this like it’s free money, but it
isn’t, and it’s not without risk,” said Robert Puentes, an
analyst with the Washington-based  Brookings Institution , a
nonprofit public-policy organization. “The risk involved here
is a sleeper issue which needs to get much more attention as
they move to expand the program.”  TIFIA is among more than 100 U.S. programs that have
provided or guaranteed $2.7 trillion of loans, financing
everything from veterans’ mortgages and rural businesses to
foreign airlines’ purchases of  Boeing Co. (BA)  jetliners and new
energy companies such as Solyndra LLC, the solar-panel maker
whose bankruptcy drew scrutiny of government lending policies.  Loan Losses  While TIFIA hasn’t had defaults to date, the estimated
subsidy for fiscal 2012 needed to cover losses was set at 9.5
percent, according to the White House Office of Management and
Budget.  U.S. banks , by comparison, held loss reserves of 2.69
percent as of Sept. 30, according to Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp. data analyzed by Bloomberg.  Its default rate was projected at 41.4 percent, of which
about 45 percent will be recovered, OMB documents show. The
office defines default rate as the estimated lifetime amount of
nonpayment as a percentage of loan amounts.  That compares with a 45.6 percent default rate estimated
for the Energy Department program that backed  Solyndra (SOLY) .  When, Not If  In its 12 years of operation, TIFIA has used $8.6 billion
in U.S. funding to attract more than $33 billion in additional
government and private investment, without a missed loan
payment, Chris Bertram, the Transportation Department’s chief
financial officer, said in an e-mail.  “The TIFIA program has a long history of making possible
critical, large-scale transportation projects, while providing
careful and transparent oversight to ensure that government
funding is used wisely,” Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood
said in an e-mail.  TIFIA’s portfolio is difficult to assess, though, as 
investors can borrow for as long as 35 years and delay payment
of principal or interest for at least five years after
construction is “substantially completed,” according to the
program’s website.  Only five loans are in the repayment stage, said Justin Nisly, a Transportation Department spokesman. There are 20 loans
outstanding, according to TIFIA’s website.  “With TIFIA projects it’s generally not a question of if
it will get repaid. It’s more of a question of when,” said
Matthew Hobby, director of utility and infrastructure ratings at
 Standard & Poor’s . That makes it different than the Energy
Department’s program for companies like Solyndra, he said.  ‘The True Question’  A loan to a joint venture between Irving, Texas-based  Fluor
Corp. (FLR)  and Melbourne-based  Transurban Group (TCL)  in December 2007
doesn’t require interest payments until 2018 or principal payments
until 2033. The loan was intended to help build high-occupancy toll
lanes on Washington’s Beltway.  The department’s default and reserve estimates may be too
dire, said Bryan Grote, a co-founder of Philadelphia-based
Mercator Advisors LLC, which advises on infrastructure projects,
and the head of TIFIA from its inception until 2001.  “It’s hard to say what the long-term true riskiness and
cost to the government of those loans might be,” Grote said.  Fifteen of the program’s 20 outstanding loans are on toll
roads, tunnels or bridges.  South Bay   Toll-road revenue is vulnerable to a slowdown in truck
traffic, increases in gasoline prices and unemployment,
Brookings’ Puentes said. Traffic volume on U.S. roads and
streets declined 1.4 percent, or 36 billion vehicle miles, in
the first 10 months of 2011 from the same period a year earlier,
according to the  Federal Highway Administration .  With revenue under pressure, operators have been
“reluctant to raise their toll rates enough to protect their
financial profile,”  Maria Matesanz , a senior vice president at
Moody’s Investors Service in  New York , wrote in a Sept. 20
report.  Revenue on San Diego’s South Bay Expressway, managed by
affiliates of  Australia ’s  Macquarie Group Ltd. (MQG) , was half the
initial projection in 2009, its second full year of operation,
as anticipated construction near the road failed to materialize,
according to the operators’ bankruptcy filing. They sought
Chapter 11 protection in March 2010, before any payments on the
TIFIA loan were due, according to court records.  Housing Slowdown  New residential construction in the San Diego region
declined by 83 percent to 343 starts in June 2009 from 1,985 in
June 2006, according to the Construction Industry Research
Board, a Burbank, California, research group.  The  bankruptcy court  “imposed a loss of 42 percent on
federal taxpayers,” according to a report issued Jan. 9 by the
 Congressional Budget Office . “The South Bay Expressway
illustrates what can happen to taxpayers as the ultimate equity
holders.”  The transportation department expects to recover 90 percent
of the original loan of $140 million by 2042, according to
documents on TIFIA’s website. The recovery rate may reach 100
percent, Nisly said.  Macquarie declined to comment, said Paula Chirhart, a
company spokeswoman.  Specter of Nonpayment  In Louisiana, a $66 million TIFIA loan granted in 2005 for
improvements on the LA 1 toll bridge and highway near  Port
Fourchon  was downgraded in June to B- from BB by Fitch. The new
rating is six levels below investment grade.  Truck traffic on the bridge was 45 percent of initial
projections, reflecting reduced offshore oil-drilling activity
following the BP Plc spill, Fitch said in a June 21 statement.  A $78.5 million state loan on the project was in violation
of its covenants in 2010. Even doubling tolls wouldn’t help meet
covenants beyond the short term, Fitch said.  “There is a real possibility of a nonpayment on the TIFIA
debt in the next two to three years absent a debt
restructuring,” Scott Zuchorski, a Fitch analyst in New York,
said in the report.  The transportation department’s review process includes “a
requirement that all loans have an investment grade credit
rating and a dedicated repayment source,” Bertram said.  The investment-grade rating is required only if a TIFIA
loan is the senior or sole debt, according to the program’s web
site. When TIFIA loans are subordinate to other debt, they must
have “a rating,” according to the website.  Investment Grade  The transportation department approved a $150 million
mezzanine loan initially assessed by Fitch in 2006 at BB+, one
notch below investment grade, for the Pocahontas 895 parkway in
 Virginia  to help refinance debt and build a connecting toll road
to Richmond’s airport. The road is operated by Melbourne-based
Transurban.  Pocahontas’ senior debt is rated B- by Fitch, according to
a Transurban investor presentation filed Dec. 6 with the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  “Pocahontas has underperformed original expectations,”
Michelle Holland, a Transurban spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.
Revenue should improve the longer the road is open, she said.  Still, with fuel- tax revenue  to pay for such transportation
projects falling, lawmakers are looking to the private sector
for additional funding. Every dollar the U.S. provides for TIFIA
loans would result in about $30 for highway, bridge and transit
projects when combined with private money, according to the
transportation department.  ‘Sliced Bread’  Kate Gilman, a spokeswoman for Boxer, who heads the Senate
Environment & Public Works Committee, didn’t comment for the
story. Mica declined to comment, said Justin Harclerode, his
spokesman.  Republicans, including Mica, have said expanding TIFIA
should be an alternative to President Barack Obama’s
infrastructure bank proposal and similar plans developed by the
Senate. Those aren’t “going anywhere” in Congress, LaHood said
Oct. 13.  “There is a starry-eyed political argument that you can
spend without taxing,” said  Phineas Baxandall , an analyst with
U.S. PIRG, a federation of state public interest groups, based
in  Boston . “Politicians think of this program as the best thing
since sliced bread.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Wolf in  Washington  at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net ;
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  