-- MoMA Visitors Fall, Met Museum’s Rise, Led by Blockbusters
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-01-12T17:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/moma-attendance-falls-met-museum-rises-driven-by-blockbusters.html
Attendance at the Museum of  Modern
Art  dropped 11 percent last season to 2.8 million, as the
previous year’s marathon motionlessness of  Marina Abramovic  and
designs from movie director Tim Burton proved to be hard acts to
follow.  At the  Metropolitan Museum  of Art, admissions rose to a
record 5.6 million last season, buoyed by the wild outfits and
accessories of the late fashion designer  Alexander McQueen . Both
museums have released annual reports and financial statements
for the year ending in June 2011.  “We may be seeing a return to the era of the
blockbuster,” said Lisa Dennison, a Sotheby’s executive and
former director of New York’s Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum.  The ups and downs at  New York ’s two largest art museums
underscore how general-interest spectacles can boost attendance.
The Met’s 1978 King Tut exhibition, sometimes credited as the
first museum blockbuster, remains its most popular, with 1.3
million visitors. The 660,000 people who saw “Alexander
McQueen: Savage Beauty” made it the 141-year-old museum’s
eighth-most-popular exhibition.  The Burton show, which ran from November 2009 to April 2010
and included drawings, paintings and sculptures by the director
of “Edward Scissorhands,” was MoMA’s third-most popular ever,
with 810,511 visitors.  That contributed to a record 3.1 million visiting MoMA in
2009-2010. In addition to Abramovic (who sat without moving for
seven hours each day) and her team of performance artists, many
of them nude, the season included the work of South African
artist William Kentridge and photographer Henri Cartier-Bresson.  ‘Secret Is Balance’  Dennison described MoMA’s acclaimed 2010 Matisse show and
the de Kooning retrospective that closed on Monday as more
demanding of viewers than the “experiential” Burton exhibit.  “There is a temptation to do exhibits that are crowd
pleasers or blockbusters,” she said, speaking of museums
generally. “The secret is balance.”  Attendance is key for administrators, she said: It affects
box office and revenue from food, retail and membership.  “When I was at the Guggenheim, we looked at attendance
every week,” she said.  The Met and MoMA appear to have bounced back from the
recession, according to their financial statements. The Met,
which cut 14 percent of staff in 2008-09, had a $1.3 million
operating surplus last season. Membership income rose 7 percent
to a record $25.5 million. It’s taking over the Whitney Museum
of American Art’s uptown outpost for at least eight years,
beginning in 2015, when that museum moves to new quarters in the
city’s Meatpacking District.  Harold Holzer, a Met spokesman, said there’s renewed
emphasis in showcasing its permanent collection. He noted that
the renovated Islamic art galleries reopened in November. A new
American wing opens Jan. 16.  Looking to Expand  MoMA, with a $2.7 million surplus last season, bought the
building of the neighboring  American Folk Art Museum (78380MF)  to expand.
Kim Mitchell, a MoMA spokesman, said results last season matched
the museum’s expectations. It projects attendance to be little
changed this season.  Both museums raised prices 25 percent last year, to $25.
The Met’s admission is “suggested,” while at MoMA Friday
nights are free and teenagers 16 and under don’t pay unless in
groups. MoMA also offers an online discount.  While pointing out that museum admissions have generally
risen in New York in recent years, Mitchell said the
institutions “continue to be a strong value, especially when
compared to more expensive cultural options such as Broadway
theater and the  performing arts .”  MoMA’s investments gained 17.5 percent in the year ending
in June 2011 to $748 million, its annual report said. The Met’s
portfolio advanced 20.1 percent to $2.6 billion. U.S. endowments
and foundations gained an average 20 percent in that period,
according to Wilshire Associates, a consultant.  To contact the writer of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 