-- Home Retail Says Argos Sales Slump, Expects to Cut Dividend
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r   a n d   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-01-12T08:44:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/home-retail-reports-argos-sales-slump-expects-to-cut-dividend.html
Home Retail Group Plc (HOME) , the U.K.
owner of the Argos and Homebase chains, forecast a drop in
annual profit after holiday sales slumped and said it plans a
“significant”  dividend cut.   Benchmark pretax profit, a measure that excludes some
items, will “be around the mid-point of the current analyst
range” of 78 million pounds ($120 million) to 125 million
pounds, the company said today in a  statement . The retailer
earned 254 million pounds on the same basis a year earlier.  Argos same-store sales fell 8.8 percent in the 18 weeks
ended Dec. 31, hurt by competition from supermarkets including
Tesco and Web retailers such as Amazon.com Inc. The chain was
targeted by Wal-Mart Stores Inc.’s Asda in a holiday advertising
campaign that compared prices on toys and responded by offering
50 percent discounts on 1,000 items, reducing profitability. The
quarter over Christmas is Argos’s busiest period of the year.  “Third-quarter trading was every bit as bad as feared,”
 Simon Irwin , an analyst at  Liberum Capital  in  London , wrote in a
note. “We see few signs of improvement in the environment in
the year ahead.” Irwin has a “sell” rating on the stock.  Home Retail, based in  Milton Keynes ,  England , fell as much
as 4.7 percent to 83.15 pence in London trading. The stock,
which traded at 83.95 pence at 8:24 a.m., ended 2011 as the
third-worst performer in the  FTSE 350 General Retailers Index .  Dividend Cut  “Argos sales continue to be impacted by the market decline
in consumer electronics categories,” Chief Executive Officer
Terry Duddy said in the statement, describing the trading
environment as volatile and demanding. “We will continue to
plan cautiously.” He expects Argos’s comparable sales to fall 8
percent this year, he said today on a conference call. Analysts
had anticipated a 9 percent drop in Argos same-store sales in
the latest period.  Same-store revenue at the Homebase home-improvement chain
fell 2.6 percent in the 18-week period, more than the 1 percent
decline analysts predicted, as “big ticket” sales slid.  The company will “focus on managing robustly both the cost
base and the cash position of the group,” it said, leading to a
potential “significant” cut in the dividend. Home Retail’s
full-year dividend was 14.7 pence last year, the same amount
paid out since 2008, according to  Bloomberg data .  ‘Costly, Hard and Painful’  Home Retail also said today that it would close its four
U.K. homewares trial stores, HomeStore&More, at a cost of about
10 million pounds. The charge will not be included in benchmark
pretax profit this year, it said.  “The company will need to go through a costly, hard and
painful restructuring operation, involving significant store
closures at Argos and, possibly, a rights issue,”  Philip Dorgan , an analyst at Panmure Gordon in London, wrote today in a
note to clients.  The company recently acquired the Habitat brand in the U.K.
including three of the furniture retailer’s London stores. The
retailer announced last year plans to start a multichannel
operation in  China  via a joint venture with Haier Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in London 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  