-- Omnicare, Los Angeles Dodgers, Renault, Saudi Binladen Group in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-12T13:00:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/omnicare-los-angeles-dodgers-renault-saudi-binladen-group-in-court-news.html
Wynn Resorts Ltd. (WYNN)  Vice Chairman
Kazuo Okada sued the casino operator for access to financial
records in a dispute with the company over the use of funds.  Okada, 69, filed the complaint in state court in Clark
County, Nevada, seeking to force the company to produce spending
records. He is also chairman of  Universal Entertainment Corp. (6425) ,
Wynn’s biggest shareholder.  Okada opposed Wynn Resorts’s HK$1 billion ($129 million)
pledge in July 2011 to the University of Macau Development
Foundation, according to the complaint. Universal, a Tokyo-based
pachinko machine maker, owns a 20 percent stake in the Las
Vegas-based operator of gambling resorts. Kazuma Ishioka, a
spokesman at Tokyo-based Universal, declined to comment.  Okada said in a related regulatory filing he is seeking to
protect his investments of $380 million in Wynn Resorts dating
back to 2000.  According to the filings, on Nov. 2 Okada sought
information regarding the pledge, the use of $30 million one of
his companies invested in Wynn in April 2002 and an amendment to
a stockholders agreement with Chairman and founder Stephen Wynn
and ex-wife Elaine Wynn that followed the couple’s divorce.  “Not only was the request summarily denied but,
shockingly, Wynn Resorts asked for evidence that the $30 million
investment had even occurred,” according to the filing.  Calls made to Samanta Stewart, a spokeswoman at Wynn
Resorts, went unanswered.  The case is Kazuo Okada v. Wynn Resorts, Ltd., District
Court of Clark County, Nevada (Las Vegas).  For more, click here.  Nacchio Seeks $18 Million Refund for Taxes on Illegal Trades  Joseph Nacchio , the former  Qwest Communications
International Inc. (Q)  chairman convicted of insider trading, sued
the U.S. seeking a refund of almost $18 million in taxes he paid
on gains from illegal stock sales.  In a lawsuit filed Jan. 10 in the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims in Washington, Nacchio said he and his wife are owed a
refund because court-ordered disgorgement of those gains wiped
out their tax liability.  Nacchio, 62, received a 70-month prison sentence after his
conviction in 2007 for selling stock in Denver-based Qwest in
2001 based on inside information. Nacchio of Rumson, New Jersey,
made more than $44 million on the sale, according to court
papers. CenturyLink Inc., a telecommunications company based in
Monroe, Louisiana, bought Qwest last year for $24 billion.  The suit claims that “$44,632,464.38 was included in
plaintiffs’ gross income for tax year 2007 because it appeared
that the plaintiffs had an unrestricted right” to the money.
“As such, plaintiffs paid $17,999,030.00 in federal income
tax.”  In the criminal case, Nacchio was ordered to pay a $19
million fine and forfeit $44.6 million.  The Internal Revenue Service rejected an earlier request
for a tax credit on Nacchio’s payment, claiming it would
“violate public policy as it would force a portion of the
penalty to be borne by the U.S. government,” according to a
letter from the IRS cited in the suit.  William Lipkind, Nacchio’s lawyer in the tax lawsuit,
didn’t return a telephone message seeking comment on the filing.  Grant Williams, an IRS spokesman, said federal law
prohibits the agency from discussing or commenting on any
particular taxpayer situation or case.  The case is Nacchio v. U.S., 12-00020, U.S. Court of
Federal Claims (Washington).  Omnicare Cheated U.S., Illinois, Ex-Pharmacist Claims in Lawsuit  Omnicare Inc. (OCR)  was accused in a lawsuit by a former company
pharmacist of overbilling the U.S. and Illinois governments for
drugs it supplied to nursing homes,  The pharmacist, Peter Ordeanu, alleged in a complaint filed
Jan. 10 in federal court in Chicago that he and others at the
company were required to enter false billing information that
caused the state and federal governments to pay for medications
that were more costly than those actually being dispensed.  “Omnicare regularly overcharged the government,” he
alleged, by compelling pharmacists to enter incorrect National
Drug Codes, the product identifiers assigned by the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration to all commercially distributed
pharmaceuticals.  The government may have suffered millions of dollars of
damages from that conduct at a Des Plaines, Illinois,
distribution facility operated by Covington, Kentucky-based
Omnicare, Ordeanu said. Omnicare is the biggest U.S. provider of
pharmaceuticals to nursing homes.  Patrick Lee, Omnicare’s vice president for investor
relations, didn’t respond to phone and e-mail messages seeking
comment on the lawsuit. Jamie Moser, a company spokeswoman with
Joele Frank, Wilkinson Brimmer Katcher in  New York , also didn’t
immediately reply to e-mail and phone messages seeking comment.  Ordeanu also claims his employment was wrongfully
terminated in January 2011 in violation of federal age
discrimination laws. Ordeanu also alleges his firing was in
retaliation for disclosing the company’s illegal activities to
his Omnicare supervisors, managers and directors.  The case is United States of America ex rel. Ordeanu v.
Omnicare Inc., 12-cv-184, U.S. District Court, Northern District
of Illinois (Chicago).  U.K. Regulator Charges Man With 8 Counts of Insider Trading  Britain’s finance regulator charged Richard Anthony Joseph
with insider trading and money laundering following his May,
2010, arrest for the crimes.  The Financial Services Authority said Joseph, 42, was
released on conditional bail after a hearing in  London 
yesterday. He is scheduled to appear at a higher criminal court
in March to face the eight counts of insider trading and two
counts of money laundering, the regulator said in a  statement .  Joseph, who is not approved by the FSA to hold a regulated
position in Britain’s finance industry, faces as long as seven
years in jail for insider trading, plus a fine if he’s found
guilty.  The FSA, which prosecutes market abuse in the U.K., has at
least two insider trading trials scheduled to begin in the first
half of the year and another case awaiting a trial date.  Karen Roberts, a spokeswoman for Joseph’s law firm, Irwin
Mitchell, didn’t immediately respond to a phone call or e-mail
seeking comment. FSA spokesman Christopher Hamilton declined to
comment further.  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  S&P, Moody’s Must Face Calpers Lawsuit Over Ratings, Judge Rules  Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s Investors Service Inc. must
face California Public Employees’ Retirement System’s $1 billion
lawsuit over their ratings of structured investment vehicles, a
judge said.  The pension fund “produced sufficient evidence” that the
ratings companies made misrepresentations “without reasonable
grounds” to believe they were telling the truth, state court
Judge Richard Kramer in San Francisco said in a ruling
yesterday.  Calpers, the largest U.S. pension fund, sued the three
major bond-rating companies in July 2009 for losses it said were
caused by their “wildly inaccurate” risk assessments on so-
called SIVs.  The ratings companies all gave top marks to Cheyne Finance
LLC, Stanfield Victoria Funding LLC and Sigma Finance Inc.,
prompting Calpers to invest in them in 2006, the fund said in
its complaint. The SIVs collapsed in 2007 and 2008, according to
the Calpers complaint. The underlying assets of the three firms
consisted primarily of risky subprime mortgages, Calpers said.  Kramer’s ruling rejected a request by the rating companies
to dismiss the case under a California law designed to fend off
lawsuits meant to chill public debate. He ruled in 2010 that the
ratings are a form of speech that’s protected by the law. To
fend off dismissal, Calpers then had to show a probability of
prevailing in the lawsuit by presenting sufficient facts.  “It’s not a ruling on the merits of the case,” said Paul
Clifford, an attorney at the California Anti-Slapp Project, a
Berkeley, California-based law firm that specializes in similar
lawsuits. SLAPP stands for “strategic lawsuits against public
participation.”  Moody’s and S&P have 60 days to appeal the ruling, and the
appeals court would take a fresh look at the evidence without
considering whether Kramer erred in his decision, Clifford said
in a phone interview. Neither side can present new evidence, he
added.  Edward Sweeney , a spokesman for  McGraw-Hill Cos. (MHP) ’ Standard
& Poor’s Rating Services reached via e-mail, had no immediate
comment about the ruling. Michael Adler, a Moody’s spokesman,
didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail message seeking comment
on the decision. A phone call to Sacramento-based Calper’s media
office wasn’t immediately returned.  The case is California Public Employees’ Retirement Systems
v.  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , 09-490241, Superior Court of California,
County of San Francisco.  Bank of America Faults Lehman Statement on Archstone  Bank of America Corp.  faulted Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
for telling the press that there were no limits on the amount of
damages the defunct firm could seek from the bank and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  over a disputed deal involving Archstone.  The bank termed Lehman’s statement, cited in a published
story last week about Lehman’s fight to control its biggest real
estate asset, “incorrect and prejudicial,” in a letter
yesterday to a judge that was filed in court.  Bankrupt Lehman plans a $1.3 billion purchase of 26.5
percent of Archstone from the banks, as a first step in buying
the banks’ 53 percent Archstone stake for as much as $2.7
billion, according to the parties’ comments in court last week.
Lehman, after failing to stop the banks from giving Sam Zell’s
 Equity Residential (EQR)  an option to buy the second half of their
stake, told a reporter that the banks had waived any limits on
monetary damages Lehman can seek from them as a result of their
actions.  Bank of America and Barclays “respectfully request that
the court once again instruct plaintiffs not to comment on this
lawsuit in the media,” Bank of America said in the letter.  According to Bank of America, Lehman is entitled only to a
refund if a judge deems that it overpaid for the second half of
the banks’ stake. Lehman has said the Zell company will likely
bid more than $1.3 billion for that piece of Archstone, forcing
Lehman to match his bid if it wants to gain control of
Archstone.  Kimberly Macleod, a Lehman spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Lehman is embarking on a $65 billion liquidation plan after
three years in bankruptcy court that would pay the average
creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar. It has said it aims
to sell Archstone later for as much as $6 billion to help pay
creditors. Archstone is Lehman’s biggest real estate asset.
Lehman currently owns 47 percent.  The case is In re  Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ) , 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan). The complaint is Archstone LB Syndication Partner
LLC v. Banc of America Strategic Venture Inc. (In re Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.), 11-02928, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Facebook Claimant Fined $5,000 for Failure to Produce E-Mail  Paul Ceglia , the New York man claiming to own a stake in
Facebook Inc., was fined $5,000 for failing to provide access to
his e-mail accounts in his lawsuit against the company.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in Buffalo, New York,
ruled Jan. 10 that Ceglia showed “a plain lack of respect” for
a court order requiring him to turn over to Facebook the
addresses and passwords for all e-mail accounts he has used
since 2003.  Foschio ordered Ceglia to pay the fine and reimburse
Facebook for its legal fees connected to the e-mail dispute.
Foschio said Ceglia disregarded his lawyers’ advice to comply
with the order.  “Plaintiff, fully advised by his attorneys not to do so,
chose to knowingly ignore the unambiguous orders of the court,”
Foschio wrote.  Ceglia’s attorney, Dean Boland of Lakewood, Ohio, said his
client won’t seek to appeal the ruling. The failure to follow
the e-mail order occurred before Boland took over as Ceglia’s
lead counsel in October, he said. Three other legal teams have
left the case since Ceglia sued in June 2010.  “When a judge orders you to do something, you’ve got to do
it,” Boland said in a phone interview.  Orin Snyder, a lawyer who represents Palo Alto, California-
based Facebook in the suit, didn’t immediately return a call
seeking comment on the ruling.  Ceglia claims a 2003 contract entitles him to half the
Facebook holdings of the social-networking company’s co-founder
and chief executive officer,  Mark Zuckerberg .  In an amended complaint filed in the case, Ceglia quoted e-
mails between him and Zuckerberg that he says support his suit.
Facebook has said that the e-mails were fabricated and that the
two-page contract produced by Ceglia is a forgery.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  For more, click here.  Dodgers End TV Rights Fight With Fox, Removing Bar to Sale  The bankrupt Los Angeles Dodgers ended their court fight
with  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox Sports over future television rights,
removing the last major barrier to a sale of the Major League
Baseball team.  Fox Sports agreed to end its opposition to the Dodgers’
bankruptcy reorganization and the team agreed not to solicit
bids for future television rights before an exclusive
negotiating period with Fox ends later this year.  The deal was designed to “eliminate the cost and
distraction of the disputes with Fox and to allow the sale
process to move forward unhindered by any uncertainty regarding
those disputes,” the Dodgers said in a court filing Jan. 10.  Dodgers owner Frank McCourt is selling the team, which
filed for bankruptcy in June. To increase the value of the
franchise, the Dodgers won permission from the judge overseeing
the team’s bankruptcy to solicit separate offers for the rights
to televise future games, which Fox currently holds.  That decision was put on hold by a higher court, which
found that Fox was likely to win an appeal. A final hearing on
whether to overturn the media rights ruling was scheduled for
today.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Gross approved the settlement
yesterday at a hearing in Wilmington, Delaware, that had
originally been scheduled to decide whether the bankruptcy
should be dismissed, as Fox had demanded.  “We are pleased that these matters between our two
organizations have been resolved,” Fox said in a statement.
“We were never in favor of litigation, but it was imperative
that we protect our exclusive media rights.”  Under the settlement, whoever buys the team would have the
right to negotiate an extension of Fox’s current television deal
with the Dodgers or, failing that, sign a contract with a new
company. Under the current contract, Fox has a limited right to
match any subsequent bids under certain circumstances.  The case is In re Los Angeles Dodgers LLC, 11-12010, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  Saudi Binladen Group Wins Dismissal of Six 9/11 Lawsuits  Saudi Binladen Group, Saudi Arabia’s largest construction
company, won dismissal of lawsuits in which it was accused of
supporting Osama Bin Laden’s 2001 terrorist attacks.  U.S. District Judge George B. Daniels in New York yesterday
threw out six cases brought by people including relatives of
those killed in the Sept. 11 attacks. They claimed the
construction and distribution company run by bin Laden’s
relatives “provided material support” and financing to Bin
Laden and maintained close ties with him before the attacks.  The company allegedly provided significant support to bin
Laden before he was removed as a shareholder in 1993, “with
knowledge that he was targeting the United States,” those suing
said. They claimed the company provided a “financial lifeline”
to the al-Qaeda leader, now deceased, after he was removed as a
shareholder and his ties with it cut in 1994.  The claims “have no evidentiary support,” Daniels ruled.  The suits include cases filed by Deena Burnett, whose
husband, Thomas, 28, was killed when his hijacked plane, United
Airlines Flight 93, crashed in a southwestern Pennsylvania
field, and the family of Thomas Ashton, who died at the World
Trade Center.  The judge said the plaintiffs failed to establish so-called
personal jurisdiction, or the court’s authority over the parties
in the suit. The business activities of an employee of the
company’s now-defunct U.S. unit were insufficient to confer
jurisdiction, Daniels ruled.  U.S. District Judge Richard Casey, who presided over the
case before his 2007 death, denied the Saudi Binladen group’s
request to dismiss two suits in January 2005, Daniels said.  Casey allowed extensive evidence to be collected and ruled
the Binladen Group could renew its motion later, Daniels said.  The case is In re Terrorist Attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, 03-
MDL-1570, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Renault Heirs Lose Bid for Review of WWII Nationalization  The family of  Renault SA (RNO) ’s founder lost a bid to have a
court review the 1945 nationalization of the carmaker in a case
that dates back to allegations that Louis Renault collaborated
with the Nazis during World War II.  The court said it didn’t have jurisdiction to take the case
in a ruling yesterday. The court sided with the French
government and Paris prosecutors, who argued that previous court
rulings against the family were binding.  Seven of Louis Renault’s heirs asked the court to allow
them to challenge the constitutionality of the state’s takeover.
The family argued that since Renault, arrested for allegedly
collaborating with the Nazis, died in prison awaiting trial,
they were unfairly punished when French authorities refused to
compensate his survivors.  “To call into question, 65 years later,” a war-time
decision by the French authorities “to confiscate what had
become an arm of war” was a “provocation,” said Jean-Paul
Teissonniere, a lawyer for a metal workers union which opposed
the heirs. “The court did not fall into the trap.”  The heirs will “very probably” file an appeal, according
to their lawyer, Louis-Marie de Roux.  The court’s decision is “contrary to all the principles
guaranteed by the constitution,” de Roux said. “There was a
wrong committed by the state” when the authorities seized “the
assets without any indemnification, any court ruling.”  The Boulogne Billancourt-based carmaker isn’t involved in
the case. The French government is currently Renault’s biggest
 shareholder  with a 15 percent stake.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here. For the latest trial
and appeals news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Goldman Sachs to Pay $1 Million to Settle Overtime Suit  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  will pay $993,841 to settle a suit
brought by a group of computer technicians who said they weren’t
paid overtime for their work as contractors.  The parties asked U.S. District Judge William H. Pauley in
Manhattan in a filing yesterday to approve the settlement.
Forty-one technicians returned claim forms, according to the
filing.  “The parties reached the settlement agreement after an
arm’s-length mediation held in March 2011,” according to the
filing.  In the lawsuit, the technicians said they deserved overtime
pay for working more than 40 hours a week. Work weeks topped 70
hours, and more than 100 employees in New York and New Jersey
were underpaid as a result, they said in the complaint filed in
May 2010.  David Wells, a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to comment
on the settlement.  The case is Bardouille v. Goldman Sachs & Co., 10-cv-4285,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  U.S. High Court Rejects Limits on Witness-ID Testimony  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  rejected calls for judges to assess
the reliability of eyewitnesses before letting them go in front
of a jury to identify the culprit in a criminal case.  The justices, voting 8-1, ruled against a  New Hampshire (BEESNH)  man
who was identified by a witness and was subsequently convicted
for breaking into a car. The accused man, Barion Perry,
contended that the identification wasn’t reliable because he was
being questioned by a police officer in a parking lot when the
witness saw him from her apartment window.  The ruling reinforces the power of prosecutors while
rebuffing defense contentions that eyewitness testimony is
highly persuasive and frequently wrong. The decision continues a
trend at the court, which under Chief Justice John Roberts has
generally limited the rights of criminal defendants.  In the latest case, the justices said they wouldn’t extend
previous rulings that protect suspects against witness
identifications that are influenced by police suggestions.
Writing for the court, Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg said that
rule applies only in cases involving law-enforcement misconduct.  “The jury, not the judge, traditionally determines the
reliability of evidence,” Ginsburg wrote. “We also take
account of other safeguards built into our adversary system that
caution juries against placing undue weight on eyewitness
testimony of questionable reliability.”  Justice  Sonia Sotomayor , the lone dissenter, pointed to
studies showing eyewitnesses’ misidentification of suspects to
be the biggest cause of wrongful convictions. She said
researchers found that misidentification was involved in a
“staggering” 76 percent of the first 250 convictions to have
been overturned due to DNA evidence.  “Eyewitness identifications’ unique confluence of features
-- their unreliability, susceptibility to suggestion, powerful
impact on the jury and resistance to the ordinary tests of the
adversarial process -- can undermine the fairness of a trial,”
wrote Sotomayor, a former prosecutor.  The case is Perry v. New Hampshire, 10-8974, U.S. Supreme
Court (Washington).  For more, click here.  Job-Bias Suits Against Religious Groups Curbed by Top Court  The U.S. Supreme Court gave religious groups a new shield
from job-bias suits, throwing out a case filed by a fourth-grade
teacher who was fired from a Lutheran school in suburban
Detroit.  The justices unanimously said for the first time that the
Constitution protects churches from employment-discrimination
claims by ministers. The court also said Cheryl Perich fell
within that exception, in part because the church that ran the
school conferred the title of “minister” on her.  “The interest of society in the enforcement of employment
discrimination statutes is undoubtedly important,” Chief
Justice John Roberts wrote for the court. “But so too is the
interest of religious groups in choosing who will preach their
beliefs, teach their faith and carry out their mission.”  Appeals courts to have considered the issue had uniformly
recognized the “ministerial exception” to job discrimination
laws, while disagreeing as to its breadth.  Perich and the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission
were seeking to sue under the Americans with Disabilities Act,
contending that the Hosanna-Tabor Evangelical Lutheran Church
and School had discriminated against her because she had been
diagnosed with narcolepsy. A federal appeals court had let her
suit go forward.  The case is Hosanna-Tabor Church v. EEOC, 10-553, U.S.
Supreme Court (Washington).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Stanford’s Lawyers Seek to Quit Case Before Jan. 23 Fraud Trial  Lawyers for R. Allen Stanford, the Texas financial
scheduled to go on trial this month on charges of leading a $7
billion fraud, asked a judge to let them quit the case.  Attorneys Ali Fazel and Robert Scardino, who are being paid
from public funds because Stanford’s assets are frozen by court
order in a related case, filed the withdrawal request with U.S.
District Judge David Hittner in Houston yesterday, saying budget
restrictions are hampering their effectiveness.  “The rulings of this court, the budget matters made public
by this court, and matters still under seal have placed counsel
in an untenable position,” they said. “Counsel cannot
represent the accused competently.”  Jury selection is scheduled to begin on Jan. 23. Stanford
is accused of defrauding investors who bought certificates of
deposit issued by his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank.
He has denied the charges.  Laura Sweeney , a spokeswoman for the U.S. Justice
Department, declined to comment on the lawyers’ request.  Stanford has been in federal custody since he was indicted
in June 2009.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  Ex-Sullivan & Cromwell Lawyer Gets 28 Months for Tax Crime  John J. O’Brien, a former partner with the New York law
firm  Sullivan & Cromwell LLP  who specialized in corporate
mergers and acquisitions, was sentenced to 28 months in prison
for failing to pay his taxes.  O’Brien, who earned about $10.8 million from 2001 to 2008,
didn’t file federal tax returns for those years, according to
the government. He used his unreported income to buy a rare-book
business, which failed, according to prosecutors.  Calling it “a very odd case and a very troubling case,”
U.S. Magistrate Judge Henry Pitman yesterday rejected O’Brien’s
request to avoid prison, in a hearing in Manhattan federal
court. As part of a plea agreement, O’Brien must pay $2.9
million in unpaid taxes, plus interest.  O’Brien, who is admitted to practice law in New York, is
the subject of a legal disciplinary proceeding, Assistant U.S.
Attorney Stanley Okula told Pitman. Because he pleaded guilty to
four misdemeanor charges, he won’t be automatically disbarred.  The case is U.S. v. O’Brien, 11-cr-0652, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 