-- Hong Kong Equipped to Host Corporate Headquarters, HSBC Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-01-12T03:21:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/hong-kong-equipped-to-host-corporate-headquarters-hsbc-says.html
Hong Kong, where  China ’s biggest
banks are listed, has the infrastructure, services and legal
system to host global headquarters for companies, according to
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  Chairman  Douglas Flint .  “It has all the necessary qualifications to be a relevant
choice,” Flint said in a Dec. 19 interview with the Hong Kong
Trade Development Council, without saying if HSBC would consider
relocating its headquarters to the Chinese city from  London .  HSBC, which got a third of its operating income from Hong
Kong in 2010, faced calls from investors to consider moving its
headquarters after Britain imposed a bank levy to raise 2.5
billion pounds ($3.8 billion) from lenders. Hong Kong would
“absolutely” welcome the banks relocating to the former
British territory, the city’s Chief Executive Donald Tsang said
in September.  The U.K. government imposed new rules for banks published
last September that include separating consumer and investment
banking operations, which aims to shield customers from another
financial crisis.  HSBC is “is being increasingly asked by shareholders and
investors about the likely additional cost of being
headquartered in the U.K.,” Flint and Chief Executive Officer
 Stuart Gulliver  said in a statement last March.  London is still the bank’s first choice, HSBC said at the
time.  HSBC’s yuan trade business will grow as the Asian currency
is poised to join the dollar and the euro as a “significant”
investment currency, he said.  “Hong Kong has a leading position in that today, which it
will clearly seek to protect and grow,” Flint said.  HSBC, Europe’s largest bank by market value, traces its
roots to the Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corp. which was
required by British regulators to move to London from Hong Kong
in 1992 after it  acquired  Midland Bank Plc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  