-- Hong Kong Brokers Boo Exchanges’ Li
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   F o x   H u
-- 2012-01-13T03:09:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/hong-kong-traders-plan-lunch-break-protest.html
Hong Kong  securities traders and
brokers, who last year lost the longest lunch break of the
world’s 20 biggest exchanges, marched to the city’s bourse and
booed at executives to protest a further reduction.  About 1,000 brokers and restaurant staff gathered at the
headquarters of  Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.  yesterday,
booing Chief Executive Charles Li and Chairman Ronald Arculli
when they came out of the office to receive a letter of protest
for the plan to cut the lunch hour further from March 5.  Hong Kong Exchanges’ Li is seeking to cut the  lunch break 
to one hour from 90 minutes, arguing it may boost business as
trading hours are brought in line with  China ’s markets. Rivals
in the region have also enacted similar measures with  Tokyo 
shortening its midday halt and  Singapore  scrapping its break.  “We’ll work together to find ways to solve the lunch
problem,” Li told reporters yesterday after meeting the
protesters. “It’s necessary to move on. We shouldn’t stop our
reform.”  Li cut the break from two hours last year. Shanghai’s
trading hours run from 9:30 a.m. to 3 p.m. with a 90-minute
stoppage between 11:30 a.m. and 1 p.m. Hong Kong will operate
from 9:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., with a one-hour break between noon and
1 p.m. after the proposed change.  The protesters, a mixture of gray-haired brokers and young
women in suits and sweaters, marched from Statue Square in the
central business district to the bourse’s headquarters after the
market closed. To chants of “Hong Kong Exchange is inhumane,”
the protesters waved picket signs and raised fists.  Picket Signs  “All the brokers in Hong Kong are so stretched,” said
Ruann Cheung, who works at Lippo Securities Holdings Ltd. “With
a shorter lunch break, we cannot concentrate in the afternoon.”  Cheung and five colleagues were gathered around a picket
sign that said: “You want us to trade till we drop. We want you
to drop before we trade!”  The booing grew louder as Arculli and Li walked among the
protesters.  “The important thing is they came out to receive our
letter, showing they are paying attention,” said Patrick Lam,
chairman of the Hong Kong Securities & Futures Employees Union
and organizer of the demonstration. “Last time, they just sent
a senior official to receive the letter.”  The letter listed the reasons for opposing the trading hour
extension, including possibilities of health problems,
unemployment and social instability.  China Competition  Hong Kong is competing with  Shanghai  to be the center for
Chinese trading, and the move to align itself more closely with
markets in the mainland comes as more Chinese companies list in
the city.  Mainland Chinese companies accounted for 46 percent of the
HK$17.5 trillion ($2.3 trillion) market value of Hong Kong’s
Main Board on Dec. 30,  exchange data  shows, up from 16 percent
in 1997, when the U.K. returned Hong Kong to China.  The exchange has to cater to interests in China and
internationally, and “if we don’t do it, we may lose some
competitive edge to rivals,” Arculli said.  The Tokyo Stock Exchange last year reduced its lunch break
to one hour.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  scrapped its break, joining
 Australia ,  South Korea  and  India  on the list of Asia-Pacific
markets that trade without an interval.  Restaurants Suffer  The shorter lunch break has hurt restaurants, said Jacky
Choi, the assistant manager at Treasure Lake Golden Banquet,
which has 15 stores in the Central and Sheung Wan business
districts. Income for each of the restaurant dropped by about
HK$10,000 a day after the first reduction in trading break, he
said.  Brokers use the break to communicate with clients and one
hour is not enough, the union’s Lam said. The bourse’s argument
that it will make the exchange more competitive is not a strong
enough reason, he said.  “Turnover at the Hong Kong exchange hasn’t increased since
the first phase of the lunch cut,” said Lam.  The  average daily turnover  in the city has been HK$67.8
billion since the bourse reduced its break on March 7 last year
to the current 90 minutes, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s less than the HK$69.8 billion average for the
same period a year earlier, when traders still enjoyed their
two-hour lunch break. The  average number  of common shares traded
has dropped by 28 percent to 11.1 billion.  ‘Happy Compromise’  Hong Kong’s benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  tumbled 20 percent
last year, its first annual drop since 2008, with developers and
banks tumbling as China took steps to curb inflation and
 Europe ’s debt crisis threatened global growth. The decline
compares with a little changed Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and
an 11 percent drop for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  “Maybe we can compromise to make everyone happy,” said
Louis Lai, a stock broker at Phillip Securities who is also part
of the union. “There’s no urgent need to further cut it back to
one hour.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net ;
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  