-- Monsanto Says Weedkiller-Resistant Kochia Found in Canada
-- B y   J a c k   K a s k e y
-- 2012-01-12T15:55:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/monsanto-says-glyphosate-resistant-kochia-in-western-canada.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the biggest seed
maker, said the bushy plant Kochia is no longer being killed by
the company’s Roundup in parts of  Canada , a sign that resistance
to the world’s best-selling herbicide is spreading.  Kochia that resists glyphosate, the active ingredient in
Roundup, was confirmed in three fields in southern  Alberta , St.
Louis-based Monsanto said yesterday in a  statement  on its
website. The weed, which can thrive in drought conditions and
grow 7 feet tall (2.1 meters), previously was found to be
glyphosate-resistant in three U.S. states, the company said.  Glyphosate-resistant weeds have spread with the popularity
of Monsanto’s Roundup Ready crops, which are genetically
modified to withstand applications of the herbicide. To combat
the problem, Monsanto and its rivals are engineering crops that
resist additional weed killers such as dicamba and 2,4-D, an
ingredient in the defoliant  Agent Orange .  Kochia resistance in Alberta affects 101 to 500 acres,
according to the  website  of the International Survey of
Herbicide Resistant Weeds.  The Canadian case is different from most because the
kochia, found in fallow fields, don’t appear to have developed
resistance on farms where Roundup Ready crops were regularly
planted, Monsanto said. Still, the weeds “could present new
challenges” on Alberta farms that use Roundup Ready canola and
sugarbeet seeds, the company said.  In the U.S., Roundup-resistant weeds such as kochia and
Palmer amaranth have invaded 14 million acres of cotton, soybean
and corn, and that will double by 2015, Syngenta AG said last
year. A  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  study in 2011 found as many as 20
million acres of corn and soybeans may already be infested.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jack Kaskey in Houston at 
 jkaskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  