-- Onyx CFO Says Experimental Medicines Make Drugmaker ‘Attractive’ Purchase
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-12T21:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/onyx-cfo-says-experimental-medicines-make-drugmaker-attractive-purchase.html
Onyx Pharmaceuticals Inc., (ONXX)  the
developer of kidney cancer drug Nexavar, is an attractive target
for acquirers because it may receive regulatory approvals for
several new treatments during the next year, Chief Financial
Officer Matt Fust said.  Onyx was labeled the top biotechnology takeover target in
2012 in a survey last week by  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with
ISI Group in New York. The South San Francisco, California-based
company was exploring options, including a potential sale
process last year, two people familiar with the situation said
in November.  “We could have data or regulatory approval for three
different products and as many as seven different indications,”
Fust said today in an interview. “Those are very large
populations of patients with significant unmet need, which is
inherently attractive to other interested parties.”  Fust declined to comment on the ISI survey or reports Onyx
may be trying to sell itself.  Pfizer Inc., the world’s largest drugmaker, and  Takeda
Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) , based in Osaka, Japan, were named last month
as potential suitors by Mizuho Financial Group Inc. and Tullett
Prebon Plc.  Onyx has  completed  the last of three studies typically
required for approval for two experimental drugs, carfilzomib
for multiple myeloma, and regorafenib for colorectal cancer.
Onyx also has trials testing Nexavar for breast, thyroid, and
non-small cell lung cancer.  Bayer AG (BAYN) , based in Leverkusen,
Germany, is a partner with Onyx on Nexavar and regorafenib.  Onyx gained 1.1 percent to $42.96 at the close of trading
in New York. The company has increased 20 percent in the past 12
months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  