-- Moody’s, S&P Lose Bid to End Calpers Lawsuit Over Ratings of SIV Vehicles
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-01-12T00:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/moody-s-s-p-lose-bid-to-end-calpers-lawsuit-over-ratings-of-siv-vehicles.html
Moody’s Investors Service Inc. and
 Standard & Poor’s  lost their bid to dismiss  California  Public
Employees’ Retirement System’s $1 billion lawsuit over their
ratings of structured investment vehicles.  The pension fund “produced sufficient evidence” that the
ratings companies made misrepresentations “without reasonable
grounds” to believe they were telling the truth, state court
Judge Richard Kramer in  San Francisco  said in a ruling today.  Calpers, the largest U.S. pension fund, sued the three
major bond-rating companies in July 2009 for losses it said were
caused by their “wildly inaccurate” risk assessments on so-
called SIVs.  The investments received the companies’ highest ratings in
2006 and collapsed in 2007 and 2008, according to the Calpers
complaint.  Fitch Ratings Ltd. settled the lawsuit in August, agreeing
to provide Calpers with documents from a lawsuit over some of
the same investments pending in  New York .  The ratings companies all gave top marks to Cheyne Finance
LLC, Stanfield Victoria Funding LLC and Sigma Finance Inc.,
prompting Calpers to invest in them in 2006, the fund said in
its complaint.  Defaulted on Payments  The structured investment vehicles defaulted on payments to
Calpers, the pension fund said. The underlying assets of the
three firms consisted primarily of risky subprime mortgages,
Calpers said.  The SIVs, unregistered securities, could be sold only to
specific classes of buyers. The assets underlying the SIVs were
known only to the SIVs, and the rating companies, which
published the ratings in offering materials on their websites
for a brief period and on private financial reporting services,
Calpers said in its complaint.  The case is California Public Employees’ Retirement Systems
v.  Moody’s Corp. (MCO) , 09-490241, Superior Court of California,
County of San Francisco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in San Francisco
at   kgullo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 