-- Orban Says Hungary Ready to Negotiate ‘All the Points’ for Loan
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-01-12T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/orban-says-hungary-ready-to-negotiate-all-the-points-for-loan.html
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban comments on the country’s bailout talks with the European
Union and the  International Monetary Fund .  He spoke at a meeting with reporters in Budapest today.  On the negotiations:  “Our general approach is that we’re ready to negotiate all
the points. But what we need is not political opinion but
arguments. And when the arguments on behalf of the European
Union are convincing that it’s better to accept and follow that
line, there’s no reason not to do that.”  On EU’s excessive deficit procedure against Hungary:  “Yesterday’s comments on behalf of the European Union
didn’t contain any argument, just opinion, saying that they
don’t like it, it’s against general legislation of the European
Union. But we would like to get more specific points on which
points they would like to see modification or corrections. And
we are ready to consider it.  ‘‘Now the markets are more optimistic. The fundamentals of
the Hungarian economy proved to be far stronger than many
suggested or appreciated or perceived.  ‘‘The opinion of the European Commission on excessive
deficit procedure is rather promising on us because they
criticized only the past, 2010 and 2011. It’s a clear sign that
we are very close on an agreement on the possible and wished
performance on the Hungarian economy and the budget in 2012. In
2012, without any extraordinary measures, the  budget deficit 
will be below 3 percent for the first time since joining
European Union.  ‘‘The commission did not deny that fact, which is
promising, so I think we are very close to each other, we agree
on 2012 and even on 2013.’’  On Hungary’s economic outlook:  The outlook for the budget ‘‘generates a better climate on
the market and I’m sure after an agreement with the IMF we will
be able to stay on the financial market because the agreement
with the IMF is not to leave the financial markets.  ‘‘If we are able, when we are able to stay on the financial
market and at the same time we have the financial background by
the agreement with the IMF, when this package is put together
the economy can’’ go ‘‘forward at stronger economic growth.  ‘‘My best case scenario is that in one month the main
subject related to the Hungarian economy is not how to finance
the economy but how successful the growth plan could be.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  