-- Orban as Hungary Opponent of Soviets Finds Unlikely EU-IMF Foe
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-01-13T10:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/orban-as-hungary-opponent-of-soviets-finds-unlikely-eu-imf-foe.html
As an unshaven student leader in the
1980s,  Viktor Orban  urged his fellow Hungarians to reject Soviet
rule and embrace democracy. Now, as prime minister, he’s
fighting western capitalists in the name of freedom.  Orban is trying to secure loans to avert a debt default
this year after saying as recently as November that Hungary
could cope alone. The  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Union are balking because of the 48-year-old leader’s
increasing control over the courts and the central bank.  “Orban thinks this is 1990 all over again, with new rules
being written and no time for compromise,” Zoltan Lakner, who
teaches political science at  ELTE university  in Budapest, said
in an interview. “Orban stood out for his boldness, for
throwing caution aside and for his confrontational style” when
negotiating with the communist regime, he said.  While  Hungary  remains outside the euro, it carries all the
hallmarks of the currency’s crisis: borrowing costs near records
in the  bond market , junk status at rating companies and anti-
government protests. As the nation’s most powerful premier since
the collapse of communism, Orban is now faced with agreeing on a
deal or risking economic collapse in a nation that first asked
for aid in October 2008, more than a year before Greece.  “The IMF wants to intervene in Hungary to remove a burning
issue in the euro area’s backyard,” said Agnes Belaisch, a
former IMF economist who now helps manage $2.5 billion in
emerging-market debt funds at Threadneedle Asset Management in
London. “Lending to Hungary is important so there’s no piling
up of debt problems.”  ‘Public Scrutiny’  Hungary needs an IMF bailout in the first half of the year
to restore market confidence, Paul Rawkins, head of the emerging
Europe sovereign ratings group at  Fitch Ratings , told Bloomberg
Television on Jan. 10.  The IMF needs to see “tangible steps” from Hungary that
show “strong commitment” on economic-policy issues before the
lender of last resort decides “when and whether” to start
formal negotiations on a bailout, Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  said yesterday in  Washington  after meeting Tamas Fellegi, Hungary’s chief negotiator.  “In 1989, our strongest weapon was public scrutiny and
this is still the case,” Orban told reporters yesterday at the
parliament in Budapest. “Transparency is Hungary’s most
important asset in the IMF talks. Let’s discuss everything
honestly and openly. We are ready to accept everything they say
as long as it’s rational and good for Hungary.”  Orban rose to prominence on June 1 of that year at the
reburial of Imre Nagy, the spearhead of the failed anti-Soviet
uprising of 1956. Standing beside the coffins of Nagy and four
other leaders of the uprising, the bearded 26-year-old called on
Hungarians to “end the communist dictatorship.”  Berlin Wall   Five months after Nagy’s funeral, the Berlin Wall fell, and
Hungary began its transformation to democracy. In 1989, Orban
also began studying British liberal political philosophy at
Oxford’s  Pembroke College  on a scholarship from Hungarian-born
investor and philanthropist  George Soros .  Orban won a seat in 1990 in the first post-communist
election after co-founding Fidesz, a Hungarian acronym for the
Alliance of Young Democrats and the party he still leads.  He turned the party into the main, nationalist opposition
to the Socialist Party, which had been born out of the former
communist regime. He became prime minister for the first time in
1998 with Fidesz in coalition with a populist farmers’ group,
the Independent Smallholders Party. At the age of 35, Orban was
 Europe ’s youngest leader at the time.  He steered Hungary towards EU membership it ultimately
gained in 2004 as annual economic growth averaged 4.6 percent.
He had been ousted two years earlier by the Socialist Party,
which raised public wages and pensions.  Budapest Riots  In 2006, Orban, after losing his second consecutive
election, seized on then-Prime Minister Ferenc Gyurcsany’s
leaked admission of having lied about the economy to gain
victory. The revelation triggered Budapest’s worst violence in
50 years, with Orban leading rallies to oust the premier.  Now, people are on the streets protesting against him,
albeit on a much smaller scale.  “It’s remarkable for any politician to lose two elections
and then return and win,” Kenneth Benoit, a professor at the
 London  School of Economics, said in a phone interview. “It’s a
testament to Orban’s charisma and his very loyal group of
followers. It would be hard to imagine Fidesz without Orban.”  Since winning elections again in 2010, this time with more
than two-thirds of the seats in the Hungarian Parliament, a
majority unmatched in any EU country, Fidesz passed a new
constitution effective Jan. 1.  Media Control  Orban asserted influence over the media by giving a
commission whose members were all nominated by Fidesz the right
to fine or shut outlets. He dismissed the top judge, the chief
justice of the  Supreme Court , and replaced an independent
council monitoring the budget with one run by his allies.  “We have significant and well-founded concerns,” U.S.
Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  wrote in a Dec. 23 letter to
Orban, according to the Nepszabadsag newspaper, which published
the letter in Hungarian on Dec. 30. She called on Orban to
protect individual liberties, Nepszabadsag said.  The overhaul was tantamount to a “regime change,” Orban
told the Magyar Nemzet newspaper in a Dec. 24 interview. He
refers to his measures as a “freedom fight” for economic
sovereignty, blaming the previous government for swelling
Hungary’s debt to the highest in eastern Europe.  The EU and the IMF suspended aid talks last month after the
government pressed on with central bank legislation that
enlarges the rate-setting monetary council and takes away Magyar
Nemzeti Bank President Andras Simor’s right to name deputies.  Repeat Deal?  Orban last month said he rejected European Commission
President  Jose Barroso ’s request to withdraw the law. Yesterday,
Orban said he was open to negotiate “all points” as long as
what he gets is “not political opinion but arguments.”  The EU is no stranger to Orban’s brinkmanship. He initially
refused to amend the media law before agreeing in February last
year to limit the regulator’s powers to censor “offensive”
reporting and to ease registration requirement, meeting demands
by EU Media Commissioner  Neelie Kroes .  “Orban may think he can repeat something like that with
the central bank law, compromising on some points without
jeopardizing his goal of gaining influence over the central bank
while securing the IMF loan,” Kai-Olaf Lang, a researcher at
the Berlin-based German Institute for International and Security
Affairs, said in a telephone interview.  The EU’s support for a Hungarian bailout is “critical,”
Lagarde said yesterday.  Fitch Cut  Fitch Ratings became the last of the three main rating
companies to cut Hungary to junk on Jan. 6, following Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s .  It criticized Orban’s “unorthodox policies” of
nationalizing $12 billion in private pension funds, levying
extraordinary taxes on banks, energy, retail and
telecommunication companies and forcing lenders to take losses
on foreign currency mortgage loans.  The forint fell to a record against the euro last week and
the cost to insure  government bonds  against default jumped to a
record. While the country still has the power to set its own
 interest rates  and print its own money, the government couldn’t
meet its debt auction targets. Yields on the 10-year forint-
denominated bonds soared to over 10 percent.  The currency, the world’s worst performer in the past six
months, rose to a two-week high yesterday on optimism that
Hungary would get the IMF loan. The country sold 44 billion
forint ($181 million) of debt yesterday, 11 billion forint more
than targeted, as the yield on the 2022 security fell to 9.38
percent from 9.7 percent at the last sale on Dec. 29.  No Default  “There’s no chance that Hungary will default,” said
Viktor Szabo, who helps manage about $7 billion in emerging-
market debt at Aberdeen Asset Management Plc in London. “The
politicians understand how bad that is for a country’s
reputation. Hungary will solve its problems eventually, although
it won’t be easy and could take a long time.”  Hungary’s problems are “exaggerated,” Belaisch at
Threadneedle said. “It’s a lot of smoke without such a large
fire,” she said by telephone.  Orban originally shunned further IMF loans after assuming
office, with his economy minister,  Gyorgy Matolcsy , saying that
turning to the Washington-based lender would be a “sign of
weakness.” The previous government secured 20 billion euros
($25.4 billion) of international aid, underscoring Hungary’s
position as the economic laggard in a region it once led.  Hungary turned to the IMF again in November as investors
sold stocks, bonds and the currency. They were concerned the
euro area’s crisis, which started in  Greece  more than two years
ago, may infect weaker economies.  Battle Ahead  “We’ve won the first battle in our freedom fight but it’s
not the last one,” Matolcsy told lawmakers on Nov. 21, listing
the results of the cabinet’s “unorthodox” policies four days
after asking for IMF help. “We also need growth, we need
investment, we need competitiveness and we also need a new type
of financial insurance” from the IMF.  The economic growth rate may fall to 0.5 percent this year,
the slowest in the EU’s eastern states, according to a European
Commission report on Nov. 10.  Public debt rose to 83 percent of gross domestic product at
the end of the third quarter, the highest in the region. It
compares with about half that ratio for neighboring Slovakia,
which joined the euro in 2009.  Without extraordinary revenue, the  budget deficit  was more
than double the government’s initial target in 2011 as a flat
tax introduced last year cut income while failing to boost
growth. Hungary didn’t take “effective action” to rein in its
budget deficit as Orban’s measures weren’t of a “sustainable
nature,” the European Commission said on Jan. 11.  Orban’s inability to master the economy until now threatens
to spoil his plans of transforming Hungary in his image and may
ultimately cost him the power he spared no effort at
consolidating, university lecturer Lakner said.  “Orban has rewritten the rules completely in Hungary
politically and economically,” Lakner said. “His trouble is
that the economic engine won’t start. If he can’t operate the
country, then it doesn’t matter if he has all the power.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  