-- Moroun to Appeal Judge’s Order to Jail Him for Contempt in Bridge Dispute
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k
-- 2012-01-12T18:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/moroun-to-appeal-judge-s-order-to-jail-him-for-contempt-in-bridge-dispute.html
Manuel “Matty” Moroun, the
billionaire owner of  Detroit ’s  Ambassador Bridge , will appeal a
Michigan judge’s ruling ordering him jailed for missing
deadlines on a construction project, a spokesman said.  Wayne County Circuit Court Judge Prentis Edwards today
ordered Moroun and Dan Stamper, an executive with Detroit
International Bridge Co., to jail for failing to comply with
deadlines to improve freeway connections to the bridge, which
connects Detroit and Windsor, Ontario.  Moroun and Stamper will file an immediate appeal to
Michigan’s appellate court, the spokesman, Al Upchurch, said in
a phone interview. He said the two men were in custody.  “This entire legal process has clearly become a personal
vendetta by the judge against these individuals,” Moroun’s son
and family spokesman, Matthew Moroun, said in an e-mailed
statement. “Without a trial, without a jury, with no notice
stating the reasons for them to appear, a judge viciously lashed
out at Matty Moroun and Dan Stamper today and ordered a penalty
outside the bounds of a civil case that was excessive,
unwarranted and outrageous.”  Michigan ’s Department of Transportation sued Detroit
International Bridge in 2009, alleging that Moroun’s company
failed to live up to its contract to improve freeway
connections. Edwards ruled in November that the company failed
to meet court-ordered construction deadlines.  “The evidence shows that DIBC is not presently complying
and does not intend to comply with the orders of this court,”
Edwards said in a Nov. 3 ruling. “The construction plans for
the truck road and the access road do not comply with the
requirements of the court orders.”  The case is Michigan Department of Transportation v.
Detroit International Bridge Co., 09-015581-CK, Circuit Court,
Wayne County, Michigan (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  