-- Mothercare Hits Four-Week High on Holiday, Overseas Sales
-- B y   K a t i e   L i n s e l l
-- 2012-01-12T18:25:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/mothercare-reaches-4-week-high-as-holiday-overseas-sales-gain.html
Mothercare Plc (MTC) , the U.K. children’s
clothing retailer with 1,352 stores worldwide, rose to its
highest in four weeks after reporting growth in holiday and
international sales.  U.K. sales at stores open at least a year rose 5 percent in
December, helped by promotions, the Watford, England-based
company said in a Regulatory News Service statement today. Total
retail sales were up almost 40 percent in Asia Pacific in the
third quarter and the brand saw strong growth in Eastern Europe
and the  Middle East , Executive Chairman Alan Parker said.  The holiday sales gain is “the strongest number we’ve seen
for quite some time,” Parker said on a conference call today.
“Our international business is going from strength to strength,
and the U.K. is already benefiting from management action
despite the challenging trading environment.”  Mothercare opened its 1,000th store outside the U.K. in the
third quarter as the company introduced its first  outlets  in
Chile, Colombia, Iraq and  Morocco . The retailer plans to close
80 stores in the U.K. this year to help manage costs, according
to Parker.  The company’s  shares  rose as much as 3.5 percent in London
trading to reach 170.25 pence, their highest intraday price
since Dec. 14. The stock closed up 2 pence at 166.5 pence. The
shares declined 73 percent last year.  ‘Risky Play’  “Mothercare remains a risky play,”  Ben Hunt , an analyst
at Oriel Securities with a “buy” recommendation on the shares,
wrote in a report today. “U.K. like-for-like sales have come in
ahead of expectations, however the company has had to invest in
margin to achieve this.”  U.K. same-store sales fell 3 percent in the third quarter,
Mothercare said today. Total U.K. sales fell 6.9 percent, hurt
by store closures. The company has 352 outlets in the U.K.  Chief Executive Officer Ben Gordon quit in October after
the company’s shares plunged the most in 23 years on its
worsened U.K. outlook. The company is reviewing a list of
candidates to replace Gordon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katie Linsell in London at 
 klinsell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Colin Keatinge at 
 ckeatinge@bloomberg.net  