-- Lowest Emerging Yield Shows Taiwan Election Likely to Preserve China Ties
-- B y   A n d r e a   W o n g   a n d   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-13T06:24:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/lowest-emerging-yield-shows-taiwan-election-likely-to-preserve-china-ties.html
Investors drove  Taiwan ’s government
bond yields to the lowest in  emerging markets  and the island’s
currency rose the most in Asia in the past three months on
speculation elections won’t derail improving ties with China.  Taiwan’s 10-year bond yields at 1.28 percent are lower than
any of the 47 major sovereign issuers except  Switzerland ’s 0.80
percent and  Japan ’s 0.95 percent. The Taiwan dollar strengthened
1.3 percent in the past three months against the greenback as
investors favored economies with the strongest finances during
the European crisis. The island’s debt is 33 percent of gross
domestic product, half the ratio of the U.S., and its $386
billion foreign reserves are the fifth largest.  Financial assets have rallied in the island before the Jan.
14 contest between President Ma Ying-jeou of the Kuomintang
Party, who has championed closer ties with  China , and Tsai Ing-
wen, chairwoman of the opposition  Democratic Progressive Party .
While Tsai said in a November interview that the island should
avoid becoming too dependent on  China’s economy , she said her
party is now more focused on domestic issues than sovereignty
questions.  “Whoever wins, I don’t think there will be a radical
change in policy,” said Rajeev De Mello, the Singapore-based
head of Asian fixed income at Schroder Investment Management
Ltd. who oversees $6.5 billion and holds Taiwan bonds. “The
performance of Taiwan over the last couple of years has been
good, so, I don’t see a change.”  China regards Taiwan, ruled separately since the end of a
civil war in 1949, as its own territory and was enraged when the
DPP’s Chen Shui-bian pushed for recognition as a sovereign
nation during his presidency that ended in 2008. Relations
thawed as Ma took office in 2008 and signed a series of pacts.  Yields Decline  The yield on the 1.25 percent notes due September 2021
closed at a two-week low yesterday, prices from Gretai
Securities Market show. The yield advantage over similar-
maturity U.S. debt has narrowed to 63 basis points from as high
as 255 basis points in April, 2010, bolstering appetite from
investors, said  De Mello . Rules limit investment in debt and
money-market products to 30 percent of foreign investors’ Taiwan
holdings.  Ten-year yields could test 1.2 percent by March 31 as
 Europe ’s debt crisis hurts Taiwan’s overseas sales, said  Albert Lee , a fixed-income trader at  Cathay United Bank Co (2826) .  Exports rose 0.6 percent from a year earlier in December,
the slowest pace in 26 months, finance ministry data show. The
central bank left its  benchmark rate  unchanged at 1.875 percent
for a second straight quarterly meeting last month. The
government cut its 2011 economic expansion forecast to 4.5
percent and said growth will slow to 4.2 percent this year.  Ma Leading  “Whoever wins, there won’t be a U-turn in the policy
towards China because Taiwan’s economy is dependent on the
mainland and they can’t afford to be backtracking on it,” said
Rees Kam, a Hong Kong-based senior strategist at SJS Markets
Ltd. “The Taiwanese dollar is considered a low-risk currency in
the region.”  Taiwan’s dollar reached the strongest level since Nov. 1
yesterday and strengthened 0.2 percent to NT$29.937 today. The
Taiex index of shares rose 0.7 percent this week to 7,172.58,
bringing its advance this year to 1.4 percent. Foreign investors
poured $594 million into the stock market this week on the
prospect Ma will win.  Repatriation of Funds  “Investors are confident that things with China will still
be the same after the election,” said Samson Tu, who helps
oversee $1.6 billion of fixed-income securities as a  fund
manager  at Uni-President Assets Management Corp. in Taipei. “I
don’t think Tsai will unwind the efforts Ma has undertaken to
improve relations with China.”  Taiwan, an island with a population of 23 million, has been
flooded with cash since the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. in September 2008 as companies sent money home to avoid
losses in overseas markets, Tu said. M2 money supply has surged
17 percent in that period and the overnight money-market rate,
which measures interbank funding availability, has slumped 165
basis points, or 1.65 percentage point.  An opposition win would mean slower economic growth and
less appetite for the island’s assets among foreign investors,
said  Tim Condon , head of  Asia  research at ING Groep NV in
 Singapore . Global funds pumped $9.6 billion into Taiwan’s stocks
in 2010 on speculation closer ties with China will boost the
island’s economy, which  grew  10.7 percent. They sold $9.1
billion more local shares than they bought last year.  Political Risk  Financial markets slumped after DPP’s Chen won the
presidencies in 2000 and 2004. The  Taiex index  fell 9.4 percent
in the two days following his second victory, after he was shot
while campaigning in his hometown of Tainan. The government
bought stocks and the currency to stem losses.  A government-backed stock stabilization fund also supported
the market in March 1996 when China test-fired missiles within
about 30 miles of Taiwan’s two biggest ports in an attempt to
intimidate people to vote against former President Lee Teng-hui,
who published a state-to-state relations doctrine that led China
to brand him “a rat.”  The local  stock index  has tracked the performance of the
 MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  of equities under Ma, whereas it lagged
behind under Chen’s rule. Since Ma took office in 2008, the
Taiwanese gauge is down about 24 percent, against the 26 percent
drop for the MSCI measure. Under Chen, the Taiex was up 1.9
percent, while the regional index climbed 35 percent.  DPP Risk  “It’s a risk if the DPP wins,” said Condon. “It’s not
investment-friendly. Taiwan’s economy is one of the few
economies in the world where economic growth has increased after
the global financial crisis and the reason for that is China.”  China passed the U.S. as Taiwan’s largest trading partner
in 2002. Two-way trade reached $160 billion last year, according
to Chinese customs statistics, a 10 percent increase from a year
earlier. Under the first trade accord signed by the two sides in
2010, China agreed to open markets in 11 service sectors such as
banking and to cut duties on Taiwanese imports worth $13.8
billion in 2009, or about 16 percent of the total.  Tsai said in an interview in November the pact will need
“constant review” and any changes will follow the “democratic
process.” Tsai rallied more than 100,000 people to oppose the
accord in 2009, which Ma’s administration said will help create
more than 260,000 jobs.  Warming Ties  In the first 11 months of last year, Taiwan’s investment in
the mainland rose to $12.4 billion, from $10.2 billion a year
earlier, government data show. Visitors from mainland China rose
6 percent to 1.6 million in the period.  Ma was widening his narrow lead over Tsai in public opinion
polls taken prior to a blackout period for voter surveys that
began on Jan. 4. Taiwanese law bars publication or release of
polls 10 days prior to presidential elections.  “We’ll probably see a knee-jerk rally for the  Taiwan
dollar  if Ma wins because that means China-Taiwan relations will
continue to develop,” said  Sacha Tihanyi , a Hong Kong-based
strategist at Scotia Capital, the investment banking unit of
Bank of  Nova Scotia ,  Canada ’s third-largest lender. “If the
opposition sticks to the script that they’ll maintain the status
quo, it’s a confidence builder.”  Tihanyi forecasts a gain in the Taiwan dollar to NT$29.90
per dollar by the end of March.  -- Editors: Sandy Hendry, Emma O’Brien  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net 
Kyoungwha Kim in Beijing at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  