-- Lloyds Hires Richard Moore as Head of Trading From MF Global
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-01-12T15:04:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/lloyds-hires-richard-moore-as-head-of-trading-from-mf-global.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , Britain’s
largest mortgage provider, hired Richard Moore as head of
trading from  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , where he was chief
executive officer for  Europe .  The bank also hired  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s  Cris Kinrade as head of counterparty exposure management and
solutions, reporting to Moore, Lloyds said in a statement today.
Both will be based in  London , with Moore starting on March 1,
the firm said.  “Under Moore’s leadership, the trading team will continue
to provide sophisticated risk management and the access to
financial markets and products necessary to support the funding
and cash management activities” of its corporate clients,
Lloyds said.  MF Global’s competitors have swooped on the broker’s
employees since it filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31. ICAP Plc,
the biggest broker of transactions between banks, last month
hired Gary Pettit and 25 more employees from MF Global to expand
its financial futures and options business. Marex Spectron
Group, a closely held commodities broker, also hired more than
12 brokers from MF Global in December.  Moore has spent 25 years in the financial-services sector,
including working with  Citigroup Inc. (C)  from 1986 to 2008, Lloyds
said. He was the CEO of MF Global in Europe since joining in
April 2011.  RBS, Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, said today it
will cut 3,500 jobs at its investment bank over the next three
years as it jettisons unprofitable cash equities and mergers
advisory operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  