-- Toyota’s No. 1 Camry Under Siege With an Unprecedented 7 Competitors: Cars
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h   a n d   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/toyota-s-no-1-camry-under-siege-with-an-unprecedented-7-competitors-cars.html
Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  survived a
massive recall two years ago and the effects of Japan’s tsunami
last year. Now the company faces an unprecedented rush of
competitors for its franchise car, the Camry family sedan.  The Camry, the best-selling mid-size car in the U.S. for
the past 10 years, faces new family-sedan competition this year
from  Honda Motor Co. (7267) , Nissan Motor Co.,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and
 General Motors Co. (GM)   Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and Kia
Motors Corp. have raised production of their family cars, making
the market even more competitive.  Add it all up and the mid-size car market is as tough as it
has ever been, even for a dominant franchise like the Camry.
Family cars represent 15 percent of the U.S. market and a vital
way to reach new buyers and keep them in their brands for years
beyond the first purchase.  “There has never been anything like this before,” said
 Jeremy Anwyl , vice chairman of Edmunds.com, an automotive
research website based in  Santa Monica ,  California . “We have
had competitive races with two or three new models, but not
seven or eight competitive cars fighting it out.”  This year, Ford brings out its new Fusion sedan, with two
hybrid versions of the car. GM’s top-selling Chevrolet division
started delivering the redesigned Malibu this month. Honda
showed off a coupe version of its Accord at the Detroit auto
show this week and will sell the new car later this year. Nissan
has a new Altima coming as well.  Adding Output  On top of that, Kia has added a third shift to its U.S.
plant to increase production of the Optima sedan. Hyundai last
year boosted production at its Montgomery,  Alabama , plant to 10
percent more than its official capacity. Volkswagen is now up to
full output at its $1 billion Chattanooga, Tennessee, factory
that began producing Passat sedans last spring.  “We haven’t seen anything like this since back in the ‘90s,
when Ford made a push with the Taurus,” said  Jim Lentz ,
president of Toyota’s U.S. sales arm.  Mid-size car production in  North America  may rise 15
percent, or 305,000, to 2.4 million vehicles this year,
according to a forecast from LMC Automotive, a research firm
based in Oxford,  England . Most of those cars stay in the U.S.,
where sales are expected to rise by 100,000 to 200,000 vehicles,
said  Jeff Schuster , senior vice president with LMC.  “There will be pricing pressure,” Anwyl said. Carmakers
used to be able to rely on keeping prices up and avoiding
incentives for a year or more with a new model, Anwyl said. With
this kind of competition, carmakers may have as little as three
months before discounts are needed, he said.  Ford Ambitions  Ford has big ambitions for the new Fusion. The Dearborn,
Michigan-based automaker is adding a shift of workers to make
the car at a factory in nearby Flat Rock, adding to the two
shifts of workers building it in Hermosillo,  Mexico . Sales of
the Fusion rose 37 percent from two years earlier to 248,067
last year, Ford reported. The new hybrid version will get 47 mpg
in the city, up from 41 for the previous one. The Camry hybrid
gets 43 mpg in city driving.  “Fusion last year set a sales record, and with this new
family of vehicles, we believe we can build on that success,”
Chief Executive Officer Alan Mulally said Jan. 9 when asked if
Fusion can be the top selling mid-size car. “I think we really
will be preferred in that” mid-size car segment.  GM is also adding production by using its Chevy Volt plant
in  Detroit  as a second source of Malibus, in addition to the
primary factory in Fairfax,  Kansas .  With so many new models entering the family-car market, it
will be a challenge for anyone to stand out, said  Joel Ewanick ,
GM vice president and chief marketing officer. Chevy will offer
an Eco version of the Malibu that can get 37 mpg on the highway
with a small, inexpensive electric motor and battery mated to a
4-cylinder engine.  Honda’s Rebound  Honda said it hopes sell more than 300,000 Accords in the
U.S. this year, which would be a 27 percent jump over 2011. The
increase will come from both the current Accord and the
redesigned model due in the second half, said  John Mendel ,
executive vice president of the company’s U.S. sales unit.  Mendel said that fresh styling and new engines and
transmissions will bring Honda back after production cuts forced
by the  Japan  tsunami in March caused losses in market share.  “A few people have taken us to task and enjoyed our
absence from the market,” Mendel said in an interview in
Detroit. “I think we’re going to enjoy being back.”  Honda could be hurt in the family-sedan market because the
new Camry was introduced in the fourth quarter while the new
Accord is still months away, said Mike O’Brien, Hyundai’s vice
president for U.S. product development.  Top Two  “In terms of model cycles, Toyota realizes this is their
year to capture share from Honda because Accord is old and Camry
is new,” O’Brien said in a Jan. 11 interview. “There’s going
to be a big battle between those two, and there is going to be
collateral damage. Toyota is going to be very aggressive on
marketing.”  The company is determined to keep its top spot.  “It will be a heated segment in the industry, but we’re
extremely confident about the new Camry,” said Bob Carter,
general manager of Toyota brand sales in the U.S. “Mark my
words: One year from now, Camry will repeat as the best-selling
car in America for an eleventh consecutive year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Welch in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Ohnsman in Detroit at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at   jbutters@bloomberg.net  