-- PBOC Says Conditions for Interest-Rate Reform ‘Basically Ready’
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-01-12T11:21:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/pboc-says-conditions-for-interest-rate-reform-basically-ready-.html
Conditions in  China  for  interest-
rate  reform to make the cost of money more market-based are
“basically ready,” the People’s Bank of China said today.  Reform will proceed after “taking full consideration of
the domestic and overseas economic and financial situations,”
the central bank said in a one-paragraph note appended to the
republication of comments Governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  made at a
conference the end of 2010 and first posted on the PBOC’s
website in January last year.  The government announced its intention to establish a
market-oriented interest-rate system in 1993 and in 2003 pledged
to “steadily push ahead with interest-rate reform.” Steps have
included the removal of a ceiling on lending rates in 2004 and
allowing borrowing costs to vary up to a range of 10 percent
lower than the benchmark rate. China needs to change the way
 interest rates  are set and allow the yuan to trade more freely
to help contain risks in its financial system, the  International
Monetary Fund  said in a report in November.  In a Jan. 8 interview with the official Xinhua News Agency,
Zhou said that while “there are no major obstacles in
thinking” to proceed with interest-rate reform, the current
timing “isn’t very good.” The “overly large” gap between
interest rates in China and some developed nations where the
rate is zero, may “exert very big pressure on capital flows,”
he said.  He made similar comments in an  interview  with the Caixin
Century Weekly magazine published on Jan. 2.  Informal-Lending Boom  China’s benchmark one-year  deposit rate  is 3.5 percent and
the one-year lending rate is 6.56 percent. The U.S. Federal
Reserve’s benchmark interest rate is close to zero while the
 European Central Bank ’s rate is 1 percent.  State control over interest rates in China has led to a
boom in informal lending and a surge in wealth management and
trust products that offer returns that are higher than bank
deposit rates. Deposit rates, while not subject to a floor, are
capped by the central bank. The benchmark one-year deposit rate
has lagged behind consumer-price inflation for 23 months.  Zhou’s article republished today listed conditions that
would be needed to liberalize interest rates including a “fully
fair market competition environment,” “a market-based pricing
system for financial products and services” and “further
improvement in the transmission mechanism of monetary policy.”  --Victoria Ruan, Li Yanping. Editors: Nerys Avery, Cherian Thomas  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Victoria Ruan in Beijing at 
 vruan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Anstey at 
 canstey@bloomberg.net  