-- Fund Sues MetLife Claiming False Data Punished Stock
-- B y   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-01-14T17:25:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/pension-fund-sues-metlife-claiming-false-financial-data-punished-stock.html
(Corrects description of database in third paragraph of
story published Jan. 12.)  MetLife Inc. , the biggest U.S. life
insurer, was sued by a Michigan police and firefighters pension
fund for allegedly misleading investors about its finances,
triggering declines in the stock price.  The City of Westland Police & Fire Retirement System filed
a proposed class action, or group suit, today in U.S. District
Court in  Manhattan  on behalf of MetLife shareholders against the
company and its executives, saying the New York-based insurer
made false and misleading statements about its financial
condition.  MetLife didn’t regularly use a government-maintained
database, the Social Security Administration Death Master File,
to determine whether holders of its annuity policies had died,
according to the complaint. Because of that, the New York-based
company issued financial statements that didn’t take into
account “millions of dollars of benefits that should have been
paid out,” the pension fund said.  “We believe our disclosures were appropriate,”  John Calagna , a spokesman for MetLife, said in an e-mailed statement.  The company reported in August that regulatory
investigations into its death-benefits practices might result in
substantial costs, and the stock  fell  11 percent on the news,
according to the complaint.  After-Tax Charge  MetLife said in October that it would take at least a $115
million  after-tax charge  in connection with the death benefits,
and the stock fell 6 percent.  Defendants in the suit include C. Robert Henrikson, the
former chief executive officer, and William Wheeler, the former
finance chief and current president of the Americas.  The suit seeks to represent people who bought the stock
from Feb. 2, 2010, to Oct. 6, 2011.  MetLife rose 14 cents to $35.93 at 4:15 p.m. in  New York 
Stock Exchange  composite trading . The shares have fallen 23
percent in the past 12 months.  The case is City of Westland Police & Fire Retirement
System v. MetLife, 1:12-cv-00256, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Jeffrey in New York at 
 djeffrey1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 