-- Perrigo Store Brands to Boost Sales After Record Year, CEO Says
-- B y   T a l   B a r a k   H a r i f
-- 2012-01-12T19:39:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/perrigo-store-brands-to-boost-sales-after-record-year-ceo-says.html
Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest U.S. maker
of generic over-the-counter drugs, aims to top last year’s
record sales by expanding its store brand business and offering
new products, Chief Executive Officer Joseph Papa said.  Perrigo will add about $190 million in revenue by selling
45 new drugs in fiscal 2012, about the same number it introduced
last year when reporting $2.76 billion in sales, Papa, 56, said
in a telephone interview from Allegan,  Michigan . Revenue will
rise 17 percent to $3.23 billion in 2012, according to the
median estimate of 14 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The company, which bought B’nei Brak, Israel-based Agis
Industries Ltd. in 2005, is benefiting as consumers switch from
more expensive brand names amid sluggish economic growth. Data
showed today that  sales  at U.S. retailers in December rose less
than analysts predicted and more Americans than forecast filed
applications for  unemployment benefits  last week.  “It’s still a very challenging economy,” said Papa, who
is a pharmacist by training. “Consumers have to cut back and
they get between 25 percent to 30 percent in savings.”  The company was added to the  Standard & Poor’s 500  and
Nasdaq 100 indexes last year after its market share jumped
following a 54 percent  gain  in the New York stock.  45 Billion Tablets  Perrigo, which produces 45 billion pharmaceutical tablets a
year, was little changed at $97.44 by 2:29 p.m. in New York
after shares in  Tel Aviv  dropped 1.2 percent to 376.60 shekels,
or the equivalent of $98.28.  The United States District Court for the Western District
of Michigan ruled in Perrigo’s favor in patent litigation
involving  Adams Respiratory Therapeutics Inc. (ARXT) ’s Mucinex tablets,
the drugmaker said in a statement today.  The company, whose products are sold at  CVS Caremark Corp. (CVS) 
and  Walgreen Co. (WAG) , also sells store-branded versions of
AstraZeneca Plc’s Prilosec OTC heartburn medicine and Johnson &
Johnson’s Zyrtec allergy treatment.  Perrigo plans more mergers and acquisitions after signing
an agreement this week to buy all of the assets of Can-Am Care,
a privately held Georgia-based distributor of diabetes care
products for about $36 million in cash.  The company is looking to focus on the diabetes, wound
care, pet care, and adult nutrition segments for further M&As,
Papa said. The company, which currently gets 20 percent of sales
from outside the U.S., will also look to expand its global
footprint, he added.  “We continue to look for appropriate mergers and
acquisitions,” Papa said. “We think there’s an opportunity to
do more in order to get our business to be more global.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tal Barak Harif in  New York  at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  