-- Peru May Keep 4.25% Rate for Eighth Month as Inflation Rises
-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 2012-01-12T15:31:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/peru-may-keep-4-25-rate-for-eighth-month-on-economic-slowdown.html
Peru ’s central bank will probably
keep its benchmark  interest rate  unchanged for an eighth month
today as the highest inflation rate since 2009 prevents policy
makers from doing more to shore up economic growth.  The bank will keep the  overnight rate  at 4.25 percent,
according to all 13 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. The seven-
member board, led by bank President Julio Velarde, will announce
its decision at about 6 p.m. local time.  Peru’s economy expanded at the slowest pace in 21 months in
October as the European debt crisis weighed on commodity prices
and worldwide demand. The central bank is likely to keep rates
on hold as it waits to see if stagnation in  Europe  pushes growth
in Peru’s commodity-dependent economy still lower, said Pedro Tuesta, an economist at 4Cast Inc.  “Policy makers must be concerned about growing inflation
expectations, but they seem optimistic about a slowdown in
prices this year,” Tuesta said in a phone interview from
 Washington . “They won’t have space to cut unless there is an
implosion in Europe.”  The central bank last month repeated its view that 2012
economic growth and domestic demand will remain below potential
while attributing the pace of inflation to  “temporary supply
factors.”   Above Potential  Gross domestic product will rise 5.5 percent in 2012,
Velarde said Dec. 16, down from an estimate of 5.7 percent three
months earlier, on slower exports and private investment. GDP
probably rose 6.8 percent in 2011, exceeding the economy’s
potential growth rate of about 6.5 percent, he said.  Social unrest remains a threat to growth after protests led
Newmont Mining Corp. to suspend its Minas Conga gold mine
expansion in November, said Roberto Melzi, a strategist at
Barclays Capital Inc.  “In a scenario in which you have three other Congas and
private investment collapses or decelerates further, then you
would see the central bank stepping in” and cutting rates this
year, Melzi said in a phone interview from  New York .  Peru posted its first trade deficit in 34 months in
November on weaker global demand for its metals and energy
exports.  Metals, Growth  The Andean country is the world’s third-largest exporter of
copper and zinc, sixth in gold and a leading exporter of silver.
Metals led by copper account for two thirds of its exports.
Neighboring  Chile , the world’s largest copper exporter, is also
expected to leave interest rates unchanged today, according to
the median estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Copper prices fell 23 percent last year as Europe’s fiscal
woes threatened global growth and demand waned in  China , the
world’s top metals buyer.  South America ’s sixth-largest economy expanded 5.1 percent
in October from a year earlier, the slowest pace since January
2010. The national statistics agency will disclose November’s
growth rate Jan. 16.  Peru’s  annual inflation rate  rose to 4.74 percent in
December as food prices increased on tighter domestic supply.  Inflation expectations for 2012 climbed for a third
straight month in December to 3 percent, compared with 2.8
percent in November, according to a central bank survey
published Jan. 9.  The central bank targets annual inflation of 1 percent to 3
percent.  Prices, Rate Horizon  Inflation will ease starting in the second quarter as food
prices stabilize and activity decelerates, Lima-based  BBVA Banco
Continental  said in a Jan. 5 note to clients.  Companies were less optimistic about the economy and
domestic demand in December compared with November, the central
bank survey showed.  Consumer confidence  jumped to a record.  The central bank’s monetary stance is neutral and what
happens in the world economy will determine whether the next
move is a rate increase or rate reduction, Velarde said at a
Dec. 16 news conference.  The sol rose to 2.6910 per  U.S. dollar  Jan. 9, its
strongest level since April 2008, as investors bet the economy
will withstand the global slowdown. The currency strengthened
0.2 percent to 2.6883 per dollar at 10:29 a.m. in  Lima .  The yield on Peru’s benchmark sol-denominated bond due
August 2020 has fallen four basis points this month to 5.71
percent while the  Lima General Index (IGBVL)  of stocks has gained 4.6
percent.  “Given the recent strength of private domestic demand and
the likely reversal of the contraction in public sector demand
this year,” the central bank will probably restart its
tightening cycle this year, provided the world avoids recession,
Morgan Stanley said in a Jan. 9 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 