-- PharMerica Drops on Report Its Takeover May Be Blocked by U.S. Regulators
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-12T21:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/pharmerica-drops-on-report-its-takeover-my-be-blocked-by-u-s-regulators.html
PharMerica Corp. (PMC)  fell the most in
three months after the  New York  Post reported U.S. regulators
may block  Omnicare Inc. (OCR) ’s $440.8 million takeover of the drug-
supply company. Omnicare also declined.  PharMerica, based in Louisville, Kentucky, decreased 8.2
percent to $13.74 at the close in New York, its biggest drop
since Oct. 4. A decision on Omnicare’s unsolicited offer of $15
a share by the Federal Trade Commission may come by the end of
next week, the newspaper said, citing an unidentified source
familiar with the situation.  Omnicare, in a filing, earlier this week said it agreed not
to complete the PharMerica offer before Jan. 26 unless the FTC
notifies the company that the regulatory review is finished. The
deal may enable Covington, Kentucky-based Omnicare to control as
much as 60 percent of the market to distribute drugs to nursing
homes, hospitals and hospices, said  Jeff Jonas , an analyst with
Gabelli & Co. in Rye, New York.  “The problem is there aren’t really any other big
competitors out there,” Jonas said in a telephone interview.
“I’m inclined to believe that this would be blocked. There’s
nobody else of any scale out there.”  Omnicare fell 7 percent to $32.90. The shares have gained
28 percent in the past 12 months. The deal has a value of $716
million including net debt, Omnicare said when announcing the
takeover bid in August.  Antitrust Issue  “People are concerned about the antitrust issue,” said
 Jason Gurda , an analyst with Leerink Swann & Co. in  Boston . The
New York Post journalist has a history covering deals, so
investors can’t ignore the story, Gurda said in a telephone
interview.  Omnicare declined to comment, said Jamie Moser, an outside
spokeswoman. PharMerica doesn’t take part in the discussions
between the FTC and Omnicare and doesn’t have any details, said
Meghan Stafford, a PharMerica spokeswoman.  “Omni was, has been and continues to be unwilling to
discuss any FTC matters with us,” Gregory Weishar, the chief
executive officer of PharMerica, said today during a
presentation at the J.P. Morgan Healthcare conference in  San
Francisco .  The deal offers an opportunity to achieve efficiencies
through automation and scale, Omnicare CEO John Figueroa said
when the deal was announced in August. Omnicare is trying to
save money amid U.S. cuts to health-care spending, he said.  The deal would save more money than is reflected in the bid
price, which is why PharMerica rejects it, Weishar said.  Undervalued  “It undervalues PharMerica,” he said. “Reasonable
success in executing our growth strategy will lead to greater
 shareholder value  than the $15.”  Increased antitrust scrutiny from U.S. regulators under
President  Barack Obama  already scuttled two of 2011’s biggest
proposed acquisitions.  Dallas-based  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s $39 billion bid for T-Mobile USA,
which would have made it the largest U.S. wireless carrier, fell
apart last month following a lawsuit from the  Justice Department 
and possible opposition from the Federal Communications
Commission.  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.
dropped their $11.3 billion bid for NYSE Euronext in May after
the Justice Department, citing monopoly concerns, indicated it
would block the proposal.  “Obama promised that he’d be tougher on this and they’re
raising the bar,” Jonas said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net . 