-- Pimco’s Gross Says Global Economy, Markets at Risk in 2012
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-01-12T22:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/pimco-s-gross-says-global-economy-markets-at-risk-in-2012.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., said the
global economy and financial markets are at risk in 2012,
boosting the appeal of U.S. Treasuries.  “Banks should be eight-to-one or nine-to-one in terms of
leverage,” Gross said in a Bloomberg Television interview with
Trish Regan. “Right now, the system is an 18-times to 20-times
overleveraged system, and that’s producing the risk in terms of
tipping one way or the other.”  The $244 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  run by Gross increased
its holdings of  U.S. government debt  in December to the highest
level in 13 months, Pimco said yesterday. The fund’s proportion
of U.S. government and Treasury debt climbed to 30 percent, from
23 percent in November, according to a statement on its website.  “For the moment, the  U.S. Treasury  is viewed as a safe
haven,” Gross said. “Until we see some clear evidence in terms
of where the world is going, reflation or deflation, then that’s
a decent alternative. It allows you to get your money back.
That’s how they are willing to pay and to accept low-interest
rates as an insurance against a delevering credit event.”  Change in Outlook  Last week, Gross backed away from Pimco’s “new normal”
outlook after lagging behind the majority of his peers during
the biggest bond-market rally in nine years. The period of muted
growth in developed economies, high unemployment and
“relatively orderly” deleveraging that Mohamed El-Erian, who
shares the title of chief investment officer with Gross, dubbed
the new normal in the aftermath of the 2008 financial crisis is
morphing into a world of credit and zero-bound interest-rate
risk, Gross wrote in his monthly investment  commentary  released
Jan. 4.  Pimco has been advising investors to buy U.S. Treasuries,
long-term inflation-indexed  U.S. debt , “high-quality”
corporates, senior bank debt and municipal securities. The
recommendations are a departure from Gross’s call last year,
when he advised buying emerging-market debt and cautioned
investors to stay away from the U.S., noting that growth would
be higher in developing economies, while excessive borrowing
would lead to inflation.  “We wouldn’t advocate 30-year Treasuries,”  Newport Beach ,
California-based Gross said today, adding that five- and 10-year
Treasuries are more attractive although their returns are not
great. “We buy into the 2 percent recovery, and we expect in
the first and second quarter for it to continue,” he said.  ECB Measures  The ECB acted last month to ensure banks have enough cash
after yields on European sovereign bonds rose amid the region’s
debt crisis. The Frankfurt-based bank offered a three-year
longer-term refinancing operation from Dec. 21 to replace the
one-year facility announced in October.  “These measures should ensure enhanced access of the
banking sector to liquidity and facilitate the functioning of
the euro-area money market,” ECB President  Mario Draghi  told
reporters on Dec. 8.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Trish Regan in New York at 
 Tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  