-- Pound Slides Versus Euro on Speculation BOE Will Increase Bond Purchases
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e
-- 2012-01-12T15:40:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/pound-slides-versus-euro-on-speculation-boe-will-increase-bond-purchases.html
The pound fell the most in seven
weeks against the euro amid speculation the  Bank of England  will
expand its bond-buying program this year to spur growth after
keeping monetary policy unchanged at a meeting today.  Sterling dropped to a two-month low against the dollar and
reached the weakest in five months versus  Australia ’s currency.
The pound extended its decline versus the euro as European
Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said he saw signs of
stability in the single-currency area. Gilts dropped after  Spain 
raised almost double the maximum target at a bond sale today,
reducing demand for safer assets.  “There is still downward pressure on sterling given the
Bank of England is likely to expand the quantitative-easing
program to prevent the economy from going into recession,” said
 Lee Hardman , a currency strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi
UFJ Ltd. in London. “The ECB sounded more optimistic today and
that triggered” some investors to end bets that the euro will
weaken against the pound, he said.  The pound dropped 0.8 percent to 83.57 pence per euro at
3:37 p.m. in London after falling as much as 1 percent, the most
since Nov. 21. Sterling was little changed at $1.5328 after
sliding to $1.5279, the least since Oct. 6. The currency fell to
A$1.4801, the weakest since Aug. 1, before trading little
changed at A$1.4867.  The Monetary Policy Committee kept its benchmark interest
rate at 0.5 percent, and maintained its asset-purchase target at
275 billion pounds, as forecast in Bloomberg News survey of
economists. The central bank has been buying about 5.1 billion
pounds of gilts a week since October.  ‘Difficult Year’  The Bank of England cut its 2012 growth forecast in
November, a month after it increased its so-called quantitative
easing target by 75 billion pounds. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said on Jan. 5 this will be a “difficult year.”  The pound also fell after a government report showed U.K.
manufacturing production shrank for a second month in November.  Factory output dropped 0.2 percent from the previous month,
when it declined a revised 0.9 percent, the  Office for National
Statistics  said. The trade deficit widened to 8.64 billion
pounds in November from a revised 7.87 billion pounds in
October, the office said yesterday.  Gilts declined after Spanish and Italian borrowing costs
declined at auctions today, fueling speculation the European
sovereign-debt crisis is easing.  Spain sold new benchmark three-year debt at an average
yield of 3.384 percent, down from 5.187 percent at the previous
offering on Dec. 1. Italy auctioned one-year bills at 2.735
percent, versus 5.952 percent at the prior sale on Dec. 12.  ‘Take Profits’  “Gilts are quite rich on an outright basis and some
investors may want to use this opportunity to take profits,”
said Vatsala Datta, an interest-rate strategist at Lloyds Bank
Corporate Markets in  London . “Longer-term, there’s scope for
gilts to outperform German bonds again because of the debt
crisis.”  The  yield  on the 10-year gilt rose one basis point to 2.02
percent. The 3.75 percent bond due in September 2021 fell 0.135,
or 1.35 pound per 1,000 pound face amount, to 115.105. Two-year
rates climbed two basis points to 0.4 percent.  Speaking after the ECB left its benchmark rate on hold at 1
percent, Draghi said there are some signs the euro-area economy
is steadying even as the sovereign-debt crisis poses downside
risks to the outlook.  “There are tentative signs of stabilization of economic
activity at low levels,” Draghi said at a press conference in
 Frankfurt . “The economic outlook remains subject to high
uncertainty and substantial downside risks,” he added.  Rate Forecast  The ECB will lower borrowing costs by a further 25 basis
points to 0.75 percent by the end of the first quarter, while
the Bank of England will keep its main rate at 0.5 percent,
according to economist forecasts compiled by Bloomberg.  “We continue to view rallies in the euro against the pound
as selling opportunities,” said Jane Foley, a senior currency
strategist at Rabobank International in London. “Despite the
quantitative-easing risk, the U.K.’s position outside the
European Monetary Union is likely to draw further support for
the pound.”  The U.K. 10-year  break-even  rate, a gauge of market
inflation expectations derived from the difference in yield
between regular and index-linked bonds, narrowed for a fourth
day, shrinking one basis point to 2.70 percentage points.  The implied yield on short-sterling  interest-rate  futures
maturing in March fell three basis points to 1.05 percent,
signaling investors are increasing bets that the central bank
will loosen monetary policy further.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  