-- Public Citizen Criticizes U.S. Regulators for Not Recalling Stryker Stent
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-13T00:37:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/public-citizen-criticizes-u-s-regulators-for-not-recalling-stryker-stent.html
The U.S.  Food and Drug
Administration ’s failure to recall  Stryker Corp. (SYK) ’s Wingspan
stent, used to treat narrowed arteries in the brain, is putting
patients at risk, the consumer group Public Citizen said today.  The watchdog organization last year called on the agency to
pull the stent off the market after an independent panel halted
the first definitive trial of the device on safety risks.
Patients with clogged arteries deep in their  brains  were more
likely to have a stroke if the vessels were propped open with
the Wingspan stent instead of being treated with drugs,
according to the study known as Sammpris.  Leaving it on the market “represents reckless disregard
for patient safety,” the Washington-based consumer group said
today in an addendum to its petition. The  FDA  approved the
device in 2005 based on a humanitarian device exemption, without
evidence it helped patients, said Michael Carome, deputy
director of  Public Citizen ’s Health Research Group and author of
the petition asking the agency to recall the Wingspan.  “Given the evidence of significant harm with no evidence
of any benefit, there is no justification for any additional
patients to be treated with this dangerous device,” Carome said
in a statement. “The only way that further use of the device
can effectively and definitively be prevented is to immediately
remove the device from the market. To allow any further
implantation of this device would be highly unethical as well as
a violation of FDA laws and regulations.”  The FDA has received the addendum to the petition and will
review it and respond directly to Public Citizen, said Michelle
Bolek, an agency spokeswoman, in an e-mail.  Wingspan Revenue  Stryker, based in Kalamazoo,  Michigan ,  generated  $366.1
million in sales of neurovascular products, including Wingspan,
in the first three quarters of 2011. Stryker acquired the
Wingspan Stent System when it purchased  Boston Scientific
Corp. (BSX) ’s neurovascular unit in 2010. The study, funded by the
 National Institutes of Health , was halted early.  Stryker continues to support the use of the Wingspan
technology to increase the diameter of narrowed arteries in the
brain that don’t respond to drug treatment, said Tamara Cutler,
a company spokeswoman, in a statement. The Sammpris study
included patients with severe disease getting early treatment
and aggressive drug therapy, a group that isn’t covered by the
current approval, Cutler said.  Wingspan’s use is limited to no more than 4,000 patients a
year, she said. They should first be treated with drug therapy,
and considered for the device only if it’s ineffective, she
said. Patients were enrolled in the Sammpris study even if they
weren’t non-responsive to medical therapy, she said.  Stryker declined 1 percent to $52.49 at the close in  New
York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  