-- RBS Cuts 4,800 Jobs, Jettisons Equities
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   L i a m   V a u g h a n
-- 2012-01-12T17:19:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/rbs-to-lose-5-500-investment-bank-jobs-as-it-exits-mergers-cash-equities.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ,
Britain’s biggest government-owned bank, is to cut about 4,800
jobs including 3,500 at the investment bank as it jettisons
unprofitable units, citing volatile markets and the cost of new
U.K. regulation.  RBS (RBS)  will sell or close the cash equities, mergers advisory,
corporate broking and equity capital markets operations, and is
in talks with “a number of potential buyers” for the
operation, it said today in a statement. About a further 1,300
jobs are to be eliminated in other areas, including Ulster Bank
and corporate lending, said a person with knowledge of the
matter.  “We are pulling out of business areas that are
unprofitable and where we have weaker customer positions than
the market leading group of competitors,” Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Hester, 51, said in a memorandum circulated to
staff and confirmed by an RBS official. “We are also scaling
back resources in areas where market developments threaten our
ability to fund ourselves sustainably and profitably.”  RBS is reversing a decade of expansion to 2008, under
former CEO  Fred Goodwin , as regulators impose higher  capital
requirements  and as the sovereign debt crisis erodes
profitability and revenue at the investment bank. Today’s cuts
will reduce employees at the securities unit led by John Hourican by 29 percent to 13,500 by 2015 as the Edinburgh-based
bank focuses on fixed income, foreign exchange, debt financing,
transaction services and risk management.  Shares Rise  The bank  gained  5.6 percent to 23 pence in London for a
market value of 25.4 billion pounds ($39 billion) marking its
biggest gain in six weeks. That was the eighth-highest rise in
the 46-member Bloomberg  Europe  Banks and Financial Services
Index.  The U.K. government-sponsored Independent Commission on
Banking’s report last September proposed the insulation of
consumer banking operations from  investment banking , meaning
banks will no longer be allowed to use their consumer units to
provide cheap funding for investment banking. Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  in December also supported a scaling
back of the investment bank to reduce the lender’s riskier
activities and hasten a return to full private ownership.  In contrast to Goodwin’s $140 billion of acquisitions,
Hester has already retreated from some markets in  Asia , running
off loans and selling units including the European division of
commodities-trading business RBS Sempra, which JPMorgan Chase &
Co. bought for $1.7 billion.  Leasing Sale  RBS favors selling its aircraft leasing division to
Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc., which bid more than $7
billion, a person with knowledge of the matter said today. The
83 percent government-owned bank has announced almost 35,000 job
losses since it was bailed out.  “RBS staff have faced endless speculation and uncertainty
about their futures,” said  David Fleming , National Officer of
the Unite labor union. “Enough is enough.”  Europe’s sovereign debt crisis has forced securities firms
to scale back or close divisions that trade equities on the
continent. UniCredit SpA,  Italy ’s largest bank shut its European
equities unit in November, joining a growing list of companies
including Nomura Holdings Inc. that have eliminated jobs in the
region.  RBS hired John McIntyre, the former head of mergers and
acquisitions at Dresdner Kleinwort Ltd. in November 2008 to push
into mergers advisory. Instead the firm went backward in the M&A
league tables, from 15th in 2007 to 16th in 2009 and 20th in
2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The value of
mergers and acquisitions globally dropped from $4 trillion in
2007 to $1.77 trillion in 2009 and $2.28 trillion last year.  Political Furore  Hester’s plan is probably driven by “regulatory change in
terms of ring fencing and also partly driven by political furore
over the annual pay and bonuses,” said  Simon Willis , an analyst
at Daniel Stewart Securities Plc. “Dismantling the wholesale
banking business should alleviate some pressure.”  The lender plans to reduce the size of the investment
bank’s balance sheet over the next three years to 300 billion
pounds from 420 billion pounds today, RBS said in the statement.
The reductions will also reduce risk-weighted assets to less
than 150 billion pounds. A further 2,000 jobs in investment
banking were cut in the second half of last year, RBS said.  “We welcome this decision to further de-emphasize the
company’s less profitable, riskier and more capital intensive
operations,” Gary Greenwood, an analyst at Shore Capital in
Liverpool. The reduction in risk weighted assets should free
about 7.5 billion pounds of core Tier 1 capital assuming a 10
percent core Tier 1 capital ratio, he said.  Lost Ground  The bank has also lost ground as an underwriter of share
sales and initial public offerings. RBS was ranked 14th in
 equity capital markets  in 2008, 10th in 2009, 20th in 2010 and
24th last year, according data compiled by Bloomberg. The
businesses to be sold or closed provided 220 million pounds of
income in the first nine months of last year and are
unprofitable, the bank said.  The bank’s most recent results, for third quarter 2011,
showed investment banking revenue slipped 29 percent to 1.1
billion pounds from the year-earlier period. Revenue in the
securities unit’s credit operations declined 73 percent, fixed
income and currencies slumped by 59 percent while equities slid
42 percent, RBS said.  RBS may have about 1 billion pounds of costs relating to
the securities unit’s overhaul, wrote Robert Law, an analyst at
Nomura Holdings Inc. in a note to investors. The job losses may
bring annual savings of at least 750 million pounds, estimated
 Bruce Packard , an analyst at Seymour Pierce Ltd. in London.  Heads Named  RBS will divide its investment bank into Markets, which
will focus on fixed income, and International Banking, to
oversee debt financing, risk management and payment services,
the bank said. The bank named John Owen and Scott Barton as co-
chief executives of International Banking. Peter Nielsen
continues as head of markets and both divisions will report to
Hourican.  Other parts of the bank are also shrinking. RBS’s Irish
unit,  Ulster Bank  Ltd., said it plans to eliminate 950 jobs. RBS
also said yesterday it would cut 272 jobs at its U.K. Corporate
banking unit, about 2 percent of total corporate banking
workers, on slowing growth and volatility. The bank plans to cut
40 jobs within its wealth management unit, a person with
knowledge of the matter said today.  “I am also conscious that other parts of the group are
going through difficult people changes too,” Hester said in the
memo. “Any decision to reduce roles is deeply regrettable and
we will do all that we can to support the affected staff as best
we can.”  Separately, Barclays Plc, the U.K.’s second-largest bank by
assets, said today it was cutting 422 jobs in its British
technology division.  RBS’s decision today has some similarities with Barclays,
which in 1997 sold its Barclays de Zoete Wedd’s equities and
advisory business for about 100 million pounds to focus on fixed
income and foreign exchange, said  Christopher Wheeler , an
analyst at Mediobanca SpA in  London . The retained division was
renamed  Barclays Capital .  “Both of them ended up with sub-scale equities
businesses,” said Wheeler. “If you look at the track record
for BZW, at a rather better time in the market, they had to give
it away. The runes aren’t great for Royal Bank.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net 
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 Lvaughan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  