-- Redwood Trust Said to Plan Fourth MBS Sale Since Market Seized Up in 2008
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-01-12T18:33:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/redwood-trust-said-to-plan-fourth-mbs-sale-since-market-seized-up-in-2008.html
Redwood Trust Inc. (RWT)  plans to sell
securities backed by about $400 million of new U.S. home loans,
only the fourth sale of such debt since credit markets seized in
2008, according to two people with knowledge of the transaction.  The deal may be completed as soon as next week, said the
people, who declined to be identified because terms aren’t set.
 Mill Valley , California-based Redwood, which focuses on so-
called jumbo loans, issued all three prior  non-agency 
transactions, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Credit Suisse
Group AG is managing the offering, one of the people said.  Redwood’s two deals last year and one in 2010, backed by a
total of less than $1 billion of mortgages, followed the
collapse of the market as prices tumbled, foreclosures soared
and  home prices plunged , helping spark the worst financial
crisis since the 1930s. Issuance peaked at about $1.2 trillion
in each of 2005 and 2006, and may total $5 billion this year,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts.  “We are cautiously optimistic that private securitization
will return eventually, but we look for several necessary steps
to clear the way,” the analysts led by Matthew Jozoff in  New
York  said in a report discussing their outlook for 2012.  For now, government-supported mortgage programs and demand
from banks are limiting the supply of home loans that  Wall
Street  and other issuers can package into bonds, they wrote in
the Nov. 23 report. Sales of U.S. commercial-mortgage bonds,
which totaled $28 billion last year after that market thawed
following a similar freeze after 2008, may reach as much as $45
billion in 2012, according to Credit Suisse analysts.  Protection Against Losses  The loans, whose balances average $932,000, have combined
loan-to-value ratios of 65 percent and borrower credit scores
average 770, on a scale that ranges from 300 to 850, one of the
people said. The so-called credit support, or protection against
losses, for the senior class is 8.25 percent and  Fitch Ratings 
and Kroll Bond Ratings are grading the deal, the person said.  Dow Jones Newswires reported the offering earlier today.  Jumbo mortgages are larger than government-supported  Fannie
Mae  and  Freddie Mac  can finance, now from $417,000 in most
places to $625,550 in high-cost areas, after a decrease from as
much $729,750 on Oct. 1.  Redwood, a real estate investment trust which only
completed one additional deal in 2011 after saying in September
that it expected two more, has said that the lower limits may
help increase the supply of loans for private securitization.  Slowing Foreclosures  Loans bought or guaranteed by Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, the
 Federal Housing Administration  or other U.S. agencies have been
representing about 90 percent of new home lending, according to
newsletter Inside Mortgage Finance. Non-agency mortgage bonds
lack guarantees from  Fannie Mae (FNMA) , Freddie Mac or U.S. government-
owned Ginnie Mae.  Demand for non-agency home-loan securities also has been
damaged by regulatory efforts to slow  foreclosures , something
that policy makers should keep in mind as Federal Reserve
officials call for a removal of all barriers to the refinancing
of loans held by agency securities, said Tom Sontag, a bond
manager in  Chicago  at Neuberger Berman Group LLC, which oversees
about $183 billion.  Such refinancing would damage bond investors, making them
even more wary, and then “who’s going to step into the breach
and move mortgage finance along if they shut down Fannie and
Freddie, which many politicians are screaming they want to do,”
he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  