-- Three Smallest-Yet Planets Outside Solar System Found by Kepler, NASA Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-01-12T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/three-smallest-yet-planets-outside-solar-system-found-nasa-says.html
Three of the smallest planets to be
detected beyond the sun, all orbiting a single red dwarf star,
have been found by the Kepler spacecraft, and scientists say
there may be similar planets all over the galaxy.  Using data from the  Kepler mission , scientists found
planets about 0.78, 0.73 and 0.57 times the radius of the earth,
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration said in a
report today. The smallest of the planets is the size of Mars,
the agency said.  The three planets, all rocky like the Earth, are probably
too close to their star to have liquid water, the report said. A
 red dwarf  star, is the most common type in the Milky Way. This
particular one is a sixth the size of the sun, or almost twice
the size of Jupiter, according to NASA. The finding suggests
that there could be similar rocky planets all over the galaxy,
scientists said in the statement.  “Astronomers are just beginning to confirm thousands of
planet candidates uncovered by Kepler so far,” said Doug
Hudgins, who is a Kepler program scientist at  NASA ’s
headquarters in  Washington , in the statement. “Finding one as
small as Mars is amazing, and hints that there may be a bounty
of rocky planets all around us.”  The Kepler spacecraft, launched in 2009 to find habitable
celestial bodies, has identified 2,326 planet candidates, of
which 35 are confirmed planets. Of 1,235 planet candidates NASA
announced last February, about 68 are Earth-sized and about 54
are in the habitable zone, which isn’t too hot or cold for life.
Five planets are both Earth-sized and in the habitable zone.  Far-Off Probe  While the Kepler craft is finding planets that move close
to their stars, astronomers are using a different method to
probe for planets that are further away.  According to a study published today in  Nature , astronomers
using a technique called microlensing determined that planets
that are distant from their stars are “at least as numerous as
the stars in the Milky Way.”  The study estimates that the every star in the Milky Way
galaxy has 1.6 planets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 