-- Europe Crisis Rescue Begins With MIT Men as a Matter of Trust
-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-01-12T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/rescuing-europe-from-debt-crisis-begins-with-men-of-mit-as-matter-of-trust.html
As financial turmoil in  Europe 
threatened to overwhelm the region’s banks last November, Bank
of England Governor Mervyn King arranged conference calls with
the world’s top central bankers to decide what steps to take.  The result: Six leading monetary authorities agreed to make
it  cheaper  for financial institutions outside the U.S. to borrow
dollars in emergencies. The funding squeeze on European banks
eased and stocks worldwide rallied.  The Nov. 30 plan could be created and announced quickly
because “we trust each other,” King told reporters the
following day in his role as chairman of the bankers’ group.  For some, that trust has a common source: three of the six
banks are led by economists who studied or taught at the
 Massachusetts  Institute of Technology in the late 1970s and
early 1980s. Then, as now, the emphasis was on what former MIT
professor and now Bank of Israel Governor Stanley Fischer
describes as “economics about the real world.”  The MIT central bankers represent “an extraordinary level
of policy influence for any one economics department,” said
James Poterba, president of the National Bureau of Economic
Research, which is responsible for dating the beginnings and
endings of U.S. recessions. “I’m trying to think about what was
in the water.” He was head of the economics department from
2006 to 2008 and is still a faculty member.  Adjoining Offices  At MIT, King, 63, and then-professor  Ben S. Bernanke , 58,
had adjoining offices in 1983, spending the early days of their
academic careers in an environment where economics was viewed as
a tool to set policy. Earlier, Bernanke and European Central
Bank President Mario Draghi, 64, earned their doctorates from
the university in the late 1970s, Draghi with a thesis entitled
“Essays on Economic Theory and Applications.”  Fischer, 68, advised Bernanke’s thesis on “Long-Term
Commitments, Dynamic Optimization and the Business Cycle,” and
taught Draghi. Greek Prime Minister and former ECB vice
president Lucas Papademos and Olivier Blanchard, now chief
economist for the  International Monetary Fund  in  Washington ,
earned their doctorates from MIT at about the same time.  Other monetary policy makers who have passed through MIT’s
doors include Athanasios Orphanides, head of the  Central Bank  of
Cyprus, Duvvuri Subbarao, governor of the  Reserve Bank  of India
and Charles Bean, King’s deputy in the U.K.  Central banking is filled with former attendees of the
Cambridge, Massachusetts,  university  not just because it was and
is one of the world’s top schools for economics.  Collegial Atmosphere  Its emphasis on solving policy problems instead of
perfecting theories, as well as a collegial atmosphere,
attracted students and professors alike. That was especially
true during the late 1970s and early 1980s, when global oil-
price shocks helped trigger both inflation and  recession .  “The faculty makes the place but the students also make
the place,” Fischer said in a telephone interview. “One of the
reasons you go to MIT is because you have the best students in
the world.” To him, economics was a tool to “do something
useful.”  “The goal was not to find beautiful theories, the goal was
to have a grasp of what was actually happening, and we taught it
that way,” said Robert Solow, a Nobel-prize winning economist
who started as an associate professor at MIT in 1950 and has
stayed there for his entire career. “We turned out students who
were actually interested in macroeconomic policy and
understanding daily events and not in showing off.”  Cutting Rates  Faced with the worst financial crisis since the Great
Depression, Bernanke, Draghi and King have shaken up the
standard toolbox of monetary policy.  All three have cut  interest rates  to record lows and pumped
extra liquidity into their economies. The U.S. and the  U.K. (UKAPTARG)  have
gone through at least two rounds of money-printing to buy
government debt. Draghi, who took over as ECB president from
France’s Jean Claude Trichet on Nov. 1, has so far resisted
starting a bond-purchase plan with newly created money.  Jose De Gregorio, who stepped down last month after four
years heading Chile’s central bank, took a class on the Great
Depression from Bernanke while the Fed chairman was a visiting
professor at MIT. De Gregorio said the emphasis at the
university was on trying to understand “real phenomena and how
the world works” rather than seeking to come up with elaborate
theories or better techniques.  The MIT economics department, along with counterparts at
other U.S. coastal universities including Harvard, also in
Cambridge, is considered a “saltwater” school: The professors
see a role for economic policy in providing discretionary aid
for the economy.  Samuelson vs Friedman  A standard-bearer for this approach was Paul Samuelson, the
first American to win a  Nobel  prize in economic sciences. He
joined MIT in 1940, earning a Ph.D. at  Harvard University , and
spent his career there until his death in 2009.  At “freshwater” schools such as the  University of Chicago 
and the University of Minnesota -- so-called because of their
relative proximity to the Great Lakes -- the approach favored by
the late Nobel laureate Milton Friedman is skeptical about the
part governments can and should play in the economy.  Robert Hall, a professor at Stanford University in
California who got his doctorate from MIT, coined the terms
“freshwater” and “saltwater” in a 1976  note  on
macroeconomics.  The MIT activists deployed their knowledge in the real
world as well. Samuelson was an adviser to President John F. Kennedy while Solow served as a senior economist on Kennedy’s
Council of Economic Advisers.  Policy Positions  Later, Lawrence Summers, who received a bachelor’s degree
in economics at MIT in 1975 and taught there in 1979 after
getting a doctorate from Harvard, was Treasury secretary for
President Bill Clinton from 1999 to 2001. He also led President
Barack Obama’s National Economic Council from 2008 to 2010.  Other alumni who have held policy positions include
 Christina Romer , who earned her Ph.D. at MIT in 1985 and was
head of Obama’s CEA, and Alan Blinder, a former vice chairman of
the Fed who received his doctorate from MIT in 1971.  Whether in class at the Alfred P. Sloan building on the
east end of campus or in informal study groups, relationships
between graduate students and faculty were cooperative because
professors “treated students as equals,” said the BOE’s Bean,
who was there from 1979 to 1981.  Oil Crisis  Students would meet on campus or in someone’s apartment
over sandwiches they’d bought at a local deli. More expensive
evenings took place in bars near Harvard Square. Their
discussions on economics took place as the U.S. responded to the
oil crisis with “Drive 55” billboards and to the Iranian
hostage crisis with pictures of the Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.  Rudiger Dornbusch, known for his work in defining modern
international economics and for his devotion to his students,
hosted “legendary” weekly breakfasts where his doctoral
candidates gave progress reports on their dissertations, said
Richard Schmalensee, professor of economics and management at
MIT. Dornbusch died of cancer in 2002.  The late Franco Modigliani, who won the Nobel prize in 1985
for his work on savings and financial markets, advised fellow
Italian Draghi’s doctoral thesis in 1976 and co-authored
scholarly articles with Greece’s Papademos. Both spoke at his
memorial service in 2003.  Solow was an “important part” of the collegial culture of
the economics department, according to Schmalensee. Solow
himself said he never would have guessed back then that Bernanke
would have ended up as chairman of the Fed. Nor did either
Bernanke or Draghi stand out as obvious candidates to lead major
central banks.  With Hair  “If you had known Ben Bernanke as a student you would have
never picked him as a future central banker,” said Solow, who
won the Nobel in 1987. “He had a lot of hair, and when I say a
lot of hair, I mean a lot of hair.”  As for Draghi, Solow said he remembers his smile -- and his
low-key demeanor. “No drama in Draghi,” the MIT professor
emeritus said, adding, “That’s a good trait for him to have”
as a central banker confronting a financial crisis.  The “MIT style,” according to Nobel laureate Paul Krugman,
who received a doctorate from the university in 1977 and who is
now a New York Times newspaper columnist, is the “use of small
models applied to real problems, blending real-world observation
and a little mathematics to cut through to the core of the
issue.” He was writing in an essay published on the MIT website.  The “saltwater” approach to economics instilled in
students a sense of “pragmatism and the willingness to be ad
hoc” about economic issues, said the BOE’s Bean, 58.  Mindset for Bankers  “It’s being willing to use economics flexibly to cope with
whatever the issue is at hand,” he said. “That’s the sort of
mindset that informs the Bernankes, the Draghis, the Stan
Fischers and Olivier Blanchards of the world.”  Bernanke, Draghi, Blanchard and King declined to comment
for this article or weren’t able to comment.  Their time at MIT was marked by a public debate between
Friedman and Samuelson over economic policy. In alternating
columns in Newsweek magazine, the two men set out their
competing visions: Friedman for a laissez-faire approach and
Samuelson advocating an active government role.  Their public spat obscured cross-pollination between the
two schools. After earning his doctorate at MIT in 1969, Fischer
spent three years as an assistant professor at the  University of
Chicago  before returning to Massachusetts in 1973.  Talking Together  The common approach from policy makers’ educational
backgrounds means that cooperation in times of crisis is more
likely since “they all talk the same language, the language of
economics,” said Forrest Capie, professor emeritus of economic
history at  Cass Business School  in  London  and author of “The
 Bank of England : 1950s to 1979.”  The institutional history at each central bank may
overshadow any influence from MIT on each leader’s approach to
the crisis, said Grant Lewis, head of research at Daiwa Capital
Markets Europe Ltd. in London.  The hyperinflation that  Germany  endured in the last century
has informed the ECB’s reluctance to plunge into so-called
quantitative easing, while the Fed and the BOE are more disposed
to pursue that unconventional policy, he said.  The Fed announced its $400 billion “Operation Twist” in
September to lower yields on longer-term treasuries by
rearranging the composition of its almost $3 trillion balance
sheet.  Policy Decisions  The BOE held its target for bond purchases at 275 billion
pounds ($421 billion) yesterday. The ECB, for its part, kept its
 key rate  at 1 percent as Draghi said the euro-area economy was
showing “signs of stabilization.”  At a Frankfurt press conference yesterday, Draghi called
on the region’s indebted nations to “do their utmost” to
control deficits. The bank’s unprecedented 489 billion euros
($627 billion) of three-year loans last month have prevented a
“serious” credit contraction, he said, adding that such
measures are “temporary in nature.”  Supporters of the freshwater school would say Draghi and
his global counterparts should do even less. Central banks’
decisions to intervene in government bond markets and pump
liquidity into the financial system have proven to be a policy
mistake, said  Brendan Brown , chief economist at Mitsubishi UFJ
Securities in London. He attended  Chicago  in the 1970s and last
year published “The Global Curse of The  Federal Reserve ,”
which criticized the Fed.  “Blanket intervention to depress market prices is the
wrong way to go about it,” he said. “The cost is what we’re
seeing: a slow sluggish recovery.”  MIT Message  “You’ve got a problem, you have to do something about it.
That is a message which they learned at MIT,” said Allan Meltzer,
a professor at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh,
 Pennsylvania , and author of a history of the Fed, in an
interview. “The danger is that you don’t think about the
longer-term consequences of what you’re doing.”  Draghi, for one, has long been aware of such risks. His
 doctoral thesis  discussed, among other subjects, “the tradeoff
between short-run stabilization policies and long-run plans”
and found that an excessive focus on near-term fixes could prove
counterproductive.  Jean-Pierre Roth, who stepped down as chairman of the Swiss
National Bank in December 2009, said the international nature of
economic issues supports the case for top central banking
officials to have doctorates in macroeconomics. Roth was a
visiting scholar at MIT from 1976-1977, attending in order to
study with Dornbusch.  Macro Framework  “What is so important for central bankers is to be able to
think globally, in a macro framework, and to understand the
interconnections between markets in a global and open economy,”
he said in an interview. “This is the kind of education you get
when you work a bit more than having a bachelor degree or MA in
economics. You need to work more than that.”  Bernanke’s academic work on the Great Depression may have
better prepared him for the challenges now facing the  U.S.
economy  and the Fed than if he had first spent a long stretch
working at a bank, Daiwa’s Lewis said.  “The fact that Bernanke’s such a student of the Great
Depression and  Japan ’s battles with deflation and low growth
arguably makes him the best qualified person to hold that job at
the moment,” he said. “It’s clear he saw deflation and
depression as a big threat and he understood that from his
studies. If he’d been a career banker, he’d never have studied
it in such depth.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rich Miller in Washington at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  