-- Retail Sales in U.S. Increase Less Than Forecast: Economy
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-12T21:30:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/retail-sales-in-u-s-rose-0-1-in-december-less-than-forecast.html
Sales (RSTAMOM)  at U.S. retailers rose less
than projected in December, confirming forecasts for a slowdown
in  consumer spending  at the start of 2012.  The 0.1 percent gain in purchases last month followed a 0.4
percent increase in November, according to figures from the
Commerce Department released today in Washington. The  median
estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey called for a 0.3 percent
rise. Another report showed more Americans than projected filed
claims for jobless benefits last week.  Merchants like  Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM)  cut prices during the
most important shopping season of the year amid concern stagnant
wages and lower property values would hold customers back. The
slowdown in demand means households are looking to rebuild
savings after spending jumped early in the fourth quarter,
showing further job gains are needed to fuel purchases.  “A lot of the euphoria around the  holiday shopping season 
was misplaced,” said Neil Dutta, an economist at Bank of
America Corp. in New York, which correctly forecast the gain in
sales. “The weakness in December implies that the handoff into
the first quarter was weak. The savings rate is going higher and
that’s going to be a headwind for consumer spending.”  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher
for a fourth day, as a drop in borrowing costs at debt auctions
in  Europe  helped overcome the disappointing economic data. The
 S&P 500  climbed 0.2 percent to close at 1,295.5 in New York.  Euro-Area Economy  Euro-area industrial production declined for a third month
in November, adding to signs the economy failed to grow in the
fourth quarter, a report showed today. Output in the 17-nation
euro area dropped 0.1 percent from a month earlier, the European
Union’s statistics office said in Luxembourg.  In  Asia ,  China ’s consumer inflation rate fell to a 15-month
low in December and producer-price gains were the smallest in
two years, leaving the government more room to support growth as
a global slowdown hurts exports.  Jobless  claims  in the U.S. climbed by 24,000 to 399,000 in
the week ended Jan. 7, Labor Department figures also showed
today. The  median  forecast of 46 economists in a Bloomberg
survey projected 375,000.  Hiring by package-delivery companies and retailers during
the holidays to meet demand for gifts may now be giving way to
an increase in dismissals. At the same time, claims figures are
subject to greater volatility during this time of year, as the
government has trouble adjusting the data for the seasonal
swings in employment.  Seasonal Firings  “There is usually a surge in seasonal layoffs at this
time, and that is what’s happening here,” said  Jonathan Basile ,
a senior economist at Credit Suisse in  New York , who projected
claims would jump to 405,000. “Claims have shown an improving
trend. It’s a vote of confidence for continued improvement in
the labor market.”  More jobs will be needed to support spending. Retail sales
were projected to accelerate after rising a previously reported
0.2 percent in November, according to the Bloomberg survey. The
75 economists’ estimates ranged from a decline of 0.2 percent to
a gain of 0.9 percent.  Shares of Williams-Sonoma fell the most in more than three
years after the owner of the namesake, Pottery Barn and West Elm
home-goods chains said profit may be less than previously
forecast because of holiday price-cutting.  Cutting Prices  Chief Executive Officer Laura Alber said Williams-Sonoma
faced “greater challenges” because of discounting on
nationally branded products. Sales at all stores open at least a
year fell 0.3 percent in the two-month holiday period ended Dec.
26, compared with a 5 percent gain a year earlier, the San
Francisco-based company said in a statement.  For all of 2011, retailers enjoyed their strongest sales
year since 1999. Purchases climbed 7.7 percent after a 6.5
percent gain in 2010, today’s Commerce Department report showed.  Seven of 13 major categories showed gains last month, led
by a 1.5 percent jump at  car dealerships . Purchases excluding
automobiles fell 0.2 percent, the first decline since May 2010.  The auto data ran counter to industry reports that showed
cars and light trucks  sold  at a 13.5 million seasonally adjusted
annualized rate in December following a 13.6 million pace the
prior month, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Nonetheless,
demand posted the best back-to-back months since May-June 2008.  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. carmaker, posted a
10 percent gain in sales last month from a year earlier, and
closed out 2011 with 2.15 million light vehicles purchased, an
11 percent gain.  ‘High Note’  “We were able to end the year on, what we feel, is a high
note,”  Erich Merkle , Ford’s U.S. sales analyst, said on a
conference call Jan. 4. “December was a strong number.”  Building-material outlets, furniture and clothing stores
were also among the gainers last month. Electronics stores last
month showed the biggest decline in sales since March 2009,
leading the categories showing loses. Declines also included
service stations, as gasoline prices dropped, and Internet
retailers.  Sales excluding autos, gasoline and building materials,
which render the figures used to calculate gross domestic
product, fell 0.2 percent after a 0.3 percent increase the prior
month and a 0.5 percent gain in October.  A plunge in same-store sales in the first week of 2012
raises the risk that the disappointing December results will
carry over into the new year.  January Plunge  Demand at stores open at least a year  dropped  5.4 percent
in the week ended Jan. 7 from the previous seven days, the
largest decline since records began in September 1989, according
to  International Council of Shopping Centers  and Goldman Sachs
Weekly Chain Store Sales Index released on Jan. 10.  The January data “give reason to be cautious about whether
what we saw in December is going to continue on to the first
quarter,” said  Michael Feroli , chief U.S. economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. in New York. “We have to wait a little longer to
see if December was an aberration or if there is a step down in
the pace of spending growth.”  In a note to clients today Feroli said JPMorgan is
preparing to revise its first-quarter growth forecast to reflect
the fact that “the weak finish” at the end of 2012 bodes
poorly for the start of the year.  Spending will climb at a 2 percent annual rate this quarter
after expanding at a 2.5 percent pace in the last three months
of 2011, according to the median forecasts of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg from Jan. 6 to Jan. 11.  Payroll Gain  The figures follow a report earlier this month that showed
improvement in the labor market may help sustain spending.
Employers added 200,000 jobs in December, twice as many as the
prior month, and the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.5 percent,
the lowest level in almost three years, Labor Department data
showed Jan. 6. Hours worked and earnings also picked up.  Other reports today showed that consumer sentiment climbed
last week to the highest level since July and companies added to
inventories at a slower pace in November.  The Bloomberg Consumer  Comfort Index (COMFCOMF)  was minus 44.7 in the
period ended Jan. 8 from minus 44.8 the prior week. It’s
increased in four of the past five weeks.  Stockpiles (MTIBCHNG)  at all companies climbed 0.3 percent after
rising 0.8 percent rise in October, the Commerce Department also
reported. The increase matched the gain in sales.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  