-- Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Increased as Job, Income Growth Picked Up
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-12T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-increased-on-holiday-discounts.html
Sales (RSTAMOM)  at U.S. retailers probably
rose in December as Americans bought discounted holiday items,
giving the economy a boost entering 2012, economists said before
a report today.  The projected 0.3 percent gain would follow a 0.2 percent
advance in November, according to the  median  forecast of 75
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. First-time jobless claims
were little changed last week, another report may show.  Retailers like  Macy’s Inc. (M)  spurred demand by cutting prices
and extending hours to ensure consumers, strapped by falling
 home prices  and stagnant wages, shopped for holiday gifts. A
report last week showed unemployment fell to an almost three-
year low and hiring accelerated, indicating an improving job
market will give workers the means to sustain spending.  “Holiday shopping was fairly healthy, with retailers
aggressively discounting items,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior
economist at BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. “The American
consumer can continue spending at a modest to moderate clip now
that employment growth is picking up and household finances are
in somewhat better shape.”  The Commerce Department will report the sales data at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from a decline
of 0.2 percent to a gain of 0.9 percent.  Employers added 200,000 jobs in December, twice as many as
the prior month, and the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.5
percent, the lowest level in almost three years, Labor
Department data showed Jan. 6. Hours worked and earnings also
picked up.  Jobless Claims  Initial jobless  claims rose to 375,000 last week from
372,000 the previous period, data from the Labor Department may
show at 8:30 a.m. The latest four-week average of claims is the
lowest in more than three years.  An improving labor market helped make for a brighter
 holiday shopping season . Same-store sales for the more than 20
companies tracked by Retail Metrics gained 3.6 percent in
December, topping the 3.3 percent average of estimates gathered
by the Swampscott, Massachusetts-based researcher. Macy’s, based
in Cincinnati, reported a 6.2 percent increase, topping the 4.6
percent estimate.  Americans also turned to the Internet for gift buying.
Online retail purchases rose to a record $37.2 billion in
November and December, a 15 percent increase from 2010, Reston,
Virginia-based, ComScore Inc. said in a statement Jan. 4.  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest online retailer, on
Dec. 15 said customers had bought about 1 million of its Kindle
e-book readers and tablets in each of the previous three weeks.
The Kindle Fire tablet, which sells for $199, had been the best-
selling product on Amazon.com since its introduction 11 weeks
earlier, the Seattle-based company said in a statement.  Favorable Weather  Favorable weather across the U.S. may have fueled December
sales of building materials, restaurant meals and general
merchandise, economists at Credit Suisse said in a research note
to clients. The average temperature in the contiguous 48 states
was 35 degrees Fahrenheit (1.7 degrees Celsius), the 34th
warmest December in 117 years, according to the National
Climatic Data Center’s  website .  Signs the economy was gathering momentum at the end of 2011
has propelled share prices. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index has
climbed 12 percent since a recent low on Nov. 25.  Meantime, auto purchases have improved. Car and light truck
sales in the U.S.  advanced  in December at a 13.5 million annual
rate after November’s 13.6 million, the best two months since
May-June 2008, according to researcher Autodata Corp. Sales
averaged 16.4 million in the two years before the recession
began in December 2007.  Ford Sales  Ford Motor Co. (F) , the second-largest U.S. carmaker, posted a
10 percent gain in sales last month from a year earlier, and
closed out 2011 with 2.15 million light vehicles purchased, an
11 percent gain.  “We were able to end the year on, what we feel, is a high
note,”  Erich Merkle , Ford’s U.S. sales analyst, said on a
conference call Jan. 4. “December was a strong number.”  Another report at 10 a.m. today from the Commerce
Department may show business  inventories  rose for a second
month. The projected 0.4 percent gain in November would follow a
0.8 percent increase the previous month, according to the median
estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  