-- Ripped Wahlberg Out to Sea as Inked Ribisi Menaces Wife: Film
-- B y   R i c k   W a r n e r
-- 2012-01-12T03:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/ripped-wahlberg-out-to-sea-as-inked-ribisi-menaces-beckinsale-rick-warner.html
Mark Wahlberg stars in
“ Contraband ” as Chris Farrady, a former smuggler who’s lured
back into the risky business to pay off his brother-in-law’s
debt to a ruthless drug boss.  The movie is a crime itself -- a sloppy, hackneyed remake
of the Icelandic thriller “Reykjavik-Rotterdam” that is far
below Wahlberg’s usual action standard.  One of its few virtues is Giovanni Ribisi’s over-the-top
performance as Tim Briggs, the manic, tattooed, glassy-eyed thug
who threatens Wahlberg and his family if the debt isn’t quickly
repaid.  Two other fine actors --  Ben Foster  as Chris’ turncoat
friend Sebastian and J.K. Simmons as a stern ship captain -- are
woefully underutilized, and Kate Beckinsale is nothing but
window dressing as Chris’ wife.  Wahlberg looks good in his muscle shirts and knows how to
deliver a deadpan one-liner, but he’s played similar roles with
more panache and energy.  In the original, alcohol is smuggled from Iceland to
Holland. The climes are warmer and the contraband dryer in the
remake, where Chris transports counterfeit money on a container
ship between  New Orleans  and Panama.  While Chris is away, Briggs terrorizes his wife and two
kids. Sebastian is supposed to be protecting them, but he ends
up doing more harm than good.  The obligatory crash scenes and fights are crudely shot,
and since much of the film takes place on the ship, we don’t get
to see much of the scenic Big Easy or  Panama .  Director Baltasar Kormakur, who starred in the original
film, does deserve credit for including the lively soundtrack
scored by Clinton Shorter, and music sung by Big Head Todd and
the Monsters featuring John Lee Hooker.  “Contraband,” from  Universal Pictures , opens tomorrow
across the U.S. Rating: **  (Rick Warner is the movie critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his
own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Rick Warner in  New York  at 
 rwarner1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 