-- Romney Slammed for Making Millions in PE
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-01-12T16:14:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/romney-slammed-for-making-millions-in-pe.html
It isn’t unusual for  Mitt Romney  to
be interrupted by hecklers at campaign stops. On the Sunday
before the  New Hampshire  primary, his rally in Exeter was
briefly held up when a group of Occupy  Wall Street  protesters
began chanting “Mitt kills  jobs !”  Romney always handles these outbursts the same way. He
affixes a rigid grin to his face, gamely notes everyone’s right
to free speech, and then leads the crowd in a cheer while police
hustle the protesters away. But the latest attacks on his
business background are nothing to grin about, because they’re
being launched by his fellow Republicans and backed by millions
of dollars in advertisements.  Even as Romney, a former governor of  Massachusetts , moved
closer to wrapping up the nomination by winning comfortably in
New Hampshire, they’ve threatened to damage his campaign and his
arguments against President  Barack Obama , Bloomberg Businessweek
reports in its Jan. 16 edition.  Newt Gingrich , whose support collapsed under sustained
attacks by a Romney-allied group, has emerged as the fiercest
critic. In New Hampshire, the former U.S. House speaker accused
Romney and Bain Capital LLC of “looting” the companies they
acquired.  ‘Vulture’ Capitalists  “Is capitalism really about the ability of a handful of
rich people to manipulate the lives of thousands of other people
and walk off with the money?” Gingrich demanded to know.  Sensing this could hurt the front-runner, other candidates
piled on. Texas Governor  Rick Perry  called Bain “vulture
capitalists.” Former Utah Governor Jon Huntsman Jr. said:
“Romney enjoys firing people. I enjoy creating jobs.”  The attacks on Romney’s private-equity career are harmful
in two ways. First, they validate the central charge that Obama
and Democrats plan to make against the likely Republican
nominee, lending the imprimatur of bipartisanship to what Romney
had hoped to dismiss as a left-wing disdain for capitalism.  A Romney spokeswoman sought to cast the charges as
“attacks on free enterprise.” But that’s a much tougher
argument to win when it has to be made against conservative
Republicans rather than liberal Democrats.  The attacks also hurt Romney by drawing a distinction
between the financial engineering of private equity firms such
as Bain and other forms of free enterprise -- the criticism
being that the former is unworthy of admiration.  Romney’s Business Credentials  Should such a belief take hold, it would badly undermine
the whole basis of Romney’s campaign: the idea that he alone
among the candidates possesses invaluable business expertise
that he would bring to bear in turning around the  U.S. economy .  That’s precisely the distinction Gingrich is trying to
make.  “There’s a real difference between entrepreneurial
capitalism that creates jobs,” Gingrich told Bloomberg
Television on Jan. 10, “and when you rig the game and leave
behind people who in effect have lost their future because you
got richer.”  The fact that these charges are suddenly dominating the
presidential contest guarantees they’ll have broad currency. And
that threatens more than just Romney’s electoral prospects.  It means the charges could color perceptions of the entire
buyout industry, a field little understood outside financial
circles. Already, the favorable treatment for private-equity
earnings -- the so-called carried-interest tax -- has become a
hot issue in  Washington .  Buffett’s Tax Argument  Many Democrats, encouraged by prominent figures such as
billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , argue the tax should be
brought into line with marginal rates. If large numbers of
Americans come to see private equity as exploitative, that
argument will gain force.  To blunt such negative perceptions, the Private Equity
Growth Capital Council, the industry’s lobbying group, plans to
launch a public relations campaign this month.  “There is a lot of misinformation being spread, purely for
political purposes and on both sides of the aisle,” Steve Judge, the group’s interim president and chief executive
officer, said in a statement. “While the business model has
evolved over time, the fact of the matter is private equity
provides capital and operational expertise to companies that are
often underperforming or on the brink of failure.”  Anti-Romney Video  While that’s a portrayal Romney would gladly embrace, his
rivals are likely to present the industry, and Romney’s enormous
success within it, in much less favorable terms.  On the day after the primary, a group supporting Gingrich
released a brutal 28-minute video depicting Romney as having
practiced a ruthless form of capitalism that bankrupts companies
and destroys families.  “Under Romney, Bain was making billions,” a narrator
ominously intones, “at the same time, contributing to the
greatest American job-loss since World War II.”  To drive this theme home, Gingrich’s campaign has purchased
$3.4 million of air time in  South Carolina  to run ads in advance
of the state’s Jan. 21 primary.  The anti-Romney video contends that  Bain Capital  is “worse
than Wall Street.”  In his New Hampshire victory speech, Romney made clear that
he was going to fight back.  “President Obama wants to put free enterprise on trial,”
he said. “In the last few days, we have seen some desperate
Republicans join forces with him.”  If those Republicans are as desperate as they appear to be,
their attacks could resonate long after they have exited the
field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Manchester, New Hampshire at 
 jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel in New York at 
 tyrangiel@bloomberg.net  