-- Romney Free-Enterprise ‘Trial’ Links Republicans to Obama
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-01-12T20:25:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/romney-s-free-enterprise-trial-aligns-his-republican-rivals-with-obama.html
Republican front-runner Mitt Romney,
who has cast the 2012 presidential campaign as “free enterprise
on trial,” finds himself in a struggle over the role of
capitalism in an unlikely place: within his own party.  As Romney attempts to frame a general election contest with
President  Barack Obama  on the economy, some of his rivals for
the Republican nomination have made many of the same arguments
against him that Democrats have.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  accused Romney of practicing
“vulture” capitalism during his days as a private equity
executive. A film bankrolled by supporters of former U.S. House
Speaker Newt Gingrich charges that Romney’s firm, Bain Capital
LLC, eliminated jobs and turned “the misfortune of others into
their own enormous financial gain.” These are complaints the
Obama campaign will be ready to reinforce during the campaign.  “We’ve understood for a long time that the Obama people
would come after free enterprise,” Romney told reporters aboard
his campaign plane yesterday during a flight to South Carolina,
site of a Jan. 21 primary. “Little surprised to see  Newt
Gingrich  as the first witness for the prosecution.”  With the  U.S. economy  the dominant concern of voters, Obama
heads into November’s election seeking to portray himself as a
champion of middle-income Americans who is confronting  Wall
Street  and Republican obstructionists in Congress. He signaled
his re-election message with a Dec. 6 address in Kansas, saying
the U.S. is at “a make-or-break moment for the middle class.”  Market-Oriented  Kent Hughes, director of the Program on America and the
Global Economy at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for
Scholars in Washington, dismissed Romney’s “free enterprise on
trial” argument against Obama as political hyperbole.  “I don’t really see free enterprise being put on trial by
any of the candidates, including President Obama,” he said. The
president “looks, as previous administrations have, for
business to play a leading role in everything from job-creation
to long-term productivity growth.”  Republican criticism of Romney’s business record could
prove damaging if it depresses enthusiasm for the party’s
eventual nominee among the white working class.  “Obama is never going to convince those white working-
class voters to stay home rather than vote for Romney,” said
 Dan Schnur , an adviser to Arizona Senator  John McCain ’s 2000
Republican presidential campaign. “Some of that rhetoric from
Gingrich and Perry can.”  Key to Victory  White working-class voters -- workers without college
degrees -- have become increasingly important in the Republican
electoral coalition, said Ruy Teixeira, a political demographer
and senior fellow at the Center for American Progress in
Washington.   A Republican nominee “literally can’t win without a very
large supermajority from the white working class,” he said. 
“It’s the key to their victory. The stakes couldn’t be higher.”  Republicans succeeded in the 2010 midterm congressional
elections by gaining a 30-percentage-point lead among white
working-class voters, Teixeira said. Obama won election in 2008
even with an 18-point gap among those voters because of support
from minority groups and college-educated whites.  Seizing the Moment  Romney seized his moment before a national television
audience on the night of his Jan. 10  New Hampshire  primary win
to define his differences with the Democratic president in terms
of fundamental economic principles, portraying Obama as a
practitioner of “the bitter politics of envy” who would “turn
America into a European-style entitlement society.”  “This president takes his inspiration from the capitals of
 Europe ,” Romney told his supporters.  He promised instead to “lead us down a different path,
where we are lifted up by our desire to succeed, not dragged
down by a resentment of success.”  For now, it is Romney’s Republican rivals who are stoking
resentment and providing recorded comments that Democrats could
turn against Romney should he become the party’s nominee.  Companies such as Romney’s Bain Capital “come in and loot
people’s jobs, loot their pensions, loot their ability to take
care of their families,” Perry said at a town hall meeting in
Fort Mill,  South Carolina , on Jan. 10. “They’re just vultures
sitting out there on the tree limb waiting for the company to
get sick. And then they swoop in, they eat the carcass, they
leave with that, and they leave the skeleton.”  Questioning Values  Gingrich, interviewed today on Fox News, challenged the
notion that criticism of Romney’s conduct at Bain amounted to an
attack on the free markets.  “We’re not talking about the system,” Gingrich said.
“We’re talking about somebody who is running for president of
the  United States . And we’re asking the question about his
judgment, his values, the choices he made.”  Gingrich said there are “a series of cases that don’t look
right,” mentioning companies that went bankrupt after Bain
invested in them.  “How come the big boys made a lot of money and they went
broke?” he asked. “That’s not an attack on capitalism.”  Tom Donohue , president and chief executive officer of the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, said at a news conference today in
 Washington  that he’s troubled by the attacks on Romney.  “I’m disappointed with the intramural carrying on,
attacking one of the candidates who has an extraordinary -- who
formed a great firm and had a pretty good track record,” he
said. “This economy is about risk. If you don’t take a risk,
you cannot have a success. It’s foolish for Republicans to carry
on that line of attack because they do nothing but set up the
ads for their opponents.”  Hard Times  With the move to  South Carolina (BEESSC) , the Republican
presidential race is shifting to an electorate that has faced
more difficult economic times than many other states.  The November  unemployment rate  in  Iowa , the site of the
Jan. 3 nominating caucuses, was 5.7 percent. In New Hampshire,
which hosted the first primary election, it was 5.2 percent.  By contrast, the jobless rate in South Carolina was 9.9
percent in November, the most recent month for which state-level
figures are available. In the states that host the next
nominating contests, unemployment in  Nevada  is 13 percent and in
 Florida  it is 10 percent.  Nationally, the unemployment rate for December was  8.5
percent , the lowest since February 2009. The Labor Department
said on Jan. 6 that 200,000 jobs were added in the U.S. in
December.  Free Markets, Capitalism  David Woodard, a Republican political consultant and
director of the Palmetto Poll at Clemson University in South
Carolina, said the attack on Romney runs counter to the
ideological outlook of voters in the state.  The South Carolina electorate, particularly in Republican
primaries, “really embraces free markets and capitalism,”
Woodard said.  The primary-season attack on Romney’s record in business
could work to his advantage in a general election campaign if it
allows his campaign to perfect a response, Schnur said.  “If they come up with a very effective answer, this is a
blessing -- if they don’t, it’s going to hurt even more,” said
Schnur, now director of the Unruh Institute of Politics at the
University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles .  Romney’s response based on free-market principles “is a
little bit abstract” for voters in the November general
election, Schnur said. “You’ve got argue it in terms of jobs.”  Facing a Test  Carter Eskew, a strategist for Democrat Al Gore’s 2000
presidential campaign and now a managing director at the Glover
Park Group in Washington, said Obama’s allies were likely to
reprise the attacks on Bain if Romney becomes the nominee.  “My guess is the Obama campaign has already filmed a lot
of people who will talk about how Romney’s business enterprises
resulted in their being fired,” Eskew said.  Former White House Press Secretary  Robert Gibbs  said Romney
is holding up his business experience at Bain as “his unique
qualification” for the presidency.  “If this is the first credential you’re using, it’s going
to be something people are going to test and push and pull on,”
said Gibbs, who provides informal advice to Obama’s re-election
campaign. “That’s going to be true the first day of your
campaign and the last day of your campaign.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in Washington at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  