-- Gingrich Questions Wall Street Bailout as Florida Gets Attention
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-01-13T22:41:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/romney-seeks-to-bolster-sense-of-inevitability-in-south-carolina.html
Newt Gingrich  urged a political
action committee that backs his bid for the Republican
presidential nomination to fix any inaccuracies in a film it
financed that attacks  Mitt Romney ’s role as a private-equity
executive at Boston-based Bain Capital LLC.  “I’m calling on them to either edit out every single
mistake or to pull the entire film, but to not run the film if
it has errors in it,” Gingrich said today as he campaigned in
Orlando, Florida.  Romney is depicted as “more ruthless than Wall Street” in
the 30-minute film paid for by Winning Our Future, the super-PAC
supporting Gingrich that operates independently of his campaign.
A Bloomberg News review of the film, which is running on a
website, found it lacks a complete picture of Bain’s record and
takes some matters out of context.  The pro-Gingrich committee has run only a 30-second ad in
South Carolina that excerpts the film, according to New York-
based Kantar Media’s CMAG, a company that tracks advertising.
Winning Our Future didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment on Gingrich’s remarks.  The former U.S. House speaker has been reframing his
assault on Romney’s business background amid calls from
Republican commentators, rivals in the presidential race and
business leaders to tone down his attacks. Gingrich has been the
most aggressive of the Republican candidates in questioning
Romney’s work at Bain, which the former Massachusetts governor
co-founded in 1984.  Romney’s Defense  Romney today defended his business record while campaigning
in South Carolina. “I want to get jobs for American people,”
he said. “I’m concerned about the vast middle class of our
nation.”  He campaign also began airing an  ad  in the state that says
he “helped create and ran a company that invested in struggling
businesses, grew new ones and rebuilt old ones, creating
thousands of jobs.” It also scolds unnamed Republican opponents
for joining President  Barack Obama ’s administration in putting
“free markets on trial.”  The ad cites  Staples Inc . and Sports Authority Inc. as two
of the companies in which Bain invested during Romney’s tenure
at the company.  Military Voters  Courting the state’s concentration of military voters,
Romney today also announced high-profile veterans’ endorsements
and pledged to protect spending on defense and care for veterans
and active service members. He asked those in the crowd with
military service to raise their hands, and told each as he
surveyed his audience, “Thank you. Thank you for your service.
Thank you sir.”  Obama is “willing to preside over a shrinking military,”
Romney told the crowd of several hundred gathered at a gymnasium
at the University of South Carolina’s Aiken campus. “I will
make sure America’s military is superior” to any in the world,
he said.  Continuing to focus his campaign on Obama and not his
rivals for the Republican nomination, Romney said he would
balance the U.S. budget, protect free enterprise and end the law
mandating health insurance coverage. He said Obama is turning
the nation into a “European-style social welfare state.”  Gingrich, criticized within his party over his anti-Bain
comments, said yesterday he wants to make a larger critique of
Wall Street bailouts.  “We the taxpayers deserve some kind of accounting for
where all those billions and billions of dollars went,” he said
at a campaign event in Columbia, South Carolina.  Providing Proof  At a stop today in Miami, Gingrich returned to Bain,
calling on Romney to release records that prove he created
100,000 jobs while at the company.  “The idea that some candidate can make a claim and then
yell foul the minute you ask him to prove it is just silly,”
Gingrich said. “I mean, if he can’t stand up today and defend
his claim, how is he going to stand up” to Obama in the general
election.  Gingrich also rolled out an Internet ad that mocks Romney
for speaking French, comparing him to another Massachusetts
politician, Senator  John Kerry , the 2004 Democratic presidential
nominee.  Looking to Florida  Romney and Gingrich are looking beyond South Carolina’s
Jan. 21 primary by spending time this week in Florida, site of a
Jan. 31 contest.  Romney campaigned in Florida yesterday and Gingrich made a
stop today at a restaurant in Miami’s Little Havana
neighborhood. He used the eatery, a traditional political
meeting spot for Miami’s Cuban community, to unroll his policy
toward Cuba, which includes re-establishing the 2004 travel
restrictions to that country and pledging to keep sanctions in
place until the Cuban dictatorship becomes a democracy.  Gingrich challenged suggestions that Romney is better
prepared to win Florida, where Romney is airing television ads,
including one in Spanish.  He said that in the 2008 Republican presidential race,
Romney outspent Senator  John McCain  of Arizona “10-1 in Florida
and lost because after they got done with all the ads he was
still Romney.”  Gingrich added: “We will surge very rapidly in Florida.”  Path to Victory  Wins by Romney in South Carolina and Florida, after his
victories in this month’s opening contests in Iowa and New
Hampshire, would put him on a path to quickly wrap up the
Republican nomination.  Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of Pennsylvania sought to
draw a distinction between himself and Romney without targeting
Bain at a forum today in Rock Hill, South Carolina.  “While he was a successful businessman, he is a
Massachusetts moderate-to-liberal governor who has changed his
opinion on just about every issue that’s out there,” Santorum
said. “I don’t criticize, and I won’t criticize, his work at
Bain Capital. I believe in capitalism. I believe in free
enterprise, and private-equity firms are very important and a
vital part of the free market system in this country. But that
doesn’t necessarily mean you want your boss running for
president.”  ‘Authentic’ Conservative  Later in the day, Santorum pitched his values to a
gathering of about 40 at Popes’ The White House, a roadside
diner in York, in South Carolina’s upstate region.  He said voters will choose him once they “take a look at
who is the authentic, sincere, conviction conservative.”  A political committee promoting Romney’s campaign while
operating independently of it began airing an ad today in South
Carolina that attacks Santorum’s vote for a 2005 transportation
bill that included funding for the so-called “bridge to
nowhere,” a proposed project in Alaska that was later canceled.
The bill passed the House by 412-8 and the Senate by 91-4,
though the bridge became a rallying call for opponents of such
spending, known as earmarks.  The ad marked the first time the pro-Romney group, Restore
our Future, attacked Santorum.  Gingrich changed his tone on Bain yesterday after having
questioned whether its acquisitions were akin to “looting a
company,” language that triggered the growing chorus of
Republicans and business leaders deploring his attacks.  ‘Disappointed’  “I’m disappointed with the intramural carrying on,”  Tom Donohue , president and chief executive officer of the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, told a news conference yesterday in
Washington. “This economy is about risk. If you don’t take a
risk, you cannot have a success. It’s foolish for Republicans to
carry on that line of attack because they do nothing but set up
the ads for their opponents.”  McCain, the 2008 Republican presidential nominee who has
endorsed Romney, denounced Gingrich for his remarks in a Fox
News interview yesterday.  “To go after him on what is really the essence of what we
Republicans believe in about the economy I think is a serious
mistake,” McCain said. “It’s the last resort of a very
desperate campaign.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John McCormick in Columbia, South Carolina, at   jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
 Margaret Talev  in Aiken, South Carolina at 
Or  mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  