-- Russia Says West Planning No-Fly Zone in Syria to Protect Rebels
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-01-12T08:12:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/russia-says-west-planning-no-fly-zone-in-syria-to-protect-rebels.html
Russia  received information that
members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and some
Persian Gulf countries are preparing military intervention in
Syria, the head of the Russian Security Council said.  Turkey , a NATO member, may play a key role, Nikolai Patrushev, who is also a former director of the Federal Security
Service,  told  Interfax in comments confirmed by his office. The
U.S. and Turkey are working on the possibility of creating a no-
fly zone to protect Syrian rebels, Patrushev said.  “We are receiving information that NATO members and some
Persian Gulf states, working under the ‘Libyan scenario’, intend
to move from indirect intervention in Syria to direct military
intervention,” the Russian security chief said.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday that
the Arab League monitoring mission in Syria should end after
failing to deter the government’s 10-month campaign of violence
against dissidents. She spoke after meeting Qatari Foreign
Minister, Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabor al Thani, a day
after President Barack Obama held talks with Saudi Foreign
Minister Saud al-Faisal at the White House.  Russia, which has Soviet-era ties with Syria, argues that
the UN-sanctioned bombing of  Libya  by the NATO was used to bring
about regime change and that Western governments are trying to
repeat that scenario in Syria.  The West is putting pressure on Syria because the country
refuses to break off its alliance with  Iran  rather than for
repressing the opposition, said Patrushev, who served with Prime
Minister Vladimir Putin in the Soviet-era KGB.  Turkish Involvement?  “This time, it won’t be  France , the U.K. and Italy that
will provide the main strike forces, but perhaps neighboring
Turkey, which was until recently on good terms with Syria and is
a rival of Iran with immense ambitions,” Patrushev said.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad rejected calls for his
resignation on Jan. 10, accusing “foreign conspiracies” of
aiming to divide his country. Unrest in Syria since March 2011
has claimed more than 5,000 lives, according to the  United
Nations .  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27.
Russia and  China  have blocked efforts by the U.S. and the
European Union for the UN Security Council to condemn the
crackdown.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  