-- Russia Says NATO, Persian Gulf Nations Plan to Seek No-Fly Zone for Syria
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-01-12T11:01:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/russia-says-nato-persian-gulf-nations-plan-to-seek-no-fly-zone-for-syria.html
Russia  received information that
members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and some
Persian Gulf countries are preparing military intervention in
 Syria , the head of the Russian Security Council said.  Turkey , a NATO member, may play a key role, Nikolai Patrushev, who used to head the country’s intelligence agency,
the Federal Security Service,  told  Interfax in comments
confirmed by his office. The U.S. and Turkey are working on a
possible no-fly zone to protect Syrian rebels, Patrushev said.  “We are receiving information that NATO members and some
Persian Gulf states, working under the ‘Libyan scenario’, intend
to move from indirect intervention in Syria to direct military
intervention,” the Russian security chief said.  U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said yesterday that
the  Arab League  monitoring mission in Syria should end after
failing to deter the government’s 10-month campaign of violence
against dissidents. She spoke after meeting Qatari Foreign
Minister, Sheikh Hamad bin Jassim bin Jabor al Thani, a day
after President  Barack Obama  held talks with Saudi Foreign
Minister Saud al-Faisal at the White House.  Turkey’s Foreign Ministry and NATO’s press service in
Brussels didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment.  Russia, which has Soviet-era ties with Syria, argues that
United Nations-sanctioned bombing of Libya by NATO to protect
civilians was used to bring about regime change and that Western
governments are trying to repeat that scenario in Syria.  Iranian Alliance  The West is putting pressure on Syria because the country
refuses to break off its alliance with  Iran  and not for
repressing the opposition, said Patrushev, who served with Prime
Minister Vladimir Putin in the Soviet-era KGB.  “This time, it won’t be  France , the U.K. and  Italy  that
will provide the main strike forces, but perhaps neighboring
Turkey, which was until recently on good terms with Syria and is
a rival of Iran with immense ambitions,” Patrushev said.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad rejected calls for his
resignation on Jan. 10, accusing “foreign conspiracies” of
aiming to divide his country. Unrest in Syria since March 2011
has claimed more than 5,000 lives, according to the  United
Nations .  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27.
Russia and  China  have blocked efforts by the U.S. and the
European Union for the UN  Security Council  to condemn the
crackdown.  Russia, which has a naval base in Syria and sells weapons
to the Middle Eastern country, is more concerned that Islamic
radicals may come to power, said Irina Zvyagelskaya, a Middle
East analyst at the Academy of Sciences in Moscow.  Russian Fear  “Our fear is that Syria could collapse and extremist
Islamic forces will seize control that no one will be pleased
about,” Zvyagelskaya said in a phone interview today. “This
could destabilize the entire region.”  While Russia would block any effort to seek UN approval for
a no-fly zone in Syria thanks to its veto-wielding power as a
permanent member of the Security Council, Western nations and
their allies may form a coalition like they did for the U.S.-led
invasion of  Iraq  in 2003, said the analyst.  “There are scenarios which different countries are looking
at,” Zvyagelskaya said. “We have seen before what a no-fly
zone means, it will be used to overthrow the regime.”  No-Fly Zone  Defectors from Assad’s army who have set up an opposition
force called the Free Syrian Army called at the end of last year
for a no-fly zone and two buffer areas with international
backing as they seek to topple the Syrian government.  The group wants a buffer zone in the north, on the Turkish-
Syrian border, and another in the south near the border with
Jordan to help them bring the fight closer to Assad, Riad al
As’ad, a former Syrian colonel who leads the Free Syrian Army,
said in a phone interview from Turkey on Nov. 18.  Russia may have obtained intelligence about Western
military plans in Syria or may be sending a signal that it will
actively oppose any such efforts, said  Fyodor Lukyanov , an
analyst at the Council on Foreign and Defense Policy in Moscow.  “After the Libyan experience, Russia will do everything to
stop this scenario from happening,” he said in a phone
interview. “Syria is much more important than  Libya  from
Russia’s point of view.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  