-- Trustmark Increases for Health Plans ‘Unreasonable,’ U.S. Regulator Says
-- B y   A l e x   W a y n e
-- 2012-01-12T21:28:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/trustmark-increases-for-health-plans-unreasonable-u-s-regulator-says.html
Trustmark Life Insurance Co. raised
premiums for about 10,000 people covered by health plans in five
states at an “unreasonable” rate, the Obama administration
said.  The closely held company increased the price for plans in
 Pennsylvania ,  Arizona , Alabama,  Virginia  and Wyoming by at least
13 percent, the Department of Health and Human Services said in
a  statement  today.  Insurers are required by the 2010 health-care overhaul to
explain rate increases exceeding 10 percent to state and federal
regulators. Lake Forest, Illinois-based Trustmark’s new prices
will result in the company spending a low percentage of premium
revenue on customer care and quality improvements, the
government said.  “It’s time for Trustmark to immediately rescind the rates,
issue refunds to consumers or publicly explain their refusal to
do so,” HHS Secretary  Kathleen Sebelius  said in a statement.  Trustmark’s premiums are driven by the rising cost and
increased use of medical services, the company said in a
statement.  “As a smaller carrier, our loss ratios can vary
significantly from year-to-year, and we take that volatility
into consideration,” the company said in the statement.  Singled Out  Singling out Trustmark for criticism is “foolishness,”
said Robert Laszewski, a consultant in Alexandria, Va. with 20
years’ experience in the  insurance industry .  The small-business markets in which the company sells plans
are competitive, he said, and firms buying coverage almost
always use brokers to shop among insurers. Trustmark serves as a
counterbalance to large insurers such as  UnitedHealthGroup Inc. (UNH) 
and  WellPoint Inc. (WLP) , Laszewski said.  “If they want to knock the Trustmarks out of the business,
this is the way to do it,” he said in a phone interview. “What
they’ll be left with is an oligopoly. The big guys will be the
only ones left and then you won’t have competition.”  The company is not a client, he said.  State and federal regulators can’t force the insurer to
drop the higher premiums.  In November, Sebelius called on a Pennsylvania insurer,
Everence Insurance Co. of Goshen, to rescind an average 12
percent increase the government called unreasonable. Everence
declined, saying it disagreed with the U.S. finding. The new
rates took effect on Oct. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Wayne in Washington at 
 awayne3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  