-- Saba’s Weinstein Favors Italian Government Bonds Over Nation’s Bank Debt
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e   a n d   S h a n n o n   D .   H a r r i n g t o n
-- 2012-01-12T12:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/saba-s-weinstein-favors-italian-government-bonds-over-nation-s-bank-debt.html
Boaz Weinstein , who runs Saba
Capital Management LP, said the debt of Italian banks is
overpriced relative to the country’s bonds as European leaders
seek to prevent the region’s debt crisis from spiraling out of
control.  “The bank debt, even though it’s much riskier than the
sovereign debt, is trading at pretty much the same level,”
Weinstein, who founded the New York-based hedge fund in 2009 and
now manages $5 billion, said in an interview aired today on
Bloomberg Television. “If you look at history, you won’t find
too many examples where a country defaulted and its banks were
OK, especially banks that have a lot of exposure to the
sovereign.”  Weinstein, 38, whose so-called long/short credit fund
typically avoids large bets on the direction of an economy and
profits from pricing dislocations between securities, said at a
conference last month that he was buying Italian  bonds  while
betting against the banks. He said at the time that he was
finding examples where some of the nation’s bank bonds were
yielding less than its sovereign debt.  Five-year credit-default swaps on Italian lender  Intesa
Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  traded yesterday at about 489 basis points, about
27 basis points lower than contracts protecting against a
default by the government, according to data provider CMA. Swaps
on Milan-based  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , the nation’s biggest bank, traded
at 521 basis points.  Selling Shares  UniCredit shares have plunged  40 percent  since the end of
December after it priced a 7.5 billion-euro ($9.5 billion)
rights offer at a discount and fueled concern that the region’s
banks will struggle to raise funds in equity markets.  The company decided to sell new shares after the European
Banking Authority gave the region’s lenders until June 30 to
raise 115 billion euros to increase core Tier 1 capital to 9
percent as a buffer against a continued plunge in sovereign-debt
prices. Those that fail to raise enough capital on their own
will have to turn to their governments, or, as a last resort,
the European Financial Stability Facility.  “If a bank has to offer a 43 percent discount to get
investors to potentially care on buying new shares, after the
stock had already dropped 70 percent for the year, it suggests
that the banks are going to have a very tough time meeting the
capital-raising needs that have been set out for them,”
Weinstein said in the Bloomberg Television interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Ruhle in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net ;
Shannon D. Harrington in New York at 
 sharrington6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  