-- Samsung Wins QatarGas Contract for Diesel Hydrotreater
-- B y   R o b e r t   T u t t l e
-- 2012-01-12T16:56:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/samsung-wins-qatar-contract-for-diesel-hydrotreater-at-refinery.html
Samsung Engineering Co. (028050)  won a
contract to build a 350 million riyal ($96 million) diesel
hydrotreater at the Laffan refinery in Qatar.  The 54,000 barrel-a-day unit will produce diesel with a
sulfur content of less than 10 parts per million, Qatar
Liquefied Gas Co., or QatarGas, said in an e-mailed statement.
The refinery, which opened in 2009, currently produces higher-
sulfur diesel.  “The surplus production will be exported, making it the
latest addition to the state of Qatar’s existing export
portfolio in the energy sector,” Qatar’s Energy Minister
Mohammed Bin Saleh Al-Sada said in the statement. The
hydrotreater is scheduled to start operating by the first
quarter of 2014, he said.  Qatar, the world’s biggest exporter of liquefied natural
gas, seeks to diversify its exports by using the world’s third-
largest gas reserves to produce aluminum, petrochemical and
refined fuels.  The Laffan refinery, which is operated by QatarGas,
processes as much as 146,000 barrels a day of condensate, or
light crude, derived from gas production into fuels such as
naphtha and jet fuel.  QatarGas signed a contract with  Technip SA (TEC)  last year to
design a second condensate refinery next to the first with a
construction contract to be awarded in the third quarter.  The new hydrotreater will operate at half its capacity
until the second refinery is operational, QatarGas said in
today’s release. When the existing refinery’s kerosene
hydrotreater is shut for maintenance, the new unit will be used
to process the fuel, the company said.  The unit is being developed by the Laffan Refinery Co., a
venture between companies including state-run Qatar Petroleum
and Total SA.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Robert Tuttle  in Doha at 
 rtuttle@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  