-- HSBC Seeks to Keep Hong Kong IPO Perch Buoyed by Consumer Deals
-- B y   F o x   H u
-- 2012-01-12T02:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/hsbc-seeks-to-keep-hong-kong-ipo-perch-buoyed-by-consumer-deals.html
HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  aims to remain
among the top five underwriters of initial public offerings in
Hong Kong this year by drawing on banking relationships that
helped the lender reach its highest ranking since 1999.  The bank, which has been doing business in Hong Kong since
1865, jumped to second place among IPO advisers in the city last 
year from No. 18 in 2010, according to data compiled by 
Bloomberg.  HSBC drew on ties with companies including Chow Tai Fook
Jewellery Group Ltd. to vault past Morgan Stanley and UBS AG in
Hong Kong’s IPO market. First-time stock sales by consumer
companies jumped to a record $11 billion last year, benefitting
the London-based bank, which worked on three of the four largest
consumer IPOs of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “We focused on consumer retail as it’s a sector ripe for
growth and investors love it,” said Alexis Adamczyk, co-head of
 Asia  Equity Capital Markets at HSBC. “When we pitch for deals,
we offer a one-stop shop covering advisory, financing,
commercial banking, global markets and retail banking.”  HSBC’s share of Hong Kong’s IPO market reached 7.7 percent
last year, behind  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s 9.9 percent,
Bloomberg data show.  China  International Capital Corp. ranked
third with 6.1 percent. The last time HSBC beat Goldman Sachs in
Hong Kong IPOs was in 2005.  Chow Tai Fook (1929) , the world’s biggest publicly traded jeweler,
joined Italian fashion house Prada SpA and luggage maker
Samsonite International SA in going public in Hong Kong last
year as investors sought ways to profit from rising consumer
spending in China. HSBC advised on Samsonite’s $1.3 billion IPO,
and on that of Sun Art Retail Group Ltd., China’s largest
hypermarket operator.  ‘Ups and Downs’  HSBC’s ascent in the league table last year coincided with
a 60 percent contraction in Hong Kong’s IPO market, as a
slowdown in  China’s economy  dragged down share prices. IPOs may
fail to pick up this year as  Europe ’s credit crisis persists,
said David Paine, HSBC’s head of equity syndication for Asia.  “There may be small windows and a lot of ups and downs,”
Paine said. “We may have to be opportunistic on timing.”  HSBC is among banks advising Graff Diamonds Ltd. on an
initial share sale of about $1 billion scheduled for this year,
according to people with knowledge of the deal.  Consumer companies, which accounted for half of the value
of IPOs in Hong Kong last year, were also key to Goldman Sachs’s
success, as the New York-based firm advised on five such
offerings, including that of  Prada (1913) , which raised $2.5 billion.
HSBC did not have a role on Prada’s sale.  Tycoon IPOs  Long-term corporate ties at HSBC’s commercial bank helped
it win IPO work, said Tom Lanners, who is co-head of  equity
capital markets  in Asia with Adamczyk. Chow Tai Fook is owned by
billionaire Cheng Yu-tung, who is also chairman of real-estate
developer New World Development Co.  “In Hong Kong, a long-term relationship is definitely very
important,” said Lanners. “It’s not enough to win business but
it’s helpful.”  HSBC managed the IPOs of New World China Land Ltd. in 1999
and New World Department Store China Ltd. in 2007. It was also
the only Western bank to work on the $1.6 billion yuan-
denominated listing of  Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust (87001) ,
controlled by billionaire  Li Ka-Shing ’s  Cheung Kong  (Holdings)
Ltd. Relationships with New World and Cheung Kong helped HSBC
secure deals, Lanners said.  Still, “the Samsonite deal shows we do not just rely on
our long-standing position and relationships in  Hong Kong ,”
Adamczyk said. “We competed in a tough selection process and
beat some other western banks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fox Hu in Hong Kong at 
 fhu7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  