-- Scene Last Night: J. Michael Evans, Hank Paulson, Miranda’s Rap
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n   a n d   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-01-12T16:51:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/scene-last-night-j-michael-evans-hank-paulson-miranda-s-rap.html
J.  Michael Evans , a vice chairman of
 Goldman Sachs Group (GS)  Inc., took the spotlight as a dinner-
leadership chairman at the  Asia Society (80070MF)  gala last night.  Evans joined the organization’s board last year, after
returning to New York from a seven-year stint in  Asia .  His first official duty: introducing a former chairman of
both the Asia Society and Goldman Sachs, John Whitehead, as the
recipient of the Asia Society Award “in honor and celebration
of his 90th birthday,” according to the program.  Evans told a well-worn anecdote about Whitehead offering a
ride to  Henry Ford  in his Chevy. He also said he hopes to have
half the energy Whitehead has now at the age of 89.  “My wife says that’s impossible because I don’t have that
much energy now,” Evans, 54, said.  Whitehead’s observation for Evans: “I’ve found it’s much
easier to advance in rank at a nonprofit organization than at a
for-profit organization,” he said.  Also present at the event: one of Whitehead’s successors as
chief of Goldman Sachs,  Hank Paulson , Goldman veterans Robert N. Downey, Don Gant and Fred Weintz, and Lulu Wang, chairman and
chief executive of Tupelo Capital Management LLC.  The menu was skewered prawns, sesame-crusted tuna and a
mixed berry mousse bar. The parting gift: a travel set of
chopsticks.  Hamilton Rap  George Washington  appealed to  Alexander Hamilton  for help
against British forces last night -- in rap and hip-hop.  “I was down,” sang Christopher Jackson in the Allen Room
at Jazz at Lincoln Center, his brawny physique suited to the
role of an ambitious Revolutionary War general. “I was out-
manned/Out-numbered, out-planned/We gotta make an all-out
stand/I’m gonna need a right-hand man.”  The historical story-song was part of Lin-Manuel Miranda’s
one-night engagement in the “American Songbook” series at
 Lincoln Center .  Miranda, composer, lyricist and star of Broadway’s “In the
Heights,” played a street-wise Hamilton. A sample: “I’m just
like my country/I’m young, scrappy and hungry/I’m not givin’ up
my shot.”  Miranda would like to eventually turn his Alexander
Hamilton songs into a musical. “When you write hip-hop for the
theater, it’s your job to make sure every lyric is heard in real
time,” Miranda said in a dressing room after the show. “The
hip-hop I love is dense.”  Not every song falls into that vernacular. As King George
III, Gavin Creel, in a paper Burger King crown, sang ballads
with a dainty English accent.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 