-- Scottish Companies Pressure Salmond on Independence Details
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-01-12T12:52:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/scottish-companies-pressure-salmond-to-detail-independence-plan.html
Scotland ’s nationalist government is
facing demands from companies to spell out policies for
independence as the U.K. presses for an early vote on whether
the country should break with the 305-year-old union.  CBI Scotland , the biggest business lobby group, and
 Scottish Financial Enterprise  say First Minister Alex Salmond
needs to specify whether an independent Scotland would keep
using the pound or switch to the euro. Also they want to know
what his  Scottish National Party ’s policies are on issues such
as taxation, employment laws and debt to help voters decide.  The U.K. government is at odds with Salmond, who won last
May’s election promising a referendum, over the timing of that
vote, the questions it should ask, who should be allowed to vote
and who should organize it. Salmond said yesterday he plans to
hold the plebiscite in the second half of 2014, while Prime
Minister  David Cameron  wants it held earlier.  “We hope the two governments will work together
collegiately to make sure any referendum is held on a legal
basis and provides the certainty our members want,” David
Lonsdale, assistant director of Glasgow-based CBI Scotland, said
in an interview. “We want it sooner rather than later.”  Salmond plans to publish a consultation paper on the
referendum process in two weeks, he told Scottish lawmakers
today. “We will listen and won’t prejudge what people have to
say,” he said in the parliament in Edinburgh.  RBS Debt  As  Europe  struggles with a debt crisis, early discussions
also are needed on how much U.K. borrowing Scotland would have
to take on, former Chancellor of the Exchequer  Alistair Darling 
told the British Broadcasting Corp. yesterday.  Talks about sharing the U.K. debt and the liabilities of
bailed out lender Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in the event
of independence will also need to happen, Cameron’s spokesman,
Steve Field, told reporters in London today.  “There are a number of issues that will need to be
discussed in the coming weeks and months about what independence
looks like,” Field told reporters in London today. “One of
those is how we divvy up the national debt; RBS is another of
those issues,” he said.  Field was responding to comments by Salmond on Channel 4
television last night that the responsibility for RBS’s near-
collapse lies with the U.K. Treasury and the Financial Services
Authority, so the U.K. government should remain liable.  Scotland v.  England   Salmond, 57, won an overall majority in last May’s
election, promising a referendum on Scotland’s future in the
second half of the five-year parliament.  “The last thing Scotland needs is this posed as an SNP
government in Edinburgh up against a Tory government in
 London ,” Darling, a Scot who represents a U.K. parliamentary
district in Edinburgh for the opposition  Labour Party , told BBC
Radio. “That is where Salmond wants us to be. If you play
Scotland against England, that plays to his advantage.”  The SNP-led administration in Edinburgh has control over
such issues as education, health, transport and justice since
the re-establishment of the Scottish Parliament in 1999 for the
first time following the Act of Union with England in 1707. The
U.K. Parliament reserves power over defense, welfare, economic
policy and constitutional changes.  Salmond said he will retain the monarchy and plans to be a
 full member of the European Union .  North Sea Oil  The economy, which makes up about 8 percent of the U.K.’s,
would be underpinned by winning control of North Sea oil and
investment in renewable energy, he has said. He has left open
the possibility of joining the euro, while no decision has been
made about whether to create its own financial regulator or
operate “in partnership” with the U.K. authorities.  Scotland is pushing for control over company tax and the
ability to raise money itself, partly by selling bonds, adding
to a transfer of power proposed in the  Scotland Bill  that is
currently going through the U.K. parliament. The U.K. government
hasn’t yet made up its mind about  corporation tax .  Scottish Financial Enterprise, which is based in Edinburgh
and whose members include most of Scotland’s financial industry,
hasn’t yet received answers to questions put to the Scottish
government last year, Chief Executive Officer Owen Kelly said.  “A good deal of uncertainty could be removed by an
examination of the evidence,” Kelly said in an interview in the
Scottish capital last month. “Just competing assertions is not
enough before the referendum. We think work can be done to
achieve greater certainty.”  Regulation  The group wants to know who would regulate the finance
industry in Scotland, the impact on existing U.K. double
taxation agreements with other countries and whether Scotland
would automatically be a member of the EU.  Scotland’s credit rating might be  adversely affected  by
independence, according to Jim Leaviss, a bond analyst at
 Prudential Plc (PRU) ’s M&G Investments fund unit in London. It shares
the U.K.’s AAA grade at present.  Few Scottish business leaders have spoken publicly about
constitutional change.  Scotland should have more fiscal autonomy, setting its own
rates of corporation tax and keeping the revenues it raises, in
order to get away from Scotland’s dependency on the U.K., Martin Gilbert, chief executive officer of  Aberdeen Asset Management
Plc (ADN) , Scotland’s largest fund manager, said in an interview.  ‘Informed Judgment’  “Whether it is independence or not is a matter for the
voters to decide,” Gilbert said in an interview in London last
month. “I would like to see all the figures so you can make an
informed judgment. At the moment you don’t know what the true
figures are.”  Boyd Tunnock, chairman of  Tunnock’s , the Scottish maker of
Caramel Wafers and Snowballs, said continuing constitutional
uncertainty is damaging business confidence.  “Scotland and Scottish business needs certainty and
clarity,” Tunnock said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “We
need the independence referendum to be held as soon as is
reasonable so that investors know where they stand.”  U.K. politicians including Cameron, Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne , Deputy Prime Minister  Nick Clegg  and
Scottish Secretary  Michael Moore  have said the uncertainty is
deterring companies from investing in Scotland.  The three main British political parties are all opposed to
Scotland leaving the U.K.  Amazon in Scotland  Companies including  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s largest
online retailer,  Michelin & Cie. , the world’s second-largest
tire maker, and  Dell Inc. , the world’s third-largest personal-
computer maker, announced plans last year to invest in Scotland.  A key SNP policy is for Scotland to generate all its
electricity needs by 2020 from renewable sources of energy as
part of a policy to create 130,000 jobs.  That will require Scotland’s generating capacity to double
at a cost of 46 billion pounds ($71 billion),  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
analyst  Peter Atherton  estimated Nov. 1.  Utilities, especially  SSE Plc (SSE)  and  Iberdrola SA (IBER) ’s
ScottishPower unit, should exercise “extreme caution” in
committing further capital to Scotland until it was clear that
the subsidy on any new projects would be 100 percent legally
guaranteed, Atherton said.  SSE, which is based in Perth, and ScottishPower declined to
comment on the report. Constitutional arrangements are a matter
for voters, SSE said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net  