-- Sears Supplier Loans Are Said to Be Halted by CIT Starting Today
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-01-12T16:58:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/sears-supplier-loans-halted-by-cit.html
Sears Holdings Corp. (SHLD)  declined after
two people familiar with the situation said suppliers will no
longer be able to get loans or payment guarantees from  CIT (CIT)  Group
Inc. for their shipments to the retailer.  Sears fell 4.8 percent to $31.33 at 11:54 a.m. in New York.
The  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based company’s  shares  dropped 56
percent last year.  CIT, the largest U.S. company that provides what’s known as
factoring, told clients it would no longer approve credit for
orders starting today, according to the people, who declined to
be identified because the information isn’t public.  One risk when a factoring company pulls credit to  suppliers 
is that others may follow suit. Some factors already have become
reluctant to take on shipments to Sears, while others are
demanding a “substantial” premium, Bobby Cohen, chief
executive officer of Lochem Capital, said today in an interview.  “There’s so much low-hanging fruit out there that they say
to themselves, ‘I don’t need to have a dog in this fight,’”
said Cohen, whose Roslyn, New York-based company serves as a
broker between buyers and suppliers. The upheaval probably will
be temporary, he said.  Sears has enough liquidity that it will weather the
situation, said Matthew McGinley, managing director at
International Strategy & Investment Group in New York.  “Even with Sears’s deteriorating financial condition, it
is pretty unlikely that a vendor shouldn’t ship over the near
term,” he said yesterday in a telephone interview.  Declining Sales  Sears has lost ground as shoppers have flocked to such
rivals as  Macy’s Inc. (M)  Chairman  Edward Lampert , who along with
his hedge fund owns about 60 percent of the U.S. department
store chain, has presided over four years of declining sales
since merging Sears Roebuck with Kmart in 2005.  Goods factored by CIT represent less than 5 percent of the
company’s inventory, Sears said.  “We disagree with their action” and “point out that
other factors are approving shipments to Sears,” Chris Brathwaite, a Sears spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “It’s important to note, that  Sears Holdings  has
more than adequate liquidity and ample resources at our
disposal.”  Lampert bought 4.46 million shares from his ESL hedge fund
at $29.20 per share, according to a regulatory filing yesterday.  CIT Fees  Factoring companies such as New York-based CIT provide
money on a short-term basis for manufacturers to produce goods
for retailers. In return, they get a fee based on a percentage
of the total order.  “We don’t comment on specific customers,”  Curt Ritter , a
spokesman for CIT, said yesterday in a telephone interview. The
New York-based company is led by  John Thain , formerly chairman
and chief executive officer of Merrill Lynch & Co.  Clothing and home goods, items for which credit is often
provided by factoring companies, account for about 28 percent of
Sears’s sales, according to  Gary Balter , an analyst at Credit
Suisse Group AG. Lands’ End and other private-label goods sold
by Sears aren’t factored.  Whirlpool, Electrolux  Sears has a $3.275 billion credit facility, in addition to
other assets and credit in  Canada , McGinley said. Larger and
healthier vendors to Sears don’t need to use factors, he said.  Still, even the largest suppliers are affected by Sears.
Appliance maker  Whirlpool Corp. (WHR) , which received 8 percent of its
2010 revenue through Sears, fell 8.9 percent on Dec. 27 when the
retailer said holiday sales declined and it would close as many
as 120 stores.  Whirlpool’s only larger customer in 2010 was Lowe’s Cos.,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Stockholm-based  Electrolux AB (ELUXB)  got 5.8 percent of its
revenue through Sears in 2010, making Sears the biggest customer
for its appliances. Electrolux dropped 2.5 percent after the
store closings were announced.  Credit-default swaps that protect investors against a
default by Sears soared to a record. The contracts jumped 10.5
percentage points to 44.9 percent upfront as of 10:30 a.m. in
New York, according to data provider CMA. That’s in addition to
5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $4.49 million initially
and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of Sears’ debt.  Swaps tied to Whirlpool’s debt, which typically rise as
investor confidence deteriorates, jumped to the highest level
since April 2009, adding 21 basis points to 349, according to
CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted
by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower
fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted
debt. The contracts, which investors use to hedge against losses
on corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, decline
as investor confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  