-- Sears Swaps Soar to Record as CIT Said to Halt Vendor Loans
-- B y   M a r y   C h i l d s
-- 2012-01-12T23:39:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/sears-swaps-soar-to-record-as-cit-said-to-halt-vendor-loans.html
The cost of protecting  Sears
Holdings Corp. (SHLD) ’s debt from losses surged to a record following
reports that suppliers will no longer be able to get loans or
payment guarantees from CIT Group Inc. for their shipments to
the retailer.  Credit-default swaps on  Hoffman Estates , Illinois-based
Sears jumped 7.6 percentage points to 42 percent upfront as of 5
p.m. in New York, according to data provider CMA. That’s in
addition to 5 percent a year, meaning it would cost $4.2 million
initially and $500,000 annually to protect $10 million of
Sears’s debt.  CIT, the largest U.S. company that provides so-called
factoring, told clients it would no longer approve credit for
orders starting today, Bloomberg News first reported yesterday,
citing people who declined to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Goods factored by  CIT (CIT)  represent less
than 5 percent of the company’s inventory, Sears said.  Factoring companies such as New York-based CIT provide
money on a short-term basis for manufacturers to produce goods
for retailers. In return, they get a fee based on a percentage
of the total order.  “We disagree with their action” and “point out that
other factors are approving shipments to Sears,” Chris Brathwaite, a Sears spokesman, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “It’s important to note, that  Sears Holdings  has
more than adequate liquidity and ample resources at our
disposal.”  Whirlpool Swaps  Swaps tied to Whirlpool Corp. debt jumped to the highest
level since April 2009, adding 16.3 basis points to 342.9,
according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles
prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated market.  The  Benton Harbor , Michigan-based appliance maker received
8 percent of its 2010 revenue through Sears. Its only larger
customer in 2010 was Lowe’s Cos., the home improvement retailer,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Whirlpool fell 8.9
percent on Dec. 27, when Sears said holiday sales declined and
it would close as many as 120 stores.  A benchmark gauge of U.S. company credit risk dropped to
the lowest level since October as reduced borrowing costs at
Spanish and Italian auctions eased concern  Europe ’s sovereign-
debt crisis is getting worse.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index of
credit-default swaps, which investors use to hedge against
losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, decreased 1.3 basis
points to a mid-price of 114.7 basis points as of 5:10 p.m. in
New York, according to Markit Group Ltd.  Spanish Bond Sale  The gauge slid for a fourth day as  Spain  sold 10 billion
euros ($13 billion) of bonds, twice the target for the sale,
while Italy sold 12 billion euros of bills, easing concern the
countries are struggling to finance their debts. The auctions
outweighed government reports that showed  sales  at U.S.
retailers rose in December less than projected and more
Americans than forecast  filed  applications for  unemployment
benefits  last week.  The index, which typically falls as investor confidence
improves and rises as it deteriorates, touched 113.6 basis
points, the lowest level since Oct. 28.  The U.S. two-year  interest-rate swap spread  decreased 2.7
basis points to 35.1 basis points after touching 34.5 basis
points, the narrowest since Nov. 8.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  The interest-rate swap spread is based in part on
expectations for the London interbank offered rate and used to
gauge investor perceptions of credit risk.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Childs in  New York  at 
 mchilds5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  