-- Seat Pagine Said to Weigh Adding Senior Bondholders to Restructuring Talks
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i   a n d   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i
-- 2012-01-12T14:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/seat-pagine-said-to-weigh-adding-senior-bondholders-to-talks.html
Seat Pagine Gialle SpA (PG) ,  Italy ’s
largest phone-book publisher, may extend a proposal to
restructure its debt to senior bondholders, two people familiar
with the matter said.  The senior noteholders, who own about 750 million euros
($957 million) of Seat Pagine bonds, may be involved to broaden
approval for the plan and avoid possible legal challenges from
them, the people said, who asked not to be identified because
the deliberations are private. The Turin-based company is
discussing a debt-restructuring with its controlling investors,
senior lenders including Royal Bank of Scotland Plc, and holders
of its junior Lighthouse bonds.  Seat Pagine last month extended the deadline for the
acceptance of its restructuring plan by senior lenders to Jan.
16. The company is slated to hold a board meeting on Jan. 17, at
which it probably will extend the deadline for an agreement, the
people said. Private-equity firms Permira Advisers Ltd., CVC
Capital Partners Ltd. and Investitori Associati SpA control
about 50 percent of the publisher.  Seat Pagine  rose as much as 9.8 percent  to 2.69 euro cents
and was up 5.3 percent as of 3:24 p.m. in Milan trading. The
stock has lost 58 percent in the past six months, giving the
company a market value of 50 million euros.  The current proposal includes a debt-for-equity swap for
holders of the Lighthouse bonds, which would make them the
biggest investors in Seat Pagine. Senior bondholders are arguing
that the possible change in control makes them interested
parties in the negotiations, according to the people familiar.  Seat Pagine is withholding from paying coupons and interest
related to financing agreements, pending the approval from all
relevant parties of a restructuring proposal.  A Seat Pagine spokesman declined to comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net ;
Elisa Martinuzzi in Milan at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  