-- Leahy Floats Change to Senate Version of Hollywood-Backed Anti-Piracy Bill
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-13T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/senator-leahy-proposes-change-to-hollywood-backed-anti-piracy-measure.html
The chairman of the Senate Judiciary
Committee said he may seek to revise a Hollywood-backed anti-
piracy bill that has drawn objections from  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Facebook
Inc. and other Internet companies.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat, said in an
interview yesterday with Vermont Public Radio that he’s willing
to hold back a requirement in the bill that would force
Internet-service providers, when served with a court order, to
block access to non-U.S. websites that offer pirated content and
counterfeit goods.  The full Senate is scheduled to hold a procedural vote on
the measure, the Protect IP Act, on Jan. 24. Leahy said in an e-
mailed statement after yesterday’s interview that he’s preparing
an amendment proposing that the ISP provision be studied before
it is implemented.  “I regret that  law enforcement  will not have this remedy
available to it when websites operating overseas are stealing
American property, threatening the safety and security of
American consumers,” Leahy said in the e-mail, adding that the
bill retains a “strong and balanced approach” to protecting
intellectual property.  The Senate measure, which has more than 40 Senate co-
sponsors, was approved by the Senate Judiciary Committee in May.
Leahy didn’t address other provisions of the bill, which include
letting the  Justice Department  seek court orders requiring
 search engines , payment services and advertising networks to
block or cease business with non-U.S. sites linked to piracy.  Online Theft  The Protect IP Act and similar House legislation are backed
by the movie and music industries as a way to crack down on
online theft of their content. Internet companies are waging a
campaign to block the legislation, saying it will spur Web
censorship and threaten the growth of the U.S. technology
industry.  Public Knowledge , a Washington-based digital-rights group,
said the bill is unacceptable even with Leahy’s proposed change.  “The definitions in the bill are still far too sweeping,
it still grants too much enforcement power to private parties,
and still confers inappropriate blanket immunity for private
companies,” Sherwin Siy, the group’s deputy legal director,
said in an e-mail.  The House Judiciary Committee is set to resume
consideration of the House version of the bill, the Stop Online
Piracy Act, when Congress returns from its recess. The committee
hasn’t set a date yet.  The House bill is H.R. 3261, and the Senate bill is S. 968.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in Washington at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  