-- Senrigan, Azentus Among Asian Hedge Funds Said to Have Lost Money in 2011
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-01-12T08:09:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/senrigan-azentus-among-hedge-funds-in-asia-said-to-lose-money-last-year.html
Senrigan Capital Group Ltd. and
Azentus Capital Management Ltd., two of  Asia ’s biggest hedge-
fund startups since 2009, lost money in 2011 as the region’s
funds had their second-worst performance on record, said four
people familiar with the returns.  Senrigan (SENGRZ) , which manages about $1 billion and is backed by
Blackstone Group LP, is estimated to have lost more than 8.5
percent last year, said two of the people with direct knowledge
of the figures, who asked not to be identified because the
information is private. Azentus lost 6.8 percent since it was
started in April by a former Goldman Sachs Group Inc. executive,
said two other people.  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index retreated 17 percent last year,
more than twice the MSCI World Index’s loss, as the European
debt crisis renewed worries about a global economic slowdown,
while Asian countries braced for slowing exports and rising
inflation. An  index  tracking Asian  hedge funds  dropped 8.3
percent in 2011 based on preliminary data, the second-worst year
since Eurekahedge Pte began compiling data in 2000.  Ortus Fund  Not all funds based in  Hong Kong  lost money last year. The
$2.35 billion  Ortus Fund (Cayman) Ltd. , overseen by Ortus
Capital Management Ltd., returned 5.7 percent, said two people
with direct knowledge of the returns who asked not to be
identified because the information is private.  “Running large assets in Asia is tough unless you are
running it in liquid  currency markets  like Ortus has been,”
said  Paul Smith , chief executive officer of Hong Kong-based
asset manager and hedge-fund distributor Triple A Partners Ltd.
“The currency markets had more of a discernible trend in 2011
than equity markets did.”  Swings of the stock markets coupled with political
interferences, such as short sale curbs in  South Korea  and
 Australia , made it difficult for larger equity-focused managers
to make money, Smith added.  Katarina Bendle, who handles Senrigan’s  investor relations ,
Roger Denby-Jones, Azentus’s chief operating officer in Hong
Kong, and Janice Tang, Ortus’s head of investor relations,
declined to comment.  Senrigan Loses  Hong Kong-based Senrigan, founded by Nick Taylor, a former
head of Citadel LLC’s principal investments business in Asia and
 Europe , is an event-driven fund that bets on securities affected
by corporate activities such as mergers and reorganizations.  The fund made profits from “hard catalysts”, such as
already announced deals, said one of the people. Still, it lost
money on “soft catalysts”, such as expected mergers and
acquisitions as economic and market uncertainties have weakened
boardroom confidence, leading to delays of not yet announced yet
possible deals, the person said.  Eurekahedge Event-Driven Hedge Fund Index (EHFI288) , which tracks 98
funds employing the strategy globally, lost 4.6 percent last
year, with 44 percent of the funds having reported December
figures so far.  The Senrigan fund returned 6 percent in 2010, its first
full year after trading started in November 2009, according to
two of the people.  Azentus Assets  Assets of Azentus, Asia’s largest new hedge fund, founded
by Morgan Sze, a former global head of Goldman Sachs’s principal
strategies proprietary trading desk, dropped to just above $1.9
billion after hitting $2 billion earlier, two of the people said.  The majority of Azentus’s assets are invested in equities
and equity-related options, said one of the people. The fund’s
loss last year was less than half of the 16 percent decline in
the  MSCI Asia-Pacific Index (MXAP)  since Azentus started trading on
April 1.  Ortus Aggressive Fund, which has assets of about $776
million and takes on more leverage than Ortus’s main fund,
gained 12.6 percent, the people said. Total firm assets under
management jumped 62 percent from $1.9 billion at the start of
2011, the people said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in Hong Kong at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  