-- Serbian 2012 Elections May Hamper Foreign Investment Inflows
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-01-12T15:19:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/serbian-2012-elections-may-hamper-foreign-investment-inflows.html
Serbia may attract less foreign
direct investment this year, after luring at least $2.5 billion
in 2011, as investors may be more wary until after elections
that will take place no later than early May.  The 2011 total could be as much as $3 billion if the
equipment purchased and installed by  Fiat SpA (F)  at its factory in
Kragujevac in central Serbia is entered in the books for last
year, said Aleksandar Miloradovic, a spokesman for  Serbia’s
Investment and Export Promotion Agency , or SIEPA.  “We, in SIEPA, know that repeating such a result in 2012
would be a great success because of the election year, when
investment activities typically decline by 50 percent or more
and when decision-makers do not want to take any risk ahead of
the vote,” Miloradovic said in a phone interview.  Elections, rather than  Europe ’s debt crisis, will be the
main risk for new investment, Miloradovic said, referring to a
vote for parliament due by early May. A decision by the European
Union leaders in March on  Serbia ’s candidacy for the membership
of the bloc could turn into an “investment booster,” he said.  European Union leaders declined to grant Serbia candidate
status in December, citing insufficient progress in resolving
outstanding issues with its former breakaway province of  Kosovo .
They next meet in March to look into the progress before
approving Belgrade’s bid.  EU Ties  Shunned by western investors under former President
 Slobodan Milosevic , Serbia has made progress in overhauling its
economy and stabilizing the political system, and has been
counting on closer ties with the EU and working to tear down
political, economic and legal obstacles to entry as it seeks
investment to keep the economy from falling back into recession.  Miloradovic said it will be more difficult this year to
attract the “number of brands that entered the market in
2011,” referring to investors such as  Robert Bosch GmbH (RBOS) ,  Cooper
Tire & Rubber Co.  , Swarovski International AG,  ContiTech AG (BTR) , a
unit of  Continental AG (CON) ,  Panasonic Corp. (6752)  and  Benetton Group SpA. (BEN)   SIEPA, which handles small-to-medium investments of as much
as 100 million euros ($128 million) each, sees further interest
this year in the car supplying industries, agriculture and food,
electronics and an increased investor interest in tourism, and
depending on market conditions, there could be a “return of
real estate investors,” Miloradovic said.  Biggest Greenfield Investment  While investor interest in renewable energy sources has not
declined, time-consuming regulatory and licensing procedures
weigh on the pace and volume of investments, he said.  SIEPA’s annual pipeline “typically consists of 80
projects, but in 2011, 48 were realized,” he said.  “Talks are under way on probably the biggest greenfield
investment ever in Serbia, worth around 500 million euros in the
metallurgy sector,” Miloradovic said, declining to unveil the
identity of the “Italian investor.” Belgrade-based Beta news
agency wrote on Dec. 13 that  Danieli SpA (DAN) ,  Italy ’s biggest maker
of equipment for steel production is considering a 500 million-
euro investment in Serbia.  The type of investment in Serbia has been undergoing a
change, as the Western Balkan nation no longer relies “on
cheap, but rather skilled labor” to boost appeal among
investors who are now seeking opportunities in high technology
and services, rather than “traditional industries where they’d
buy land or equipment,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  