-- Sino-Forest Bondholders Agree to Default Waiver, Cutting Bankruptcy Risk
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   D o n v i l l e
-- 2012-01-13T09:52:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/sino-forest-bondholders-agree-to-default-waiver-cutting-bankruptcy-risk.html
Sino-Forest Corp. (TRE) , the Chinese
timber company fending off allegations of fraud, said it reached
a waiver agreement with a group of bondholders, reducing the
risk of bankruptcy.  Holders of a majority of its senior notes due 2014 and 2017
agreed to waive the default, Hong Kong- and Mississauga,
Ontario-based Sino-Forest said yesterday in a statement. In
December, the company said it received notices of default after
announcing it wouldn’t publish its third-quarter financial
results on “a timely basis.”  “It keeps Sino-Forest out of bankruptcy for the time
being,” Geof Marshall, who helps oversee C$5 billion ($4.9
billion) of fixed-income funds at CI Investments Inc. in
Toronto, said in a telephone interview.  A special committee of directors has been investigating
allegations in a June report by short seller Carson Block’s
Muddy Waters LLC that Sino-Forest overstated its timber assets
in  China . After the report, the shares fell 74 percent before
trading was suspended by the Ontario Securities Commission in
August, reducing the company’s market value by C$3.3 billion.  Sino-Forest, which is also under investigation by the OSC
and the  Royal Canadian Mounted Police , denies the allegations.  Trading Suspension  The company is also negotiating terms of an extension of a
share-trading suspension by the OSC,  Canada ’s main securities
regulator, which was due to end Jan. 25, according to the
statement.  Greenheart Group Ltd. (94) , Sino-Forest’s unit, was unchanged at
85 Hong Kong cents as of the 4 p.m. close. The benchmark  Hang
Seng  index climbed 0.6 percent.  Greenheart, 64 percent controlled by Sino-Forest, surged  50
percent  on Jan. 11 when its parent said it’s “optimistic” of
reaching a waiver agreement with bondholders.  Sino-Forest said yesterday it will complete and make public
a final report on the special committee’s investigation of the
Muddy Waters allegations by Jan. 31. The company said last month
the report wouldn’t be completed until some time in 2012.  The waiver agreement with the bondholders gives them a say
on appointments of Sino-Forest directors and senior executives,
access to the company’s offices, accounts, books and records, as
well as updates on significant transactions, according to the
statement.  Sino-Forest said it has agreed to make the $9.78 million
interest payment due last month on its 2016 convertible notes.
The company will also pay a waiver fee totaling $9.99 million,
or 1 percent of the principal amount, to all holders of the 2014
and 2017 senior notes.  Minimum Cash  Sino-Forest agreed that it and its subsidiaries will keep
at least $165 million in cash in China, excluding  Hong Kong , and
a minimum of $140 million outside of China, including Hong Kong,
according to the statement. The company also agreed to
“monetize” assets to repay debt.  Sino-Forest said it also pledged to provide a strategic
plan to the committee of bondholders before the end of March.  Chief Executive Officer Judson Martin said in November that
Sino-Forest may consider going private, selling a stake or
seeking a merger to raise funds. Martin took over from company
co-founder  Allen Chan  in August and is also CEO of Greenheart.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Donville in  Vancouver  at 
 cjdonville@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 