-- Solar Stocks Drag Down N.Y. Index as Sina Rises: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-12T23:02:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/solar-stocks-drag-down-new-york-index-as-sina-rises-china-overnight.html
Chinese stocks  traded in the U.S.
fell for a second day, led by solar companies, as concern over
the outlooks for the U.S. and Europe outweighs a slower
inflation pace in the Asian nation.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  slumped 0.2 percent to
100.32 as trading closed in New York.  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  dropped the
most among peers on speculation a rally the day before was
excessive.  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (CEA)  traded at the biggest
premium in three weeks of 1.8 percent over its Hong Kong-listed
shares. Video website  Tudou Holdings Ltd. (TUDO)  led gains in Internet
companies while  Sina Corp. (SINA)  rose after a recommendation upgrade.  Inflation for December cooled to the slowest pace in 15
months in  China . Policy makers cut reserve ratios for banks last
month for the first time since 2008 to spur lending as the
economy grew the least in two years. U.S. data showed jobless
claims increased more than forecast last week and December
retail sales rose less than projected.  “The odds dwindled a little bit” for China to cut banks’
reserve ratio before the Chinese New Year starting Jan. 23,
David Woo, the global head of rates and currencies in New York
at Bank of America Merrill Lynch said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television. “Before we get too bullish on China, we
need to be a little bit more cautious about the outlook for the
U.S. and  Europe .”  Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent in December from a year
earlier, China’s statistics bureau said yesterday. That compared
with the 4 percent median estimate of 26 economists in a
Bloomberg survey and a 4.2 percent gain in November.  Shanghai Stock Benchmark  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slipped 0.1 percent to
2,275.01. The Standard & Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  of U.S. stocks
advanced for the fourth day, adding 0.2 percent to 1,295.50.  “The market shouldn’t expect China will loosen policy very
soon,”  Joseph Yam , former Chief Executive at the  Hong Kong 
Monetary Authority, told reporters yesterday in the city.
“China’s prudent monetary policy stance is appropriate. If they
loosen that very soon, I would indeed worry about a significant
slowdown in the economy.”  LDK, based in Jiangxi province in China, sank 4.3 percent
to $5.28, following an 18 percent gain a day earlier.  Suntech
Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the biggest solar-panel maker, retreated 3.1
percent after surging 27 percent in the previous session.  The Jan. 11 rally in Chinese solar shares followed reports
that the government plans to develop 3 gigawatts of solar
capacity this year while  Germany  installed 3 gigawatts of solar
panels in December, the most in a single month.  Overcapacity  “The market is too bullish on German and Chinese demand,”
Hong Kong-based analysts led by Scully Tsoi at Samsung
Securities Co. wrote in a report yesterday. “We remain cautious
on the sector owing to overcapacity issues.”  Sanjay Shrestha, an equity analyst at Lazard  Capital
Markets , cut Suntech yesterday to “neutral” from “buy”
while maintaining a “buy” rating on  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)   Trina rose 9.4 percent, taking its gains this week to 52
percent.  The iShares FTSE China 25 Index  Fund (FXI) , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., rose 0.3 percent to $36.84.
The yuan was little changed at 6.3178 a dollar, according to the
China Foreign Exchange Trade System.  The American depositary receipts of  China Eastern , a
Shanghai-based carrier, climbed 2.5 percent to $18.75, 1.8
percent higher than its share price in Hong Kong, the biggest
premium since Dec. 22. Each ADR represents 50 common shares.  Chinese Airlines  China Eastern plans to boost capacity 10 percent this year
and expects domestic market demand to expand as much as 12
percent, Richard Wei, an analyst at UBS AG, said in a note to
investors yesterday. The company plans no new long-haul routes
and will cut some unprofitable services this year, according to
the note.  The ADRs of  China Southern Airlines Co. (ZNH) ,  Asia ’s biggest
carrier, advanced 1.5 percent to $29.72 and traded at a 1.7
percent premium over its Hong Kong-listed shares.  Tudou, the operator of China’s second-largest online-video
website, leaped 9.2 percent to one-month high of $12.23.  “Tudou became the top video website in terms of both
unique users and market share based on page views,” Connie Gu,
a Beijing-based analyst at Bocom International Holdings Co. said
in a monthly report on Internet traffic yesterday.  Sina, the Twitter-like service provider in China, gained
4.6 percent to a one-month high of $60.12. The company was
raised to “overweight” from “neutral” at JPMorgan Securities
Ltd. by equity analyst Dick Wei, with a 12-month price target of
$79.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, expanded 9.1
percent in the third quarter from a year earlier, down from 9.5
percent growth in the second quarter. The growth probably slowed
to 8.7 percent in the last three months, according to the median
forecast of 27 economists in a Bloomberg survey. The government
is scheduled to report the figures Jan. 17.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  