-- Solar Slump Ending, Says Axiom Analyst Who Predicted Armageddon
-- B y   B e n   S i l l s
-- 2012-01-12T13:03:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/solar-slump-ending-says-axiom-analyst-who-predicted-armageddon.html
Gordon Johnson , the Axiom Capital
Management Inc. analyst who predicted “Armageddon” for the
solar industry 14 months ago, said the crash that wiped $27
billion off the value of the shares last year may be over.  Johnson raised his rating on  First Solar Inc. (FSLR) , the
industry’s biggest company by market value, to “neutral” from
the “sell” he recommended since 2008. He also upgraded  Trina
Solar Ltd. (TSL) , Yingli Green Energy Holdings Co.,  Power-One Inc. (PWER)  and
Suntech Power Holdings Co.  Solar installations in Germany and the U.K. surged in the 
final quarter of 2011, helping clear inventories that led to a 
51 percent decline in the price of solar panels last year.  China  
plans to double solar energy use this year and consolidate the 
number of companies supplying panels. The Bloomberg Large Solar 
Index has risen 24 percent so far this year.  “The German residential solar market is showing resilience
in 2012,” New York-based Johnson said in a note to clients last
night. “One large German distribution vendor informed us that
the residential market is now supply-constrained (yes, you heard
that right).”  The Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index of 37 companies 
rose for a third day yesterday, climbing 7.2 percent to $47.94 
in  New York .  Energy Conversion Devices Inc. (ENER) ’s 39 percent 
increase and  Hanwha SolarOne (HSOL)  Co.'s 37 percent gain led the 
index, which has risen 16 percent this year after falling 59 
percent in 2011.  German Demand  Germany  added a record amount of solar panels last year as
developers raced to beat a subsidy cut in the world’s biggest
photovoltaic market. December installations reached 3 gigawatts,
the most the country has added in a single month, the grid 
regulator said Jan. 9. Volumes for 2011 may be the most ever at 
7.5 gigawatts.  The head of China’s National Energy Administration Liu
Tienan said on Jan. 10 the country plans to double the amount of
solar capacity in operation by installing 3 gigawatts this year.
The final number may exceed 5 gigawatts, said Aaron Chew, a
Maxim Group LLC analyst in New York.  “I’m pretty bullish on demand in 2012,” Chew said in an
interview. “If pricing remains the same, I see 30 gigawatts
this year and 40 gigawatts next year” of new solar
installations worldwide.  Solar Slump  Solar-power stocks were hammered last year because Chinese
companies such as  LDK Solar (LDK)  Ltd. and  JA Solar (JASO)  ramped up
production at the same time that governments from Germany to 
 Italy  slashed support for new installations.  Panel prices fell 51 percent in 2011, and polysilicon, the
semiconductor that’s the raw material for most panels, sank 67
percent between March and December.  Polysilicon spot prices posted their biggest gain in 8
months in the first week of the year, rising 3 percent,
according to Bloomberg New Energy Finance data.  The U.K. also saw installations surge in the final part of
2011 as the price of panels tumbled. Installations for the year
rose to 762 megawatts, 10 times the previous year’s total,
according to figures from the Ofgem energy regulator.  U.K. Energy Secretary  Chris Huhne  twice last year moved to
lower the feed-in tariff introduced in April 2010, which
guarantees above-market rates for solar power, sparking a legal
battle with developers.  The strength of German installations will probably trigger 
an automatic 15 percent cut in subsidies beginning in July, the
BSW-Solar lobby group said. Economy Minister Philipp Roesler 
said aid must fall as German taxpayers face up to the costs of 
the sovereign debt crisis.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sills in Madrid  at 
 bsills@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  