-- South African Manufacturing Growth Accelerates to 2.6% as Economy Recovers
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-01-12T13:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/south-africa-manufacturing-growth-quickens-to-2-6-as-economy-recovers.html
South African  manufacturing  growth
accelerated in November, strengthening the recovery in  Africa ’s
biggest economy and easing pressure on the central bank to cut
 interest rates .  Factory output increased 2.6 percent from a year earlier,
compared with a revised 1.2 percent in October, Pretoria-based
Statistics South Africa said on its website today. The  median
estimate  in a Bloomberg survey of six economists was 1.3
percent. Output rose a seasonally adjusted 2.9 percent in the
month.  “We are gaining some traction,” Shireen Darmalingam, an
economist at Standard Bank Group Ltd., said in a telephone
interview from Johannesburg today. “We shouldn’t rule out that
there are some risks to the sector still. The economy is going
to be at the mercy of what is going on in the  euro zone .”  Consumer spending and business confidence are gaining as
growth recovers from its slowest pace in about two years in the
second and third quarters of 2011. The  Reserve Bank  held the
 repurchase rate  at a 30-year low for the whole of last year to
support the economy through a worsening debt crisis in  Europe ,
which buys about a third of South Africa’s manufactured exports.  The rand rallied after the data was released, gaining 1.1
percent to 8.0298 per dollar at 1:38 p.m. in Johannesburg, from
8.0583 earlier. The currency has gained 0.7 percent this year.  The purchasing managers’ index rose for a fourth month in
November, improving the outlook for factory production, Kagiso
Tiso Holdings said on Dec. 1. The rand’s 3.1 percent drop
against the dollar in November also helped lower prices for
manufactured goods, Darmalingam said.  A contraction in manufacturing, which accounts for about 15
percent of the economy, for a second consecutive quarter in the
three months through September limited the economy’s expansion
to 1.4 percent. Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan  in October cut
the government’s growth forecast for this year to 3.4 percent
from 4.1 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  