-- South Korea to Start OTC Derivatives Clearing House to Cut Global Risks
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   E l e n i   H i m a r a s
-- 2012-01-12T00:02:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/south-korea-to-start-otc-derivatives-clearinghoue-to-reduce-global-risks.html
Korea Exchange Inc. plans to start a
 clearing house  for over-the-counter derivatives trading in the
fourth quarter as  Asia ’s bourses join global efforts to reduce
risk in the largely unregulated market.  Korea Exchange, which operates the nation’s stock market,
will first mandate clearing interest-rate swaps between
financial firms operating in  South Korea , Kim Jingyu, the
president of the exchange’s derivatives market division, said in
an interview at his  Seoul  office on Jan. 10. The clearing house
will expand to other over-the-counter products such as credit-
default swaps and cross-border trades, Kim said, without giving
a time frame.  Regulators worldwide are increasing scrutiny of over-the-
counter derivatives after they were blamed in part for masking
risk in the lead up to the 2008 credit crisis and the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. Governments globally are
working to move the trades on to exchanges and through central
clearing houses, which manage risk. The market reached $708
trillion at the end of June 2011, according to  Bank for
International Settlements  data.  “We’re making preparations to establish and operate a
central counterparty for OTC derivatives transactions, in line
with global moves,” Kim said. “It’s aimed at securing more
stability in the financial system.”  Interest-rate and credit-default swaps may be subject to
mandatory clearing first, according to South Korea’s Financial
Services Commission.  Clearing houses operate as central counterparties for every
buy and sell order executed by their members. Each party posts
collateral to the clearing house, which is the intermediary in
the trade, reducing the risk in the event a trader defaults on a
deal as the counterparties would spread the open positions to
the remaining members.  Global Efforts  The Group of 20, comprised of the biggest industrialized
and emerging economies, has promised to implement derivative
reforms by the end of 2012.  Hong Kong  last year started consultations on proposals for
regulation of the city’s over-the-counter derivatives market in
a bid to reduce systemic risk.  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (GSX)  began
clearing non-deliverable forwards and standardized interest rate
swaps in Singapore dollars and U.S. dollars. The Japan
Securities Clearing Corporation  began clearing  over-the-counter
credit defaults swaps on the iTraxx Japan Index in July.
Regulators are drafting rules for an interest-rate swap clearing
house.  Korea Exchange is studying ways to list one-year bond
futures after having introduced three-, five- and 10-year
futures, and to introduce Chinese yuan futures “sometime in the
future,” Kim said.  Volatility Futures  The exchange plans to list futures for the Kospi 200
Volatility Index “as soon as possible” after consultations
with the nation’s regulators, Kim said. The gauge measures the
volatility of options tied to the Kospi 200 Index. The Korean
bourse, whose Kospi 200 futures contracts are currently being
traded on CME Group Inc.’s Globex electronic network, is in
discussions to start after-hours trading for U.S. dollar futures
this year, Kim said.  A derivative is a contract between two parties linked to
the future value or status of the underlying asset to which it
refers, including the development of  interest rates  or price of
commodities such as oil or wheat. An over-the-counter derivative
is one privately negotiated between two parties, rather than
being traded on an exchange.  -- With assistance from Jiyeun Lee in Seoul. Editors: Allen Wan,
Ravil Shirodkar  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Eleni Himaras in Hong Kong at 
 ehimaras@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  