-- Borrowing Costs Fall in Spain, Italy, Easing Government Financing Concerns
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-12T13:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/spain-sells-twice-bond-target-as-borrowing-costs-fall.html
Spain  sold 10 billion euros ($13
billion) of bonds, twice the target for the sale, while Italy
placed 12 billion euros of bills, easing concerns the countries
would struggle to finance their debts and sending bonds higher.  Spain sold a new benchmark three-year note due July 2015 to
yield 3.384 percent, the Bank of Spain said in Madrid. That
compared with 5.187 percent the last time similar maturity debt
was sold in December. Italy’s Treasury sold one-year bills at
2.735 percent, less than half the 5.952 percent paid on similar-
maturity securities on Dec. 12.  Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  and Spanish premier
 Mariano Rajoy  are imposing austerity measures to convince
investors they can put their nations’ finances in order and
avert being engulfed by the sovereign debt crisis. The European
Central Banks lent 489 billion euros of three-year funds last
month, a move that Madrid-based Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA said would allow banks to buy more government debt.  The ECB lending “means there is abundant liquidity in the
system and this is something that helps ease the supply
pressure,” said  Silvio Peruzzo , an economist at Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc in  London .  Bonds Gain  Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond yield declined 20 basis
points to 5.13 percent at 2:20 p.m. Madrid time, the lowest in
more than a week. Italy’s 10-year yield slipped 35 basis points
to 6.63 percent, while the yield on Italian two-year debt
plunged 54 basis points to 4.17 percent.  “The effect of the ECB’s latest liquidity measures is
palpable and has been a boon for the shorter end of the curve,”
Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in
London said in an e-mail. “Few would have predicted as recently
as last month that Italy would be paying as little as 2.7
percent for 1-year paper. This is on a par with Italy’s
borrowing costs before it got sucked into the euro-zone crisis
in July.”  Gains by Spanish and Italian bonds reduced the risk premium
investors demand to hold the debt over comparable German
securities. The gap between Spanish and German 10-year yields
fell to 330 basis points at 2:20 p.m. in  Madrid  from 351 basis
points yesterday. Italian bonds yielded 480 basis points more
than equivalent German securities, compared with 517 basis
points yesterday. The euro gained 0.2 percent to $1.2738.  Austerity Measures  Rajoy’s government announced 15 billion euros in tax
increases and budget cuts on Dec. 30, after saying that Spain’s
deficit would be around 8 percent of gross domestic product in
2011 rather than the 6 percent forecast by the previous
government. He may need as much as 40 billion euros in
additional measures to meet the target of a 4.4 percent gap this
year at a time when the country may already been in a recession.  “Spain is now in a more precarious position than a year
ago given the scale of its  budget deficit  and the deteriorating
economic outlook,” Spiro said.  Monti has adopted 20 billion euros of deficit cuts since
coming to power in November and has pledged another package of
measures this month to spur competition and growth in an economy
where the expansion has lagged behind the euro-region average
for more than a decade.  ‘Investor Anxiety’  The Spanish Treasury today also auctioned debt maturing in
April 2016 and December 2016, and those yields declined. Demand
for Spanish benchmark securities weakened compared with previous
auction. The bid-to-cover was 1.8 times, compared with 2.7 in
December when similar notes were sold.  Italy also sold today 3.5 billion euros of 136-day bills to
at 1.644 percent. The Treasury in  Rome  will also remain under
pressure at bond auctions “as long as Italy remains the focal
point for investor anxiety about the euro zone,” Spiro said.  Italy, with the euro region’s second-biggest debt at almost
1.9 trillion euros, faces more than 50 billion euros in bond
maturities in the first quarter, whereas Spanish bond
redemptions in the period are about 2 billion euros.  European leaders, who are striving to tamp down the debt
crisis that began in  Greece  in 2009 and infected Italy, Spain
and  France , are setting the stage for a European Union summit at
the end of the month that aims to on bolster jobs and growth.
Pressure is meanwhile growing to complete a Greek debt swap
agreed on in October that is needed to put a second rescue plan
in place and keep the euro area together.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  and French President
 Nicolas Sarkozy  are scheduled to travel to Rome on Jan. 20 for
joint talks with Monti, who heads the euro area’s third-largest
economy. Both have expressed support for Monti’s effort to cut
 Italy ’s debt. Sarkozy also visits Rajoy in Madrid on Jan. 16.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net . 