-- Splunk Said to Hire Morgan Stanley for IPO Valuing Startup at $1 Billion
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-01-12T17:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/splunk-said-to-hire-morgan-stanley-to-lead-software-maker-s-initial-offer.html
Splunk Inc. hired Morgan Stanley to
lead an initial public offering that may value the software
maker at about $1 billion, said people familiar with the matter.  JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of
America Corp. will also work on the IPO, said the people, who
declined to be named because talks are private. The filing for
Splunk, which plans to raise about $150 million, is imminent,
said the people.  Splunk’s programs collect and index data, helping companies
evaluate their performance. In July, San Francisco-based Splunk
named David Conte as chief financial officer, gaining an
executive with experience at a public company.  Paul Wilke, a spokesman for Splunk, declined to comment, as
did representatives at Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan, Credit Suisse
and Bank of America.  Morgan Stanley was picked to head Splunk’s sale after
leading nine U.S. Internet IPOs last year, more than any other
underwriter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The New
York-based bank garnered an estimated $1.3 billion of fees
working on initial offerings by Zynga Inc., Groupon Inc.,
LinkedIn Corp. and Yandex NV, Bloomberg data show.  Analyzing Data  Splunk was founded in 2004 by Erik Swan, Rob Das and
Michael Baum. It has won business by helping companies monitor
and analyze the data they produce to improve service, cut
operations costs and reduce security risks. Splunk has raised
$40 million from venture firms August Capital, JK&B Capital,
Ignition Partners and Sevin Rosen Funds. The company raised $25
million in 2007 to expand sales and marketing, build its
international operations and develop partnerships.  Revenue in the 12-month period ended Oct. 31 almost doubled
from a year earlier as Splunk added 350 new paid license
customers, including MetLife Inc. and Vodafone Group Plc, the
software maker said in November. Splunk said then that its
software is used by more than 3,200 companies in more than 75
countries.  Chief Executive Officer Godfrey Sullivan has run Splunk
since 2008. He previously led Hyperion Solutions Corp. and
helped sell the company for $3.3 billion to  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  in
2007. Sullivan replaced co-founder Baum, who is now a partner at
investment firm Rembrandt Venture Partners.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in New York at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  