-- Splunk Files to Raise Up to $125 Million in Software Maker’s Public Offer
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-01-12T23:06:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/splunk-files-to-raise-up-to-125-million-in-software-maker-s-public-offer.html
Splunk Inc., a maker of software
that helps companies analyze data, plans a $125 million initial
public offering.  The San Francisco-based company didn’t say how many shares
it will offer or at what price in a  filing  today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission. The stock will trade under
the symbol SPLK. Morgan Stanley is leading Splunk’s IPO, and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., Credit Suisse Group AG and Bank of America
Corp. will also work on the sale.  Splunk, which delivers its software through the Internet,
announced its offering plans after 19 Internet companies
generated $6.6 billion in U.S. IPOs last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In July, the company named David Conte as
chief financial officer, gaining an executive with experience at
a public company.  Chief Executive Officer Godfrey Sullivan has run Splunk
since 2008. He previously led Hyperion Solutions Corp. and
helped sell the company for $3.3 billion to Oracle Corp. in
2007.  Splunk has won business by helping companies monitor and
analyze the data they produce to improve service, cut operations
costs and reduce security risks. The software provider had more
than 3,300 customers as of Oct. 31, including Bank of America,
Zynga Inc. and Comcast Corp., it said.  Wider Net Loss  Revenue in the nine months through Oct. 31 jumped 79
percent to $77.8 million from a year earlier while the net loss
widened to $9.7 million from $2 million, Splunk’s filing showed.  Morgan Stanley led nine U.S. Internet IPOs last year, more
than any other underwriter, Bloomberg data show. The New York-
based bank garnered an estimated $1.3 billion of fees working on
initial offerings by Zynga, Groupon Inc., LinkedIn Corp. and
Yandex NV.  Separately, Cinco Resources Inc., the oil and natural gas
exploration and production company, said it plans to raise as
much as $173 million in a U.S. IPO led by Citigroup Inc. and
 Wells Fargo & Co . The stock will list on the Nasdaq Stock Market
under the symbol CINC, the company said in a regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  