-- European Stocks Are Little Changed Before Italy, Spain Sell Debt
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-01-12T08:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/stocks-fluctuate-before-spain-italy-debt-sales-u-s-index-futures-decline.html
European stocks were little changed
as Italy and  Spain  prepared for their first debt auctions this
year and after the  Federal Reserve  said America’s economy
improved last month. U.S. index futures and Asian shares fell.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  rose 1.7 percent after
saying it will eliminate jobs. Sulzer AG, the world’s second-
largest maker of pumps, added 2.1 percent after saying full-year
orders rose 14 percent.  Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  lost 5 percent
after announcing job cuts.   Delhaize Group SA (DELB) , the owner of Food
Lion supermarkets, tumbled 6.6 percent after saying it will
eliminate about 5,000 positions and its revenue may drop.  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index dropped less than 0.1 percent to
249.77 at 8:04 a.m. in  London . The March contract on the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index slipped 0.2 percent, while the MSCI
Asia Pacific Index retreated 0.3 percent.  The U.S. economic expansion improved last month across most
of the country, while hiring was limited and housing remained
stagnant, the Federal Reserve said in the first edition of its
Beige Book in 2012.  “The U.S. Beige Book from the Fed confirmed recent data,”
Jonathan Sudaria, a trader at London Capital Group, wrote.
“However, gains are to be limited ahead of a busy day for
economic data which could see traders diving from headline to
headline or stuck on the sidelines in analysis paralysis.”  Spain and  Italy  will sell as much as 17 billion euros
($21.5 billion) in debt today. Germany received more than double
the maximum bid target in a sale of notes yesterday.  Economic Reports  The Stoxx 600 has advanced 2.2 percent since the beginning
of this year as economic reports around the world added to
optimism the global economy can withstand the euro area’s debt
crisis.  Sales at U.S. retailers probably rose in December as
Americans bought discounted holiday items, giving the economy a
boost entering 2012, economists said before a report today.
Initial jobless claims rose to 375,000 last week from 372,000
the previous period, data from the Labor Department may show.  The  Bank of England  will keep its benchmark interest rate
at a record low today, according to all 53 economists in a
Bloomberg survey. The bank may refrain from adding to emergency
stimulus again as policy makers await new forecasts and the
economy showed some resilience, the survey showed. It will
announce the decisions at noon in London.  The  European Central Bank  will leave its key rate at 1
percent today, a separate survey shows, and ECB President Mario
Draghi will speak at 2:30 p.m. in Frankfurt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  