-- Stryker Biotech Bone-Drug Marketing Put Patients at Risk, Prosecutor Says
-- B y   J a n e l l e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-01-12T18:56:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/stryker-biotech-bone-drug-marketing-put-patients-at-risk-prosecutor-says.html
A unit of  Stryker Corp. (SYK) , the maker
of medical devices, and three former sales managers put patients
at risk by marketing an unapproved mixture of products for
strengthening human bone growth, a prosecutor said at the start
of a federal criminal trial in  Boston .  The U.S. has charged Hopkinton, Massachusetts-based Stryker
Biotech with misbranding and its sales force with conspiring to
defraud surgeons into combining the company’s OP-1 and OP-1
Putty with the bone filler Calstrux. Some patients suffered
adverse side effects and required more surgery, the U.S. says.  “That mixture was never studied clinically,” Assistant
U.S. Attorney Susan Winkler told the jury in her opening
statement today. “They did not know if it worked. They did not
know if it was safe, and they marketed it to doctors anyway.”  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  allowed the company
to supply its products under a narrow, provisional humanitarian
exemption. The company had no FDA approval for mixing in
Calstrux, which was later pulled from the market, the U.S. says.
Stryker Biotech tracked 63 adverse events in more than 10,000
procedures involving the bone mixture, according to a defense
attorney.  A former national  sales  representative, William Heppner of
 Illinois , and two regional managers, David Ard of  California ,
and Jeff Whitaker of  North Carolina , are accused of  wire fraud 
and conspiracy. If convicted, they could face as long as 20
years in prison.  ‘Tootsie Rolls’  Prosecutors claim Stryker sales reps promoted “recipes”
to surgeons and medical technicians involving mixing the OP-1
products with Calstrux and molding it into “cigars,” “Tootsie
Rolls” or “Vienna sausages.” Winkler showed the jury a small
jar of OP-1, saying it cost $5,000.  She said the sales representatives put “hundreds of
thousands” of dollars in their own pockets through the scheme
and faced firing if they didn’t meet performance goals.  “It’s the patients who were put at risk,” she said.
“Some of the patients suffered adverse events. Some were
serious,”  Brien T. O’Connor, Stryker Biotech’s attorney, told jurors
the company sought to help surgeons heal patients.  “Surgeons were not tricked,” he said. “They chose to use
it because it worked.”  He said the government has conceded there’s no proof the
bone mixture caused a small number of reactions logged by
hospitals as “adverse events,” including fevers. Seven people
required additional surgeries, according to prosecutors.  ‘Misguided Prosecution’  “The evidence will show this is a misguided prosecution
and a gross injustice to Stryker Biotech,” O’Connor told the
jury. Stryker will call as witnesses surgeons who used the OP-1
products on U.S. soldiers and top athletes, he said.  Attorneys for Heppner and Ard told the jury their clients
never intended to deceive anyone and wouldn’t have careers if
they lied to surgeons.  “The prosecution’s case is based on ‘throw a lot of stuff
up against the wall and hope something sticks,’” Heppner’s
attorney, Robert L. Ullman, said.  Ard’s attorney, Brent Gurney, said Stryker Biotech’s
products were safe. He displayed a chart showing that less than
1 percent of patients suffered any adverse events, of more than
10,000 surgeries involving the bone mix.  ‘Not a Shred’  “There’s not a shred of evidence Dave tried to lie, or
trick surgeons, the FDA or anybody else,” Gurney said.  An attorney for Whitaker will offer a statement tomorrow.  The trial, before U.S. District Judge George A. O’Toole
Jr., should last eight weeks. Mark Philip, who led Stryker
Biotech from 2004 to 2008, will face trial separately from the
company.  In 2010, Stryker Biotech paid a settlement of $1.35 million
to  Massachusetts  after the state attorney general claimed it
marketed products without regulatory approval and misled health-
care professionals.  The company also reached a $167,000 settlement with  Oregon 
over the marketing of its bone products.  The case is U.S. v. Stryker Biotech LLC, 09-cr-10330, U.S.
District Court, District of Massachusetts (Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janelle Lawrence in Boston at  jmlawrence@mac.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  