-- Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Said to Be the Front-Runner for RBS Aviation
-- B y   C a t h y   C h a n
-- 2012-01-12T11:41:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/sumitomo-mitsui-said-to-be-front-runner-for-rbs-aviation-unit.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc 
favors selling its aircraft-leasing division to  Sumitomo Mitsui
Financial Group Inc. (8316) , a person familiar with the process said.  Sumitomo Mitsui, Japan’s second-biggest bank by market
value, and rival bidder  China Development Bank Corp (SDBZ) . offered
about $7.3 billion to $7.5 billion for the unit, said the
person, who declined to be identified because the talks are
private. The Japanese lender is in the process of finalizing the
draft of its offer, the person said. No decision on an agreement
has been made.  RBS prefers Sumitomo Mitsui because of concerns about
whether state-owned  China Development Bank  can get government
approval for the purchase in a timely manner, the person said.
The Chinese government previously blocked plans by China
Development Bank, based in Beijing, to invest in  Citigroup Inc. (C) 
because of the U.S. lender’s mortgage-related losses, a person
with knowledge of the matter said in January 2008.  Wells Fargo & Co.  had also bid for the unit, according to
people with familiar with the process. RBS, Britain’s largest
publicly owned lender, has been seeking $7 billion to $8 billion
for the division.  Yuk Min Hui, a spokeswoman for RBS in  Hong Kong , declined
to comment on the talks, as did a spokesman for Tokyo-based
Sumitomo Mitsui who asked not to be identified. A spokesman for
China Development Bank could not be reached for comment.  RBS has sold or wound down more than 150 billion pounds
($230 billion) of assets as it continues to shrink following a
45.5 billion-pound government bailout triggered by the financial
crisis of 2008. A sale of the aviation unit for $7.5 billion
would be one of the lender’s largest recent disposals.  Lessors buy planes and then lease them to airlines for
monthly fees, seeking to profit from the residual value by
selling aircraft after about 15 years. RBS’s aviation business
is one of the biggest plane lessors after  General Electric Co. (GE) ’s
Gecas and AIG’s International Lease Finance Corp.  RBS Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  is reversing a
decade of expansion under former CEO  Fred Goodwin  that included
$140 billion of acquisitions and ended in 2008. Hester has cut
more than 30,000 jobs and reduced the bank’s assets by about 1
trillion pounds since he took the helm that year.  RBS is planning to sell or close its equities and corporate
finance units globally, shedding 3,500 jobs, the bank said
today. The cash equities, equity research, corporate broking as
well as mergers and acquisitions units may also be shut.  RBS is advising itself, alongside  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
Sumitomo Mitsui is being advised by Barclays Plc, and China
Development Bank is being advised by  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) , the person
with knowledge of the matter said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cathy Chan in Hong Kong at 
 kchan14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  