-- U.K. Won’t Prosecute Spies Over U.S. Torture Complicity Claims
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   T h o m a s   P e n n y
-- 2012-01-12T12:54:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/u-k-won-t-prosecute-spies-over-u-s-torture-complicity-claims.html
The U.K. won’t prosecute British
spies over allegations they were complicit in the torture of
Binyam Mohamed, a detainee held by U.S. officials.  Mohamed claimed the U.K. knew he and other detainees were
tortured by the U.S. and did nothing to prevent it. The U.K.
government in 2010 said it would pay money to a number of people
who were held by the U.S. at the military prison at Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, and alleged U.K. intelligence agents were complicit.  There is “insufficient evidence” to prove that any
British officials gave information to the U.S. authorities “at
a time when he or she knew, or ought to have known, that there
was a real or serious risk that Mr. Mohamed would be exposed to
ill treatment amounting to torture,” the U.K. Crown Prosecution
Service and  London ’s Metropolitan Police said in  a joint
statement  today.  In a related investigation, the police said they would
investigate recent allegations that suspects were sent to  Libya 
and mistreated there. The police force, also known as Scotland
Yard, received a complaint from a detainee in November about the
allegations and had another case subsequently referred to them.  The allegations are “so serious that it is in the public
interest for them to be investigated now rather than at the
conclusion of the detainee inquiry,” police said in the
statement. The prosecutors and police will set up a joint panel
to consider further allegations. The panel will also consider
reopening cases if they receive new evidence.  William Hague , the Foreign Secretary, said in November that
a public inquiry into whether Britain was involved in or knew
about the abuse of detainees would begin after the police
investigation concluded.  “The very making of these allegations undermined Britain’s
standing in the world as a country that upholds international
law and abhors torture,” Hague said at a speech in London on
Nov. 16. “Torture is unacceptable in any circumstances. It is
abhorrent, it is wrong, and Britain will never condone it.’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  