-- Deutsche Telekom, France Telecom Win ’Early Route’ to Faster U.K. Services
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B r o w n i n g
-- 2012-01-13T09:31:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/u-k-proposes-to-reserve-spectrum-for-hutchison-or-new-entrant.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  and  France
Telecom SA (FTE) ’s U.K. mobile-phone venture may get a head start in
high-speed mobile-phone services as the watchdog revised its
design of a 2.6 billion-pound ($4 billion) frequency auction.  Everything Everywhere, which has applied to regulators to
run faster services on its existing airwaves, has “an early
route” to high-speed mobile Internet with its current holding,
regulator Ofcom said yesterday as it announced proposals for an
upcoming spectrum auction.  British carriers are seeking access to more frequencies to
offer faster services and cope with surging data demand as users
watch films and surf the Web on smartphones including  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and handsets using  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android system.
Rolling out faster services early may help Everything Everywhere
to stem a decline in customers and steal a march on rivals
 Vodafone Group Plc (VOD)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF) .  “This is the most significant spectrum release in the U.K.
for many years,” Ofcom Chief Executive Ed Richards said. “The
U.K. benefits from being one of the most competitive mobile
phone markets in  Europe .”  Deutsche Telekom and France Telecom both rose as much as 1
percent in Frankfurt and Paris trading respectively. Vodafone
gained as much as 1.1 percent in London and Telefonica climbed
as much as 1.3 percent in  Madrid .  All the companies have been seeking access to the valuable
800 megahertz band of low-frequency spectrum that can travel
long distances with fewer expensive base stations. Vodafone,
based in Newbury,  England , and  Spain ’s  Telefonica (TEF)  are the only
operators in the U.K. to hold low-frequency airwaves.  In its revised proposals Ofcom said it won’t reserve
spectrum for Everything Everywhere, though it will probably
guarantee frequencies for  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13) ’s Three or a
new company to keep four operators in the U.K.  ‘Be Happy’  Ofcom emphasized that Everything Everywhere could roll out
the faster services, known as LTE, early, to compensate for the
loss of that guarantee, said  Matthew Howett , an analyst at
research firm Ovum in London.  “By saying you can get LTE over it, this is their way of
making them say you should be happy,” he said.  Everything Everywhere said yesterday Ofcom told the company
the application would be considered in the first quarter of
2012. The operator hasn’t been informed when it may receive a
license to run the services.  Vodafone welcomed Ofcom’s proposals which will “bring the
U.K. closer to a fair and open auction that will benefit the
wider economy and increase competition.” O2 didn’t return
several calls seeking comment.  Client Losses  Everything Everywhere said in October that third-quarter
sales dropped 4.3 percent as the venture continued to lose
clients amid a push to shift customers to long-term contracts.
The number of clients dropped 1.4 percent from the previous year
after the company lost 188,000 users in the second quarter.  The operator will still need to wait for handsets and
equipment for the new technology, which aren’t yet available,
Howett said.  The number of U.K. operators fell to four from five after
 France Telecom  and Deutsche Telekom in 2009 merged their British
units to form Everything Everywhere, the country’s largest
operator. The market may consolidate further without
intervention from the regulator, Three has said.  The next auction, now scheduled for the end of 2012 after
repeated delays, will sell frequencies equivalent to three-
quarters of the spectrum currently being used by the operators.  The auction has been delayed for more than two years as the
regulator faced legal challenges. Vodafone and O2 previously
opposed restrictions on the amount of low-frequency spectrum
that they could bid for.  The U.K. auction will follow the sale of low frequencies in
countries such as Sweden and  Germany , designed to enable
operators to roll out fourth-generation networks. The German
auction raised 4.4 billion euros from the disposal of airwaves
previously used to broadcast television services.  Based on the amounts spent in Sweden and Germany, the U.K.
auction may raise as much as 2.6 billion pounds, according to
 Analysys Mason , a research firm in Cambridge, U.K.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Browning in  London  at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Browning at 
 jbrowning9@bloomberg.net  