-- U.K. Factory Output Falls 0.2% in November
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-01-12T09:50:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/u-k-november-factory-output-falls-0-2-as-economy-weakens-1-.html
U.K.  manufacturing  production fell
for a second month in November as the weakening economy
curtailed demand for metals, wood and paper products.  Factory output fell 0.2 percent from October, when it fell
a revised 0.9 percent, the  Office for National Statistics  said
today in  London . The decline was in line with the median
forecast of 22 economists in a Bloomberg News  survey . Overall
industrial output, which includes mines, utilities and oil and
gas, fell 0.6 percent as warm weather hit energy demand.  Manufacturers’ prospects are worsening as the euro region
edges toward a recession and an austerity drive at home erodes
 consumer confidence . The German economy contracted in the fourth
quarter as the sovereign-debt crisis intensified and a slowdown
is under way in  China , casting doubt on government hopes that
exports and investment will keep the U.K. economy growing.  “Even a rebound in production in December will not be
sufficient to prevent the sector from having shrunk in the
fourth quarter of last year,” said Joost Beaumont, an economist
at ABN Amro Bank NV in Amsterdam. “We expect the U.K. economy
to contract modestly in the fourth quarter to first quarter
period, which is also likely to induce the  Bank of England  to
keep the printing press running.”  The pound fell as much as 0.1 percent against the dollar
before rebounding. It was trading at $1.5326 as of 9:49 a.m. in
London. The yield on the 2-year government bond rose 1 basis
point to 0.395 percent.  Warm Weather  Out of 13 manufacturing categories, seven fell on the month
and six rose, the statistics office said. The decline was led by
metals and metal products, wood and paper goods and chemicals.
The fall in  industrial production  was driven by a 2.2 percent
drop in mining and quarrying, led by oil and gas, while a 2.2
percent decline in electricity and gas generation reflected
unusually warm weather.  Factory output, which accounts for 10 percent of U.K. gross
domestic product, fell 0.9 percent in the three months through
November from the June-August period, the biggest decline since
August 2009. Industrial production, equal to 15 percent of  GDP (UKGRABIQ) ,
also fell 0.9 percent. In November, manufacturing fell 0.6
percent from a year earlier, the first annual decline since
January 2010, and industrial production was down 3.1 percent.  “Manufacturing is on course for a fourth quarter
contraction,”  Philip Shaw , an economist at Investec Securities
in London, said before the report. “Whether the economy as a
whole avoided a contraction depends critically on the service
sector. There is a real risk that the fourth quarter gross
domestic product figures will post a decline.”  Not Enough  The British Chambers of Commerce said this week its
measures of manufacturing export sales and orders fell to the
lowest since 2009 in the fourth quarter. With banks planning to
tighten lending terms, more stimulus from the Bank of England
may not be enough to revive growth, the lobby group said.  The Bank of England will likely maintain the target for its
asset purchases at 275 billion pounds ($426 billion) tomorrow as
policy makers wait for new forecasts, a survey of economists
shows.  Fenner Plc (FENR) , the world’s largest conveyor-belt maker,
acknowledged yesterday there is “uncertainty over the global
economic outlook” and said sales growth rates will slow.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  