-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Jan. 10 (Text)
-- B y   M i k e   S e b a n y
-- 2012-01-12T13:28:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-jan-10-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  For all but the southern states, it was another mild weather
week as drought conditions continued across much of the west,
north and east.  A broad expansion of dry conditions is depicted
over much of the West, from  Idaho  to  Colorado  to  California .
Improvements are seen in Texas and some nearby states as a
system late in the week brought some heavy precipitation over a
two-day period.  The West: Continued dry conditions are prompting introduction of
Moderate drought in the central plains of Washington and
northern  Oregon .  Seasonal precipitation totals are dismal, with
50 percent or less of normal for the last 90 days.  Very little
snowfall all across the western states is causing further
degradation in the Sierra  Nevada  to short-term Severe Drought,
as impacts to forage conditions in rangeland areas are
significant.  Wildland fire awareness is increasing in
California as well.  A large area of D0, Abnormally Dry, was
expanded over San Bernardino county, California, and Clark
county, Nevada. Bartow-Daggett area of California had its 10th
driest year on record in 2011, and Las Vegas and Mt. Charleston,
NV both ranked in the top 15 driest on record.  In the Great Basin and headwaters of the Colorado River, D0 is
introduced this week to reflect lack of snowfall thus far in the
typically wet season.  Ski resorts are suffering due to warm and
dry conditions, even though water supply reservoirs continue to
hold storage from the last wet year.  In the southwestern states, an impact line was drawn to separate
the short-term and long-term nature of drought between the
northern and southern states.  Northern Plains and Midwest: Record high temperatures in the 60s
in  South Dakota , Nebraska, and nearby areas were reported on
January 5. The warm streak continued over the weekend, and
snowfall remained absent.  An expansion of Abnormally Dry
conditions is shown in western South Dakota, near Wessington
Springs, SD in the east, and in southeastern Nebraska.  Warm
temperatures have increased natural water demand on the top soil
layers, resulting in reports of topsoil dryness although there
is moisture found deeper in the soil.  The mild temperatures
have not had much effect on winter wheat, but have led to
reduced hardiness in woody vegetation to survive the winter.  Southern and Central Plains: A couple of strong systems plowed
through Texas, Oklahoma and  Louisiana  to bring relief during
this U.S. Drought Monitor period.  One-category improvements
were made across much of  Texas , and impact lines were shifted to
better reflect the short- and long-term nature of drought in the
state.  Snowfall totals upwards of more than ten inches were
reported in panhandle region of Texas.  As much as three or more
inches of rain fell along the Gulf coast from Galveston, TX to
Lake Charles, LA, over a two-day period earlier this week.  This
warranted removal of Exceptional drought in southwestern
Louisiana, and one-category improvements are depicted in this
broad area.  Low reservoir levels and other impacts remain,
however, and an Extreme Drought situation continues.  One area of worsening conditions is shown in Osage county in
northeastern  Oklahoma , as a result of slow reservoir response to
recent precipitation in the area.  The Southeast and Mid-Atlantic: Drought continues its hold on
the Southeastern states, as Moderate drought reaches further
into  Florida  this week.  The Gulf coast around Tampa and the
northern counties around Gainesville are experiencing
significant shortages of precipitation for this time of year.
Gainesville has recorded their third driest 365 day period on
record, with a mere 32.40 inches of rain.    In South Carolina,
a one-category degradation to D2 and D3 was made from south
central South Carolina to the coast.   North Carolina  remains wet
in the west and dry in the east, as Abnormally Dry conditions
are expanding to the central and northern reaches of the state,
and further north into  Virginia  and the Delmarva peninsula.
Widespread development of dry conditions are becoming apparent
in the region.  Alaska ,  Hawaii  and Puerto Rico: No changes were made in Alaska,
as they are experiencing heavy snow across much of the state
this winter. Record snowfalls over the last couple of weeks have
staved off the development of any dry conditions.  In Hawaii, an expansion of D0 is depicted this week on the
southwestern slopes of Kauai.  There are no changes made to the map of Puerto Rico.  Looking Ahead: A wetter pattern is welcome in the northern
states where the lack of rain and snow has begun to take its
toll.  For the next U.S. Drought Monitor period, the outlooks
show a potential for above normal precipitation in the northern
states, from the Pacific Northwest to the Great Lakes and
Midwest.  Below normal precipitation for the week is forecast in
the southern states, primarily from  Arizona  to Texas and north
to Nebraska, and across the southern tip of Florida. This could
exacerbate, or at least maintain, much of the drought in that
region.  Temperatures from  Washington  state to  Michigan  are
projected to be below normal.  Warmer than average conditions
will likely prevail across much of the rest of the nation, from
Nevada to  Maine  and southward to the Gulf coast.  Alaska will be
colder than normal over the next several days, with below normal
precipitation likely.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Sebany in Washington at 
 msebany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  