-- U.S. Probes Video Said to Show Marines Urinating on Afghan Taliban Bodies
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-01-12T19:59:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/u-s-probes-video-said-to-show-marines-urinating-on-afghan-taliban-bodies.html
The U.S. military is investigating
who was behind a video said to show four Marines urinating on
the corpses of Taliban fighters in  Afghanistan , according to
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  The behavior depicted in  the video  is “utterly
deplorable” and “those found to have engaged in such conduct
will be held accountable to the fullest extent,” Panetta said
in an e-mailed statement. The video, which surfaced on the
Internet yesterday, hasn’t been authenticated, according to a
Marine Corps statement.  The Taliban said on Jan. 3 that it planned to open an
office in Qatar for peace talks with the U.S. and its allies,
marking the militant group’s first public step toward
negotiations to end the decade-long war in Afghanistan. While a
Taliban spokesman said the video won’t disrupt plans for
negotiations, he portrayed it as typical American behavior.  “This video will not affect our negotiation in the
future,”  Zabihullah Mujahed , the spokesman, said in a phone
interview from an undisclosed location. “Americans have always
committed bigger crimes in which they dishonored Taliban and
civilians. We’ve seen this video and we consider this the most
disrespectful, inhuman and immoral act.”  The negotiations will remain focused on prisoner exchanges,
he said. In a statement today, the Taliban said the talks don’t
“mean a surrender from jihad” or acceptance of the Afghan
constitution.  The video appears to show four Marines urinating on three
Afghan corpses that are lying on the ground. An American voice
can be heard saying, “Have a great day, buddy,” while another
says, “He likes his shower.”  Call to Karzai  Afghan President  Hamid Karzai ’s press office urged the U.S.
military in a statement to apply “the most severe punishment”
if Marines are found to have desecrated bodies.  Panetta told Karzai in a phone call today that the video
“does not reflect the standards or values American troops are
sworn to uphold,” Pentagon spokesman  George Little  said in a
statement.  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said the U.S. will
continue its support for talks with the Taliban and expressed
her “total dismay” about the video. Clinton sent her top envoy
to Afghanistan,  Marc Grossman , to meet with Karzai next week to
ensure his support.  “We will continue to support efforts that will be Afghan-
led and Afghan-owned to pursue the possibility of reconciliation
and peace,” Clinton said today at the State Department.  The U.S. has said it will hand over security
responsibilities to the Afghan government in 2014.  ‘No Longer Serving’  The  International Security Assistance Force , the umbrella
group of U.S and allied forces in Afghanistan, issued a
statement condemning the video and saying the Americans depicted
in it “apparently are no longer serving in Afghanistan.”  U.S. military officials think that the video will prove to
be valid,  CNN  said yesterday, citing Pentagon officials. The
people in the video are carrying .30-caliber sniper rifles and
one is wearing a helmet used by Marine snipers, CNN said, citing
a senior Marine Corps official.  General James Amos, the Marine Corps commandant, yesterday
requested an investigation by the Naval Criminal Investigative
Service, along with an internal probe by a Marine general
officer and senior attorney.  “Rest assured that the institution of the Marine Corps
will not rest until the allegations and the events surrounding
them have been resolved,” Amos said in a written statement.  ‘So Sad’  Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , a former prisoner of war in
 Vietnam  and the senior Republican on the Senate Armed Services
Committee, said the video “does great damage” and those who
participated in it should be punished.  “It makes me so sad,” McCain said on the “CBS This
Morning” program.  The Washington-based Council on American-Islamic Relations
condemned the video in a letter to Panetta.  “If verified as authentic, the video shows behavior that
is totally unbecoming of American military personnel and that
could ultimately endanger other soldiers and civilians,” said
Nihad Awad, the council’s national executive director, in the
letter.  The potential for damage to the U.S.’s standing in
Afghanistan was reflected in comments today from an Afghan
tribal elder.  “Both Americans and Taliban are not human,” Zargul Nazari
said in a telephone interview from Kabul. “Taliban cut our
people’s hands and nose, and Americans urinate on their dead
bodies. Do you think peace can come through urinating on the
dead bodies?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  