-- U.S. Mint Eagle Gold Coins May Pace Silver Sales, Dealer Says
-- B y   M a r i a   K o l e s n i k o v a
-- 2012-01-12T07:49:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/u-s-mint-eagle-gold-coins-may-pace-silver-sales-dealer-says.html
The  U.S. Mint ’s sales of American
Eagle gold coins may keep pace with silver coins later this
year, according to Dillon Gage Metals, one of 11 dealers
authorized to purchase silver coins in the U.S. directly from
the mint.  Following are comments from Terry Hanlon, president of the
Addison, Texas-based company. He commented in a phone interview
Jan. 10.  On silver and gold coins sales:  “Silver always gets more attention than gold at the
beginning of the year. Those are coins that have had problems
with allocations, more so than gold. The U.S. Mint has always
geared up to provide enough gold.  ‘‘As the year goes on, the gold sales will increase and
keep up with the pace of silver Eagles more. There aren’t that
many people ‘buying the date’ at the beginning of the year in
gold, as they do with silver, and if they do, they do this in
fractionals.  ‘‘Another part is affordability: people really feel they
are getting more bang for the buck and it provides an
opportunity for a lot of smaller investors to get into precious
metals.’’  On seasonality and availability of silver coins:  ‘‘Every year the demand for newly minted Eagles is a big
target. It starts with collectors, and then it also leads into
the investors that also want to own physical metal. And they’ve
got last year behind them, they know where they stand
financially, whether they can buy more. Dealers are more apt to
take whatever inventory they can because they know they’ll move
this product.  ‘‘Many times the U.S. Mint has coins left with the old
dates, and they force an allocation of buying some percentage of
the new year’s purchase along with the old dates. It didn’t
happen to the American Eagles this year, so it gave dealers the
freedom to buy as many of the 2012 dates as they wanted. The
dealers felt some freedom they haven’t felt in a while, and they
jumped on as well. ‘Them’ being us as well.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Kolesnikova in London at 
 mkolesnikova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  