-- U.S. Stocks Rise Amid Lower Borrowing Costs at Europe Auctions
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-01-12T22:18:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/u-s-stock-index-futures-advance-after-successful-spanish-auction-of-bonds.html
U.S. stocks rose, sending the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index higher for a fourth day, as a drop
in borrowing costs at auctions in Europe overshadowed
disappointing American jobless claims and retail sales data.  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  and Caterpillar Inc. rallied at least 2.3
percent, pacing gains among the biggest companies.  Target Corp. (TGT) 
added 1.6 percent as the discount retailer said it will buy back
as much as $5 billion of its shares. Energy companies slumped as
oil sank and  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  lost 2.6 percent after reporting
fourth-quarter profit was “significantly below” the previous
period.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  dropped 1.2 percent.  The S&P 500 rose 0.2 percent to 1,295.50 at 4 p.m. New York
time, erasing a decline of as much as 0.5 percent. The benchmark
gauge for American equities gained 1.4 percent in  four days  to
the highest since July 28. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average 
added 21.57 points, or 0.2 percent, to 12,471.02 today.  “It’s a four-day rally, but a fairly miserable carry
through,” Bruce McCain, who helps oversee more than $20 billion
as chief investment strategist at the private-banking unit of
KeyCorp in  Cleveland , said in a telephone interview. “There’s
improved optimism yet people still don’t want to take risk. We
have become more sanguine about the problems in Europe and they
still have a mess. That has the potential to take us by surprise
and it’s not going to be a good surprise.”  The four-day rally in the  S&P 500  extended this year’s
advance to 3 percent. Commodity, financial and industrial
companies had the  biggest gains  among 10 groups in 2012, adding
at least 5.8 percent. Utility and telephone providers, which are
least-tied to economic growth, were the worst performers.  Debt Auctions  American stocks joined a global rally as  Spain  sold 10
billion euros ($13 billion) of bonds, twice the target for the
sale, while Italy sold 12 billion euros of bills, easing
concerns the countries would struggle to finance their debts.
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  said there are
signs the economy is stabilizing. Equities fell earlier as  sales 
at U.S. retailers rose less than projected in December and
jobless claims increased more than forecast last week.  “There are significant cross currents,” Michael Mullaney,
who helps manage $9.5 billion at Fiduciary Trust in  Boston , said
in a telephone interview. “Lower borrowing costs will help in
the refinancing that’s due in the next few months in the
euroland in general. Still, they’ve got to spur growth to get
things going. In the U.S., today’s economic numbers were weaker
than anticipated. The market has had a nice run here. Sentiment
has gotten more bullish, which makes me nervous.”  Alcoa,  Caterpillar (CAT)   Within the biggest companies, Alcoa, the largest U.S.
aluminum producer, climbed 3.1 percent to $9.93. Caterpillar,
the world’s largest construction and mining-equipment maker,
gained 2.3 percent to $101.94.  Target added 1.6 percent to $49.81. Repurchases under the
new authorization will start after the current $10 billion
program ends early this year. Target expects to complete the new
$5 billion authorization in the next two to three years.  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  rallied 3.6 percent to $32.56. The
European Union removed tariffs against the U.S. on a chemical
used in paints and paper coatings after U.K. producer Ineos
Oxide Ltd. withdrew a complaint about price undercutting. The
policy reversal ends duties as high as 13.8 percent on U.S.
exporters including Dow Chemical for allegedly having sold vinyl
acetate in the EU below cost, a practice known as  dumping .  CA Inc. (CA)  rose 4.2 percent to $21.82. Hedge fund Taconic
Capital Advisors LP said it acquired a 5.1 percent stake in the
maker of software for  mainframe computers  and is in talks with
management to boost returns.  Energy Shares  Energy companies in the S&P 500 slid 0.9 percent as a
group. Oil dropped the most in two weeks after a proposed
European Union embargo of Iranian oil imports was said likely to
be delayed for six months.  Chevron sank 2.6 percent, the most in the Dow, to $104.97.
The company’s U.S. refineries processed 18 percent less crude
during October and November than during the final three months
of 2010 because of maintenance work that idled part of a
California refinery, Chevron said.  Banks swung between gains and losses ahead of  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s results tomorrow. The New York-based company is
projected to report a record $18.5 billion in 2011 earnings when
adjusted for one-time items, a 6 percent increase, according to
a survey of analysts by Bloomberg. Profit at San Francisco-based
 Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  is  estimated  to have jumped more than four
times as much, to an all-time high of $15.3 billion.  JPMorgan added 0.5 percent to $36.85. Wells Fargo lost less
than 0.1 percent to $29.61.  Bank of America  slumped 1.2 percent
to $6.79, after rallying 11 percent in three days.  Optimism Rises  The 12 percent  rally  in the S&P 500 since Nov. 25 has
pushed optimism to a level last seen when the U.S. stock market
began its biggest retreat since 2009.  The proportion of investment newsletter writers who are
optimistic on equities rose to 51.1 percent this week, the
highest since May, according to a report from New Rochelle, New
York-based Investors Intelligence yesterday. Last year’s peak in
bullishness was just before the market’s top in April.  Some analysts say sentiment serves as a contrary indicator
given that optimistic investors have already purchased shares,
leaving less money to help drive prices higher. The  S&P 500  has
climbed in four out of the past six weeks as data on
manufacturing and employment raised optimism the world’s largest
economy will weather  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  “Sentiment is getting more extreme,” Arthur Huprich, an
analyst with Raymond James & Associates Inc., wrote in a note
yesterday. “Trading will remain choppy, especially as
overhanging selling pressure looms.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  