-- UN Says Boko Haram Must Be Held Accountable for Violence
-- B y   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-01-12T14:15:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/un-says-boko-haram-must-be-held-accountable-for-violence.html
Nigerian authorities must hold
Islamic militants accountable for “spiraling” violence as they
try to pit the country’s Muslims and Christians against each
other, the  United Nations  said today.  “One day it is a church congregation that is being
targeted, the next day it is a mosque, and the day after that it
is some secular target,” UN High Commissioner for Human Rights
Navi Pillay said today in a  statement  on the agency’s website.
“I urge all Nigeria’s leaders to avoid falling into the trap of
calling for, or sanctioning, retaliation or making other
provocative statements.”  More than 85 people have died in bomb and gun attacks since
Christmas Day on churches in Abuja, the capital, and in the
north that the authorities blame on the Boko Haram group, which
draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement. Boko
Haram, which means “Western education is a sin,” says it’s
fighting to establish sharia law across the entire country.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer and sub-Saharan Africa’s
second-biggest economy, is roughly split between a mainly Muslim
north and a predominantly Christian south. Boko Haram on Jan. 2
gave Christians three days to leave the north.  Boko Haram Video  Abubakar Shekau, the leader of the group, in a 15 minute
 video  posted on Youtube yesterday, claimed responsibility for
recent attacks targeting Christians, accusing Nigerian President
 Goodluck Jonathan  of killing Muslims and vowed further attacks.
The group will continue to attack Christians in the north of the
country if they didn’t heed the ultimatum to leave, he said.  “The fact that people are already leaving some areas where
they are in a minority, out of fear of attacks by the majority,
shows just how dangerous this is becoming for the country as a
whole,” Pillay said today.  Christians are not leaving the north, although some are
relocating from areas that have had more violent attacks to
other safer areas within the north, Saidu Dogo, secretary of the
Christian Association of  Nigeria  in 19 northern states, said
today by phone from Kaduna, the capital of the northern Kaduna
state.  “Nobody is leaving the north,” Dogo said. “How do you
expect Christians who are born and living in the north to just
leave?”  Nigerian Christians will work out means of defending
themselves, Ayo Oritsejafor, president of the Christian
Association of Nigeria, told reporters in Abuja on Jan. 7.  Jonathan declared a state of emergency in parts of four
states in Nigeria’s northeast region on Dec. 31 and set up a
special counter-terrorism unit within the armed forces after at
least 43 people died and 73 were wounded in a Christmas Day
bombing of a church near Abuja. Islamic militants pose a worse
threat to the country than the 1967-1970 civil war, Jonathan
said on Jan. 8.  Authorities must respect human rights and avoid excessive
use of force “to avoid making a bad situation even worse,”
Pillay said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  