-- Hungary Economy Shows Strength as Cabinet Seeks Bailout Loan, Orban Says
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n
-- 2012-01-12T13:00:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/hungary-economy-shows-strength-as-cabinet-seeks-bailout-loan-orban-says.html
Hungary ’s economy has proved “far
stronger than many suggested” and the government plans to
maintain market financing after clinching an  International
Monetary Fund  loan, Prime Minister  Viktor Orban  said.  Hungary is “ready to negotiate all the points” for a loan
agreement and is awaiting “convincing” arguments from the
European Union on any objections to laws and policy, Orban told
foreign correspondents in Budapest today.  “Our general approach is that we’re ready to negotiate all
the points,” Orban said during an hour-long conversation in
Parliament. “What we need is not political opinion, but
arguments.”  Hungary is trying to revive bailout talks with the EU and
the  International Monetary Fund , which suspended negotiations
last month on concern new central bank legislation violates
monetary-policy independence.  Fitch Ratings  on Jan. 6 followed
Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  in downgrading
Hungary’s sovereign-credit grade to junk.  The forint traded at its strongest level against the euro
in two weeks today on speculation that Hungary will reach a
bailout agreement. The currency rose 1.5 percent today to trade
at 306.95 per euro at 1:15 p.m. in Budapest. It has weakened 12
percent in the past six months, the worst performance among more
than 170 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  ‘More Optimistic’  The country sold 44 billion forint ($181 million) of debt
today, 11 billion forint more than targeted, in notes maturing
in 2014, 2017 and 2022 at a biweekly sale, according to data
from the Debt Management Agency on Bloomberg. The yield on the
2022 securities was 9.38 percent, compared with 9.70 percent at
the last sale Dec. 29.  “Now the markets are more optimistic,” Orban said. “The
fundamentals of the Hungarian economy proved to be far stronger
than many suggested or appreciated or perceived.”  Hungary wants to continue financing itself from the market
after agreeing on a loan, Orban said. That would allow the
government to shift its focus from financing issues to plans to
boost growth, the premier said.  “My best case scenario is that in one month the main
subject related to the Hungarian economy is not how to finance
the economy but how successful the growth plan could be,” Orban
said.  Tamas Fellegi, Orban’s chief negotiator on a bailout, will
meet IMF Managing Director Christine Lagarde today in
 Washington . Fellegi, along with central bank President Andras Simor, plans to meet European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  next week.  EU Standoff  The EU escalated its standoff with Hungary yesterday,
keeping bailout talks on hold and threatening to cut subsidies
as punishment for flouting the bloc’s rules on central-bank
independence and deficit overruns.  The European Commission said it may take Hungary to court
for possibly violating EU laws on the independence of the
central bank, the judiciary and the data protection authority,
the trading bloc’s executive said yesterday in separate
statements.  Hungary may also face the suspension of so-called cohesion
funds from next year if it fails to correct its budget policies
which were of an “unsustainable nature,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters
yesterday. He said the commission will press ahead with its so-
called excessive deficit procedure against Hungary.  Budget Outlook  Hungary’s budget gap without one-time measures reached 252
percent of the government’s initial year-end target, the  Economy
Ministry  said on Jan. 9. The government can meet its deficit
goal of 2.94 percent of gross domestic product for 2011 because
of revenue from the effective nationalization of private pension
funds and extraordinary industry taxes, the ministry said.  Hungary plans to keep its deficit below 3 percent of GDP
this year and in 2013, Orban said. The European Commission, in a
Nov. 10 report, reduced its estimate for Hungary’s 2012 deficit
to 2.8 percent of GDP from 3.3 percent. Yesterday, it said
Hungary’s shortfall would be below 3 percent this year “only
thanks to one-off revenues” and may reach 3.25 percent in 2013.  “In 2012, without any extraordinary measures, the  budget
deficit  will be” for “the first time since joining the EU
below 3 percent,” Orban said. “The Commission did not deny
that fact, which is promising, so I think we are very close to
each other, we agree on 2012 and even on 2013.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  