-- Huntsman Heads South With Wall Street Plan Tougher Than Obama
-- B y   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-01-12T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/huntsman-heads-south-with-wall-street-plan-tougher-than-obama.html
Jon Huntsman Jr.’s third-place
finish in New Hampshire gives the former Utah governor at least
a little more time to pitch voters on his plan to shrink the
biggest U.S. banks.  Huntsman is campaigning for the Jan. 21 Republican primary
in South Carolina, a state with a conservative base that
President  Barack Obama  lost by almost nine points in 2008 to
Republican Senator  John McCain . Huntsman’s Wall Street plan
would crack down harder on the banks than some parts of the
Dodd-Frank Act Obama pushed through Congress in 2010.  “We need a president who is willing to stand up to those
six banks who combined have assets that are equal to two-thirds
of our nation’s GDP,” Huntsman said yesterday at an event at
the University of South Carolina in Columbia, referring to
institutions including  Bank of America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)   The Republicans vying to challenge Obama in the general
election have all advocated repealing Dodd-Frank, an idea that
along with eliminating Obama’s health care plan often elicits
applause from Republican audiences. The law among other things
created a regulatory structure for over-the-counter derivatives,
set new restrictions for  Wall Street  trading desks and
established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau.  Huntsman, 51, differs from his opponents in his pledge to
establish new regulations -- which include capping bank size and
imposing a fee on firms deemed too large -- before pushing for
Congress to repeal the law.  ‘Populist Idea’  His proposal goes further to limit bank size than the Obama
administration was willing to go, said former Senator Edward Kaufman, a Delaware Democrat who led a failed push for a similar
plan during the congressional debate over Dodd-Frank.  Huntsman would impose a cap on size and leverage, impose
added fees and higher deposit insurance premiums on large banks
and set  capital requirements  “far beyond what is envisioned”
in the current international Basel agreement, according to the
proposal posted on his campaign website.  “This obviously is a populist idea that one normally
wouldn’t associate with a Republican,” said  Robert Litan , a
vice president of research and policy at the  Kansas City ,
Missouri-based Kauffman Foundation. Litan said the idea “would
have a lot of unintended and unfavorable consequences” for U.S.
banks trying to compete globally.  Other policymakers and academics have called for the
breakup of the largest financial institutions, including  Simon Johnson , an economics professor at the  Massachusetts Institute
of Technology , and Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas President
Richard Fisher.  ‘Systemic Risk’  “To the extent that banks create a systemic risk, I think
it makes sense that they be taxed for creating it,” Thomas Cooley, an economics professor at  New York University  who isn’t
advising the campaign, said of Huntsman’s proposal in a phone
interview.  Huntsman, who polled nationally in the single digits for
months before his 17 percent showing in  New Hampshire  Jan. 10,
said he’s relying on that momentum to help raise money for the
next stage of his campaign.  The banking industry, which has weighed in heavily for
front-runner  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor,
hasn’t been a major source of funds for Huntsman. The campaign,
which was $3 million in debt in September, according to the most
recent data available, received only $33,750 from employees or
political action committees of commercial banks, according to
the  Center for Responsive Politics . Romney received $542,250
from commercial banks and their employees over that same period.  ‘That’s Okay’  “I’m not going to get a whole lot in contributions from
Wall Street or the bankers,” Huntsman said with a laugh at
yesterday’s town hall. “But that’s okay.”  New Hampshire exit polls showed Huntsman’s base of support
was largely outside the  Republican Party . Among voters
unaffiliated with political parties who took part in the
primary, 47 percent of all who voted, 23 percent backed
Huntsman, compared with 11 percent of Republicans, according to
data compiled by  CNN .  Huntsman was in the low single-digits in a  poll  taken Jan.
5-7 of  South Carolina  Republicans by Public Policy Polling. That
same poll showed Huntsman trailing Stephen Colbert, a comedian
who isn’t actually in the race.  ‘Politically Salient’  While he may take a hit in campaign fundraising, cracking
down on Wall Street may play well with voters in southern states
who have “always been suspicious of Wall Street banks,”
Kaufman, the former Delaware senator, said.  “I have thought for a long time that it is not just a very
important idea, but I also think it’s politically salient to
Republicans and Democrats,” he said.  Huntsman’s plan wouldn’t force a breakup of the banks or
represent an overreach of regulatory power, said C. Boyden Gray,
a policy adviser to Huntsman and the former White House counsel
to President  George H.W. Bush . Instead it would give the
institutions incentives to shrink themselves, while at the same
time eliminating any subsidy the largest banks receive in the
form of lower cost-of-capital due to any implied guarantee that
the government would bail them out in a crisis.  “I don’t think dealing with too-big-to-fail, with all of
the dangers it poses and all of the subsidies it encompasses, is
an anti-conservative, anti-free market idea,” Gray said in a
phone interview.  Obama Opposition  Huntsman’s plan resurrects, at least in part, the
Democratic proposal pushed in 2010 by Kaufman and Senator
Sherrod Brown, an Ohio Democrat, which would have put a cap on
banks’ non-deposit liabilities as a percentage of gross domestic
product, as well as a cap on insured deposits held by individual
banks. The Obama administration opposed the idea and the Senate
rejected it.  The Clearing House Association, an industry group, in
November circulated a 45-page study outlining the economic
benefits large banks provide to the economy.  “Because of their scope across multiple businesses, their
geographic penetration and reach and their balance-sheet size,
large banks play a particularly important role in helping
companies and asset managers to operate internationally and to
access the  capital markets ,” Paul Saltzman, the president of
the group, wrote in a Nov. 7  letter  sent with a copy of the
study to Federal Reserve Governor  Daniel Tarullo .  Winding Down Firms  Dodd-Frank includes new tools for regulators to seize,
wind-down and resolve firms whose failure may pose a threat to
the entire economy. House and Senate Republicans opposed the
resolution authority, saying it gave regulators the authority to
arbitrarily seize firms and use taxpayer money during the
resolution process.  Supporters of the law contend that the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp., which was given the authority to wind-down
failing firms, has established a system and is developing the
expertise to handle the failure of a systemically risky firm
after years of resolving hundreds of smaller  bank failures .  The law also requires any taxpayer dollars used in the
process to be repaid by the largest financial firms after the
failure.  The new system doesn’t do enough, Huntsman told the crowd
in South Carolina yesterday. He said he preferred the large
banks of the 1990s, which were a fraction of the asset size of
the current six largest firms.  “If they got sick, they could fail and they would not take
us down,” Huntsman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Phil Mattingly in  Washington  at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lawrence Roberts at 
 lroberts13@bloomberg.net  