-- Turkey Yields Fall on Optimism Over Borrowing, European Auctions
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-12T15:17:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/turkey-yields-fall-on-optimism-over-borrowing-european-auctions.html
Turkish  yields  plunged as successful
bond auctions in  Spain , Italy and  Hungary  eased concern among
investors about the cost to the Turkish Treasury of repaying
17.8 billion liras ($9.6 billion) of debt this month, the
biggest amount in a year.  Yields on two-year debt tracked by  Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS (TEBNK) 
fell 23 basis points, or 0.23 percentage points, to 11.00
percent at 4:40 p.m. in Istanbul, the biggest drop since Nov.
30. The lira gained 0.4 percent to 1.8486 per dollar, heading
for its lowest in more than a month.  European stocks rose and the euro strengthened as Spain
sold almost double the amount planned and Italy’s borrowing
costs fell at debt sales today. Spain sold 9.98 billion euros
($12.7 billion) of notes, compared with a target of as much as 5
billion euros, while the yield on  Italy ’s one-year bills fell to
2.735 percent. Hungary sold 44 billion forint ($181 million) of
debt, 11 billion forint more than targeted.  “The central bank has decreased the average funding cost
by 300 basis points in three days and the lira is holding
well,” Erkin Isik, fixed income strategist at Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi, said in response to e-mailed questions. “This shows
that there is interest in bonds and the much-feared auction
calendar that will start next week will be less of a problem.”  The central bank is reducing banks’ borrowing costs,
funding them with 6 billion liras at the lowest rate of 5.75
percent for a third day today. The bank had lent at rates of
between 10.6 percent and 12.5 percent since Dec. 29, pushing up
bond yields and squeezing liquidity, as it sought to support the
lira and tame inflation.  “Risk appetite towards emerging-market currencies has
gained significantly on the back of the better-than-expected
Spanish bond auction,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments.  The Treasury will offer March 2013 bonds and January 2018
floating rate notes on Jan. 17, repaying 4 billion liras of debt
to investors the next day. It will hold a total of six auctions
this month to borrow 14.4 billion liras in domestic debt,
according to a borrowing program published on Dec. 30.
The central bank sold $50 million for liras today, adding to its
sales of at least $15 billion since August to support the lira,
which fell 18 percent in the biggest depreciation among all
 emerging markets  last year.  “We see foreign investors are buying Turkish bonds and
this started at the beginning of the week at longer maturity
bonds and this has spread to other bonds today,” Tufan Comert,
a strategist at Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments. The bond purchases are helping the lira appreciate, he
said, adding that it may appreciate to 1.83 per dollar today.  The lira advanced 2.3 percent this year, leading all
emerging market currencies in  Europe , the Middle East and
 Africa , data compiled by Bloomberg showed.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  