-- Turkish Lira Rises to One-Month High After European Auctions
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 5 3 8 8 1 3 3 ]   P e t e r   B r a n t o n   [ ]
-- 2012-01-12T13:42:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/turkish-lira-rises-to-one-month-high-after-european-auctions.html
The lira gained for a fifth day,
reaching its strongest level in a month, after successful bond
auctions in  Spain , Italy and Hungary spurred appetite for buying
emerging-market assets.  Turkey’s currency advanced 0.5 percent to 1.8451 versus the
dollar at 2:57 p.m. in Istanbul, the highest intraday level
since Dec. 9. The lira has gained 2.5 percent this year, leading
all emerging market currencies in  Europe , the  Middle East  and
Africa, as the Turkish central bank sold dollars and tightened
liquidity to prop up the currency and tame inflation, which hit
a three-year high in December.  European stocks rose and the euro strengthened as Spain
sold almost double the amount planned and Italy’s borrowing
costs fell at debt sales today. Spain sold 9.98 billion euros
($12.7 billion) of notes, compared with a target of as much as 5
billion euros, while the yield on  Italy ’s one-year bills fell to
2.735 percent. Hungary sold 44 billion forint ($181 million) of
debt, 11 billion forint more than targeted.  “Risk appetite towards emerging-market currencies has
gained significantly on the back of the better-than-expected
Spanish bond auction,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments.  Yields (BENCH)  on two-year Turkish debt dropped 47 basis points, or
0.47 percentage points, to 10.76 percent, the biggest decline
since November, a Turk Ekonomi Bankasi index of the securities
showed, after the central bank provided funding at its lower
one-week repo rate of 5.75 percent for a third day.  The Turkish central bank sold $50 million for liras today,
adding to its sales of at least $15 billion since August to
support the lira, which fell 18 percent in the biggest
depreciation among all  emerging markets  last year.  “We see foreign investors are buying Turkish bonds and
this started at the beginning of the week at longer maturity
bonds and this has spread to other bonds today,” Tufan Comert,
a strategist at Garanti Securities in Istanbul, said in e-mailed
comments.  The lira is appreciating because of buying in bonds, Comert
said. 