-- Vale January Southern Brazil Iron-Ore Output Cut 20%
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a
-- 2012-01-12T20:06:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/vale-rain-losses-represent-20-of-january-output-martins-says.html
Vale SA (VALE3) , the world’s largest iron-
ore producer, will lose about 20 percent of its January output
of iron-ore in southern Brazil because of rains in three of the
country’s states.  “We are in Noah’s Ark; the rains have to stop for us to go
down” to the mines, Jose Carlos Martins, the company’s head of
ferrous and strategy, told reporters today on a conference call.
More rains are forecast for next week, Martins said.  Vale yesterday declared force majeure, a legal clause that
allows companies to miss deliveries, on iron-ore shipments and
said it will lose 2 million metric tons of the steel-making
ingredient because of the rains in southeastern  Brazil , where
the company has 15 mines. The downpours are the largest since at
least 1910, Martin said today.  The impact on Vale’s quarterly earnings are likely to be
“insignificant,” Martins said on today’s call. The company
cannot redirect shipments from other mines to its clients
because “it’s working at capacity limits,” he said.  Floods and landslides in the southeastern states of  Minas
Gerais , Rio de Janeiro and Espirito Santo caused by rains have
killed at least 30 people and left more than 5,000 homeless
since the beginning of the year.  Vale’s main concern is for European clients, who are more
dependent than Asian ones on the company’s iron-ore shipments,
Martins said. Asian clients are also protected by the fact that
they are now receiving shipments sent 45 days ago, he said.  Vale shares  dropped  1.7 percent to 41.01 reais at 4:40 p.m.
in Sao Paulo trading. The shares fell 29 percent last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Saponar at 
 rsaponar@bloomberg.net  