-- Vestas Cuts 2,335 Jobs With More at Risk This Year in U.S.
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-01-12T16:18:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/vestas-to-cut-2-335-jobs-worldwide-more-at-risk-in-u-s-this-year.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) , the world’s
biggest wind turbine maker, said it will halt production at one
factory and cut 2,335 jobs, or 10 percent of its staff, to
become more competitive with Chinese suppliers.  The changes are aimed at saving more than 150 million euros
($191 million) by the end of 2012, the company based in Aarhus,
Denmark, said today in a statement. Vestas said another 1,600
jobs in the U.S. are at risk as a tax credit supporting the
industry expires at year-end.  Chief Executive Officer  Ditlev Engel  will keep his post
after cutting sales forecasts twice since October. Three times
in three years he’s pared the workforce as  Sinovel Wind Group (SINOVZ) 
Co. and Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. grabbed
market share. Vestas also suffered from production delays at a
generator factory and from downward pressure on turbine prices.  “The challenges we have faced in the fourth quarter of
2011 have given us a credibility problem,” Engel said in the
statement. “I can certainly understand if employees as well as
people outside Vestas consider us to be in a state of crisis.”  Vestas fell 7.1 percent to 58.50 kroner at the close of
trading in Copenhagen, the most since Jan. 4, the day after the
last profit warning. The stock has lost almost 92 percent of its
value since peaking at 692 kroner in 2008.  Sentiment at ‘Lows’  “Some in the market were hoping for significant management
changes and this hasn’t happened,” Charlie Thomas, a London-
based fund manager of the Jupiter Ecology Fund, which owns
Vestas shares, said by e-mail. “With shareholder sentiment at
such lows, there was the potential to make a more significant
transformation. This is missing in our view.”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  who correctly
predicted the scale of the cuts, said in a phone interview from
Aabenraa, Denmark, that some investors may have expected Engel
to step down. He said Vestas “disappointed massively” with its
latest earnings forecast cut on Jan. 3.  Engel, 47, later told reporters the company’s board had
asked him to make today’s announcement, and that it would be
“unnatural” to leave the company now.  “The right time to leave a company is not when it’s facing
challenges and is in trouble,” Engel said at a news conference
in Copenhagen broadcast on the company website. “Have I offered
my resignation to the board? No. That’s because I don’t think it
would be the right thing to do.”  ‘Enormous Setback’  At a news conference today in Copenhagen with European
Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso, Danish Prime Minister
Helle Thorning-Schmidt called the job losses an “enormous
setback” to European Union efforts to promote green growth.  “This is a very, very sad day for  Denmark  as this is one
of the things we think Denmark should be doing in the future,”
Thorning-Schmidt said. “I still think this is the way forward,
investing in new ways of doing things and new technologies, and
despite this enormous setback, we’re on the right path.”  Engel also announced changes to management, with Chief
Financial Officer Henrik Norremark named chief operating officer
and deputy chief executive officer, and starting a search for a
new finance director. Vestas will organize its business into
five divisions and form a six-member executive team including
Engel and Norremark, who will remain acting CFO until a
replacement is found.  Management Changes  Those leaving the management team include Ander Soe-Jensen,
head of offshore wind; Bjarne Ravn Soerensen, president of
control systems; Finn Stroem Madsen, head of technology research
and development; and communications chief Peter Kruse.  Juan Araluce becomes chief sales officer and Anders Vedel
will be in charge of turbines. The new CFO and a new person to
head a services division will complete the team, which comes
into place on Feb. 1.  “We believe replacing the CFO to be a wise move,” Rupesh Madlani, an analyst in London at  Barclays Capital , said in a
note to investors. “The market had been disappointed over the
last year at the lack of financial details and two profit
warnings in a quarter from the company. We therefore view this
change to be particularly positive.”  Vestas slashed 3,000 jobs in October 2010 and 1,900 in
April 2009. After the latest round of cuts, its workforce will
number about 20,400.  A total of 1,749 of the jobs to be lost will be in  Europe ,
including 1,300 in Denmark, the statement said.  ‘Risk’ to Knowledge  “The redundancies are happening in an industry which ought
to experience progress due to the massive climate problems that
both Denmark and the world are facing,” Frida Frost, who chairs
the Danish Society of Engineers, which has 550 Vestas members,
said in an e-mail. “We risk that knowledge and know-how about
wind technology now disappears, and that is not what Denmark
needs in the current economic situation.”  Danish Metal Workers Union chairman Thorkild E. Jensen said
in a statement that the announcement creates “great
uncertainty” in the Vestas work force and is  a “hard blow”
to those who’ll lose their jobs.  In the U.S., 182 workers will lose their jobs, and 404 in
 China  and the rest of the world. Vestas will stop producing at
its tower factory in Varde, western Denmark, the company said.  “Vestas has one of the highest costs of all its peers and
will therefore have to take these painful steps in order to
remain profitable in the future,” Justin Wu, a Hong Kong-based
analyst with Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said in an e-mail.
“Turbine manufacturing margins have plummeted while competition
has become increasingly fierce.”  U.S. Jobs  In the U.S., a further 1,600 jobs may be cut if lawmakers
don’t extend the so-called production tax credit beyond 2012,
Vestas’s chief said. A decision will be made no later than the
fourth quarter, he said. The credit gives an incentive of 2.2
cents a kilowatt-hour of wind power.  “The expected layoffs are one of many steps that we now
take in order to bring down costs,” Engel said. The changes are
necessary “in order to prepare for a market with low growth and
increased competition.”  Vestas has spent more than $1 billion building four plants
in  Colorado . About 900 work at plants making nacelles and blades
in Brighton, Colorado. The company has hired almost 700 people
in the U.S. and Canada the past eight months. Vestas said it
will decide the size of the U.S. staff later this year.  “We are now preparing Vestas for the situation where one
of our largest single markets, the U.S.A., may be facing a tough
2013,” Engel said. “This will have a huge impact on our
business if we do not act now.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in  London  at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  