-- Vestas Jobs Threat Pressures Obama to Extend Tax Break
-- B y   G e l u   S u l u g i u c   a n d   A l e x   M o r a l e s
-- 2012-01-13T10:38:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/vestas-threat-to-u-s-jobs-adds-pressure-on-congress-to-extend-tax-break.html
Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS) ’s threat to
fire 1,600 workers in the U.S. undermines President  Barack
Obama ’s goal of creating green jobs and adds to pressure on
Congress to extend a tax credit that the industry relies on.  The world’s biggest maker of  wind turbines  said yesterday
it will probably reduce its staff beyond the 2,335 posts it’s
eliminating worldwide if the U.S. doesn’t renew the so-called
Production Tax Credit, which expires at the end of this year.  “We will evaluate it during 2012 depending entirely on how
the political situation evolves,” Chief Executive Officer
 Ditlev Engel  said in an interview in Copenhagen. U.S. jobs will
be scrapped “for sure” without the credit, and a decision is
due “no later than the fourth quarter,” he said.  Obama took office three years ago pledging to generate jobs
in the wind and solar industries, and calling in January 2011
for a “Sputnik moment” to wean the U.S. off fossil fuels.
Since he came to power, carbon cap-and-trade legislation stalled
and lawmakers attacked backing for solar manufacturer Solyndra
LLC, which filed for bankruptcy in September.  Vestas  shares  have fallen almost 10 percent in two days and
were down 2.8 percent to 56.85 kroner ($9.80) at 11:15 a.m. in
Copenhagen today.  Short positions  in the company, or bets that
the stock may fall, rose to 20.6 percent on Jan. 11, according
to the most recent figures from Data Explorers Inc., a record in
a series that goes back to July 2006.  Industry Concern  The Vestas warning adds fuel to the wind industry’s pleas
for lawmakers to extend the credit, which grants an incentive
worth 2.2 cents a kilowatt-hour of wind power.  Continuing the tax credit is needed to avoid the boom and
bust cycles of the past in the U.S., where the wind industry
employs more than 75,000 people, according to the  American Wind
Energy Association , a lobby group. Wind power growth is also
threatened by natural  gas prices , which fell almost a third last
year as production from shale formations reached a record.  “The production tax credit is incredibly vital to the U.S.
market,”  Jacob Pedersen , an analyst at  Sydbank A/S (SYDB)  who
correctly predicted the scale of the Vestas cuts, said in a
phone interview from Aabenraa,  Denmark . “If it isn’t there, no
one will invest. If you don’t get the tax credit, the return on
investment is lower.”  Tax Credit  The last time the production tax credit, or PTC, was
allowed to expire, at the end of 2003, U.S. annual wind
installations declined, to 397 megawatts in 2004 from 1,670
megawatts the previous year, according to AWEA data.  Vestas said 182 workers in the U.S. were included in its
current round of reductions, about 7.8 percent of the total
cuts. Most of the employees affected will be in  Europe .  “Ultimately, if the U.S. does withdraw PTC support, then
Vestas will commercially have no choice” other than firing
workers, Charlie Thomas, a London-based  fund manager  with
Jupiter Asset Management Ltd., which owns Vestas shares, said by
e-mail. “The boom/bust scenario the industry saw in 2003/4 on
the same issue was clearly unhealthy for the wind turbine
manufacturers then, as it would be now.”  Another incentive, the U.S. Treasury Department’s 1603 cash
grant program, expired Dec. 31. It offered as much as 30 percent
of development and construction costs for renewable energy
plants, and had paid out $9.6 billion through October to support
more than 22,000 projects. Developers said funding for clean
energy projects will fall this year without the 1603 program.  Threat to Developments  Letting the PTC expire this year will similarly threaten
new development,  Denise Bode , chief executive officer of
Washington-based AWEA, said in an e-mailed statement.  The “Vestas announcement shows the danger to U.S.
manufacturing jobs if Congress waits any longer to extend the
production tax credit,” she said. “With stable  tax policy  the
wind industry can grow to nearly 100,000 American jobs in the
next four years and support 500,000 American jobs by 2030.”  Engel said that the tax credit ensured that the wind sector
“got going” in the U.S., and that its expiration will hurt the
turbine maker’s clients.  “It’s not us who gets the PTC, it’s our customers,” Engel
said. “I’m sure a lot of them are very dependent on the PTC.”  Vestas has spent more than $1 billion building four
 factories  in  Colorado , and it has more than 3,000 employees
across the U.S. according to Engel. He said it would be
“wrong” to say Vestas will close down its U.S. plants.  Engel’s Assessment  “What we would do would be to ramp them down because the
United States market has been coming and going,” he said. “I’m
absolutely certain that the U.S. market will come back again,
but maybe not in 2013.”  U.S. new installations declined in 2010 to 5,116 megawatts
from 9,996 megawatts a year earlier, according to AWEA.
Bloomberg New Energy Finance estimates that 2011 installations
totaled 7,300 megawatts. U.S. installations may grow to 8,000
megawatts this year before dropping to 5,500 megawatts in 2013.  “The U.S. market has turned into a huge disappointment for
Vestas and other wind turbine manufacturers who invested heavily
in that market a few years ago when growth prospects seemed
strong and turbines were in short supply,” said Justin Wu, a
Hong Kong-based analyst with New Energy Finance.  “Now U.S. wind installations are in decline due to
continued policy uncertainty and factories are becoming idle as
a result,” Wu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gelu Sulugiuc in Copenhagen at 
 gsulugiuc@bloomberg.net ;
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  