-- Wall Street Cutbacks Pose Challenge as Bloomberg Prepares 2012 NYC Agenda
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-12T15:43:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/wall-street-cutbacks-pose-challenge-as-bloomberg-prepares-2012-nyc-agenda.html
New York  Mayor Michael Bloomberg
enters 2012 facing the prospect of 10,000 lost Wall Street jobs
and a  budget deficit  that may make it more difficult to build on
gains in health, education and public safety.  Bloomberg, 69, who is beginning the penultimate year of his
third and final four-year term, plans to outline his 2012 agenda
at 1 p.m. today, when he presents his State of the City address
at a Bronx high school. The mayor of the most populous U.S. city
has forecast a $2 billion gap in a $70 billion budget.  “This year will be the biggest challenge in a fiscal sense
because the fragile nature of the U.S. economic recovery and the
political climate in  Washington  and Albany doesn’t leave room
for tax increases and borrowing,” said Kathryn Wylde, president
of the  Partnership for New York City , a nonpartisan association
of corporate chief executives.  Wylde said her group expects Wall Street bonuses to drop as
much as 40 percent this year as regulators curb banks’ risk-
taking in a city where the financial industry accounted for 7
percent of  tax revenue  last year. That’s down from 14 percent in
2007, according to state Comptroller  Thomas DiNapoli . New York’s
finance, real estate, insurance and banking industries, which
employ about 317,000, may shed  10,000 jobs  this year, DiNapoli
has said.  Life Expectancy  To stimulate the economy, Bloomberg has offered budding
entrepreneurs low-rent  office space  he describes as “business
incubators” in all five boroughs. In his speech today, his
office says, he will announce that the city will seek proposals
from investors for commercial development of the  Kingsbridge
Armory , a 100-year-old, castle-like structure occupying an
almost five-acre block of the Bronx. It has remained vacant
since 1996, when the National Guard turned it over to the city.  Bloomberg may also outline plans to further goals he
established over the past decade, such as initiatives against
tobacco and obesity that he’s credited with increasing an
infant’s life expectancy to a record 80.6 years, compared with
the national rate of 78.2 years; building 165,000 units of
affordable housing by 2014; and creation of parks, bike lanes
and waterfront recreation space,  The  tourism industry , which drew a record 50 million
visitors in 2011 and helped offset some of the economic drag
from Wall Street, may have reached its peak, said Steve Cochran,
managing director for Moody’s Analytics Inc. in West Chester,
 Pennsylvania . With  Europe  facing a debt crisis and the euro
trading at a 16-month low, fewer Europeans may visit and more
Americans may travel across the Atlantic, he said.  Euro Impact  “The euro as a conduit to the  U.S. economy  goes right
through New York,” Cochran said. “It hits the European banks
with offices in the city and the U.S. banks that hold European
sovereign debt.”  The city may experience a net loss of 3,000 private-
industry jobs by September, out of a total of more than 3.24
million, Cochran said.  “It’s pretty clear that  Wall Street  bonuses this quarter
will be mild compared with recent years,” he said.  In November, anticipating the looming fiscal strain, the
mayor modified his spending plan to cut education funding by
$301 million, which will eliminate programs and some staff in
the largest U.S. school system. He also intends to trim $74.6
million from the Police Department, which spends about $4.45
billion a year.  Cop Cuts  “We cannot continue cutting police and other needed
services every year,” said Councilman Peter Vallone, a Queens
Democrat who is chairman of the Public Safety Committee. “These
cuts may allow the city to hire a few rookie cops while also
letting us lose a lot more senior officers, and that may make us
less safe.”  New York recorded about 500 homicides last year, the lowest
total since 1962, when the city began keeping such records.  Bloomberg has already unveiled some 2012 proposals,
including a 10,000-bicycle  sharing system  with 600 rental
stations in  Manhattan  and  Brooklyn , and the continued
development of Manhattan’s west side and a subway extension to
serve the area. The mayor is founder and majority owner of
Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg LP.  “One of Bloomberg’s tasks in 2012 will be to retain his
relevance as mayor, with two years left in his term, with a very
aggressive governor in  Andrew Cuomo , who is moving in,” said
 Maurice Carroll , director of the Quinnipiac University Polling
Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut .  ‘Power Center’  Cuomo, 54, a first-term Democrat, last month insisted upon
modifications in a law Bloomberg sought that would allow so-
called livery drivers to pick up riders who hail them on streets
outside Manhattan, Carroll said. The governor this month
proposed a $4 billion privately financed convention center in
Queens and a real estate development on Manhattan’s west side, a
neighborhood for which Bloomberg has had his own plans for
almost 10 years.  “The mayor is the power center in the city, there’s no
doubt about that,” Carroll said. “But  Albany  has always been
an obstacle and now with Cuomo, more so, and there’s not a lot
he can do about that but focus on what’s possible without
Albany.”  On Dec. 19 Bloomberg declared  Cornell University  and the
 Technion -Israel Institute of Technology winners of a competition
that awarded them $100 million in infrastructure improvements
and free land on Roosevelt Island off Manhattan to establish a
jointly operated engineering campus. The school would make the
city’s economy less reliant on Wall Street, creating
entrepreneurs, bolstering  job creation  and generating as much as
$23 billion in economic activity over the next 30 years,
Bloomberg said.  ‘Not Leaving Quietly’  The mayor held out the possibility that runner-up schools,
including the city’s  Columbia University ,  New York University 
and  Carnegie Mellon  University in Pittsburgh might also get
support to establish another satellite campus.  “The applied sciences initiative is a sign he’s not
leaving quietly and feels he has some time left to leave a
legacy and get some new policies out there,” said Jonathan Bowles, director of the Center for an Urban Future,  New York- 
based nonpartisan research group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in  New York City  Hall at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 