-- WaMu Approved to Seek Creditor Vote on $7 Billion Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-01-12T00:00:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/wamu-approved-to-seek-creditor-vote-on-7-billion-plan-1-.html
Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) , the former
owner of the biggest  U.S. bank  to fail, won court approval to
send its latest $7 billion payment plan to creditors for a vote.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Mary Walrath in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
ruled that the company’s so-called disclosure statement
contained enough information for the creditors to vote.  The decision comes after Walrath refused to halt
consideration of the plan until a district court rules on an
appeal by the holders of so-called trust-preferred securities.
Those investors, including Black Horse Capital LP and Lonestar
Partners LP, last year lost their court battle to have Walrath
define their securities as debt instead of equity.  “The harm to all the other creditors and stakeholders in
the case, I think, would be enormous,” Walrath said in a
hearing today.  Washington Mutual is preparing to try for the third time to
win approval of its plan after settling the objections of its
main critics, including shareholders.  The company will submit a written order for Walrath to sign
approving the disclosure statement after making minor wording
changes,  Brian Rosen , a WaMu attorney, said in court.  Tax Benefits  The company will return to court on Feb. 16 to seek
approval of the plan, which would pay creditors $7 billion and
set up a small reinsurance company to take advantages of tax
benefits WaMu built up before it filed bankruptcy in 2008.  Last month WaMu and the hedge funds backing the payment
plan settled a dispute with a committee of shareholders, one of
the last major opponents of the proposal.  That agreement, brokered by a court-appointed mediator,
calls for noteholders to contribute $75 million to the only unit
of WaMu that will exit bankruptcy as well as loan the entity
$125 million.  The company also settled a fight with a group of creditors
who hold so-called litigation tracking warrants, the value of
which was tied to a lawsuit WaMu won against the U.S.
government. Those warrant holders will get $9 million and shares
of the reinsurance unit that would survive bankruptcy under the
plan.  Year of Battles  The settlements follow more than a year of  battles  among
shareholders, four  hedge funds  that hold billions of dollars in
WaMu notes, and the company. Twice WaMu failed to win approval
from a bankruptcy judge for previous versions of its
reorganization plan, partly because of opposition from
shareholders.  The trust-preferred investors who wanted to halt
consideration of the plan hold about $1.5 billion in convertible
debt that Walrath ruled became shares in WaMu when the company
filed bankruptcy in 2008. Shareholders will collect a fraction
of what debt holders will collect under WaMu’s proposed payout
plan.  WaMu, based in  Seattle , filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26,
2008, the day after its banking unit was taken over by
regulators and sold to  JPMorgan (JPM)  Chase & Co. for $1.9 billion.
Washington Mutual Bank had more than 2,200 branches and $188
billion in deposits.  The case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WM) , 08-12229,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 