-- Web Domain Overseer Weighs Conflict Rule to Deflect Criticism
-- B y   E r i c   E n g l e m a n
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/web-domain-overseer-weighs-conflict-rule-to-deflect-criticism.html
The nonprofit group overseeing the
Web’s address system may strengthen its conflict-of-interest
rules as it prepares to add hundreds of top-level domains beyond
.com in a program opposed by owners of large brands.  The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers,
scheduled to begin taking applications today for new extensions
such as .apple and .nyc, has to develop “clear separations”
between its board members and staff and the Web community, Chief
Executive Officer Rod Beckstrom said yesterday in an interview
at Bloomberg’s Washington bureau.  Icann, the manager of the Web’s address system under a U.S.
Commerce Department contract, drew criticism from public
interest organizations, a national advertisers group and a U.S.
senator after its previous chairman, Peter Dengate Thrush,
joined a company that plans to invest in new domains less than a
month after the board approved the expansion in June.  “Now is a great opportunity to put in place something
along the lines of what they do in government, where there’s a
cooling-off period,”  Sheila Krumholz , executive director of the
Washington-based  Center for Responsive Politics , said in an
interview. “Icann should consider rules that limit former staff
and board members from taking positions whereby they could
immediately benefit from the inside information and policies
they themselves put in place.”  The  Icann  board’s governance committee is reviewing
conflict-of-interest issues, and the group is working with
outside authorities including two law firms on its ethics
policies, Beckstrom said. He didn’t name any specific changes
under consideration.  Developing Ethics Policies  “We have to change our conduct simply because we’re going
into a different phase right now,” Beckstrom said. “You’ll see
some changes occurring to our guidelines and to our practices.”  Beckstrom, who plans to step down in July, declined to
discuss his plans. He said he could “conceivably” join a
company that profits from the new domain-name system after he
leaves Icann under the condition that he doesn’t use
confidential information.  Beckstrom, who has been Icann’s CEO and a director there
since 2009, has a base salary of $750,000 a year and is eligible
for additional “at risk compensation” of as much as $195,000
annually, according to the group’s website. He previously served
as director of the National Cybersecurity Center at the Homeland
Security Department, according to his Icann biography.  Senator  Ron Wyden , an Oregon Democrat, called on the
Commerce Department in September to include ethics and conflict-
of-interest rules in any future contract to manage the domain-
name system. The Association of National Advertisers in October
urged Icann to review its ethics policies.  ‘Nothing Is Final’  American Express Co. (AXP) ,  Johnson & Johnson  and Coca-Cola Co.
are among more than 50 companies that signed a petition in
November saying the expansion would increase their costs and
confuse consumers. They urged the Commerce Department to
persuade Icann to postpone the application period.  The Association of National Advertisers, based in
Washington, has rallied brand owners’ opposition to the program
and suggested changes on Jan. 9 that include a “do not sell”
list aimed at saving companies from having to defensively buy
domains.  Beckstrom said the expansion, discussed and debated by
Icann for six years, won’t be delayed or scaled back, though
“nothing is final” with the program.  “There will be some change and tweaks, would be my
forecast,” Beckstrom said, adding that any modifications would
be considered through Icann’s deliberation process.  Lawsuits Expected  The expansion may generate enough revenue to double the
group’s $85 million annual budget, he said. The organization,
which receives no funding from its Commerce Department contract,
charges fees to domain-name services companies such as Go Daddy
Group and  VeriSign Inc. (VRSN)   The application period closes April 12, and Icann will
publish a list as early as May showing who applied for each
domain-name, Beckstrom said. Icann expects lawsuits as a result
of the program and will put aside about $60,000 of every
$185,000 application fee to cover potential litigation, he said.  “Some parties will choose to use litigation,” Beckstrom
said. “This is the most significant opening of the domain-name
system in the history of the Internet and a lot of parties
around the world have very significant economic interests.”  Icann has come under pressure from U.S. lawmakers and
regulators to postpone or curb the program. Senator  Jay Rockefeller , a West Virginia Democrat who leads the Senate
Commerce Committee, called for delaying or limiting the
expansion in a Dec. 28 letter to the Commerce Department.  Consumer Fraud  The Federal Trade Commission said in a Dec. 16 letter that
the expansion will create “dramatically increased opportunity
for consumer fraud” and urged Icann to turn the initiative into
a pilot program and reduce the number of suffixes that are
introduced.  The Commerce Department has raised industry complaints
about the expansion with Icann while making clear it doesn’t
seek to interfere with the group’s decisions. Icann’s current
contract with the agency expires in March, and the Commerce
Department has requested bids for a new contract.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Engleman in  Washington  at 
 eengleman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  