-- Why Companies Acquire Their Supply Chains: Hortacsu and Syverson
-- B y   A l i   H o r t a c s u   a n d   C h a d   S y v e r s o n
-- 2012-01-12T00:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/why-companies-own-their-supply-chain-commentary-by-hortacsu-and-syverson.html
Business lore and business school
classes are full of stories about vertical integration. They
range from the classic tales of Carnegie Steel Co., Ford Motor
Co.’s River Rouge complex, and General Motors Corp.’s 1926
acquisition of Fisher Body, to  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s recent decision to
bring production of the 787 Dreamliner in-house after costly
delays at its suppliers.  What these stories share is the notion that companies
vertically integrate so they can ensure ready supplies of key
inputs.  Yet a closer look at the data shows that, even among
vertically structured firms, this sort of self-service is the
exception rather than the rule. In a  recent study , we tracked
the flow of products through the economy using data on millions
of individual shipments of goods from tens of thousands of U.S.
firms.  This detailed information comes from the  Commodity Flow
Survey . It lets us see who makes what; how much it is worth; and
where it is sent. In particular, it shows whether the upstream
units of vertically integrated companies did, in fact, send
their output to their downstream units for further processing.  Upstream Units  We were surprised to find that instead of keeping those
potential inputs inside the company, the upstream units sell the
vast majority of what they make to others. It wasn’t just that
the vertically integrated companies make more inputs than they
need and sell the remainder. Those selling their upstream
production would simultaneously buy similar products from others
to use as inputs for their downstream operations.  For example, some construction-products companies made both
cement and concrete products (cement is an input in concrete
production). Yet those companies sent most of the cement they
made to other concrete producers while purchasing much of their
own cement needs from other firms.  We found that vertically integrated companies sell more
than 80 percent of what they make by way of inputs to other
firms, rather than using those products themselves. Even this
number is skewed by a few large Boeing-like exceptions.  About 40 percent of vertically integrated firms use none of
their own upstream production, choosing instead to procure their
inputs from outsiders.  If most vertically integrated companies aren’t supplying
themselves, then why do they own production chains? It is harder
to get a clear answer to this question from the data, but there
are some clues to an explanation. Trying to understand why
companies own production chains by looking at the way goods flow
along the chain could be misleading. Instead, it might be the
things we can’t see -- managerial oversight, marketing know-how,
customer contacts, intellectual property, and other information-
based capital -- that drive most vertical integration.  By integrating, companies can spread these types of capital
over the production chain. Integrated firms appear to let the
market and contracted suppliers handle most of the flow of
tangible goods along the chain, while using control through
ownership to apply the necessary intangible capital, which is by
nature harder to write contracts over.  We found some evidence for this sort of spreading of
intangible capital. When ownership of a business establishment
(a manufacturing plant, say) changes hands, the plant reorients
its activity toward its new owner. It sells less to its old
customers and more to those that its acquirer had already been
serving.  Acquirer’s Contacts  While that’s not completely surprising, it must mean that
the plant’s acquirer transfers some sort of firm-specific sales
contacts to the plant. Perhaps more notable is that the acquired
plant doesn’t just serve different customers, it often changes
what it produces. It stops making the products that were the
focus of its old firm and shifts toward the types of products
its new firm specializes in. This sort of transformation of the
very purpose of the plant almost surely requires some sort of
intangible capital inputs from the acquirer.  If this explanation for integration is correct, companies’
expansions along production chains may not be altogether
different than their horizontal expansions, which occur when
firms start operating in markets related to their current lines
of business with the hope that their capital can be applied
profitably to the new markets.  Vertical expansions may operate under the very same
principle. After all, industries that supply a firm’s inputs are
clearly related lines of business. Some companies may expand
into them in the same way they would enter a new product market.  In other words, companies choose to grow in all sorts of
directions. Some happen to do it along supply chains, but they
are essentially doing it for the same reason as all the others.  We shouldn’t expect that the classic “make or buy” input
decision is always part of the consideration. And the data show
that, indeed, it usually isn’t.  ( Ali Hortacsu  is professor of economics at the  University
of Chicago . Chad Syverson, a professor of economics at the
University of Chicago’s Booth School of Business, is a
contributor to  Business Class . The opinions expressed are their
own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writers of this article:
Ali Hortacsu at  hortacsu@chicago.edu ;
Chad Syverson at  chad.syverson@chicagobooth.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net  