-- Williams-Sonoma Falls After Cutting Forecast
-- B y   A s h l e y   L u t z   a n d   C o t t e n   T i m b e r l a k e
-- 2012-01-12T15:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/williams-sonoma-falls-after-cutting-forecast.html
Williams-Sonoma Inc. (WSM) , the owner of
the namesake, Pottery Barn and West Elm home-goods chains, fell
the most in more than three years after saying profit may be
less than it previously forecast because of holiday discounts.  The shares dropped 12 percent to $34.58 at 9:49 a.m. in New
York, after earlier falling 15 percent for the biggest intraday
drop since Nov. 14, 2008. The San Francisco-based company’s
shares gained 7.9 percent last year.  Chief Executive Officer Laura Alber said the Williams-
Sonoma brand faced “greater challenges” because of discounting
on nationally branded products. Sales at all stores open at
least a year fell 0.3 percent in the two-month holiday period
ended Dec. 26, compared with a 5 percent gain a year earlier,
the company said in a statement. The retailer also lowered its
fourth-quarter gross-margin projection.  “Softness in the Williams-Sonoma brand and weakening gross
margin could weigh on investor sentiment,” Bradley Thomas, an
analyst with Keybanc Capital Markets Inc., wrote in a note to
clients today. “Looking ahead, we remain encouraged by
management’s execution on growth initiatives such as e-commerce,
international expansion, and repositioning the West Elm brand.”  Thomas, who is based in  New York , recommends holding the
shares.  The retailer cut its maximum quarterly gross-margin
projection to 41 percent from 42.2 percent previously. Fourth-
quarter  profit  will be as much as $1.15 a share, compared with
an earlier projection of as much as $1.20, the company said
today in the statement. The average of 21 analysts’  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg was $1.19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ashley Lutz in New York at 
 alutz8@bloomberg.net 
Cotten Timberlake in Washington at 
 ctimberlake@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  