-- Balkan Drought Drains Hydro Plants, Raises Danger of Blackouts
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-01-12T09:40:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/worst-drought-in-decades-squeezes-power-supply-in-balkans-as-demand-surges.html
Tourists visiting the Macedonian
mountain resort of Mavrovo this winter have been able to see the
19th-century  St. Nicholas chapel  for the first time in 50 years.
Usually submerged in a reservoir, it stands once again on dry
land as the worst drought in four decades lays bare the
vulnerability of the Balkan energy grid.  The surface of the man-made lake, created to drive three
hydropower plants in one of  Europe ’s poorest regions, has
dropped by more than seven meters (23 feet) since the beginning
of last year, risking regional blackouts. Average rainfall for
nine countries between the Black and Adriatic Seas was 44
percent below normal,  Bosnia-Herzegovina’s Federal
Hydrometeorological Institute  said.  The record-breaking drought shows how Balkan nations need
to diversify from unreliable hydropower, which accounts for
about 40 percent of the region’s output and varies with the
weather. In a region that’s typically self-sufficient for power,
state-owned utilities including  Serbia ’s  Elektroprivreda Srbije 
are paying to import electricity because governments lack cash
to add plants and improve grids. Inadequate supply threatens to
hold back growth in a region where electricity demand has surged
19 percent in a decade.  Need for Investment  “Investments are needed urgently,” said Nikola Rajakovic,
a lecturer on energy issues at Belgrade University’s School of
Electrical Engineering and a former Serb deputy energy minister.
“The drought simply exposed the fact that investments in the
energy sector have been insufficient.”  The region is looking for increased foreign investment as
ex-Yugoslav republics seek to follow Slovenia into the European
Union, accelerating their recovery from the wars of the 1990s.
 Croatia  will join the EU in 2013. Montenegro has started talks,
while Serbia, bombed by NATO warplanes in 1999, waits for a
March decision on granting candidacy status.  In Bosnia-Herzegovina,  Elektroprivreda Bosne i
Herzegovine ’s hydropower output was probably 35 percent of its
usual December production, said Mirsad Sabanovic, the company’s
head of trade and supplies. Elektroprivreda  Republike Srpske ,
which generates power in the country’s Serb sector, has
suspended exports was forced to import 1,500 megawatt-hours a
day, said spokeswoman Danijela Subotic.  Import Costs  Serbia’s Elektroprivreda Srbije paid 1 million euros ($1.3
million) a day last month to import as much as 18 million
kilowatt-hours, or 15 percent of national consumption, company
spokesman Momcilo Cebalovic said. Serbian hydro plants, which
account for a third of output, are running at half-capacity.  The Serb grid operator may post a 2011 loss because it’s
losing money on imports. It retails electricity at government-
capped 5.5 euro cents per kilowatt hour and paid twice that for
imports when shortages pushed prices higher.  Its projects for new  power plants  total 6.27 billion euros,
of which 45 percent in renewable sources, mostly hydro plants,
and 55 percent in coal-fired facilities, as the utility seeks to
reduce risk from volatile weather. Yesterday it announced plans
for its first wind park, to be build east of Belgrade for
estimated 35 million to 40 million euros and with 30 megawatt
installed capacity.                                      Strict
controls over power prices have hindered foreign investment,
said Matthias Heck, a utilities analyst at Macquarie Securities
in  Frankfurt . Those who have invested, like  CEZ AS (CEZ) , the Czech
power producer, or its Austrian rival  EVN AG (EVN) , have yet to recoup
their cash because of government reluctance to anger voters with
deregulation, he said.  Stalled Plans  “It’s a question of whether investors in the networks can
reasonably expect returns on their investments,” Heck said.
“In many cases, politicians haven’t allowed utilities to
achieve the promised regulated returns.”  Plans to build new nuclear reactors in the Balkans have
also stalled.  RWE AG (RWE) ,  GDF Suez (GSZ)  SA,  Iberdrola SA (IBE)  and CEZ pulled
out of a 4 billion-euro project to develop two new reactors at
the Cernavoda plant in Romania, while  Bulgaria  has been unable
to lure more investors to its Belene nuclear station, estimated
to cost at least 6.3 billion euros.  The fragile grid is another problem. Southeastern Europe
needs to invest at least 300 million euros ($387 million) into
new  power lines  to reduce the risk of blackouts that arose last
year when a sudden drop in electricity production created demand
for imports, according to Serbia’s grid operator.  Soaring Power Prices  Power prices in the Balkans almost doubled to 109 euros per
megawatt-hour in late November when temperatures fell because
more than half of the region’s households use electricity for
heating, said Nenad Savic, a director at Energy Financing Team
Ltd., a London-based energy trader and investor.  The prices have since eased to 70 euros per megawatt due to
milder weather, “but will soar again as winter sets in,” he
said.  Montenegro, Serbia’s southern neighbor, has seen “the
lowest rainfall on record” and its hydro plants were working at
just 5 percent capacity in early December, while the country’s
sole thermal plant covers about a third of the demand, said
utility spokesman Rajko Sebek.  Romania , the biggest electricity
producer in the region, stopped exporting power in October amid
falling water levels.  Even after increasing production at costlier coal-fired
plants, the Balkan utilities asked consumers and manufacturers
to curb their power consumption during peak hours. Yet the
region needs a long-term strategy as energy consumption is
likely to rise along with future economic growth, analysts said.  “New production capacities are needed very much,” said
Savic from EFT. “If we have a serious problem to meet the
demand in a relatively weak economic environment. How are we
going to secure normal supplies when we start to develop bigger
industries?”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net ;
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net ;
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  