-- Myanmar Begins Releasing Hundreds of Political Prisoners After Cease-Fire
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-01-13T07:11:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/myanmar-signs-cease-fire-with-rebels-in-step-to-ending-60-year-civil-war.html
Myanmar’s government began releasing
hundreds of political prisoners after signing a cease-fire with
the country’s largest armed rebel group, two conditions set by
Western nations for lifting sanctions.  Prisoners including pro-democracy activists, ethnic
minority leaders and an ex-prime minister who fell out of favor
with the former ruling junta were set free today, according to
the  Democratic Voice of Burma , an Internet news service run by
exiles. They are among 651 prisoners included in a presidential
pardon, the  Associated Press  reported.  “This could be the big prisoner release that everyone has
been waiting for,”  Thant Myint-U , a former United Nations
official who has written two books on Myanmar, said in a
telephone interview. “It’s a number greater than the National
League for Democracy’s number of prisoners of conscience,” he
said, referring to top dissident Aung San Suu Kyi’s party.  Freeing political prisoners has been a primary demand of
U.S. and European policy makers who impose sanctions on Myanmar,
one of Asia’s poorest countries whose 62 million citizens earn
an average of $2.20 per day. U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  urged Myanmar President  Thein Sein  during a visit in
December to free prisoners and improve ties with ethnic groups
as a condition for easing restrictions.  The prisoners released today included Min Ko Naing, a
student leader from a 1988 uprising, and Khun Tun Oo, a Shan
ethnic leader, the AP reported. Former Prime Minister Khin Nyunt
was also freed after more than seven years under house arrest,
the Democratic Voice of  Burma  reported.  Independent Monitors  “Years of international calls to release long-detained
political prisoners seem to have pushed the government to
finally do the right thing,” Elaine Pearson, deputy Asia
director for New York-based  Human Rights Watch , said in a
statement. “The next step for Burma’s government is to allow
international monitors to verify the whereabouts and conditions
of remaining political prisoners.”  The number of jailed dissidents in Myanmar is disputed. Suu
Kyi, who spent 15 years in confinement before her release in
2010, called for the government to free 525 political prisoners
on Nov. 16. The Thailand-based Assistance Association for
Political Prisoners (Burma) said Dec. 23 that  more than 1,500
dissidents  remained locked up.  ‘Good News’  The prisoner release follows an agreement signed yesterday
with the  Karen National Union  in a bid to end more than 60 years
of fighting in one of the world’s oldest conflicts.  “This is good news for the people of Burma,” U.K. Foreign
Secretary  William Hague , who traveled to Myanmar for talks last
week, said in an e-mailed statement, referring to the country by
its former name. State Department spokeswoman Victoria Nuland
yesterday called the cease-fire “a good step.”  “This is an incredibly significant moment,” Jim Della- Giacoma, Southeast  Asia  project director for the  International
Crisis Group , said by telephone from Jakarta. “It could be a
tipping point and lead other major armed groups that have not
yet signed cease-fires with the government to do so.”  Hague offered last week to lift sanctions on Myanmar in
return for “bold steps” toward increased freedom and
democracy, echoing Clinton’s statement from last month.  European Union sanctions on Myanmar include asset freezes
on state-owned companies as well as travel restrictions on
officials. U.S. measures ban imports, restrict money transfers,
curb aid funding and target jewelry with gemstones originating
in Myanmar.  Return to Myanmar  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , based in San Ramon,  California , is one of
the few U.S. companies operating in Myanmar through its 2005
purchase of Unocal Corp., which invested in a  gas field  and
pipeline prior to a 1997 ban on new investment.  Standard
Chartered Plc (STAN) , the U.K. bank that earns more than two-thirds of
its profit in Asia, said this month it’s seeking to return to
Myanmar once the U.S. and  Europe  lift sanctions.  China  National Petroleum Corp. is building oil and gas
pipelines across Myanmar, a move that would allow it to access
Middle Eastern crude without having to go through the Malacca
Straits. China,  Hong Kong  and  Thailand  account for more than 70
percent of total investment into Myanmar, compared with less
than 1 percent for the U.S., according to government data.  China’s Yunnan province has an economy twice the size of
Myanmar. China and  India , which account for more than a third of
the world population, share more than 3,600 kilometers (2,237
miles) of border with Myanmar.  Ethnic Groups  The KNU was among five ethnic groups that met with Myanmar
government representative Aung Min two months ago for initial
peace talks. The group, founded in 1947, claims about a tenth of
Myanmar’s 62 million people. It is seeking to retain the ability
to carry weapons in a federal system that maintains self-
determination for the Karen, according to its website.  The KNU sent a 19-member delegation to the talks, according
to a  statement  released two days ago before the meeting. The
conflict has driven more than 140,000 people to seek asylum in
neighboring Thailand, which hosts them in camps along the
border, according to the  United Nations .  Myanmar’s army is still fighting with ethnic groups
including the Kachin Independence Army, a conflict that has
displaced 50,000 ethnic Kachin since last June, Human Rights
Watch said on Dec. 21. Kachin, bordering China and India, is the
northernmost of Myanmar’s 14 provinces.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  