-- You’re So Bain: Campaign Asks, Is Private Equity Good for U.S.?
-- B y   P e t e r   C o y
-- 2012-01-12T01:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/you-re-so-bain-campaign-asks-is-private-equity-good-for-u-s-.html
Private equity is a rapacious
destroyer of the middle class. No, it renews American industry
by infusing old companies with capital and ideas.  Well, which is it? You won’t get the answer from the
campaign trail, where Mitt Romney is getting kicked around for
his private-equity credentials even by fellow Republicans. ( Rick Perry  called Romney’s old firm,  Bain Capital  LLC, “vultures
that are sitting out there on the tree limb waiting for the
company to get sick.”)  Romney’s argument against President Barack Obama hinges on
the former Massachusetts governor’s record in the private
sector, which is why he insists that he helped create 100,000
jobs at Bain, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its Jan. 16
issue. The rhetorical fog machine is at full throttle, and
nothing resembling a straightforward answer is likely to emerge
from any candidate’s mouth between now and Election Day.  It might be good, then, to lower the volume on your
television and consider the evidence. For the most part, private
equity firms such as Bain are neither job-creating machines nor
bloodsucking villains. They’re agents of what the Austrian
economist  Joseph Schumpeter  called “creative destruction.”  That’s the economic theory that says destruction is the yin
to creation’s yang; you can’t make an omelet without breaking a
few eggs. (If he were alive, Schumpeter would love Romney.)  The real issue is less about the details of Bain’s record,
which varies from deal to deal, than whether a skilled
practitioner of creative destruction is the right person to sit
in the Oval Office in January 2013.  Buyout Firms  Private equity is the new name for what used to be called
leveraged buyout firms. There are many investment plays, but the
most common strategy is simple: buy an undervalued company,
usually with borrowed money to juice returns. Whip it into
shape. And after five years or so, sell it back to the public,
paying off the debt and keeping the profits.  Big private-equity firms such as Bain Capital,  Blackstone
Group LP (BX) ,  Carlyle Group  LP, and  KKR & Co.  are partnerships that
raise funds from outside investors, known as limited partners.
The outside investors typically pay management fees equal to
2 percent of the size of the fund per year, plus 20 percent of
the profits above a hurdle of an 8 percent annual return to the
limited partners.  Done right, private equity rains down cash. Carlyle Group
announced on Jan. 10 that its three founders made $413 million
last year. If the One Percent Club had its own One Percent Club,
people like Romney, KKR’s Henry R. Kravis, and Blackstone’s
 Peter G. Peterson  would be members in good standing.  Generating Returns  Studies show that private-equity firms are excellent at
generating returns for their investors, which include college
endowment funds and teachers’ pension funds that represent
ordinary people. That’s a good thing. The firms appear to shrink
employment slightly, which is bad.  On the liability side of the ledger, they benefit from
special tax breaks, including the “carried interest” rule that
allows them to treat their profits as lightly taxed capital
gains. On the asset side, they force bad managers and deadwood
employees to look elsewhere for work.  Investigative reporters and rival campaigns have been
climbing all over Bain, trying to assess its record while Romney
ran it from its founding in 1984 until he left in 1999 to save
the Salt Lake City Winter Olympics from a corruption scandal.
The Wall Street Journal reported on Jan. 10 that 17 of 77 firms
that Bain bought either filed for bankruptcy reorganization or
shut down in the eight years after Bain invested.  Sports Authority , Staples  On the other hand, there were also huge successes such as
startups Sports Authority Inc. and  Staples Inc. (SPLS)  Of the targets
that failed, Bain says that some went under after it no longer
controlled them.  Bain Capital isn’t necessarily representative of an entire
industry. Two major academic studies published in 2011 allow us
to examine the record of a broad swath of private-equity firms
on the two key questions: returns to investors and job creation.  An analysis of 598 buyout funds that existed between 1984
and 2008 found that even after fees, their weighted-average
returns to outside investors were 1.27 times the returns on the
 Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  over the same periods. That’s a huge
margin.  That performance wasn’t limited to just a few lucky years,
either, according to the study by Steven N. Kaplan of the
University of Chicago Booth School of Business, Robert S. Harris
of the University of Virginia Darden School, and Tim Jenkinson
of Oxford University’s Saïd Business School. The buyout firms
underperformed the  S&P 500  in only 5 of the 25 years.  ‘Strong Incentives’  Kaplan says the funds’ outperformance is evidence that
private-equity firms genuinely unlock value through “strong
incentives to management, strong oversight, and operational
consulting.”  Why should ordinary Americans care about the financial
success of private equity? They shouldn’t -- unless they’re
invested in it. According to Preqin, a London-based data
provider, 25 percent of the dollars going to private-equity
funds from 2009 to 2011 came from public pension funds. That
included teachers in  Texas ,  California , and  New Jersey .  Of course, most of the voting 99 Percent cares more about
the hiring and firing that private equity-backed firms do than
about their investment returns. In September, Josh Lerner of
 Harvard Business School  and four other authors released a
working paper looking at the employment patterns of 3,200 firms
targeted by private equity from 1980 to 2005.  Control Group  In a big advance over previous studies, it compared them to
a control group of firms that were similar in industry, size,
age, and prior growth. The paper’s summary -- which is the one
most likely to be quoted in news stories and congressional
testimony -- concludes that in comparison to the control group,
the PE firms’ employment shrank “less than 1 percent” in the
two years after a deal.  That’s not the full story, though. The comforting statistic
understates the job destruction attributable to PE because it
gives buyout firms credit for jobs that were added via
 investment banking  -- i.e., jobs added through acquisitions,
minus jobs lost through divestitures. Excluding such
transactions, the authors report, the PE-backed firms lost
2.1 percent of their employment v. the non-PE baseline in the
two years after a deal. In other words, having your company
acquired by a private-equity firm is like living through a
national recession.  The facts, then, both support and refute the populist
rhetoric of Romney’s rivals. But the facts aren’t all that
matter during silly season. The whistle-stop attacks are making
trouble not only for Romney’s campaign but also for the entire
private equity business.  Romney’s Tax Returns  Romney hasn’t made matters better by refusing to release
his tax returns, a routine step for presidential candidates in
recent decades. The sector is at risk of being defined by the
now-famous photo of Romney and his fellow partners with dollar
bills stuffed in their hands, pockets, and even some mouths.  Private equity has a lot to lose from a populist backlash,
including its carried-interest tax break. The Private Equity
Growth Capital Council conducted a study claiming to show that
eliminating the special tax treatment “could reduce private-
equity investment in the U.S. by $7 billion to $27 billion a
year,” judging from responses to previous tax changes.  The study says that by the methodology used by the Obama
administration to calculate the effect of stimulus spending,
“employment could be 37,000 to 128,000 lower” as a result. If
private equity loses the public-relations war, lawmakers may
dismiss the study and give private equity a kick in the pants.  It’s 2012  The chief problem for Romney and for private equity is that
it’s 2012. The virtues of creative destruction are abstract,
while the reality of 8.5 percent unemployment is vivid.  Romney’s résumé might have gone over better in 2000, when
the  unemployment rate  was 4 percent and workers were confident
that if they lost one job, another would pop up soon. Today
there’s no such assurance -- which is why people are voluntarily
quitting their jobs at a lower rate now than even during the
2001 recession.  Romney is trying to accentuate the “creative” and
eliminate the “destruction” from his message. Still, the claim
that he helped create 100,000 jobs is a stretch. It counts
employment increases at firms long after Bain ceased to be
involved -- and appears to exclude layoffs at other firms. (In
his 1994 Senate race, his campaign claimed “more than 10,000”
jobs created.)  Private equity does not raise corn, build cars, or teach
children. What it does, when it works, is make the economy more
efficient -- while enriching the likes of  Mitt Romney . That’s
what the facts show. Whether America’s next president should
come from the privileged precinct of private equity is something
only the voters can decide.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Peter Coy  in New York at   pcoy3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel at   jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  