-- Yuan Drops on Speculation U.S. Appreciation Pressure Lessening
-- B y   K y o u n g w h a   K i m
-- 2012-01-12T09:07:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/yuan-drops-on-speculation-u-s-appreciation-pressure-lessening.html
The yuan fell for a seventh day, the
longest losing streak since 2006, on speculation U.S. pressure
on  China  to strengthen its currency is lessening.  The People’s Bank of China set the fixing 0.12 percent
weaker at 6.3230 per dollar. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the U.S. and China had a “strong cooperative
relationship” on economic growth, financial stability and
nonproliferation after holding talks with Premier Wen Jiabao in
Beijing yesterday. Consumer prices rose 4.1 percent from a year
earlier in December, cooling for a fifth month, the National
Bureau of Statistics said today.  “There was a clear signal from the visit that the yuan is
a big move down on the agenda in terms of U.S.-China
relations,” said  Robert Minikin , a senior currency strategist
at Standard Chartered Plc in  Hong Kong . “We’re seeing more two-
way variability in the yuan now with no clear trend.”  The yuan weakened 0.04 percent to 6.3178 per dollar in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System.
The currency is allowed to trade as much as 0.5 percent on
either side of the daily fixing. The yuan strengthened 4.7
percent last year, the best performance among  Asia ’s 10 most-
traded currencies excluding the yen.  Policy makers may need to expand the yuan’s trading band
and give the market a larger role in determining its  exchange
rate , the Shanghai Daily reported today, citing Chen Xuebin of
the Institute for Financial Studies at Fudan University in
 Shanghai .  December’s consumer-price gains were the least since
September 2010. China has scope to loosen fiscal and monetary
policy as the nation is bringing inflation under control and has
a small  budget deficit , Stephen Roach, non-executive chairman of
Morgan Stanley Asia, said in an interview today.  In Hong Kong’s offshore market, the yuan declined 0.08
percent to 6.3155 per dollar. Twelve-month non-deliverable
forwards dropped 0.13 percent to 6.3255, a 0.1 percent discount
to the onshore spot rate.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kyoungwha Kim in Singapore at 
 kkim19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  