-- Ziggo, MMPI, Velvet Underground Banana, MediaNews: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-12T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-12/ziggo-mmpi-velvet-underground-banana-medianews-intellectual-property.html
Dutch Internet providers Ziggo BV
and XS4ALL must block access to the Pirate Bay file-sharing
website, a Dutch court ruled.  The Dutch entertainment industry association BREIN filed a
lawsuit against The Pirate Bay, claiming that the exchange of
music, movies and games on the site violates copyright laws.  “About 30 percent of Ziggo clients and 4.5 percent of
XS4ALL subscribers have exchanged music, movies and games via
The Pirate Bay,” the court in The Hague said in a statement
yesterday.  The Pirate Bay site, which was founded in  Sweden , enables
downloading of digitized music and films using software called
BitTorrent that enables complete works to be assembled from
pieces on other users’ computers.  Telenor ASA (TEL) , Norway’s largest
phone company, successfully argued in a Norwegian court in 2010
that the company shouldn’t be ordered to block the website.  Earlier this week  Elisa Oyj (ELI1V) , Finland’s largest wireless
carrier by subscribers, temporarily blocked the site, after
receiving an enforcement order from a Helsinki court.  University of Minnesota Files Infringement Suit Over MMPI Test  The  University of Minnesota  filed a copyright infringement
suit in an effort to keep secret the details of a well-known
personality test.  The suit, filed Jan. 9 in federal court in New York, is
related to the  Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory  test,
generally known as the MMPI. The test is widely used to diagnose
mental disorders.  Pearson plc ’s Pearson Education unit is the exclusive
licensee for the test and a co-plaintiff in the case with the
university.  According to the complaint, test statements and scoring
information have been published without authorization on several
websites by a  New Zealand  resident.  The defendants are a web-hosting service and its customer,
who provided the content the school found objectionable.  The web-hosting service where the allegedly infringing
content was published appears to be caught in the middle of the
dispute. New York-based Kazan Corp. complied with the school’s
request to take down the objectionable content only to be met
with a demand from the New Zealander Dec. 23 that it be
restored.  Andrew Dobson, of Napier, New Zealand, claimed that the
material he posted did not infringe the school’s copyright. In
an e-mail to Kazan included with the case filings, he argued
that the school didn’t possess the copyright to the content he
posted. He said it was authored by someone else, who made the
content available under what is known as the GNU General Public
License as published by the Free Software Foundation.  Dobson also told Kazan that should the university be able
to prove that it owned the content he posted, he would remove
the material. He demanded the content be restored.  The university asked the court to bar the web-hosting
service from reactivating the link to the objectionable content.
It also seeks an order barring any distribution of the test by
the defendants, and asked for awards of money damages, profits
defendants derived from the alleged infringement, and attorney
fees and litigation costs.  The school is represented by  Susan Progoff ,  Jonathan
Montcalm ,  Stuart R. Hemphill  and  Jeffrey R. Cadwell  of
Minneapolis-based  Dorsey & Whitney LLP .  The case is Regents of the  University of Minnesota  v.
Dobson, 1:12-cv-00169-PAC, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ).  Velvet Underground Sues Warhol Foundation Over Banana Album  The Velvet Underground sued the Andy Warhol Foundation,
accusing it of infringing the trademark for the banana design on
the cover of the rock group’s first album in 1967.  The band’s founders,  Lou Reed  and John Cale, said that the
foundation infringed the design by licensing it to third
parties, according to the complaint filed yesterday in federal
court in Manhattan.  The band, which was active from about 1965 to 1972, formed
an artistic collaboration with Warhol, who designed the banana
illustration for “The Velvet Underground and Nico,” which
critics have labeled one of the most influential rock recordings
of all time, according to the complaint.  The Warhol Foundation claimed it has a copyright interest
in the design, according to the lawsuit. The Velvet Underground
partnership said in the complaint that the design can’t be
copyrighted because the banana image Warhol furnished for the
illustration came from an advertisement and was in the public
domain.  Warhol, one of the most celebrated Pop artists, began his
collaboration with the band in 1965. The group performed at his
 New York  studio, the Factory, and in his traveling light show,
the Exploding Plastic Inevitable. Warhol died in 1987.  Nina Djerejian, a spokeswoman for the New York-based
foundation, didn’t return messages seeking comment on the
lawsuit.  Warhol’s copyrighted works have a market value of
$120 million and the foundation has earned more than
$2.5 million a year licensing rights to those works, according
to the complaint.  The Velvet Underground is seeking a judicial declaration
that the foundation has no copyright to the banana design, an
injunction barring the use of any merchandise using the artwork
and monetary damages. The group is requesting a  jury trial .  In the so-called Banana Album, the Velvets chronicled the
1960s hard-drug scene in songs written by Reed such as
“Heroin” and “I’m Waiting for the Man.” Released by MGM
Records, the album was a commercial failure, the complaint
states. The catalog of MGM became part of  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s Universal
Music Group, which has re-released the album.  The case is The Velvet Underground v. The Andy Warhol
Foundation for the Visual Arts, 12-0201, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Microsoft Sues Gome, Buynow Over Pirated Software in  China   Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) , the world’s biggest software company, sued
Shanghai Gome Electrical Appliances Co. in China, alleging the
retailer had offered computers with pirated versions of its
Windows and Office programs.  The lawsuit against Gome was filed at the Shanghai Huangpu
District People’s Court, the Redmond, Washington-based company
said in an e-mailed statement dated Jan. 6. Separately,
Microsoft sued  Clevo Co. (2362) ’s Buynow retail unit at a court in
Beijing, according to the statement.  Microsoft is boosting efforts to counter unauthorized use
of its software in China, which surpassed the U.S. last year as
the world’s biggest market for personal computers. About 78
percent of software in China was pirated in 2010, according to
estimates by the Business Software Alliance.  Two computer vendors with stores in a Buynow mall in
Beijing were offering products with pirated Microsoft software,
the U.S. company said.  Philip Cheung, an investor relations manager at Hong Kong-
listed  Gome Electrical Appliances Holdings Ltd. (493) , couldn’t
confirm if Shanghai Gome is a unit of his company, or is
privately owned by founder  Huang Guangyu . He declined to comment
on the case.  Buynow has measures to curb  intellectual property 
infringement by vendors at its malls, and “regrets” the legal
action by Microsoft, Buynow said in an e-mailed statement.  For copyright news, click here.  Patents  EU’s Barnier Says Deal Needed on Location of Patent Tribunal  Michel Barnier, the European Union’s financial services
commissioner, said he was “launching an appeal” to the U.K.,
 France  and  Germany  to settle the location of a court that would
rule on disputes concerning the region’s planned single patent.  Governments have agreed “all the most complex details” on
the patent except the location of the main court, Barnier said
in an e-mailed statement. EU companies have been waiting for the
patent for 30 years, he said.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Oakland Trib Tells Occupy Oakland to Quit Using Newspaper’s Name  The Occupy Oakland movement has received a cease-and-desist
letter from counsel for  MediaNews Group (MNWG) ’s Bay Area News Group.  The media organization, which published the Oakland Tribune
newspaper, objects to its use of “Occupied Oakland Tribune” as
a banner headline on its  www.occupiedoaktrib.org  website.  In  the Jan. 6 letter  Andrew Huntington, the Bay Area News
Group’s general counsel, noted that the Oakland Tribune has been
in existence for more than 100 years, and has registered
“Oakland Tribune” as a trademark with the U.S. Patent and
Trademark Office.  Huntington says the unauthorized use of the newspaper’s
name by the Occupy group creates confusion in the marketplace
and diminished the value of its name. He demanded that the group
immediately cease using “Oakland Tribune” and “Oakland Trib”
in any materials related to the “Occupied” movement.
Additionally, he asked that the website be disabled or be
transferred to the newspaper.  When accessed yesterday, www.occupiedoaktrib.org was still
operating and had the “Occupied Oakland Tribune” banner. The
site is calling for a Labor Solidarity Day rally Jan. 15 at what
Occupy Oakland calls “Oscar Grant Plaza.” The plaza, in front
of the Oakland,  California , city hall was given this name by the
movement in memory of Oscar Grant, who was shot and killed by
transit police in 2009.  Customs Seizes 18,000 Counterfeit High Tech Devices at Laredo  About 18,000 counterfeit items were seized by customs
officials at the Laredo, Texas point of entry,  Associated Press 
 reported .  They included digital camcorders with memory cards, car
radios and parts, and CD and MP3players, AP reported.  Customs officials said if the items were genuine, they
would be worth more than $782,000, according to AP.  For more trademark news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 