-- ’Wash Trades,’ India Gold, Ernst & Young: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-06-25T12:24:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/-wash-trades-india-gold-ernst-young-compliance.html
High-frequency trading firms are
drawing scrutiny from U.S. regulators seeking evidence that they
may be distorting market prices by conducting transactions with
themselves, said two people with knowledge of the matter.  So-called wash trades, in which a party buys a contract
from itself, could be executed inadvertently by firms with
multiple algorithms active in the same stock or derivative, said
the people, who requested anonymity because the review isn’t
public. Such trades, which can alter the price of shares if they
are executed above or below market rates, would be illegal if
deemed intentional efforts to manipulate stocks.  The Securities and Exchange Commission and Commodity
Futures Trading Commission have sharpened their focus on high-
frequency and algorithmic trading since May 6, 2010, when about
$862 billion was erased from stock values in 20 minutes before
share prices recovered from the plunge. Regulators have
expressed concern that some firms and electronic exchanges don’t
have sufficient controls to prevent a range of events -- from
improper trades to programming glitches -- that could roil
markets even when there is no wrongdoing.  High-frequency trading, in which computer algorithms are
used to buy and sell stocks in fractions of a second, accounts
for more than half of equity trading volume.  The CFTC has been considering issuing a so-called concept
release, a step prior to a formal rulemaking, which could lead
to new testing, supervision and oversight requirements for high-
frequency and automated trading.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  EU Ministers Clear Way for Transaction Tax in Some States  European Union finance ministers cleared the way for a
financial-transaction tax to move forward in at least nine
member states after Austria said deadlock among all 27 could
threaten the euro area’s rescue fund.  The European Commission’s tax proposal “does not, as
required, have unanimous support,” Danish Economy Minister
 Margrethe Vestager , whose country holds the EU’s rotating
presidency, said during a meeting in Luxembourg. Now that an
impasse has been acknowledged, a smaller group of as few as nine
nations can propose to coordinate a tax among themselves.  Germany and Austria on June 22 said a transaction tax needs
to move forward in some form so their lawmakers will approve the
500 billion-euro ($627 billion) European Stability Mechanism for
it to start July 9 as planned. Austrian Finance Minister Maria
Fekter urged nations to sign up to the next steps.  Negotiations for a tax among all 27 EU nations foundered
because of staunch opposition from the U.K., the Netherlands and
others. The European Commission last year proposed a broad-based
tax on stocks, bonds, derivatives and other transactions that
could raise an estimated 57 billion euros annually.  EU Tax Commissioner Algirdas Semeta June 22 said a move to
so-called enhanced cooperation among willing nations would be
better than no tax at all. Now potential participants need to
formally submit a transaction tax proposal with more specifics
on how it would work, which must be considered by the commission
and all 27 nations before the plan can progress.  For more, click here and click here.  EU May Scrap Planned Rules for Overseas Investment Companies  European Union nations may scrap plans to set uniform rules
on the right of overseas-based investment companies to offer
services inside the 27-nation bloc.  Officials from a number of governments have called for the
plan to be abandoned, Denmark, which holds the rotating EU
presidency, said in a  document  posted on the bloc’s website. The
measure was unveiled last year by  Michel Barnier , the EU
financial services commissioner, as part of a broader overhaul
of market regulation.  “Several member states have expressed serious concerns and
have strong reservations,” according to the document, dated
June 20. EU and U.S. regulators have struggled to align their
implementation of international agreements to strengthen the
resilience of financial markets, with banks warning that
inconsistencies or overlapping rules may increase costs and give
foreign competitors an advantage.  The final version of the draft law, known as Mifid, must be
approved by governments and the European Parliament before it
can go into effect.  Barnier proposed last year that banks and other investment
companies based outside the EU should be subject to a so-called
equivalence test to determine if they should be granted access
to clients in the region. The test would assess whether the
company’s home regulator applied rules as strict as those in the
EU. Should access be granted, the firm would have a “passport”
to operate across all 27 countries.  For more, click here.  Money-Market Fund Overhaul Said to Get SEC Vote as Soon as July  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission members may vote as
soon as next month on a proposal to overhaul regulation of the
$2.5 trillion money-market fund industry, according to a person
with knowledge of the matter.  The SEC’s five commissioners are expected to receive a
formal proposal this week prepared by staff in the agency’s
investment management division, according to the person, who
isn’t authorized to speak publicly about internal planning.
Commissioners typically spend at least a month reviewing staff
proposals before voting on them, the person said.  “It’s premature to talk about next steps before the
Commissioners have had an opportunity to review an actual
proposal and give it some thought,” John Nester, an SEC
spokesman, said June 22 in an e-mail statement.  SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  has faced opposition from the
fund industry and within the commission as she seeks changes to
restore investor confidence shaken by the 2008 credit crisis.  U.S. money funds held a combined $2.5 trillion in assets on
June 20, according to the Investment Company Institute, a
Washington-based trade group. The largest funds include  JPMorgan
Prime Money Market Fund (CJPXX) ,  Fidelity Cash Reserves (FDRXX)  and  Vanguard
Prime Money Market Fund. (VMMXX)   For more, click here.  Compliance Action  Gold Financiers’ Growth Stalls as Rules Tighten in India  India’s biggest lenders that use gold jewelry as collateral
say earnings may stall this year as central bank regulation
aimed at reducing risk in the banking system chokes off growth.  Net income  at  Muthoot Finance Ltd. (MUTH)  may rise 10 percent in
the year that started April 1 after surging an average 86
percent in the past five years, according to Managing Director
George Alexander Muthoot. Profit at smaller rival  Manappuram
Finance Ltd. (MGFL)  may be little changed, said I. Unnikrishnan,
managing director at the Thrissur, India-based company.  Muthoot and Manappuram are losing clients to money lenders
after the  Reserve Bank  of India tightened rules to curb
expansion at the finance companies and reduce risk at their
creditors, mainly commercial banks. Manappuram will add no
branches on a net basis this year while Muthoot will cut office
openings by 75 percent. Manappuram has plunged 47 percent this
year making it the worst performing stock in the  BSE200 Index. (BSE200)   The Reserve Bank of India ordered gold financiers to raise
Tier-1 capital to 12 percent by 2014 and cap loans at 60 percent
of the value of the gold used as collateral, according to a
statement from the regulator on March 21. The Reserve Bank set
up a panel to analyze the implication of gold imports. The panel
is expected to submit its report by the end of July, the central
bank said.  Indians, the world’s largest buyers of bullion, have
stashed 18,000 metric tons of gold in jewelry, coins and other
forms, according to data on Manappuram’s website.  For more, click here.  Ernst & Young Cleared by U.K. Regulator Over Lehman Reports  Ernst & Young LLP won’t face sanctions in Britain over the
way it dealt with Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s off-balance
sheet transactions in 2007, the country’s accounting regulator
said.  The probe that started in June 2010 found no wrongdoing by
the firm in its accounting for Lehman’s so-called Repo 105 and
Repo 108 transactions, which helped the bank raise short-term
funds before its collapse, the  Financial Reporting Council  said
June 22 on its website.  Gareth Rees, a lawyer for the regulator’s Accountancy and
Actuarial Discipline Board, said in the statement that “no
action should be taken against Ernst & Young LLP or any
individuals in connection with their conduct in this matter.”  The probe began after revelations the repurchase deals
helped Lehman downplay its leverage in late 2007 and 2008. A
2,200-page report on the bank’s collapse, filed in March 2010 by
bankruptcy examiner Anton Valukas in New York, said Ernst &
Young could be accused of “professional malpractice” for its
role in auditing New York-based Lehman.  “Ernst & Young welcomes the decision by the AADB to close
this matter with no further action to be taken, confirming our
belief in the quality of our audit work,” Vicky Conybeer, a
spokeswoman for the company, said in an e-mailed statement.  The regulator is still probing the accounting firm’s
preparation of reports on the Lehman unit’s compliance with U.K.
rules governing the protection of client money.  U.S. Extends Comment Period for Fracking Disclosure Standards  The Obama administration extended the time for public
comment on draft standards for hydraulic fracturing, which may
delay a final rule that would require natural-gas producers to
disclose the chemicals they use.  The Interior Department will add 60 days to the comment
period, spokesman Adam Fetcher said in an e-mail June 22.
Comments had been due by July 10.  U.K. Financial Regulator to Probe Swaps, Sunday Telegraph Says  The U.K.’s  Financial Services Authority  will say on June 29
that it has discovered that some of the country’s banks
inappropriately sold complex interest-rate derivatives to small
businesses, the  Sunday Telegraph  said.  Banks expect the regulator to formally investigate the
matter, which would take at least a year and could lead to
financial penalties for banks and bans on any bankers who
violated FSA rules, the newspaper said, without saying where it
got the information. Lenders could also be pressed to agree to
compensate any victims of misselling, according to the report.  Courts  UBS Sued by Pension Plan Over $2.3 Billion Trading Loss  UBS AG (UBSN)  was sued in a New York by a pension plan over a $2.3
billion trading loss reported last year that the bank blamed on
an alleged rogue trader.  The lawsuit is based on the Swiss bank’s disclosure that a
former trader, Kweku Adoboli, engaged in unauthorized trades on
behalf of UBS resulting in that loss. Shares fell more than
10 percent on Sept. 15 after that disclosure.  UBS knew or recklessly disregarded evidence that its
internal controls were insufficient, the pension plans alleged.
They’re seeking group status on behalf of those who traded UBS
securities on a U.S. exchange from March 15, 2011, to Sept. 15,
2011, plus an award of unspecified money damages.  Christiaan Brakman, a spokesman for the Zurich-based bank,
declined to comment on the lawsuit allegations.  Adoboli, 32, was released from a London prison on June 13
after meeting bail. He has pleaded not guilty. A trial is
scheduled for September of this year.  The case is C.D.T.S. No. 1 and A.T.U. Local 1321 Pension
Plan v. UBS AG, 12-cv-04924, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-BAE Lobbyist Charged With Money Laundering in Austria  A former  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  lobbyist was charged in Austria
with money laundering and perjury in relation to allegations he
paid bribes to officials in eastern and central Europe for
weapons contracts.  Alfons Mensdorff-Pouilly received 12.6 million euros ($15.7
million) that had been withdrawn from the London-based defense
contractor through fake contracts, Thomas Vecsey, a spokesman
for Austrian prosecutors said in a statement.  U.K. prosecutors previously dropped similar charges against
Mensdorff-Pouilly in 2010. Mensdorff-Pouilly’s lawyer, Harald
Schuster, said the allegations are “old hat” and that his
client is innocent.  Leonie Foster, a spokeswoman for BAE Systems, said that the
company had no comment.  ICP, Founder Priore Lose Bid to Dismiss SEC Fraud Claims  A federal judge refused to dismiss claims against ICP Asset
Management LLC and its founder,  Thomas Priore , in a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission lawsuit alleging fraudulent
sales of debt securities.  U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  denied the defendants’
motion for partial summary judgment on some of the SEC’s claims,
according to a filing June 21 in Manhattan. The case is expected
to go to trial, according to court papers.  The SEC accused ICP and Priore in 2010 of making fraudulent
transactions involving “tens of millions of dollars” of
collateralized debt obligations related to mortgage-backed
securities. The fraud “caused clients to overpay” for the
securities, the SEC said.  ICP and Priore said the securities involved in the case
were not bought and sold in the U.S. Kaplan said in his opinion
that sufficient evidence was shown to “at least permit the
inference” that the trades complained of were domestic
transactions.  The SEC is pleased with the ruling,  John Nester , a
spokesman for the agency, said in an e-mail.  Anne Rucker, a lawyer for ICP and Priore, didn’t
immediately respond to messages seeking comment on the decision.  The case is SEC v. ICP, 10-cv-4791, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Ex-General Re Executives ‘Resolve’ U.S. Case, Filing Says  Four former executives at General Reinsurance Corp. and one
at  American International Group Inc. (AIG) , facing a retrial on
accounting fraud charges, reached a resolution of the criminal
case, according to a court filing.  The filing June 22 by the U.S. Justice Department in
federal court in Connecticut doesn’t specify the resolution with
prosecutors.  Former General Re Chief Executive Officer Ronald Ferguson,
ex-Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth Monrad, ex-Senior Vice
President Christopher Garand, ex-Assistant General Counsel
Robert Graham, and former AIG Vice President Christian Milton
faced a Jan. 22 retrial on charges of defrauding AIG investors.  The U.S. Court of Appeals in New York in August ordered a
new trial, reversing the executives’ 2008 convictions.
Prosecutors said their scheme involved a sham transaction in
2000 and 2001 to inflate AIG’s loss reserves by $500 million.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 06-cr-137, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Hartford).  Interviews  Germany Says Joint Euro-Area Debt Requires Common Oversight  The German government reiterated its rejection of joint
euro-area bonds before a European summit this week, saying that
shared liability for debt must come with common oversight.  “The euro is in a difficult phase,” Steffen Seibert,
 Chancellor Angela Merkel ’s chief spokesman, told reporters in
Berlin today, when asked about Italian borrowing costs. “The
high yields that some countries have to pay are part of these
difficulties. The German government is well aware of that.”  “But the chancellor is concerned that the wish for
allegedly easy ways out is voiced again and again in the days
leading up to” the European Union summit on June 28-29, he
said.  Germany opposes calls for joint liability out of “the
deepest economic and political conviction that liability and
oversight go hand in hand,” Seibert said.  Lipton Says Europe Deposit Insurance to Avoid Bank Runs  David Lipton , first deputy managing director at the
 International Monetary Fund , discussed the need for a shared
deposit insurance program in Europe to help avoid bank runs,
Spain’s bank bailout and euro bonds.  He spoke with  Ryan Chilcote  on the sidelines of the  St.
Petersburg International Economic Forum .  For the video, click here.  U.S. Bank Derivative Exposure ‘Massive,’ Zervos Says  David Zervos, market strategist at Jefferies & Co., talked
about the downgrade of 15 global banks by Moody’s Investors
Service and the outlook for the U.S. financial industry.  He spoke with Erik Shatzker and Stephanie Ruhle on
Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers.”  For the video, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New York at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  