-- Labor Slips in Australia Poll on Anniversary of Gillard Coup
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-06-25T00:14:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/labor-slips-in-australia-poll-on-anniversary-of-gillard-coup-1-.html
Australia ’s minority Labor
government is slipping further behind the Liberal-National
opposition in opinion polls, two years after Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  ousted her predecessor in a party coup.  Labor’s primary vote fell 1 percentage point to 30 percent,
while support for the opposition Liberal-National coalition
increased 2 points to 46 percent, according to a  Newspoll 
published in today’s Australian newspaper. On a two-party
preferred basis, which takes into account the country’s
preferential voting system, the opposition’s lead widened by 2
points to a 10-point margin.  Gillard, who is still ahead of Liberal-National coalition
leader  Tony Abbott  as preferred prime minister, is betting she
can turn around her government’s performance in the polls before
an election due by November next year amid increased benefit
payments to low and middle-income households. After defeating
her predecessor  Kevin Rudd  in a leadership ballot in February,
her minority government has been weakened by lawmaker scandals
that have eroded Labor’s control of parliament.  “The problem for the government is it’s running out of
time to turn these polls around and avoid an election wipeout,”
said Zareh Ghazarian, a political analyst at  Monash University 
in  Melbourne . “Voters have stopped listening to Gillard.”  The Newspoll survey of 1,146 people, conducted June 22-24,
had a margin of error of plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Support for Labor hit a record low of 26 percent in a Newspoll
survey taken on Sept. 16-18 last year. In a poll conducted June
18-20, 2010, days before Gillard toppled Rudd, Labor trailed the
coalition by 5 points in the primary vote.  Minority Government  Parliament resumes in Canberra today for the final sitting
week before a six-week hiatus, with debate expected to focus on
the impact of new taxes on  carbon emissions  and the
ramifications of Labor’s policy on asylum seekers after a boat
filled with refugees traveling to Australia sank in Indonesian
waters four days ago, leaving as many as 90 people missing.  Gillard cobbled together a minority government in September
2010 after the closest election in seven decades with support
from independents and Greens, who pledged their vote in
parliament. The price they extracted was for Australia’s first
female prime minister to backtrack on her pledge not to create a
tax on carbon.  “This is the second anniversary of the ascension to the
prime ministership of Julia Gillard,” Abbott told reporters in
Melbourne yesterday. “At the time, she said it was necessary to
make the change because ‘a good government had lost its way.’
It’s now clearly a bad government which is just getting worse
and if there is one thing which symbolizes the failure of this
government, it is the carbon tax.”  Surplus Bid  Gillard’s government in May forecast it will end four years
of deficits with an A$1.54 billion ($1.55 billion) surplus for
the year starting July 1.  Australia expects to raise A$24.7 billion in four years
from the carbon tax, as the government seeks to reduce emissions
and spur investment in cleaner energy. The mining tax will reap
about A$6.5 billion in revenue over two years from companies
including  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  and Rio Tinto Group, government
estimates show.  Abbott also has been seeking to undermine the government’s
one-seat majority in parliament. He’s called for the resignation
of Craig Thomson from parliament after the former Labor
lawmaker, whose vote Gillard relies on to pass laws, dismissed
allegations he used a union credit card to pay for prostitutes.  Tony Crook , a National party member of parliament for
 Western Australia  who voted as an independent, in May withdrew
his support for the government.  Peter Slipper , the parliamentary
speaker on whom Gillard had relied to solidify her control of
the house, in April stepped aside to deal with fraud and sexual
harassment claims that he denies.  “If Gillard doesn’t get any traction from the cash
handouts from the carbon tax, and especially if she slips
further in the polls in the next couple of months, the party
will start agitating for another leadership challenge,”
Ghazarian said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  