-- Abu Dhabi Fund Long-Term Returns Drop on Global Decline
-- B y   M a h m o u d   K a s s e m   a n d   A r i f   S h a r i f
-- 2012-06-25T18:13:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/abu-dhabi-wealth-fund-long-term-returns-drop-on-global-decline.html
The  Abu Dhabi  Investment Authority,
one of the world’s biggest sovereign wealth funds, said its
long-term returns in 2011 dropped as global equity markets fell.  The fund has a 20-year annual rate of return of 6.9 percent
and a 30-year rate of return of 8.1 percent as of the end of
last year, it  said in its annual report . That compares with 20-
year and 30-year annual returns of 7.6 percent and 8.1 percent
respectively at the end of 2010.  “Despite many twists and turns, the global economy
continued its recovery last year,” Managing Director Hamed bin Zayed  Al Nahyan  said in the review. “Economic activity was
affected by a number of serious shocks, most notably the tragic
events in  Japan , and the financial stress surrounding the
sovereign debt crisis in  Europe .”  The MSCI ACWI Index (MXWD) , a free-float weighted equity index
that includes both emerging and developed world markets, fell
9.4 percent in 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
 The MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 20 percent last year.  ADIA, which invests a minimum of 10 percent and maximum of
20 percent in emerging market equities, said it expects emerging
market equities to outperform developed markets because of more
attractive valuations.  Developed Markets  ADIA’s report doesn’t disclose the value of its assets
although it provides a breakdown of its holdings by asset class
and regions. No changes were made in 2011 to the allocations
ADIA makes to the 10 asset classes in its portfolio. Developed
markets continued to have the largest allocation with a minimum
of 35 percent and a maximum of 45 percent weighting in its
portfolio.  Between 10 percent to 20 percent is in  government bonds ,
and as much as 10 percent is dedicated to real estate, credit
and so-called alternative assets such as  hedge funds  and managed
funds, according to the report.  “With the current level of government bond yields, the
valuation of global equities remains attractive for long-term
investors in general and especially in the  emerging markets 
space,” the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority said in its 2011
annual review today. “Indeed, emerging markets have already
outperformed their developed peers over the past decade and we
expect this to continue.”  ADIA said it expects central banks such as those in  China 
and  India  to continue with their counter-cyclical monetary
policies.  The Abu Dhabi-based wealth fund also said that it combined
its four geographically-focused “external equities”
departments into two: the Indexed Funds Departments, which
includes all the passively-managed equity portfolios and the
External Equities department which comprises all the fund’s
external actively-managed portfolios.  Abu Dhabi, capital of the United Arab Emirates and home to
about 7 percent of the world’s proven oil reserves, is trying to
diversify away from oil by investing globally. ADIA and its
Norwegian and Chinese peers are the three largest sovereign
wealth funds in the world, managing more than $1 trillion among
them, London-based research firm Preqin Ltd. said in March 2010.  IMF Estimates  The global economy expanded 3.9 percent in 2011 after
growing 5.3 percent in 2010, according to estimates from the
 International Monetary Fund . The Standard & Poor’s 500 share
index gained 2.1 percent in 2011 as the  U.S. economy  grew 1.7
percent down from 3 percent growth in 2010, the IMF said.  Abu Dhabi, the biggest of seven emirates in the U.A.E., set
up ADIA in 1976 to manage proceeds from its oil wealth. ADIA
doesn’t invest in the U.A.E. or typically in the Gulf Arab
region. It had assets valued at $328 billion at the end of 2008,
according to economists at the New York-based Council on Foreign
Relations.  ADIA increased its headcount to 1,275 in 2011 from 1,200 in
2010, the report said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mahmoud Kassem in Cairo at 
 mkassem1@bloomberg.net ;
Arif Sharif in Dubai at 
 asharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Riad Hamade at 
 rhamade@bloomberg.net  