-- Madoff Investor Appeal Won’t Be Heard by Supreme Court
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-25T15:23:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/madoff-investor-appeal-won-t-be-heard-by-supreme-court.html
The U.S. Supreme Court won’t hear an
appeal by  Bernard Madoff ’s investors over whether they can
recover lost profit, an action that lets stand the Madoff
trustee’s calculation that investors lost $17 billion.  The investors asked the top court for a hearing after
federal appeals judges in New York said in August it would be
“absurd” to treat fictitious paper profits as real, upholding
a lower court ruling. Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  held back on
distributing more money from a $2.3 billion fund for the con
man’s customers, not knowing if he must pay 4 cents on the
dollar each to the larger pool of investors, or about 13 cents
to those who lost principal.  The end of the line for the appellants means the payments
can resume to customers who lost principal, Picard said in a
statement today. Picard, who has distributed just $333 million
to customers in the 3 1/2 years since Madoff’s 2008 arrest, will
ask a judge to approve a second distribution “within an
expedited time frame,” he said.  “I think the trustee is very sympathetic to investors and
it will be at least a dime,” or a total of $1.8 billion, said
 Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT
Capital Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt,
including the Madoff brokerage’s.  Picower Settlement  Picard said the potential distribution may swell if there
are no further challenges by July 16 to his $5 billion
settlement with  Jeffry Picower ’s estate. In all, Madoff
customers have recovered a total of $1.1 billion, including his
first distribution and the Securities Investor Protection
Corp.’s $801 million payments to customers, he said.  Asking the top court to hear their appeal, Madoff investors
who took more money from their accounts than they put in --
including the owners of the New York Mets baseball team --argued
that securities laws require Picard to use their account
statements to calculate their losses, and compensate them
accordingly.  Lower court judges said Picard can ignore fictitious
profits on Ponzi money, and calculate losses by looking at how
much of an actual investment disappeared -- money put in minus
money taken out.  Appeal Dropped  The Mets owners dropped their appeal to the  Supreme Court 
after settling a lawsuit against them by Picard.  Before conferring June 21 on whether to hear the appeal,
the Supreme Court justices asked the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to file papers on whether Picard is using
the right formula to compensate investors.  The SEC said he was. Moreover, the subject wasn’t of great
importance to the nation, and doesn’t justify attention from the
U.S.’s top court, the SEC said. In the past 18 years, only seven
Ponzi schemes have been liquidated, it said.  “Petitioners thus do not present an issue of recurring
significance warranting this court’s review,” the SEC said in a
May filing, made on its behalf by the U.S. Solicitor General,
who supervises government cases before the high court.  How Ponzi investors should be paid “turns on the details
of a particular fraudulent scheme,” with little application for
the majority of investors, the SEC said.  “Purported increases in the value of customers’ accounts,
moreover, were entirely fictitious,” validating the lower court
rulings, it said.  Picard’s Formula  Picard’s formula for compensating victims is to figure
their loss of principal, then allot them a share of the money he
says he has raised by suing or settling with investors who
allegedly knew of the fraud. Investors with net gains, who took
out more money than they put in, have to wait until net losers
get paid in full.  Most of the $9 billion that Picard has won in settlements,
including the $5 billion from Picower’s estate, has been
unavailable for disbursement because of court challenges. He has
set aside $2.3 billion for customers, which is now mostly
available.  The trustee, who filed more than 1,000 lawsuits claiming
$100 billion, said last year he hoped to raise enough money to
pay all investors back in full, including those with false
profits on the account statements. Since then, federal judges
led by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in  New York  have dismissed
about $90 billion of Picard’s claims.  Reflecting poor payment prospects, larger claims on the
Madoff brokerage’s estate have fallen from about 70 cents on the
dollar last year, to about 58 to 62 cents, said Sarachek at CRT
Capital Group.  Picard and his  law firm  have charged $273 million for their
Madoff work so far. Madoff is in jail, serving a 150-year
sentence for fraud.  Investor Larry Velvel’s appeal is Velvel v. Picard,
11-00986, U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ). The main case is
Securities Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff
Investment Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court ,
Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net 
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  