-- Madoff Customer Pool May Grow to $7.3 Billion by July 16
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-06-25T21:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/madoff-customer-pool-may-grow-to-7-billion-by-july-16-1-.html
The liquidator of  Bernard Madoff ’s
brokerage, who said today he is planning a second payment to
 Ponzi scheme  victims, might have $5 billion more by next month
to increase a planned payout from a $2.3 billion customer fund.  Madoff trustee  Irving Picard  announced the possible
increase in a statement after the U.S. Supreme Court refused to
hear an appeal by investors seeking compensation for lost
profit. That decision frees most of a $2.3 billion customer fund
by reducing the scheme’s calculated total to about $17 billion
covering only lost investments and excluding so-called fake
profit that would have raised the total to $57 billion.  Another $5 billion may be available from a 2010 settlement
with Jeffry Picower’s estate if that deal isn’t challenged again
by July 16, Picard said.  Adele Fox, the main challenger to the Picower deal, doesn’t
plan another appeal to the key court ruling that restricted
Picard’s access to the $5 billion, said Fox’s lawyer, Jim
Beasley.  “Picard gets the money,” Beasley said today in a phone
interview. “I don’t know the time frame.”  Picard, who so far has paid the con man’s investors $333
million in 3 ½ years, said today he would ask a judge to approve
a second distribution “within an expedited time frame.”  Escrow Agent  Most of the $9 billion that Picard has won in settlements,
including Picower’s $5 billion, has been unavailable for
disbursement because of court challenges. Picard has set aside
$2.3 billion for customers, not including the Picower money. The
escrow agent holding the money forfeited by Picower will release
it if shown a final non-appealable court order upholding the
deal, according to court filings by Picard that detail the 2010
settlement.  Picower, one of the largest of Madoff’s investors, may have
suspected the con man was running a Ponzi scheme, according to
Picard’s lawsuit against him. Picower drowned in 2009, and his
estate forfeited $2.2 billion to the U.S. and $5 billion to
Picard. Fox, after losing her latest bid to reverse the
forfeiture, had until July 16 to ask the  Supreme Court  to let
her appeal again. She won’t make the request, Beasley said.  In a separate case, Fox, acting for herself and others who
have little prospect of getting paid by Picard, will continue to
challenge the Picower deal, which is the trustee’s biggest
settlement with a former Madoff investor, Beasley said. If
successful, she may still get some of the Picower money back, he
said.  “These are people who suffered real damages and have valid
claims,” Beasley said. “Picard has determined that they
shouldn’t get paid.”  Suing Investors  In April, Fox appealed a U.S. District Court ruling that
affirmed the Picower settlement. Like other investors who took
more money out of the con man’s brokerage than they put in, she
wants the right to sue allegedly fraudulent Madoff investors for
compensation. Picard’s settlements bar them from doing that.  Picard has held back on distributing more money from the
$2.3 billion fund for the con man’s customers, not knowing if he
must pay 4 cents on the dollar each to investors who lost $57
billion including profits, or about 13 cents to those who lost
$17 billion of principal. The Supreme Court action today settled
that question.  Sympathetic Trustee  “I think the trustee is very sympathetic to investors and
it will be at least a dime,” or a total of $1.8 billion, that
goes to investors from the current customer fund, said  Joseph Sarachek , managing director of claims trading at CRT Capital
Group LLC, which buys and sells distressed debt, including the
Madoff brokerage’s.  Larry Velvel and other investors -- including the owners of
the  New York  Mets baseball team -- had asked the top court for a
hearing after federal appeals judges in New York said in August
it would be “absurd” to treat fictitious paper profits as
real, upholding a lower court ruling. The investors argued that
securities laws require Picard to use their account statements
to calculate their losses, and compensate them accordingly.  Before conferring June 21 on whether to hear the appeal,
the Supreme Court justices asked the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission to file papers on whether Picard is using
the right formula to compensate investors.  The SEC said he was. Moreover, the subject wasn’t of great
importance to the nation, and doesn’t justify attention from the
U.S.’s top court, the SEC said. In the past 18 years, only seven
Ponzi schemes have been liquidated, it said.  SEC Filing  “Petitioners thus do not present an issue of recurring
significance warranting this court’s review,” the SEC said in a
May filing, made on its behalf by the U.S. Solicitor General,
who supervises government cases before the high court.  How Ponzi investors should be paid “turns on the details
of a particular fraudulent scheme,” with little application for
the majority of investors, the SEC said.  “Purported increases in the value of customers’ accounts,
moreover, were entirely fictitious,” validating the lower court
rulings, it said.  Picard’s formula for compensating victims is to figure
their loss of principal, then allot them a share of the money he
says he has raised by suing or settling with investors who
allegedly knew of the fraud. Investors with net gains, who took
out more money than they put in, have to wait until net losers
get paid in full.  Thousand Lawsuits  The trustee, who filed more than 1,000 lawsuits claiming
$100 billion, said last year he hoped to raise enough money to
pay all investors back in full, including those with false
profits on the account statements. Since then, federal judges
led by U.S. District Judge Jed Rakoff in New York have dismissed
about $90 billion of Picard’s claims.  Picard and his  law firm  have charged $273 million for their
Madoff work so far. Madoff is in prison, serving a 150-year
sentence for fraud.  The docket for the Supreme Court appeal can be found in
Velvel v. Picard, 11-00986, U.S. Supreme Court ( Washington ). The
Madoff brokerage liquidation case is Securities Investor
Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC,
08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  