-- African Terrorist Groups Starting to Cooperate, U.S. Says
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-06-25T23:30:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/african-terrorist-groups-starting-to-cooperate-u-s-says.html
Three African terrorist groups are
seeking to “coordinate and synchronize” their operations, the
head of the U.S. military’s  Africa  Command said.  Army General Carter Ham said al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb, al-Shabaab in  Somalia , and Boko Haram in  Nigeria  are
increasingly trying to work together on the African continent.  “Each of these organizations is, by itself, a dangerous
and worrisome threat,” Ham yesterday told a leadership seminar
of the Africa Center for Strategic Studies, a Defense Department
center. “But what really concerns me is that the three
organizations are seeking to coordinate and synchronize their
efforts.”  The militant Sunni Muslim groups are starting to share
funds, training and explosive material to assist each other’s
efforts to establish Islamic regimes, he said.  While the coordination among terrorist groups in Africa is
a concern, there’s little evidence so far that such groups are
targeting the U.S. homeland, said Rick “Ozzie” Nelson, a
counter-terrorism specialist and former Navy helicopter pilot
who is now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies
in Washington.  “Right now, these groups are not threatening the U.S.
homeland in any way comparable to what al-Qaeda was doing three
or four or five years ago,” before drone strikes weakened the
militant group’s core, Nelson said.  Al-Shabaab is focused on creating an Islamic state in
Somalia. Boko Haram wants an Islamic state in Nigeria, and al-
Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb seeks Islamic governments
throughout the region, he said.  Local Focus  The focus of the groups “is quite local and regional at
this point,” as opposed to any collaborative effort to strike
the U.S., said Chester Crocker, a professor at  Georgetown
University  in Washington who was assistant secretary of state
for African affairs in President  Ronald Reagan ’s administration.  As drone strikes decimate the core al-Qaeda group in
 Pakistan  and a U.S.-backed government offensive in Yemen targets
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, U.S. counter-terrorism
officials increasingly are turning their attention to a swath of
northern Africa from Somalia to  Mauritania  and south into
Nigeria, according to administration officials.  It includes both populated areas and wild, ungoverned
spaces such as northern Mali, which one official compared to
 Afghanistan  in the 1990’s.  ‘Operating Unconstrained’  Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb is now “operating
essentially unconstrained” in a large portion of Mali, Ham
said. With an effective safe haven in  Mali , the al-Qaeda
affiliate “is an organization of growing concern,” he said.  Recent White House meetings on counter-terrorism have been
devoted largely to northern Africa, according to one
administration official who participates in them. The meetings
have included discussions on protecting Nigerian oil  production 
and  exports , developing local counter-terrorism programs, and
finding personnel with the necessary language skills, with
Nigeria’s Ibo at the top of the list, said the official, who
requested not to be identified because classified matters are
discussed at the meetings.  “From a pure counter-terrorism perspective, Africa is a
growing concern for sure,” said Nelson of CSIS. “Terrorists
need ungoverned spaces. They need resources.”  They have both in parts of northern Africa, where the
collapse of Muammar Qaddafi’s regime in  Libya  has sent aging
shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles, rocket-propelled grenades
and other weapons into terrorists’ hands in places where the
absence of effective governments has created safe havens for
terrorist groups.  ‘Witch’s Brew’  The ability of al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb to funnel
weapons and training to local militant groups such as Boko Haram
has “created a witch’s brew of opportunities for local
terrorist groups,” said Bruce Hoffman, director of the Center
for Peace and  Security Studies  at Georgetown University.  “Its ability to distribute largess and train other groups
has put it in a position of being a power broker,” Hoffman said
of the al-Qaeda affiliate in northern Africa. “It gives al-
Qaeda the opportunity, even while the center is being
pulverized, to expand the movement on the periphery and extend
its longevity.”  Even so, the U.S. isn’t planning to field a larger military
presence on the continent, Ham said. The U.S. has about 2,000
troops in  Djibouti , and otherwise has no large presence.  Africans Leading  The headquarters for Africa Command, one of six regionally
focused combatant commands, isn’t even in Africa. It’s in
Stuttgart,  Germany .  “A large permanent presence in the continent of Africa is
not, I think, what any of us desire,” Ham, Africa Command’s
second commander since its creation in 2007, said at the
seminar, which was held in Arlington,  Virginia , for an audience
primarily representing African nations.  The U.S. military can be more helpful by collecting and
passing on information to local leaders, with the consent of
host nations, Ham said.  “We’re better off when it is Africans leading, with a
little bit of training and support equipping from us,” Ham told
the House Armed Services Committee at a Feb. 29 hearing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in  Washington  at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  