-- Thain Wins Best Dad Award as Charities Honor Bankers
-- B y   M a x   A b e l s o n
-- 2012-06-25T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/thain-wins-best-dad-award-as-charities-honor-bankers.html
The master of ceremonies made a
mistake as he named  John Thain  one of the year’s finest dads,
introducing him as the chief executive officer of  Citigroup (C)  Inc.  “Vikram Pandit will be very unhappy,” Thain said,
accepting an award from Father’s Day/Mother’s Day Council Inc.
on June 14. “I’m actually the CEO of CIT, which is similar, but
not quite the same.”  The confusion was warranted. In the past two months, half a
dozen current and former bank chiefs have been honored in  New
York  along with Thain, the former CEO of Merrill Lynch & Co. who
arranged its 2008 sale to  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and left after
Merrill’s $15 billion loss forced the combined firm to seek more
government support.  Bank of America’s  Brian T. Moynihan ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s
 Jamie Dimon , Morgan Stanley’s James Gorman and Pandit are among
the bankers recognized since May 1, a day of international
protests against  Wall Street . Goldman Sachs Group Inc. President
Gary D. Cohn accepted an award for the firm that evening from
Friends of the High Line over hen-of-the-woods mushrooms and
slow-braised short ribs. Goldman Sachs and its employees have
given more than $6 million to the Manhattan park, he said.  “Look, the whole idea of these things is to raise money
for the charity,” Thain said in an interview after accepting
his Father of the Year award. “The demonization of Wall Street
and bankers is very much a function of the press and of
 Washington , and not much more broadly held.”  ‘Not Comfortable’  Nonprofits embrace bankers, often honoring them because of
their donations, said Naomi Levine, executive director of New
York University’s George H. Heyman Jr. Center for Philanthropy
and Fundraising.  “Does this make me happy? No, it doesn’t. I look at what
some of the banks and other insurance companies have done to the
American economy and I’m not comfortable with it,” said Levine,
who previously oversaw fundraising as an NYU executive. “You
try to balance your criticism of some of the things that Wall
Street has done with the need.”  Pandit, 55, was the most-feted of the bank CEOs. A trio of
June salutes began with  Chaka Khan  singing “I’m Every Woman”
and Lionel Richie performing “Three Times a Lady” at a gala
for Harlem’s Apollo Theater. Pandit received a corporate award
in recognition of the company’s support -- $1.6 million to the
Apollo Theater Foundation since 2002, according to Elizabeth
Fogarty, a bank spokeswoman. The foundation’s board is headed by
former Citigroup Chairman  Richard Parsons .  Cocktail Hour  A 22-piece Latin band and the singer Josh Groban performed
when Pandit was honored June 7 by Boys & Girls Harbor, which
runs a conservatory and school programs in Harlem. The bank and
its foundation have given more than $500,000 to the group since
1972, Fogarty said.  She said the lender has given the same amount since 2005 to
the Museum of the City of New York, which presented Pandit with
a leadership award at a June 18 black-tie dinner, where guests
had a private cocktail-hour viewing of an  exhibition  on the
history of New York banking. Citigroup is sponsoring the show to
mark the firm’s 200th anniversary, according to a press release.  “Citi has had a long and fulfilling relationship with
these institutions, and it is especially meaningful to be
honored during our 200th anniversary,” Pandit said in an e-
mail. “We are proud to support the great institutions that make
 New York City , our home for 200 years, a better place.”  Pandit’s $15 million pay package for 2011 didn’t get the
support of Citigroup shareholders, who rejected it in a non-
binding vote in April. The company’s stock has plunged more than
90 percent since Pandit became CEO in December 2007.  Dimon Honored  Dimon was named executive of the year by the University of
Rochester’s Simon Graduate School of Business at its May 3
 conference , “Economic Action and the Management of Risk.” The
honor is given to a leader who “demonstrates a deep respect for
our nation’s fiscal health,” according to the school’s  website .  A week later, Dimon, 56, disclosed a $2 billion trading
loss in a division that helps manage the firm’s risk.  “The developments don’t change our fundamental
assessment,” Mark Zupan, the school’s dean, said in an e-mail.
“If anything, the manner in which Mr. Dimon has handled the
adversity only has increased our esteem for him.”  The award wasn’t given because of donations, Zupan said.  Dimon was celebrated again on May 24 at the Salute to
Freedom gala, an annual fundraising dinner for New York’s
Intrepid Sea, Air and Space Museum held on the hangar deck of
the landmarked  aircraft carrier .  Foxhole Friends  “In a difficult situation you find out what people are
made of, who runs for help and who runs away, who takes
responsibility and who scapegoats others, who you can trust and
who makes it all about them,” Dimon said, according to a
transcript of his remarks. “To all the active military members
and veterans in the room: I’d go into the foxhole with any of
you, and I hope I wouldn’t let you down.”  Last year the bank agreed to pay $56 million to settle
claims that it overcharged soldiers on their mortgages and
improperly seized the homes of active-duty military personnel.
Dimon said then that he and the bank “deeply apologize.”  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s Gorman and  Bank of America ’s Moynihan were
lauded the same day Dimon was named best executive. Gorman,
wearing a tuxedo on the roof of the St. Regis Hotel, received an
award from International House, a New York residence for
graduate students. Moynihan was honored by the American Ireland
Fund in a Lincoln Center tent.  Best Dad  Former bankers have been celebrated too. Sanford I. Weill,
79, CEO of Citigroup after a 1998 merger that depended on the
government overturning a portion of the Depression-era Glass-
Steagall law, was honored May 7 by the National Academy
Foundation, a career-preparation group he founded. Pandit, a
successor at the bank, was co-chair of  the benefit .  At the  Father of the Year  awards at the Sheraton New York
Hotel, host Mark Shriver apologized for bungling his
introduction of Thain, 57, a former Goldman Sachs president who
has been CEO of  CIT (CIT)  Group Inc. since February 2010.  “I thought it was a misspelling,” said Shriver, senior
vice president of nonprofit Save the Children. “It said CIT --
I’m like, this has got to be Citi.”  The financial crisis hasn’t had much of an impact on honors
for bank chiefs, and the importance of raising money for charity
overshadows other aspects of benefits, like potentially awkward
conversations about business, Thain said after the event.  Ignoring Advice  “I don’t really mind people asking me questions,” he
said. “Whatever happened in 2008, 2009, there’s lots and lots
of misinformation, and things that are just wrong, but I’ve
never minded talking about it.”  Against his advice, Thain’s three children who have
graduated from college followed him into finance.  “I guess they’ve seen what I’ve been able to do and they
like it,” said Thain, who has a fourth child still in school.  Jeffrey Peek, Thain’s predecessor at CIT and its CEO when
the company filed for bankruptcy in 2009, was honored with his
wife at a February gala for the Citizens Committee for New York
City, which funds volunteer-led neighborhood groups.  School children sang “Bridge Over Troubled Water” to a
crowd that included  Paul Simon , the song’s writer. Peek oversaw
CIT’s expansion into subprime mortgages, leaving the firm after
it emerged from  bankruptcy protection . He is now vice chairman
of  investment banking  at Barclays Plc.  Peek declined to comment, according to  Kerrie Cohen , a
spokeswoman for London-based Barclays.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Max Abelson in New York at 
 mabelson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  