-- Ainslie Chases Olympic Sailing Record With Fourth Gold Medal
-- B y   K a r i   L u n d g r e n
-- 2012-06-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/ainslie-chases-olympic-sailing-record-with-fourth-gold-medal.html
Britain’s Ben Ainslie is pursuing
more than a gold medal at  London  2012 when he tries to match a
52-year-old record as the most-decorated Olympic sailor ever.  Ainslie , 35, is seeking a fourth consecutive gold medal
when he steps into his boat “Rita” on July 29 to compete in
the Finn class at this year’s games. A victory in English waters
would tie him with  Denmark ’s Paul Elvstrom, who was Olympic
champion from 1948 to 1960.  The Finn is among the oldest of the 10 sailing classes --
six for men and four for women -- that will be contested in
Weymouth Bay and Portland Harbor, 130 miles southwest of London,
during the 2012 Olympics. Ainslie has dominated the event since
2002, winning a record six Finn World Championship Gold Cups and
gold medals in Beijing and  Athens . His first gold was in a
lighter Laser during the Sydney games.  “The  Olympic Games  is a very special event,” Ainslie said
in an interview in Falmouth after winning the JPMorgan Asset
Management’s  Finn Gold Cup . “Having said that, you do
ultimately have to go out and race like you would anywhere else.
You can’t let the pressure of the event get to you.”  Ainslie will compete on June 30 in the annual JPMorgan
Asset Management  Round the Island  Race, a one-day event that
circles the Isle of Wight off the south coast of England.
JPMorgan Asset Management is Ainslie’s main sponsor, and he also
gets backing from British Airways and Volvo.  20-year Olympian  The son of a Whitbread Round the World skipper, Ainslie has
decades of experience in handling competitive pressure. He began
sailing off the coast of Cornwall in southwest  England  at the
age of eight. By 16, he won the world championships in a Laser
Radial, a single-handed, 14-foot sailing dingy. He won his first
Olympic medal, a silver, during the Atlanta Olympics in 1996 at
the age of 19.  “In our sport, you can only have one athlete in one event,
so Ben can’t sail in two or three events like athletes in other
sports,” British Olympic Team Manager  Stephen Park  said in a
June 13 interview in London. “Somebody who can come in and
deliver in their sport, in Ben’s case across 20 years, at
Olympic medalist level, they really are true Olympic
champions.”  Ainslie honed his technique in Lasers through 2000 and
spent 14 months sailing America’s Cup boats before transitioning
into Olympic Finn sailing, a move that meant adding more than 30
pounds to his 6-foot frame. He won his first Finn World
Championships in 2002.  ‘Out to Win’  Ainslie is known for his single-minded, “fairly
vociferous” style on the race course, Park said. During a
competition in Perth,  Australia , last year, he became so
frustrated with a media boat he dove off his dingy and boarded
the boat to confront a television crew. He was disqualified from
the event though avoided further sanctions.  “I wouldn’t say I’m overly aggressive, but certainly when
I’m racing, I’m out there to win,” he said. “It’s fierce. It’s
a competition like any other.”  Denmark’s Jonas Hogh-Christesen, the U.S.’ Zach Railey and
 Croatia ’s Ivan Kljakovic Gaspic are among the men to beat at the
Olympics, Ainslie said. Hogh-Christesen took third place at this
year’s Finn World Championships with a score of 64, while Railey
placed 10th with 93. Ainslie scored 10, 20 points ahead of his
nearest competitor,  Great Britain ’s Edward Wright.  Lowest Score  Olympic sailors in every event other than women’s match
racing compete in a series of races. Points in the first 10 are
awarded according to placing, with one for first and nine for
ninth. The accumulated score, minus the two worst finishes, are
used to qualify for the 11th medal race. Points scored in that
race are doubled and added to previous scores to determine the
final result.  Sailing became an Olympic event in 1900 and has featured in
every  Summer Olympics  since 1908. During the 1948 games, the
event took place in the  English Channel  off the town of Torquay,
200 miles west of London. Both men and women have competed since
the beginning, though specific classes have varied. This year’s
games will include the men’s Finn, Star, 49er and Laser classes.
The 6-meter Elliott and Laser Radial events are women-only. Both
men and women will sail in RS-X and 470 classes.  Ainslie said he would consider sailing in the two-man Star
class if it were included in the 2016 Olympics in Rio de
Janeiro. Winning in  Brazil  could make him the second Britain,
alongside rower Steve Redgrave, with five gold medals.  A 2016 Chance  “We think we know what those classes are, but there is
still a chance they may change very slightly,” Ainslie said. If
the Star class were included, “it might give me a chance to go
for 2016.”  In the meantime, Ainslie is focused on navigating the
English weather to be first across the finish line in Weymouth.  “I’m happy whatever the conditions are,” he said. “You
have to be that way because you can’t predict what the winds are
going to be, especially in the English summers which are
notoriously unpredictable. You have to be ready for anything.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kari Lundgren in London at 
 klundgren2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  