-- Airline Crash Deaths Too Few to Make New Safety Rules Pay
-- B y   A n d r e w   Z a j a c
-- 2012-06-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/airline-crash-deaths-too-few-to-make-new-safety-rules-pay.html
More than a decade has passed since
the last major-airline accident on U.S. soil. That’s great news
for aviation companies and their passengers -- and a
complication for rule makers trying to improve flight safety.  The benefits of aviation rules are calculated primarily on
how many deaths they may prevent, so the safest decade in modern
airline history is making it harder to justify the cost of new
requirements.  “If anyone wants to advance safety through regulation, it
can’t be done without further loss of life,” said William Voss,
chief executive officer of the Alexandria, Virginia-based Flight
Safety Foundation.  The last U.S. accident involving a large jetliner was in
November 2001, and only 140 airline passengers have been killed
since 2002. Most recently, 45 of those died in February 2009
when a commuter plane operated by  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCLQ) ’s
Colgan Air crashed near Buffalo,  New York . That accident raised
pilot-fatigue concerns and prompted the  Federal Aviation
Administration  to overhaul decades-old work rules.  A cost-benefit analysis is at the heart of a dispute
between the FAA and unions representing pilots of cargo carriers
such as  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS)  over the
scope of the new regulations, which take effect in January 2014.  The rules will limit the hours pilots fly, taking into
account the time of day they work as well as the number of
takeoffs and landings. First proposed by the FAA for both
passenger and cargo pilots, the rules were trimmed to exempt
freight carriers following review by the White House  Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs .  Outweigh Costs  The Obama administration, criticized by Republicans for
over-regulating business, has emphasized the need for benefits
of new rules to outweigh the costs.  Regulators concluded that the benefit of improving pilot
safety at freight airlines wasn’t worth the expense. Because
costs of crashes are based primarily on the value of lost lives
and freight airlines don’t carry passengers, losses are
inherently smaller in cargo accidents under the formula.  UPS pilots have sued to overturn the exemption and bills to
do the same thing have been introduced in the House and Senate.  “This marks a retreat from one level of safety,” said
Peter Goelz, an industry consultant and lobbyist who represents
the  Independent Pilots Association , the UPS pilots’ union.  Policy ‘Trumped’  “I can’t remember another time when cost trumped a policy
decision,” said Goelz, a former managing director of the
 National Transportation Safety Board .  The FAA last month said it discovered errors in
calculations that underestimated costs to the cargo industry.  Laura Brown , a FAA spokeswoman, declined to comment for
this story.  Freight carriers object to the new fatigue rules because
the costs are at least 10 times the benefits based on FAA data,
according to Stephen Alterman, president of the Washington-based
Cargo Airline Association. Cargo-airline pilots fly an average
of 30 hours a month, compared with 50 hours a month for
passenger-airline pilots, he said.  “What the hours-of-service rule would do is make us fly
less,” Alterman said in an interview.  “The fact flying is safe makes the benefit side of the
equation more difficult,” he said.  Airlines for America , a Washington-based commercial
aviation trade group, puts the cost of compliance for passenger
airlines at $8 billion over a decade and hasn’t offered a figure
for likely benefits.  Valuing Lives  The FAA  estimates  the new rules will cost passenger
airlines $297 million over 10 years, while saving $247 million
to $470 million in fewer accidents and lower pilot health-care
expenses.  The FAA places a value of $6.2 million on each life a rule
is projected to save.  The value-of-a-life calculation varies among government
agencies. The Environmental Protection Agency and the  Food and
Drug Administration , for example, use a value of $7.9 million.  The FAA number is based on studies of wage premiums people
receive for performing risky jobs, said  Kip Viscusi , a professor
of law, economics and management at  Vanderbilt University  in
Nashville,  Tennessee .  If a rule is expected to avert two deaths, it would be
worthwhile to impose if it cost less than $12.4 million,
according to Viscusi, who has consulted with the FAA and other
agencies on life and health valuations.  Fuel Tanks  Balancing risk and benefit also figured in crafting rules
to reduce the risk of fuel-tank explosions, like the one that
destroyed TWA Flight 800 on July 17, 1996. The accident, off
 Long Island , killed 230.  Final rules to improve fuel-tank safety weren’t issued
until 2008. They were delayed by opposition from some airlines
that argued they were unnecessary and too expensive. At the
time, the FAA estimated the cost of compliance at $165 million.  The rules were released after pushes from the  NTSB  and the
FAA over the misgivings of regulators including Susan Dudley,
who headed OIRA at the time.  “I remember asking, ‘if you had this much money, would
this be the best way to protect passenger safety?’” Dudley said
in an interview. “It clearly was not.”  Risk Decreases  The risk of a fatal accident in commercial aviation has
been reduced to 1 out of 49 million flights over the past five
years, from 1 in 1.7 million flights from 1975 to 1989,
according to NTSB records. That’s a 96 percent decrease in risk.  In the last U.S. accident involving a large jetliner, 265
people died when American Airlines Flight 587, an Airbus
A300-600, crashed shortly after takeoff from New York’s John F.
Kennedy International Airport on Nov. 12, 2001.  Safety has improved since the late 1990s as the  airline
industry  and regulators learned to analyze massive quantities of
data for anomalies and voluntarily made changes to head off
potential problems, according to Thomas Hendricks, Airlines for
America’s senior vice president for operations and safety.  “We go out and proactively address an issue prior to
waiting for an incident to occur,” Hendricks said in an
interview. “The information technology revolution has made this
possible.”  Regulation is needed, if only to ensure fairness within the
airline industry and promote the highest levels of safety, the 
 Flight Safety Foundation ’s Voss said.  Many U.S. carriers adhere to an international standard for
collecting and analyzing in-flight data. Because data monitoring
isn’t required by rule, a carrier can operate legally without
it, Voss said.  “You start building a gap between what’s safe and what’s
legal,” Voss said. “Why not make that a requirement for entry
into the marketplace?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Zajac in Washington at 
 azajac@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  