-- Hamptons Scene: Alec Baldwin, Nicole Miller, Marco Birch
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/hamptons-scene-alec-baldwin-nicole-miller-marco-birch.html
Addressing the  Group for the East
End  benefit Saturday night in Sagaponack,  Long Island ,  Alec Baldwin  implored Group President  Robert DeLuca  to expand the
scope of the Hamptons environmental nonprofit to the Greenwich
Village block where the actor lives and is attended by
paparazzi.  “Only Bob DeLuca can come in and clean up the
infestation,” joked Baldwin, who had an altercation with a
Daily News photographer on a Manhattan sidewalk days earlier.  The 54-year-old then needled the Group about its elevated
nesting platforms on poles for ospreys, the once-endangered fish
hawks that fly above area coastlines.  “God knows I need Bob DeLuca to shut up about these osprey
poles,” said Baldwin, who has a house in Amagansett, two towns
east. Within seconds, Baldwin raised about $34,000 to build new
osprey poles as 17 people raised their hands to contribute
$1,000 each and Baldwin said he’d match every dollar.  Under flowing white tents at the  Wolffer Estate , a vineyard
and stable, the evening grossed about $550,000 for the 40-year-
old advocacy and educational organization. Baldwin attended with
his fiancée, yoga teacher  Hilaria Thomas , wearing a bright coral
cocktail dress; and his 16-year-old daughter, Ireland, in a
Grecian floor-length strapless outfit.  Amid two auctions -- silent and live -- and dinner with
roast pepper-crusted beef or lobster cake options, guests said
their support was motivated by a desire to improve water quality
and community planning, preserve natural habitats and open
spaces, or all of the above.  Root Cause  “Overdevelopment causes all the other problems,” said
fashion designer Nicole Miller, a Group patron for 16 years,
with her husband,  Kim Taipale , a founding partner of the
technology merchant-banking firm Parkview TMB.  Between courses, auctioneer George McNeely of Christie’s
offered a  Jackson Hole ,  Wyoming , “eco-adventure,” a week in a
St. Martin villa and two days on a 156-foot yacht sailing from
Newport,  Rhode Island .  “When they put a parking lot next to your home, don’t
blame me,” he shouted to one tepid bidder.  Paul McDowell, chief executive officer of  CapLease Inc., (LSE)  a
real estate investment trust, and his wife, Susan, a potter,
paid $6,000 for “farm-to-table wine-tasting dinner for eight,”
valued at $5,000.  They sat with neighbors from Shelter Island, Marco Birch, a
portfolio manager at Moore Capital Management,  and his wife,
Katherine Leahy Birch, both of whom are on the Group’s board.  Ferry Captain  Marco Birch called Shelter Island, accessible via ferry,
“New England-y.”  “When you’re at a dinner party, you’re as likely to sit
next to a ferry captain as someone who works on  Wall Street ,”
he said. “It’s a very grass-roots community.”  Birch said that DeLuca “focuses on saving us from
ourselves.  “He’s trying to prevent people from poisoning their own
land,” he said.  As for water, DeLuca said in an interview that while water
in the Hamptons is safe to drink, it contains excessive nitrogen
that “over-fertilizes” the area’s bays.  “Fish, shellfish and the  marine ecosystem  have much lower
tolerance for nitrogen,” he said. “Boating and fishing require
clean water.”  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Hephzibah
Anderson  on books.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Philip Boroff in  New York  at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net  