-- Apple to Feature Yelp Check-Ins Within IPhone Maps App
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-06-25T20:39:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/apple-to-feature-yelp-check-ins-within-iphone-maps-app.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s coming iPhone map
application will include  Yelp Inc. (YELP) ’s “check-in” feature to let
users broadcast their whereabouts to friends, according to
materials Apple distributed to software developers.  Apple Maps, which will replace  Google Inc. (GOOG)  as the default
location service in software set to debut later this year, will
allow users to communicate through Yelp without exiting the map
and opening a new app, the materials show.  Yelp, a website that lets users review businesses ranging
from plumbers to pet shops, introduced a check-in  service  for
mobile phones in 2010 in an effort to help local merchants build
loyalty with regular customers. Integration with Apple Maps may
help Yelp challenge Foursquare Labs Inc. and  Facebook Inc. (FB) , two
leading providers of check-in services.  “Apple is important for Yelp,” said  Aaron Kessler , an
analyst at Raymond James & Associates in San Francisco, in an
interview. “About 40 percent of traffic to Yelp is from their
mobile app. That number may be higher if you include browser-
based mobile.”  The Apple developer kit, which was given to programmers
earlier this month and examined by Bloomberg, includes screen
shots of Yelp check-ins within Apple Maps.  Trudy Muller , a
spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-based Apple, declined to
comment, as did  Vince Sollitto , a spokesman for San Francisco-
based Yelp.  Smartphone GPS  Mobile check-ins use the GPS capability in smartphones to
let users share what local businesses or events they’re
visiting. The feature can show how many other people have
checked in at a location, whether those individuals are friends,
and can publish users’ whereabouts through social-networking
services such as those operated by Facebook and Twitter Inc.  Yelp is ramping up efforts to attract local advertising,
which made up 70 percent of  revenue  in 2011. Check-ins are used
by 18 percent of adult smartphone owners, the Pew Research
Center  found  earlier this year.  Apple’s iPhone has featured  Google Maps  since 2007, when
the earliest version of the devices went on sale. The next
software update, called iOS 6, will be the first one to include
maps developed by Apple.  Yelp rose 1.4 percent to $21.95 at the close in New York,
while the Russell 2000 Technology Index declined 2.3 percent and
the Nasdaq Composite Index slipped 2 percent. Yelp’s shares have
increased 46 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  