-- Apple-Motorola Mobility Patent Suit Ended by U.S. Judge
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-25T16:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/apple-motorola-mobility-patent-suit-ended-by-u-s-judge.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Motorola Mobility,
the mobile phone-making unit of  Google Inc. (GOOG) , lost bids for court
orders barring each other from infringing their patents.  U.S. Circuit Judge Richard A. Posner in Chicago denied the
requests for relief in a 38-page court order issued on June 22,
ending a lawsuit started in 2010. A copy of the ruling could not
immediately be obtained from the court and was provided to
Bloomberg News by a Motorola Mobility spokeswoman.  “Neither party is entitled to an injunction,” Posner
wrote. “Neither has shown that damages would not be an adequate
remedy.”  Earlier this month, the judge rejected each company’s
money-damages theories and canceled a  jury trial  set for June
11. “That was a simple failure of proof,” not that damages are
incalculable, Posner said.  That trial would have been the first between Apple -- whose
iPhones are the world’s most popular line of mobile phone and
Google, whose Android operating system is the world’s most-used
mobile phone platform -- since Google completed its
$12.5 billion acquisition of Motorola Mobility last month.  Posner on June 20 heard arguments from Apple lawyers
seeking an order enjoining Motorola products from infringing
four of its patents, while Motorola sought an order barring
Apple’s infringement of one of its cellular technology patents.  The companies also have active litigation before the
International Trade Commission in  Washington  and in other U.S.
federal courts and in Germany.  Ruling Confirmed  Kristin Huguet, a spokeswoman for Cupertino, California-
based Apple, confirmed Posner’s ruling in a telephone interview
yesterday. She declined to comment on the court’s decision.  “We are pleased that Judge Posner formally dismissed the
case against Motorola Mobility,”  Jennifer Erickson , a
spokeswoman for the Google unit, said yesterday in an e-mailed
statement. “As it relates to Apple’s violation of our patents,
we will continue our efforts to defend our own innovation.”  Google is based in Mountain View,  California .  The case is Apple Inc. v. Motorola Mobility Inc., 11cv8540,
U.S. District Court for the Northern District of  Illinois 
(Chicago).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 