-- Apple, Disney, USOC, Home Depot: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-06-25T11:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/apple-disney-usoc-home-depot-intellectual-property.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) , maker of the iPad and
iPhone, patented a technology intended to protect  Internet users 
from data surveillance.  Patent 8,205,265, issued June 19, covers a technique
involving a cloned identity with interests that diverge from
that of the user. Actions performed by the clone will appear to
“network eavesdroppers” to have been the user’s, according to
the patent.  The clone’s actions are “are designed to pollute
electronic profiling or dataveillance,” Apple said in the
patent. The cloned identity system can include confidential
information that, while appearing to be legitimate, isn’t
connected to the user.  Examples of fake confidential information the clone would
use include phone numbers, credit card numbers and e-mail
accounts.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , applied for the
patent in October with assistance from Schwegman, Lundberg &
Woessner PA of  Minneapolis .  Patents  Apple’s Bid to Bar Samsung Galaxy Tab U.S. Sales Set for Hearing  Apple’s request for a court order blocking U.S. sales of
 Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s Galaxy Tab 10.1 tablet computer is
scheduled for a court hearing this week.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose, California,
said she also hopes to rule on Apple’s request to block sales of
Samsung’s Galaxy Nexus smartphone before the June 29 hearing.  The world’s two biggest makers of high-end phones have
accused each other of copying designs and technology for mobile
devices and are fighting patent battles in four continents to
retain their dominance in the $219 billion global smartphone
market. The June 29 hearing will address Apple’s third request
to block sales of Samsung’s tablet computer.  On June 4, Koh rejected Apple’s second request to ban the
tablet sales while the  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal
Circuit in  Washington  was considering her first such denial in
December. Koh said then she didn’t have jurisdiction to issue a
preliminary injunction because the appeals court hadn’t issued a
mandate.  On June 19, the appeals court reaffirmed its May
determination that Apple’s patent on a design of the tablet is
likely to withstand challenges to its validity. That decision
allowed the Cupertino, California-based company to renew its
request to block sales of Samsung’s tablet in the U.S.  Harold McElhinny, a lawyer for Apple, told Koh June 21 that
the appeals court mandate was issued.  Koh’s comments about the June 29 hearing and her pending
ruling on the Nexus smartphone came at the conclusion of a
hearing in which both companies sought pretrial rulings to
streamline their cases.  The judge said she was unlikely to rule in favor of either
side on their requests. She told the companies to narrow their
claims in the litigation.  Samsung on June 21 began rolling out its Galaxy S III
flagship smartphone in the U.S. through T-Mobile USA Inc. The
touch-screen device will be available from the three other
largest U.S. carriers --  Verizon Wireless ,  AT&T Inc. (T)  and  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S)  -- in the coming weeks, the Suwon, South Korean-
based company said in a statement last week.  Apple, anticipating sales of the new phone, told Koh at a
previous hearing it was considering filing a request for a
temporary restraining order blocking the Galaxy S III before its
release.  Apple dropped its request for a restraining order when Koh
said it might delay a July 30 trial date.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-1846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Braves in Settlement Talks With Disney over ‘Brave’ Trademark  Atlanta National League Baseball Club Inc., owner of the
Atlanta Braves baseball team, is in settlement talks with  Walt
Disney Co. (DIS)  over a disputed trademark registration, according to
a filing with the U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office .  Disney’s film “ Brave ,” about a red-headed female archer
in a fantasy kingdom in  Scotland , was released in the U.S. this
month. In anticipation of merchandise opportunities connected to
the film, Disney filed 14 applications to register “Brave” as
a trademark for a wide range of goods.  The baseball team objected to Disney’s attempt to register
the mark for use with a variety of food items, including ice
cream, frozen yogurt, snack foods, meat, poultry and processed
fruits and vegetables. The team sells food products at its
ballpark and said consumers might be confused about the source
of “Brave” branded food products Disney might sell.  In a June 12 filing, counsel for the team asked that its
opposition proceedings at the patent office be suspended until
Aug. 11 because the parties are engaged in settlement talks.
Disney’s in-house counsel has given the team’s in-house lawyer
comments regarding a few remaining issues related to a draft
agreement between the team and the Burbank, California-based
company, according to the filing.  According to patent office records, the team is represented
by Mary L. Kelvin, Richard S. Mandel, Elise Cassell and Seth
Shaifer of  New York ’s Cowan Liebowitz & Latman PC. Disney is
represented by David M. Kelly, Monica Riva Talley, Julia Anne
Matheson, Linda K. McLeod, Lynn M. Jordan, Anne C. Bonny and
Mary Beth Walker of Washington-based Finnegan, Henderson,
Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP.  The case is In the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office Before
the Trademark Trial and Appeal Board, 91204352.  USOC Apologizes to Knitters for Cease-and-Desist Letter  The U.S. Olympic Committee has sent an apology letter to
the 2 million members of a social network devoted to knitting.  In a June 21 statement, USOC spokesman Patrick Sandusky
said that the committee regretted the use of “insensitive
terms” in a cease-and-desist letter objecting to  Ravelry.com ’s
“Ravelympics” knitting competition.  The letter, which was posted on Ravelry.com’s website June
20, demanded that the name of “Ravelympics” be changed, and
said the use of the name is “disrespectful to our country’s
finest athletes and fails to recognize or appreciate their hard
work.”  Additionally, the letter demanded the removal of Olympic
symbols in patterns and projects, and the word “Olympics” from
the name of other patterns.  The letter generated protests from knitters who posted
statements on the USOC’s  Facebook page .  In the statement, Sandusky thanked “all of you who have
posted, tweeted, e-mailed and called regarding the letter sent
to the organizers of the Ravelympics.”  He said the letter was a standard-form cease-and-desist
letter, and the committee “never intended to make this a
personal attack on the knitting community or to suggest that
knitters are not supportive of Team USA.”  To show the USOC’s support of the Ravelry community,
Sandusky said the committee would “welcome any handmade items
that you would like to create to travel with, and motivate our
team at the 2012 games.”  One knitter responded to that request on the committee’s
Facebook page by saying, “You want our stuff for free? We make
hats, scarves and socks for soldiers in Afghanistan, caps for
premature babies and cancer patients, blankets for people who’ve
lost everything to a flood, fire or tornado. You sir, get
nothing.”  The social network still may comply with the USOC’s demand.
A June 20 posting on the Ravelry.com website says, “it’s
looking like we may have to rename the Ravelympics. They’ve made
the suggestion of ‘Ravelry Games.’”  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Black Keys Rock Duo Sues Pizza Hut, Home Depot Over Songs  The Black Keys sued  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Yum Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s
 Pizza Hut , alleging the companies used the rock duo’s songs in
commercials without authorization.  Patrick Carney and Daniel Auerbach, known as the Black
Keys, sued Home Depot for the unauthorized use of “Lonely
Boy,” and sued Pizza Hut and its advertising company,
Interpublic Group of Cos., over “Gold on the Ceiling,” in
separate filings June 21 in federal court in  Los Angeles .  The group said Pizza Hut and its ad agency created a
commercial for a product called Cheesy Bites Pizza that
“prominently features significant portions” of “Gold on the
Ceiling.” Home Depot ran a commercial for its Ryobi brand of
power tools that uses parts of “Lonely Boy,” the band said.  The use of the songs was “a brazen and improper effort to
capitalize on plaintiffs’ hard-earned success,” lawyers for the
Black Keys said in the complaints.  “We haven’t seen the complaint but we take  intellectual
property  very seriously,” Stephen Holmes, a spokesman for
Atlanta-based Home Depot, said in a telephone interview.  Chris Fuller, a spokesman for Louisville, Kentucky-based
Yum Brands, referred a request for comment to Pizza Hut’s ad
firm, the Martin Agency, a unit of Interpublic. Dean Jarrett of
Richmond, Virginia-based Martin had no immediate comment. Tom
Cunningham, a spokesman for New York-based Interpublic, didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment.  The band said in the lawsuits that letters were sent to
Pizza Hut and Home Depot in May requesting that they stop
showing the ads with the music.  “Lonely Boy” and “Gold on the Ceiling” are the first
two singles from the Black Keys’ seventh album, “El Camino,”
released in December on Nonesuch Records, a division of Warner
Music Group. According to the complaint, “El Camino” has sold
more than 800,000 copies so far. Auerbach plays guitars and
Carney drums.  Also suing the companies is co-writer Brian Burton, known
professionally as Danger Mouse. The plaintiffs asked for jury
trials of the copyright-infringement suits.  The case are Auerbach v. Pizza Hut, 12-05385, and Auerbach
v. Home Depot, 2:12-cv-05386, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  Liberty Media Says File-Hosting Company Infringes Adult Films  Liberty Media Holdings LLC, a Las Vegas-based maker of
adult films, sued a file-hosting company for copyright
infringement.  According to the complaint filed June 20 in federal court
in Las Vegas, FF Magnat Ltd.’s Oron hosting service is accused
of aiding infringement of Liberty’s Corbin Fisher films.  The storage company “is cognizant of its role as the
vehicle in which infringers act in concert with one another to
copy and distribute huge amounts of infringing material,”
according to the complaint. Oron is the 935th-most visited
Internet site, Liberty claims, citing Alexas.com, a website that
monitors web traffic.  Liberty asked the court to bar Oron and 500 unidentified
defendants from copying and posting its content without
authorization. It also seeks a court order for the impoundment
of all of its content in the defendants’ possession, and awards
of money damages and litigation costs.  Oron didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Liberty is represented by James M. DeVoy and Marc J.
Randazza of the Randazza Legal Group of Las Vegas and Ronald D. Green Jr. of New York’s Greenberg Traurig LLP.  The case is Liberty Media Holdings LLC v. FF Magnat Ltd.,
12-cv-01057, U.S. District Court, District of Nevada (Las
Vegas).  For more copyright news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  