-- Court’s Immigration Ruling Emphasizes Republican Split
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-06-26T18:18:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/arizona-immigration-ruling-reinforces-congressional-battle-lines.html
By asserting the federal
government’s authority over immigration policy, the U.S.  Supreme
Court  yesterday increased pressure on congressional Republicans
to act at a time when they are divided over the issue.  The court’s decision scaling back  Arizona ’s first-of-its-
kind crackdown on illegal immigrants emphasized the extent to
which Republicans are caught between their party’s base, which
favors stricter enforcement measures like the Arizona law, and
those who support a path to permanent residency for some people
who are in the U.S. illegally.  “You can definitely get a sense of the divide within the
 Republican Party ,” said Jacob Vigdor, a professor of public
policy and economics at  Duke University . “Republicans don’t
want to be out in public being too aggressively anti-
immigrant.”  Republicans also don’t want to be seen as backing off
efforts to combat illegal immigration, Vigdor said.  The top Republicans in the House and Senate, Speaker  John Boehner  of Ohio and Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky ,
remained silent on the ruling yesterday, even as other
congressional Republicans renewed calls for tighter enforcement.  Complicating matters for Republicans, the court issued its
ruling 10 days after President  Barack Obama ’s directive to halt
deportations of some young people brought to the U.S. illegally,
a policy change that has strong public support.  ‘Dominant Mood’  “Since the presidential order, there have been a lot of
signs that the dominant mood in the public is favoring an
attempt to really solve the immigration problem rather than
demagogue it,” said Tamar Jacoby, president of ImmigrationWorks
USA, a Washington-based nonprofit group that backs an overhaul
of immigration laws.  Republican lawmakers have focused their criticism of
Obama’s directive on his decision to bypass Congress, rather
than on the substance of the announcement.  A Bloomberg News poll released June 19 showed that 64
percent of likely voters surveyed after Obama’s announcement
said they agreed with the policy, while 30 percent disagreed.
Independent voters backed the decision by a better than a 2-to-1
ratio.  Racial Profiling  Democrats hailed the Supreme Court’s ruling on immigration
as a repudiation of Arizona’s law, which they said promotes
racial profiling, and criticized Republicans for congressional
inaction.  The court invalidated criminal restrictions that would have
barred those in the U.S. illegally from seeking work or being in
Arizona without proper documentation. The ruling said a
requirement that local police check the immigration status of
people they suspect are in the U.S. illegally could take effect,
while leaving open the possibility of later challenges.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
the court’s ruling “shows that the Obama administration was
right to challenge this law, which was not just ill-advised but
also unconstitutional.”  The Pew Hispanic Center estimates that Latinos make up 27
percent of the population in Nevada, a presidential battleground
state.  Senator Bob Menendez, a New Jersey Democrat, said today in
an interview that he didn’t think the chances were good that
Republicans would be able to unite behind an approach to
immigration.  ‘I Hope So’  “I hope so, but I don’t see my colleagues being pressured
on immigration that much,” said Menendez, who has been an
advocate of a broad immigration overhaul that includes a path to
citizenship.  Democrats have been trying to ensure that Latinos, who
supported Obama over Republican  John McCain  by a greater-than 2-
1 ratio four year ago, turn out again in this year’s election to
vote for Obama and other Democratic candidates.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of New York, the Senate’s third-
ranking Democrat, called the ruling “as strong a repudiation of
the Arizona law as one could expect given that the law has not
been implemented yet.”  ‘Stern Warning’  “The court is sending a stern warning to Arizona that the
provision allowing local  law enforcement  to check people’s
immigration documents cannot be implemented in a discriminatory
or draconian way, or it will be thrown out like the rest of the
law,” said Schumer, chairman of the Senate Judiciary panel’s
Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and Border Security.  Schumer said April 24 that if the court didn’t invalidate
the law, he would push for a measure to make clear that Congress
doesn’t intend for states to enact immigration enforcement
strategies. Schumer spokesman  Brian Fallon  said yesterday in an
e-mail that Schumer and his staff are “reviewing the need for
legislation since all but one element of the law was struck
down.”  For a decade, since then-President  George W. Bush  couldn’t
gain support for what he called a balanced approach, lawmakers
have been unable to advance immigration legislation.  As with other policy issues, including health care and
 climate change , the Republican Party has moved far to the right
since Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah  in 2001 proposed legislation
granting legal status for younger illegal immigrants brought to
the U.S. as children.  Dream Act  The proposal, known as the Dream Act, fell out of favor in
the past two years with Republican conservatives, many backed by
the  Tea Party . Hatch, who avoided voting on the measure in late
2010 when Republicans and a few Democrats killed it in the
Senate, faces a Tea-Party-backed challenger, former state
senator Dan Liljenquist, in today’s Republican primary.  McCain and Senator  Jon Kyl , both Arizona Republicans, said
the ruling “appears to validate a key component” of the law.  “The Arizona law was born out of the state’s frustration
with the burdens that illegal immigration and continued drug
smuggling impose on its schools, hospitals, criminal justice
system and fragile desert environment, and an administration
that chooses to set enforcement policies based on a political
agenda, not the laws as written by Congress,” McCain and Kyl
said in a joint statement.  McCain was the lead Republican negotiator on the last
significant bipartisan attempt at an immigration overhaul in
2006 and 2007.  Hispanic Vote  “It’s very clear that we are losing a very large segment
of the Hispanic vote,” McCain told reporters yesterday.
“That’s a fact.”  In a statement, House Judiciary Committee Chairman  Lamar Smith  said the ruling “essentially puts an end to immigration
enforcement” because states “can no longer step in and fill
the void” created by federal inaction.  The decision “is especially bad news for border states”
by limiting the ability “to protect their citizens and
communities from illegal immigrants,” said Smith, a Texas
Republican.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  