-- Arizona Immigration Law Partially Struck by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-25T20:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/arizona-illegal-immigration-law-gets-mixed-top-court-decision.html
The U.S. Supreme Court scaled back
 Arizona ’s first-of-its-kind crackdown on illegal immigrants,
striking down three provisions in a decision that asserts the
federal government’s exclusive role to set immigration policy.  The ruling leaves intact, for now, the law’s centerpiece
requirement that Arizona police check the immigration status of
people they suspect are in the country illegally. Even so, the
5-3 decision took some of the force from that provision by
invalidating parts of the law that would have given the state’s
police more power to arrest people for  immigration  violations.  The ruling gives President  Barack Obama ’s administration
most of what it sought when it sued to block the Arizona law.
Supporters of the law said the federal government isn’t doing
enough to crack down on an  estimated  11.5 million people in the
country illegally.  “Arizona may have understandable frustrations with the
problems caused by illegal immigration while that process
continues, but the state may not pursue policies that undermine
federal law,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote for the majority.  The decision may undercut parts of similar laws in other
states and will have repercussions for the November presidential
election as Obama and Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  vie for
Hispanic votes.  No ‘Patchwork’  Obama, in a statement, said the decision highlights the
need for congressional action on a comprehensive update of
immigration laws, not a “patchwork” of state rules.  “I will work with anyone in Congress who’s willing to make
progress on comprehensive immigration reform that addresses our
economic needs and security needs, and upholds our tradition as
a nation of laws and a nation of immigrants,” Obama said. In
the meantime, he said, “We must ensure that Arizona law
enforcement officials do not enforce this law in a manner that
undermines the civil rights of Americans.”  Romney said in a statement that the ruling “underscores
the need for a president who will lead on this critical issue
and work in a bipartisan fashion to pursue a national
immigration strategy.”  The case bore similarities to the fight over Obama’s
health-care law, with the administration clashing with
Republican-controlled states. As with health care, the argument
pitted U.S. Solicitor General Donald Verrilli against former
Solicitor General  Paul Clement , arguing for the states. The
court is set to rule June 28 on the health-care law.  Police Checks  The Arizona provision that will go into effect, known
informally as the “show me your papers” requirement, instructs
police officers to check immigration status when they arrest or
stop someone and have “reasonable suspicion” that the person
is in the U.S. illegally.  Kennedy suggested that provision would be invalid if it
caused police to hold people longer than they otherwise would.
“Detaining individuals solely to verify their immigration
status would raise constitutional concerns,” he wrote.  He said it was too soon to determine whether that would be
the consequence. “There is a basic uncertainty about what the
law means and how it will be enforced,” Kennedy wrote.  He said the ruling “does not foreclose other pre-emption
and constitutional challenges to the law as interpreted and
applied after it goes into effect.”  Invalidated Provisions  Chief Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Stephen Breyer  and  Sonia Sotomayor  joined Kennedy in
the majority.  The justices invalidated criminal restrictions that would
have barred those in the U.S. illegally from seeking work or
being in Arizona without proper documentation. A third
invalidated provision said police could arrest people they
suspected were eligible to be deported.  Justices Antonin Scalia,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito 
each issued a partial dissent. Scalia and Thomas said they would
have upheld the entire law, while Alito voted to back most of
it.  “If securing its territory in this fashion is not within
the power of Arizona, we should cease referring to it as a
sovereign state,” Scalia wrote. He took the unusual step of
reading a summary of his dissent from the bench.  Justice Elena Kagan didn’t take part in the case because
she played a role in the litigation as Obama’s top  Supreme Court 
lawyer before her 2010 appointment to the court.  Work Permits  Obama said earlier this month his administration would halt
deportation of some illegal immigrants who were brought to the
U.S. as children and make them eligible for work permits.  Scalia took a shot at the president’s description of the
new program as “the right thing to do.”  “Perhaps it is, though Arizona may not think so,” Scalia
wrote. “But to say, as the court does, that Arizona contradicts
federal law by enforcing applications of the Immigration Act
that the president declines to enforce boggles the mind.”  The Obama administration sued to challenge S.B. 1070, as
the Arizona law is known, saying it encroached on the exclusive
federal right to set immigration policy.  Today’s ruling is “a clear rebuke to Arizona and its
attempt to create its own immigration law,” said Omar Jadwat,
an immigration attorney with the  American Civil Liberties Union ,
in a telephone interview. The ruling means that “states really
have very little room to operate in this area.”  Governor Brewer  Arizona Governor Jan Brewer called the ruling a victory for
her state while saying the law was likely to face additional
legal challenges.  “Arizona is prepared to move forward to enforce this law
that we have fought so hard to defend,” Brewer said at a news
conference today. She said “racial profiling will not be
tolerated” in implementing the measure.  The Supreme Court didn’t consider claims that the law will
lead to racial profiling by police officers. That issue is part
of a separate lawsuit being waged by civil rights advocates
against the Arizona measure.  Marielena Hincapie, executive director of the Los Angeles-
based National Immigration Law Center, said at a  Washington  news
conference that her group and others will ask a court to block
enforcement of the provision on checking people’s immigration
status. If that fails, she said, her group will challenge
individual instances of racial discrimination that may occur.  Republicans seized on the part of the law that the  high
court  left intact, and used the ruling to renew calls for
tighter enforcement. Senators  John McCain  and  Jon Kyl , Arizona
Republicans, said the ruling “appears to validate a key
component” of the law.  State’s Frustration  “The Arizona law was born out of the state’s frustration
with the burdens that illegal immigration and continued drug
smuggling impose on its schools, hospitals, criminal justice
system and fragile desert environment,” McCain and Kyl said in
a statement.  California Representative Zoe Lofgren, the top Democrat on
the House immigration subcommittee, said today’s decision
“basically closes out most of the state-law provisions” and
“is a message to any other state that this is not a route that
they can take.”  Arizona’s law was the first of its kind when enacted in
2010. Since then, Alabama, South Carolina, Georgia,  Utah  and
Indiana have all passed their own measures aimed at illegal
immigration. All are facing court fights.  ‘Yellow Light’  The ruling “sends a yellow light to Arizona and other
states that they have to be careful in enacting immigration law
provisions,” Stephen Yale-Loehr, who teaches immigration law at
Cornell Law School, said in a telephone interview.  The case turned on the U.S. Immigration and Nationality
Act, which says states may cooperate in enforcing federal law.
The administration contended Arizona went beyond cooperation and
was trying to implement its own immigration policy of “maximum
enforcement.”  The administration said the state measure would undermine
the federal government’s effort to give highest priority to
illegal immigrants who threaten public safety.  Arizona argued it has the right to act because the U.S.
government hasn’t done enough and said it doesn’t have to defer
to federal priorities. The state says its 370-mile border with
 Mexico  is the crossing point for half the nation’s illegal
immigrants.  Arizona had 360,000 unauthorized immigrants in 2011,
according to the U.S. Department of  Homeland Security . During
the last four decades, 12 million migrants came to the U.S. from
Mexico, most illegally, according to a report by the Pew
Hispanic Center, a nonpartisan research group in Washington. Net
Mexican migration to the U.S. has now stopped and may have
reversed, the report said.  The parts of Arizona’s law that were challenged have never
taken effect. A divided federal appeals court blocked them.  The case is Arizona v. United States, 11-182.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  