-- Man Winning Most Married Moms Poised for White House
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-06-25T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/married-moms-are-older-richer-than-year-of-the-woman-.html
In an ad backing  Mitt Romney  for
president, a gold band on the main character’s left hand flashes
before viewers as she laments a poor economic future for her two
children should President  Barack Obama  win re-election.  That hint to the character’s marital status reveals one of
the subsets of voters that both Obama and Romney, his
presumptive Republican opponent, are targeting in the 2012
campaign: married women with children.  They are a slice of the electorate that swings between the
parties. They also are less likely than the broader female
voting population to skew Democratic. Obama won married mothers
by 4 percentage points in 2008 compared to his 13-percentage-
point margin among the gender as a whole, exit polls show.  “These women are the Republicans’ best shot,” especially
in the swing states, said Ange-Marie Hancock, associate
professor of political science and gender studies at the
University of  Southern California  in  Los Angeles .  In 1992, the so-called “Year of the Woman” when female
representation in Congress spiked, Democrat  Bill Clinton  won the
White House with a plurality of women voters overall while
losing the married-mother vote by one percentage point. Obama
won’t win this year if that margin exceeds five percentage
points, Hancock said.  Today’s Married Moms  To create a profile of that targeted female voter and learn
how she’s changed in the past 20 years, Bloomberg compiled data
from the Census Bureau, Bureau of Labor Statistics, the Pew
Research Center and exit polls with analysis from Selzer & Co.,
a  Des Moines , Iowa-based polling firm.  The lifestyle differences that have occurred carry with
them an adjusted view by these women of their place in society,
said Christine Percheski, who assisted Bloomberg with the
analysis and who teaches sociology at  Northwestern University  in
Evanston,  Illinois .  Compared to their 1992 counterparts, today’s married
mothers are wealthier and more educated. On average, they have
annual household incomes of more than $70,000, a 14 percent
increase from 1992, and they are more educated, with 40 percent
earning at least a bachelor’s degree, compared to 22 percent two
decades ago. They work more hours and contribute more household
 income . They are older when they walk down the aisle and when
they first give birth. At both the workplace and in politics,
more people in power look like them.  Changed View  “It changes the way they view their role as mothers. It
changes the way they relate to their husbands and other
people,” Percheski said. “It changes what they need from
government and it changes what kinds of policies are important
to them politically.”  Married mothers today are more likely to have lived on
their own and worked more years prior to having children, and
thus favor greater independence and identify less with
traditional gender roles, she said.  Deborah Snyder embodies the married mother both
presidential camps are wooing.  Snyder, 37, is a mother of three boys under the age of six.
She earned a bachelor’s degree in  Boston  before returning to her
hometown in a suburb south of Denver to marry her high school
sweetheart. She now works as a civil engineer at Entitlement and
Engineering Solutions Inc., a female-owned firm in Denver, the
capital of  Colorado , a state political analysts count among a
handful that could determine the election’s outcome.  Split Voting History  Snyder was a registered Republican until switching parties
and voting for Obama four years ago. She split her ballot
between a Republican congressman and a Democratic senator in the
2010 midterm elections. She’s unsure how she’ll vote in
November.  When Obama unveiled his  jobs  bill last year, Snyder’s
frustration reached a tipping point. “It seemed to be a lot of
throwing money after money,” she said, adding that she views
herself as worse off economically than her parents were at her
age and worries that the deficit threatens economic growth.
Still, she’s unsure Obama is to blame.  Even more disturbing was the “extreme shift to the right”
she watched during the Republican primary season, she said. She
disagrees with Romney’s opposition to abortion rights and same-
sex marriage, she said, and believes he’ll moderate his
positions if elected.  Work, Family, Politics  Like thousands of women in her position, Snyder’s efforts
to balance work, childcare and a personal life leaves little
bandwidth for politics.  She canceled her newspaper subscription last year after
failing to find time to read it. She’s at the office during the
day when her home phone rings most with political robocalls. She
only turns on her television to watch DVDs, rendering useless
the blitz of campaign ads on local stations. On the eve of
Colorado’s presidential primary in February, Romney visited her
high school alma mater a block from her house -- and she didn’t
know it was happening.  For months, Snyder has submerged herself in “intentional
isolation,” a backlash from what she sees as the increasingly
polarized nature of politics in which fights are commonplace and
lawmakers attempt to campaign and negotiate by way of ultimatum.  “The point of politics is to serve the people,” she said.
“Politics have become self-serving -- politicians are more
worried about their campaign, their party and their win than
what’s best for the American people,” she said. “They’re more
worried about finding a strategy to get the greatest share of
voters than having their beliefs organically get those voters.”  A ‘Select’ Group  While much is made of the so-called marriage gap -- the
tendency for marriage to increase the likelihood voters will
favor Republicans -- the demographics of married mothers may
signify more of a class gap, said Northwestern’s Percheski.
Married mothers have become a more privileged, “select” group,
she said. They are half as likely to live in poverty or lack 
 health insurance  than women in general, she added.  “Because married mothers come from families with higher
incomes, they need less of the social protections than some
other women, and their financial interests and class interests
lie more with the Republicans in terms of things like  tax
policy ,” said Percheski.  They are also a more reliable voter then unmarried women,
who studies have found tend to have a Democratic tilt.  Almost  half  of married mothers, 47 percent, went to the
polls in 2010, compared with less than a third of their
unmarried counterparts, 30 percent, said Page Gardner, president
of the Women’s Voices Women Vote Action Fund.  Economic Focus  As in 1992, voter surveys find economic issues identified
as the top concerns -- and married mothers, who often control
family finances -- are no exception.  According to a June 15-18 Bloomberg National Poll, 48
percent of married moms say jobs and unemployment are their top
issues, followed by health care at 15 percent. Fifty-two percent
of them agree that the economy will get better if Obama’s
policies are given more time to work and 45 percent say a
“complete change of course” is needed.  Married moms in the poll favor Obama over Romney, 50
percent to 46 percent, though 68 percent say the president
hasn’t delivered the change he promised four years ago.  For Snyder, whose two-income household was buffered from
the recession more than those of her single friends, neither
Obama nor Romney has convinced her that he deserves her support.  “I just want to hear statements that sound like they came
from their gut and not a teleprompter, so I can believe what
they’re saying is really what they believe and not just a
strategy to win my vote,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in  New York  at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  