-- Arsenal to Sign Giroud on Five-Year Contract This Week: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-06-25T07:02:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/arsenal-to-sign-giroud-on-five-year-contract-this-week-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  Gunners Get Giroud  Arsenal will complete the signing of France striker Olivier
Giroud for 12 million pounds ($18.7 million) from Montpellier
this week,  the Sun reported .  Giroud, who scored 21 league goals in 36 games last season,
will sign a five-year contract with the Gunners, the Sun added.  “I am so happy to be signing for Arsenal,” the newspaper
cited Giroud, 25, as saying. “It is something that represents
so much for me.”  Duo Return  Denilson and  Carlos Vela  are being forced to return to
Arsenal after permanent transfers to their loan clubs fell
through, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Sao Paulo  isn’t interested in signing Brazilian midfielder
Denilson because Arsenal is asking 5 million pounds for him,
while Real Sociedad wants to pay half of the 6 million-pound
valuation Arsenal put on Mexican forward Vela, the paper added.  Free Agents  West Bromwich Albion and Everton are monitoring the
situation of Rangers duo Steven Naismith and Steven Whittaker,
who rejected the transfer of their contracts to the club’s new
company following liquidation, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Scottish national team players now consider themselves
to be free agents, the newspaper added.  Bellamy Bid  Craig Bellamy  may return to  Cardiff City  as the Welsh club
considers a bid for the Liverpool striker, the  Mail reported .  Cardiff’s Malaysian owners, who recently announced a 100
million-pound investment plan, are trying to work out finances
to re-sign the 32-year-old, the Mail added.  Roman Raid  Barcelona made a move for Manchester City teenage
midfielder Joan Angel Roman, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Angel Roman, 19, hasn’t lived up to his promise since
joining City from Espanyol three years ago and Barca wants to
take him back to  Spain  in a deal likely to be structured so it
pays a fee if he gets into the first team, the Mail added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  