-- Asia Cuts July Imports West Africa Crude to 10-Month Low
-- B y   S h e r r y   S u
-- 2012-06-26T08:46:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/asia-cuts-july-imports-west-africa-crude-to-10-month-low.html
Asian refiners will reduce imports
of West African crude in July to the lowest level in 10 months
as  China  and India cut purchases, a survey of seven traders and
an analysis of loading plans obtained by Bloomberg News showed.  Refiners in Asia bought 46 cargoes from  Angola ,  Nigeria ,
Republic of Congo,  Equatorial Guinea ,  Democratic Republic  of
Congo and Gabon, according to the survey. That totals 42.05
million barrels, or 1.36 million barrels a day, the least since
September and 25 percent less than June.  Buyers in Asia can opt between Middle Eastern crude or
Atlantic Basin grades, and their choice normally depend on the
value of the lighter, sweet blends from the  North Sea  and West
 Africa  versus heavier, sour grades from  Saudi Arabia  and Iran.
Lighter crude yields more lucrative products such as diesel and
gasoline. Sweet grades contain less sulfur than sour.  A slowdown in economic growth among buyers such as China
and India has sapped oil demand, while cheaper alternative
grades also prompted refiners to cut back on their intake of
West African crude.  Chinese refiners are cutting their runs, while in  India ,
“gross domestic product forecast have been revised down with
Indian rupees plunging to the lowest level in more than nine
months, which has been mitigating the impact of lower crude
prices on fuel prices,” Ehsan Ul- Haq, a senior market analyst
with KBC Energy Economics in Walton-on-Thames,  England , said in
an e-mailed response to questions on June 22.  Cheaper Mediterranean Grades  “Caspian and North African barrels have been cheaper than
West African crudes in recent weeks, prompting Asian refiners to
buy Algerian, Azeri and Libyan crude instead of Angolan and
Nigerian grades,” he said, adding that Asian refiners have
stockpiled “too much” oil ahead of the implementation of
sanctions against  Iran  by the European Union on July 1.  Nigerian benchmark Qua Iboe fell to a premium of $1.35 a
barrel to Dated Brent today, the lowest since May 1, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The U.S., the biggest buyer of Nigerian crude, has cut its
 purchases  since September. Its imports from Africa’s largest
producer fell to 337,000 barrels a day in March, the least since
December 1996, compared with 840,000 a year earlier, according
to data from the  Department of Energy .  Chinese refiners cut their imports to 27 cargoes, the least
in 10 months, compared with 29 for June, the survey showed.
China International United Petroleum & Chemical Corp., known as
Unipec, bought 17 shipments, down from 21 for this month.  Chinese Demand  China Petroleum & Chemical Corp. (600028) , the nation’s biggest
refiner, reduced crude processing for this month by 8 percent
from its original plan, according to C1 Energy. The cut in
processing rate came after China’s stockpiles of crude for
commercial use rose to the highest level in eight months in May.  Supplies of crude, excluding emergency reserves, climbed
0.2 percent at the end of May from a month earlier, China Oil,
Gas & Petrochemicals newsletter compiled by Xinhua News agency
showed June 20. That takes crude inventories to 29.88 million
metric tons, or 219 million barrels, the most since September,
according to calculations by Bloomberg News based on the data.  India cut imports of West African crude to a seven-month
low of 12 cargoes, six less than this month, the survey showed.
The country’s imports of Nigerian crude will drop to five
shipments from 12 in June.  Indian Oil  Indian Oil Corp., the nation’s largest refiner, bought six
shipments, the least since September, while  Reliance Industries
Ltd. (RIL) , which owns the world’s largest refining complex, reduced
its imports to three cargoes from five, the survey showed.  Bharat Petroleum Corp., India’s second-largest state
refiner, bought two cargoes, down from five in June, which was
the most in at least 11 months.  Taiwan’s state-owned CPC Corp. purchased six shipments of
Angolan crude, one more than this month, the survey showed.  Indonesia ’s state-owned PT Pertamina didn’t buy any West
African crude for July, the first time in at least one year,
according to the survey.  The  Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps , which measures the
European benchmark against the Persian Gulf grade, averaged
$3.57 in May, compared with $3.77 in April and $3.84 in March,
according to data from PVM Oil Associates Ltd. The spread fell
to a 22-month low of $1.38 a barrel on June 21. Traders make
more profit from shipping crudes from  Europe  or West Africa to
 Asia  when the spread between the two contracts shrinks.  Refiners opted for cheaper crudes from the Mediterranean,
which are also priced against Dated Brent, instead of West
African grades for loading in July.  Nigeria will export 2.18 million barrels a day of crude
next month while Angola will ship 1.58 million barrels,
Bloomberg calculations based on loading programs showed.  The following tables show details of planned Asian imports.
Most cargoes are for 950,000 to 1 million barrels. All the
volumes are in barrels a day.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sherry Su in London at 
 lsu23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  