-- Stocks Drop as Dollar, Treasuries Rise Before EU Summit
-- B y   S t e p h e n   K i r k l a n d   a n d   M i c h a e l   P .   R e g a n
-- 2012-06-25T20:15:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/asian-stocks-euro-decline-before-italy-spain-auction.html
Stocks slid, while the dollar and
Treasuries rose, amid concern a meeting of European leaders this
week will fail to halt a debt crisis that threatens to drag U.S.
corporate earnings to the first decline since 2009. Oil slumped
while agricultural commodities rallied.  The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  fell for a third day,
losing 1.4 percent at 4 p.m. in  New York , and the Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index retreated 1.6 percent. The dollar strengthened
against 15 of 16 major peers, with the euro dipping below $1.25.
Ten-year Treasury note yields fell seven basis points to 1.61
percent. The Spanish 10-year yield increased 26 basis points.
Oil tumbled below $80 a barrel for a third day while corn and
soybeans surged on concern dry weather will hurt crops.  Failure by leaders at the summit to come up with measures
to shore up the weakest countries may be “fatal” for the euro,
billionaire investor  George Soros  said yesterday, while German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected joint euro-area bonds or bills
in a speech today. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras, who is
recovering from surgery and won’t attend the summit, accepted
the resignation of Finance Minister Vassilios Rapanos today.  “Expectations in Europe are really low and usually by this
stage, when we’re going into one of these summits, there’s
normally a bit more hope around,”  Jim O’Neill , chairman of
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said in a radio interview on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with  Tom Keene  and Ken Prewitt.
“They like to take things to the brink in order to engineer the
outcomes they want,” he said. “It’s a pretty risky game to
pursue, but it’s not the first time it’s happened.”  Market Leaders  The  S&P 500  has retreated 7.4 percent from a four-year high
in April as Europe’s debt crisis spread and economic data
pointed to a slowing recovery. Stocks resumed losses today after
briefly trimming declines when Commerce Department data showed
demand for new U.S. homes rose more than forecast in May, with
purchases climbing 7.6 percent to a 369,000 annual rate.  Indexes of technology, financial and energy shares lost at
least 1.9 percent to lead declines in all 10 main industry
groups in the S&P 500 today. Bank of America Corp.,  Intel Corp .
and Hewlett-Packard Co. lost more than 3.3 percent for the
biggest declines in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , which sank
138.12 points to 12,502.66.  Alcoa, the largest U.S. aluminum producer, is scheduled to
report second-quarter results on July 9 to start the  earnings
season  for Dow companies. Profits at S&P 500 companies fell 1.1
percent in the April-June period, according to analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. That would mark the first year-over-year
decrease since 2009.  Earnings Pessimism  Earnings pessimism is reaching levels last seen during the
global financial crisis of 2008 and 2009, based on company
guidance. Fifty-nine corporations issued profit projections that
 trailed  analyst estimates during the 20 days through June 22, or
3.1 times the number of those that exceeded them. The ratio has
been greater than 3 for eight straight days, the longest stretch
in three years. It was at least that high the majority of the
time between October 2008 and April 2009, climbing to 11.5 in
December 2008, the data show.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  dropped 1.5 percent. Unicredit
SpA and BNP Paribas SA led a selloff in banks, both falling at
least 5.5 percent. Nokia Oyj lost 11 percent amid speculation
Samsung Electronics Co.’s earnings may miss some analyst
estimates. Shire Plc slumped 11 percent after regulators
approved a generic version of its second-biggest selling drug.  Spain’s IBEX-35 Index sank 3.7 percent and Italy’s FTSE-MIB
Index tumbled 4 percent, the most in two months, while  Greece ’s
ASE Index sank 6.8 percent to lead losses among 24 developed
markets tracked by Bloomberg.  Dollar Climbs  The euro slipped 0.5 percent to $1.2504 after dipping as
low as $1.2471. The shared currency lost 1.5 percent against the
yen and weakened against 10 of 16 major peers. The  Dollar Index (DXY) ,
which tracks the U.S. currency against those of six trading
partners, jumped 0.2 percent.  Policy makers should create a European Fiscal Authority to
purchase sovereign debt in return for Italy and Spain
implementing achievable budget cuts, Soros said in  London .
Funding would come from European Treasuries backed by each euro
member, he said.  Germany ’s Merkel, speaking to a conference in
Berlin as Spain announced it would formally seek aid for its
banks, dismissed “euro bonds, euro bills and European  deposit
insurance  with joint liability and much more” as “economically
wrong and counterproductive.”  Spanish Bank  European banks slumped 3 percent as a group to lead
declines in all 19 industries tracked by the Stoxx 600. Spanish
banks may have their credit ratings cut by Moody’s Investors
Service for a second time in less than six weeks after the
nation’s sovereign rating was lowered, said three people with
knowledge of the situation.  Cyprus said today it will seek a financial lifeline from
the euro area’s firewall funds, becoming the fifth of the euro’s
17 member states to seek a bailout.  A visit by the international creditors to determine how far
Greece has slipped behind on budget targets that underpin access
to the international funds was suspended. Greek President
Karolos Papoulias will represent the country at this week’s
summit as Samaras convalesces after surgery for a detached
retina. Finance-Minister designate Rapanos resigned after being
hospitalized on June 22 for nausea and dizziness.  ‘Similar Symptoms’  “I think I speak for all of us when I say, ‘We feel your
pain,’”  Ed Yardeni , president and chief investment strategist
at Yardeni Research Inc. in New York, wrote in a note to
clients. “We are all starting to show similar symptoms as we
suffer through the never-ending insanity of the European
financial crisis and the latest round of emergency summits.”  The Italian two-year yield climbed 54 basis points to 4.33
percent, with the similar-maturity Spanish yield advancing 42
basis points. The Belgian five-year note yield dropped four
basis points to 2.00 percent as the government sold 2.8 billion
euros ($3.5 billion) of 2017, 2022 and 2032 bonds. Germany sold
2.045 billion euros of 12-month bills, while France auctions as
much as 8.4 billion euros of short-dated securities.  The 30-year U.S. Treasury bond yield declined eight basis
points to 2.68 percent.  The S&P GSCI Index of commodities added 0.7 percent as 18
of 24 raw materials tracked by the gauge advanced. Corn and
soybeans rallied more than 3.5 percent. Much of Iowa and
Illinois, the biggest U.S. corn and soybean-growing states, will
be mostly dry until at least June 29, according to the  National
Weather Service .  Oil Retreats  Oil dropped 0.7 percent to $79.21 a barrel in New York,
erasing earlier gains of as much as 1.2 percent, as tropical
Storm Debby shifted away from offshore energy installations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  slipped 1.3 percent,
falling for a third day. The Shanghai Composite Index slid 1.6
percent to the lowest close since Jan. 16. The ISE National 100
Index fell 1.6 percent in Istanbul.  Turkey  is weighing a
response after  Syria  shot down one of its warplanes in
international airspace, Foreign Minister Ahmed Davutoglu said.  Egypt’s EGX30 Index jumped 7.6 percent, the most since
February 2008, after Mohamed Mursi, the Muslim Brotherhood
candidate, was declared the country’s first freely elected
president.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Kirkland in London at 
 skirkland@bloomberg.net ;
Michael P. Regan in New York at 
 mregan12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  