-- Aussie Dollar Gains as Investors Pare Back Rate-Cut Bets
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-06-26T06:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/aussie-dollar-near-1-1-2-week-low-as-spain-fuels-debt-woe.html
Australia ’s dollar strengthened
versus most of its 16 major counterparts as traders pared bets
on interest-rate cuts amid speculation the nation’s economy will
be strong enough to weather  Europe ’s debt crisis.  The so-called Aussie rebounded after touching its weakest
level in 1 1/2 weeks yesterday before  Reserve Bank  of Australia
policy makers meet next week, when they are forecast to keep the
key rate unchanged. Demand for the Australian and New Zealand
currencies was damped as Asian stocks fell and before Spanish
Economy Minister Luis de Guindos outlines in parliament plans to
use European funds to bail out the nation’s banks.  “The market’s pricing for the extent of RBA rate cuts
looks overdone,” said Khoon Goh, a senior foreign-exchange
strategist in  Singapore  at  Australia & New Zealand Banking Group
Ltd. (ANZ)  “I don’t think the Aussie will get sold off too heavily,
unless we get a real deterioration in the euro zone debt crisis.
Eventually we see the Aussie heading up towards the $1.04 level,
probably by early next year.”  The Australian dollar rose 0.2 percent to $1.0034 as of
4:02 p.m. in Sydney after reaching 99.69 U.S. cents yesterday,
the lowest since June 14. The Aussie added 0.2 percent to 79.89
yen after sliding 1.5 percent yesterday.  New Zealand ’s currency
advanced 0.3 percent to 78.99 cents. It gained 0.3 percent to
62.89 yen, following a 1.3 percent decline yesterday.  The Aussie has lost 1.7 percent versus the  U.S. dollar 
since Dec. 31. The kiwi has advanced 1.6 percent.  Yields Drop  Australia’s 10-year government bond yield fell six basis
points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 2.95 percent. New Zealand’s
two-year swap rate, a fixed payment made to receive floating
rates, was little changed at 2.68 percent.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  of shares slid 0.3 percent. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.6 percent yesterday,
while the Stoxx Europe 600 Index fell 1.5 percent.  RBA officials will keep the overnight cash-rate target at
3.5 percent when they meet on July 3, according to the  median
estimate  in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a better than 40 percent chance policy makers will keep the
benchmark rate unchanged next week. That’s up from a more than
29 percent probability seen on June 19. Traders expect the RBA
to cut the rate to a record 2.75 percent by October, the data
show.  ‘Bright Lights’  “In a world where there are concerns about slowing growth
momentum, both Australia and New Zealand have been bright lights
in terms of posting some fairly decent numbers of late,” ANZ’s
Goh said.  New Zealand’s  economy  grew 2.4 percent in the first quarter
from a year earlier, while Australia’s increased by 4.3 percent
on the same basis, the fastest expansions for each nation since
2007, separate reports this month showed. Each nation’s gross
domestic product rose by more than the strongest estimates
provided by economists in Bloomberg News surveys.  The Australian dollar has declined 1.1 percent in the past
three months, Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes show. Its
New Zealand counterpart has fallen 0.2 percent, according to the
gauge that tracks 10 developed-nation currencies.  Spain ’s de Guindos will speak in parliament to explain the
nation’s request for as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion)
to recapitalize its banks. Moody’s cut the long-term debt and
deposit ratings of 28 Spanish lenders including  Banco Santander
SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) , according to a
statement yesterday.  Europe faces “a multi-pronged problem,” said Emma Lawson,
a Sydney-based currency strategist at  National Australia Bank
Ltd. (NAB)  “There are many and varied issues and this will keep
markets uncertain in the short term. The Aussie and kiwi will
probably range-trade for the day, with a risk to the downside.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  