-- Lawmaker Moon to Run in South Korea Presidential Race
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   S u n g w o o   P a r k
-- 2012-06-25T01:11:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/lawmaker-moon-to-run-in-south-korea-presidential-race-correct-.html
(Corrects age of lawmaker Moon in sixth paragraph of story
published on June 18.)  South Korean opposition lawmaker
Moon Jae In said he will run in December’s presidential election,
with polls showing him trailing the ruling party’s probable
nominee and a possible independent candidate.  Moon, a former presidential chief of staff, will seek to
win the Democratic United Party’s nomination in a bid to prevent
President  Lee Myung Bak ’s New Frontier Party from keeping power.
The election will be held Dec. 19 and Lee’s single five-year
term ends in February. The DUP hasn’t scheduled its primary.  “I will become president of ‘our country,” Moon said in a
statement yesterday. “I will become president of a country
where owners are ordinary people, not a privileged handful,
where people go hand-in-hand without divisions, and where people
proudly say ‘we’.” Moon also said he wants a nation based on
fairness and justice.  His popularity was unchanged from last week, according
Seoul-based Realmeter’s survey released today. Former NFP leader
Park Geun Hye, the daughter of military dictator Park Chung Hee,
saw her popularity rise 1.8 percent from last week to 42.8
percent and independent software entrepreneur Ahn Cheol Soo saw
his drop 2.1 percent to 21.1 percent. The survey of 3,750 people
on June 11-15 had a margin of error of plus or minus 1.6
percentage points.  Neither Park nor Ahn have announced their candidacies.  Moon, 59, spoke yesterday at the Seodaemun Independence
Park in west Seoul, a memorial for the prison where he served
time in 1975 for participating in street protests against the
dictatorial rule of Park’s father.  Human Rights  Moon began his career as a  human rights  lawyer in 1982,
opening a practice with the late Roh Moo Hyun, then served as
chief of staff during Roh’s 2003-2008 presidency. He is
considered one of the architects of the “Sunshine Policy” of
engagement with  North Korea .  In his statement, Moon said he will try to resolve North
Korea’s nuclear issue “peacefully,” adding that North Korea
must not be allowed to have nuclear weapons.  “I will surely have the North give up its nuclear
ambitions through dialogue and negotiations,” Moon said. “I’ll
try to get the six-party talks resumed, and regain  South Korea ’s
leading role in that forum.”  Moon won his first parliamentary term in April,
representing South Korea’s second-largest city of Busan, and
played a role in successfully negotiating an opposition
coalition with the minority United Progressive Party.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net ;
Sungwoo Park in Seoul at 
 spark47@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  