-- Mazda Ends Hummm as Rotary Gives Way to Hydrogen Cells
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i ,   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a   a n d   M a   J i e
-- 2012-06-26T06:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/mazda-ends-hummm-as-rotary-gives-way-to-hydrogen-cells-cars.html
Many people of a certain age
remember  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261) ’s catchy ads from the 1970s. “Piston
engines go boing-boing,” they said. “Mazda goes hummmm.” The
voiceover sang: “There’s nothing like it on the road today; the
rotary engine is here to stay.”  Wrong.  The last Mazda using the  rotary , which won fans with its
ability to generate more power than traditional power plants of
the same size, will roll off the assembly line this month at the
company’s Hiroshima factory and headquarters.  The 45-year rise and fall of the engine tells a broader
story of the past, present and -- Mazda is betting -- future of
automaking. Shoji Meguro’s very mixed feelings give a window
into the reasons.  “Fuel efficiency is horrible,” said Meguro, a 41-year-old
music producer in  Tokyo , who drives a Mazda RX-8 sports coupe.
“But I don’t know any car that beats this. I’m going to miss
it.”  The only unprofitable Japanese automaker said it believes
demand for more environmentally friendly cars will continue to
grow and help it post its first profit in five years.  “Production of the RX-8 will end, but the rotary engine
will live on as an important part of Mazda’s spirit,” Takashi Yamanouchi, Mazda’s president, said in an e-mailed statement to
Bloomberg.  German Design  Originally developed by engineer Felix Wankel in  Germany 
after World War II -- it was also called the Wankel engine --the
technology was licensed by Mazda in 1961 from  Audi NSU Auto
Union AG , which is now a unit of  Volkswagen AG. (VOW)   Consisting of a three-cornered rotor in an oval chamber,
the engine is typically lighter than piston power plants, with
fewer moving parts. That enables additional power and
acceleration without the bulk of traditional engines.  The rotary engine in the current model RX-8 reaches 8,200
revolutions per minute before hitting the maximum level at which
it’s designed to operate without causing damage. That compares
with 7,000 rpm for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s 86 sports car, sold as
the FR-S under the carmaker’s Scion brand in the U.S.  It’s that sort of performance than won over Kenichi
Tsunoda, who joined a Mazda dealership in 1992 as a mechanic
after graduating from school and bought an RX-7 two-door sports
coupe with the rotary shortly after.  Tsunoda’s dream was to “touch and play with rotary engines
every day,” he said at the Mazda showroom he now manages in
Chiba, adjacent to Tokyo.  Oil Injection  After the debut of the Cosmo Sport in 1967, Mazda made
almost 2 million vehicles with variations on the Wankel engine.
The company’s rotary-powered 787B became the first Japanese-made
car to win the  Le Mans  endurance race in 1991.  “The engine’s roar and its beautiful appearance were loved
by those who saw the Mazda 787B win the Le Mans race,” said
Yamanouchi, who joined the company in 1967, the same year the
rotary entered production.  While the rotary was lighter than many piston power plants,
they weren’t more efficient because they typically used oil
injection to lubricate seals and a greater proportion of fuel
went unburned. That led both to bad gas mileage and higher
emissions than many other cars.  Annual production peaked at 239,871 in 1973, the year of
the Arab oil embargo.  Tighter emission standards and higher  gas prices  combined
to hasten its demise. While Mazda added the engine to both
sedans and sports cars in the 1970s and introduced a turbo-
charged version of the Cosmo RE in 1982, the rotary lost favor,
and by 2003, only the RX-8 still had it.  Failed Emissions  With the rotary-powered RX-8 guzzling twice as much
gasoline as Toyota’s Corolla, the biggest-selling gasoline car
in the world, and about 40 percent more than Toyota’s 86 sports
car, Mazda faced a struggle to find buyers if it persisted with
the technology.  In addition, the RX-8 rotary failed diagnostics tests for
the Euro 5 emission requirements that came into effect in 2010,
said Michiko Terashima, a spokeswoman for Mazda. The rules
govern what cars can be sold in  Europe .  By 2010, the company was making just 2,896 RX-8s.  “Fuel emission standards can mean the life or death to
some products,” said Masato Sase, a Tokyo-based consultant at
Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting Co. “Still, those standards
sometimes lead companies to improve, and can serve as drivers of
new technology.”  SkyActiv Future  Mazda is turning to what it calls SkyActiv, which is a
suite of technologies based on diesel and gasoline engines and
includes new automatic transmissions and lighter car frames to
cut down on fuel use.  The technology may be enough to keep Mazda competitive for
the next decade,  Kurt Sanger , a Tokyo-based auto analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG, wrote in a report last year.  Mazda fell 1.9 percent to 102 yen at the close of trading
in Tokyo. The carmaker’s  shares  have declined 25 percent this
year after dropping the most among  Japan ’s five largest
automakers last year.  Mazda’s reliance on export sales exacerbates its
vulnerability to gains in the value of the yen. The company
produces almost 70 percent of its cars in Japan, of which 80
percent are shipped overseas, the highest ratio in the industry.  The company, which leases about eight hydrogen-powered cars
to organizations including the Hiroshima and Yamaguchi
prefectural governments in western Japan, has said it will
continue research on rotary engines to test more environmentally
friendly technology.  Separately, Mazda is also planning to introduce an electric
car next year using hydrogen to fuel the rotary engine and
generate power for the car’s battery.  SkyActiv Expansion  The new CX-5, the first sports utility vehicle fully
incorporating SkyActiv, will exceed the initial sales plan of
160,000 units while the Mazda6, or Atenza, will become the
second model to fully integrate the technology and enter the
market this year, according to Yamanouchi.  After introducing the CX-5 SUV in Japan this February,
Mazda said it received 8,000  orders  for the car in one month, as
President Yamanouchi expects annual global sales of the model to
come close to 200,000.  Mazda plans to have eight models that fully adopt Skyactiv
and increase the proportion of its sales using the technology to
80 percent by March 2016.  SkyActiv is “growing into a symbol for Mazda, and we
expect it to play a major role for Mazda to achieve its midterm
plan,” Toru Hatano, an analyst at industry researcher IHS
Automotive said.  Le Mans Return  Mazda said on June 16 that after two decades away from  Le
Mans , the carmaker will compete at in the 2013  race  with a
diesel-powered car using SkyActiv.  News of the rotary’s demise prompted Mazda to add 1,000
cars to its  final  production run as devotees sought to secure an
RX-8.  “One of the buyers who rushed in was a gentleman in his
60s who had just retired, and finally made the decision to
purchase the car with his dream engine,” said Mazda dealer
Tsunoda. “The rotary lovers are truly car fans.”  For those who already own rotary powered cars such as
Kiyotake Naoi, the sound and feel of the engine on his 1989 RX-7
coupe will be hard to replicate, no matter what the fuel
efficiency is.  “It’s like the car is a part of you,” said Naoi, a 38-
year-old video game maker in Tokyo. “I’ll probably keep this
car until it breaks down so badly that I won’t be able to ride
it anymore.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net ;
Ma Jie in Tokyo at 
 jma124@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  