-- Bank of America Hires Goldman Sachs’s Diego De Giorgi for Europe
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-06-25T16:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/bank-of-america-hires-goldman-sachs-s-diego-de-giorgi-for-europe.html
Bank of America Corp . hired Diego De Giorgi, chief operating officer of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s
 investment banking  division, as co-head of its European
securities operations.  De Giorgi will become joint head of global corporate and
investment banking for  Europe  with Bob Elfring, Christian Meissner, Bank of America’s head of global corporate and
investment banking, wrote in a memo to employees today. Elfring
joined the firm last year as head of the securities unit in
Belgium, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Northern Europe.  The two “will partner closely together to drive the growth
of our corporate and investment banking franchise,” Meissner
said in the note.  Meissner, who is moving to the U.S. as Bank of America’s
sole head of global investment banking, is seeking to bolster
his team in Europe following the departures of  Andrea Orcel , who
had been chairman of global banking and markets, and Jonathan Moulds, the firm’s former president of Europe. He hired Alex Wilmot-Sitwell from UBS AG in April to be president of its
European division.  De Giorgi, who has previously overseen teams at Goldman
Sachs responsible for  equity capital markets  and clients in the
financial-services industry, declined to comment by e-mail
earlier today. De Giorgi and Elfring will report to Meissner and
Wilmot-Sitwell, according to the memo.  Bank of America is the 11th-ranked adviser on mergers
involving companies in Western Europe this year, down from 10th
place in the first half of last year, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The bank has also slipped in equity underwriting and ranks
fifth in Europe, the  Middle East  and Africa this year, down from
third, the data show.  Goldman Sachs ranks second in Western European merger
advice this year behind Deutsche Bank AG, the data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  