-- Bloomberg Reaches Deal With NYC Council on $68.5 Billion Budget
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-06-26T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/bloomberg-reaches-deal-with-nyc-council-on-68-5-billion-budget.html
An agreement between New York Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg  and the City Council on a $68.5 billion budget
will provide day-care and after-school programs for 107,000
children, and saves Fire Department units from closure.  The budget agreement for the most populous U.S. city
doesn’t raise taxes and came just five days before the June 30
deadline that marks the end of the 2012 fiscal year. In the
plan, Bloomberg, 70, and the council restored $150 million the
mayor cut from child-care and after-school programs and millions
more to operate 20 fire-engine and ladder companies.  “We just made it a priority,” Bloomberg said yesterday
when asked during a  City Hall  news briefing where he found the
money to restore the threatened programs. Council Speaker
Christine Quinn, 45, had called the cuts unacceptable, saying
they would remove more than 36,000 youngsters from programs.  Bloomberg, an independent, and Quinn, a Manhattan Democrat,
joined by members of their negotiating teams, gathered in City
Hall to announce their seventh straight on-time budget since
2006. That year, Quinn became leader of the 51-member council.
For Bloomberg, passage of the deal will mark the 11th
consecutive time he has met a state-imposed budget deadline.  “With this budget all of us in City Hall have made clear
that the children of  New York  City are our No. 1 priority,”
Quinn said. “We’re saying that child care can and must be the
beginning of a lifetime of learning.”  Library Funding  The budget deal also restored $90 million that had been cut
from libraries, bringing total funding up to about $300 million,
and permitting some to remain open six days a week, the mayor
said. Cultural institutions will get an additional $50 million,
to $150 million, which the mayor described as “slightly above”
current levels.  The agreement also saved 650 education workers from
dismissal, including 400 teacher-aides. Money to save the jobs
came from an agreement with District Council 37 of the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees to accept
less pay and work a half-hour less each day; the city Education
Department provided about $8 million in savings; and the City
Council used $3 million in discretionary funds, said Justin
Goodman, a council spokesman. He said $59 million was restored
to Fire Department funding.  Bloomberg is barred by the city’s term-limits law from
seeking re-election in 2013. Quinn is one of at least five
Democrats who have expressed interest in running for mayor in a
primary election next year. Registered Democrats outnumber
Republicans by more than 5-to-1 in the city.  Improving Revenue  The budget reflects improved revenue from economically
sensitive taxes on income, sales, real estate and business.  “While revenues from the financial sector have declined,
tax revenues have been bolstered by strong growth in the tech,
film and television, tourism and higher education sectors, areas
where the administration has focused its economic-development
initiatives,” Bloomberg said.  The mayor balanced the 2013 budget with about $1.5 billion
in cost savings from agency spending cuts in 2012 and 2013, and
$4 billion in nonrecurring sources of revenue, including $635
million he expects from the sale of 2,000 additional taxi
medallions, or licenses to operate cabs. The sale has been
delayed by legal challenges from medallion owners.  Other one-time sources of funds include $1.6 billion of
surpluses from prior years, and $1 billion from a Retiree Health
Benefits Trust set up several years earlier to pay for future
employees’ health-care needs.  Debt Ratings  New money and savings measures since the mayor first
proposed his budget in May include $240 million from reduced
debt-service payments by taking advantage of low  interest rates 
on municipal bonds in the current and next fiscal years. The
city’s general-obligation debt is graded AA by Fitch Ratings and
 Standard & Poor’s , and Aa2 by Moody’s Investors Service, the
third highest level for all three.  The  spending plan  estimates that in fiscal 2014, the city
will need to close a $2.5 billion deficit, or about 3 percent of
a projected $72.4 billion budget.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  