-- BMO Stops Selling Reverse Convertibles Tied to Single Stocks
-- B y   M a t t   R o b i n s o n
-- 2012-06-25T14:55:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/bmo-stops-selling-reverse-convertibles-tied-to-single-stocks.html
Bank of Montreal  has stopped selling
reverse convertibles tied to single stocks, its most popular
product in the U.S., as sales of the instruments fall to the
least in two years amid regulators’ warnings of their risks.  “We are shifting our emphasis to index based reverse
convertibles,” Alexis Brown, a spokeswoman for the Toronto-
based bank, said in an e-mail, while declining to explain why
the decision was made. “We are still in the reverse
convertibles marketplace.”  BMO has sold about $250 million of the single-stock
securities in the U.S. since its first offering in September of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Its issuance of
all types of reverse convertibles fell to $52.3 million in the
first five months of 2012, down 40 percent compared with the
year-earlier period.  U.S. sales of reverse convertibles, high-yielding bank
bonds that convert into stock if a company’s share price
plummets, declined to $204.6 million last month, their lowest
level since at least the beginning of 2010, continuing a
downward trend after a Financial Industry Regulatory Authority
warning in July. The industry-backed regulator released an
 investor alert  advising buyers to be wary of advertising
suggesting the products are “safe and suitable for investors
seeking high yields.”  Sales fell last month even as higher volatility allowed
issuers to offer higher-yielding notes. The VIX, as  the Chicago
Board Options Exchange Volatility Index  is known, averaged 21 in
May, the highest level this year. The gauge measures the cost of
options to protect against declines in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index. Higher volatility boosts the value of derivatives
embedded in reverse convertibles, allowing issuers to create
more attractive notes.  Largest Sale  BMO last sold reverse convertibles on June 13, with 18
offerings linked to companies from Apple Inc. to Cliffs Natural
Resources Inc., Bloomberg data show. Its largest U.S. reverse
convertible, issued Jan. 7, 2011, was $7.54 million of three-
month notes. The securities yielded an annualized 10.15 percent
as long as any of the eight underlying companies didn’t fall
below a pre-set barrier, according to a  prospectus  filed with
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  In December,  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  was fined $2 million by
Finra for failing to supervise its top salesman of reverse
convertibles from 2006 to 2008 as he recommended the products to
elderly investors. Fifteen of 21 investors were more than 80
years old, Finra said in a statement.  Structured notes are securities created by banks, which
package debt with derivatives to offer customized bets to
investors while earning fees and raising money. Derivatives are
contracts whose value is derived from stocks, bonds, currencies
and commodities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Matt Robinson  in  New York  at 
 mrobinson55@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 