-- Bovespa Slides on Europe Concern as Glitch Interrupts Trading
-- B y   D e n y s e   G o d o y   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-06-25T21:27:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/bovespa-slides-on-europe-concern-as-glitch-interrupts-trading.html
The  Bovespa index  fell for a fourth
day as concern that the debt crisis will deepen in  Europe  dimmed
the outlook for Brazilian exports. Trading was disrupted in the
afternoon by a technical glitch that left some investors without
access to pricing data.  Investors who weren’t using exchange operator BM&FBovespa
SA’s main electronic system, called Mega Bolsa, didn’t have
access to stock prices, Bernardo Pereira, a trader at Agora Ctvm
SA, said by phone from  Rio de Janeiro . “It’s been chaotic,” he
said. “All the clients that were using other platforms had to
be moved” to the main system, he said.  The Bovespa slid 2.9 percent to 53,805.38, according to the
exchange. The real weakened 0.2 percent to 2.0620 per  U.S.
dollar . Oil fell below $80 a barrel for a third day on the  New
York  Mercantile exchange.  Petroleo Brasileiro SA tumbled after the state-run  oil
company  said it will raise gasoline and diesel prices less than
some analysts had expected.  OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes SA 
fell the most in two weeks, following crude prices down.  European leaders are meeting this week to try to find a way
to contain the region’s debt crisis. Failure at the two-day
summit to come up with effective measures could spell the demise
of the European region’s shared currency, billionaire investor
 George Soros  said yesterday. Central banks are facing the limit
of their ability to boost economic growth, the  Bank for
International Settlements  said in its annual report yesterday.  “Big Brazilian companies, mainly commodities producers and
exporters, are suffering a lot because investors tend to be more
cautious in a situation like this,” Jason Vieira , an analyst
at Cruzeiro do Sul Corretora, said by phone from  Sao Paulo .
“The European leaders are not giving any kind of guidance about
what they could do.  Fuel Prices  Petrobras, as Petroleo Brasileiro is known, will increase
gasoline prices by 7.8 percent and diesel by 3.9 percent
beginning today, according to a regulatory filing June 22 after
the market closed. The changes aim to align prices with
international values on a medium- to long-term basis, the
company said in the statement.  Investors were betting on a 15 percent increase, Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes, analysts at Itau Unibanco SA, wrote
in a note to clients dated June 22.  Petrobras lost 9 percent to 17.80 reais. OGX declined 5.9
percent to 8.70 reais. Iron-ore producer  Vale SA (VALE)  fell 1.9
percent to 38.95 reais.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  