-- Brazil Boom Helps World Cup Hospitality Provider Bounce Back
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-25T21:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/brazil-boom-helps-world-cup-hospitality-provider-bounce-back.html
The 2010 World Cup in  South Africa 
was a bust for the company that owned rights to corporate
hospitality there. It will bounce back at the next edition
thanks to  Brazil ’s booming economy.  Match Hospitality AG  lost about $50 million because of weak
demand in South Africa. It says it’s already made $262 million
in sales for Brazil, compared with the $150 million it paid
soccer’s governing body  FIFA  for rights to an event that’s still
two years away. It paid $120 million for the right to sell
corporate seats in South Africa.  “Although international demand has exceeded our
expectations for this early stage, not surprisingly almost 80
percent of sales to date have been to Brazilian companies or
residents of Brazil,” Andreas Herren, a spokesman for Zurich-
based Match, said in an e-mailed response to questions.  Brazil’s economy grew at an average 3.8 percent annually
between 2001 and 2011, boosted by commodity exports ranging from
iron-ore to beef. Under the presidencies of Luiz Inacio Lula da
Silva and incumbent  Dilma Rousseff , more than 30 million people
have been pulled out of poverty since 2003, boosting domestic
consumption.  Economists have been lowering their forecast for economic
growth this year amid a slowdown in commodity exports to  China 
and a decline in industrial output. Analysts surveyed by the
central bank last week said they expect gross domestic product
to expand 2.18 percent this year.  Demand  The demand for the 32-team World Cup comes at a time when
some events like the current European Championship in Poland and
Ukraine have struggled to meet targets.  The 16-team European competition is sport’s biggest
tournament after the World Cup and the summer Olympics. The
semifinals start tomorrow, and its UEFA Club Prestige operation,
responsible for corporate hospitality, still had availability
for both semifinals and also the final in Kiev on July 1 six
days before the first of those matches. Defending champion  Spain 
plays Portugal tomorrow, Germany meeting  Italy  the day after.  David Taylor , head of the commercial operation at European
soccer’s governing body, said before the 1.3 billion-euro ($1.6
billion) tournament he expected corporate hospitality income to
be 30 percent lower than the 150 million euros at the
competition in  Austria  and  Switzerland  four years ago.  Rene Proske, managing director of Germany-based  Proske
Sports , is responsible for organizing sponsor  Coca-Cola Co.’s (KO) 
hospitality at Euro 2012. He said Brazil’s booming economy and
passion for soccer -- it’s the record five-time world champion -
- explain why revenue has been so good. Herren said he expects
even more sales as the tournament nears.  Some Availability  “Certain types of packages in a couple of the venues are
no longer available,” he said. “Other types of hospitality
packages are still available in significant quantities.
Construction plans for stadia have not been completed, and
qualifying competitions in the various continents are still in
their early stages or yet to start.”  Proske started a joint venture in Brazil with a local
travel management company to profit from interest in the  World
Cup . He said the distance to South Africa and reports about lack
of infrastructure and crime made some companies wary of hosting
clients there in 2010.  “It’s definitely sexier to say to a client ‘Come and join
us at the World Cup in Brazil,’” Proske said in a telephone
interview from Warsaw, where Coca-Cola’s hospitality base for
Euro 2012 is located. “With the football and the beaches I’m
sure it will be fantastic.”  The buildup to the World Cup in Brazil has not been all
smooth after  South America ’s biggest nation was awarded the
rights to sports’ most-watched event in 2007. Rising
construction costs, delays, labor disputes and a disagreement
with FIFA over legislation have slowed preparations.  Match Hospitality also has offices in Johannesburg and Rio
de Janeiro. It’s majority-owned by U.K.-based Byrom Holdings Plc
and counts Dentsu Inc., Infront Sports & Media AG, Bidvest Group
Ltd. and Winterhill Investments Ltd. as shareholders.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Tariq Panja  in Donetsk, Ukraine, via the London newsroom
   tpanja@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  