-- Spain Bonds Fall on EU Divide Over Crisis as Bunds Rise
-- B y   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a   a n d   N e a l   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-25T15:52:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/bunds-advance-as-greece-seeks-bailout-extension-before-eu-summit.html
Spanish and Italian bonds fell,
underperforming their euro-area peers, amid concern that
European leaders won’t be able to resolve differences on a way
to end the sovereign-debt crisis and boost growth.  Spanish two-year yields jumped by the most in a week as
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  said joint borrowing by euro-
area governments would be counterproductive. German bunds rose
as investors sought safer assets after billionaire investor
 George Soros  said a failure by European leaders meeting this
week to tackle the financial crisis could spell the demise of
the euro. Belgian notes gained for a fourth day as the country
sold securities due between 2017 and 2032.  “It’s the specter of failure surrounding the euro-zone
meetings,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-income strategist at
Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “It’s difficult to see how
anything can displace the focus on the euro zone or how anything
can be resolved this week.”  Spain ’s two-year yields climbed 39 basis points, or 0.39
percentage point, to 4.83 percent at 4:42 p.m.  London  time.
That’s the biggest increase since June 18. The 3.4 percent
security due April 2014 dropped 0.66, or 6.60 euros per 1,000-
euro ($1,249) face amount, to 97.5352. Similar-maturity Italian
yields jumped 53 basis points to 4.33 percent. They rose as much
as 55 basis points, the biggest daily gain since May 29.  Volatility on Italian government debt was the highest in
developed markets today followed by Spain and Sweden, according
to measures of 10-year bonds, the spread between two-and 10-year
securities, and credit-default swaps.  Spanish Losses  Spanish Economy Minister Luis de Guindos made a formal
request today for a lifeline of as much as 100 billion euros in
a letter to  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the group of euro-
region finance ministers. European Union leaders are due to meet
in Brussels on June 28-29 and it’s still to be decided whether
the temporary European Financial Stability Facility or the
European Stability Mechanism, the successor fund due to come
into effect next month, will be used for Spain’s aid.  Spanish securities lost 4 percent this year, according to
indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies, as the nation moved closer to
seeking external financial support. Investors have been buying
German bonds as a haven through the debt crisis, leaving them
with a 2.2 percent gain for the year to date.  Germany ’s Merkel resisted attempts by the leaders of
France, Italy and Spain to accelerate action to ease the crisis
last week, while the Bundesbank said it opposed  European Central
Bank  plans to help ailing lenders.  Brussels Summit  The Chancellor today rejected joint euro-area bonds or
bills, saying that introducing shared debt in the 17-nation
currency region now would be “wrong and counterproductive.”
The goal is a political union in  Europe  with stronger oversight,
she said.  Greece  is also seeking to change some measures in that
country’s second bailout.  “We probably need a crisis before the real decisions are
taken,” Shahid Ikram, head of sovereigns at Aviva Investors
Ltd. in London, said in an interview with  Maryam Nemazee  on
Bloomberg Television’s “The Pulse.” “I’d like to see direct
recapitalization of banks while Spain and Italy need to get
access to cheaper funding.”  German  10-year yields  fell 12 basis points today to 1.47
percent. The yield has dropped from 1.64 percent on June 20,
which was the highest rate since May 3.  Cyprus Downgrade  Bunds stayed higher as  Fitch Ratings  downgraded Cyprus to
below investment grade, cutting it to BB+ from BBB-, as the
country negotiates international aid for its troubled banks with
both the European Union and  Russia .  “Cypriot banks will require substantial injections of
capital in order to secure confidence in their financial
viability,” Fitch said today in a statement. The company
estimated the cost at as much as 6 billion euros.  Belgium’s sale of 1.275 billion euros of bonds maturing in
September 2022 attracted bids equivalent to 2.64 times the
amount on offer, up from a so-called bid-to-cover ratio of 1.86
in May. Securities due June 2017 attracted a bid-to-cover ratio
of 1.79 times, down from 2.60 last month.  Belgium ’s five-year yield fell three basis points to 2.01
percent, after touching 1.993 percent, the least since June 11.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net ;
Neal Armstrong in London at 
 narmstrong8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  