-- Canadian Dollar Drops on Speculation Leaders Won’t Solve Crisis
-- B y   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-06-25T21:15:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/canadian-dollar-drops-on-speculation-leaders-won-t-solve-crisis.html
Canada ’s dollar dropped versus its
U.S. counterpart on concern European Union leaders meeting this
week won’t succeed in stanching the region’s debt crisis,
dimming the outlook for countries that export commodities.  The currency extended its 0.3 percent decline from last
week, touching the lowest level in almost two weeks, as stocks
and commodities including crude oil declined. The yen was the
top performer among major currencies on demand for the most
liquid of assets, and the greenback rose against most peers.  “The  U.S. dollar  is starting to pick up some momentum
against the Canadian dollar from here,” said  Shaun Osborne ,
chief currency strategist at  Toronto-Dominion Bank (TD) ’s TD
Securities unit, in an interview in Bloomberg’s Toronto office.
“We have commodity prices that look quite soft.”  Canada’s currency, nicknamed the loonie for the dollar
coin’s waterbird image, depreciated 0.5 percent to C$1.0292 per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto. It touched C$1.0318, the
weakest since June 12. One Canadian dollar buys 97.16 cents.  The loonie may weaken beyond C$1.0450, said Osborne.  Government bonds  rose today, pulling the  yield  on Canada’s
five-year security eight basis points, or 0.08 percentage point,
lower to 1.23 percent. The price of the 1.5 percent securities
maturing in March 2017 climbed 35 cents to C$101.24. Canadian
five-year securities yielded  53 basis points  more than their
U.S. counterparts, compared with as much as 85 on April 27.  The MSCI All-Country World Index slid 1.4 percent, while
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index declined 1.6 percent. Crude
futures dropped 0.9 percent to $79.10 a barrel in  New York .  ‘High Risk’  The Canadian dollar dropped 0.7 percent in the past month,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, while the
greenback fell 0.7 percent and the euro weakened 0.9 percent.
The biggest loser was the pound, down 1.4 percent.  New Zealand ’s
dollar was up 4.1 percent to lead gainers.  “The Canadian dollar wouldn’t be on top of my list of
currencies to hold,”  Derek Halpenny , European head of global
currency-markets research at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd.
in  London , said in a telephone interview. “There’s a high risk
of disorderly markets through the summer and into the autumn.
We’re bullish U.S. dollar and yen.”  Canada has a current account deficit of 2.7 percent of
gross domestic product, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
That’s the second-highest among Group of Seven and euro-area
countries, the data show. Crude is Canada’s largest export.  Commodity Linkages  “On the negative side, you have linkages with commodities,
and on top of that you have a current account deficit which is
sizable enough,” said Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi’s Halpenny.
“That could undermine the Canadian dollar. The evidence is
pointing to slower U.S. growth.”  Citigroup Inc.’s Canadian terms of trade  index  fell to the
lowest since October 2009 on June 21, compared with the firm’s
New Zealand terms of trade index, which rose that day to the
highest this year. The index measures the price of exports
relative to imports. New Zealand is a net importer of oil and
benefits when oil prices drop, according to  Greg Anderson  at
Citigroup in New York.  “Shifts in the relative terms of trade have been generally
correlated with movements in the New Zealand dollar-Canadian
dollar exchange rate over the past couple of years,” Anderson,
the North American head of Group-of-10 currency strategy at
Citigroup, wrote in a note to clients today.  New Zealand’s dollar, known as the kiwi, traded at 81.02
cents versus the Canadian dollar today, up 4.1 percent this
month.  “The magnitude of that bounce somewhat lags the terms of
trade move,” Anderson wrote. The divergence “might potentially
steer us towards the  New Zealand dollar  as we evaluate
commodity-currency trade ideas over the next few weeks,” he
wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Fournier in Halifax at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  