-- Cato, Koch Brothers Settle Suits Over Control of Think Tank
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-25T19:28:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/cato-koch-brothers-settle-suits-over-control-of-think-tank-1-.html
The  Cato Institute  settled two
lawsuits brought by Charles and David Koch vying for influence
over the Washington-based free-markets advocacy group.  The two sides disclosed the accord, which includes the
replacement of retiring Cato Chief Executive Officer Edward H. Crane with former  BB&T Corp. (BBT)  chairman John A. Allison, in a
joint statement issued today.  Cato backed litigation challenging President  Barack Obama ’s
2010 health-care reform legislation. The brothers, principals of
the closely held refining and chemical company Koch Industries
Inc., have been active in Republican Party fundraising. The U.S.
Supreme Court didn’t rule on the health-care law today, pushing
the decision to June 28.  “For a majority of Cato’s directors, the agreement
confirms Cato’s independence and ensures that Cato is not viewed
as controlled by the Kochs,” both sides said in the statement.  “For Charles Koch and  David Koch , the agreement helps
ensure that Cato will be a principled organization that is
effective in advancing a free society,” Cato and the Kochs
said.  Charles Koch, a Cato co-founder, and his brother sued the
organization, Crane and the widow of Chairman Emeritus William Niskanen in state court in  Kansas  in March, seeking enforcement
of an agreement that they said required Niskanen’s estate to
offer his stock back to the institute and then to its surviving
shareholders -- the brothers and Crane.  Voting Power  In an April lawsuit, the Kochs accused Chairman Robert Levy, Crane and seven other directors of improperly adding four
directors to Cato’s board to dilute the brothers’ voting power.
Before Niskanen’s death in October 2011, the institute had four
shareholders -- Niskanen, Crane and the Koch brothers.  Crane, in a March statement, said the brothers were trying
by “hostile takeover” to transform the organization he founded
with  Charles Koch  in 1977 from one that is non-partisan to one
that is overtly political.  Under the terms of the agreement, Cato will cease to be a
stockholder corporation and instead will be governed by the
members, who will double as institute directors and who will
elect their own successors, the parties said.  The initial Cato board will include 12 long-term directors
including David Koch, three other Koch designees and Allison,
who holds the option to nominate one or two additional
directors.  Crane, Charles Koch and Niskanen’s widow, Kathryn Washburn,
won’t be on the board. Crane will step down from his post after
a transition period of up to six months, according to the
statement, after which he will work as a consultant on
fundraising and other matters.  Koch Industries  based in Wichita, Kansas.  The March case is Koch v. Washburn, 12-cv-01749, and the
April case is Koch v. Cato Institute, 12-cv-2830, Johnson
County, Kansas, District Court (Olathe).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  