-- Cattle-Hide Economy Slumping While Goldman Sees Rally
-- B y   J o e   R i c h t e r
-- 2012-06-26T22:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/cattle-hide-economy-slumping-as-goldman-sees-rally-commodities.html
At a time when  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and Credit Suisse Group AG are predicting the  bear market 
in commodities will end, a gauge of prices for raw materials
from cow hides to steel is extending the longest slump since it
presaged the global recession in 2008.  Credit Suisse said June 21 that an economic recovery will
spur a 9.3 percent gain in commodities in 12 months and Goldman
forecast a 29 percent return on June 11. A measure of industrial
commodities from the Journal of Commerce that includes rubber,
plywood and burlap is signaling  contraction  for an 11th month,
the longest stretch since a retreat of the same duration that
began in August 2008.  The JoC-ECRI Industrial Smoothed  Price Index  reached its
most negative ever in December 2008, when the panel dating U.S.
business cycles declared a recession. Europe’s debt crisis will
be contained and the U.S. and China are still expanding, Goldman
said. Credit Suisse highlighted global growth and low  interest
rates . The  Federal Reserve  cut its U.S. forecasts last week, a
Chinese factory output gauge indicated an eighth monthly drop,
and German business confidence fell to a two-year low.  “The picture that’s emerging is pretty clear: there’s a
global slowdown of significant proportions,” said Martin Murenbeeld, the chief economist at Toronto-based DundeeWealth
Inc., which manages about C$100 billion ($97 billion) of assets.
“Commodities are simply reacting to the facts as they are on
the ground.”  Economic Cycle  The JoC index, tracking the annual growth rate of 18
commodities, fell below zero in August. The measure, begun in
1985 by Geoffrey Moore, founder of the Economic Cycle Research
Institute and a mentor to former Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan ,
tracks the ratio of price changes from a year earlier. Nine
components, including ethylene and red oak, aren’t traded on
U.S. exchanges and are less influenced by investor sentiment.  The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of 24 commodity
futures, which peaked six months after the JoC index turned
negative, retreated more than 20 percent since February, the
common definition of a bear market. Investors fleeing for the
perceived safety of government debt drove a 1.9 percent return
in Treasuries this year, a Bank of America Corp. index shows.
The dollar gained 2.7 percent against a basket of six major
trading partners, and the MSCI All-Country World Index of
equities rose 0.4 percent.  Natural Gas  Seventeen of 24 commodities tracked by the S&P GSCI fell at
least 20 percent from their highs in the past year, including
copper, gasoline, cotton,  natural gas , aluminum and corn. Crude
oil tumbled 29 percent from its closing peak on Feb. 24,
reaching an eight-month low of $77.56 a barrel in  New York  on
June 22.  During the 11 previous commodity bear markets since 1973,
the S&P GSCI fell for 15 months on average with losses of about
22 percent beyond the initial 20 percent retreat, according to
Kevin Pleines, an analyst at Birinyi Associates Inc. in
Westport,  Connecticut . About 63 percent of the time, the gauge
bottomed within six months of reaching a bear market, Pleines
said in a June 22 report.  The rebound may be swifter this time because global growth
is forecast by the  International Monetary Fund  to accelerate to
4.1 percent next year, from 3.5 percent in 2012.  The slump is “likely overdone, and the price risks are
shifting more to the upside” as Europe contains its debt crisis
and central banks take action to spur growth,  Jeffrey Currie ,
Goldman’s head of commodities research in New York, wrote in the
June 11 report. The bank advised buying oil, copper, aluminum,
natural gas and gold. The S&P GSCI fell 1.7 percent since then.  Futures Markets  “Commodity markets have the potential to stage a
comeback,” Credit Suisse analysts led by  Tobias Merath  wrote in
their report, saying that “undervalued” metals markets may
present the best opportunities. The S&P GSCI Total Return Index,
which takes into account the cost of maintaining positions in
futures markets, will rise to 4,690 points in 12 months, from
4,291.2 yesterday, they said.  The Fed has kept benchmark U.S.  interest rates  near zero
since December 2008 and said June 20 it expects to keep rates
“exceptionally low” at least through late 2014. That same day,
central bank policy makers extended Operation Twist, a program
to replace short-term bonds with longer-term debt.  Commodity bulls anticipate the Fed will take more steps to
keep the economy from stagnating, including a third round of so-
called quantitative easing. The central bank bought $2.3
trillion of debt in two rounds through June 2011, during which
the S&P GSCI rose more than 80 percent.  China Demand  China, the largest consumer of everything from copper and
cotton to pork and soybeans, cut interest rates on June 7 for
the first time since 2008 after growth slowed for five straight
quarters. Chinese banks made record loans in May after the
government reduced the amount of cash they must set aside as
reserves for a third time in six months.  “There’s easing everywhere, and that’s the reason that as
an investor you have to be more optimistic,” said  James Paulsen , the chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management, which oversees about $333 billion of assets. “The
biggest catalyst that could change things is the  emerging
markets  showing a re-acceleration in growth.”  That may be curbed by depreciating emerging-market
currencies, which raises costs for buyers of dollar-denominated
commodities. India’s rupee sank to a record low on June 22 while
China’s  yuan  has depreciated 1 percent since March, more than in
any other period since its 1994 devaluation.  Commodity Investment  The S&P GSCI as much as quadrupled in the past decade,
attracting $394 billion of investment by May, according to
Barclays Plc. There was $10 billion invested in 2001, based on
the bank’s measure of exchange-traded products, index-linked
funds and medium-term notes. There were 1.42 million U.S. oil
futures outstanding, exchange data yesterday showed, up from
420,988 at the end of 2001. Prices are about four times higher.  While Greece elected a new government this month, easing
concern that the 17-nation  euro zone  would rupture, European
leaders are still in conflict after the incoming officials said
they plan to scrap some austerity measures and reduce sales
taxes.  Greece, Ireland and Portugal have already sought bailouts
and Spain formally requested aid for its banks yesterday. The
economy of the bloc sharing the common currency will contract
0.5 percent in the second quarter, entering a recession that
won’t end until next year, according to the median of 16
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Critical Stage’  Europe’s crisis “has reached a critical stage,” and the
“economic environment continues to deteriorate,” the
International Monetary Fund said in a report June 21. The Fed
lowered its forecast for U.S. growth to 1.9 percent to 2.4
percent on June 20, from 2.4 percent to 2.9 percent in April.  “There is not a lot of demand,” said Stephen Hammers, who
helps manage $1 billion of assets at Compass EMP Funds in
Brentwood,  Tennessee . “China may make things for the world, but
if the world is not buying it, then it affects them too. We can
be in this environment for the next couple of years.”  Economists are becoming more pessimistic as commodity
analysts anticipate ample supply. Global oil output will rise
2.4 percent to 89.06 million barrels a day in 2012, exceeding
consumption of 88.78 million, the U.S. Department of Energy said
June 12. Crude  inventories  reached 387.3 million barrels on June
15, the highest since 1990, government data show. The U.S. pump
price for gasoline fell 13 percent to $3.411 a gallon from a 10-
month high on April 4, AAA data show.  Metals Output  Global aluminum production will exceed demand until 2015,
while stockpiles will grow this year for lead, zinc and nickel,
Morgan Stanley said in a June 17 report. Speculators have been
betting on a slump in copper for five weeks, the most-bearish
run since January, U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission
data show. The price has dropped 28 percent to $3.3205 a pound
since setting a record close in February 2011 in New York.  Chile’s Codelco, the world’s biggest copper producer, plans
to spend as much as $27 billion this decade to revive aging
mines. Australia, the world’s biggest iron-ore exporter, said
mineral exploration spending rose 12 percent to a record A$1.09
billion ($1.09 billion) in the March quarter.  Corn farmers in the U.S., the world’s top grower and
exporter, are forecast by the government to plant the most acres
since 1937. Sugar and cotton are predicted to be in surplus this
year, according to Rabobank International.  Equities Markets  U.S. equities beat industrial commodities in three of the
past four slumps, data compiled by Bloomberg show. In the 16-
month U.S. recession from July 1981 to November 1982, the  Dow
Jones Industrial Average  gained 9.1 percent as the S&P GSCI fell
11 percent. From December 2007 through June 2009, the S&P GSCI
slumped 26 percent while the Dow tumbled 36 percent.  “The global economy is getting worse,” said  Michael Pento , the president of Pento Portfolio Strategies in Holmdel,
New Jersey who correctly forecast the commodity slump of 2008.
“The only thing that will save commodity prices for now is
massive intervention from the  European Central Bank  and the Fed.
I do think the intervention is coming, but just not right
away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Richter in New York at 
 jrichter1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  