-- Cemex Gains Amid Talks to Extend 2009 Loan Agreement
-- B y   B r e n d a n   C a s e   a n d   V e r o n i c a   N a v a r r o   E s p i n o s a
-- 2012-06-25T20:17:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/cemex-negotiating-with-banks-in-bid-to-lengthen-loan-maturity.html
Cemex SAB (CEMEXCPO) ’s stock and bonds rallied
after the largest cement maker in the Americas said it’s
negotiating with banks on extending the maturity of a 2009 loan
agreement that prevented default.  The three-year extension would push the maturity to 2017
and include a $1 billion debt payment in 2013, Cemex said today
in a statement. The Monterrey, Mexico-based company plans to
hold talks June 29 and July 2 with all the involved lenders
after discussing the plan with banks holding about 50 percent of
the outstanding debt from its 2009 accord.  Cemex has struggled since that agreement to meet debt
limits imposed by creditors as the U.S. housing slump and global
economic slowdown hurt demand for building materials. Revised
financial and operational covenants are part of the new
proposal, Cemex said.  “This would take away the worry around Cemex for the next
four years,” Esteban Polidura, a Deutsche Bank AG analyst in
Mexico City who recommends buying the American depositary
receipts, said in a telephone interview. “There are good
possibilities that the refinancing will be done with all the
banks.”  Cemex rose 7.7 percent to 8.53 pesos at the close in Mexico
City, the biggest increase since Feb. 2. The  shares  have gained
19 percent this year.  Cemex convertible 4.875 percent bonds due in March 2015
rose 4.7 cents on the dollar to 82.87 cents at 3:52 p.m. in New
York, according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. The yield on the notes
fell 246 basis points to 12.5 percent.  ‘Easier Terms’  “While uncertainty remains large in the global economy
now, presumably by 2017, the construction sector would recover,
allowing the company either to repay its loans or refinance
under easier terms,” Joe Kogan, head of  emerging markets 
strategy with Scotia  Capital Markets  in New York, wrote in a
note to clients.  Cemex’s  credit rating  was cut seven grades by  Standard &
Poor’s  during a five-month span ending in March 2009 after the
company’s debt tripled following the $14.2 billion purchase of
Rinker Group Ltd. two years earlier.  The deal, completed just as a housing slump hit the U.S.,
was part of a two-decade, $29 billion acquisition spree by
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Lorenzo Zambrano.  “The refinancing demonstrates that the banks have no
choice but to continue working with the company’s management,
especially if the company continues to slowly pay down debt,”
Kogan said. “The company is so large and the cement merger and
acquisition market is so depressed that the banks do not have
any way of recovering their loans quickly by forcing mass asset
sales.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brendan Case in Dallas at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net ;
Veronica Navarro Espinosa in  New York  at 
 vespinosa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net ;
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  