-- CFTC Data Breach Risks Employees’ Social Security Numbers
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/cftc-data-breach-risks-employees-social-security-numbers.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  suffered a data breach in May, putting at risk Social
Security numbers and personal information of employees of the
country’s top derivatives regulator.  A CFTC employee received a “phishing” e-mail on May 21
and input information to a fraudulent website, according to a
copy of an e-mail sent to agency employees that described the
incident. A third-party was then able to illegally enter the
employee’s account, which had access to personnel information,
according to the agency’s description of the incident.  “The e-mail account contained e-mails and attachments with
the names, Social Security numbers and possibly other sensitive
personally identifiable information of certain individuals,”
according to the e-mail description. The CFTC has about 700
employees and regulates U.S. futures and swaps markets.  The e-mail description was confirmed last week by CFTC
spokesman Steve Adamske. “The CFTC believes at this time that
the data breach is contained to employee information and does
not compromise any trading or market data. Law enforcement has
been contacted and we will work with them as appropriate,”  John
Rogers , chief information officer at the CFTC, said in an e-mail
statement on June 22.  The agency told employees that it would be implementing
additional security controls for CFTC computer systems and
increasing training for staff, including those who handle
personal information. The CFTC arranged for employees to receive
identity protection from a credit-monitoring company.  The agency is writing regulations required under the 2010
Dodd-Frank Act that will govern trading by  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and other companies in the $648
trillion global swaps market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  