-- Chile Peso Falls to Three-Week Low as Europe Debt Concern Mounts
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-06-25T18:30:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/chile-peso-falls-to-three-week-low-as-europe-debt-concern-mounts.html
The Chilean peso fell to the lowest
in almost three weeks as concern European leaders meeting this
week will fail to control the region’s sovereign debt crisis
damped demand for riskier assets.  The peso plunged 1.1 percent to 508.78 per  U.S. dollar , the
weakest closing level since June 5. The Bloomberg JPMorgan Latin
American Currency Index  fell 0.3  percent as of 2:21 p.m. in
Santiago.  Global stocks declined  and the euro weakened before the
two-day summit in Brussels on June 28 and 29 where European
Union leaders will seek a solution to the region’s debt crisis.
German Chancellor Angela Merkel today again rejected joint euro-
area bonds to alleviate the situation, saying shared debt in the
17-nation euro area would be counterproductive.  “This is the week the market has been anxiously awaiting
for a long time: We will see if  Germany  is willing to put its
hands in its pockets,” said Cristian Donoso, a trader at
Banchile Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “In the meantime
there is an aversion to risk and a flight to the safety of the
dollar, Treasury bonds and bunds. Given how international
markets are evolving the dollar could keep strengthening.”  International investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
had a $10 billion short peso position on June 21, according to
data published today by the central bank.  Indicators of traders’ inflation expectations fell today in
 Chile . One-year breakeven inflation declined nine basis points
to 2.25 percent, the lowest since August. Two-year breakeven
inflation fell four basis points to 2.32 percent.  The forwards market for unidades de fomento, Chile’s
inflation-linked currency unit, showed traders wagering on 1.91
percent price rises this year. Annual inflation may slow to 1.75
percent in February, according to forwards trading.  “Even though the peso has depreciated, commodity prices
have fallen more,” said Katia Diaz, an economist at 4Cast Inc.
in  New York .  Two-year  interest-rate swaps  fell 10 basis points to 4.49
percent and one-year swaps fell eight basis points to 4.61
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  