-- China’s Economy Needs ‘Structural Change,’ Hang Lung Says
-- B y   D e i r d r e   B o l t o n   a n d   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-06-26T02:32:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/china-s-economy-needs-structural-change-hang-lung-says.html
Hong Kong  property tycoon Ronnie Chan said  China’s economy  needs “structural change” to
encourage  consumer spending  and help the nation weather the
global economic slowdown.  “Structurally,  China ’s economy must change and it’s
changing,” Chan, chairman of  Hang Lung Properties Ltd. (101) , said in
an interview with Bloomberg Television in New York yesterday.
“Personal consumption is one area that’s increasing, so in the
coming five to 10 years that will be one of the main games.”  China’s economic growth has slowed, prompting the central
bank to cut borrowing costs for the first time since 2008 on
June 7. Still, the Housing Ministry said this month that China
will “steadfastly” retain property curbs including higher down
payments and restrictions on the number of homes that buyers can
purchase.  The economy “is slowing because China is so integrated
with the world,” Chan said. “ Europe  is not doing well and
America is doing okay. As a result, it’s inevitable that China
will slow down.”  Cash-strapped Chinese developers are reluctant to buy land
after government curbs in place since 2010 to prevent a property
bubble tightened credit, draining liquidity. Hang Lung’s cash
ratio, a measure of liquidity, was 2.66 at the end of 2011, the
second-highest among the 50 biggest Hong Kong-listed builders
tracked by Bloomberg. The company is spending more than HK$40
billion ($5.2 billion) building shopping malls in China.  Hang Lung’s  shares  fell 1.8 percent to HK$25.10 as of 10:20
a.m. in Hong Kong. They have gained 14 percent this year,
compared with the 3.8 percent advance in the  Hang Seng Property
Index. (HSP)  Hang Lung has outperformed the other four Hong Kong-based
developers in the gauge.  Selling Bonds  Hang Lung, based in Hong Kong, has opened four malls in
Shanghai, Jinan and Shenyang, and will complete at least one
property in China every year until at least 2015.  Hong Kong’s third biggest by market value this month sold
$500 million of 10-year bonds to investors, its first dollar-
denominated debt sale since September 1993.  “I just don’t like the whole financing market in the world
today,” Chan said yesterday, without elaborating. “I want to
make sure we have some longer term money.”  The developer this year restarted sales of its Long Beach
apartment projects in Hong Kong, after a halt of more than 12
months. The sales brought in HK$850 million for Hang Lung,
according to a report by analysts including Venant Chiang at
Jefferies Hong Kong Ltd.  “Prices are very good,” Chan said. “We’re selling at 50
percent higher than the last time we sold or close to it so why
not.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Deirdre Bolton in  New York  at 
 dbolton@bloomberg.net ;
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  