-- China Has No Imminent Auto Stimulus Plan, Official Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-25T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/china-has-no-imminent-auto-stimulus-plan-official-says.html
China  has no imminent plans to
introduce more stimulus policies to help revive vehicle demand
in the world’s biggest auto market, according to an official
with the country’s top economic planner.  The  National Development and Reform Commission  is still
studying the feasibility for measures to subsidize vehicle
purchases in rural areas, said Chen Jianguo, deputy director of
the agency’s industry coordination department.  “We’re still looking into the issue of whether such policy
is even needed,” Chen said yesterday in an interview in Dalian,
China. “It is common sense” that there’s no need for the same
kind of stimulus policies introduced in 2009.  Chen’s comments may reduce speculation that the state will
step up auto subsidies after a government official said China’s
cabinet agreed last month to revive financial incentives for
consumers to trade in their passenger cars to help increase
demand.  Vehicle demand  in China has slowed this year with the
economy and as consumers push back purchases in anticipation of
government stimulus.  “The issue has to be studied closely, such as what vehicle
types are eligible,” said Chen, whose department oversees
industry planning. “There’s not much meaning to subsidize
farmers to drive sedans.”  The  finance ministry  said on May 29 that the government
will spend as much as 2 billion yuan ($314 million) a year to
develop alternative-energy vehicles to reduce fuel consumption.  Vehicle Sales  China’s vehicle sales for May rose 16 percent from a year
earlier to 1.61 million units, the China Association of
Automobile Manufacturers said June 9. For the first five months
of the year, passenger car sales increased 5.5 percent to 6.33
million units.  Dong Yang, deputy secretary general of the car association,
said at the June 9 briefing he was unaware of stimulus policies
for the automotive industry “anytime soon.”  The official Xinhua News Agency reported on May 30 that the
world’s second-largest economy has no plans to introduce
stimulus measures on the scale used during the last global
financial crisis. China had in November 2008 announced a 4
trillion  yuan  stimulus package.  Back then, the government gave farmers subsidies of as much
as 5,000 yuan to help them buy vehicles amid efforts to boost
sales. Rural drivers who replaced an existing light truck with a
new truck or minivan were given 3,000 yuan more.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at 
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  