-- China’s First Wind-Farm Lull Limits Outlook for Sinovel: Energy
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-26T12:18:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/china-s-first-wind-farm-lull-limits-outlook-for-sinovel-energy.html
China , the world’s biggest builder
of wind farms, is set for its first year of slower growth in
almost a decade as plans founder for expanding offshore, hurting
domestic turbine makers such as  Sinovel Wind Group Co. (601558)   Developers will install 18.6 gigawatts of windmills, 7
percent less than last year, according to Bloomberg New Energy
Finance. The state is curbing construction on land so that
power-delivery grids can catch up with the explosive growth of
wind energy in recent years.  At the same time, the government has failed to start sea-
based plants on schedule as officials disagree over sites. That
jeopardizes China’s goal to rival  Europe  by 2020 as the largest
installer offshore, a faster-growing global market dominated by
European turbine makers such as  Siemens AG (SIE)  and targeted by
China’s Sinovel and  Xinjiang Goldwind Science & Technology Co. (2208)   “I see these goals as very unrealistic,” said Caitlin Pollock, a San Francisco-based analyst at IHS Emerging Energy
Research. China’s setback in ocean-based wind farms may restrict
sales for Sinovel, Goldwind and Chinese competitors “striving
to enter as many new markets as possible.”  Sinovel and Goldwind, the nation’s biggest wind-turbine
makers, are chasing ocean-based projects as a way to gain
credibility to eventually compete with the main European
suppliers in a global offshore market that IHS Emerging Energy
Research says is set to grow nine-fold through 2025 to almost
$52 billion a year.  Siemens, Vestas  More than 90 percent of wind farms being built off European
shores are using turbines from suppliers such as Siemens, Areva
SA of  France  and  Denmark ’s Vestas Wind Systems A/S, data
compiled by Bloomberg show.  “Developers may not buy Chinese offshore turbines because
they have little track record of operation and maintenance,”
said Demi Zhu, a Beijing-based analyst at BNEF. “It’s currently
impossible to find offshore  wind turbines  that provide high
reliability and low maintenance costs in China.”  Disputes among competing government authorities over site
locations have blocked progress on China’s goal to build 30
gigawatts of offshore capacity by 2020. On land, the government
has tightened approvals for new projects after the nation lost
10 billion kilowatt-hours of wind power last year due to an
overwhelmed transmission grid. Even so the new capacity, equal
to 17 atomic reactors, will still rank China No. 1 in new wind
parks in 2012.  Vestas, Suzlon  Vestas and Suzlon Energy Ltd. of  India , two of the six
largest suppliers worldwide, said in the past week they’re
scaling back manufacturing operations in the world’s biggest
turbine market.  “The China wind market has peaked,” the London-based
researcher said in a note to clients on June 11. Goldwind and
Sinovel may seek to shift idled older capacity to the
development of larger offshore turbines, it said.  In contrast, Europe’s offshore market is projected to grow
by 86 percent from 2011 to 2015 led by installations in the U.K.
and  Germany . Overall, global onshore installations were forecast
to increase 20 percent in that same time period.  European governments don’t have official offshore targets.
Estimates from the European  Wind Energy  Association and BNEF
expect the continent to have installed about 35 gigawatts to 40
gigawatts by 2020.  China’s 2020 target is now looking unlikely. Work has yet
to begin on four commercial projects awarded in its first
auction in 2010 of offshore contracts.  That’s choking the ambitions of Sinovel and Goldwind, which
sell more than 95 percent of their turbines to the shrinking,
oversupplied onshore market at home, to expand into a new
segment dominated by Western rivals.  Shrinking Pie  Their shares have dropped 49 percent and 65 percent,
respectively, in the last 12 months compared with a 27 percent
loss in the Bloomberg Wind Energy Index comprised of 64
companies.  The stock of Sinovel closed at 7.5  yuan  in  Shanghai  trading
today and Goldwind ended at HK$2.87 in  Hong Kong , both little
changed on the day.  “Goldwind has been actively paying close attention to
offshore wind-power development with careful implementation,”
Ma Jinru, a Goldwind spokeswoman, said by e-mail today. The
company is researching and developing 6-megawatt offshore
turbines and planning 10-megawatt machines, Ma said. An e-mail
and a call to Tao Gang, a spokesman for Sinovel, weren’t
answered.  Yu Jianjun, vice president of Sinovel, said at a conference
in May in Shanghai that offshore will comprise about 20 percent
of sales in 10 years.  Growth Projections  While many manufacturers try to penetrate the market, few
are likely to win significant sales because of stringent quality
requirements set by project developers and their banks, Zhu
said. London-based BNEF revised down its growth projections for
China’s offshore wind market by 11 percent in January, saying
the lack of experience and limited access to capital is
decelerating growth from the government’s targets.  Only eight “serious manufacturers” will exist by the
latter half of the decade, according to BNEF. Siemens, the
biggest supplier of offshore turbines, says the field may narrow
to as few as five.  When China tendered 1 gigawatt of offshore capacity in May
2010, it expected the sea-based projects to alleviate power
shortages in the country’s major industrial corridor by building
the parks adjacent to the coast to circumvent a congested grid.  China Longyuan Power Group Corp. (916) , Datang Corp. Renewable
Power Co., Shandong Luneng Group Co. and China Power Investment
Corp. each won a project and tied up turbine contracts with
Sinovel, Goldwind and Shanghai Electric Group Co.  Low Bids  Eager for an early foothold, the companies bid at prices
that now appear too low, said Zhang Fangyu, general manager of
Datang’s Zhejiang Branch. The average winning bid was 0.68 yuan
a kilowatt-hour, half what Germany pays to offshore wind farms
for the first eight years.  “The bids aren’t demonstrable,” Zhang said. “We won’t
bid at such a low price for other projects in the future.” The
government should raise the tariff to 0.8 yuan to make the
projects profitable, she said.  China’s only large-scale offshore wind farm, a pilot
project built near the East China Sea Bridge, is earning an
internal rate of return of 7 percent to 9 percent, said Zhang
Kaihua, vice general manager of Shanghai Donghai Wind Power Co.,
the Datang unit that developed it. Onshore parks earn about 12
percent, according to BNEF estimates.  Longyuan and Datang say they still plan to complete the
projects even if they don’t turn a profit.  Investor Fears  That’s what scares investors, said  Michael Parker , a Hong
Kong-based analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. Longyuan and
Datang are “un-investable” and liable to “spend on new
projects at great haste without regard for returns,” he said.  “The single greatest investor fear about this sector has
been partially confirmed: They will build until they run out of
cash and then simply issue more equity,” Parker said on May 22
after Longyuan announced plans to sell 1.36 billion new shares
in Hong Kong, 20 percent of proceeds from which will be spent on
offshore wind projects. The stock has fallen 15 percent since
announcing that plan on May 11.  China needs 480 billion yuan ($75 billion) to meet its goal
of becoming the world’s biggest offshore wind market by
installing 30 gigawatts of capacity by 2020. Raising the funds
necessary to meet that goal could be challenging, said Jerry
Weng, an analyst at KGI Securities.  “Few are venturing to enter the market now,” Weng said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Feifei Shen in Beijing at 
 fshen11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  