-- China Plant Gives Embraer Asia Jet-Sales Boost: Corporate Brazil
-- B y   J o s e   S e r g i o   O s s e
-- 2012-06-25T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/china-plant-gives-embraer-asia-jet-sales-boost-corporate-brazil.html
Embraer (EMBR3)  SA’s bid to sell more
business aircraft in  Asia  is taking off after the Chinese
government gave the world’s fourth-biggest plane maker approval
to manufacture the jets there.  The company said in a June 21 statement it signed an
agreement to build its Legacy 600/650 business jet at its  plant 
in Harbin,  China , which has been shuttered since the second
quarter of 2011. Embraer said later that day it scored orders
for the jets from China’s ICBC Financial Leasing Co., which
bought five Legacy 650 with the option to purchase five more.  “China is where every business jet manufacturer is trying
to grow -- the potential demand there that can be unlocked is
quite sizeable,” RBC Capital Markets LLC analyst Rama Bondada
said by phone from  New York . “They’re ahead of the pack now.”  Embraer and bigger  rivals  Airbus SAS, Boeing Co. and
 Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  are looking to Asia to help boost sales. Embraer
estimates China’s market for business jets will grow 10-fold in
the next decade to 635 planes, while Bombardier sees the
nation’s business-jet fleet rising to 2,470 by 2030 from 150 in
2010.  Plane makers are shifting their focus away from Europe,
where demand for the jets is slowing. European revenue made up
35 percent of Embraer’s first-quarter total, the most of any
company in Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Embraer’s regional-jet orders in Europe
dwindled to five in the period, down from 20 a year earlier.  ‘Karate Kid’  Embraer shares have climbed 14 percent this year, more than
twice the 6.9 percent gain of Airbus’s parent company, European
Aeronautic Defence and Space Co. Chicago-based Boeing is down
2.9 percent in New York Stock Exchange trading, while
Bombardier, based in  Montreal , dropped 2.5 percent in Toronto.
Brazil’s benchmark Bovespa fell 2.3 percent in the period.  Sao Jose dos Campos , Brazil-based Embraer hired Hong Kong-
born actor  Jackie Chan  to peddle the brand and show off his
personal Legacy jet, which has the Chinese symbol for “dragon”
on its tail, at air shows throughout Asia. Chan, the star of the
“Rush Hour” and “The Karate Kid” movies, became the first
Chinese customer to get a Legacy 650 in February. The 600 model
has a list price of about $30 million.  Boeing’s Chinese ventures have helped it capture 53 percent
of the local aviation market in China, the second-biggest
worldwide for new planes behind the U.S., Boeing China President
Marc Allen said this month.  Bombardier is transferring most of its commercial-aircraft
sales staff outside  Canada  in a bid to capture growing demand
for jets and turboprops in China, the  Middle East  and  Africa ,
Mike Arcamone, who runs the commercial aircraft unit, said in a
June 19 interview in Montreal.  Change of Plans  Embraer had initially targeted the Harbin plant to be
converted to produce E-190 commercial jets. It was forced to
scrap that plan when Chinese regulators turned down the proposal
on concern there wouldn’t be enough demand for both the
Brazilian aircraft and the ARJ21 being developed by Commercial
Aircraft Corp. of China.  As part of the deal announced last week, Embraer will build
the Legacy jet in a joint venture with Aviation Industry Corp.
of China. In April 2011, the Brazilian aircraft manufacturer
said it plans to make as many as 20 Legacy planes a year there.  “If they didn’t start manufacturing  business jets  there,
someone else would have,” said RBC’s Bondada.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jose Sergio Osse in Sao Paulo at 
 josse1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Helder Marinho at 
 hmarinho@bloomberg.net . 