-- China Faces Summer Steel Output Cut on Prices: Chart of the Day
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-25T02:08:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/china-faces-summer-steel-output-cut-on-prices-chart-of-the-day.html
China ’s steelmakers, the biggest in
the world, may cut output in the next two months as prices have
dropped at a time when the main raw material became costlier.  The CHART OF THE DAY shows the benchmark price of hot-
rolled steel coil has dropped 1.2 percent in China since May 23,
while  iron ore  has increased 5.8 percent. The profit squeeze
means daily steel output may fall as low as 1.8 million metric
tons by the end of August, about 12 percent less than the record
high in April, according to estimates by Custeel.com, a Beijing-
based industry researcher.  “Steelmakers are struggling to break even at current  price
levels , and summer is usually a slow season for demand and
production,” Hu Yanping, chief analyst with Custeel, said in a
phone interview from Zhangjiagang. “Smaller mills are more
flexible in adjusting production than larger rivals.”  China’s economic growth in the current quarter will be 7.8
percent from a year earlier, the slowest expansion in more than
three years, according to the median forecast of 15 economists
in a Bloomberg survey. The nation cut  interest rates  and
approved $23 billion of new steel projects in May to spur output
and spending, prompting a rebound in iron ore prices from a six-
month low.  The  spot price  of 62 percent ore delivered to China’s
Tianjin port traded at $137.40 a ton on June 22, rebounding from
a six-month low of $129.90 on May 23, according to data provider
the Steel Index Ltd. Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., China’s largest
publicly traded steelmaker, Wuhan Iron & Steel Co. and Angang
Steel Co. cut prices this month as demand slowed.  Steel output this year in China, which produces almost half
of the world’s total, will be 700 million tons, the China Iron
and Steel Association said June 16. That would be a 2.5 percent
increase from 2011, the smallest annual rise since 2008,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News using figures from
the steel association. Custeel expects total output of 730
million tons.  (To save the chart, click here.)  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Helen  Yuan  in Shanghai at 
 hyuan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Miller at 
 lmiller@bloomberg.net  