-- China Stocks Drop to Five-Month Low
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m
-- 2012-06-25T07:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/china-stocks-drop-to-5-month-low-as-citigroup-cuts-gdp-estimate.html
China’s stocks  fell, dragging the
benchmark index to a five-month low, as Citigroup Inc. cut the
nation’s growth forecast on concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will
reduce demand for exports.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362) , the biggest Chinese producer of the
industrial metal, slid to the lowest level since January after
Citigroup said  China’s economy  may grow 7.8 percent this year,
compared with a previous estimate of 8.1 percent. China Vanke
Co. and Poly Real Estate Co. led a gauge of developers lower
after the China Securities Journal said the government should
impose a “reasonable” property tax. Citic Securities Co. and
Haitong Securities Co. retreated more than 2 percent.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slumped 1.6 percent to
2,224.11 at the close, the lowest level since Jan. 16. The  CSI
300 Index (SHSZ300)  declined 2.2 percent to 2,456.52. China’s markets were
closed for a holiday on June 22. The  Bloomberg China-US 55
Index (CH55BN) , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese
companies, gained 0.4 percent at the close in  New York .  “Investors remain very concerned about the deteriorating
economy and the European situation,” said Cao Xuefeng, an
analyst at Huaxi Securities Co. in Chengdu. This month’s
interest-rate cut “didn’t seem to boost stocks a lot, as even
speculation about more loosening isn’t helping sentiment.”  The Shanghai Composite has fallen 6.2 percent in June, set
for the worst monthly  performance  since March, even as the
central bank announced a reduction in deposit and lending rates
on June 7 to prevent economic growth from falling below the
government’s target of 7.5 percent this year.  Economic Slowdown  The Shanghai gauge trades for 9.7 times estimated profit,
compared with the five-year average of 17.7, weekly  data 
compiled by Bloomberg show. The index has risen 1.1 percent
since the start of 2012, poised for the best first half in three
years.  China ’s 2012 gross domestic product estimate was cut at
Citigroup to reflect “anemic” domestic activity in the second
quarter and further weakening of European demand.  The escalation of Europe’s debt crisis may cause a hard
landing as weaker external demand erodes China’s growth by
nearly 1 percentage point, Citigroup analysts Shuang Ding and
Minggao Shen wrote in a report dated June 22. They said second-
quarter growth may slow to 7.3 percent.  Europe is struggling to contain a debt crisis that forced
 Spain  to call for a rescue, making it the fourth euro member to
need external funding as borrowing costs surge. European Union
leaders will hold a two-day summit starting June 28 on the
crisis. Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about
18 percent of the nation’s overseas sales, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  Commodities Slump  Gauges of  energy and materials stocks  in the CSI 300 fell
more than 3.7 percent, the most among 10 industry groups.
Jiangxi Copper slid 3.9 percent to 23.52  yuan . Tongling
Nonferrous Metals Group Co. declined 5.1 percent to 19 yuan.
Shandong Gold Mining Co. slumped 3.3 percent to 33.38 yuan.  Commodities slumped into a  bear market  June 21, a day after
the  Federal Reserve  extended its Operation Twist program while
refraining from a third round of debt buying known as
quantitative easing. The Standard & Poor’s GSCI Spot Index of
commodities fell 3.2 percent last week, leaving the gauge down
21 percent from this year’s closing high in February.  A gauge of  real estate companies  in the Shanghai Composite
fell 3.3 percent. China Vanke, the biggest developer, dropped
3.1 percent to 8.75 yuan, Poly Real Estate declined 4.9 percent
to 10.94 yuan. Gemdale Corp. slumped 6.4 percent to 6.39 yuan.  Property Tax  China should impose a “reasonable” property tax to ensure
the sustainable development of the housing market, according to
a State Information Center report published in the China
Securities Journal today. China should expand the property tax
base while reducing tax rates to help ease high prices, the
report said.  Brokerages led losses for financial companies, with Citic
Securities, the biggest, losing 2.7 percent to 12.31 yuan and
Haitong Securities dropping 4.5 percent to 9.26 yuan.  Chinese manufacturing may shrink for an eighth month in
June, according to data last week from HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics, and home values dropped in a record number of
cities during May.  Banks are willing to lend but demand for loans is weak,
 Jing Ulrich , managing director and chairman of global markets
for China at JPMorgan Chase & Co., said at a conference in  Hong
Kong  today.  After 13 previous interest-rate cuts, the Shanghai
Composite advanced nine times with the average result a 7.5
percent gain, data compiled by Bloomberg and Guotai Junan
Securities Co. show.  The index declined four times, all occurring during the
midst of the Asian financial crisis in 1998 and the collapse of
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in 2008. China may lower banks’
reserve-requirement ratios “soon,” the China Securities
Journal reported on its front page today, citing unidentified
people.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., tumbled 5.6 percent last week
to $32.53.  -- Editors: Darren Boey, Allen Wan  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  