-- Christie Budget Nears Approval as Financing Worsens: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e   a n d   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/christie-budget-nears-approval-as-financing-worsens-muni-credit.html
New Jersey and its localities are
paying the biggest yield penalty on their debt since October as
lawmakers prepare to vote on a budget that increases reliance on
one-time revenue.  The Legislature plans to decide today on a $31.7 billion
package that includes almost $1.9 billion of non-recurring
revenue measures proposed by Republican Governor  Chris Christie .
That figure is almost 6 percent of the budget, up from 4 percent
this year.  Standard & Poor’s  in February called the plan
unbalanced and dependent on “optimistic” economic forecasts.  Investors typically prefer states and cities to plan their
finances using repeating revenue streams rather than one-off
fixes. Bondholders demanded as much as  0.52 percentage point  of
extra yield above top-rated tax-exempts this month to hold 10-
year general obligations of New Jersey and its municipalities,
the most since October, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “New Jersey is certainly one of the states we’re worried
about,” said Robert DiMella, who helps oversee $5 billion of
munis, including New Jersey debt, at MacKay Municipal Managers
in Princeton, New Jersey. “They have significant structural
imbalances that they need to continue to work on. One-off type
of measures in the budget procedure are not helpful.”  Filling Deficits  From  California  to  Florida , legislators are looking to one-
time revenue to help close at least $40 billion of combined
state budget deficits in the fiscal year starting in July,
according to the  National Governors Association . That follows
$500 billion of shortfalls filled in the past four years,
according to the  National Conference of State Legislatures .  New York City ’s proposed $68.7 billion budget for the year
starting July 1 would use $3.5 billion of one-time revenue,
including money from a plan to sell taxi medallions. Florida
closed a hole this year with $33.4 million from a settlement
with banks that ended a probe into abuses stemming from the
housing collapse.  California Democrats are also using some of the settlement
for their spending plan, which plugs a $15.7 billion deficit.
The  yield spread  on 10-year debt of California issuers is at a
two-month high, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In New Jersey, the current spread is double the  five-year
average , data compiled by Bloomberg show. Since Christie took
office in January 2010, the spread’s widest point was July of
last year as Christie vetoed almost $1 billion of spending.  ‘Front Page’  “As the budget talks start to become front-page news,
spreads seem to widen in June,”  Andrew Pratt , a spokesman for
Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, said in an interview. “A lot
of this is uncertainty over whether a budget will be passed and
what it will contain.”  Christie’s 7.3 percent anticipated revenue growth is the
biggest of any U.S. governor and the most since before the 18-
month recession began in December 2007.  “We’re skeptical” of New Jersey’s fiscal outlook, said
Adam Weigold, who helps oversee $1.2 billion of munis, including
$400 million in four New Jersey funds, as portfolio manager at
Boston-based Eaton Vance Corp. “There are some ambitious
revenue projections in the budget, and the use of one-time
revenue fillers is not a positive and not really the way we want
to see you balance your budget.”  The use of one-time revenue is lower than when Christie
took office. The share was 13 percent in fiscal 2010, the final
year of Democrat  Jon Corzine ’s administration. It fell to 6
percent in fiscal 2011, Christie’s first budget, then to 4
percent for fiscal 2012, before rising in the current proposal.  Revenue Lag  “This administration relies on fewer one-shots than most
of the budgets passed by previous administrations over the eight
years preceding the governor taking office,” Pratt said.  Since the governor proposed the fiscal 2013 plan in
February, revenue has fallen short of projections. His treasurer
has estimated collections through June 2013 may be $700 million
under target, while the Legislature’s chief budget analyst has
said the gap may be double that.  The administration’s proposed plugs include diverting $279
million over two years from a fund that invests in renewable
energy programs. He’s also opted to cancel $260 million in cash
funding for roadwork and bank the money as revenue, while
borrowing to finish the work. The steps mean Christie, 49, who
faces re-election next year, didn’t have to break a promise to
cut taxes. He has argued with Democrats, whose budget includes a
tax-credit plan subject to revenue growth.  Road Work  The governor told reporters in  Atlantic City  in May that
the change in the road-bonding plan was needed to compensate for
an unexpected dip in energy-tax revenue after the warmest 12-
month period on record.  “We’re making a change in one year in order to make sure
we keep our promises to the people of this state that it’s time
for them to have their taxes cut,” Christie said. “I’m not
going to allow a one-time occurrence like a warm winter prevent
our ability to cut taxes.”  S&P rates the state AA-, fourth-highest, with a stable
outlook.  New Jersey  debt has earned 4.5 percent this year,
beating the 4 percent return for the $3.7 trillion municipal
market, S&P data show.  “We as a general rule don’t think the securities are
priced cheap enough for people to have a substantial position in
New Jersey paper,” said DiMella. “New Jersey residents should
be more positioned in national-type of paper” and wait for
yields to rise when the state sells more debt, he said.  Residents may get to vote on new bonds later this year. The
Legislature is working on a $750 million general-obligation bond
referendum that if approved would go before voters in November.
The proceeds are slated to build academic facilities such as
classrooms and labs. It’d be the state’s first general-
obligation sale for college construction since 1988.  Following are pending sales:  WASHINGTON  HEALTH CARE FACILITIES AUTHORITY is set to issue
$625 million of revenue bonds as soon as June 27. Proceeds will
help refund debt of Providence Health & Services, a nonprofit
corporation with facilities in Washington,  Oregon ,  Montana ,
Alaska and California, according to bond documents. Moody’s
Investors Service rates the deal Aa2, third-highest, with a
negative outlook. (Added June 25)  The LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY plans to issue $500 million
of tax-exempt revenue bonds as soon as this week, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Proceeds will be used for capital
projects and to refund debt. (Updated June 22)  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Kaske in  New York  at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net ;
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  