-- Cinram International Inc. Seeks U.S. Bankruptcy Protection
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-06-25T19:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/cinram-international-inc-seeks-u-s-bankruptcy-protection-1-.html
Cinram International Inc., a maker
and distributor of pre-recorded media products, sought
 bankruptcy protection  from creditors in the U.S., after reaching
a deal to sell virtually all its assets to units of Najafi Cos.  The Toronto-based company filed Chapter 15 court papers
today in U.S.  Bankruptcy Court  in Wilmington,  Delaware , listing
more than $500 million in debt and as much as $50 million in
assets. Eight affiliates also sought court protection.  Chapter 15 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code  allows foreign
companies reorganizing abroad to protect their assets from
creditors and lawsuits in the U.S. Cinram is seeking court
recognition of its Companies’ Creditors Arrangement Act
restructuring case in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice as
the main proceeding.  Cinram has reached an agreement to sell almost all its
assets to Najafi affiliates for an undisclosed amount, according
to a statement today. Cinram’s wireless business and certain
real estate assets will be excluded from the sale, which is
expected to close by August.  “Cinram will continue its focus on strengthening its
competitive position in the market with a much stronger
financial footing,” said Cinram Chief Executive Officer Steve Brown in the statement.  ‘Seamless Transition’  The company manufactures and distributes pre-recorded DVDs,
Blu-ray discs, audio CDs, and CD-ROMs for movie studios, music
labels, publishers and computer software companies.  Cinram has 20 facilities in  North America  and Europe that
can produce as many as 2.1 billion DVDs, 55 million Blu-ray
discs and 500 million CDs each year, according to its  website .
In 2009, it shipped 881 million units to U.S. retailers.  “Cinram is a market leader in its industries with a long
track record of best-in-class performance,” Jahm Najafi, CEO of
Najafi Cos., said in the statement. “We look forward to a
seamless transition for our customers.”  The case is In re Cinram International Inc., 12-11882, U.S.
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  