-- Claire’s New CEO Gets Thumbs-Up From Lenders: Corporate Finance
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   I d z e l i s
-- 2012-06-25T15:49:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/claire-s-new-ceo-gets-thumbs-up-from-lenders-corporate-finance.html
Lenders are signaling approval of
Claire’s Stores Inc.’s new chief executive officer, whose
marketing experience at Walt Disney Co. is fueling optimism that
the Apollo Global Management LLC-owned specialty retailer’s
results will improve even as its European division struggles.  Claire’s $1.45 billion term loan was quoted June 22 at 95.1
cents on the dollar to yield 5.9 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg, rising 2.6 cents since June 5, the day
before the company announced James Fielding’s appointment. Its
bonds returned 3.4 percent, compared with 1.9 percent all junk-
rated retailers, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Fielding was previously president of Disney Stores
Worldwide Sales, where he helped increase profitability by
focusing on children aged two to 12, similar to part of Claire’s
target demographic. His hiring ended the  Hoffman Estates ,
Illinois-based retailer’s search for a CEO after Gene Kahn, who
was installed by Apollo after the takeover and oversaw expansion
in Europe during the economic crisis, resigned from the role in
January.  The new CEO has a “pulse on the younger market, Claire’s
target customer,” Tom Ferguson, an analyst with Montpelier,
Vermont-based KDP Investment Advisors Inc., said in a telephone
interview. “It’s definitely a positive that they’ve filled that
position,” he said.  Claire’s $260 million of 10.5 percent bonds due in June
2017 last traded at 85 cents on the dollar to yield 14.89
percent, according to data from Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, counting
trades of any size. The bonds had fallen as low as 71.5 cents on
the dollar in January, after investors failed to embrace the
European expansion plans.  Leverage Declines  Fielding and J. Per Brodin, the company’s chief financial
officer, did not return a telephone call seeking comment.
Claire’s declined to comment through Kathleen Blomquist, an
outside spokeswoman who works for Rubenstein Associates Inc.
Apollo declined to comment through  Charles Zehren , also of
Rubenstein.  Claire’s, acquired by Apollo in a $3.1 billion leveraged
buyout in May 2007, has total  debt  of 8.8 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in the 12 months
to April 28, Bloomberg data shows. That’s down from leverage of
 16 times  on Jan. 31, 2009, as earnings recovered from the worst
recession since the 1930s, the data show.  The retailer, which has a junk category credit  rating  of
Caa2 from Moody’s Investors Service and B- by  Standard & Poor’s ,
had $2.4 billion of long-term debt as of April 28, according to
a May 25 regulatory filing. High-yield, high-risk, or junk,
bonds are rated below Baa3 at Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Europe Division  The company’s next maturities are an undrawn $200 million
revolving loan in May 2013 and $665 million outstanding under a
$1.45 billion  term loan  expiring in May 2014, Bloomberg data
shows.  The net loss at Claire’s widened to $19.9 million in the
three months ending April 28 from $19.6 million a year earlier
as its  Europe division  had the fourth straight quarterly decline
in same-store sales, company earnings statements show.  James Conroy resigned this month from his positions as
chief operating officer and interim co-chief executive officer,
and his responsibilities are being taken over by Fielding, who
started June 18, according to company statements. Fielding,
worked at Disney Stores Worldwide since May 2008, responsible
for global operations of 360 locations in 12 countries and
DisneyStore.com in five, according to a June 12 regulatory
filing.  Product Focus  Revenue at Disney’s retail business rose 6 percent in the
quarter that ended March 31 to $243 million, from $229 million
during the similar period a year earlier because of increased
sales in  North America  driven by promotional events and an
ongoing shift in store presentation, a May 8 regulatory filing
shows.  As president of  Disney Stores , Fielding repositioned shops
to focus on kids instead of fans of all ages and stocked
merchandise based only on the most important Disney franchises
such as Winnie the Pooh and “Brave,” the new Pixar Animation
Studios film that came out on this month. Products are now
grouped on stores shelves according to those characters, as
opposed to categories such as costumes and stuffed animals.  The company said at an investor meeting in February 2011
that traffic at remodeled stores was 20 percent higher than
existing locations and the revamped sites were 25 percent more
productive on sales and margin basis.  Salary, Bonus  Fielding will receive an annual base salary of $900,000 at
Claire’s and a yearly “target bonus” of 100 percent of that
amount, Claire’s said in the June 12 filing with regulators. The
bonus will be paid in full for his first year of employment and
then will be based on annual performance goals.  He will also receive a $500,000 signing bonus that would be
fully returned if his employment is terminated for “cause” or
if he quits “without good reason” before June 18, 2013. Half
the bonus would be repaid by Fielding if he leaves before June
18, 2014.  Claire’s hired him “after conducting an extensive search
and considering many capable candidates,” Peter Copses,
chairman of Claire’s and a  senior partner  at Apollo, said in a
June 6 statement. “At Disney Stores, Jim successfully managed a
specialty retailer with significant international operations and
a well-developed e-commerce business,” he said.  ‘Tough Time’  Claire’s is the company’s primary brand in North America
and exclusively in  Europe , focusing on customers from three to
18 years old. Its  Icing brand  targets a 23-year-old college-
graduate woman just entering the working force, while aiming to
attract a broader group of customers from 19 to 27 years of age,
according to the May 25 filing.  “In fiscal 2012, we plan to open approximately 125
company-owned stores with the majority of those being opened in
Europe,” Brodin, Claire’s CFO, said on a May 24 conference call
to discuss first-quarter results with analysts and investors.  Claire’s operated  3,074 stores  on April 28, with 1,944 in
North America and 1,130 in Europe, including sites in the U.K.,
 France ,  Switzerland ,  Spain , Ireland,  Austria ,  Germany ,
 Netherlands ,  Portugal ,  Belgium ,  Poland ,  Czech Republic  and
 Hungary , according to the May 25 filing.  “They’re looking for incremental growth in Europe,” said
Ferguson. “It’s a tough time to be focused on that market.”  Claire’s same-store sales fell 3 percent in the first
quarter, with a 5.5 percent drop in Europe, according to a
company statement on May 23.  Jewelry Revenue  The company had sales of $340.6 million during the first
quarter, down 1.7 percent from the similar period a year
earlier. Adjusted Ebitda fell to $50.5 million from $52 million,
the retailer said in the statement.  “The overall strategy that they’re pursuing to improve
same-store sales growth is not overly clear,” said Ferguson.
“I think they’re making a fairly big push in  jewelry .”  Jewelry accounted for 49.8 percent of global net sales in
the first quarter, up from 47.6 percent in the period last year,
the May 25 filing shows. Sales of accessories were 50.2 percent
of the total, compared with 52.4 percent in the first quarter
last year.  Claire’s is a “fairly low-priced retailer,” said Ferguson.
“That gives it some degree of economic resilience.”  The company has been “chipping away” at its refinancing
obligations and has a “highly manageable”  maturity schedule 
over the near-term, KDP said in a June 13 report.  It had about $170 million of cash as of April 28, Bloomberg
data show. During the first quarter, it paid down about $490
million of its term loan maturing in 2014 with proceeds from
senior secured first-lien notes, according to the May 23
statement.  Strategic Plan  “They’ve done a pretty good job at managing their
liquidity,” said Ferguson.  Management has some “runway” to implement its strategic
plan, which includes improving merchandise assortments and its
customers’ “in-store” experience, according to the KDP report.  “Jim is one of the best merchants in the retail business.
He has a great instinct for trends and how they translate to
products on the shelf,” said Gary Foster, a former spokesman
for Disney Consumer Products, who worked with Fielding for more
than seven years.  Foster  left his position at Disney to become
spokesman at  Clean Energy Fuels Corp. (CLNE)  this month.  “I have witnessed few executives who have the ability to
create a positive internal culture with his employees the way
Jim can,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christine Idzelis in  New York  at 
 cidzelis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net ; 