-- Colombian Peso Falls to Three-Week Low as Economic Growth Slows
-- B y   A n d r e a   J a r a m i l l o
-- 2012-06-25T18:49:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/colombian-peso-falls-to-three-week-low-as-economic-growth-slows.html
Colombia ’s peso fell to the lowest
in almost three weeks as signs the economy is slowing and
concern European leaders will fail to tame the region’s debt
crisis damped demand for the South American country’s assets.  The peso depreciated 0.6 percent to 1,802.63 per dollar
after touching 1,807.45, the lowest since June 5. The decline
pared this year’s advance to 7.5 percent, still the best
performance among all currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Investors are seeking the  U.S. dollar  as a refuge amid
the uncertainty surrounding  Europe ,” said Diana Guiza, an
analyst at Bogota-based brokerage Corredores Asociados SA.
“Internal dynamics are leading many to revise their growth
forecasts down and that’s also helping push declines in the
peso.”  Guiza said Corredores Asociados will likely lower its 4.9
percent growth forecast for this year after government reports
last week showed industrial output and retail sales unexpectedly
fell in April and the economy expanded at its slowest pace since
2010 in the first quarter.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  said yesterday the euro
may dissolve if European Union leaders fail to curb the debt
crisis at a June 28-29 summit. Europe should start a fund to
purchase Italian and Spanish bonds in return for budget cuts in
those countries, Soros said in an interview. German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  rejected joint euro-area bonds or bills, saying
that introducing shared debt now would be “counterproductive.”  ‘Less Favorable’  Colombian President  Juan Manuel Santos  called an
extraordinary session of Congress for June 27 and 28 to discuss
the government’s objections to changes to the Constitution
affecting the justice system, according to a  statement  late
yesterday from his office. Justice Minister Juan Carlos Esguerra
resigned last week over the changes that could paralyze
investigations into politicians with links to illegal
paramilitary groups.  The yield on Colombia’s 10 percent peso-denominated debt
due in July 2024 fell four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 6.97 percent, according to the central bank. That’s
its lowest level on a closing basis since the securities were
first issued in 2009. The price rose 0.326 centavo to 124.145
centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Jaramillo in Bogota at 
 ajaramillo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  