-- Congress Said to Consider Delaying Automatic Budget Cuts
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-06-26T21:47:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/congress-said-to-delay-automatic-budget-cuts-until-march.html
Republican and Democratic
congressional leaders are weighing whether to delay automatic
federal spending cuts until March 2013, according to a House
aide and industry officials who were briefed on the discussions.  The $1.2 trillion in automatic spending cuts over a decade,
half of which would affect the Defense Department, are scheduled
to begin in January 2013. At the same time, lawmakers must
decide what to do about income tax cuts and other tax breaks
scheduled to expire at the end of the year.  Leaders in both chambers are discussing whether to propose
a catch-all bill that would delay the automatic cuts, fund the
government through March or later and temporarily extend the
George W. Bush-era tax cuts and other tax laws, said the House
aide and industry officials, who asked to speak on condition of
anonymity.  “It is being seriously considered as one of the options
and there is no doubt about that,” Steve Bell, the senior
director of the Economic Policy Project at the Bipartisan Policy
Center, said in an interview.  The measure would follow a short-term stopgap spending bill
to keep the government operating after the start of the new
fiscal year on Oct. 1, the people said.  Automatic Cuts  The automatic spending cuts are required by the 2011
agreement to raise the U.S.  debt limit . The cuts were designed
to require Congress to find other  deficit -reduction proposals to
replace them. Lawmakers so far haven’t agreed on such a plan.  The second measure funding the government until March or
later would include the delay of the automatic spending cuts,
according to the congressional aide and industry officials, who
said they weren’t authorized to describe the option publicly.  Senator  John Cornyn , the Texas Republican who leads the
 National Republican Senatorial Committee , said today he’s aware
of discussions to put off so-called fiscal-cliff issues until
March.  “It’s a matter of triage right now, trying to keep the
patient alive,” Cornyn said when asked whether he sees Congress
passing stopgap measures. He said while he favors extending tax
cuts until March, he would prefer addressing the automatic
spending cuts this year.  “Sometimes Congress acts when there are no alternatives,”
Cornyn said of the automatic cuts. “I would be reluctant to
leave aside all the incentives to reach decisions sooner rather
than later.”  The Republican-led House passed a bill in May to avert
 defense spending  cuts and plans to vote in July on a measure to
extend the expiring tax cuts. Neither measure will advance in
the Democratic-controlled Senate. President  Barack Obama  opposes
both proposals.  ‘Fiscal Cliff’  “The House has acted to replace the defense sequester,
which President Obama’s own administration says would be a
disaster for our national security, with sensible spending
cuts,”  Michael Steel , a spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner , said in an e-mailed statement. “Next month, we will
vote to stop the largest tax hike in history. The bottom line:
We’re leading on the big issues that make up the fiscal cliff --
and the Democrats who run Washington are hiding.”  A short-term extension of expiring tax rates would add
complications for an already strained  Internal Revenue Service ,
said Mary Burke Baker, a government affairs adviser at K&L Gates
LLP in Washington.  “It complicates the programming IRS has to do,” said
Baker, a former IRS employee and congressional aide. “It’s
increased cost, both for the IRS and for taxpayers.”  Short-term Action  Any short-term action would be more of a problem if it also
occurs late in the year. In 2010, when Congress didn’t enact
tax-cut extensions until mid-December, the IRS delayed for
several weeks the start of the filing season for taxpayers
claiming itemized deductions.  The outcome of the November election will help determine
what action Congress may take to avert the automatic budget and
tax changes. The stack of tax-and-spending issues creates the
potential for a deal on fiscal policy, a partisan standoff or a
congressional deal that staves off an immediate crisis by
setting up another one in the future.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in  Washington  at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  