-- Constellation Jumps on Benefit From Modelo Deal
-- B y   N i a m h   R i n g
-- 2012-06-26T20:24:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/constellation-jumps-on-benefit-from-modelo-deal.html
Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)  gained the
most in almost a decade as  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  seeks to
acquire the rest of Corona maker Grupo Modelo SAB in a deal that
a person familiar with the talks said could bring a payment to
Constellation.  Constellation  advanced  13 percent to $21.86 at the close in
New York, the biggest gain since June 27, 2002. The Victor, New
York-based company, up 5.8 percent this year, was the  top
performer  today in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  AB InBev may buy the rest of Modelo for about $20 billion,
which includes a payment to Constellation to buy a stake in a
distribution joint venture, said the person, who asked not to be
identified because the matter is private. If the deal is
successful, Modelo would have to pay Constellation about $1.7
billion to gain control of their venture to import beer into the
U.S., analysts at Credit Suisse AG said.  A transaction between AB InBev and Modelo would be a “huge
positive” for Constellation, said Timothy Ramey, an analyst
with D.A. Davidson & Co. in  Lake Oswego ,  Oregon .  A deal would put to rest concerns that Constellation, the
world’s largest winemaker, would lose its right to distribute
Modelo brands at the end of their contract in 2017, said Ramey,
who has a buy rating on the shares. Constellation has done an
“excellent job growing the Corona/Modelo portfolio for 15
years” and it’s unlikely a combined company would want to
disrupt that, said Ramey.  Modelo, based in Mexico City, confirmed today it is in
strategic talks with AB InBev to expand its current
relationship.  Leuven, Belgium-based AB InBev, the world’s biggest brewer,
gained a non-controlling 50 percent stake in Modelo when AB
InBev NV bought Bud Lite maker Anheuser-Busch Cos. in 2008 for
$52 billion, the biggest brewing deal ever.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Niamh Ring in  New York  at 
 nring@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  