-- Corporate Campaign Spending Rights Affirmed by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-06-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/corporate-campaign-spending-rights-affirmed-by-high-court.html
A divided U.S.  Supreme Court  threw
out Montana’s ban on corporate campaign spending in a
reaffirmation of the 2010 decision that unleashed super-PACs and
left federal elections awash in money from big spenders.  Deciding they didn’t need to hear arguments, the justices
yesterday summarily reversed a Montana Supreme Court decision
upholding the state’s century-old ban. The state court had ruled
the law’s limits could stand for state elections even after
 Citizens United  v.  Federal Election Commission , the two-year-old
Supreme Court ruling that let corporations and unions spend
unlimited sums.  The court’s unsigned opinion in the 5-4 ruling said the
case asked whether Citizens United applied to a state law.
“There can be no serious doubt that it does,” the court said.  “Montana’s arguments in support” of the lower court
ruling “either were already rejected in Citizens United or fail
to meaningfully distinguish that case,” the opinion said.  The majority was identical to the 5-4 Citizens United
decision, which altered the national political landscape and
opened the way for campaign spending by outside groups to more
than double from the level four years ago.  Missed Opportunity  The latest action makes clear the court’s five Republican
appointees stand behind their conclusion that corporate campaign
spending is entitled to broad protection under the First
Amendment.  “Citizens United mistakenly overruled longstanding cases
that protected the fairness and integrity of elections,” White
House spokesman  Eric Schultz  said in a statement yesterday.
“Unfortunately, the court today missed an opportunity to
correct that mistake.”  President  Barack Obama  criticized the Citizens ruling in
his 2010  State of the Union  address. He has since given his
blessing to a super-political action committee supporting his
re-election, saying it is necessary to compete with Republican
challenger  Mitt Romney . Obama campaign aides have said they
expect to be outspent by Romney and his allies because of
several super-PACs backing him.  More than 600 super-PACs have raised more than $240 million
and spent $133 million this election cycle, according to the
Center for Responsive Politics, a nonpartisan research group in
Washington.  Nonprofit Organizations  Nonprofit organizations that don’t have to report donors
have spent at least $12.4 million in this election cycle so far,
according to the Sunlight Foundation, a Washington-based group
that promotes campaign-finance disclosure.  The expenditures by super-PACs and nonprofits add up to
more than twice what outside groups had spent by this point in
the 2008 election cycle, according to the Center for Responsive
Politics.  The U.S. Chamber of Commerce said in court papers that “to
the extent that there has been more speech in recent elections,
that is a First Amendment good, not an excuse to resurrect a
censorship regime.” The business trade group opposed the
 Montana  law.  Outside spending on state and local races -- which include
judgeships, ballot measures and gubernatorial and mayoral posts
-- is more difficult to tally, in part because of differing
disclosure requirements and deadlines.  The National Institute on Money in State Politics, a
campaign-finance research group in Helena, Montana, said that in
a sample of 20 states, spending by groups other than candidates
rose to $139 million in 2010 from $65 million in 2008.  State Bans  Critics of the Citizens United ruling had sought to leave
room for spending bans at the state level, saying they guard
against corruption.  “The states have a compelling interest in preventing
domination of state and local elections by nonresident corporate
interests,” argued New York, joined by 21 other states and the
 District of Columbia , in a court filing backing Montana in the
case.  “The decision today says that other states struggling to
deal with corrupting political spending are essentially
handcuffed,” Adam Skaggs, senior counsel of the Brennan
Center’s Democracy Program at the  New York University School of
Law , said in an interview. “The court has removed a promising
tool for states.”  U.S. Senator  Mitch McConnell , the Republican Senate
minority leader from  Kentucky , said in a statement the ruling is
“another important victory for freedom of speech.”  There has been “only minimal corporate involvement in the
2012 election cycle,” McConnell wrote in the statement and in a
brief filed in support of the group seeking to toss out
Montana’s corporate political spending ban.  Secret Donors  Those committees are required to report donors; many
nonprofit groups that also spend money in elections may keep
their donors secret.  David Bossie, president of Citizens United, the nonprofit
behind the Supreme Court case of the same name, said in a
statement that the Montana decision is “another win for the
First Amendment.”  The five members of the Citizens United majority -- Chief
Justice  John Roberts  and Justices Antonin Scalia,  Anthony Kennedy ,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito  -- remain on the court
and made up the majority in yesterday’s decision. Dissenting
were Justices Ruth Bader Ginsburg,  Stephen Breyer ,  Sonia Sotomayor  and  Elena Kagan .  At the time of the 2010 Citizens United ruling, 22 states
had laws banning or restricting spending by corporations and
unions, according to a report this month by the Corporate Reform
Coalition, made up of 75 organizations and individuals from
good-governance groups, environmental groups and organized
labor. Those states generally repealed their limits or declared
that their laws are unenforceable, according to the report.  Appearance of Corruption  The exception was Montana, which chose to continue
enforcing its corporate money ban.  At issue in the Montana case was the statement by the
Citizens United majority that corporate campaign expenditures
“do not give rise to corruption or the appearance of
corruption.” That’s an important conclusion because the court
has allowed campaign-finance restrictions as a means of fighting
corruption.  Montana argued that local and state elections are
especially susceptible to corruption from corporate spending.  The Supreme Court put a hold on the law in February.  Montanans enacted the 1912 Corrupt Practices Act by ballot
initiative. In its 5-2 ruling upholding the law, the Montana
Supreme Court said the state had “unique and compelling
interests” in barring corporate election spending. The majority
pointed to the so-called “copper king” battle at the beginning
of the 20th century, when entrepreneur Augustus Heinze and the
Anaconda Co., controlled by Standard Oil, used their money to
vie for dominance of the state’s government.  Shell of Authority  When the law was enacted, “the state of Montana and its
government were operating under a mere shell of legal authority,
and the real social and political power was wielded by powerful
corporate managers to further their own business interests,”
the Montana court majority said.  The Montana law barred direct election spending by
corporations, including incorporated interest groups.
Corporations must establish traditional political action
committees, which can solicit voluntary contributions from
employees. The committees were subject to contribution limits
and disclosure requirements.  The challengers included American Tradition Partnership
Inc., described on its website as opposed to “environmental
extremism,” the Montana Shooting Sports Association Inc., a gun
rights and firearms-safety group, and Champion Painting Inc., a
painting and drywall business with a single shareholder.  The case is American Tradition Partnership v. Attorney
General for the State of Montana, 11-1179.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in  Washington  at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Bykowicz in Washington at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  