-- Credit Swaps in U.S. Jump Most This Month Before Europe Summit
-- B y   B r o o k e   S u t h e r l a n d
-- 2012-06-25T21:55:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/credit-swaps-in-u-s-rise-as-european-leaders-head-to-summit.html
A benchmark gauge of U.S. corporate
debt risk rose by the most this month as euro-area leaders
prepare to debate stimulus measures in a two-day summit this
week that may decide the future of the currency bloc.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark used to hedge against losses on
corporate debt or to speculate on creditworthiness, increased
4.3 basis points to a mid-price of 119.7 basis points at 5:43
p.m. in New York, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.
Contracts tied to  Hershey Co. (HSY)  climbed after the chocolate maker
said it may pursue as much as $30 billion of acquisition
opportunities.  Investors are concerned that  Europe ’s debt crisis may
contaminate corporate balance sheets worldwide. European Union
leaders are set to consider further integration measures in the
currency bloc during a June 28-29 summit in Brussels as they
strive to hold down rising bond yields. French President
 Francois Hollande  and Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  have
voiced support for joint euro-area debt issuance, while German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  has signaled rejection of the idea.  “It’s a possibility that this could be the start of the
unraveling,” Robert Grimm, a trader at broker-dealer Odeon
Capital Group LLC in Greenwich,  Connecticut , said of the
gathering of European leaders. “The less they come up with, the
more skeptical people will be that they can actually hold it
together.”  Euro Skepticism  The gauge rose even as Commerce Department data showed
Americans bought more new homes than forecast in May. Purchases
rose 7.6 percent from April to an annual rate of 369,000, the
most since April 2010. Economists had forecast a pace of
347,000, according to the median of 67 estimates in a Bloomberg
News survey.  “It’s really not a dynamic number,” said Grimm in a
telephone interview. “New houses are 10-15 percent of the
overall market so you have a small uptick in a small portion of
the housing market. It’s not going to overshadow what’s going on
around the rest of the world.”  The turmoil in Europe and signs of a contracting global
economy led Jan Loeys, chief market strategist in New York at
JPMorgan Chase & Co., to recommend investing in investment-grade
bonds.  “You need to get out of equities; you need to be in the
fixed-income world,” Loeys said today in an interview with
 Stephanie Ruhle  and  Adam Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Lunch Money.” “High-grade credit overall is the best place
to be at the moment.”  Default Rate  The trailing 12-month U.S. default rate on high-yield bonds
rose to 2.2 percent in May, passing 2 percent for the first time
since October 2010, according to a report today from  Fitch
Ratings . Defaults in May affected a combined $3.9 billion of
bonds.  “The funding environment for the weakest companies in the
high-yield universe remains challenging,” wrote Fitch analysts
led by Mariarosa Verde in the report. “Market access began to
sour in the summer of 2011, following escalation of the  European
debt crisis , disappointing U.S. housing and labor market data,
and disruptions caused by the U.S. debt ceiling debate. Since
then, defaults have been heavily concentrated at the ’CCC’
level.”  High-yield bonds are rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and lower than BBB- by Standard & Poor’s and Fitch. CCC
ratings have “high  default risk ”, according to Fitch.  Hershey Swaps  Hershey Chief Executive Officer John P. Bilbrey said today
during an investor meeting in New York that the candy maker will
prioritize acquisitions to expand market share. The company is
considering opportunities in China and  India , while Chief Growth
Officer Michele Buck said total acquisition possibilities amount
to as much as $30 billion.  The cost to guard against losses on the debt of the
Hershey, Pennsylvania-based company increased 2.7 basis points
to a mid-price of 52.4 basis points at 5:02 p.m. in New York,
Bloomberg prices show.  The swaps gauge, which climbed by the most since May 30
when it jumped 5.6 basis points, typically rises as investor
confidence deteriorates and falls as it improves. Credit swaps
pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails to meet its
obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A basis point
equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10 million of
debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brooke Sutherland in  New York  at 
 bsutherland7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  