-- Crescent Point Most Valuable on Light Crude: Corporate Ca
-- B y   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-06-25T20:47:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/crescent-point-becomes-most-valuable-on-light-crude.html
Crescent Point Energy Corp. (CPG)  is
increasing assets of easily refined crude, helping to make the
company  Canada ’s most valuable large stock. Crescent’s hedging
program is poised to keep it among the top ranks even as  oil
prices  decline.  Investors are paying 38.4 times earnings over the past 12
months for Crescent Point shares, the most among Canada’s
largest 35 companies by market capitalization on the Toronto
Stock Exchange. That compares with 8.2 for  Suncor Energy Inc. (SU) ,
Canada’s largest oil and gas producer, and 11.6 for Royal Bank
of Canada, the country’s biggest company, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Crescent Point, Canada’s sixth-biggest oil company,
produces light oil in western Canada, including the Bakken, a
reserve straddling the U.S.-Canada border that the  U.S.
Geological Survey  in 2008 estimated to contain about 4 billion
barrels of recoverable crude. The Calgary-based company has
acquired many of its smaller competitors in Saskatchewan and
Alberta, protects most of its production through hedging and has
the potential to boost production significantly, said Gordon Currie, an analyst at Salman Partners in Calgary.  “Crescent Point is in a unique spot,” Currie, who
recommends investors buy the stock, said in a telephone
interview. “They’re very heavily weighted in light oil, they
hedge regularly and they’re active acquirers.”  Shares Outperformed  The shares have outperformed the 20 percent decline of the
S&P/TSX Energy Index of 64 Canadian oil and gas producers over
the past 12 months. The stock fell 2.5 percent to close at
C$36.27 in Toronto and has dropped 19 percent this year.  Crescent Point expects to produce 80,450 barrels of oil and
natural gas liquids per day in 2012 and has identified drilling
locations that could add 575,000 barrels of daily production,
according to a May 10 statement. The company plans to spend
C$1.25 billion ($1.22 billion) this year drilling wells and
buying competitors.  As of April 30, Crescent Point had hedged 61 percent of its
oil production for 2012 and 52 percent for 2013, the company
said on May 10. The average quarterly hedge prices range from
C$94 per barrel to C$99 per barrel.  “With oil at $78, hedging is really paying off for them,”
Currie said. “It protects  cash flow  and allows them to conduct
their drilling program.”  Second-quarter results should reflect good results from
hedging, said Trent Stangl, a company spokesman.  ‘Massive Earnings’  “We’ll show massive earnings in the second quarter because
of hedging” as well as “really strong cash flow,” Stangl said
in a telephone interview. Still, he said there won’t be much
change to their capital-spending guidance in the second quarter
because of the decline in oil prices.  Oil for August delivery fell 0.73 percent to settle at
$79.21 a barrel on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange. Futures are
down 20 percent this year.  Crescent Point completed its purchase last week of Cutpick
Energy Inc. for an agreed price of C$425 million to add the
equivalent of 5,600 barrels of daily oil production. Cutpick’s
output is almost two-thirds light oil primarily in  Alberta ,
Crescent Point said in the June 20 statement.  The company has announced five purchases this year,
including Cutpick, Reliable Energy Ltd. and Wild Stream
Exploration Inc., according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  High Netbacks  “They’re very focused and aggressively bought up all the
competitors,” said Sam La Bell, an analyst at Veritas
Investment Research Co. in Toronto who rates the shares a buy
and doesn’t own any. “Their concentrated position is not open
to others.”  Crescent Point’s netbacks, the revenue from a barrel of oil
minus the associated costs of producing and transporting it to
market, are expected to be the highest among competitors for
2013 at about $50 per barrel, said Don Rawson, an analyst at
AltaCorp Capital Inc. Netbacks increased 11 percent in the first
quarter to $51.88, the company said on May 10.  The biggest risk for the stock is the price of oil, said
Rawson, who cut his rating on the stock to sector perform from
outperform and lowered his price target to C$43 from C$51.  “When the market sold off as badly as it did recently,
that was the rationale for putting it back to market perform,”
he said. “It’s still a quality name.”  The stock will “absolutely” remain more valuable in the
coming months compared with its peers, Rawson said.  Pay Premium  Crescent Point’s  gross profit margin  at 25 percent for the
most recent quarter is about half that of  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,
the world’s largest gold producer, at 51 percent and Suncor’s at
47 percent. Investors are willing to pay a premium because
Crescent Point is hedged against oil-price declines and has
little debt, said Rawson.  Crescent Point has about C$2.32 billion of debt, compared
with a market value of almost C$12 billion, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Like most competitors operating in the Bakken as well as
farther north in the oil-sands region, Crescent Point faces the
risk of not being able to transport its crude production from
Alberta and Saskatchewan to markets in the U.S., Currie said.
With new pipelines like  TransCanada Corp. (TRP) ’s proposed Keystone XL
and  Enbridge Inc. (ENB) ’s Seaway reversal and expansion, that risk
will diminish, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  