-- Cyprus's Sylikiotis in China to Explore Ground for Loan
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-25T12:56:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/cyprus-s-sylikiotis-in-china-to-explore-ground-for-loan.html
Fitch Ratings Co. downgraded Cyprus
to below investment grade, cutting it to BB+ from BBB- as the
country negotiates international aid for its troubled banks with
both the European Union and  Russia .  “Cypriot banks will require substantial injections of
capital in order to secure confidence in their financial
viability,” Fitch said today in a statement. The company
estimated the cost at as much as 6 billion euros ($7.5 billion).  Following the Fitch move, Cyprus is now rated junk by all
three major rating companies. It’s rated Ba3 by Moody’s
Investors Service and BB+ by  Standard & Poor’s . Cypriot lenders
risk losing access to European Central Bank funding.  A spokesman for the Nicosia-based Central Bank of Cyprus
declined to comment in response to a question on access to the
ECB.  “The Republic of Cyprus has both national and European
tools in its disposal to fully protect the sound operation of
the financial system and to further deal with the economic
challenges of today,” the  Finance Ministry  said in an e-mailed
statement today.  The island’s government remains committed to meeting fiscal
targets, to securing the necessary funds to meet the state’s
financing requirements and effectively manage the challenges of
the banking system in cooperation with the central bank, the
statement said.  Cyprus Finances  Fitch said that the government may miss this year’s fiscal
target as the deficit may widen to 3.9 percent of the economy.  The east Mediterranean island, which is the euro area’s
third-smallest economy, may see its debt climb to more than 100
percent of gross domestic product, Fitch said. Public debt
soared from 61.5 percent in 2010 to 71.6 percent last year.  Stefanos Stefanou, spokesman for the Cypriot government,
which has requested aid from third countries, including Russia
for a bilateral loan, said on June 20 that Cyprus is in talks
with the EU.  “We are in continuous touch and dialogue with the European
partners and EU’s institutions and work simultaneously in the
direction of securing a bilateral loan from another country,”
Stefanou said in a  statement  on the website of the Press and
Information Office.  The Cypriot president, Demetris Christofias, who opposes
austerity measures as condition of a rescue agreement, invited
political party leaders to his official residence tomorrow
afternoon to discuss the economy.  The EU is pressing Cyprus to seek a fully fledged rescue
program of as much as 10 billion euros that comes with a range
of economic and financial-sector conditions. Cyprus has sought
to minimize conditions and focus any aid on its banks.
Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the
group of euro-area finance ministers, said on June 21 that
Cyprus has “serious imbalances.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  