-- Cyprus Requests Funds Becoming Fifth Euro Nation to Seek Aid
-- B y   S t e l i o s   O r p h a n i d e s   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-06-25T17:56:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/cyprus-requests-eu-aid-for-economy-citing-spillover-from-greece.html
Cyprus sought a financial lifeline
from the euro area’s firewall funds, becoming the fifth of the
euro’s 17 member states to request a bailout.  “The purpose of the required assistance is to contain the
risks to the Cypriot economy, notably those arising from the
negative spillover effects through its financial sector, due to
its large exposure to the  Greek economy ,” the Cypriot
government said today in a statement distributed by the press
and information office in Nicosia.  The request will be limited to support for Cypriot banks,
which need less than 6 billion euros ($7.5 billion), in hopes of
securing aid with fewer conditions than a full-fledged economic
rescue package, according to a person familiar with the bailout
talks. The government still believes it has a chance to get a
loan from China or  Russia , which it might use to improve its
bargaining position, the person said, declining to be identified
because the talks are confidential.  Cyprus, which takes over the European Union’s rotating
 presidency  on July 1, follows Greece, Ireland,  Portugal  and
 Spain  in seeking help to return to financial health. The third-
smallest euro economy has been hurt by losses from Greece’s
recession and debt restructuring.  Formal Letter  The  International Monetary Fund , which has participated in
previous euro-area rescue programs, has not received a financial
aid request from Cyprus,  Conny Lotze , a spokeswoman for the
fund, said by e-mail. Cyprus plans to immediately send a formal
letter of request to Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who heads
the group of euro-area finance ministers.  Today’s statement does not request a specific amount or
discuss conditions for the aid being sought. It says Cyprus has
informed European authorities of its decision to submit a
request for aid from the European Financial Stability Facility
and its permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism,
which is due to come online July 9.  The new aid request from Cyprus comes after European
finance ministers last week failed to agree on their strategy to
contain the debt crisis, with creditor countries resisting
leniency for  Greece  and playing down market concerns about the
bailout of Spanish banks.  Spanish Lifeline  The euro-area officials offered no sign of granting the new
Greek government extra time to meet deficit-cut targets and also
quarreled over how to design a bank recapitalization for Spain
that could be as large as 100 billion euros. Spain earlier
formally requested a bailout for its banks and has begun
negotiating details of how it can use the promised lifeline.  Fitch Ratings Co. today downgraded Cyprus to below
investment grade, cutting it to BB+ from BBB- as the country
negotiates international aid for its troubled banks.  “Cypriot banks will require substantial injections of
capital in order to secure confidence in their financial
viability,” Fitch said today in a statement, estimating the
cost at as much as 6 billion euros. Following the Fitch move,
Cyprus is now rated junk by all three major rating companies.
It’s rated Ba3 by Moody’s Investors Service and a BB+ rating by
 Standard & Poor’s .  Europe ’s deepening financial crisis has driven borrowing
costs in Spain and  Italy  and euro-era records and has shut
Cyprus out of markets since May 2011. The Cypriot government had
previous said it would seek aid to recapitalize its banks, which
suffered 4 billion euros in writedowns of Greek government debt.
It also requested a bilateral loan from other nations, including
Russia, in order to avoid resorting to a European rescue.  Greek Losses  European authorities have pressed Cyprus to take a full
bailout package worth as much as 10 billion euros, resisting the
country’s attempt to limit any aid to its banking system, two
officials said earlier this month. The government needs as much
as 6 billion euros over two years for the banks, which have been
hit by losses in Greece, Michael Sarris, chairman of Cyprus
Popular Bank Pcl, the island’s second-largest, said on June 15.
That comes on top of more than 2.2 billion euros in maturing
debt next year.  The island’s government decided in May to underwrite the
issue of 1.8 billion euros in preference shares of Cyprus
Popular. Last year, the bank posted more than 3.6 billion euros
in losses, mainly on Greek government debt writedowns.  Cyprus, which joined the EU in 2004 and the euro in 2008,
defied European pressure to make a request before the Greek
election on June 17, one of the EU officials said.  ‘Unavoidable’ Recapitalization  Finance Minister Vassos Shiarly told reporters in Nicosia
that Cyprus would bargain with the EU for more lenient terms
accompanying an aid package “We have to obtain financing to
recapitalize the banks; this is unavoidable,” Shiarly said June
19. If euro-area cash comes with too many strings attached,
Cyprus will have other options, he said. “Your negotiating
position in talks with the European Union is much better when
you have a bilateral loan already approved.”  Nezavisimaya Gazeta  reported June 14, that Pavel Medvedev,
an adviser to Bank Rossii Chairman Sergey Ignatiev, said he
“wouldn’t be surprised” if Russia extended a second loan to
Cyprus in as many years. Last December, Russia lent 2.5 billion
euros to the island nation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stelios Orphanides in Nicosia at 
 sorphanides@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  