-- Daimler Investment Arm’s Tesla Stake Cut by Aabar Change
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-06-25T21:42:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/daimler-investment-arm-s-tesla-stake-cut-by-aabar-change.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s investment vehicle
that’s  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) ’s third-biggest shareholder pared its
stake in the electric-car maker by shifting 40 percent of its
Tesla holdings to an Abu Dhabi sovereign-wealth fund.  Blackstar InvestCo LLC, the Daimler-affiliated investment
vehicle, transferred 3.25 million Tesla shares to Aabar
Investments PJSC, which is also a Daimler investor, according to
a regulatory filing. Daimler’s Blackstar remains Tesla’s third-
largest shareholder, behind Elon Musk, Tesla’s chief executive
officer, and  Fidelity Investments , after the transfer, Jeff Evanson, Tesla’s head of  investor relations , said in a telephone
interview today.  Daimler’s investment in Tesla and purchases of its battery
packs and motors helped keep the Palo Alto, California-based
company afloat after its 2008 cash crisis. Tesla, which last
week began delivering the first versions of its battery-powered
Model S luxury sedan, has said it’s signed an agreement to
supply components for a new electric Mercedes-Benz model.  “We expect that Daimler is going to retain sole ownership
of Blackstar and not sell any of their shares,” Evanson said.
“We expect the Daimler investment will remain at 4.7 percent.”  Abu Dhabi Water & Electric, which had held 7.3 million
shares at the end of 2011, has divested its Tesla holdings, he
said.  Florian Martens, a Stuttgart, Germany-based spokesman for
Daimler, confirmed the share transfer in a telephone interview.  “Daimler’s partnership with Tesla has developed very well
and is long-term oriented,”  Thomas Weber , Daimler’s development
chief, said in a statement. “Both companies are leading players
for electric mobility and continue to push ahead together in
this field.”  The new Mercedes project with Tesla is for a B-Class small
wagon, Martens said, without elaborating.  Tesla fell 2 percent to $33.11 at the close in New York.
The shares have gained 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  