-- U.S. Defense Department Plans Tougher Rules on Small Loans
-- B y   E m m a   F i d e l   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-06-26T16:53:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/defense-department-plans-for-tighter-small-dollar-lending-rules.html
The U.S. Department of Defense plans
to strengthen rules designed to curb abusive lending to
servicemembers as Congress considers changes to a 2006 law that
regulates small loans, according to a senior military officer.  The Senate Armed Services Committee approved amendments to
the Military Lending Act on June 6 as part of its annual review
of defense policy, including one that would tighten the
definition of payday loan to cover other high-interest products.
The changes would also require the Pentagon to study and
regulate installment loans aimed at members of the military.  “The legislation has been extremely effective in stamping
out abuses involving these types of credit,” Colonel Paul
Kantwill, director of legal policy in the Department of
Defense’s Office of the Undersecretary for Personnel and
Readiness, said in written  testimony  to the Senate Banking
Committee today.  Kantwill said in his testimony that the department may
publish advance notices of proposed rulemaking once it is clear
what changes “may be included” in the final legislation.  Troop Readiness  Congress passed the law in response to complaints from the
Pentagon that so-called payday loans were often harmful for
servicemembers and affected troop readiness. The law effectively
banned payday lending to members of the military by limiting the
loans to an  interest rate  of 36 percent.  Payday loans are a form of short-term, high interest credit
in which borrowers leave a post-dated check in return for a loan
that is due a few weeks later. Annual interest rates can rise as
high as 512 percent, according to the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau.  Advocacy groups, including the  Consumer Federation of
America , have argued that some lenders have evaded the law by
redefining their products without lowering the interest rates.  “I hear from financial counselors on the installations
about the prevalence of payday-like products that are
specifically marketed to military families -- often with
patriotic-sounding names and the American flags on the website
to match, but with a sky-high interest rate,” Hollister “Holly” Petraeus, assistant director of the consumer bureau
for servicemember affairs, said in written  testimony . “And the
Internet is full of ‘military loans,’ some outright scams and
others with very high interest rates.”  Consumer Groups  Consumer and defense personnel groups, including the
Consumer Federation and the Military Officers Association of
America, wrote senators yesterday supporting the proposed
changes.  “We have a compact with servicemembers and their families
to protect them from abuses that undermine their welfare and
morale,” the groups said in the letter.  Bill Himpler, executive vice president of the American
Financial Services Association, said the lending industry fears
consumer advocates will push to ban lending to other groups like
fire fighters or police officers if further restrictions pass.  “They’ll get a foothold,” Himpler said in an interview.
“If they say it’s good for the military, why is it not good for
first responders?”  Himpler, whose group represents non-bank lenders, said
further restrictions will limit the amount of credit available
to servicemembers who may not be able to borrow from a
traditional bank. Senator  Jack Reed , who pushed for the
amendments approved by the Armed Services Committee, dismissed
the objection at the hearing.  “In terms of credit availability, particularly in this
market, when people are, you know, charging a 36 percent
interest rate, I don’t think we’re talking about losing good
access to credit,” said Reed, a Rhode Island Democrat. “You’re
looking about being, sort of, taken for a ride.”  To contact the reporter on this story: Emma Fidel in Washington
at   efidel@bloomberg.net ; Carter Dougherty in
Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:  Maura Reynolds 
at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  