-- Democratic Presidents Are Better for the Economy
-- B y   R i c h a r d   J .   C a r r o l l
-- 2012-06-25T22:30:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/democratic-presidents-are-better-for-the-economy.html
The prevailing political wisdom says
that a U.S. president should win re-election if gasoline prices
are stable, the stock market is climbing and monthly jobless
numbers are declining.  There is some logic to this: Such indicators affect our
pocketbooks and our psyches, whether or not the president has
much control over them. Yet short-term economic fluctuations are
not what make the nation strong or a president great.  A president is a success economically if he can help steer
the country onto a longer-term path of broadly shared economic
growth, and if his policies lay a foundation for sustainable
prosperity for the future. Although it isn’t easy for voters to
determine if a president is contributing to long-term economic
success, they can do better than base their decisions on gas
prices.  After three years in office, President Barack Obama has
enough of a record to judge against the economic performances of
other recent presidents. The rankings can help you cast a more
informed vote in November -- one that doesn’t view Obama in
isolation or depend on which candidate’s super-PAC spent the
most on advertising.  In “The President as Economist: Scoring Economic
Performance From  Harry Truman  to Barack Obama,” I compare the 12
presidents since World War II using 17 economic indicators,
including growth in gross domestic product, rate of
unemployment, inflation, population below the poverty line,
increase in the  Dow Jones Industrial Average , savings and
investment rates, exports and trade balances, federal budget
growth, and debt and federal taxes as a share of GDP.  Smaller Government  The analysis accepts Republican economic philosophy that
says the U.S. would be better off with a lower rate of federal
budget growth and a smaller federal budget relative to GDP. So
presidents were penalized if the federal budget grew faster than
the economy during their terms. Likewise, higher tax revenue as
a share of GDP also counts against a president’s record. It is a
framework that rewards smaller government.  The book examines each indicator for each administration,
and boils down the many aspects of a president’s economic
performance to a single score. The scores are derived using
basic statistical methods, including averaging each president’s
indicators, then determining standard deviations from the mean.
These methods produce a common unit of comparison for indicators
that are expressed in different units, such as growth rates and
shares of GDP. The results may surprise you (table).  As you can see, Presidents Harry S Truman,  John F. Kennedy 
and Lyndon B. Johnson rank first through third. Presidents
 George H.W. Bush ,  Jimmy Carter  and George W. Bush make up the
bottom three. President  Ronald Reagan  is No. 8, just one slot
above President Obama.  It’s important to note that the analysis uses a one-year
lag on the indicators to reflect that a president’s first year
in office is usually dominated by the federal budgets and
policies adopted under the previous administration. No
reasonable economist would blame the 10.5 percent inflation rate
and other weak economic conditions of 1981 on Reagan. Clearly,
Carter was mainly responsible, presidentially speaking.
Similarly, the slow economic growth of 2001 had nothing to do
with George W. Bush’s policies, and Obama cannot credibly be
blamed for the economic fallout of 2009.  Informed Vote  Truman’s first-place finish owes mainly to the vast
improvement in fiscal indicators. He was the only president, for
example, who averaged a  budget surplus  (2.4 percent of the
federal budget). He reduced the national debt as a share of GDP
by 46.1 percentage points (from 117.5 percent in 1945 to 71.4
percent in 1953), and tax revenue as a share of GDP at 16.6
percent was second lowest (only Obama’s 15.3 percent is lower).
Truman’s indicators in the general economy include the second-
lowest average  unemployment rate , 4.0 percent; the second-
highest annual productivity growth rate, 3.2 percent; and the
best average trade balance, a surplus of 1.6 percent of GDP.  In the middle of the rankings, we find Presidents  Bill Clinton  and  Richard Nixon  at six and seven. It might surprise
some that Nixon is right behind Clinton because the 1970s
produced such checkered economic results and Clinton is highly
regarded for his management of the economy.  Nixon, however, had the highest average savings rate; the
second-lowest percentage of the population below the poverty
line; and the second-highest increase in exports. Nixon also had
some big negatives, including the second-highest average
inflation rate of 6.6 percent and the highest increase in
unemployment of 4.9 percentage points.  Clinton’s term produced the second-largest reduction of
population below the poverty line. He came in fourth for GDP
growth of 3.6 percent; and he scored third for annual stock-
market growth. Clinton’s negatives include the worst
deterioration in the balance of trade at 2.6 percentage points
of GDP -- a surprise considering that he won congressional
approval for the  North American Free Trade Agreement .  In the end, Clinton comes out ahead of Nixon, but not by
much. Had Nixon not resigned and instead finished his second
term, his record would have benefited from the 1976-1977
recovery years, putting him ahead of Clinton.  At the bottom of the standings, the  George W. Bush 
administration had many strong negatives and few positives.
Bush 43 had the lowest GDP growth rate at 1.4 percent; the worst
average trade balance; the highest increase in population below
the poverty line; and the biggest increase in the national debt.  Counting as positives on Bush 43’s record were his low
average inflation rate of 1.8 percent (third place), second-best
export level at 10.8 percent of GDP, and the highest drop in tax
revenue as a share of GDP, 4.4 percentage points (from 19.5 to
15.1 percent).  Party Comparisons  The rankings can also be used for performance comparisons
of the two political parties. Conveniently, there are six
Republicans and six Democrats, so if we take the average for
Democratic and Republican presidents we can make a head-to-head
party comparison. The Democratic presidents scored substantially
higher than the Republican presidents, with a score of 26.95.
Republican presidents scored -26.95.  Other statistical tests, including the so-called min-max
method, which moderates the influence of extreme indicator
values, produce similar results. These are consistent
considering that the top three performers are Democrats and two
out of the lowest three are Republicans. Five out of six
Democrats reduced the national debt as a percentage of GDP,
while four out of six Republicans raised it. The story is
similar on budget deficits, with five of the top six
performances recorded by Democrats and four of the bottom five
recorded by Republicans.  With respect to GDP growth, three of the top four
performers were Democrats and four of the bottom five were
Republicans. In reducing the poverty rate, the top three were
Democrats and two of the bottom three were Republicans. The
Democrats also had a better record on employment.  Republicans had better records on reducing inflation,
achieving four of the top five performances, while Democrats had
four of the bottom five showings. Republicans also did well in
lowering  tax revenue  as a percentage of GDP, claiming the top
five spots.  So what does this tell us about Obama? When all of the
indicators are combined, he ranks ninth out of 12, one position
below Reagan but above Bush 41, Carter and Bush 43. Obama is
also well below the midpoint that falls between Clinton and
Nixon. For Republicans who view Reagan as an economic miracle-
maker and Obama as, well, something less than that, it might
come as a shock that Obama falls next in line in economic
performance.  Though Obama’s performance doesn’t sound very impressive
when compared with all the presidents, it is respectable when
compared with his immediate predecessor, Bush 43. Lined up
against his contemporaries after 1977, Obama ranks third out of
six.  Voters can decide whether to re-elect Obama according to
gas prices, the monthly jobs reports and fluctuations in the
stock market. Or they could take the long view and look closely
at where the  U.S. economy  stood when he took office and where it
is today, as Part 2 of this series will explore.  (Richard J. Carroll is an economist at the  World Bank . This
article, the first of three, is based on his new book, “The
President as Economist: Scoring Economic Performance From Harry
Truman to Barack Obama,” published in June by Praeger. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Turkey’s lessons for Egypt 
and the  Supreme Court ’s  ruling on Arizona’s immigration law ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  Rielle Hunter ;  Noah Feldman  on Justice
Kennedy’s  liberal moment ; William Pesek on  Thailand’s former
prime minister ; and  Ramesh Ponnuru  on who  Romney’s running mate 
will be.  To contact the writer of this article:
Richard Carroll at  richjcarroll@comcast.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Paula Dwyer  at  pdwyer11@bloomberg.net . 