-- Deutsche Telekom’s Greek Ambitions End With Cash Crunch
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-06-26T17:28:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/deutsche-telekom-s-greek-ambitions-end-with-cash-crunch.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  four years ago
bought a stake in  Greece ’s largest phone company, promising
investors growth in southeast  Europe  to make up for slowing
sales in  Germany . That offensive has now turned into a retreat.  Hellenic Telecommunications SA (HTO) , also known as OTE, is
selling assets in the region to stay afloat as the  Greek economy 
is mired in its fifth year of recession with unemployment at 21
percent. After the disposal of a 20 percent stake in Serbia’s
former telecommunications monopoly this year, OTE is now looking
for a buyer for its Bulgarian business.  Proceeds from the sale will help bridge a refinancing
shortfall of 800 million euros ($1 billion) to 900 million
euros, said a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to
be named because the plan isn’t public. Deutsche Telekom’s
European business, once hailed by Chief Executive OfficerRene Obermann as the main growth driver, shrank by 10 percent last
year as the region’s debt crisis curbed phone-service spending.  “They never really stood a chance,” said Fairesearch
GmbH’s Heinz Steffen, the top-ranked Deutsche Telekom analyst
according to Bloomberg data. “The business is still there, but
the growth fantasy is gone. As an investor, you have to ask:
Where did my money go?”  Obligations  Deutsche Telekom has spent a total of 4 billion euros on a
40 percent stake in OTE since 2008. As OTE’s stock slumped,
Deutsche Telekom has recorded writedowns of 2.6 billion euros on
the asset. The Bonn-based company determines OTE’s CEO and
consolidates OTE’s earnings as part of a shareholder agreement
with the Greek state, which owns 10 percent.  OTE shares have fallen about 90 percent in  Athens  since
Deutsche Telekom began acquiring the stock. They climbed 3.4
percent to 1.85 euros in Athens today, bringing their decline
this year to 36 percent and valuing the operator at 907 million
euros. That compares with OTE’s 3.4 billion euros of underlying
net debt at the end of March. Deutsche Telekom gained 1.2
percent to 8.38 euros in  Frankfurt .  The Greek phone company said yesterday it is exploring the
sale of its Bulgarian assets, including phone company Globul and
electronic goods retailer  Germanos Telecom Bulgaria .  “A potential sale of these assets would drastically reduce
OTE’s future financial obligations, while allowing the group to
strengthen its presence in its remaining strategic markets,”
OTE said in an e-mailed statement.  Bailout Plan  Globul is Bulgaria’s second-largest wireless service
provider with 4.3 million subscribers at end of last year,
behind  Telekom Austria AG (TKA) ’s M-Tel unit. OTE also owns assets in
Romania and Albania.  Turkcell Iletisim Hizmetleri AS (TCELL)  said yesterday it has made
no decision on bidding for Globul after the Capital newspaper
reported that the Turkish carrier may be among potential
bidders.  International Growth  Antonis Samaras was sworn in last week as Greece’s prime
minister, the country’s fourth since November, to tackle the
nation’s debt crisis.  Greece won a second bailout this year from the EU and the
IMF, taking the total rescue package to 240 billion euros. Under
the country’s bailout program, Greece has to reduce its  budget
deficit  to 7.3 percent of gross domestic product this year from
9.3 percent in 2011, and cut its primary deficit, which excludes
interest payments, to 1 percent from 2.4 percent.  The refinancing of OTE is secured until 2013 and the
division will evaluate further asset sales to generate cash,
Deutsche Telekom Chief Financial Officer Timotheus Hoettges said
last month.  Deutsche Telekom’s retreat from some European markets marks
a shift from its earlier strategy.  After acquiring a stake in OTE in 2008, Obermann told
investors that he intended to continue growing internationally.  Retreat  “In 2000 we made less than 20 percent of our total revenue
abroad,” Obermann said at the company’s 2008 annual  shareholder
meeting  in Cologne. “In a few years the portion we generate
outside of Germany could account for two thirds or more.”  As recently as last year, Deutsche Telekom’s then-interim
head of Europe, Roland Mahler, said the carrier was looking to
make acquisitions to consolidate holdings in market leaders and
combine fixed and mobile networks. No acquisitions were made,
and peers including  France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Telefonica SA (TEF)  have
turned to selling some European operations to repay debt and
secure dividend payments.  Everything Everywhere  The decline in European sales last year included the impact
of the separation of the U.K. business into the Everything
Everywhere venture with  France Telecom  completed in 2010,
Deutsche Telekom said. Excluding that, revenue from the region
dropped 5.8 percent.  Elpida Trizi, a Deutsche Telekom spokeswoman, declined to
comment.  Deutsche Telekom tried to sell its T-Mobile USA unit to
AT&T Inc. for $39 billion last year before burying the deal in
the face of regulatory opposition. To raise cash, the German
phone company is also evaluating options for selling its 50
percent stake in Everything Everywhere, people with knowledge of
the matter said in February.  OTE, founded in 1949, has a 445 million-euro loan and a 312
million-euro revolving credit facility due in September,
according to its  website . It also has a fully-drawn 900 million-
euro revolving credit and 1.24 billion euros in bonds due in
2013. OTE  reported  earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization of about 1.7 billion euros for last year.  Slim Prowls  Asked about the future of OTE, Deutsche Telekom’s Hoettges
said in May that “in the end, the Greeks will always need a
phone provider.”  The former national phone monopoly makes almost 70 percent
of its revenue from its Greek home market.  The sovereign debt crisis prompted asset values to drop
across Europe, inviting investors such as  Mexico ’s  Carlos Slim ,
whose  America Movil SAB (AMX)  has acquired stakes in Dutch phone
company Royal KPN NV and  Telekom Austria . Still, Deutsche
Telekom is unlikely to resume its prowl for acquisitions, said
Andres Bolumburu, an analyst at  Banco de Sabadell  in  Madrid .  “People thought the sector was going to be resilient, but
everybody who invested has been surprised by the impact of the
economic slowdown,” he said. “Investors really don’t want to
see any crazy new moves now. It’s a different atmosphere than it
was back then.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  