-- DirecTV, Dish Said to Receive Justice Department Requests
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-06-25T20:28:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/directv-dish-are-said-to-receive-justice-department-requests.html
DirecTV (DTV)  and  Dish Network Corp. (DISH)  have
received requests from the U.S.  Justice Department  about pricing
contracts with television networks, part of a broader probe into
whether pay-TV companies are squeezing out Internet-video
rivals, according to three people with knowledge of the matter.  The Justice Department sent civil investigative demands,
which are similar to subpoenas, to DirecTV and Dish, the two
largest U.S. satellite-TV providers, said the people, who asked
not to be named because they lacked authority to talk publicly
about the situation.  The government is seeking information about so-called most-
favored-nation provisions, which give pay-TV companies favorable
pricing and terms, two of the people said. Regulators are
concerned that the conditions are preventing smaller startups
and Internet-video distributors from obtaining programming
rights, according to the people.  Information about the satellite providers’ terms will help
the Justice Department learn more about the contracting
practices of the industry, another person familiar with the
situation said. The department also is investigating whether
 Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp. and other cable companies are limiting competition
from Internet-video providers -- a probe that was first reported
by the Wall Street Journal earlier this month.  Darris Gringeri, a spokesman at El Segundo, California-
based DirecTV, declined to comment, as did  Aaron Johnson  at
Englewood, Colorado-based Dish and Comcast’s  Jennifer Khoury .
Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman, also declined
to comment.  Shares Drop  DirecTV shares fell 1.4 percent to $46.82 at the close in
 New York . They’ve gained 9.5 percent this year. Dish’s stock,
down 5.2 percent this year, dropped 4.9 percent to $26.99 today.  As part of the investigation, the department is reviewing
whether Comcast,  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and other cable
providers used their dominance to pressure programmers into
letting them buy content at lower prices than online providers,
the people said. The satellite companies don’t have as much
market share as cable companies at a regional level, so their
contract terms are less of an antitrust concern, one of the
people said.  By stipulating that cable companies get the best prices on
content, most-favored-nation clauses may make it harder for TV
networks to turn around and sell their programming to Internet
services, such as  Netflix (NFLX)  Inc. Those types of buyers can’t
always afford the same terms as pay-TV giants.  Cheaper Purchases?  If most-favored-nation clauses were struck down as
anticompetitive, Netflix and other online-video providers might
be able to expand their video offerings by buying programs at
lower prices -- possibly in smaller chunks than what gets sold
to the cable companies.  Justice Department officials also are probing whether
Philadelphia-based Comcast broke the law by creating incentives
to watch programming through its cable services, instead of
through online-video providers, the person said.  The department is examining Comcast’s decision to not count
videos viewed on its own Xfinity application via Microsoft
Corp.’s Xbox toward a monthly limit on the amount of data users
can consume.  Comcast counts video viewed through online-video rivals
Hulu LLC or Netflix against the limit. That’s prompted
complaints by  Los Gatos , California-based Netflix that Comcast
unfairly penalizes its customers.  Comcast received a civil investigative demand from the
department that inquired about its contractual procedures,
including how it secures so-called TV Everywhere rights -- an
effort to make content available on mobile devices for pay-TV
subscribers, one of the people said. The letter didn’t ask for
any information about Internet data limits, the person said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  