-- Dollar-Funding Stress Levels Ease, Money-Market Indicators Show
-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-06-25T14:31:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/dollar-funding-stress-levels-ease-money-market-indicators-show.html
Money-market forward indicators
signal strains in short term dollar funding are easing as the
rate banks borrow from one another falls and traders bet the gap
over the federal funds rate will narrow.  Three-month London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which
represents the rate at which banks say it would cost to borrow
from another, fell for a second straight session to 0.4606
percent from 0.46160 percent on June 22, according to the
British Bankers’ Association. The Libor-OIS spread, a gauge of
banks reluctance to lend, was little changed at 28.5 basis
points.  Overnight index swaps, or OIS, give traders predictions on
where the Fed’s effective funds rate will average for the term
of the swap. The central bank’s target rate is set in a range of
zero to 0.25 percent.  Predictions in the forward market for Libor-OIS, known as
the FRA/OIS spread, narrowed to 29 basis points from 30.3 basis
points on June 22, according to the second rolling three month
contracts.  The difference between the two-year swap rate and the
comparable-maturity Treasury note yield, known as the swap
spread, narrowed 0.44 basis points to 22.63 basis points. The
gap is a gauge of investors’ perceptions of U.S. banking sector
credit risk as swap rates are derived from expectations for
dollar Libor. Swap rates serve as benchmarks for investors in
many types of debt, including mortgage-backed and auto-loan
securities.  The cost for European banks to convert euro-denominated
payment streams into dollars-based funding via the cross
currency swaps market increased. The three-month cross-currency
basis swap was 58.4 basis points below Euribor, compared to 54.5
basis points below on June 22.  Euribor-OIS Spread  The Euribor-OIS spread, the difference between the euro
interbank offered rate and overnight indexed swaps, held steady.
The measure of banks’ reluctance to lend to one another was
little changed at 44 basis points.  The seasonally adjusted amount of U.S.  commercial paper 
fell $8.9 billion to $998.2 billion in the week ended June 20,
the third consecutive slide, according to Federal Reserve data.  The price on one-year cross-currency basis swaps between
yen and U.S. dollars was minus 37.21 basis points, from minus 35
basis points yesterday. A negative swap price indicates
investors are willing to receive reduced interest payments on
the yen they lend in order to obtain the needed financing in
dollars.  Foreign-exchange swaps are typically for periods of less
than a year, while cross-currency basis swaps usually range from
one to 30 years. The latter are agreements in which a person
borrows in one currency and simultaneously lends in a different
currency. The trade involves the exchange of two different
floating-rate payments, each denominated in a different currency
and based on a different index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in  New York  at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at  