-- Dutch Pension Assets Can Help Mortgage Funding, PGGM Says
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-06-25T11:39:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/dutch-pension-assets-can-help-mortgage-funding-pggm-says-1-.html
Dutch investor PGGM NV said the
country’s pension funds, with more than $1 trillion in assets,
could help ease a housing slump by shifting money to funding
mortgages that are burdening banks’ balance sheets.  The retirement funds, which have suffered as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and low interest rates hurt government bond yields and
drove up liabilities, could benefit from increased margins on
mortgages, said Eloy Lindeijer, head of investment management at
Zeist, Netherlands-based PGGM. Investors could use Dutch
residential mortgage-backed securities to hedge interest rate
risks, he said.  “Before the 2008 crisis we exited the mortgage market as
we considered margins on mortgages far too low to make them
interesting,” Lindeijer said in an interview. “Now margins
have risen, and the market could benefit if large Dutch
investors become more active. It is high quality paper with a
very low credit risk. And we understand it well as it is close
to home.”  The Netherlands’ mortgage debt is among the world’s
highest, amounting to 110 percent of gross domestic product, the
Dutch central bank said in March. A 500 billion-euro ($625
billion) difference between outstanding loans and retail savings
at banks makes lenders reliant on market funding, it said.  Dutch  house prices  have dropped more than 10 percent from a
peak in 2008, according to data from the country’s statistical
agency. They will continue to drop into 2014 because of stricter
mortgage lending rules and a reduction of the homeowner tax
break that spurred the lending boom, the central bank forecasts.  Liquidity Gap  Pension funds investing in Dutch mortgage securities
“wouldn’t be the solution to the Dutch liquidity gap,” said
Lindeijer, 47. “It might help boost residential mortgage-backed
securities though if foreign investors see Dutch pension funds
are investing.”  The 2008 financial crisis, making investors wary of
securitized products, pushed up funding costs for banks. To
compensate, banks have increased  mortgage rates , driving
 interest rates  on savings deposits and mortgages to the highest
levels in Europe, the central bank said in a report last month.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service today placed on review for
downgrade the ratings of eight notes in two residential
mortgage-backed securities in the Netherlands. “Today’s rating
action reflects the increased counterparty risk following the
deterioration in credit quality of Dutch banks acting in various
roles in the affected RMBS transactions,” Moody’s said in a
statement.  The nation’s pension funds held 0.5 percent of Dutch
 securitizations  at the end of 2011, according to the country’s
central bank. PGGM manages about 125 billion euros for six
pension funds.  Pensioenfonds Zorg en Welzijn , the Netherlands
second-largest retirement plan, is its biggest client with 120
billion euros in assets at the end of May.  “We are relatively under-invested in Dutch mortgages,”
said Lindeijer, who became PGGM’s chief of  investment management 
in September after more than 20 years at the Dutch central bank.
In his last job there, he was director of the bank’s financial
markets division.  The Netherlands has the euro currency union’s biggest
pension industry, with 913 billion euros in assets at the end of
the first quarter,  data  from the Dutch central bank show. The
assets are held in collective plans run by industry, company and
occupational pension funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  