-- The Court Got it Right on Arizona Law
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-25T18:43:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/the-court-got-it-right-on-arizona-law.html
“Immigration shapes the destiny of
the Nation,” wrote Supreme Court Justice  Anthony Kennedy  in his
 majority opinion  deciding the fate of  Arizona ’s controversial
immigration law. Based on the court’s ruling, that destiny will
continue to be shaped in  Washington  rather than in 50 state
capitals.  Citing “the federal government’s broad, undoubted power
over immigration and alien status,” the court affirmed most of a
lower court’s ruling that federal immigration law trumps state
law such as Arizona’s. The state’s requirement that immigrants
produce identification papers at the request of authorities was
struck down. So was the imposition of criminal penalties on
illegal immigrants who obtain employment (federal law imposes
penalties on employers, not employees). Finally, the law
authorized state law enforcement officers to arrest, without a
warrant, anyone they had “probable cause” to believe was
removable under immigration law.  This last provision, Kennedy wrote, “is not the system
Congress created.”  The decision is encouraging not just in the details but in
its broad strokes. The court’s endorsement of the Supremacy
Clause and federal prerogatives is especially welcome given the
myriad efforts -- check this space to see how the attack on the
Affordable Care Act fares later this week -- to undermine long-
established uses of federal power.  Equally welcome is the manner of the court’s decision.
Instead of a 5-4 decision on habitual partisan lines, Chief
Justice  John Roberts  joined Kennedy and the court’s liberal
justices (minus Justice Elena Kagan, who recused herself) in a
5-3 decision that gave added authority to Kennedy’s solid
reasoning. (We hope the court produces a similarly authoritative
ruling on the health-care law.)  The court also upheld one of the four contested provisions
of the Arizona law: It permitted law enforcement officers to
check the immigration status of anyone they believe to be in the
country illegally. Enforcing such a provision all but requires
some level of racial profiling, given the preponderance of
Hispanics among Arizona’s illegal alien population. But since
the state insisted that profiling wasn’t necessary, and the
Obama administration declined to make reliance on profiling
grounds for its objection to the law, the court is right to let
that part of the statute play out “at this stage.” If the
provision produces clear civil-rights violations, the question
of its constitutionality can be revisited.  The decision will invalidate similarly unconstitutional
provisions adopted by other states ( Alabama  comes quickly to
mind). For any still considering such measures, there are many
reasons to avoid repeating Arizona’s experience. Its law was a
commercial albatross and a political liability, damaging the
state’s image and leading to the recall of the state senator who
sponsored the legislation. Arizona spent an estimated $3 million
defending the law and needlessly antagonized many of its own
citizens in the process.  Altogether, the ruling is a cause for celebration. The
system worked.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 