-- The Silvio Berlusconi of Asia
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-06-25T21:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/the-silvio-berlusconi-of-asia.html
Red warning signs are flashing again
in Bangkok, the capital of Thailand.  We’re not talking about flashing lights of emergency
vehicles -- although that might yet prove to be the case -- but
the T-shirts of protesters loyal to  Thaksin Shinawatra , the
billionaire prime minister ousted in 2006 and still dominating
Thailand from exile. Tens of thousands of “Red Shirt” Thaksin
loyalists took to the streets Sunday supporting amendments to
the constitution that would get their hero closer to returning
home.  Opposition parties and the judiciary are determined to keep
out a man they view as no less Machiavellian than  Richard Nixon .
So resolute, in fact, that they have resorted to warping the
nation’s democratic institutions to head off his return. It
proves that almost six years since Thaksin’s departure,
Thailand’s government is no more credible or efficient than it
was under his leadership.  What’s a troubled, stuck-in-2006 nation to do? Let Thaksin
return and get this mess over with once and for all.  Not that Thaksin, the  Silvio Berlusconi  of  Asia , deserves a
single baht of his money back. Like the former Italian prime
minister, Thaksin used his business connections to ascend to the
leadership. Once there, he bent politics to the will of his
family enterprises. The Thai state seized about $1.5 billion of
Thaksin’s fortune once he was driven from power, and he wants it
back.  Three Successes  Thaksin has been extraordinarily successful at three things
since fleeing to avoid prison: playing the victim, drumming up
support overseas and distracting Thailand’s leaders from moving
on.  It’s time to call his bluff. Let the man return and prove
that he’s not the crook that opposition forces claim. Force him
to demonstrate he’s about more than just recouping his wealth.
Make him stand before the Thai masses and explain his vision.  Will it be messy? Yes. Might the “ Red Shirts ” and the
“Yellow Shirts” loyal to Thaksin’s opposition renew the huge
protests that cost more than 100 lives? Absolutely. It might be
worth it because there’s no election or judicial decision on the
horizon to return the  Land of Smiles  to its former glory.  And that’s a problem. Investors have been patient -- and
well rewarded -- with a place that has suffered 18 coup attempts
in the past eight decades. Its 67 million people figure large in
the global supply chains of industries such as autos and
technology, helping to sustain fast growth rates -- an estimated
5 percent this year. That has made Thailand a must-invest
market.  But Thailand’s perpetual crisis is testing tolerance. Major
floods last year weren’t the fault of Thaksin’s sister, Prime
Minister Yingluck Shinawatra. Her unsteady handling of the
deluge that breached Bangkok’s defenses confirmed concerns that
she is both inexperienced and a proxy for her brother as he
finagles a way back into power.  Signs of incompetence and favoritism are what can cost a
country like Thailand opportunities and jobs. At a time when
developing nations try to become less reliant on export-led
growth and  Europe ’s crisis is deepening, Bangkok is preoccupied
with a man in exile. The way to end this saga is obvious.  Thaksin based himself in Dubai, but has visited everywhere
from  China  to  Japan  to  Montenegro  (where he secured a passport)
to the U.K. (he owned, for a time, soccer team  Manchester City ).
Recently, he embarked on a tour of neighboring Cambodia and
 Laos , fueling speculation he was circling Thailand to signal
that he’s closing in.  Straight Face  Somehow, Thaksin keeps a straight face as he compares
himself to  South Africa ’s  Nelson Mandela  or  India ’s Mahatma Gandhi. Yet every stop Thaksin makes is an opportunity to play
the martyr for the local media. Each visit is a chance to
organize major rallies and embarrass officials in Bangkok.  China tends to send its loudest critics overseas to
marginalize their impact,  Chen Guangcheng  being a recent
example. Thailand is finding that model doesn’t work when the
detractor in question can hire Edelman Public Relations and the
Washington lobbying firm of  Haley Barbour , a former Mississippi
governor, to burnish his image.  Why Thaksin has such a hold over millions of Thais, many of
them desperately poor, is a fascinating question. Thaksin tossed
piles of cash at rural communities, a windfall that convinced
locals that they were voting in their economic  interest  when
they voted for Thaksin. Some probably were. His health-care
programs proved very popular. Yet this solid powerbase enabled
Thaksin to bypass the nation’s governing elites, mainly on the
way to familial enrichment.  It’s time to stop blaming Thaksin alone. It’s not like Thai
leaders, generals and judges have seen to the nation’s political
development since then. Nostalgia for Thaksin would be
negligible had they abided by democratic standards.  Thailand  could spend another six years obsessing over all
things Thaksin. Or it could just bring him home, and sort out
this mess.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: Read more  Bloomberg View columns .  To contact the writer of this column:
William Pesek in Bangkok at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  