-- MediaTek, MStar Climb After $3.8 Billion Takeover: Taipei Mover
-- B y   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-06-25T03:07:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/mediatek-mstar-climb-after-3-8-billion-takeover-taipei-mover.html
MediaTek Inc. (2454) ,  Taiwan ’s largest chip
designer, climbed to a three-month high in Taipei after saying
it agreed to buy MStar Semiconductor Inc. in a transaction
valuing the smaller rival at $3.8 billion.  MediaTek rose as much as 5.1 percent to NT$288, the highest
since March 27, before trading at NT$282.50 at 10 a.m. local
time. MStar climbed its 6.9 percent limit to NT$195. MediaTek
said its offer was 20 percent higher than MStar’s June 22
closing price.  MediaTek and MStar, both Hsinchu-based makers of chips used
in televisions and mobile phones, agreed on a tender offer for
as much as 48 percent of the smaller company’s shares as a
precursor to a full merger that would create the world’s fourth-
largest chip designer, according to Nomura Holdings Inc. The
deal is the fifth-largest semiconductor acquisition in the past
decade, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, and would boost
the companies’ competitiveness and increase bargaining power
with suppliers, Deutsche Bank AG wrote.  “Industry consolidation between these two leading fabless
companies will ease competition especially for mid- to high-end
product segments and thus is good for margins of the two
companies,” Jessica Chang, a Taipei-based analyst at Deutsche
Bank, wrote June 22 after the announcement. “This deal is the
right action to take by both companies, which is going to have a
profound long-term implication toward the industry.”  MediaTek offered 0.794 of a new share plus NT$1 ($0.03) in
cash for each  MStar (3697)  share held as part of a tender offer, with
the two companies then proceeding toward a full merger pending
shareholder and regulatory approval, they announced June 22. The
deal values MStar at $3.8 billion and offers a 20 percent
premium, MediaTek Chief Financial Officer David Ku said.  Qualcomm, Broadcom  Yuanta Financial Holding Co. raised MediaTek to buy and
increased its 12-month price target 42 percent to NT$340. Fubon
Financial Holding Co. raised the stock to add from reduce with a
six-month target of NT$330.  Merging the two companies would create the world’s fourth-
largest chip designer behind  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) ,  Broadcom Corp. (BRCM)  and
 Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD) , Aaron Jeng, a Taipei-based analyst
at Nomura, wrote today. The combined entity would control 80
percent of the global market for chips used in TVs, and more
evenly distribute sales among the two companies’ major product
groups of phones, television and DVD chips, he wrote.  MediaTek, founded in 1997 and Taiwan’s 10th largest listed
company by market value, has posted seven consecutive quarters
of  declining sales  amid competition from MStar and Shanghai-
based  Spreadtrum Communications Inc. (SPRD)  and  RDA Microelectronics
Inc. (RDA)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Tighe  at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net . 