-- Emerging Markets Diverging Amid Volatility, Pimco’s Rahman Says
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y
-- 2012-06-25T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/emerging-markets-diverging-amid-volatility-pimco-s-rahman-says.html
Investors in  developing countries 
should seek higher quality credits able to withstand a worsening
global financial market as differentiation between emerging
economies widens in the next three to five years, according to
Pacific Investment Management Co.  The separation will be driven in part by countries’ ability
to withstand external and domestic shocks with flexible
policies, Lupin Rahman, executive vice president on Pimco’s
 emerging-markets  portfolio management team, said in a report.
Emerging economies will expand 5 percent per year in the period,
down from a previous forecast of 6 percent, according to  Newport
Beach , California-based Pimco, the world biggest manager of bond
funds.  “The more uncertain and volatile global backdrop we
foresee over the next few years will therefore give rise to some
economies faring better and ‘emerging’ faster than others,”
Rahman said in the report.  Brazil  posted the  slowest expansion  since 2009 in the first
quarter, while industrial production unexpectedly contracted for
a second month in April. The price of Urals crude,  Russia ’s main
export blend, has declined 26 percent this quarter. Russia
relies on oil and gas for about 50 percent of its budget
revenue. Credit Suisse Group AG predicts  China  will expand 7.7
percent this year, the slowest pace since 1999.  ‘Enormous’ Potential  Brazil is “likely to see some moderation in economic
growth as the commodity tailwind the global economy experienced
in the last decade tapers,” Rahman said. Russia’s “substantial
currency reserves and the increased flexibility in the ruble”
could help the country weather external headwinds, she said.  Emerging-market sovereign dollar bonds have  returned 6.82
percent  this year, according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes.
Local currency debt has returned 4.82 percent in dollar terms.  “We see enormous growth potential for India, but also
large and significant structural challenges,” Rahman said.
“These emanate largely from political stasis and lack of
progress in tackling important structural issues.”  “The key issues for China are whether the economy is able
to shift to domestic-demand-based growth from a reliance on
exports and if the political transition set for 2013 will
enhance or hinder this process,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  