-- England Exits Euro 2012 After Familiar Penalty Shootout Failure
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-06-25T01:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/england-exits-euro-2012-after-familiar-penalty-shootout-failure.html
England heads home from Euro 2012
today with the familiar feeling of a penalty shootout loss at a
major  soccer tournament .  England was beaten 4-2 by Italy on spot kicks after the
teams tied last night’s quarterfinal match in Kiev 0-0 after 120
minutes. It was the sixth time in seven occasions England lost a
shootout at a European Championship or  World Cup .  “It’s obviously a hard way to go out and it’s happened too
many times now,” England striker  Wayne Rooney  told reporters.
“Hopefully there’s going to come a time when we win one.”  Rooney and several teammates left the field distraught
after giving up a one-goal advantage in the shootout when  Ashley Young  and  Ashley Cole  missed consecutive attempts, giving
substitute Alessandro Diamanti the chance to send Italy into a
semifinal against Germany in three days.  England’s elimination comes after manager Roy Hodgson had
five weeks to prepare his team for the 16-nation tournament
following his May 1 appointment. His predecessor  Fabio Capello 
quit following a disagreement with the Football Association over
its decision to strip  John Terry  of the captaincy after he was
accused of racially abusing another player.  England surprised even Hodgson by finishing atop its four-
team group to set up a last-eight matchup with Italy, which
finished second in Group C behind defending champion  Spain .  35 Attempts  After shutting out an Italian team that had 64 percent of
the possession and a  tournament-high  35 goal attempts, 20 of
which were on target, England failed to take advantage by
winning the penalty shootout.  “Our defending was very resolute and we did very well to
hold out and give ourselves a chance,” Hodgson, 64, said in a
news conference. “But it was a chance we couldn’t take.”  Once England had secured a place in the knockout stages,
Hodgson put on extra practice sessions to ensure his players
were primed for penalties.  Still, hitting shots at goalkeeper  Joe Hart  at the team’s
base in Krakow,  Poland , wasn’t an exact reproduction of what
they faced at Kiev’s 65,000-seat Olympic Stadium.  “We’ve watched these players taking penalties in training
because penalty taking has become a bit of an obsession for us
in English football and they’ve done extremely well,” Hodgson
said. “But you can’t reproduce the tension, you can’t reproduce
the occasion, you can’t reproduce the nervousness.”  England took a 2-1 lead after Rooney converted following
Riccardo Montolivo’s miss.  Andrea Pirlo , a World Cup winner in
2006 and the man of the match last night, deftly chipped his
penalty down the middle of the goal to tie it at 2-2.  ‘Cool, Calculating’  Young smashed his shot against the crossbar and Antonio Nocerino scored to put Italy 3-2 up. Italy goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon saved Cole’s shot toward the bottom right and Diamanti
fired his kick into the opposite corner before being mobbed by
his teammates.  “The cool, calculating way that Pirlo had the confidence
to chip the goalkeeper, that’s something you either have or you
don’t,” said Hodgson. “There’s no amount of coaching or
training that can reproduce that.”  England ’s loss came exactly eight years after it was
knocked out by Portugal on penalties in the quarterfinals of
Euro 2004. It’s only shootout success at a major tournament was
against Spain in the last eight of Euro 1996.  Sepp Blatter, president of soccer’s governing body FIFA,
said May 25 that he wants to find an alternative to decide tied
matches, saying that the sport “loses its essence” when
penalties determine the winner.  Italy coach Cesare Prandelli said he concurred with
Hodgson’s assessment that penalties are “80 percent luck.”  “Obviously some decisive players miss less because they
have the right coolness and concentration and they’re used to
this type of pressure,” Prandelli told reporters. “But yes, I
agree with  Roy Hodgson  that luck is the most important thing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja at the Olympic Stadium in Kiev via the London
newsroom at   tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  