-- EQT Midstream IPO Offers Higher Yield Than Peers as Gas Slumps
-- B y   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-06-25T15:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/eqt-midstream-ipo-offers-higher-yield-than-peers-as-gas-slumps.html
EQT Midstream Partners LP (EQM) , operator
of natural-gas pipelines in the Marcellus Shale region, is
paying a higher yield than larger peers to attract buyers to its
initial public offering as the fuel hovers near a 10-year low.  EQT Midstream is being taken public by parent  EQT Corp. (EQT) ,
one of the biggest producers in the gas-rich region. Pittsburgh-
based EQT Midstream is seeking as much as $263 million in the
sale slated for tomorrow, offering 12.5 million common units for
$19 to $21 each, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and
regulatory filings.  At the midpoint, the proposed annual dividend of $1.40 a
share would pay investors about 7 percent, compared with the 6
percent 12-month  yield  of  Williams Partners LP (WPZ)  and the 6.2
percent annual  payout  to  MarkWest Energy Partners LP (MWE)  investors,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The higher payout may help EQT
Midstream woo investors as it attempts to expand its customer
base and reduce reliance on its parent, said Jason Stevens, an
analyst at  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)  in  Chicago .  “The market would likely perceive EQT Midstream as an
unproved player until they get their feet wet and demonstrate
the ability to gather third-party volumes as well as grow,”
Stevens said. Williams and MarkWest “are both larger-scale
limited partnerships with a track record for growth.”  EQT Midstream’s IPO will be the first in the U.S. in more
than a month, after Facebook Inc. raised $16 billion in a May 17
offering. The drought has helped put global IPOs on pace to
raise about $113 billion in 2012, the smallest yearly amount
since 2009, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Natalie Cox, a spokeswoman for EQT Corp., declined to
comment on the IPO, citing Securities and Exchange Commission
rules barring companies from making statements prior to
offerings.  Shale Boom  EQT Corp. accounted for 65 percent of total gas
transmission and gathering volumes at EQT Midstream in the three
months through March 31, according to a regulatory filing. EQT
Midstream’s growth will partly depend on its ability to win
additional contracts with other gas producers, the filing shows.  EQT Midstream will operate in the Marcellus Shale region in
 Pennsylvania  and  West Virginia , where EQT Corp. is one of the
biggest gas producers, according to the filing. Dry gas
production in the Northeast will almost double by 2035 compared
with 2009, primarily because of resources in the Marcellus
Shale, the filing shows, citing the U.S. Energy Information
Administration.  Unconventional Extraction  EQT Corp. will own about 65 percent of the assets operator
after the IPO. EQT Midstream mostly handles gas produced through
hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, a drilling technique that has
improved production in the Marcellus Shale.  Annual extraction from unconventional resources may rise to
1.6 trillion cubic meters in 2035 to account for 32 percent of
all gas production, up from 14 percent this year, the
 International Energy Agency  said in a  report  released last
month. That figure will only be reached if companies and
regulators are transparent, monitor environmental impacts and
take the concerns of local communities seriously, according to
the report.  Fracking, the practice of pumping water, sand and chemicals
into wells to extract gas from hard-to-exploit shale rock,
helped the U.S. overtake  Russia  as the world’s biggest producer
of the fuel. Opposition to the technique has slowed the
development of gas in  Europe , creating export opportunities for
U.S. producers hurt by low prices and a glut of gas at home.  Europe’s Reaction  Companies temporarily suspended the process in the U.K.
after it was linked to a series of earthquakes. Bulgaria and
 France  outlawed it over environmental concerns.  Last week, President  Barack Obama ’s administration gave
U.S. gas producers more time to comment on draft standards for
disclosing chemicals used in hydraulic fracturing. The draft
rules, introduced on May 4, would require companies exploring
for natural gas to disclose the chemicals used in the fracking
process and adhere to well design.  While EQT Midstream, as a conduit for gas rather than a
producer, may be indirectly exposed to the downsides of
fracking, any large-scale moratorium on the process in
Pennsylvania would diminish volume and cash flow, Morningstar’s
Stevens said.  Net IPO proceeds to EQT Midstream, estimated at about $230
million, will be used to pay a cash distribution to the parent,
cover some  capital spending  planned in the next two years, and
replenish working cash.  EQT Midstream will be listed on the  New York  Stock Exchange
under the symbol EQM. Citigroup Inc. and Barclays Plc are
leading the offering. The midstream operator would be valued at
$707.7 million at the midpoint of the IPO price range.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  