-- Merkel Hardens Resistance to Euro-Area Debt Sharing
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-06-25T15:31:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/merkel-rejects-joint-euro-bonds-bills-with-all-eyes-on-germany.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  hardened
her resistance to euro-area debt sharing to resolve the region’s
financial crisis, setting Germany on a collision course with its
allies at a summit of European leaders this week.  Merkel, speaking to a conference in Berlin today as Spain
announced it would formally seek aid for its banks, dismissed
“euro bonds, euro bills and European  deposit insurance  with
joint liability and much more” as “economically wrong and
counterproductive,” saying that they ran against the German
constitution.  “It’s not a bold prediction to say that in Brussels most
eyes -- all eyes -- will be on Germany yet again,” Merkel said.
“I say quite openly: when I think of the summit on Thursday I’m
concerned that once again the discussion will be far too much
about all kinds of ideas for joint liability and far too little
about improved oversight and structural measures.”  The German chancellor will face an increasingly united bloc
of euro-area nations at the summit as fellow leaders in France,
Italy and Spain plus investors such as  George Soros  press her
for more ambitious policies to help bring down borrowing costs
across the 17-nation euro region. Soros urged Merkel to agree to
a fund to buy Italian and Spanish bonds in return for those
governments implementing budget cuts, or risk a “fiasco.”  ‘Wrong Direction’  “Merkel has emerged as a strong leader,” the billionaire
investor said in an interview in  London . “Unfortunately, she
has been leading  Europe  in the wrong direction.”  The euro and stocks fell today, with the  Stoxx Europe 600
Index (SXXP)  retreating 1.4 percent to 243.04 as of 5:21 p.m. in
Berlin. The euro dropped 0.7 percent to $1.2483.  Merkel’s comments are also a rebuff to global partners from
the U.S. to India and China, whose leaders have been pressing
 Germany  to do more to stem the crisis. At the Group of 20 summit
in  Mexico  last week, Merkel was among the euro-area leaders who
pledged to “take all necessary measures to safeguard the
integrity and stability” of the joint currency.  “Merkel is following a very careful strategy,” Eric Wand,
a fixed-income strategist at Lloyds Banking Group Plc in London,
said in a note today. First was the fiscal pact, which most EU
countries are due to ratify in July, and then comes “extending
Brussels control” over national budgets, he said.  For Merkel, that’s a building block toward “eventually
accepting a debt-sharing solution,” he said. “Of course, more
control to Brussels means some loss of sovereignty which, for
now, the French seem unwilling to accept.”  Rome Talks  At a June 22 four-way summit meeting in Rome, Merkel faced
a  united front  among her three interlocutors -- Italian Prime
Minister  Mario Monti , French President  Francois Hollande  and
Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  -- on making the euro
region’s rescue funds more flexible. She dismissed a Monti plan
last week to use the funds -- the temporary European Financial
Stability Facility or the permanent European Stability Mechanism
-- to buy bonds, and spelled out her opposition to directly
recapitalizing banks.  “There must not be an imbalance between liability and
control,” she said today. “For instance, we would do a
European deposit insurance immediately if it doesn’t lead to
common liability but to improved oversight possibilities and
standards.”  As she prepares to meet again with Hollande in Paris on
June 27, on the eve of the EU summit, Merkel said that European
leaders have to get rid of the “deficiencies” that developed
when the economic and currency union was founded 20 years ago.  “Liability and control have to be in balance,” she said.
“So the goal has to be a political union in which the standard
is whatever is the best, not mediocrity.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net 
Patrick Donahue in  Rome  at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  