-- Merkin, N.Y. Reach $410 Million Madoff Lawsuit Settlement
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-06-25T20:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/merkin-n-y-reach-410-million-madoff-lawsuit-settlement.html
New York  settled a lawsuit for
$410 million with J. Ezra Merkin over claims that Merkin funds
secretly placed client money with Bernard L. Madoff.  The agreement provides $405 million to compensate investors
and $5 million for the state, according to a statement yesterday
by the office of New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman. In
the case, filed in 2009 by Schneiderman’s predecessor,  Andrew Cuomo , the state claimed Merkin steered assets to Madoff and
concealed Madoff’s role.  “Many  New Yorkers  entrusted their investments to Mr.
Merkin, who then steered the money to Madoff while receiving
millions of dollars in management and incentive fees,”
Schneiderman said in the statement. “By holding Mr. Merkin
accountable, this settlement will help bring justice for the
people and institutions that lost millions of dollars.”  The state claimed in its complaint that Merkin betrayed
hundreds of investors, including charities, that entrusted him
with their savings by “recklessly” feeding their funds to
Madoff’s Ponzi scheme while falsely claiming he actively managed
their funds.  Madoff, who pleaded guilty to running an investment fraud
that authorities say swindled investors of about $17 billion, is
serving a 150-year prison sentence.  Four Funds  Merkin controlled four funds that invested more than
$2 billion with Madoff on behalf of investors, according to
Schneiderman. As a result of Madoff’s scheme, the investors in
the funds -- Ariel Fund Ltd., Gabriel Capital LP, Ascot Fund
Ltd. and Ascot Partners LP -- lost in excess of $1.2 billion,
the office said. More than 10 percent of the assets obtained by
Merkin belonged to charities and nonprofit organizations,
Schneiderman said.  Andrew Levander, an attorney for Merkin, said in a
statement that his client “is pleased to have achieved a
resolution that is fair to his investors.”  “With this settlement,  Ezra Merkin  has made an enormous
personal commitment to addressing his investors’ losses from
Madoff’s unthinkable fraud,” Levander said.  Under the agreement, Merkin will pay $405 million to
investors over a three-year period. Depending on the size of
their losses, eligible investors will be entitled to more
40 percent of their cash losses, Schneiderman said.  Fund Receiver  Bart M. Schwartz, the receiver for Gabriel Capital and
Ariel Fund, said in a statement that the settlement, which also
resolves his claims against Merkin, will help bring investors in
the funds closer to being made whole. Excluding the Merkin
settlement, Schwartz has already distributed, or has moved for
the authority to distribute, more than $500 million to investors
in the Ariel and Gabriel funds.  The settlement provides for distributions to eligible
investors in the Gabriel and Ariel funds, who elect to
participate, of 42.5 percent of their net Madoff losses up to
losses of $5 million, according to Schwartz’s statement. There
is a provision for additional recovery for investors whose net
Madoff losses exceed $5 million. Distributions to Ascot Fund
investors will be made in the same proportions, according to
Schwartz.  The case is People of the State of New York v. Merkin,
450879-2009, New York State Supreme Court, New York County
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  