-- Terrorism Conspirator Padilla Loses Top U.S. Court Appeal
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-06-25T14:43:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/terrorism-conspirator-padilla-loses-top-u-s-court-appeal.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  rejected an
appeal by Jose Padilla, an American citizen held in military
custody as an “enemy combatant” for three years before being
convicted of terrorism conspiracy in a civilian court.  The high court, without comment, refused to hear arguments
by Padilla and two co-defendants that they were wrongly
convicted of conspiring to send money, recruits and equipment to
overseas terrorist groups. Padilla is serving a 17-year, four-
month prison sentence, although an appeals court ruled the term
was too short and that he must be resentenced.  The three men “formed a support cell linked to radical
Islamists worldwide” who they knew “used violence in their
efforts to establish Islamic states,” Obama administration
lawyers said in court papers urging the justices to deny review.  Padilla’s 2007 conviction by a federal court jury in Miami
was a major boost for then-President  George W. Bush ’s war on
terrorism. Government lawyers said the verdict showed that the
civilian criminal justice system could handle some terrorism
cases.  Still, President  Barack Obama ’s administration is using a
military court to try Khalid Sheikh Mohammed and four other men
on charges of planning the Sept. 11 terror attacks. The
president withdrew an attempt to prosecute the cases in federal
court following strong congressional opposition.  On June 11, the Supreme Court turned down Padilla’s effort
to sue former Defense Secretary  Donald Rumsfeld  over torture he
said he suffered while in military custody. The lawsuit said
Padilla was shackled for hours in “excruciating stress
positions,” injected with what he was told were truth serums
and subjected to banging noises, noxious odors and extreme
temperature variations to keep him from sleeping.  ‘Dirty Bomb’  Padilla, 41, was arrested in 2002 after arriving in  Chicago 
on a flight from  Pakistan . He was initially suspected of
plotting to explode a radioactive “dirty bomb,” and Bush
ordered him held as an enemy combatant in military custody,
where he remained for the next 3 1/2 years.  Padilla was charged in criminal court in 2005 and
transferred to civilian custody as the government sought to
avoid a Supreme Court hearing on his challenge to his detention.
The dirty-bomb allegation wasn’t included in the charges.  Prosecutors said Padilla attended an al-Qaeda training camp
in  Afghanistan . The central piece of evidence against him was
what prosecutors described as a “mujahedeen data form” bearing
his fingerprints that they said he filled out to attend the
training facility.  Florida Mosque  Co-defendant Kifah Wael Jayyousi was in contact with al-
Qaeda and raised funds for Islamic militants, while Adham Amin
Hassoun, a preacher at a South Florida mosque attended by
Padilla, recruited people to fight overseas, prosecutors said.  All three were convicted of conspiring to commit murder in
a foreign country, conspiring to provide support to terrorist
groups and providing such support. Jayyousi was sentenced to 15
years and eight months in prison, while Hassoun received a 12-
year, eight-month term.  The Atlanta-based 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld
the convictions in September, though it ordered a new sentencing
for Padilla.  In their appeals to the Supreme Court, Padilla and the
other two men said prosecutors shouldn’t have been allowed to
present testimony from FBI agent John Kavanaugh. After examining
transcripts and summaries of thousands of telephone calls
recorded by the government, Kavanaugh told the jury the three
men used code words to discuss terrorism-related matters.  ‘Still Ready’  “Agent Kavanaugh testified that when Mr. Padilla said on
the telephone ‘I am still ready,’ he meant he was ready for
jihad,” or holy war, Padilla’s appeal said. Kavanaugh
“improperly testified about what Mr. Padilla was thinking”
although his testimony was “not based on any familiarity with
him,” the appeal said.  Justice Department lawyers said Kavanaugh’s testimony
helped the jury understand the defendants’ conversations, and
linked “specific calls to checks, wire transfers, and other
discrete acts of material support that put the code words into
context.”  The cases are Jayyousi v. U.S., 11-1194; Hassoun v. U.S.,
11-1198, and Padilla v. U.S., 11-9672.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  