-- Terror Suspect Ferhani Weighing Plea Deal, His Lawyer Says
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-09-18T21:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/terror-suspect-denied-bid-to-dismiss-n-y-bomb-plot-case-1-.html
Ahmed Ferhani, one of two men from
Queens, New York, accused last year of plotting to attack
synagogues, is considering a plea bargain after evidence came
forward about an undercover agent involved in his case, his
attorney said.  An offer from Manhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance Jr.
would give Ferhani, a native of  Algeria , less jail time than the
maximum sentence he could face in exchange for a guilty plea,
the lawyer, Lamis Deek, said today outside court. Separately,
Vance’s office has given new evidence about an undercover agent
known as “UC 242” who worked on the case, which raises concern
about whether Ferhani was entrapped, Deek said.  Deek declined to give further details about the plea deal.
Erin Duggan, a spokeswoman for Vance’s office, declined to
comment.  “The offer of a sentence is substantially less than the
maximum he’d be exposed to,” Deek said. She said that while the
offer seeks to have him plead guilty to terrorism charges, she
believes the worst case against him is more minor.  “At worst, this case is one of a gun crime,” Deek said.
“And even in that context, we would say he was entrapped.”  Ferhani was arrested along with Mohamed Mamdouh, a Moroccan
immigrant, in May 2011 and accused of conspiring to bomb
synagogues and churches in  Manhattan . The men were seized after
buying two Browning semi-automatic pistols, a Smith & Wesson
revolver, ammunition and an inert grenade. They face a maximum
of 25 years in prison on charges of conspiracy and weapons
offenses as crimes of terrorism and hate.  Undercover Operation  The arrests followed an eight-month undercover operation by
Vance and the New York City police. Both men pleaded not guilty.  Ferhani and Mamdouh said on April 12 they wanted to blow up
a synagogue and discussed how to do it without being caught,
according to their indictment. Ferhani also asked an undercover
detective if he could contact someone about how to make a bomb,
said they should dress as Jewish worshippers, and wanted to blow
up 10 synagogues at once, prosecutors said in the indictment.  A motion to exclude some evidence from Ferhani’s case,
scheduled for today before  New York  State Supreme Court Justice
Michael Obus, was postponed until Oct. 16.  Deek also said after today’s hearing that, after a year and
a half of requesting information from Vance’s office that could
potentially help her client, she received a letter two weeks ago
that contained information about the undercover agent -- “UC
242,” who worked for the New York Police Department’s
intelligence division on the case.  FBI Division  According to the Aug. 31 letter from Vance’s office to
Deek, the Joint Terrorism Task Force, a division of the FBI,
decided not to get involved in Ferhani’s case because it was
approached “well before much of the incriminating evidence”
against Ferhani and Mamdouh was collected.  After reports in media including the  Huffington Post  saying
the JTTF questioned the credibility of UC 242, Vance’s office
made an investigation and found no information that would
exculpate Ferhani or “cast doubt upon the credibility or
truthfulness of UC 242,” the letter said.  Any concerns about UC 242 relate to a separate 2009
investigation of a group of Turkish men “who were interested in
sending money to Hamas,” that he also took part in, according
to the letter. UC 242 had been first to raise the subject of
Hamas in a meeting with the men, drawing reported criticism from
the JTTF, according to the letter.  Money Collection  However, a separate member of the group who was not an
undercover agent first “encouraged the others to take up a
collection of money to send to Gaza to help the Palestinians buy
guns,” two days earlier, when the money was donated, the letter
said. One of the men ran off with the money collected and no
arrests or charges came of the investigation.  Deek said UC 242 had “incited conversations” about
sending money to Hamas and that Vance’s office is attempting to
“circumvent the constitutional rights of defendants -- the
right to conduct discovery; confront witnesses against them.”  The  Federal Bureau of Investigation  told Vance’s office in
a June 12 letter that after searches of its databases in
response to repeat requests from Vance’s office, it doesn’t
possess any information “that expresses credibility concerns”
about the agent.  The FBI decided not to take part in a separate terrorism-
related investigation by Vance’s office -- that of Jose Pimentel
-- because of concern of entrapment linked to a police
informant, a person familiar with that case told  Bloomberg News 
at the time of Pimentel’s arrest. Pimentel has been charged with
plotting to bomb government offices and police vehicles in
Manhattan.  The case is New York v. Ferhani, 2461/2011, New York State
Supreme Court, New York County (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York
at   tkary@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 