-- Tesla CEO Sees Romney Win as ‘Minor Impact’ on Electric Cars
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n   a n d   S h i v a u n e   F i e l d
-- 2012-06-25T20:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/tesla-s-musk-sees-romney-win-as-minor-impact-on-electric-cars.html
Elon Musk,  Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA)  chief
executive officer, said a victory by Republican  Mitt Romney  in
this year’s U.S. presidential election would have only a “minor
impact” on the nation’s electric-car market.  Tesla delivered its first Model S sedans to retail
customers on June 22 at a ceremony at the company’s Fremont,
California, plant marking the start of production. Tesla opened
the factory with a low-interest loan obtained in 2009 under a
federal program Romney often criticizes in campaign speeches.  “Romney would have a minor impact,” Musk told reporters
in Fremont. “There’s such momentum behind electric vehicles,
and Model S is going to ensure that that happens.”  Musk wants to turn Palo Alto, California-based Tesla into
the first profitable, high-volume seller of cars powered solely
by batteries. Model S prices range from $57,400 to $105,400,
before a $7,500 federal tax credit. Tesla is targeting Model S
deliveries of at least 5,000 this year and 20,000 in 2013.  Romney has cited companies such as Tesla and Fisker
Automotive Inc., which also got a federal loan to develop its
plug-in Karma luxury sedan, and products such as General Motors
Co.’s Volt plug-in car as examples of poor policy decisions by
President  Barack Obama ’s administration.  In a March 19 speech at the  University of Chicago , Romney
called both Tesla and Fisker examples of “crony capitalism.’  Musk said he’s not sure that Romney is “really against”
electric vehicles, while the Republican candidate “may not be
as for them as, say, President Obama is.”  Tesla fell 2 percent to $33.11 at the close in  New York .
The  shares  have gained 16 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net ;
Shivaune Field in Los Angeles at 
 sfield99@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  