-- EU Trade Talks Progress May Trigger Vietnam Investment Revival
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-06-25T23:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/eu-trade-talks-progress-may-trigger-vietnam-investment-revival.html
Progress in free-trade talks between
the European Union and  Vietnam  may trigger a resurgence of
investment in the Southeast Asian nation from companies within
the 27-nation bloc, the EU’s top representative in Vietnam said.  Early headway in negotiations would boost interest in
Vietnam even before an accord is signed, Ambassador Franz
Jessen, head of the European Union delegation to Vietnam, said
in an interview. Vietnam’s Minister of Industry and Trade Vu Huy Hoang is scheduled to meet EU Trade Commissioner Karel De Gucht
in Brussels today to announce the negotiations, he said.  Renewed interest from EU companies may help slow a
declining trend in foreign direct investment into Vietnam
stretching back to 2008. Pledged FDI fell 26 percent in 2011
from a year earlier and dropped 32 percent in the first five
months of 2012, according to the Foreign Investment Agency, amid
a global economic slowdown and as government measures to tackle
inflation shackled growth. Vietnam’s  economy  expanded by 4
percent in the first quarter, the slowest pace since 2009.  “My impression is that the Vietnamese authorities are very
concerned about the decrease in foreign direct investment,”
Jessen said last week. The FTA can be used to reverse that
trend, he said, “because if proceedings are seen as progressing
quite rapidly, companies will adjust now.”  The trade commissioner is “keen” to reach a final
agreement with Vietnam by October 2014, Jessen said.  Piaggio, Nokia  The EU was the fourth-biggest investor in Vietnam in 2011,
pledging $1.77 billion, or more than 12 percent of the nation’s
total committed FDI for the year, according to the delegation’s
 website . Italian scooter manufacturer  Piaggio & C. SpA (PIA) , and
Finnish mobile-phone company  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  are among European
companies that are investing in production facilities in the
Southeast Asian country.  Investment conditions in Vietnam will be included in the
FTA negotiations, Jessen said, with transparency in the business
environment a factor that may feature in companies’ decisions.  “European companies are obliged to operate under very
strict guidance on corruption and adhere to very stringent
norms, and what I have been saying here is that if we want to
stimulate investment into Vietnam, one of the ways to do it is
to ensure the business environment is transparent and clear,”
Jessen said.  In addition to “standard” free-trade issues such as
tariff reductions, trade facilitation and customs procedures
will be among “more interesting” areas for discussion during
the negotiations with Vietnam, Jessen said. Protection of
intellectual property rights is also a “big issue”.  The EU plans to open  business centers  in Hanoi and Ho Chi
Minh City this year or early in 2013 to support small and
medium-sized companies, Jessen said. Similar centers are planned
for  Indonesia ,  Malaysia  and the  Philippines , he said.  Vietnam is the third member of the  Association of Southeast
Asian Nations  to enter free-trade talks with the EU, following
the opening of discussions with Singapore and Malaysia. It’s
also negotiating a Trans-Pacific Partnership trade agreement
with eight other nations including the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nick Heath in Hanoi at 
 nheath2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tony Jordan at 
 tjordan3@bloomberg.net  