-- EU Wheat Yields Lowered by Forecasting Unit on Spain Dryness
-- B y   W h i t n e y   M c F e r r o n
-- 2012-06-25T14:17:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/eu-wheat-yields-lowered-by-forecasting-unit-on-spain-dryness-1-.html
European Union wheat yields this
year will be 0.4 percent smaller than forecast a month ago
because of dry weather in  Spain , the bloc’s agricultural
forecasting unit said.  Average wheat yields, including soft wheat and durum, are
predicted at 5.32 metric tons a hectare (2.47 acres), down from
last month’s projection at 5.34 tons, the EU’s Monitoring
Agricultural Resources said in a  report  on its website today.
Last year’s average was 5.35 tons, it said.  MARS slashed its outlook for  Spain’s  wheat yields to 2.52
tons per hectare, down 14 percent from its forecast in May. Most
regions of the Iberian Peninsula received no rain during the
first half of June. Spain’s yields of durum wheat, used to make
pasta, may drop to 1.2 tons per hectare, compared with 2.48 tons
a year earlier, according to the report.  “The lack of rainfall has been a constant in most of the
regions from the second half of May to mid-June,” MARS wrote.
“Winter cereals, currently between grain filling and maturity,
suffered from these water constraints, resulting in a reduction
of their potential yield.”  The outlook for the harvest in  France , the EU’s biggest
wheat producer, is “quite positive” after crops received
adequate rainfall in the past month while temperatures were only
about 1 to 2 degrees Celsius (1.8 to 3.6 degrees Fahrenheit)
warmer than normal, MARS said. German crop conditions were seen
as “average,” with some areas of the north and east
experiencing low soil moisture, according to the report.  Corn Yields  MARS raised its estimate for corn yields in the EU to 7.38
tons per hectare, compared with 7.02 tons estimated last month,
based on favorable conditions from France to  Romania . Yields
would still be below last year’s average of 7.6 tons.  The outlook for rapeseed was unchanged at 2.87 tons a
hectare, MARS said. Spring barley yields were cut to 4.04 tons,
compared with 4.07 tons estimated last month, while the forecast
for winter crops was raised to 5.06 tons from 5.01 tons
projected in May. EU sugar-beet productivity will be 69.67 tons
a hectare, up from the previous estimate of 69.59 tons a
hectare.  In Ukraine, hot, dry weather has left soil moisture
“unusually low” in central and eastern regions, threatening to
reduce winter crop yields, MARS said. Spring corn crops still
“started promisingly with high yield expectations,” it said.  Winter crops in areas of southern Russia face “significant
yield losses” because of “extreme” warm and dry weather since
April 1, MARS said. Rain in late May and June eased some
dryness, while eastern areas mostly missed out, it said.  “Most probably this precipitation arrived too late for
winter crops to avoid the significant yield losses,” MARS
wrote. “Nevertheless the further decrease of yield potential
was stopped and additionally it will be beneficial for spring
crops.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney McFerron in London at 
 wmcferron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  