-- Euro Falls Versus Yen After Spanish, Italian Auctions
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-06-26T21:21:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/euro-trades-near-2-week-low-before-eu-summit-this-week.html
The euro fell to the lowest level in
more than a week against the yen as Spanish and Italian
borrowing costs rose amid concern a European Union summit this
week will fail to solve the sovereign-debt crisis.  The 17-nation currency slid earlier against the dollar,
reaching its lowest level since June 8, after German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  told German lawmakers she expects no shared debt
liability in her lifetime. The greenback weakened against the
yen after a report showed that U.S.  consumer confidence  fell for
a fourth month in June, reaching a five-month low.  Australia ’s
dollar strengthened as traders pared bets on an interest-rate
cut.  “Investors are under the impression that nothing
meaningful enough will be announced,” Charles St-Arnaud, a
foreign-exchange strategist at Nomura Holdings Inc. in  New York .
“Even if there’s something big that’s supposed to be announced,
there’s still a lot of uncertainty as to how quickly any
announcement could be implemented.”  The euro declined 0.3 percent to 99.32 yen at 5 p.m. New
York time after touching 98.75 yen, the lowest level since June
18. It dropped 1.5 percent yesterday, the biggest drop since May
30. The shared currency was down 0.1 percent at $1.2491 after
touching $1.2442, the weakest level since June 8. The dollar
fell 0.2 percent to 79.52 yen.  The euro may be supported by its June 1 low of $1.2288,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg based on technical
indicators. Support refers to an area where buy orders may be
clustered. The stronger the support, the more selling is needed
to break through it.  ‘Continued Paralysis’  Europe ’s common currency is down from this year’s high of
$1.3487 on Feb. 24, and has fallen 3.6 percent against the
dollar this year as the financial turmoil in the region
deepened. The yen has declined 3.2 percent.  “The dip down in the euro today is on the back of
continued paralysis in Europe struggling to find a common
message,” Douglas Borthwick, managing director at Faros Trading
LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone interview.
“The EU is losing credibility the more that finance ministers
and leaders of countries talk.”  Italy  sold 2.99 billion euros of zero-coupon notes due in
May 2014 at a yield of 4.71 percent, more than the 4.04 percent
paid on May 28.  Spain  auctioned 3.08 billion euros of bills,
with three-month securities yielding 2.36 percent, compared with
0.85 percent at the previous auction.  ‘Some Disappointment’  Spain formally requested a bailout for its banks yesterday,
and Cyprus also sought a financial lifeline from the euro area’s
firewall funds, becoming the fourth and fifth of the currency
union’s 17 member states to require external aid.  Moody’s Investors Service downgraded 28 Spanish banks
yesterday, citing the country’s sovereign debt and rising real
estate losses.  “What we’re seeing out of Italy and Spain is a key
catalyst,”  Mary Nicola , a currency strategist at BNP Paribas SA
in New York, said in a telephone interview. “There could be
some disappointment out of the EU summit.”  The two-day EU summit in Brussels starting June 28 is the
first meeting of European leaders since Greek parliamentary
elections on June 17 that saw victories for pro-bailout parties.
France and Italy are urging  Germany  to take decisive action to
end the debt crisis, now in its third year.  The  difference  in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and
other large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with
those on a gain was 141,066 contracts on June 19, versus a
record of 214,418 the week ended June 5, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission showed.  ‘Investor Confidence’  The euro has depreciated 2.7 percent this year, making it
the worst performer among 10 developed-market currencies tracked
by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes. The dollar has risen
1.4 percent and the yen has fallen 2.3 percent.  “The euro weakness is a reflection of the ongoing loss of
investor confidence in European policy makers to deal with the
crisis effectively,” said  Lee Hardman , a foreign-exchange
strategist at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in  London . “It
still appears likely that conditions will have to get a lot
worse before they prompt a more decisive policy response.”  The dollar fell against the yen after a U.S. report showed
that the confidence index decreased to 62 from a revised 64.4 in
the prior month. The median forecasts of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News called for a reading of 63.  ‘Tipping Point’  If the dollar rallies above this month’s highs against
major peers after failing to breach 50 percent Fibonacci
retracement levels, it will signal a “tipping point” for a
dollar rally in the coming months,  George Davis , chief technical
analyst for fixed-income and currency strategy at Royal Bank of
Canada, said in a telephone interview. This could result in a
renewed period of prolonged  risk aversion , Davis said.  The euro has had cumulative net inflows over the past five
days twice as strong as the weekly average over the past year,
according to Bank of New York Mellon client flow data. The
Canadian dollar has seen inflow more than three times as strong
as average, according to the largest custodial bank with over
$26 trillion under administration. The yen and dollar have had
outflows at least twice as strong as average in the past week.  The Australian dollar rebounded after touching its weakest
level in more than a week yesterday.  Reserve Bank  of Australia
policy makers meet next week, and are forecast to keep the key
rate unchanged, according to a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Interest-rate swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg show traders
see a better than 50 percent chance policy makers will keep the
benchmark rate unchanged next week. That’s up from a 30 percent
probability seen on June 19.  The currency rose 0.5 percent to $1.0064 after sinking to
99.69 U.S. cents yesterday, the lowest since June 14.  New
Zealand ’s dollar rose versus most major counterparts, increasing
0.5 percent to 79.11 U.S. cents.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  