-- Euro to Hit $1.20 as Crisis Worsens, State Street Says
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   P u r v i s
-- 2012-06-25T04:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/euro-to-hit-1-20-as-crisis-worsens-state-street-says.html
The euro will probably drop to $1.20
by year-end as Europe’s debt crisis worsens before it improves,
according to  State Street Corp. (STT) , which oversees $16.9 trillion
in custody assets.  Investors should sell the 17-nation euro and buy the  U.S.
dollar , said Collin Crownover, head of currency management at
 State Street Global Advisors . The greenback will strengthen
because the prospect of further asset purchases by the  Federal
Reserve  is less likely than market pricing indicates, he said.  The euro has fallen more than 21 percent from its 2008 peak
as the bloc’s fiscal crisis pushed economies into recession,
driving up borrowing costs for the most heavily indebted nations
and forcing Greece, Ireland, Portugal and Spain to seek
bailouts. A mix of rescue funds and austerity programs has yet
to halt financial-market contagion, prompting billionaire
investor  George Soros  to warn Europe that a failure by leaders
at a summit this week to produce drastic measures could spell
the demise of the currency.  “You need events to get bad enough that you can sell the
population on the necessity of a bigger bang solution to the
euro-zone crisis,” Crownover said today in an interview in
Sydney. “We’re advising our investors to reduce their currency
exposure to the euro.”  The euro traded at $1.2542 as of 1:07 p.m. in Tokyo, 3.2
percent below its level at the end of 2011.  Dollar Cheap  The outlook for the  U.S. economy  is more favorable,
according to Crownover, and the dollar is “reasonably cheap.”  “You probably don’t want to get too carried away with the
doom and gloom scenarios of a double-dip recession,” said
Crownover, who is based in  Boston . “It could happen, but it
doesn’t seem like we’re there yet.”  The U.S. central bank has engaged in two rounds of so-
called quantitative easing, buying $2.3 trillion of assets in a
bid to lower borrowing costs and stimulate the economy. Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will probably refrain from implementing
a third wave of purchases unless the situation deteriorates,
Crownover said.  Policy makers “don’t have that many bullets left in the
arsenal,” he said. “They want to keep that QE3 powder dry,”
he said.  Latin American nations may also benefit from the relative
strength of the U.S. economy, with the Mexican and Colombian
pesos two currencies that Crownover favors.  China Slowdown  A slowdown in growth in  China , the world’s largest consumer
of raw materials, would help buoy the U.S. currency against
those of commodity producing nations such as Australia,  New
Zealand  and Canada, he said.  “We’re slightly short the commodity currency complex,” he
said. A short position is a bet that the price of a currency or
asset will decline.  While he doesn’t foresee a so-called “hard landing” for
China, Crownover does expect a steeper deceleration than the
consensus view. He predicts China’s annual growth rate will slow
to around 6 percent to 7 percent, even with government stimulus
measures.  China’s economy  will slow to 8.1 percent growth this year
from 9.2 percent in 2011, according to a Bloomberg News survey
of 28 economists, with the most recent forecasts given greater
weighting.  Crownover forecasts the Australian dollar will fall to
around 93 to 95 U.S. cents by year-end from its current level of
$1.0031.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Purvis in Sydney at 
 bpurvis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  