-- European Stock Fall Before Summit As Soros Warns on Euro
-- B y   S a r a h   J o n e s
-- 2012-06-25T16:11:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/european-stock-futures-are-little-changed-before-meeting.html
European stocks  fell for a third day
on concern that a summit of the region’s leaders this week will
not lead to decisive measures to contain its debt crisis as
Germany’s  Angela Merkel  hardened her resistance to debt sharing.  Unicredit SpA (UCG)  and  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA led a selloff in banks,
both falling at least 5 percent.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  lost 11 percent amid
speculation Samsung Electronics Co.’s earnings may miss some
analyst estimates.  Shire Plc (SHP)  slumped 11 percent after regulators
approved a generic version of its second-biggest selling drug.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index (SXXP)  retreated 1.5 percent to 242.82
at the close of trade, extending its decline in the last three
days to 2.7 percent and erasing the gauge’s advance for the
year. The volume of shares changing hands in companies listed on
the gauge was 4.6 percent lower today than the average of the
last 30 days, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “European leaders have to give a convincing message to the
people that they’re still in control of the process, but the
reality is they’re increasingly running out of options short of
a more closely integrated fiscal union,”  Peter Dixon , global
equities economist at Commerzbank AG, said in a Bloomberg
Television interview in London. “So long as the Germans are
opposed, that’s not going to happen. Markets will come out of it
slightly disappointed.”  The Stoxx 600 fell in the final two days of last week after
German business confidence slid to a two-year low, adding to
concern that the euro area’s sovereign-debt crisis is derailing
growth. The measure has fallen 11 percent from its 2012 high on
March 16 and 0.7 percent this year.  Merkel Opposition  Chancellor Merkel  dismissed the possibility of debt sharing
to resolve the area’s financial crisis, even as  Spain  announced
it would formally seek aid for its ailing banks.  Merkel said today at a conference in Berlin that “euro
bonds, euro bills and European  deposit insurance  with joint
liability and much more” would be “economically wrong and
counterproductive.” They ran against the German constitution,
she said.  Merkel will face an increasingly united bloc of euro-area
nations at the summit demanding more ambitious policies to fight
the crisis and preserve the euro. Leaders will attend pre-summit
meetings as they work to narrow differences before the June 28-
29 gathering in Brussels.  Soros Call  Billionaire investor  George Soros  called on  Europe  to start
a fund to buy Italian and Spanish bonds, saying policy makers
should create a European Fiscal Authority to purchase the debt
in return for the countries implementing achievable budget cuts.  France and Italy are also urging Germany to take decisive
action to end the 2 1/2-year-old debt crisis after Spain’s 10-
year bond yields jumped to more than 7 percent last week, a
level that economists consider unsustainable.  “There is a disagreement on the fiscal side,” Soros, 81,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “Unless that is
resolved in the next three days, then I am afraid the summit
could turn out to be a fiasco. That could actually be fatal.”  The  Bank for International Settlements  said in its annual
report released yesterday that central banks are facing the
limit of their ability to boost economic growth.  Central banks are being “cornered into prolonging monetary
stimulus,” the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS said. “Both
conventionally and unconventionally, accommodative monetary
policies are palliatives and have their limits.”  National benchmark indexes declined in all 18 markets in
western Europe today. France’s CAC 40 fell 2.2 percent, the
U.K.’s FTSE 100 slid 1.1 percent and Germany’s DAX lost 2.1
percent. Greece’s ASE Index tumbled 6.8 percent.  Banks Decline  A gauge of European lenders fell 3 percent, the biggest
decline among 19 industry groups on the Stoxx 600.  Unicredit, Italy’s largest lender, lost 8.4 percent to 2.46
euros and  Intesa Sanpaolo SpA (ISP)  fell 6.5 percent to 97 euro cents
as analysts at Exane BNP Paribas cut their 2013 earnings per
share estimate for Italian banks by an average of 13 percent.  BNP Paribas, France’s largest bank, retreated 5.5 percent
to 27.78 euros and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the biggest lender in
Germany, slid 4.1 percent to 27.37 euros.  National Bank of Greece SA  slid 14 percent to 1.27 euros.
Alpha Bank AE dropped 18 percent to 1.02 euros and EFG Eurobank
Ergasias SA tumbled 16 percent to 58 euro cents.  Greek Leader  Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras was discharged from
hospital today after eye surgery, with doctors ordering bedrest
for a week, throwing planning for the new Greek government into
disarray.  Samaras won’t attend his first EU summit as premier where
leaders were due to grill him on his coalition government’s bid
to renegotiate the terms of a 130 billion-euro ($163 billion)
rescue package. Finance Minister-designate Vassilios Rapanos was
unexpectedly hospitalized on June 22.  Fitch Ratings Co. downgraded Cyprus to below investment
grade, cutting it to BB+ from BBB- as the country negotiates
international aid for its banks with both the European Union and
Russia.  Nokia paced a retreat in technology companies, falling 11
percent to 1.71 euros, as Samsung Electronics, the world’s
biggest maker of computer memory chips and flat screens, fell to
a four-month low in Seoul.  Nokia also fell after the Sunday Times newspaper reported
that Research In Motion Ltd. is considering selling its handset-
manufacturing unit or a stake in the whole company to a larger
technology firm, such as Microsoft Corp., without saying where
it got the information.  Microsoft had this month been speculated to be a possible
acquirer of Nokia.  Shire Tumbles  Shire sank 11 percent to 1,743 pence, the biggest drop
since Oct. 2008, after the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration 
approved a generic version of  its hyperactivity medicine
Adderall made by Actavis Group Hf. Analysts led by Brian Bourdot
at Barclays Plc cut their 2013 profit forecast for the Dublin-
based company by 14 percent.  Storebrand ASA (STB)  declined 9.5 percent to 19.59 kroner after
Norway’s second-largest publicly traded insurer lowered the
reported solvency ratio at its life insurance unit to 146
percent from 163 percent. Solvency ratio is a measure of a
company’s capacity to absorb losses.  Anheuser-Busch InBev NV (ABI)  climbed 2 percent to 56.75 euros.
The world’s biggest brewer was said to be close to buying the
remainder of Mexico’s Grupo Modelo SAB for more than $12
billion, according to a person with knowledge of the matter.  The purchase may be announced as soon as this week, said
the person, who asked not to be identified as the discussions
are confidential.  InBev said it is in talks with Modelo that may or may not
lead to a transaction and that any speculation is premature.  SABMiller Plc (SAB)  slid 1.7 percent to 2,462.5 pence after
 Liberum Capital  downgraded the shares to sell, saying the
company’s premium to its peers may contract if InBev’s bid for
Modelo goes ahead.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Jones in London at 
 sjones35@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  