-- Ex-SMBC Banker Arrested Amid Insider Trading Probe
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-06-26T03:17:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/ex-smbc-banker-arrested-amid-insider-trading-probe.html
A former  SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. 
executive was arrested yesterday, becoming the first banker from
a major Japanese brokerage to be detained for suspected  insider
trading  since 2008.  The Securities and Exchange Surveillance Commission and
Yokohama city prosecutors are investigating former SMBC Nikko
executive Hiroyoshi Yoshioka, 50, and three other people, the
financial watchdog said in a statement.  Japanese regulators are cracking down on insider trading
after recent disclosures of leaked information have eroded
confidence in the nation’s capital markets.  Nomura Holdings
Inc. (8604) , the country’s largest brokerage, this month acknowledged
its employees’ role in providing confidential data ahead of
share sales that the investment bank managed in 2010.  “We are very sorry and we take very seriously that our
former executive was arrested,” SMBC Nikko President Eiji Watanabe said at a news conference in  Tokyo  yesterday. “This
should never happen.”  Watanabe said Yoshioka denied that he was involved in
insider transactions while he was employed at SMBC Nikko, a unit
of  Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group Inc. (8316) ,  Japan ’s second-largest
bank by market value.  Vantec Shares  Yoshioka, who began working for SMBC Nikko on secondment
from Tokyo-based Sumitomo Mitsui’s banking unit in October 2009,
was the deputy head of  investment banking , according to the
brokerage’s website. He went back to Sumitomo Mitsui Banking
Corp. in May and the lender fired him, two people familiar with
the matter said on June 21.  The banker obtained information that  Hitachi Transport
System Ltd. (9086)  was planning a takeover bid for Vantec Corp.,
according to the SESC. He and the three other individuals then
conspired to buy 20 shares in Vantec for 2.4 million yen
($30,000) before the announcement of the purchase in 2011, the
watchdog said.  Yoshioka is the first banker to be arrested on suspicion of
insider trading since a former employee of Nomura in April 2008.
He and the others face as many as five years in prison and
maximum fines of 5 million yen if they’re found guilty, the SESC
said in the statement.  Shares of Sumitomo Mitsui fell 0.5 percent to 2,488 yen at
the midday break in Tokyo trading. They have risen 16 percent
this year, compared with a 2.8 percent gain in the  Nikkei 225
Stock Average. (NKY)   Internal Investigation  The bank is fully cooperating with local authorities in the
investigation, according to its statement. SMBC Nikko formed an
outside committee to investigate the insider trading case,
Watanabe said yesterday at the briefing. SMBC will also set up
an independent panel to probe the matter, Yujiro Ito, executive
at SMBC, said yesterday.  “It’s quite regrettable,” Financial Services Minister
Tadahiro Matsushita said today in response to Yoshioka’s arrest.
Insider trading has “persistently been discussed at the Diet
and press conferences in the three weeks since I took this post.
I am looking at this very seriously.”  Matsushita’s Financial Services Agency and SESC are
examining insider trading ahead of share sales by companies
including Nippon Sheet Glass Co.,  Inpex Corp. (1605) , Tokyo Electric
Power Co. and  Mizuho Financial Group Inc. (8411)  in 2010.  Underwriter Probe  The Nikkei 225 has lost 14 percent since late March, when
the commission began finding that the leaks came from the
underwriters of the stock offerings.  SMBC Nikko has been penalized for a separate incident. The
FSA ordered the brokerage in April to improve its business after
23 sales staff were determined to have disclosed information to
34 clients before an unidentified company’s announcement of an
equity offering.  Nomura said on June 8 that it was the unidentified
underwriter whose employees were revealed by the SESC to have
provided non-public information on the stock offerings by Inpex,
Mizuho and Tokyo Electric.  The SESC found that an employee of  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
gave information on Nippon Sheet’s stock sale, according to two
people with knowledge of the matter. New York-based JPMorgan
said on May 29 that it’s “cooperating fully” with Japanese
authorities.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in Tokyo at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in Tokyo at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  