-- Mexico’s Pena Nieto Rallies Support as Race Enters Final Week
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 2012-06-25T12:13:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/mexico-s-pena-nieto-rallies-support-as-race-enters-final-week.html
Mexican presidential front-runner
Enrique Pena Nieto filled most of  Latin America ’s largest soccer
stadium yesterday for his last rally in the capital before the
July 1 election, pledging to root out drug violence.  Speaking in  Mexico  City’s Estadio Azteca, a 105,000-seat
bowl that hosted the 1970 and 1986 World Cup title games, Pena
Nieto said he would protect democracy, amid charges that his
 Institutional Revolutionary Party , which ruled alone for seven
decades until 2000, will erode freedoms.  “I’m part of a generation that has grown up in a
democracy, and I aspire to be a president who governs respecting
liberties, listening to everyone and including the voices of
all,” said the 45-year-old former governor of Mexico state.
“I’m going to govern for democratic unity, to build the
agreements and reforms that our country needs.”  Pena Nieto has maintained a lead of more than 10 percent
over his rivals in opinion polls since the beginning of the year
on pledges for more inclusive economic growth and new efforts to
end the drug war. Voters list the war on cartels, which has left
more than 47,000 dead since President  Felipe Calderon  of the
 National Action Party , or PAN, took office in 2006, and sluggish
job growth as their top concerns.  A GEA-ISA poll released June 23 showed Pena Nieto had 38.5
percent support, compared with 22.9 percent for  Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador  of the Party of the Democratic Revolution and 21.4
percent for Josefina Vazquez Mota of the PAN. The survey of
1,152 potential voters was taken from June 21 to June 23 and had
a 3 percentage point margin of error.  Vazquez Mota  Pena Nieto’s rivals say he isn’t capable of bringing about
the change he promises and returning the PRI to power would
reignite corruption that blossomed under its previous rule.  At her own campaign closing event in Mexico City on June
23, Vazquez Mota filled most of a 45,000-seat bull ring, telling
supporters that the election isn’t over and that her campaign’s
own polls show her ahead of  Lopez Obrador  and trailing Pena
Nieto by only six percentage points.  “The decision is in your hands,” she told the crowd,
urging them to “make history” by making her Mexico’s first
female president.  Lopez Obrador is scheduled to hold his final campaign rally
on June 27 in the capital’s main square, known as the Zocalo.
Supporters of the former Mexico City mayor shut down the area
for months six years ago, claiming fraud in Calderon’s victory
by less than a percentage point.  Flags and Confetti  At Pena Nieto’s event, supporters clad in red, white and
green, the colors both of Mexico’s flag and the PRI, began to
fill the stadium hours before he spoke, dancing to blaring
trumpets and waving tri-color flags.  “He spoke with conviction about bringing change not only
for the party but for the nation,” said Luis Rivera, 24, a
computer programmer from Mexico City and PRI supporter who
attended the rally.  As Pena Nieto finished his speech after about 25 minutes,
he and his soap-opera star wife, Angelica Rivera, were showered
with red, green and silver confetti.  “We’re only one week away from winning the presidency,”
Pena Nieto said. “You should feel pride, because your vote is
going to change Mexico.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 