-- Mexico’s Peso Drops on Concern Global Economy to Remain Sluggish
-- B y   B e n   B a i n
-- 2012-06-25T21:36:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/mexico-s-peso-drops-on-concern-global-economy-to-remain-sluggish.html
Mexico ’s peso fell to a one-week low
as concern that policy makers won’t be able to jump-start the
global economic expansion damped the outlook for the Latin
American country’s exports.  The peso depreciated 0.4 percent to 13.9212 per dollar at 4
p.m. in Mexico City after touching 13.9762, the weakest level
since June 14. Today’s slump pared this year’s gain to 0.1
percent. It’s lost 8 percent this quarter.  Mexico’s currency slid as the  Bank for International
Settlements  said policy makers face the limit of their ability
to boost growth. A gauge of regional manufacturing in the U.S.,
the destination of 80 percent of Mexico’s exports, fell to its
lowest level since August, a report showed last week.  “Slower growth in U.S. economic activity is being
discounted in the peso,”  Mario Copca , a currency strategist at
Metanalisis SA, said in phone interview from Mexico City. “The
economic outlook in the U.S. is being modified a bit.”  The peso weakened as European leaders prepared for a summit
this week at which they will try to stem the sovereign-debt
crisis, which helped make the peso Latin America’s worst-
performing major currency last year.  A majority of Mexico’s central bank board members said the
balance of risks for Mexican growth had deteriorated, according
to the minutes of this month’s  Banco de Mexico  policy meeting
that were released June 22.  Speaking in an interview with Mexico City-based Radio
Formula broadcast last week, central bank Governor Agustin
Carstens narrowed his economic growth forecast for this year.
Gross domestic product will expand 3.5 percent to 4 percent,
with growth closer to 4 percent if the U.S. recovers quickly,
Carstens said. The bank forecast growth of 3.25 percent to 4.25
percent on May 16.  Bond Yield  The  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  reported on June
21 that its general economic index fell to minus 16.6 this month
from minus 5.8 in May. Zero is the dividing line between growth
and contraction for manufacturers in eastern Pennsylvania,
southern  New Jersey  and  Delaware .  The yield on Mexican local-currency bonds due in 2024 rose
five basis points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 5.68 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The price fell 0.58
centavo to 138.59 centavos per peso.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Bain in  New York  at 
 bbain2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  