-- Facebook Adds COO Sandberg to Board as First Female Director
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-06-26T19:21:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/facebook-appoints-sandberg-to-board-adding-first-woman-director.html
Facebook Inc. (FB) , facing criticism for
a lack of diversity on its board, appointed Chief Operating
Officer  Sheryl Sandberg  as its first female director.  “Sheryl has been my partner in running Facebook,” Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Zuckerberg  said in a statement yesterday.
“Her understanding of our mission and long-term opportunity,
and her experience both at Facebook and on public company boards
makes her a natural fit for our board.”  Facebook has been seeking to add directors, including at
least one woman, who can make its board more inclusive, people
with knowledge of the matter said last month. The world’s
largest social-networking service, a majority of whose users are
women, will benefit from the addition of a female voice to its
board, said Laura Martin, an analyst at Needham & Co.  “This is a great move for Facebook,” said Martin, who
doesn’t own shares and rates the stock a buy. “Academic
research shows that the greater the diversity on a board, the
higher the returns to shareholders are.”  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, which
manages $145 billion, asked Facebook in February to add a woman
to its board, arguing that diversity improves governance and
performance. The advocacy group Face It Campaign also urged
Facebook to diversify its board to include women and minorities.  UltraViolet, a women’s rights organization, said that while
Sandberg’s appointment represents progress, the company
shouldn’t end with a single female director.  Gender ‘Parity’  “Our goal has always been and Facebook’s goal ought to be
gender parity,” in part because the company’s success relies on
the participation of women, said Shaunna Thomas, co-founder of
UltraViolet. “They have a great opportunity to demonstrate that
women should have a seat at these tables.”  Chief operating officers serve as directors for 718
publicly traded companies, including 24 members of the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Zuckerberg picked existing directors as he sought advice in
building the company he co-founded in a Harvard University dorm
room in 2004. Aside from Zuckerberg, the board includes  Donald Graham , CEO of Washington Post Co.; venture capitalist Mark Andreessen, co-founder of Netscape Communications Corp.;  Jim Breyer , managing general partner of Accel Partners, an early
investor in Facebook;  Peter Thiel , a venture capitalist and the
founder of hedge fund Clarium Capital LLC;  Reed Hastings , CEO of
 Netflix Inc. (NFLX) ; and Erskine Bowles, president emeritus of
University of North Carolina.  Counter to Zuckerberg  Sandberg may provide outside Facebook directors with a
perspective about the company separate from founder Zuckerberg,
even though many companies no longer invite their No. 2
executives onto boards, said  Rakesh Khurana , a Harvard Business
School professor who has written about governance.  “Prior to the big shift to independent boards in recent
years, chief operating officers or other No. 2’s at companies
were often directors,” said Khurana. “The reason given was
they could provide information about the company to outside
directors, so the CEO didn’t completely dominate.”  Just 11.3 percent of the Fortune 500 had male-only boards
last year, according to Catalyst, a New York-based nonprofit
organization that researches women’s progress in business.  Sandberg was hired as COO of Menlo Park, California-based
Facebook in 2008 and is a director of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)   Before joining Facebook, Sandberg was vice president of
global online sales and operations at Google Inc. Previously,
she served as chief of staff for the U.S. Treasury Department
under President  Bill Clinton . She began her career as an
economist with the  World Bank .  ‘Natural Fit’  “Sheryl’s a totally natural fit for the board,” said  Matt Cohler , a partner at Benchmark Capital who is an adviser to
Facebook, in an e-mailed statement. “She’s been an important
part of building and managing Facebook’s growth over the years,
helping the company to create long-term value.”  Facebook rose 4.2 percent to $33.42 at 3:03 p.m. in New
York. Through yesterday, the stock had lost 16 percent this
year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in San Francisco at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  