-- Fed’s Twist Distorting TIPS Yield Curve, Barclays’ Pond Says
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-25T20:42:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/fed-s-twist-distorting-tips-yield-curve-barclays-pond-says.html
The extension of the  Federal
Reserve ’s Operation Twist program is keeping prices of
inflation-indexed  U.S. debt  lower than they would otherwise be,
according to Michael Pondof Barclays Plc.  Yields on Treasury Inflation Protected Securities maturing
in 20 years to 30 years would be as much as 15 basis points, or
0.15 percentage point, lower if the Fed continued to buy the
securities at a percentage equal to the amount traded as it did
under the second round of its quantitative-easing program, he
said. TIPS will account for about 3 percent of the Fed’s
purchases announced last week, compared with 6 percent during
so-called QE2.  Central-bank officials led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last
week increased and extended the program, which is replacing $400
billion of shorter maturities with longer-term debt through the
this month, until year-end. They increased it by $267 billion.  “The Fed purchased a boatload of nominal versus TIPS and
looks to do so again and as such break-evens have been pressured
to the downside as investors flocked to longer dated Treasuries-
an unintended consequence of the Fed’ action,” said Pond, the
top rated TIPS analyst the past three years in Institutional
Investor magazine polls of more than 890 firms that manage about
$10.2 trillion in assets. “They will likely stay relatively
cheaper than they would be until Twist is over or the Fed
changes their purchase amounts.”  Break-Even Rate  The Fed’s purchases of longer maturity Treasuries have
almost quadrupled to $112 billion from QE2, he said. That
compares to a 7.1 percent growth in longer TIP purchases to $7.5
billion over the same time frame, he said.  The yield gap between 10-year notes and TIPS, a signal of
traders’ expectations for inflation called the break-even rate,
was 2.07 percentage points. It touched a 2012 low of 1.9
percentage points on Jan. 3 and a high of 2.45 percentage points
on March 20.  “We do not think the Fed is trying to actively distort
break-evens,”  Pond said. “We encourage the Fed to increase
its allocation to TIPS purchases in its extension of Twist”  Barclays Capital  is one of 21 primary dealers that are
obligated to bid in Treasury auctions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in  New York  at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  