-- Fidelity National to Add J. Alexander’s, Take Unit Public
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-06-25T12:56:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/fidelity-national-to-add-j-alexander-s-in-restaurant-wager.html
Fidelity National Financial Inc. (FNF) ,
the largest U.S. title insurer, agreed to buy J. Alexander’s
Corp. to expand a bet on U.S. restaurants and take its dining
unit public.  Shareholders of J. Alexander’s may elect to receive $12 in
cash per share, compared with the June 22 closing price of
$9.90, in a deal that values the target company at about $72
million, Jacksonville, Florida-based Fidelity said today in a
statement. J. Alexander’s  investors  may also opt to take a
combination of cash and stock in the insurer’s restaurant
subsidiary, to be named American Blue Ribbon Holdings Inc. and
listed on the Nasdaq Stock Market or another exchange.  Fidelity Chairman William P. Foley II has been adding to
restaurant holdings to gain scale after investing in Village Inn
and Bakers Square in 2009 in a wager tied to distressed debt of
a dining company. Foley announced an agreement in February to
buy restaurant chain O’Charley’s Inc. in a deal that valued the
company at more than $200 million.  “This transaction will provide significant benefits for
our shareholders,” J. Alexander’s Chairman and Chief Executive
Officer Lonnie J. Stout II said it a separate statement. “It
not only rewards them with a cash premium for their existing
shares, it offers them participation in the future business
prospects of a much larger entity.”  The combined dining company will have more than 700
restaurants in 43 states with annual revenue of about $1.5
billion, according to the target company’s statement.  J. Alexander’s operates 33 restaurants and is based in
Nashville,  Tennessee . The company serves steaks, seafood, salad
and desserts, according to the statement. Its stock has surged
58 percent this year through June 22. Fidelity jumped 19
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at 
 dkraut2@bloomberg.net  