-- Fisker Loan, A123 Battery Grant Questioned by Senators
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-06-25T22:54:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/fisker-loan-a123-battery-grant-questioned-by-senators.html
Two Republican U.S. senators
questioning U.S. assistance to luxury plug-in carmaker Fisker
Automotive Inc. asked the Energy Department for more information
about its $529 million in loans to the company.  Senator  Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who is his
party’s ranking member on the Senate Judiciary Committee,
questioned an Energy Department website posting saying the
agency’s loan to Fisker would result in the equivalent of 30,000
fewer cars on U.S. roads. He also asked why the U.S. would grant
a loan to a company part-owned by the sovereign wealth fund of
Qatar.  “It appears that Fisker has experienced difficulty
creating American jobs and questions have been raised regarding
the decision to loan Fisker over half a billion dollars of
taxpayer money,” Grassley and U.S. Senator  John Thune , a South
Dakota Republican, said in a letter sent today to Energy
Secretary Steven Chu.  The senators sent the Energy Department questions about the
Anaheim, California-based Fisker in April and said today they
weren’t satisfied by the agency’s answers.  The company was approved for $529 million in U.S. loans in
2009 to develop technology for its first model, the Karma, and
revamp a closed General Motors factory in Wilmington,  Delaware ,
to build a second model to be called the Atlantic. Fisker drew
down about $193 million before its access to the funds was
suspended last year, owing to delays with the Karma.  Chief Executive Officer Tom LaSorda said in April that the
company may build the Atlantic overseas instead of in Delaware.  “As Fisker works through those issues and incorporates
lessons learned from the production of the Karma, the department
is working with Fisker to review a revised business plan and
determine the best path forward so the company can meet its
benchmarks, produce cars and employ workers here in America,”
 Damien LaVera , an Energy Department spokesman, said in an e-
mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in Washington at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  