-- Forint Goes to First From Worst as Orban Seen Near IMF Talks
-- B y   A n d r a s   G e r g e l y
-- 2012-06-26T15:01:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/forint-goes-to-first-from-worst-as-orban-seen-nearing-imf-talks.html
The forint, the world’s worst-
performing currency in the second half of 2011, is  Europe ’s best
this year as Hungary’s government agrees to conditions for
restarting international bailout talks.  The currency of the European Union’s most-indebted eastern
member jumped 9.5 percent against the euro and 5.5 percent
against the dollar this year through yesterday, the most
worldwide after the Colombian peso and paring its 16 percent
slide against Europe’s common currency in the previous six
months.  Government bonds  returned 21 percent in euro terms this
year, the most after Portuguese debt, data compiled by EFFAS and
Bloomberg show.  Prime Minister  Viktor Orban ’s government last week
submitted to parliament amendments to a law which the
 International Monetary Fund  and EU had said threatened central
bank independence, potentially ending a seven-month stalemate
that blocked talks on a $19 billion  credit line . That may help
Hungary obtain aid by year-end, extending the forint’s rally,
according to Intesa Sanpaolo SpA’s CIB Bank unit, the most-
accurate euro-forint forecaster in the six quarters through
March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Rankings.  “It will be a big step forward if the central bank law is
approved in the form that is acceptable to the EU, the IMF and
the  European Central Bank ,” Sandor Jobbagy, a Budapest-based
analyst at CIB, said by phone on June 19. CIB sees the forint
gaining 1.6 percent to 283 by year-end and 2.7 percent to 280 in
12 months.  Bailouts  The forint appreciated 0.5 percent to 286.34 per euro by
4:38 p.m. in Budapest. The government’s benchmark three-year
bonds gained, cutting yields eight basis points to 7.762
percent, the lowest since that security was first sold in
February.  Hungary  became the first EU nation to receive a bailout in
2008 after the collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. caused
global credit markets to freeze. Orban, 49, shunned fresh aid
when he took office in 2010, giving him freedom to orchestrate
the takeover of $13 billion in privately managed pension funds
to help meet EU budget requirements and cut public debt. Orban
said on May 31 he will reject most of the EU’s economic policy
recommendations for member states as they would damage Hungary.  Any restart on aid talks may be just as protracted as the
process to initiate them, causing the forint to weaken, said Thu Lan Nguyen, a Frankfurt-based currency strategist at Commerzbank
AG, which was the second-closest forecaster.  ‘Still Skeptical’  “I am still skeptical that the Hungarian government will
be willing to adhere to the conditions that the IMF and EU will
like to set,” Nguyen said in e-mailed comments last week.  The international lenders’ demands on taxation and fiscal
policy are be “more comprehensive, ambitious, and intrusive
than the government expects and is going to be willing and/or
able to accept,” Mujtaba Rahman, a New York-based Eurasia Group
analyst, wrote in a June 20 report.  Monetary policy  must be “extremely cautious” during IMF
bailout talks, which will be “bumpy,” central bank vice
president  Ferenc Karvalits  said in e-mailed answers to questions
from Bloomberg News last month.  The delay in the IMF deal is “holding up rate cuts,”
 Daniel Hewitt , a London-based economist at Barclays Plc, the
fourth-most accurate forecaster, wrote in a research report
yesterday. The central bank left the EU’s highest benchmark rate
unchanged at 7 percent for the sixth month today, matching the
forecasts of all  27 economists  in a Bloomberg survey.  Eroding Independence  Commerzbank predicts the forint will slump 2.9 percent to
296 per euro in the third quarter and 5.4 percent to 304 by
year-end. The forint will depreciate beyond 300 per euro in the
third quarter, according to Przemyslaw Kwiecien, Warsaw-based
chief economist for X-Trade Brokers Dom Maklerski, the third
most-accurate forecaster.  While Hungary can survive without an IMF safety net in the
“short term,” it faces a bigger risk from a slowdown in the
largest economies in the EU, which buys most of the country’s
exports, Kwiecien said in a phone interview on June 20. Hungary
sends 77 percent of its exports to the region, compared with an
average 30 percent for the 21 countries in the MSCI emerging-
market index, data compiled by the World Trade Organization
show.  German business confidence fell to the lowest in more than
two years in June as the worsening sovereign debt crisis clouded
the economic outlook, according to the Munich-based Ifo
Institute on June 22. Hungary’s economy contracted for the first
time in more than two years in the first quarter. Gross domestic
product will decline 0.8 percent this year, the central bank
said in its Inflation Report today.  Junk Status  Orban requested international assistance last November
after the forint slumped to 317 per euro, then a record low. The
three biggest credit-rating companies cut the country to junk
status, citing the currency’s drop and concern Hungary’s
policies were delaying a bailout and eroding the independence of
regulators. The forint weakened to as low as 324.24 against the
euro after lawmakers in December approved central bank
legislation despite EU and IMF objections.  The Magyar Nemzeti Bank said last week the government has
accepted EU and IMF recommendations on changes to the central
bank law necessary to start talks. The legislation approved by
the IMF, European Commission and the ECB may be passed by
lawmakers within two weeks, “after which I can see no
substantial obstacle to the start of negotiations,”  Mihaly Varga , the government’s chief negotiator, said in an interview
on state-run television channel M1 on June 21.  Cost of Risk  “The fact that the government took seven months to make
changes to the central bank law does not bode well for a speedy
negotiation process,” Barclays’ Hewitt said in a report on June
20. Barclays sees Hungary’s currency 3.2 percent weaker at 297
by year-end.  The cost of insuring Hungarian bonds for five years using
credit-default swaps has tumbled 98 basis points from a five-
month high of 630 reached on June 5, data compiled by Bloomberg
show. The swaps fell three basis points to 528 basis points
today.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Hungary’s dollar
bonds rather than U.S. Treasuries has retreated 134 basis points
from a five-month high of 6.79 percentage points on June 1,
according to JPMorgan Chase & Co. indexes. The spread was little
changed at 556 basis points today.  The forint may appreciate to 285 by the end of the year and
265 year-end 2013,  Gaelle Blanchard , a London-based emerging-
market currency strategist at  Societe Generale  SA, wrote in an
e-mail on June 21. Two months ago, Societe Generale had forecast
the forint weakening to as low as 315 due to bailout talk
delays.  “The country’s medium-term outlook has improved
considerably under the premise that an IMF program will
ultimately be put in place,” Blanchard said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andras Gergely in Budapest at 
 agergely@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  