-- Free-Agent Marlon Byrd Suspended 50 Games for Failing Drug Test
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-25T21:15:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/free-agent-marlon-byrd-suspended-50-games-for-failing-drug-test.html
Free-agent outfielder Marlon Byrd,
an All-Star in 2010 with the Chicago Cubs, was suspended for 50
games for a violation of Major League Baseball’s drug policy.  Byrd, 34, will be placed on the restricted list until the
suspension ends on Aug. 20, the office of MLB Commissioner  Bud Selig  said today in an e-mailed release. The outfielder tested
positive for Tamoxifen, a performance-enhancing substance,
according to the statement.  Byrd said today in a statement released by the MLB Players
Association that the positive test was a result of medication
given last winter for a private condition unrelated to baseball.
He was not specific about the condition.  “Although that medication is on the banned list, I
absolutely did not use it for performance-enhancement reasons,”
Byrd said. “I am mortified by my carelessness and I apologize
to everyone who loves this game as I do. I will serve my
suspension, continue to work hard and hope that I am given an
opportunity to help a club win later this season.”  Tamoxifen interferes with the activity of estrogen and has
commonly been used for more than 30 years to treat  breast cancer ,
according to the National Cancer Institute. It also can be used
in conjunction with steroids, reducing the risks of having too
much estrogen in the body.  Byrd had his best season in 2009, when he hit .283 with a
career-high 20 home runs and 89 runs batted in with the  Texas
Rangers . The following season he was named to the National
League All-Star team with the Cubs. He has also played for the
 Philadelphia Phillies , Washington Nationals and  Boston Red Sox .  In 47 games this season with the Cubs and Red Sox, Byrd was
batted .210 with one home run and nine runs batted in. He was
released by Boston this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  