-- Gen Re, AIG Defendants Win Approval of Fraud Dismissals
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-06-25T20:48:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/gen-re-aig-defendants-win-approval-of-fraud-dismissals.html
Four former General Reinsurance
Corp. executives and one at  American International Group Inc. (AIG) 
will win dismissal of accounting fraud charges under deferred-
prosecution agreements approved today by a U.S. judge.  The executives were convicted at trial of fraud charges in
2008 and sentenced to prison before a federal appeals court
overturned the verdicts and ordered a new trial in Hartford,
Connecticut. On June 22, prosecutors agreed to drop the charges
in a year, and the executives admitted that “aspects” of a
transaction in 2000 and 2001 were fraudulent. Prosecutors
alleged that the fraud helped to deceive AIG investors.  U.S. District Judge Vanessa Bryant’s approval is needed for
the agreements covering former  General Re  Chief Executive
Officer Ronald Ferguson, ex-Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth Monrad, ex-Senior Vice President Christopher Garand, ex-
Assistant General Counsel Robert Graham, and former AIG Vice
President Christian Milton.  “Mr. Garand has always adamantly maintained his innocence
and that he acted in the utmost good faith,” his attorney,
 Robert Cleary , said in a phone interview. “As Mr. Garand now
looks to restore his good name and claim back his reputation, I
would like to thank the  Department of Justice  for having the
professionalism to recognize that this was a fatally flawed
prosecution.”  Attorneys for the other defendants didn’t immediately
return calls or e-mails seeking comment.  Red Flags  Each executive acknowledged that parts of the transaction
were fraudulent, that they disregarded red flags suggesting the
deal would be “improperly accounted for,” and that they
“should have attempted to stop it from going forward, but
instead continued to participate in it,” according to their
agreements filed in federal court in Hartford.  Under the agreements, Ferguson will pay a $200,000 fine;
Milton, $200,000, Monrad, $250,000; Garand $150,000; and Graham,
$100,000.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in New York ordered the new trial
in August. It was set for Jan. 22.  At the original trial, jurors convicted each defendant of
charges including conspiracy,  securities fraud , mail fraud and
making false statements to the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Prosecutors said Ferguson and his subordinates set up a
phony reinsurance deal after Maurice “Hank” Greenberg, then-
chief executive officer of New York-based AIG, sought to assuage
investors about the reserves.  The trial featured testimony about Greenberg and
billionaire  Warren Buffett , chairman of Omaha, Nebraska-based
 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , which owns General Re. Neither was
charged with a crime, and both denied wrongdoing.  The appeals court said that the trial judge erroneously let
prosecutors show jurors three charts with AIG stock-price data,
and improperly instructed the jury on causation.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 3:06-cr-00137, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Hartford).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in Newark,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 