-- German DAX Drops Most in Three Weeks; ThyssenKrupp Sinks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   M o r g a n
-- 2012-06-25T16:13:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/german-stocks-decline-thyssenkrupp-deutsche-bank-fall.html
German stocks slid the most in three
weeks as billionaire investor  George Soros  warned that failure
to produce drastic measures at a meeting of European Union
leaders could spell the demise of the euro.  HeidelbergCement AG, the world’s third-largest maker of
cement, retreated 4.2 percent.  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , the country’s
biggest bank, lost 4.1 percent after  RBC Capital Markets 
downgraded the stock.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA)  fell 3.8 percent as
JPMorgan Chase & Co. reduced its share-price estimate for
 Germany ’s largest steelmaker.  The DAX Index slid 2.1 percent to 6,132.39 at the close of
trading in  Frankfurt , the biggest drop since June 1. The gauge
has fallen 14 percent from its 2012 high on March 16 amid
concern that the euro-region debt crisis is harming the economy,
trimming the advance in the first six months of the year to 4
percent. The broader HDAX Index retreated 2 percent today.  “There is no conviction to put money to work and take any
risks as we wait for this week’s European meeting,” said Daniel Weston, a portfolio adviser at Schroeder Equities GmbH in
Munich. “When Soros talks, people listen, and when he talks
about a ‘fiasco,’ there is a lack of conviction in buying
shares.”  EU leaders will hold a two-day summit starting on June 28
amid concern that the region’s debt crisis is spreading, while
Italy and  Spain  auction debt tomorrow.  European Treasuries  Soros called on policy makers in  Europe  to create a
European fiscal authority to purchase sovereign debt in return
for Italy and Spain implementing achievable budget cuts. Funding
for the purchases would come from the sale of European
Treasuries, which would have low yields because they would be
backed by each euro member, he said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua yesterday.  “There is a disagreement on the fiscal side,” said Soros.
“Unless that is resolved in the next three days, then I am
afraid the summit could turn out to be a fiasco. That could
actually be fatal.”  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hardened her resistance to
euro-area debt sharing, saying at a conference in Berlin today
that “euro bonds, euro bills and European  deposit insurance 
with joint liability and much more” are “economically wrong
and counterproductive.”  “It’s not a bold prediction to say that in Brussels most
eyes -- all eyes -- will be on Germany yet again,” Merkel said.
“I say quite openly: when I think of the summit on Thursday I’m
concerned that once again the discussion will be far too much
about all kinds of ideas for joint liability and far too little
about improved oversight and structural measures.”  U.S. Homebuyers  German stocks fell even as demand for new U.S. homes rose
more than forecast in May. Purchases climbed to a 369,000 annual
rate, up 7.6 percent from the prior month and the most since
April 2010, the Commerce Department reported today in
 Washington . The median estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 67
economists was 347,000.  HeidelbergCement dropped 4.2 percent to 34.98 euros, the
largest decline in six weeks.  Deutsche Bank declined 4.1 percent to 27.37 euros after the
stock was downgraded to sector perform, the equivalent of hold,
from outperform by Fiona Swaffield, an analyst at RBC.  ThyssenKrupp fell 3.8 percent to 12.20 euros as JPMorgan
cut the stock’s price estimate to 18 euros from 21 euros. The
brokerage kept its overweight  recommendation , equivalent to a
buy rating.  EON, RWE  EON AG and  RWE AG (RWE) , the country’s two largest utilities,
fell 3.1 percent to 15.37 euros and 3.2 percent to 29.94 euros,
respectively. The companies may outsource nuclear disposals to
Areva SA, the world’s biggest maker of atomic reactors,
according to Handelsblatt.  RWE’s Nordsee Ost wind farm will produce power later than
previously planned due to delays in its grid connection,  Der
Spiegel  quoted the German utility’s incoming chief executive
officer, Peter Terium, as saying.  Suedzucker AG (SZU)  advanced 1.7 percent to 26.25 euros, a third
day of gains, after the sugar refiner said first-quarter
operating profit climbed to 263 million euros ($328 million)
from 184 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Morgan in Frankfurt at 
 jmorgan157@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  