-- Gol Plans to Cut Twice as Many Jobs by Year-End, CFO Says
-- B y   B o r i s   K o r b y   a n d   D r e w   B e n s o n
-- 2012-06-25T21:16:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/gol-plans-to-cut-twice-as-many-jobs-by-year-end-cfo-says-2-.html
Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA (GOLL4) ,
 Brazil ’s second-largest airline, will cut 2,500 jobs to restore
profitability, twice as many as it had planned last month, Chief
Financial Officer Leonardo Pereira said.  The Sao Paulo-based carrier is firing workers and won’t
replace those leaving the company, Pereira said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. The company said
as recently as May it would trim about 1,200 positions from a
workforce of about 20,500. Gol expects to end 2012 with 138
planes, down from 150 to start the year.  A slowdown in economic growth, declines in the currency and
an inability to raise prices amid increasing competition fueled
losses at the airline in three of the past four quarters,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gol more than doubled
capacity in the past five years as growth surged in  Latin
America ’s largest economy.  The company will “most likely” end the year with fewer
than 18,000 workers, Pereira said. “That’s a result of not
hiring people, not opening new positions. We are being very cost
conscious.”  The company’s  stock has tumbled  47 percent in the past
year, compared with a 12 percent decline for Brazil’s Bovespa
stock index. Yields on the company’s benchmark dollar bonds due
in 2020 have surged 325 basis points, or 3.25 pecentage point,
in the past three months to 12.16 percent, Bloomberg data show.  Economic Projection  Brazil’s economy will expand 2.18 percent this year, down
from 2.7 percent in 2011, according to the median estimate of
100 economists in a central bank survey published today. The
real has lost 11 percent this quarter, the biggest drop among
the 16 most-traded currencies tracked by Bloomberg. About 55
percent of Gol’s costs, including fuel and aircraft leases, are
in dollars, while the majority of receivables are in reais.  The carrier announced June 18 that Chief Executive Officer
Constantino de Oliveira Jr. was stepping down and Paulo Kakinoff, Audi AG’s Brazil head, was preparing to take over as
CEO on July 2. Oliveira will become chairman.  “We have done a tremendous exercise inside the company in
terms of adapting the cost structure,” Pereira said. “If you
have a scenario where you have a weaker real or higher fuel
costs, you have to have an operation that’s leaner. We are
working very hard on cutting fixed costs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Boris Korby in  New York  at 
 bkorby1@bloomberg.net ;
Drew Benson in New York at 
 abenson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  