-- Potency of Industry Patents Key to U.S. Google-Apple Case
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-26T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/google-s-motorola-win-in-apple-iphone-patent-case-gets-review.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s bid to limit  Google
Inc. (GOOG) ’s use of certain patents as a tool to block imports of the
iPhone and iPad may be getting traction at a U.S. trade agency,
possibly altering the global battle over smartphones.  The U.S. International Trade Commission  said  yesterday it
will review whether Apple, which gets about 75 percent of its
revenue from the iPhone, iPad and related products, infringed
four patents held by Google’s Motorola Mobility unit. A trade
judge in April said Apple infringed one of the patents.  The commission also asked lawyers in the case, and the
public, for comments on how to proceed when infringed patents
cover aspects of technology that are adopted by an entire
industry so electronic devices work across platforms.  “There’s some sort of movement to reduce ‘competition
through litigation,’” said  Will Stofega , a program manager at
researcher IDC in Framingham,  Massachusetts . “They really want
to bring this whole issue to a head. Patent litigation is part
of the ordinary due course of business, but this has gone beyond
that.”  The U.S. Federal Trade Commission, a half-dozen members of
Congress and companies including  Intel Corp . and Cisco Systems
Inc. have in recent weeks questioned whether companies that
helped develop standards should be able to get orders from the
ITC to block competitors’ use of the technology.  The ITC will review aspects of all four Motorola Mobility
patents in the case against Apple. Of the 13 questions it posed
to lawyers yesterday, eight are related to handling standard-
essential patents. Should it side with Motorola Mobility, the
agency has the power to order  U.S. Customs  and Border Protection
to stop iPhones and iPad computers made in Asia from entering
the U.S.  75 Percent  The iPhone generated $22.7 billion in sales in the quarter
ended March 31 for Apple, or 58 percent of the company’s total
revenue. It was the best-selling smartphone in the U.S., with 29
percent of the market, while Motorola Mobility had 10 percent,
researcher NPD Group  said  May 2.  Apple’s iPad dominates the tablet computer market, with 72
percent of the market, according to  researcher DisplaySearch .
The iPad and related products brought in $6.6 billion for Apple,
almost 17 percent of its revenue, in the second quarter.  A ruling for Apple on the smartphone issue would limit the
ammunition that Motorola Mobility has hurled at its rivals.
Apple and  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  have said the patents they asserted at
the ITC against Motorola Mobility are for features, not industry
standards.  3G, Wi-Fi  Two of the patents in Motorola Mobility’s case against
Apple relate to the industry standard for 3G generation
technology. The 3G patent that was found to be infringed covers
a way to eliminate noise so signals are clearer.  “We remain confident in our position and look forward to
the further confirmation of Apple’s violation of Motorola
Mobility’s intellectual property when the full commission rules
in August,”  Jennifer Erickson , a spokeswoman for Libertyville,
Illinois-based Motorola Mobility, said in a statement.  In a case Motorola Mobility filed against Microsoft over
the Xbox video-gaming system, four of five patents relate to
standards for Wi-Fi and video compression. A judge said three of
the standard-essential patents and another Motorola Mobility
patent were infringed. The commission said it needs another
week, until July 2, to determine how it will handle the next
steps in that case.  Allowing the owner of a standard-essential patent to seek an
import ban would undermine the purpose of establishing industry
standards, Apple’s lawyers wrote in a June 8 letter to the ITC
supporting Microsoft. Any dispute over royalties should be
handled in civil court, the company said.  Pre-Emptive Strike  “Enabling hold-up of the industry could undercut the
development of industry standards and reverse the gains in
productivity that standardization produces, thereby damaging not
only companies like Microsoft, but also U.S. consumers and the
public in general,” Apple wrote.  Motorola Mobility filed its complaint against Apple in
October 2010 as a pre-emptive strike after the iPhone maker made
public statements that phones running on Google’s Android
operating system were copying features of its products. The
dispute is part of a broader global battle for supremacy in the
smartphone and tablet computer markets that also pits Apple
against Android-device manufacturers Samsung Electronics Co. and
 HTC Corp. (2498)   Bargaining Power  Android is the most popular platform for smartphones, with
61 percent of the market, NPD said.  Apple is appealing its loss in the patent-infringement
complaint it filed at the ITC against Motorola Mobility, and a
federal judge in  Chicago  last week threw out patent claims Apple
and Motorola Mobility had filed against each other. Google
bought Motorola Mobility in part to gain access to its trove of
17,000 patents, many on phone technology.  In the Chicago case, U.S. Circuit Judge  Richard Posner  said
he wouldn’t ban a product that follows an industry standard
unless Apple refused to pay a fair rate.  “Once a patent becomes essential to a standard, the
patentee’s bargaining power surges because a prospective
licensee has no alternative to licensing the patent; he is at
the patentee’s mercy,” Posner wrote.  EU Complaint  Cupertino, California-based Apple also has filed a
complaint against Motorola Mobility at the European Union,
accusing the handset manufacturer of misusing patents that
relate to industry standards. It also filed a lawsuit accusing
Motorola Mobility of breaching its contractual obligation to
license any standard-essential patents on fair and reasonable
terms.  Apple contends Motorola Mobility never made a fair offer,
while Motorola Mobility has said that Apple won’t negotiate.  The case against Apple is In the Matter of Wireless
Communication Devices, Portable Music and Data Processing
Devices, Computers and Components Thereof, 337-745, and Apple’s
case against Motorola Mobility is In the Matter of Mobile
Devices and Related Software, 337-750, both U.S. International
Trade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net ;
William McQuillen in Washington at 
 bmcquillen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  