-- Greece Seen Blocked From Debt Markets Until 2017: Euro Credit
-- B y   A n c h a l e e   W o r r a c h a t e   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-06-25T11:33:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/greece-seen-blocked-from-debt-markets-until-2017-euro-credit.html
Greece  may have to wait at least
another five years before it can sell bonds to investors,
according to financial institutions that trade debt with
European governments.  A new administration in  Athens  and signs that European
Union leaders are willing to loosen Greek austerity measures
failed to convince primary dealers that the country will be able
to return to the market before its second bailout ends in the
next three years.  Three of 20 companies surveyed by Bloomberg News that deal
directly with sovereign bond issuers expect it to take at least
a decade before Greece issues debt again. Ten say investors
would lend money to the country no sooner than 2017, while five
predict 2015 at the earliest. The median forecast was a minimum
of five years.  “The challenges facing Greece remain extremely large,”
said Jamie Searle, a fixed-income strategist at Citigroup Inc.
in  London . “It will be a long while before they can get back to
the market.”  Greece last sold bonds in March 2010 before the extra yield
that investors demand for holding its 10-year securities instead
of German bunds ballooned the next month to 443 basis points,
then a euro-era record. That forced the country, facing 8.5
billion euros ($10.7 billion) of bond repayments, to start
bailout talks with the EU, the  European Central Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund .  Ten-year Greek debt yielded 25.72 percentage points more
than German bunds as of 12:25 p.m. London time today.  Possible Exit  Analysts at New York-based Citigroup said there’s a 50
percent to 75 percent chance that the nation will exit the euro
region in the next 12 to 18 months. Their view hasn’t changed
since before the June 17 election.  Antonis Samaras was sworn in last week as prime minister,
Greece’s fourth since November, after his New Democracy party
won the vote. He is under pressure to tackle the nation’s debt
crisis with the economy in a fifth year of recession and
unemployment at 21 percent.  Greece won a second bailout this year from the EU and the
IMF, taking the total rescue package to 240 billion euros. Under
the country’s bailout program, Greece has to reduce its  budget
deficit  to 7.3 percent of gross domestic product this year from
9.3 percent in 2011, and cut its primary deficit, which excludes
interest payments, to 1 percent from 2.4 percent.  Fiscal Union  It may need a third bailout or another round of bond
writedowns, or both, to get debt to a manageable level, said
officials from the primary dealers, who asked that they not be
identified. Some said policy makers must signal their
willingness to share the burden by issuing common bonds before
investors are confident enough to buy Greek securities.  “The only thing that will get investors’ trust back is to
get something that looks like a fiscal union because Greece
isn’t going to grow out of the problem,” said  John Wraith , a
fixed-income strategist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in
London. “Investors have given up on the concept of a union that
doesn’t have a fiscal transfer, but does have the  interest rate 
and currency locked together.”  The country sparked  Europe ’s sovereign-debt crisis in 2009
after saying its deficit was bigger than previously thought,
reaching a euro-region record of 15.8 percent of GDP that year.  European leaders will hold a two-day summit on June 28 to
seek a way out of the debt turmoil. Billionaire investor  George Soros  warned that failure by leaders meeting this week to
produce drastic measures could spell the demise of the currency.  Tough Times  Yields on Greek 10-year bonds dropped to 27.21 percent
today from a record high of 44 percent in March. The rate is at
least 20 percentage points above the level at which Greece could
fund itself, as the country along with Ireland and Portugal all
sought aid when 10-year yields surpassed 7 percent.  The nation’s ratio of debt to GDP is projected to rise to
168 percent next year from 161 percent, according to the
European Commission’s report of May 11. The economy will
contract 4.7 percent this year and show zero growth in 2013, the
commission said.  “The country is still insolvent and there is little
progress in the way of fiscal adjustment and growth,” said
Piero Ghezzi, the head of global economics at  Barclays Capital 
in London. “Investors will need to see what the end game for
Greece is before they buy its bonds again. A country can borrow
in the market only if there is demand for its debt. For Greece,
that can be easily five years away.”  Primary Dealers  Companies participating in the Bloomberg survey were Bank
of America Merrill Lynch,  Bayerische Landesbank , BNP Paribas SA,
Citigroup, Commerzbank AG, Credit Agricole SA, Danske Bank SA,
Deutsche Bank AG, DZ Bank AG, HSBC Holdings Plc, ING Bank NV,
Jefferies International, Landesbank Baden-Wuerttermberg, Lloyds
TSB Bank Plc, Nomura International, Rabobank International,
Royal Bank of Canada, Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Barclays
Plc and UniCredit SpA. They provided their forecasts on June 21
and June 22 on a non-attributable basis.  Petros Christodoulou, former head of the Greek debt office,
said June 19 that his nation isn’t close to selling bonds and
there may be common euro debt issuance by the time it returns to
the markets. He also said Greece will remain a member of the 17-
nation euro area.  The IMF recommended issuing common debt on June 21 after
warning that the euro-area crisis has reached a “critical”
stage.  “Greece could return to the market quickly if leaders take
the right policy decisions,” said  Padhraic Garvey , head of
developed market debt at ING in Amsterdam. “But the risk that
things could go in a very wrong direction, taking Greece much
longer to return to the market, is greater than the other way
around.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anchalee Worrachate in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in London at 
 aworrachate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tim Quinson in London at 
 tquinson@bloomberg.net  