-- Greek Finance Minister Quits Days Into the Job on Illness
-- B y   M a r i a   P e t r a k i s   a n d   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-06-25T17:32:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/greek-foreign-minister-to-attend-summit-as-samaras-recuperates.html
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras
consented to the resignation of his finance minister, Vassilios Rapanos, four days after naming him to the post.  Rapanos, a former National  Bank of Greece (TELL)  SA chairman, sent
his letter of resignation while still hospitalized after
collapsing on June 22. The resignation was accepted by Samaras,
according to a phone-text message from the premier’s office in
Athens today.  “The state of my health isn’t at the state that would
allow me to fully and adequately exercise my duties,” Rapanos
said in the letter, which was provided by the premier’s office.
“I regret that I will not be able to accept in the end your
honorable proposal.”  Finance Minister-designate Rapanos was hospitalized for
nausea and dizziness, days after Samaras’s  New Democracy  forged
an agreement on a government with third-placed socialist Pasok
and the Democratic Left party following June 17 elections. The
resignation of Rapanos, who was never sworn in, leaves Samaras
and his coalition partners without a finance chief just as the
government prepares to press for more concessions with
international creditors.  Samaras himself is recuperating from eye surgery in Athens,
and will miss his first summit of European Union leaders as
premier later this week. President Karolos Papoulias was named
to represent  Greece .  Greek Setback  Missing the summit may set back Samaras’s bid to ease the
budget cuts demanded in exchange for emergency loans. EU leaders
were due to grill him on his coalition’s plan to renegotiate the
terms of a 130 billion-euro ($163 billion) rescue package. While
Papoulias, a former foreign minister, will lead the delegation,
Samaras will have advance phone talks with EU counterparts,
according to a statement from his office.
He spoke with U.S. President  Barack Obama  today.  Samaras and Rapanos’s twin illnesses have meant a visit by
the international creditors to determine how far Greece has
slipped behind on the budget targets that underpin access to the
international funds was also suspended. The results of that
visit are expected to be instrumental for Greek plans to push
creditors to extend fiscal deadlines under the country’s bailout
program by at least two years.  Coalition partner Democratic Left leader Fotis Kouvelis
said he, Samaras and socialist leader  Evangelos Venizelos  will
travel to Brussels when Samaras, 61, recovers.  Negotiations  “We have agreed that after the premier’s convalescence we
will all go to Brussels, to all  Europe , to negotiate and
primarily argue for those issues which we have agreed in the
policy statement,” Kouvelis said after a meeting with Venizelos
in  Athens  today in which Samaras participated by phone.  The government affirmed its commitment to the need to
reduce deficits, control debt and implement the structural
reforms the country needs, according to a policy document drawn
up by the three parties and released on June 23. It set out a
series of measures that should be changed to alleviate the
country’s economic downturn, now in its fifth year.  Foreign Minister Dimitris Avramopoulos will also attend the
EU summit, accompanied by caretaker Finance Minister Giorgios Zanias, Alternate Finance Minister Christos Staikouras and
Development Minister Kostis Hatzidakis. Zanias is a possible
candidate to take on the finance post for the coalition
government, Athens-based newspaper Imerisia said
today on its website, without citing anyone.  The visit by the so-called troika, comprised of officials
from the EU,  European Central Bank  and  International Monetary
Fund , was due to have begun today. A vote of confidence in the
government needs to be requested within 15 days of the swearing
in of the prime minister on June 20.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maria Petrakis in Athens at 
 mpetrakis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  