-- Venus Williams Defeated by Vesnina in Wimbledon First Round
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-06-25T14:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/li-na-joins-stosur-in-advancing-to-second-round-of-wimbledon.html
Five-time champion  Venus Williams 
lost in her opening match at Wimbledon to Russia’s Elena Vesnina, the first time since 1997 that the American hasn’t made
it to the second round of the tennis tournament.  Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic advanced to the
second round by overcoming Spain’s Juan Carlos Ferrero in
straight sets.  Vesnina defeated the 32-year-old American 6-1, 6-3 on the
opening day of the championships. The Russian had lost in the
first round in nine of her last 10 Grand Slam appearances.  Williams was unseeded at Wimbledon for the first time since
her 1997 debut at the All England Club in southwest  London .
She’s struggled with an energy-sapping immune disease, Sjogren’s
syndrome, since last year. In May, she lost in the second round
of the French Open in her first Grand Slam tournament since her
diagnosis.  Former French Open champion Li Na and U.S. Open title
holder Sam Stosur advanced to the second round with straight-set
victories.  China’s Li, the No. 11 seed, beat Ksenia Pervak of
Kazakhstan 6-3, 6-1. Li last year became the first Asian to win
a Grand Slam singles title when she won at  Roland Garros .  Australia’s Stosur, seeded No. 5, defeated Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain 6-1, 6-3. It’s the first time she has been past
the first round at Wimbledon since 2009.  Djokovic beat Ferrero 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 on Centre Court, where
he’s followed by women’s top seed  Maria Sharapova  against
Anastasia Rodionova. Six-time champion  Roger Federer  takes on
Spain’s Albert Ramos and four-time Grand Slam title holder  Kim Clijsters  will play former top-ranked Jelena Jankovic.  Djokovic and 2003 French Open champion Ferrero had split
their earlier two matches, with the Spaniard winning when they
played on clay. The Serb, trying to be the first man to retain
the Wimbledon title since Federer in 2007, is going for his
sixth Grand Slam championship.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  