-- Libor Guardians Said to Resist Changes to Broken Rate
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   G a v i n   F i n c h
-- 2012-06-28T08:23:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/libor-guardians-said-to-resist-changes-to-broken-benchmark-rate.html
(Corrects spelling of lecturer’s name in 16th paragraph in
story published June 26.)  The U.K. bankers and regulators
charged with reviewing Libor in the wake of regulatory probes
are resisting calls to overhaul the rate because structural
changes risk invalidating trillions of dollars of contracts.  The group, established by the  British Bankers’ Association 
in March after probes into allegations that traders rigged the
 London  interbank offered rate, may propose a code of conduct for
banks and impose greater scrutiny of Libor’s  correlation  with
other financial data over time, according to three people with
knowledge of the discussions who asked not to be identified
because the talks are private. It won’t propose structural
changes such as basing the rate on actual trades or taking away
oversight of the benchmark from the BBA, the people said.  Libor is determined by a  daily poll  that asks banks to
estimate how much it would cost them to borrow from each other
for different timeframes and in different currencies. Because
banks’ submissions aren’t based on real trades, academics and
lawyers say they are open to manipulation by traders. At least a
dozen firms are being probed by regulators worldwide for
colluding to rig the rate, the benchmark for $350 trillion of
securities.  “I don’t see a significant enhancement to the reputation
of Libor without basing it on actual transactions,” said Rosa
Abrantes-Metz, an economist with Global Economics Group, a New
York-based consultancy, an associate professor with  New York 
University’s Stern School of Business and the co-author of a
2008 paper entitled “ Libor Manipulation? ”  “It would only be disruptive if current quotes are
inaccurate,” so resistance “is suspicious,” she said.  Actual Transactions  A move to a benchmark based on actual transactions could be
gradual, and a change shouldn’t result in major disruption as
long as banks’ submissions reflected their true borrowing costs,
she said.  Some on the committee are arguing that the mechanism for
setting Libor remains sound and any cases of wrongdoing were
isolated, one of the people said. There is broad agreement that
any changes to the rate be incremental, the people said. The
panel is still to reach its final decisions.  Any substantial changes could affect existing contracts
that reference Libor, according to Simon Gleeson, a partner at
law firm Clifford Chance LLP in London. Libor is used in
financial agreements ranging from mortgages and student loans to
swaps.  “There’s a tail of contracts that may take 10, 20, 50
years to run off which use Libor as an undefined term, because
nobody felt it needed defining,” Gleeson said. “The more
changes you make, the more likely it is that somebody will be
able to argue this is a material change to their contract.”  ‘Lingering Change’  The BBA, which has overseen Libor for 26 years, is under
pressure to restore credibility to the rate after regulators
from  Canada  to  Japan  began probing whether traders colluded to
influence the rate to profit from bets on derivatives.  “When the groups involved have reached conclusions about
their proposals to ensure that Libor continues to evolve to meet
the demands of changing markets, they will make full statements
and invite comments from all market participants,” the BBA said
in an e-mailed statement. “There will be a full consultation
with regulators, users and others.”  The BBA set up the steering group in March and said
representatives from banks, exchanges, the U.K. Financial
Services Authority and the British government would serve on it.
They have met monthly and plan to publish recommendations within
the next two months, two of the people said.  ‘Vast’ Effects  “Keeping things as they are would leave a lingering cloud
over the benchmark,” said Daniel Sheard, chief investment
officer of GAM U.K. Ltd., an asset manager that oversees about
$60 billion. “I am yet to hear a valid argument for why it
can’t be based on actual trades. Given the huge number of
transactions that use Libor as a reference, it is very important
to re-establish credibility.”  Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) ,
 Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and  Royal Bank of Scotland Plc  are
among the firms with representatives in the group. All of the
lenders are being investigated as part of probes into Libor.
Officials for the banks declined to comment. The firms have said
in filings they are co-operating with regulators.  Matt Pollard, a spokesman at the U.K. Treasury, declined to
comment, as did Kirsty Clay, a spokeswoman for the Financial
Services Authority.  ‘Index Manipulation’  “Despite its importance, susceptibility to influence, and
the allegations of manipulation, Libor remains essentially
unregulated,” Andrew Verstein, a lecturer at  Yale Law School ,
and  Gabriel Rauterberg , an attorney at New York law firm Cooley
LLP, said in a paper published in April. “The effects of index
manipulation could be vast.”  Libor is derived from a survey of London banks conducted
each day by  Thomson Reuters  Corp. on behalf of the BBA.
Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
Thomson Reuters in selling financial and legal information and
trading systems.  Lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow
from each other for 15 different periods, from overnight to one
year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss
francs. After a set number of quotes are excluded, those
remaining are averaged and published for each currency by the
BBA before noon.  Three-month dollar Libor was unchanged at 0.461 percent
today. The comparable rate in euros slipped to 0.556 percent.  ‘Ingredients’ There  “Regardless of who is to blame or whether manipulation
went on, all the ingredients are there for it,” said NYU’s
Abrantes-Metz. As well as basing the rate on actual trades, she
suggested increasing the number of banks that are surveyed and
making the submissions anonymous. Individual banks’ submissions
are at present published daily.  One option would be for the BBA to create a new benchmark
for contracts in the future and continue to publish Libor using
the existing method while outstanding contracts wind down,
Gleeson and Abrantes-Metz said.  It’s the third time the BBA has revisited Libor in four
years. In  December 2008 , it created two new sub-committees to
oversee the rate amid concern that some banks lowballed their
borrowing costs to avoid the perception they were struggling in
the wake of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s failure. Lenders
were also asked to justify any discrepancies between their
submissions and those of their competitors. In February 2011 it
increased the number of banks on the dollar Libor panel to 20
from 16.  ‘Cosmetic Changes’  Those changes failed to stem suggestions that the rate was
vulnerable to abuse. At least nine regulators in the U.S.
Canada,  Europe  and  Asia  are looking into whether traders
colluded to rig Libor.  Traders interviewed by Bloomberg in March at three firms
said they were given no guidance on how Libor should be set and
there were no so-called Chinese walls preventing contact between
the treasury staff charged with submitting the rate and traders
who stood to profit on where Libor was set each day. They
regularly discussed where Libor would be set with their
colleagues and their counterparts at other firms, they said.  “Sadly the response looks to be very consistent with the
response of policy makers to the banking disasters we’ve seen
over the last four years -- cosmetic changes, but nothing
substantial happens,” said Richard Werner, a finance professor
at the University of Southampton. “It’s insufficient and
doesn’t really go to the heart of the problem.”  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  