-- Encana Starts Probe After Chesapeake E-Mails Report
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   J e r e m y   v a n   L o o n
-- 2012-06-26T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/michigan-agency-evaluates-chesapeake-encana-report.html
Encana Corp. (ECA) ,  Canada ’s biggest
natural gas producer by volume, is investigating a news report
of e-mails between it and  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  regarding
land-lease bidding in Michigan.  The e-mails included an exchange between Chesapeake Chief
Executive Officer  Aubrey McClendon  and a company vice president
referring to a call with Encana to discuss oil and gas leases
being auctioned off in northern Michigan in 2010, according to
Reuters, which didn’t state from where it obtained the e-mails.  Encana, based in Calgary, “immediately initiated” an
investigation of the allegations, David O’Brien, chairman of the
company’s board of directors, said yesterday in a statement.
“Encana therefore will not provide any further information at
this time,” he said.  The e-mails include discussions between the companies about
of divvying up Michigan counties for an October 2010 auction of
state-held land leases with Encana bidding on some and
Chesapeake on others, according to the Reuters report, which
paraphrased those e-mails.  McClendon said in one internal e-mail in June 2010 that the
company needed to “smoke a peace pipe” with  Encana (ECA)  to prevent
the rivals from “bidding each other up,” Reuters said.  One e-mail from a Chesapeake vice president sent in June
2010 to an Encana vice president suggested each company would
have “the option of acquiring 50 percent of the acreage
acquired by the other,” Reuters said. This e-mail was also sent
to McClendon and to Jeff Wojahn,  president  of Encana’s U.S.
division, according to the story.  Arranging’ Strategy  As the October auction date approached, Wojahn and
McClendon were e-mailing each other directly, Reuters said.
Wojahn referred in an Oct. 20, 2010, e-mail to Encana and
Chesapeake executives working on “arranging a bidding
strategy,” according to Reuters.  Chesapeake dropped the “joint-bid strategy,” according to
a subsequent e-mail reported by Reuters. Average winning bids
for the leases dropped from $1,413 an acre in a similar state
auction in May 2010 to $46 per acre in the October auction,
Reuters said, citing its own analysis.  The Michigan Department of Natural Resources also is
“evaluating” the Reuters report citing the e-mails, a
department spokesman said.  “We’re evaluating the information,” Ed Golder, a
spokesman for the department, said yesterday in an interview.
“We’re very much interested in the auction process and assuring
fair market value.”  Attorney General  The department also asked the state attorney general to
review the matter, Golder said. There is no formal
investigation, he said. Joy Yearout, a spokeswoman for Michigan
Attorney General Bill Schuette, said she couldn’t confirm or
deny whether there was an investigation.  Chesapeake, based in  Oklahoma City , denied any collusion
with Encana over bidding for Michigan leases.  “While there were discussions between Encana and
Chesapeake in 2010 about forming an ‘area of mutual interest’
joint venture (an ‘AMI’) regarding leases in Michigan, no such
agreement was reached between the parties and no AMI was
formed,” Jim Gipson, a Chesapeake spokesman, said yesterday in
an e-mail.  “Nor did Encana and Chesapeake make any joint bids,”
Gipson said. “Chesapeake has invested approximately
$400 million to acquire leases in Michigan.”  Chesapeake fell 8.5 percent to $17.03 yesterday in  New
York . Encana fell 3.7 percent to C$19.61 yesterday in Toronto.  Vulnerable  Chesapeake and Encana may be vulnerable to government
action even if they were only talking about engaging in a joint
venture, said Darren Bush, professor at the University of
Houston Law Center and a former federal prosecutor in the
 Justice Department ’s antitrust division. “The joint venture
would have to revolve around something other than lowering
prices,” he said.  “If they’re divvying up markets or agreeing that only one
company will make a bid, that’s bid-rigging or naked price-
fixing,” Bush said in a phone interview.  “Given the nature of the documents, it would be hard to
walk away from this,” he said. “They’re likely to settle.”  Encana operates in the U.S. in states including Texas and
 Colorado , as well as the Collingwood shale area in Michigan. The
company has interests in 2.4 million acres of land across the
country, of which 1.9 million acres are undeveloped.  2009 Spinoff  Encana spun off its oil operations, which then formed
 Cenovus Energy Inc. (CVE) , in 2009. Natural gas, used for heating and
cooking, has since fallen to decade-low prices as demand
stagnates and supply surges, helped by hydraulic fracturing
technology.  Last week, Encana said it will spend $600 million more this
year to develop so-called liquids-rich wells, which produce
butane and other higher-priced fossil fuels, to help offset low
gas prices. The company’s shares have gained 3.8 percent this
year.  Encana CEO Randy Eresman said on June 21 during a
presentation to analysts that the company is trying to sell a
joint venture stake in its U.S. portfolio. That may include “a
possible interest” in the Tuscaloosa, Eaglebine, Mississippi
Lime as well as Collingwood and Utica formations, he said at the
time.  In  Michigan , where Encana is targeting the combined Utica
and Collingwood formations, the company holds 432,000
undeveloped net acres, said Wojahn, who heads the company’s U.S.
operations, at the same presentation. In 2011, Encana drilled
two horizontal wells into the Utica/Collingwood formations, he
said.  Encana is planning to drill five to seven additional wells
in 2012 and it has also initiated the process of seeking joint
venture partners to further develop the company’s land position
in the U.S., Wojahn said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Jeremy van Loon in Calgary at 
 jvanloon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  