-- Microsoft Agrees to Acquire Yammer for $1.2 Billion in Cash
-- B y   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-06-25T21:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/microsoft-agrees-to-acquire-yammer-for-1-2-billion-in-cash.html
Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  agreed to buy
corporate social-network operator Yammer Inc. for $1.2 billion
in cash to help it woo businesses with Facebook-like tools that
help employees collaborate in the workplace.  San Francisco-based Yammer will become part of Microsoft’s
Office division and the team will continue to report to current
Yammer Chief Executive Officer David Sacks, the companies said
today in a statement.  Yammer provides features -- similar to those found on
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  -- to more than 200,000 companies such as Ford
Motor Co. and  EBay Inc. (EBAY)  The purchase will help Microsoft compete
with corporate-social features like  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM) ’s
Chatter product, as well as startups such as  Jive Software Inc. (JIVE) 
and Asana Inc., run by Facebook co-founder Dustin Moskovitz.  “They’ve been behind in terms of social, and this puts
them in a really strong position, perhaps even the lead,” said
Rob Koplowitz, an  analyst  at  Forrester Research Inc. (FORR)  “There are
a lot of communications that are being generated by social.”  Yammer was founded in 2008 by Sacks, the former chief
operating officer at PayPal Inc., and Adam Pisoni, who currently
serves as chief technology officer. It has raised more than $140
million in funding from venture firms, including Charles River
Ventures Inc. and Emergence Capital Partners.  Office, SharePoint  Microsoft, based in Redmond,  Washington , will add Yammer’s
corporate-social networking tools to its Office and SharePoint
software products for businesses. Large information-technology
companies are snapping up nimbler startups, sometimes before
they reach an initial public offering, spending $17.4 billion on
enterprise software acquisitions in 2011, compared with $715.5
million in 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Besides integrating Yammer into existing products,
Microsoft will continue to offer it as a standalone service,
Office Division President Kurt DelBene said on a conference
call. The deal is likely to be completed in the third quarter.  While DelBene couldn’t say when Yammer features would
appear in Microsoft’s Office 365 cloud-based applications or in
SharePoint, he said that the cloud apps get updated quarterly,
or even monthly in some cases.  Yammer works with Apple Inc.’s iPhone and Google Inc.’s
Android and that will continue under Microsoft, the companies
said. The software gives companies a private way to help
employees communicate. For example, supermarket chain  Supervalu
Inc. (SVU)  uses it to let sales people talk and share ideas.  Sacks will become a vice president in the Office division.
Yammer will keep its San Francisco office and employees, he said
in an interview.  Sacks ‘Committed’  “Both I and my co-founder are committed to staying at the
new company and continuing to run Yammer for a long time to
come,” Sacks said.  Yammer was advised by  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners
LLC, according to a person with knowledge of the matter, who
asked not to be identified because the information hasn’t been
made public. Business Insider previously  reported  Qatalyst’s
involvement.  The Yammer deal follows other recent enterprise-software
purchases centered on social media. Salesforce.com will gain
social-marketing tools through its $745 million agreement to
purchase Buddy Media Inc. earlier this month, and  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) 
recently announced plans to buy two companies that analyze data
on social-media sites. Those are Vitrue Inc. and Collective
Intellect Inc.  Microsoft shares fell 2.7 percent to $29.87 at the close in
 New York . The  stock  has gained 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  