-- Life Sentences for Young Murderers Limited by High Court
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r   a n d   S e t h   S t e r n
-- 2012-06-25T16:57:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/life-sentences-for-young-murderers-limited-by-high-court-1-.html
A divided U.S.  Supreme Court  ruled
that states can’t impose mandatory life-without-parole sentences
on juveniles who are convicted of taking part in a murder.  The justices, voting 5-4, said states violate the
constitutional ban on cruel and unusual punishment when they
don’t allow for the option of a shorter sentence.  “By making youth (and all that accompanies it) irrelevant
to imposition of that harshest prison sentence, such a scheme
poses too great a risk of disproportionate punishment,” Justice
 Elena Kagan  wrote for the court.  Juvenile sentencing has been an area of concern for the
nation’s highest court over the past decade. In 2005, the court
outlawed the death penalty for juveniles, saying their lack of
maturity made them “categorically less culpable than the
average criminal.” In 2010, the court extended that reasoning
to bar life-without-parole sentences for youths convicted of a
crime other than murder.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat and chairman of
the Senate Judiciary Committee, said in a statement that he
supported the decision because “as a former prosecutor I believe
in strong and appropriate sentences for serious crimes, but I
also believe that children are different from adults and should
be treated differently under the law.”  The justices ruled today in two cases. One involved Evan
Miller, who was 14 at the time he killed his neighbor, Cole
Cannon, in Lawrence County,  Alabama , in 2003. Prosecutors said
Miller and an accomplice robbed and beat Cannon before setting
his trailer on fire and killing him in the process.  Violent Family  The second case concerned Kuntrell Jackson, who was
convicted for his role in the 1999 shooting death of a video-
store clerk during a robbery in Blytheville,  Arkansas . Jackson,
who had turned 14 less than a month earlier, said he served only
as the lookout in the attempted heist and that another boy fired
the fatal shot.  Jackson didn’t learn his friend was carrying a gun until
they were on their way to the video store and “his age could
well have affected his calculation of the risk that posed, as
well as his willingness to walk away at that point,” Kagan
wrote. Also relevant was Jackson’s “family background and
immersion in violence,” Kagan wrote. Both his mother and
grandmother had previously shot other individuals.  “Under these schemes, every juvenile will receive the same
sentence as every other -- the 17-year-old and the 14-year-old,
the shooter and the accomplice, the child from a stable
household and the child from a chaotic and abusive one,” Kagan
wrote for the majority.  Dissenting Opinion  The majority incorrectly invoked the Eighth Amendment’s bar
on cruel and unusual punishment against a punishment that’s not
unusual, Chief Justice  John Roberts  wrote in a dissent joined by
Justices Antonin Scalia,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito .  Almost 2,500 prisoners are serving life-without-parole
sentences for murders committed before age 18, Roberts said.  “Put simply, if a 17-year-old is convicted of deliberately
murdering an innocent victim, it is not ’unusual’ for the
murderer to receive a mandatory sentence of life without
parole,” Roberts wrote. “That reality should preclude finding
that mandatory  life imprisonment  for juvenile killers violates
the Eighth Amendment.”  Thirty-eight states, along with the federal government,
have laws that permit life-without-parole sentences for youthful
murderers. Even so, those sentences are rare for the youngest
offenders. Miller and Jackson are among 79 people serving life-
without-parole sentences for crimes committed at age 13 or 14,
according to their lawyers.  ’Arrogation’ of Authority  Barring states and the  U.S. Congress  from imposing
mandatory life-without-parole sentences on any category of
juveniles is an “arrogation of legislative authority,” Alito
wrote in a separate dissent joined by Scalia.  “Even a 17 1/2-year-old who sets off a bomb in a crowded
mall or guns down a dozen students and teachers is a ’child’ and
must be given a chance to persuade a judge to permit his release
into society,” Alito wrote.  The cases are Miller v. Alabama, 10-9646, and Jackson v.
Hobbs, 10-9647.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net ;
Seth Stern in Washington at 
 sstern14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  