-- Liffe to Start Warehouse Delivery Rates After Complaints
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-25T15:44:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/liffe-to-start-warehouse-delivery-rates-after-complaints.html
NYSE Liffe will implement new rules
to accelerate warehouse deliveries of robusta coffee traded on
the exchange in  London  after companies including Armajaro
Trading Ltd. complained about delays.  Warehouses storing as much as 30,000 metric tons will have
to deliver at least 250 tons per working day, the exchange said
in a  notice  dated June 22. Those holding more will have to
deliver 500 tons a day. The changes will become effective with
the delivery of the September contract, which expires Sept. 28.
A “surprisingly low” rate of deliveries was curbing the
industry’s access to inventories, London-based broker Marex
Spectron Group said in a report in November.  “It seems exaggerated to jump from 250 tons a day to 500
tons a day but we’ve been aware that the changes would happen
for some time and we will comply with the rules,” Antonio
Garcez, chief executive officer at Pacorini Group, owner of
warehouses that store coffee, said today by phone from Trieste,
 Italy . “At the moment, it doesn’t make a difference for most as
only two warehouses have more than 30,000 tons.”  The European Coffee Federation, whose members include Kraft
Foods Europe Ltd. and  Sara Lee Corp. (SLE) , wrote to NYSE Liffe last
year to discuss delivery speeds, according to Roel Vaessen, the
secretary general of the group. Warehouses usually keep
deliveries to 200 tons a day, he said.  The delays resulted in Armajaro, a London-based supplier of
sugar, cocoa and coffee, lodging a complaint with the
competition authority in  Belgium  against Port Real Estate NV,
owner of the Wilmarsdonk warehouse in Antwerp.  Positive Development  The adoption of minimum load-out rates is “a step in the
right direction,” said Angus Kerr, owner of trading company
Coffee ag in Cobham,  England , and a member of the logistics
committee of the British Coffee Association. The European Coffee
Federation considered the move “a very positive development,”
Vaessen said in an e-mail response to questions. He added that
the coffee group would continue to monitor the implementation of
the rules “with great interest.”  “I imagine industry will continue to hammer on Liffe’s
door to get warehouses to increase the load-out rate,” Coffee
ag’s Kerr said. “It is financially beneficial for warehouses to
store for Liffe so any increase on the movement out should be
able to be accommodated.”  The delivery rates will apply to certified robusta coffee
to be transported for use as well as to the transfer of beans
between depots, NYSE Liffe said. Movement of beans to be used
will be prioritized over warehouse transfers, it said. Any order
to load out shall be made in writing, according to the notice.  Raising Costs  The introduction of delivery rates may raise costs for
warehouse keepers, according to Pacorini’s Garcez.  “If demand in the market continues as it is now, costs for
warehouse keepers may increase as more employees could be
needed,” Garcez said.  “When you consider the situation where a warehouse
contains 30,000 tons of coffee, it could take 120 days, or 4
months, to remove all the coffee,” said  Jonathan Parkman , co-
head of agriculture at broker Marex Spectron. “That does not
seem be commensurate with the concept of delivery periods.”  Minimum movement delivery rates for cocoa will be
introduced “in due course and published by notice,” NYSE Liffe
said in the notice.  “The issue has been greater in coffee than in cocoa in the
past,” Parkman said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  