-- Highland to Remain Manager of Liberty CLO After Lawsuit
-- B y   K r i s t e n   H a u n s s
-- 2012-06-25T21:04:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/highland-capital-to-remain-manager-of-liberty-clo-after-lawsuit.html
Highland Capital Management LP will
continue to manage a $921 million collateralized loan obligation
after  Citigroup Inc. (C)  tried to have the firm replaced by Babson
Capital Management LLC.  The Dallas-based firm exercised a provision in the Liberty
CLO’s indenture allowing it to buy some of the riskiest
portions, or the so-called equity piece, of the fund from Babson
and Citigroup. In April Highland sued Citigroup, the underwriter
of the 2005 deal, to stop its removal.  Highland “is pleased to announce that it will continue as
portfolio manager for Liberty CLO following the June 13
completion of $74.2 million buyout-of Liberty Class E
certificates pursuant to Liberty’s portfolio management
agreement,” Mark Okada, co-founder and chief investment officer
of Highland, which has about $20 billion in assets, said in a
statement provided to Bloomberg News. “Highland looks forward
to continuing its management of Liberty CLO for the benefit of
all investors.”  CLOs are a type of collateralized debt obligation that pool
high-yield, high-risk loans and slice them into securities of
varying risk and return.  Scott Helfman, a Citigroup spokesman, and David Coburn, a
spokesman for Babson, declined to comment.  In May 2011 Citigroup approached Highland, founded in 1993
by Okada and James Dondero, about liquidating the fund, Highland
said in a April 5 court filing in Dallas County,  Texas . Some
CLOs allow a deal to be called if the majority of the investors
in the so-called equity portion vote to do so.  Citigroup Gains  Citigroup would have made gains from the transaction as it
had purchased positions in the fund at a heavily discounted
price, according to Highland’s suit.  “Citi’s requested liquidation would have violated the
terms of the agreement and adversely impacted the interests of
the other certificate holders,” according to the complaint.  After Highland refused to liquidate the fund, Citigroup
sought to remove the firm and replace it with Babson, which also
owned a piece of the CLO’s riskiest portion, according to the
filing.  Citigroup, the largest arranger of CLOs backed by widely
syndicated loans in the U.S. this year, and its predecessors
arranged at least five cash-flow CLOs for Highland.  -- With assistance from  David McLaughlin  in  New York . Editors:
Faris Khan, Chapin Wright  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristen Haunss in New York at 
 khaunss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  