-- Indian Stocks Drop as Rupee-Support Measures Trail Expect
-- B y   S a n t a n u   C h a k r a b o r t y   a n d   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-06-25T12:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/india-stock-futures-drop-as-debt-concerns-counter-rupee.html
Indian stocks dropped for a second
day, erasing earlier gains, after steps taken by the government
to arrest a slide in the rupee fell short of expectations.  State Bank of India , the nation’s largest lender, slid to a
one-week low, pacing losses among its peers.  Oil & Natural Gas
Corp. (ONGC) , the biggest explorer, declined the most since June 1. The
BSE India  Sensitive Index (SENSEX) , or Sensex, lost 0.5 percent to
16,882.16 at close in Mumbai.  The ownership ceiling on  government bonds  was increased by
$5 billion to $20 billion, the central bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. Slowing economic growth, weak public finances,
elevated consumer prices and the risk of rating downgrades have
made the rupee Asia’s worst-performing major currency this year
and put the Sensex on course for its first quarterly retreat
since the three-month period ended in December.  “Money will come in when people find it attractive to put
up capital, for which we need reforms to boost economic growth
rather than measures to boost flows,” Sandip Sabharwal, chief
executive officer of portfolio management services at Prabhudas
Lilladher Pvt. in Mumbai, said by phone. “Markets were holding
up in expectation of positive announcements on reforms. Nothing
of that sort happened and the markets sold off.”  Offshore investors have cut  holdings  of domestic bonds by
$1.2 billion from a record $31.5 billion reached on Feb. 29 and
 pulled out  $273 million from stocks in May, a second month of
net sales, as economic growth slowed to a near-decade low in the
three months ended March, data from the regulator show.  Investment-Grade Rating  The withdrawals fueled the rupee’s slide this year, and the
weak currency has undermined efforts by the government to limit
inflation and pare the fiscal deficit.  Fitch Ratings  last week
joined  Standard & Poor’s  in saying that India could lose its
investment-grade status. Moody’s Investors Service today held
its stable outlook, saying the slowdown in growth and
investments is likely to be temporary.  Today’s measures “may only help stabilize the rupee but
flows will take longer to materialize,” Aneesh Srivastava, who
oversees about $470 million as chief investment officer at IDBI
Federal Life Insurance Co., said by phone from Mumbai. “The
measures are slightly disappointing. The market expected more.”  The rupee gained 0.2 percent to 57.0150 per dollar at the 5
p.m. close, paring an intraday gain of 1.3 percent. It fell to
an all-time low of 57.3275 on June 22.  The Sensex has still risen 9 percent this year, helped by a
record $8.5 billion of flows this year into stocks. The gauge
trades at 13.2 times estimated earnings, near a three-year low
of 12.4 times set on May 23. The MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index
trades at 9.9 times.  ‘Properly Bearish’  Finance Minister  Pranab Mukherjee , the ruling Congress
party’s nominee for president, will resign from his current post
tomorrow and file his nomination on June 28, Congress party
General Secretary Janardan Dwivedi told reporters today, without
naming the successor. A group of federal and state legislators
elects the next president July 19.  “Let us see what the new finance minister does and give
the government a few months,” said  Samir Arora , founder of
Singapore-based hedge fund Helios Capital Management Pte., which
focuses its investments on India, in an interview to Bloomberg
UTV today. “If they don’t do anything, then we can be properly
bearish.”  State Bank  declined 2 percent to 2,115 rupees. ICICI Bank
Ltd. fell 0.6 percent to 846.9 rupees.  HDFC Bank Ltd. (HDFCB)  dropped
1.4 percent to 536.7 rupees.  ONGC fell 2.5 percent to 272.6 rupees.  Hero Motocorp Ltd. (HMCL) ,
the biggest two-wheeler manufacturer, decreased the most in
seven weeks, losing 2.7 percent to 2030.8 rupees.  Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) , the biggest maker of  wind turbines ,
gained 2 percent to 17.8 rupees after it agreed to sell its
Chinese manufacturing arm to China Power (Tianjin) New Energy
Development Co. for $60 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Santanu Chakraborty in Mumbai at 
 schakrabor11@bloomberg.net ;
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  