-- India Boosts Foreign Debt Cap by $5 Billion to Defend Rupee
-- B y   V .   R a m a k r i s h n a n
-- 2012-06-25T10:08:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/india-boosts-foreign-debt-ceiling-by-5-billion-to-defend-rupee.html
India  has increased the amount of
rupee-denominated debt overseas investors can own to arrest a
slide in the  currency,  which sank to a record low on June 22.  The ownership ceiling on government bonds was raised by $5
billion to $20 billion, the central bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. Long-term investors such as sovereign-wealth
funds, multilateral agencies, endowment, insurance and pension
funds as well as foreign central banks will be allowed to buy
the securities, the  Reserve Bank of India  said in the statement.
The combined limit on sovereign and corporate debt was last
increased to $60 billion from $50 billion in November.  “Overall it’s positive as the higher limit means more
demand for  government bonds ,” said Krishnamurthy Harihar, a
Mumbai-based treasurer at FirstRand Ltd. “But there is some
disappointment over how far the measures go.”  The move is intended to shore up  Asia ’s worst-performing
major currency this year. Slowing economic growth, weak public
finances, accelerating inflation and the risk of rating
downgrades have contributed to a 21 percent decline in the rupee
over the past year. Global funds raised their  holdings  of Indian
notes by $4.2 billion this year to $30.3 billion, according to
Securities & Exchange Board of India data.  The rupee pared gains to trade 0.4 percent stronger at
56.9075 per dollar as of 3:33 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. It was up by as much as 1.3 percent
earlier, rebounding from an all-time low of 57.3275. The
currency has lost 6.6 percent in 2012.  Moody’s Maintains Outlook  Asia’s third-largest economy expanded 5.3 percent in the
three months through March, the least in nine years, according
to government data.  Reserve Bank  of India Governor Duvvuri
Subbarao unexpectedly left  interest rates  unchanged last week
and said inflation was still above “tolerance level”.
Mukherjee wants to reduce the fiscal deficit to 5.1 percent of
gross domestic product in the financial year that began April 1,
from 5.76 percent last year.  Fitch Ratings  last week joined  Standard & Poor’s  in
signaling that the nation’s rating is at risk of demotion to
junk status. Fitch lowered its outlook on India’s BBB- ranking,
its lowest investment grade, to negative from stable, citing a
deteriorating growth outlook and limited progress on paring the
 budget deficit . S&P and Moody’s Investors Service also assign
India their lowest investment-grade levels.  Moody’s reaffirmed its stable outlook on India’s Baa3
rating today, saying the slowdown in growth and investment is
likely to be temporary.  “Certain recent negative trends -- such as lower growth,
slowing investment and poor business sentiment -- are unlikely
to become permanent or even medium-term features of the Indian
economy,” Moody’s said in a statement today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
V. Ramakrishnan in Mumbai at 
 rvenkatarama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  