-- BP Sells Wyoming Gas Assets to Linn Energy for $1.03 Billion
-- B y   J e s s i c a   R e s n i c k - A u l t   a n d   B r i a n   S w i n t
-- 2012-06-25T20:03:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/linn-energy-to-buy-bp-s-jonah-field-acreage-for-1-03-billion.html
BP Plc (BP/) , the energy producer that’s
disposing of assets to help pay for the 2010  Gulf of Mexico  oil
spill, agreed to sell its stake in Wyoming natural-gas fields to
 Linn Energy LLC (LINE)  for $1.03 billion.  The deal, which includes the Jonah and Pinedale operations,
brings BP’s divestitures to about $24 billion since the start of
2010, with the target remaining at $38 billion by the end of
next year, the London-based company said in a statement today.
The sale includes proved reserves equivalent to about 730
billion cubic feet of gas.  “This sale will allow us to realize the value of the
mature Jonah assets and reinvest in higher growth opportunities
in BP’s North America gas business and elsewhere,” Bob Dudley,
BP’s chief executive officer, said in a statement. It’s the
second time this year that Houston-based Linn has reached an
agreement to buy fields from BP.  BP is selling assets after setting aside about $37 billion
to pay for the 2010 explosion at its Macondo well in the Gulf of
Mexico, the biggest offshore  oil spill  in U.S. history. The
company said June 1 that it plans to sell its half of TNK-BP,
the Russian venture that accounts for about a quarter of its
global output. It also plans to sell two refineries in the U.S.
by the end of the year.  This is the fourth acquisition this year by Linn, which was
formed by Michael C. Linn and private-equity firm Quantum Energy
Partners in 2003. The company bought BP properties in  Kansas  for
$1.2 billion in March. Linn has announced the most U.S.
exploration and production purchases in 2012, with four
transactions valued at $2.4 billion, including the agreement
today.  Fourfold Increase  For Linn, which has  increased production  more than fourfold
in the past five years, the  Wyoming  properties are expected to
add the equivalent of 145 million cubic feet a day of gas
production, the company said in a separate statement. The field
holds 73 percent gas, 23 percent natural gas liquids and 4
percent oil.  BP fell 1.3 percent to 402.05 pence at the close. Linn fell
2.4 percent to $35.22 at the close in  New York , the biggest
decline since Feb. 3.  “This acquisition provides Linn with a significant
operated position in the Green River Basin of Wyoming and the
opportunity to add employees to our staff who have hands-on
experience with operations in the Jonah Field,” said Linn
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mark Ellis.  Linn IPO  Linn has hedged 100 percent of the expected production from
the field for approximately six years through 2017. It expects
the purchase to close by July 31 and plans to finance the
acquisition with proceeds from borrowings under its revolving
credit facility.  Barclays Plc, BMO Capital Markets and RBC Richardson Barr
were Linn’s financial advisers on the purchase.  Separately, Linn filed with the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission today seeking to sell shares in a new
company that will hold its stock and help it raise money for
acquisitions. The new entity, Linn Co LLC, will be taxed as a
corporation, giving it access to funds from institutional
investors who currently don’t buy Linn Energy because of its
partnership status.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jessica Resnick-Ault in New York at 
 jresnickault@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Swint in London at 
 bswint@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  