-- Intelligence Polygraph Exams Will Probe Leaks, Clapper Says
-- B y   L a r r y   L i e b e r t
-- 2012-06-25T19:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/intelligence-polygraph-exams-will-ask-about-leaks-clapper-says.html
Polygraph tests used by U.S.
intelligence agencies must include a question about unauthorized
disclosures of classified information, Director of National
Intelligence James Clapper said.  The question is intended to track down leaks, and it will
be mandated at agencies from the Central Intelligence Agency and
the National Security Agency to the  Federal Bureau  of
Investigation, Clapper said today in an e-mailed statement.  Among recent unauthorized disclosures were that the U.S.
and  Israel  created the Stuxnet computer virus that damaged
 Iran ’s nuclear centrifuges, that President  Barack Obama 
personally approves targets for drone attacks, and that a plot
by al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula to bomb a U.S.-bound
airliner was foiled because intelligence officials had
infiltrated the terrorist group.  “It is my sincere hope that others across the government
will follow our lead,” Clapper said. “It is the right thing to
do on behalf of the American people and in the interest of our
national security.”  While lawmakers of both parties have expressed concern
about the leaks, Republicans have blamed White House officials,
not the intelligence agencies, for disclosures they say may
burnish Obama’s national-security credentials ahead of the
November election.  ‘The Worst’  “It’s really the worst I’ve ever seen,” Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the senior Republican on the Senate Armed
Services Committee, said at a Bloomberg Government defense
conference on June 21. “It’s very clear that the highest level
of the administration was involved in this,” based on news
reports and books that cited senior administration officials as
sources.  Obama has denied that White House officials leaked
classified information, calling the notion that they would do so
“offensive.”  Attorney General Eric Holder has named two U.S. attorneys
to investigate the leaks.  In today’s announcement, Clapper also said the intelligence
community’s inspector general will lead an independent
investigation of certain unauthorized disclosures when the
 Justice Department  decides not to prosecute.  Calling Clapper’s actions a “good first step,”
Representative Mike Rogers, the Michigan Republican who heads
the House intelligence committee, said in a statement today,
“The parade of recent leaks requires action. We must break this
culture of unauthorized disclosures.”  Rogers also said the Republican and Democratic leaders of
the congressional intelligence committees are working together
on “legislative options to deter and detect leaks of classified
information, and to hold leakers accountable.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Larry Liebert in Washington at 
 lliebert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  