-- Investment Banks Seek Business in Patent Deals as M&A Work Slows
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o
-- 2012-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/investment-banks-seek-business-in-patent-deals-as-m-a-work-slows.html
Amid the dearth of global mergers
and acquisitions, a handful of investment banks are finding
business advising companies on patent sales.  Lazard Ltd. (LAZ) ,  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  and  Barclays Plc (BARC)  are
banking on a turf typically dominated by lawyers. While global
mergers and acquisitions volume is down 27 percent so far this
year, patent deals have jumped in the past 12 months to $18.8
billion from $450 million the year before, according to
calculations based on data compiled by Bloomberg. The
competition among Apple Inc.,  Google Inc. (GOOG) ,  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  and
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  to dominate the wireless market largely accounts
for the rise.  “Patents have historically been a small, private and
illiquid asset. Now you have money piling in from all kinds of
sources,” said Robert Heath, head of corporate development at
 RPX Corp. (RPXC) , a San Francisco-based firm that buys and licenses
patents.  For technology companies patents have become a valuable
asset to wield against competitors and to defend themselves
against intellectual-property infringement lawsuits. Activist
investors including  Carl Icahn  and hedge fund Starboard Value LP
have been riding the trend, urging companies such as Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and AOL Inc. to extract value from their
patents as well.  ‘Niche Asset’  Until recently, most Wall Street firms stayed on the
sidelines in patent deals because they’ve been “too much of a
niche asset,” said Craig Opperman, partner and intellectual-
property asset specialist at  law firm  DLA Piper LLP. “Lazard,
Evercore and Barclays are the banks that I come across the
most” in patent deals, said Opperman, based in  Palo Alto ,
 California .  Lazard’s specialty is selling patents out of bankruptcy,
honed when it advised Nortel Networks Corp. on its restructuring
after it filed for Chapter 11 protection in 2009.  The Bermuda-based investment bank’s strategy was to first
sell Nortel’s operating assets, making sure not to give away
each asset’s underlying patents, said David Descoteaux, a New
York-based restructuring banker at Lazard. Then it turned to
selling Nortel’s 6,000 patents that are part of the wireless
industry standards for devices, the so-called 4G high speed
technology.  After 18 months of negotiations and an auction, Nortel sold
the patent portfolio last year to a group including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,
Microsoft and Research in Motion Ltd. for $4.5 billion --almost
quintupling Google’s initial offer of $900 million. The patents
fetched a price higher than all of Nortel’s other asset sales
combined.  Advising Google  “Banks are contributing to make the patent market more
liquid by attracting more potential buyers,” said David Berten,
founder and partner of Global IP Law Group LLC, a Chicago-based
law firm, which advised Nortel together with Lazard.  Lazard also advised Google last year when it agreed to buy
100 percent of Motorola for $12.5 billion. The deal was largely
motivated by Google’s desire for Motorola’s patents, after it
lost its chance for Nortel’s. The sale came a month after Icahn
urged Motorola to explore alternatives for its patents.  For Evercore, a New York-based banking boutique, patents
will represent as much as 20 percent of its technology business
this year, up from 5 percent a year ago, said Naveen Nataraj, a
technology banker.  Nortel, AOL  Evercore advised AOL together with Goldman Sachs Group Inc.
when it agreed on April 9 to sell to Microsoft its patent
portfolio for about $1.05 billion, more than triple the $290
million value patent-advisory firm M-Cam Inc. had estimated.
Starboard, with a 5.2 percent stake, had been agitating for an
auction of AOL’s patent.  “The success of the Nortel and AOL patent sales has added
to a growing awareness among large patent holders of the value
trapped in their portfolio of inventions,” said Nataraj.  Unlike the boutique investment banks, London-based Barclays
parlays its  balance sheet  to help patent-licensing companies
raise equity and debt financing. It worked on six patent-related
transactions in 2011 compared with none in the two previous
years.  “Big banks like Barclays can’t ignore the trend because
too much transaction volume is at stake,” said Kirk Kaludis,
who runs its communications technology practice in  Menlo Park ,
California.  Barclays was the lead underwriter on RPX’s $160 million
initial public offering last year. Barclays also placed
privately this year $225 million worth of shares in Acacia
Research Corp., which develops, buys and licenses patented
technologies.  Banker Flops  Bankers have had their flops. Last year, Evercore and
Barclays advised InterDigital Inc., a mobile-phone technology
designer with more than 19,500 patents, on attempts to find a
buyer. InterDigital called off the auction in January as bids
came in lower than expected, according to a person close to the
situation. Evercore alone advised InterDigital when it agreed to
sell  Intel Corp . roughly 1,700 of the patents for $375 million,
InterDigital said on June 18.  Lazard failed to sell 1,100 imaging patents owned by
Eastman Kodak Co. last year as the photography pioneer tried to
avoid bankruptcy. Lazard is again trying to sell the portfolio
for Kodak, which filed for  bankruptcy protection  in January.  Valuing a patent is as much art as science. It varies based
on such factors as the extent of its licensing, the strength of
its validity and its expiration date, said Mike Lasinski,
founding partner of 284 Partners, a patents service firm based
in  Ann Arbor ,  Michigan . Often litigation is the only way to
assess a patent’s value.  To reflect the longer time spent on a patent sale compared
with an average M&A deal, Lazard charges a success-based fee and
a monthly retainer, said Descoteaux. Evercore’s fees are
success-based like those of a normal deal, said Nataraj.  “It’s traditional M&A with a few important tweaks and some
esoteric aspects,” said Nataraj.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Snyder at 
 ksnyder@bloomberg.net  