-- Mirvac Delays Buyback Decision, Plans Queensland Entry
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-06-25T05:28:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/mirvac-delays-buyback-decision-plans-queensland-housing-entry.html
(Corrects to identify Ascendas Pte in third paragraph.)  Mirvac Group (MGR) , which recently raised
more than A$300 million ($301 million) from the sale of its
hotel management business, will delay any share buyback until
market uncertainty stemming from  Europe ’s debt crisis abates.  “It doesn’t take much to put a credit freeze through the
world if Europe, and particularly  Greece , doesn’t sort out its
issues,” Nick Collishaw, managing director of Mirvac, said in
an interview in Sydney on June 22. “We’re holding more cash
than we would ordinarily in more stable times. If the board and
I see overall  market sentiment  picking up and we don’t have uses
for the capital, then a buyback is on the cards.”  Mirvac in May completed the sale of its hotels unit to
Accor Asia Pacific and Ascendas Pte for about A$322 million to
simplify its business. The group is now focusing on office and
retail properties in its investment unit, which makes up 80
percent of its business, while its development division is
concentrating on creating condos, housing communities and
commercial properties, Collishaw said.  Mirvac needs about A$200 million from asset sales to fund
capital expenditure, Collishaw said at the group’s first-half
earnings teleconference on Feb. 21. Above that, the group makes
a “serious commitment” to a buyback, taking into account
economic conditions, its share price and other opportunities, he
said at the time.  As  housing markets  in Sydney,  Brisbane  and  Melbourne  slow,
Mirvac is looking to mining areas in Queensland and Western
 Australia  states for future growth. The company is in early
stages of talks with coal and liquefied natural gas producers
and government bodies in northern Queensland, Collishaw said.  Karratha Project  The talks, about housing the construction workers for
plants and pipelines being built, will be followed in about
three to five years by discussions about longer-term, master-
planned communities, he said.  In Western Australia, Mirvac was named the preferred
developer of the city center of Karratha, the biggest town in
the iron-ore rich Pilbara region, in November in a joint venture
with the local land authority. The A$1.5 billion project, which
will create a new suburb, Mulataga, will accommodate as many as
8,000 people, Collishaw said.  “What’s been happening in the Pilbara and north of
Queensland so far has been one off, ad hoc projects,” he said.
“The debate going on right now in the resource centers and
councils is this is no longer boom-bust style development. We’re
now putting together the infrastructure, the cultural
facilities, you expect to see in the suburb of a city.”  Population Growth  The population of  Western Australia  jumped 14.3 percent in
the five years to 2011, while Queensland’s rose 11 percent,
Census figures released last week showed. The median individual
income surged 32.4 percent in Western Australia and 23.3 percent
in Queensland, they showed.  Mirvac has also entered Perth’s office market, with the
redevelopment of the Old Treasury Building, which is fully
leased to the Western Australian government for 25 years, he
said.  Perth had a vacancy rate of 3.3 percent at the end of
December, as the city saw its third-highest absorption on
record, driven by an unemployment rate of 4.3 percent, according
to  figures  from broker Colliers International. In contrast,
 Sydney ’s vacancy rate was 9.6 percent, and  Melbourne ’s 5.3
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nichola Saminather at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net  