-- Islamist Win Seen as Plus for Egypt Stability -- for Now
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-06-25T01:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/islamist-win-seen-as-plus-for-egypt-stability-for-now.html
The victory of Muslim Brotherhood
candidate Mohamed Mursi in  Egypt ’s presidential election will
re-establish the stability the U.S. seeks in the Middle Eastern
nation, if only temporarily.  While the U.S. welcomed yesterday’s announcement that
Mursi, 60, defeated the military’s pick, Ahmed Shafik, the
election is only the beginning of what’s apt to be a protracted
confrontation between the Sunni Muslim Brotherhood and the more
secular military that will complicate American interests in the
region, according to  Aaron David Miller , a senior fellow at the
Wilson Center, a  Washington  policy group.  “We’re trapped between a rising Islamic current we don’t
trust and a Praetorian military establishment that we don’t like
but we’ll be forced to support for some very good reasons,
including the peace treaty with  Israel ,” Miller said in an
interview. “For Americans, this is the better outcome because
it preserves a balance between the military and the Islamists.
We’re going to have to deal with both of them.”  Mursi’s victory highlights the tension between the Obama
administration’s rhetoric on Egyptian democratic change and
America’s strategic interests in the region. While the
administration supports the “Arab Spring” movement,
longstanding U.S. ties and billions in aid to former president
 Hosni Mubarak ’s autocratic regime helped maintain Egypt’s peace
treaty with Israel and U.S. military access through the  Suez
Canal  to the  Persian Gulf .  Under a civilian Islamic government, the future of those
interests may depend in part on whether and how Egypt’s elected
and military leaders share power. That uncertainty already has
caused friction between Congress and the Obama administration.  ‘Mutual Respect’  President  Barack Obama  congratulated Mursi for securing
51.7 percent of the vote in a telephone call late yesterday and
the two leaders pledged to improve bilateral ties.  Obama “underscored that the  United States  will continue to
support Egypt’s transition to democracy and stand by the
Egyptian people,” according to an e-mailed White House
statement. The president said he would work with Mursi “on the
basis of mutual respect,” and the new Egyptian leader
“expressed appreciation for the call and welcomed U.S. support
for Egypt’s transition,” according to the statement.  Yesterday’s election announcement was preceded by military
moves to consolidate power at the expense of the incoming
president, re-establish martial law and assume the powers of the
legislative branch. A constitution still has to be written,
while Egypt’s courts dissolved parliament last week in a move
that was “clearly a political decision,” said  Marina Ottaway ,
director of the Middle East program at the Carnegie Institute, a
Washington policy group.  Military Aid  Senator  Patrick Leahy , the Vermont Democrat who heads the
budget committee that funds the State Department and foreign
aid, made clear his anger about the military’s actions and
voiced his disapproval of the Obama administration’s decision to
maintain military aid to Egypt. Yesterday, he said that his
stance on continuing the aid will depend on the military.  “The next step is up to the generals and how the
constitution is written,” Leahy said in an e-mail.  The administration wants to see the democratic transition
completed, Carney said. “It is essential for the Egyptian
government to continue to fulfill Egypt’s role as a pillar of
regional peace, security and stability.”  With legislative authority now in the military’s hands,
it’s unlikely any laws or practices the U.S. cares about will
change “anytime soon,” said  David Schenker , director of the
program on Arab politics at the Washington Institute for Near
East Policy.  Domestic Issues  In the short-term, Egypt’s civilian rulers will focus on
domestic issues, including re-establishing security in the  Sinai
Peninsula  and righting Egypt’s devastated economy, he said.  The yield on Egypt’s 5.75 percent dollar bonds due in 2020
soared the most last week since they were sold in April 2010.
The rate jumped 97 basis points to 7.87 percent in the week that
ended June 22, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg. That
included a 52 basis-point surge on the last day of the week.  The Arab country’s five-year credit default risk jumped 68
basis points last week to 723, the highest level since December
2008, according to CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc. and
compiles prices from the privately negotiated market. Egypt is
among the 10 riskiest credits in the world.  Over time, when elections are held again, the Brotherhood
is likely to repeat its success at the ballot box, forcing the
military to relinquish legislative control, Schenker said. That
will put the Islamists in control of foreign policy, potentially
triggering a military backlash and sparking unease in the U.S.
and elsewhere, he said.  ‘Alarming’ Americans  “In the event that the Brotherhood swept into power in
Egypt, that would alarm a large number of Americans and a large
number of U.S. allies in the region,” including the Sunni Gulf
States that distrust Shiite Islamists, and the Israelis, said
 Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East program at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies, a policy group in
Washington. “There would surely be people talking about cutting
off the relationship,” he said, with all the implications that
would have for military access from the Mediterranean to the
Persian Gulf and the Egypt-Israeli peace treaty.  Senator  John Kerry , the Massachusetts Democrat who heads
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said in a statement that
“American concerns about the Muslim Brotherhood’s past
statements and positions are widely shared and well
understood.”  ‘Serious Questions’  While noting “serious questions about the future direction
of Egypt’s foreign policy,” Kerry said “it would be a mistake
for us to pull back from our engagement with a free and
democratic Egypt.”  For now, the military and the Islamists are beginning a
drawn-out struggle, Alterman said. “The battle lines are drawn,
the standoff will be fought over the next couple of years,” he
said.  Ottaway said that initially it will be hard for the
Brotherhood to be effective as it faces the vestiges of the old
regime. “The military, the top levels of Egyptian bureaucracy,
and the courts are on one side, the  Muslim Brotherhood  on the
other,” she said.  Change is under way, though, she said. In the November 2010
elections, the Mubarak regime “totally manipulated” the
outcome by blocking moderate opposition parties from getting
many seats and the Brotherhood from getting any, Ottaway said.
Though many Egyptians and some U.S. officials expected the
military to give the presidency to Shafik, Mubarak’s last
premier, “today, they did not dare do the same thing. The
change is huge, but it’s a long battle ahead,” Ottaway said by
telephone from  Beirut .  Two Themes  That battle is likely to have two main themes, Schenker
said. One will be an internal struggle within the Islamist camp,
with the more conservative Salafists pushing the Muslim
Brotherhood to the right in ways that will have domestic impact.  Recently, the Salafists objected to a $500 million Japanese
loan to build a Cairo metro because it involved interest, which
is forbidden in Islam. “How is that going to work out with the
IMF loan?” Schenker said of the $3.2 billion Egypt needs from
the  International Monetary Fund .  Another dynamic will echo shifts seen in  Turkey , where an
Islamic civilian government has steadily sidelined the military.  “Now, in Turkey, the military has been defanged,”
Schenker said. “One-fifth of all the generals in Turkey are in
jail. The elected Islamic leadership has brought the military to
heel.” The head of Egypt’s ruling military council, Field
Marshal Hussein Tantawi, “doesn’t want to end up in a cage, but
ultimately, this is what the Brotherhood wants,” Schenker said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  