-- Mitsubishi Sur Copper Bet to Lift Income Up to $500 Million
-- B y   Y u r i y   H u m b e r   a n d   I c h i r o   S u z u k i
-- 2012-06-26T10:17:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/mitsubishi-s-5-4-billion-copper-bet-sparks-codelco-fight-1-.html
Mitsubishi Corp. (8058) , the Japanese
trader that trumped Codelco to buy a stake in  Anglo American
Plc. (AAL) ’s Sur copper unit, expects it to generate as much as $500
million a year, becoming the company’s second-biggest earner.  The $5.4 billion record purchase for Mitsubishi was worth
it to grab a slice of what will be the world’s fifth-biggest
copper producer as supply dwindles, Jun Kinukawa, the chief
executive officer of Mitsubishi’s metals unit, said in an
interview. He declined to comment on a legal dispute over the
purchase, saying it is a “problem between Codelco and Anglo.”  Copper, the best-performing commodity on the London Metal
Exchange in the past year, has set Anglo and Rio Tinto Group
racing to develop mines and expand existing assets. Mitsubishi
paid twice as much as Codelco, the world’s biggest producer, had
offered for the Sur stake.  “This is the kind of  return  we’re looking for on our money,
these are the type of projects we want,” Kinukawa said in an
interview at the company’s  Tokyo  headquarters. Sur by itself may
earn Mitsubishi, co-owner of the world’s top coal exporter, a
third of the profits it makes from the  fossil fuel , he said.  Mitsubishi dropped 1.9 percent to 1,525 yen in Tokyo. The
stock is down by the same percentage this year, compared with a
2.5 percent gain in the benchmark Nikkei 225 index.  “Competition is very tough for copper assets, and it’s
hard for the traders to secure more exposure to the metal,”
said Kazuhisa Mori, an analyst with Barclays Plc. in Tokyo.
“That’s the reason Mitsubishi paid the money.”  Diversifying Profits  Copper and a $12 billion iron ore project in  Australia  form
part of Mitsubishi’s strategy to bolster revenue away from its
coal unit as the BHP Billiton Mitsubishi Alliance venture it
half owns lowered output due to labor disputes. The strikes that
began last year have cut output to as low as 60 percent of
capacity at times during the past three months, Kinukawa said.  Lower coal shipments are putting pressure on Mitsubishi CEO
Ken Kobayashi’s target of a record 500 billion yen ($6.2 billion)
in profit for the year ending March 31, 2013.  “It’s very difficult to predict what’s going to happen in
the next couple of months,” Kinukawa said, adding that he
couldn’t provide a forecast on the impact on output.  The  metals unit , including copper, accounted for 38 percent
of net income in last financial year, ahead of energy and
consumer goods. Mitsubishi earned 15 billion yen of net income
from copper, behind coal which accounted for 119.3 billion yen.  Copper Earnings  Mitsubishi expects returns of about 30 billion yen to 40
billion yen a year from Sur, Kinukawa said, without saying when
that will be achieved.  Barclay’s Mori said Sur could add as much as 30 billion yen
to Mitsubishi’s bottom line this year. The court dispute is
unlikely to affect the deal, he said. Nomura Securities Co.
analyst Yasuhiro Narita said his forecast for Sur profit this
year ranges between 15 billion yen to 20 billion yen.  “It’s up to the market to decide whether the profits
correspond to the sums they paid for Sur, but given the current
price weakness in copper there are some concerns,” Narita said
by phone in Tokyo.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  forecasts a 130,000 metric ton shortage in
copper this year to widen to 170,000 tons next year. Copper may
gain 16 percent to $8,525 a ton in the fourth quarter, according
to the median of 22 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Demand from  China , the world’s biggest consumer of the metal
used to make wire and pipes, has grown every year for at least a
decade, according to Bloomberg Industries.  Talks Continue  With Sur and other assets Mitsubishi can secure 300,000
tons of copper a year, Kinukawa said, up from 140,000 tons last
year. Anglo is spending $2.8 billion expanding Sur’s Los Bronces
mine to almost double capacity to 440,000 tons a year. There may
be a further expansion in five to ten years, he said.  Anglo sold Mitsubishi the 24.5 percent stake in Sur in a
transaction disputed by Codelco. The state company filed a
lawsuit in a Santiago court on Jan. 10 seeking to annul the sale,
which it says was aimed at thwarting its bid to exercise its
option to buy 49 percent of Sur for about $6 billion.  Officials at Codelco’s press office in Santiago declined to
comment on the legal proceedings.  Codelco said June 22 it would continue efforts to reach an
out-of-court settlement with Anglo, seeking an extension of the
negotiation period. Codelco acquired the option through a 2002
agreement.  Mitsui, Codelco  Mitsubishi’s offer also pits it against Mitsui & Co. which
agreed to lend Codelco $6.75 billion for the purchase of Sur
shares in return for an option to later buy half of the acquired
stake. Codelco CEO  Thomas Keller  went to Tokyo to hold talks
with Mitsui and Mitsubishi as part of efforts to end the dispute,
La Tercera reported on June 21.  “We’ve set our sights on being close to the top 10”
copper producers globally, Kinukawa said. “Coal and copper
would be our two main pillars with the other commodities filling
out the rest.”  Chile’s  Antofagasta Plc (ANTO)  was the No. 10 producer of copper
last year with 449,000 tons, while Codelco, the world’s biggest
producer, mined 1.72 million tons, according to London-based
consulting company CRU.  Australian Ore  Mitsubishi is pushing on with the $12 billion Jack Hills
iron ore development in  Western Australia , which could produce
20 million tons a year and includes the construction of a port
that can handle at least double that capacity.  Mitsubishi may select one or two partners, possibly from
China,  Japan  or  South Korea , to buy as much as a 50 percent
stake to help develop the operation, Kinukawa said. Chinese
mills may buy the ore from the mine, he added.  China’s Sinosteel Corp., Baoshan Iron & Steel Co., Angang
Steel Co., or South Korea’s Posco may partner Mitsubishi in the
project, Reuters reported in February, citing unidentified
people close to the deal. Kinukawa declined to name potential
partners.  Jack Hills , with resources of 4 billion tons, will be
Mitsubishi’s first iron ore project in Australia, he said.
Australia has become a high-cost production center with labor
costs, new taxes and energy costs spiraling, Kinukawa said.  Still, it is cheaper and less risky for Mitsubishi to
expand current projects in the country than to move to develop
the promising coal territories of countries such as Indonesia,
Mozambique or  Mongolia , he said.  “It’s all relative,” Kinukawa said. “It’d be very tough
for us to move out of Australia.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuriy Humber in Tokyo at 
 yhumber@bloomberg.net ;
 Ichiro Suzuki  in Tokyo at 
 isuzuki@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  