-- Japan Opposition’s Tanigaki Opposes Coalition With Noda’s DPJ
-- B y   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-06-25T09:30:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/japan-opposition-s-tanigaki-opposes-coalition-with-noda-s-dpj.html
The leader of Japan’s main
opposition party said a coalition with Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s ruling party remains unlikely after the two cooperated on
legislation to double the national  consumption tax .  Liberal  Democratic Party  leader  Sadakazu Tanigaki  said
divisions within Noda’s Democratic Party of Japan over the tax
proposal, which is set to be voted on in the lower house of
parliament tomorrow, make cooperation impossible. Former DPJ
leader Ichiro Ozawa opposes the bill and has suggested he may
leave and form a new party with his followers.  “I am extremely negative about the idea of a grand
coalition at this point,” Tanigaki said at the Foreign
Correspondent’s Club of Japan today in Tokyo. “The reason is
that the biggest party in the lower house of parliament has
several heads and I don’t know which way it’s going.”  Members of both parties have suggested a partnership
between Japan’s two biggest parties to overcome a hung
parliament and cope with a struggling economy and the aftermath
of last year’s record earthquake and nuclear crisis. Tanigaki
rejected an offer by Noda’s predecessor,  Naoto Kan , to join the
cabinet after the March 2011 disasters.  The DPJ hammered out a deal with the LDP and its smaller
partner New Komeito earlier this month, shelving many of its
election pledges on social welfare to win support for the tax
plan. Ozawa last week said he would vote against the measure,
adding that while he had “no concrete plans to leave and form a
new party,” he would consult with his followers on what steps
to take.  Both the DPJ and LDP are floundering in opinion polls. A
Nikkei newspaper survey published today showed each party’s
approval rating at 26 percent. The newspaper surveyed 917 voters
by telephone and gave no margin of error.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isabel Reynolds in  Tokyo  at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  