-- JPMorgan Shuns Chesapeake Business That Goldman Courts
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-06-25T04:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/jpmorgan-shuns-chesapeake-business-that-goldman-courts.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Goldman
Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  compete for banking and trading business from
almost all of the world’s largest companies, with one notable
exception:  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) , the second biggest U.S. gas
producer now facing a  cash-flow  shortage.  For more than a decade, JPMorgan bankers have declined to
do business with Chesapeake and its chief executive officer,
 Aubrey McClendon , 52, said people with knowledge of the matter.
In contrast, Goldman Sachs, which once loaned money to McClendon
against his wine collection, recently helped arrange a $4
billion loan for Oklahoma City-based Chesapeake and is advising
on its efforts to sell assets.  JPMorgan, the biggest U.S. lender by assets, is missing out
on a shot at hundreds of millions of dollars in fees paid to
banks over the years by Chesapeake, one of the energy industry’s
most active dealmakers. Avoiding Chesapeake also limits
 JPMorgan’s risk  should the gas company’s finances worsen.  “It’s unusual to choose not to do any business with an
organization that buys a lot of banking services,” said  Douglas Elliott , a fellow in economic studies at the Washington-based
Brookings Institution and a former investment banker. “If
anything, there’s a tendency to be greedy and want the fees.”  Concerns about Chesapeake’s fast growth and  credit quality 
played a role in JPMorgan’s decision not to pursue business from
the energy firm, said the people, who asked not to be identified
because the discussions were private. Competition is already
fierce and other banks have an edge, reducing the attractiveness
of pursuing Chesapeake work, one person said.  Officials at Chesapeake and New York-based JPMorgan
declined to comment.  ‘Reckless Billionaire’  McClendon is known as one of the energy industry’s biggest
risk-takers. Forbes magazine last year called him “America’s
most reckless billionaire.” He founded the company in 1989,
going on buying sprees that eventually amounted to a portfolio
of oil and gas fields that covers an area half the size of  New
York  State.  Along the way, McClendon has outspent  cash flow  in 19 of 21
years, relying on asset sales or financing transactions to stay
afloat. That has sometimes left the company, with unsecured debt
rated as junk by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors
Service, exposed to swings in oil and gas prices. Beset by low
 oil prices , the company put itself up for sale in 1998, failing
to secure a buyer.  One of the last pieces of investment-banking work that
JPMorgan, then known as J.P. Morgan & Co., did with Chesapeake
was a 1996 stock offering, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Bear Stearns  In 2008, McClendon asked JPMorgan to renew the relationship
after the bank bought Bear Stearns Cos. Bear was a frequent
participant in Chesapeake bond and stock offerings, some of
which JPMorgan completed after the purchase, said a person with
knowledge of the deals.  Steven Black, then co-CEO of JPMorgan’s investment bank,
and Douglas Petno, head of JPMorgan’s natural-resources
investment banking group, met with McClendon to discuss the
matter, the people said. The practice remained in place.  Other senior managers involved in the decision included
Kelly Coffey, who ran corporate derivatives marketing and the
North American reputational risk committee; Stephen Eichenberger, a credit-risk executive, and Larry Landry, a
leveraged-finance banker, the people said. All five didn’t
respond to requests for comment.  Chesapeake’s Growth  This group of JPMorgan officials and others inside the bank
met repeatedly to discuss Chesapeake’s growth, its  credit
quality  and the proper value of its holdings. One view of the
executives was that  Chesapeake’s assets , including pipelines and
real estate, were strong yet might not provide enough collateral
if the company was forced to sell assets later, the people said.  In one meeting of JPMorgan executives in 2008, it was
decided that Chesapeake didn’t meet at least portions of the
bank’s so-called five P’s of lending: people, payment,
protection, purpose and perspective, the people said. Those five
P’s, which other banks often call the five C’s -- character,
capacity, collateral, capital, conditions -- are used to examine
whether a borrower is creditworthy.  JPMorgan never found evidence of wrongdoing at Chesapeake,
the people said.  The bank’s position is more of an understanding among its
staffers than a formal policy, said people familiar with the
situation. Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon , 56, was aware of
the practice while not involved in making the decision, one
person said. The stance on Chesapeake applies across all of
JPMorgan’s units, including lending, credit-derivatives and
merger-and-acquisitions, said people familiar with the matter.  Avoided Meetings  Junior bankers in the oil and gas investment-banking group
are told not to seek meetings with Chesapeake executives to
pitch JPMorgan’s services, as they would most other energy firms
of Chesapeake’s size, people familiar with the matter said.  Banks occasionally will reject a potential client, said
Bradley Hintz, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. and a
former chief financial officer at Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.  “It’s tough to do, because the pressure on these banks is
to go out and bring in deals,” he said. “It’s usually a senior
person making that decision.”  Chesapeake is a gusher for investment banks. It issued
additional stock 13 times since its initial public offering in
1993, generating at least $265 million in fees, and it had 14
bond issues outstanding as of Dec. 31. It’s also the most
acquisitive company in the U.S. oil and gas exploration and
production industry, with 35 deals in the past 10 years valued
at $9.2 billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg  Under Pressure  This year, there will be more business. McClendon is facing
natural gas prices near historic lows, and is under pressure to
sell billions of dollars of assets to meet obligations. The
company’s cash-flow shortfall could reach $22 billion by next
year, according to  James Sullivan , an analyst at New York-based
Alembic Global Advisors.  He’s also contending with a governance crisis. Shareholders
including billionaire  Carl Icahn  replaced a majority of the
board and stripped McClendon of his role as chairman after
Reuters reported in April that he had borrowed against personal
stakes in company wells.  Chesapeake does business with most Wall Street players,
including  Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF) , its closest adviser,  Morgan
Stanley (MS) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Credit Suisse
Group AG. (CSGN)   Goldman’s Work  Goldman Sachs has developed a tight relationship with
Chesapeake, working with the company since at least 2005, when
it helped with a $262 million stock offering.  In addition to the recent loan and the asset-sale talks,
Goldman Sachs also won major roles in the planned initial public
offerings of Chesapeake’s oilfield-services subsidiary and FTS
International, a pressure-pumping business 30 percent owned by
Chesapeake. In 2009, a Goldman Sachs debt fund helped finance a
private-equity firm that bought rights to future oil and gas
production from some Chesapeake wells for $412 million.  “Chesapeake is a long-standing Goldman Sachs client and
the company and its board recently turned to us for both advice
and capital,” said  Michael DuVally , a spokesman for New York-
based Goldman Sachs. “We’re proud Chesapeake chose us and our
involvement is consistent with our focus on helping our clients
with their particular needs.”  The Goldman Sachs connection extends to McClendon’s
personal wealth. In 2008, the firm filed a notice that it had
extended credit to McClendon against his wine collection, at one
point considered among the biggest in the U.S. Construction of a
$3 million, 31,000-square-foot warehouse to maintain the
collection was halted around the same time.  Goldman Sachs helped McClendon liquidate his personal
holdings in Chesapeake stock later that year when he sold his
stake to meet margin calls, according to a regulatory filing.  “Banking in many ways is still a trust business,” said
Elliott of the  Brookings Institution . “Different people form
their opinions in different ways about who crosses the minimum
threshold of trust and who doesn’t.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in New York at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  