-- Justice Kennedy Leans Liberal -- for Now
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-06-25T16:16:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/justice-kennedy-leans-liberal-for-now.html
The liberal Justice Kennedy is in
the house -- at least for the moment.  Anthony Kennedy ’s opinion for the U.S.  Supreme Court 
embraced most of the  Obama administration’s view  that Arizona’s
aggressive immigration laws are pre-empted by the federal
government’s power to determine who is or is not allowed in the
country. For good measure, Kennedy also provided the deciding
fifth vote to rule that mandatory life without parole for
murderers under 18 violates the Constitution.  In doing so, he might have given us a glimpse of some
political gamesmanship behind closed doors at the court in the
run-up to Thursday’s expected opinion on President  Barack Obama ’s signature health-care reform law.  The immigration decision squarely rejected three provisions
of the Arizona law. One made it a state crime not to complete or
carry the immigration papers already required by federal law.
Another made it criminal for an illegal immigrant to apply for
or hold a job -- a rule that goes beyond the federal norm that
criminalizes the employer of an illegal worker, not the worker
himself. The third provision gave the police the authority to
arrest without a warrant anyone whom they reasonably suspected
of having committed some act that would allow them to be removed
from the country under federal immigration law. (Ordinarily, if
federal authorities stop a removable alien, they can’t detain
him, but simply tell him that he must show up for a hearing.)
The court concluded that all of these provisions were beyond
 Arizona ’s authority to enact.  Papers, Please  When it came to the most controversial part of the Arizona
law -- the so-called “papers, please” provision -- the court did
something rather clever. It said that the law might be read to
mandate nothing more than a requirement for police to check
immigration status during the ordinary duration of a legitimate
stop based on reasonable suspicion of a crime. If that was all
the law required, said the court, it would be constitutional.  On the surface, this holding upheld “papers, please.” In
practice, though, the court took away some of the potentially
frightening effects of the law, suggesting a roadmap for the
state to follow in implementing it. The court said that
detaining people only to determine their immigration status
“would raise constitutional concerns,” implying that the length
of the stop should not take longer than it ordinarily would to
perform a criminal background check.  Whether this is a realistic directive remains to be seen.
It is not clear what would constitute probable cause for an
officer to think that a person who has been stopped is an 
illegal immigrant, if not something discriminatory like racial
profiling. Thus the court left open the possibility of a future
challenge by civil rights advocates should the law be
implemented in a discriminatory fashion.  Justices Stephen Breyer,  Ruth Bader Ginsburg  and  Sonia Sotomayor  all joined Kennedy’s opinion. (Justice Elena Kagan
recused herself because she worked on the case while serving as
solicitor general.) Ordinarily, this would mean they were
satisfied with Kennedy’s position on “papers, please.”  Yet this is not an ordinary Supreme Court term. The three
liberals may have been willing to give Justice Kennedy more room
to maneuver than usual because they wanted to keep him close for
the health-care decision.  Changing Sides  Something of the kind may also have been in the mind of
Chief Justice  John Roberts , usually part of the conservative
bloc. In a highly unusual move, Roberts joined Kennedy on the
liberal side in the immigration case despite the dissenting
votes of Justices Antonin Scalia,  Clarence Thomas  and  Samuel Alito . We might read this as a sign that Roberts, too, was
hoping to bring Kennedy to his side in the health-care decision.
A few years ago, when Kennedy was a necessary fifth vote for
extending his corpus rights to prisoners in Guantánamo, then-
Justice Stevens joined Kennedy and the conservatives in an
important case about treaty interpretation. Many observers
interpreted his vote as a gesture toward Justice Kennedy.  There are other possible explanations for Roberts’ vote in
the immigration case. Under the Supreme Court’s rules, with only
eight justices sitting, a four-to-four tie would have meant
affirming the decision of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit, which struck down all of the Arizona
provisions including “papers, please.” By joining Kennedy’s
opinion, Roberts at least assured that one of the law’s
provisions would be formally upheld. There is a certain logic to
this deduction, but it seems like a slender reed on which to
hang Roberts’ uncharacteristic vote.  Roberts may also have been trying to shape his own image as
a nonpartisan “umpire” -- a term he famously used about his
future role in his confirmation hearings -- by voting in
accordance with the Obama administration. If he intends to vote
against the health-care bill, his supporters might be able to
point to the Arizona case as proof that he is not partisan but
objective.  In the end, however, this decision, like the health care
decision ahead, came down to Justice Kennedy. Liberals may be
excited about what this might mean for health care. But they
should not get too excited. At the same time that it decided the
immigration case and struck down mandatory life without parole
for juveniles, the court issued a one-page per curiam opinion
invalidating a Montana law that limited political contributions
by corporations. The opinion, with a 5-4 ideological split,
explained briefly that the Montana law must be struck down under
the logic of the  Citizens United  case that extended First
Amendment speech protection to corporate donations to
candidates.  The Montana case had offered an opportunity for the court -
- meaning Kennedy -- to revisit a ruling that gave rise to the
super-PACS now dominating the presidential election. Had the
court given the Montana case full consideration, it might have
found some way to distance itself from the consequences of
Citizens United. That it did not do so suggests Kennedy is
perfectly comfortable with his role as the decisive conservative
vote in that momentous decision.  The Arizona immigration case is a modest victory for the
Obama administration’s decision to assert federal authority
against the state law. It also suggests that Obama’s team was
right not to press an antidiscrimination claim before the law
had been implemented, a strategy that was widely criticized by
the law’s detractors. But whether that sense of victory will
last out the week is another question altogether.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 