-- KenolKobil Shares Surge to Fifteen-Year Record: Nairobi Mover
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-06-25T14:40:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/kenolkobil-heads-for-record-up-most-since-2009-nairobi-mover.html
KenolKobil Ltd. (KNOC) , Kenya’s largest
fuel retailer by market value, climbed to the highest on record
as investors bet Puma Energy Ltd. would successfully complete a
bid to buy a controlling interest in the company.  The  shares  jumped 9.1 percent to 15.55 shillings by the
close in Nairobi, the highest level since at least May 1997 when
Bloomberg began tracking the data. The volume of trading was
more than 2 1/2 times the stock’s three-month average.  “The stock is still undervalued even at current prices so
we’ll probably continue to see upward pressure in anticipation
that Puma’s offer price will be higher,” Judd Murigi, the head
of research at African Alliance  Kenya  Investment Bank Ltd., said
by phone from Nairobi. “We are expecting the announcement
anytime.”  The stock is trading at 5.1 times estimated  earnings  for
2012, compared with 7.5 times for the Nairobi Securities
Exchange’s All Share Index. KenolKobil resumed trading on the
Nairobi Securities Exchange on June 20, ending a six-week
suspension as the company discussed a takeover bid by Geneva-
based Puma, a unit of Trafigura Beheer.  The company’s cash outflows from operations in 2011 fell to
851.5 million shillings ($10.1 million), compared with a decline
of 9.7 billion shillings in the previous year, the only two
years since at least 2006 when the company experienced negative
operational flows, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  KenolKobil will issue a statement about its discussions
with Puma “early this week,” Emily Wanja, a spokeswoman for
the company, said in a phone interview from Nairobi today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  