-- Kerviel Appeal Over Conviction Should Fail, SocGen Tells Judges
-- B y   H e a t h e r   S m i t h
-- 2012-06-25T15:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/kerviel-appeal-over-conviction-should-fail-socgen-tells-judges.html
Societe Generale SA (GLE)  wants a Paris
appeals court to uphold a 2010 conviction holding  Jerome Kerviel 
responsible for the bank’s 4.9 billion-euros ($6.2 billion)
trading loss, lawyers for the bank said.  Jean Veil , a lawyer for the lender, read excerpts from the
verdict today as he urged the appeals court to reject the former
trader’s bid to clear his name. He praised the “penetrating
analysis of the lower court judges.”  Kerviel, 35, is asking the appeals court to reverse his
conviction after he was sentenced to three years in prison and
ordered to repay the Paris-based bank. He argues that he didn’t
betray the bank’s trust and that his superiors knew he was
exceeding trading limits. Kerviel also claims the lender unwound
his positions as a way to shift attention from an almost 2
billion-euro loss on U.S. subprime mortgages.  In court today, Veil said the bank wants 4.9 billion euros
as damages for its financial losses. He said  Societe Generale 
will not seek damages for the harm to its reputation.  Another bank lawyer, Francois Martineau, said Philippe
Hoube, a witness offered to support the defense claim that the
lender was trying to shift attention from its mortgage losses,
“was witness to nothing.” Martineau said Hoube presented no
evidence to support the argument, which he called “even more
absurd” than a defense claim that the bank knew what Kerviel
was doing.  Societe Generale has acknowledged that it failed to heed
alerts and red flags that may have enabled it to uncover
Kerviel’s trades sooner, Martineau said. The bank didn’t fight a
4 million-euro fine levied by French banking regulators, he
said.  “It is true that all of these alerts existed,” Martineau
said. “They weren’t spotted or their significance wasn’t
appreciated.”  Closing arguments will conclude June 28. A decision is
expected later this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Smith in Paris at 
 hsmith26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  