-- Kuwait Cabinet Submits Resignation to Ruler, Minister Says
-- B y   D a h l i a   K h o l a i f
-- 2012-06-25T15:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/kuwait-cabinet-submits-resignation-to-ruler-minister-says-1-.html
Kuwait’s four-month-old Cabinet,
headed by Sheikh Jaber Al-Mubarak Al-Sabah, submitted its
resignation to the emir five days after the country’s highest
court dissolved parliament.  “The Cabinet’s resignation is based on legal and
constitutional reasons, as a safe and precautionary measure to
avoid any unconstitutional doubts,” Information Minister Sheikh
Mohammad Al-Abdullah Al-Sabah said in a press conference in
 Kuwait City . “We submitted our resignation in order for a new
and sound government to be formed.”  The unprecedented June 20 verdict voided elections for the
existing parliament and reinstated its predecessor. The judgment
was called a constitutional coup by some members of parliament.  The opposition held more than 30 of the 50 seats in
parliament, which was elected last February on a turnout of 59.5
percent of the country’s almost 400,000 voters. Its election in
the fourth-biggest producer among the Organization of Petroleum
Exporting Countries, followed unparalleled anti-government
demonstrations focusing on a corruption scandal involving the
alleged transfer of millions of dollars to lawmakers. These led
the premier at the time, Sheikh Nasser Al-Mohammed Al-Sabah, to
resign in November.  Repeated clashes between Cabinet ministers and lawmakers
have led to a series of parliamentary dissolutions and cabinet
resignations, and stymied key investment projects, so
contributing to slower economic growth.  Opposition lawmakers have accused the government of delays
in implementation of  Kuwait ’s $111 billion development plan,
which includes expanding oil and gas production and
infrastructure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dahlia Kholaif in Kuwait at 
 dkholaif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net  