-- Navratilova Sees Herself in Wimbledon Winner Petra Kvitova
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-06-26T15:36:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/navratilova-sees-herself-in-defending-wimbledon-champion-kvitova.html
Martina Navratilova  looks at
Wimbledon champion Petra Kvitova and she sees a little bit of
herself. That’s not bad when the observer has won the grass-
court Grand Slam tournament in London a record nine times.  Navratilova, the most successful player since tennis turned
professional in 1968 with 59 Grand Slam titles, has counseled
Kvitova since she first saw her play at the  French Open  a few
years ago. Although 34 years apart in age, both are left-handed,
play attacking tennis, are Czech-born and won their first
Wimbledon title at the age of 21.  “I saw her here and I thought, ‘God, if this girl gets it
together, there’s going to be trouble,”’ Navratilova, 55, said
in an interview in Paris this month.  Watched by her parents from the royal box, Kvitova started
the defense of her title on Centre Court today with a 6-4, 6-4
win against Akgul Amanmuradova of Uzbekistan.  Navratilova and Kvitova have kept in touch since that first
meeting in Paris. Navratilova, an 18-time Grand Slam singles
champion who was born in  Prague  and became a U.S. citizen in
1981, watched from the royal box last year when Kvitova beat
former champion  Maria Sharapova  of  Russia  in straight sets for
her first Wimbledon title.  Quiet Court  In February, Navratilova took Kvitova on a tour of the All
England Club, including a visit to the museum and a look at
Centre Court in winter.  “We had fun, talked, walking round,” Navratilova said in
the interview at the French Open. “It’s always great to be on
Centre Court when there’s nobody there.”  Navratilova also showed Kvitova the roll of honor in the
club house that lists her record nine Wimbledon singles titles,
won between 1978 and 1990. Kvitova was only a few months old
when the last of those championships was won, and her father,
Jiri, made her watch recordings of Navratilova’s matches as she
was growing up.  Kvitova, who stands 6-foot-1 (1.85 meters), has a game
built on a strong serve and flat ground strokes. Navratilova
said Kvitova has the tools to win as many titles as she did on
the fast grass surface of the All England Club.  ‘More Physical’  “She got started the same time I did, with the first one,
and you never know,” Navratilova said. “These days it’s hard
to stay healthy long enough because the game is so much more
physical, but the way she plays, if anybody could do it, it
could be her because she plays such a powerful game, points are
short, she doesn’t really have to exert herself that much.”  Kvitova said she wasn’t so sure.  “I have a really long way to go,” she said in an
interview at the Rome Masters last month.  The 22-year-old followed her Wimbledon success by winning
the season-ending WTA Championships in Istanbul last year. She
said Navratilova’s advice before the Wimbledon final helped calm
her nerves.  “She told me not to think that it’s the Wimbledon final,
but that it’s a normal match, and that I can do it,” Kvitova
said. “When I came on court, it was a normal match and I was
really lucky that I felt it like a first round.”  The Czech newspaper Mlada Fronta Dnes carried the headline,
“Wimbledon Witnessed the Birth of a Star,” while another
publication, Pravo, proclaimed, “Modest Champion Petra Kvitova
Enchanted Wimbledon.”  Auto Upgrade  Kvitova, the No. 4 seed at Wimbledon this year, no longer
drives a Skoda, but a BMW 320. Although she said she enjoys
driving a faster car, getting recognized took some getting used
to.  “It was something new for me, a new experience,” Kvitova
said. “I don’t want to say it was hard but it was not very easy
to get used to being famous in the  Czech Republic . Everybody
stared at me in the supermarket and on the street.”  Navratilova, who defected to the U.S. from communist
 Czechoslovakia  in 1975, credits the Czech system with producing
champions such as herself, eight-time major winner  Ivan Lendl ,
2010 Wimbledon runner-up Tomas Berdych and Kvitova.  “The club system there produces really good players,
without trying to,” Navratilova said. “You go to the club and
hang out. You play other sports and kids are running around
kicking a soccer ball. They become better athletes, much better
all-round athletes, and they’re active and they’re healthy and
they’re doing it for fun. I was there all day long. Just playing
sets, doubles, singles, whatever I could do.”  Major Semifinals  Kvitova made the semifinals at the Australian Open and
French Open this year, losing both times to Sharapova. Her
preparation for Wimbledon was cut short when she lost in the
opening round of Eastbourne last week to Ekatarina Makarova, a
Russian ranked 48th on the women’s tour.  Although Kvitova has no major flaws in her game, there is
still scope for improvement.  “She’s a big woman, but use that to your advantage and
make it as little a disadvantage as possible,” Navratilova
said. “I think she just needs to get a little lighter on her
feet. Petra doesn’t need to re-tool but she can definitely
improve. She’s 22 years old. I was clueless at that age, so
she’s way ahead of me on that one.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at Wimbledon through the  London  sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  