-- Wheeler to Lead N.Z. Central Bank as Kiwi Hits Exports: Economy
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e   a n d   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-06-26T04:03:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/new-zealand-names-graeme-wheeler-as-next-rbnz-governor.html
Former World Bank Managing Director
Graeme Wheeler was named New Zealand’s next central bank
governor, inheriting a policy of record-low  interest rates  and
the best-performing Group of 10 currency this year.  Wheeler’s “extensive experience makes him a highly
respected figure in world financial markets and within New
Zealand,” Finance Minister  Bill English  said in a statement
today. He will succeed Alan Bollard, who served in the position
for a decade and whose term ends Sept. 25, English said.  The  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand is changing leaders near a
possible turning point for rates that have been on hold for 15
months, as  Europe ’s fiscal crisis and a stronger currency
threaten to slow export growth while rebuilding after a series
of earthquakes is set to accelerate next year. The official cash
rate has been 2.5 percent since March 2011, with a 62 percent
chance of a rate cut before year end, according to  interest-rate
swaps  data compiled by Bloomberg.  The local currency bought 78.93 U.S. cents at 3:44 p.m. in
Wellington, compared with 78.71 cents immediately before
Wheeler’s appointment was announced. The so-called kiwi’s 1.5
percent increase against the  U.S. dollar  this year is the
biggest among G-10 currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  “Bringing in new blood, a fresh perspective, is often a
good thing,” said Robin Clements, chief New Zealand economist
at UBS AG in Christchurch. While Wheeler has experience
monitoring the domestic and international economies, “we don’t
know a lot about his views,” Clements said.  Sole Discretion  New Zealand’s  central bank  governor has sole responsibility
for rate decisions, and Wheeler is being appointed as Europe’s
turmoil restrains  consumer confidence  and threatens to curb
exports, which make up 30 percent of the economy. The RBNZ,
among the first central banks in the world to adopt an inflation
target, is required to keep consumer-price gains in a 1 percent
to 3 percent range.  Wheeler, a New Zealand citizen, will be governor-designate
until a new policy targets agreement is finished in the “next
few months,” which is required before the appointment of a new
governor, according to the statement.  English said he doesn’t envisage any “major changes” to
the agreement when Wheeler succeeds Bollard.  “However, the global financial crisis has focused some
attention on monetary policy frameworks, and I want to ensure
that the PTA continues to reflect best international practice,”
English said.  Poverty Fighting  Wheeler, 60, worked at the  World Bank  from 1997 to 2010,
according to the statement. He was appointed treasurer of the
Washington-based lender in 2001 and became one of two managing
directors in 2006. He stepped down from the role in June 2010.  The Financial Times reported in 2007 that Wheeler was the
decisive voice that left  Paul Wolfowitz  with no option but to
resign as president of the bank. Wolfowitz quit in May 2007 amid
a furor over a pay raise he arranged for his companion.  In his World Bank speeches, Wheeler has called  climate
change  “the defining issue of our time,” focused on the plight
of the poor during economic downturns and said  Benjamin Franklin 
might have added financial cycles to his list of certainties in
life -- death and taxes.  “One might hope that the frequency and amplitude of
financial cycles would diminish as governments improve their
economic management through initiatives such as medium-term
financial strategies, fiscal responsibility rules, more
independent central banks, flexible exchange rates and prudent
balance-sheet management,” Wheeler said in a June 2008  speech 
in  Washington . “One might hope, but one should not be
confident.”  Chasing Reward  In the remarks four years ago, he said “the days of boom
and bust in financial markets will continue” as “the desire
for reward and the fear of danger are too hard wired into the
human condition for these to disappear.”  Elsewhere in the Asia-Pacific region today, the  Philippines 
said imports fell and the trade deficit narrowed in April. The
government reported a budget shortfall for May as spending rose.
Singapore’s industrial production probably rose for the first
time in three months in May, economists surveyed by Bloomberg
predicted before a report due today. Hong Kong will also report
trade data.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index slid 0.5 percent at 12:54 p.m.
in  Tokyo , the fourth straight trading day of declines.  European Confidence  Consumer confidence in  Germany  will probably ease in July,
according to a Bloomberg News survey ahead of a  GfK SE (GFK)  forecast
due today. French consumer confidence may have slid in June, a
separate Bloomberg survey showed. Italian retail sales and Dutch
gross domestic product data are scheduled for release today. In
the U.S., a Conference Board report will probably show consumer
confidence fell in June, according to a Bloomberg survey.  While at the World Bank, Wheeler had been cited by local
analysts in 2002 as a potential successor to previous RBNZ
Governor Don Brash.  New Zealand ’s government appoints the
central bank chief on the recommendation of the RBNZ’s seven
non-executive directors.  The nation’s economy expanded 1.1 percent in the first
quarter from the prior quarter, the most in five years,
according to a government report on June 21. Still, consumer
confidence fell in June to the lowest level in more than a year,
ANZ National Bank Ltd. said June 15, citing a Roy Morgan survey
of 1,040 people.  Watching EU  “Political and economic stresses in Europe, along with a
run of weaker-than-expected data, have seen New Zealand’s
trading partner outlook worsen,” Bollard said in a statement
June 14 announcing no rate change. “The bank is monitoring
euro-area developments carefully given the potential for rapid
change.”  Wheeler, who played cricket for Wellington in 1982, worked
at the Treasury Department for 24 years, including as director
of macroeconomic forecasting and a five-year term as treasurer
of the New Zealand Debt Management office. He lives in the U.S.,
where he operates his own advisory business, according to
English’s statement.  Today’s appointment is the fourth consecutive time since
1982 that the Reserve Bank has selected an external candidate.
Bollard was the third straight external appointment when he
moved to the RBNZ from the Treasury Department in 2002. Brash
was chief executive officer of WestpacTrust, the local unit of
 Westpac Banking Corp. (WBC) , when he has named in 1988 and Spencer
Russell was chief executive of the National Bank of New Zealand
Ltd. when appointed in 1984.  “We don’t foresee any changes in the conduct of monetary
policy in the short term,” said  Michael Gordon , a Westpac
senior economist in Auckland, said in a research note today. He
said Westpac expects the next rate increase in March, “once the
new governor has settled in.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  