-- Newmont’s Conga Gold Project Gets Peru Authorization
-- B y   A l e x   E m e r y
-- 2012-06-25T22:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/newmont-s-conga-gold-project-gets-peru-authorization.html
Newmont Mining Corp. (NEM)  was allowed to
resume its $4.8 billion gold project in Peru after pledging to
build reservoirs to ensure water supply for farming in the
region following protests that halted construction last year.  The Minas Conga project will be subject to environmental
monitoring by the government, President  Ollanta Humala  said in a
 statement  posted on the presidential website.  Peru suspended the project and commissioned an
environmental review after Andean farmers concerned that the
project would dry up water supplies blocked roads and destroyed
Newmont’s installations in November. The reservoirs, which aim
to increase water supply 10-fold for farmers in the northern
Andes, will take 18 to 24 months to be built, Environment
Minister Manuel Pulgar told Lima-based Radioprogramas today.  “The government has been clear that we must have the water
first,” Energy and Mines Minister Jorge Merino told reporters
in  Lima  today. “Now we have to insist on dialogue and work more
closely with the communities.”  Humala also ended a 25-day state of emergency in the
southern Andean region of Cuzco as government-brokered talks
began with opponents of  Xstrata Plc (XTA) ’s Tintaya copper mine.  Conga Protests  Protests against the Conga project continued for a fourth
week in the northern city of Cajamarca as opponents staged
marches and hunger strikes. Protests won’t cease until the
company pulls out, Wilfredo Saavedra, head of the Cajamarca
Environmental Defense Front, told Lima-based television Canal N.  Newmont, which has invested $800 million in Conga to date,
will spend $95 million on the construction of four reservoirs,
according to Conga Project Manager Luis Arguelles.  “The project represents a great opportunity for the
country for the commitment to bring water first, and in terms of
jobs,” Arguelles said today at a press conference in Cajamarca
broadcast by state-run  Peru  TV. “We estimate $3 billion in tax
payments” over the life of the mine, he said.  Newmont rose 1.7 percent to close at $48.79 in  New York .
Its partner in the project,  Cia. de Minas Buenaventura SAA ,
gained 1 percent to $38.16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Emery in Lima at 
 aemery1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at   jattwood3@bloomberg.net  