-- Nigeria Urges Boko Haram to State Grievances Before Talks
-- B y   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 2012-06-25T10:10:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/nigeria-urges-boko-haram-to-state-grievances-before-talks.html
Nigerian President  Goodluck Jonathan 
said the Boko Haram militant Islamist group must state its
grievances before his administration can start talks to end its
violent campaign in Africa’s top oil producer.  “Boko Haram has no face and government will not have
dialogue with faceless people,” Jonathan said in an interview
late yesterday on state-owned NTA television. “They must come
out and tell us why they are doing what they are doing.”  Jonathan spoke two days after he fired his defense and
security ministers and said his government needed to change
tactics in the fight against Boko Haram. He announced the
measures after Boko Haram attacks in the northern city of Kaduna
and Damaturu and clashes between Muslims and Christians this
month killed as many as 180 people.  Andrew Azazi was replaced as national security adviser by
Sambo Dasuki, a retired U.S.-trained colonel who is a cousin of
Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, the current Sultan of Sokoto
and nominal head of  Nigeria ’s Muslim community. Defense Minister
Haliru Mohammed Bello was also fired, Jonathan said. No
replacement has been named.  “It is not as if the old hands are not good, but you also
have to change your tactics,” Jonathan said. “We will continue
to adjust our security architecture and where there is need to
change personnel to work into our program, we will surely do
it.”  Boko Haram, which means “Western education is a sin,”
says it is fighting to establish an Islamic state in Nigeria.  Dialogue Ended  A Muslim cleric, Shekh Dahiru Usman, said on June 6 that he
was mediating between the government and the militants. A day
later, Abul Qaqa, a Boko Haram spokesman, said the group hadn’t
been approached about starting a dialogue. Boko Haram’s stance
hasn’t changed, he said, since it ruled out negotiations in
March after details of preliminary talks were leaked to the
Nigerian media.  Nigeria,  Africa ’s most-populous country with more than 160
million people, is split between the largely Muslim north and a
predominantly Christian south.  Boko Haram poses a more serious threat to the country than
the 1967-1970 Biafra civil war, Jonathan said on Jan. 8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  