-- Nissan India Partner Thinks Small to Close Gap With Tata
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-06-26T11:24:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/nissan-india-partner-thinks-small-to-close-tata-gap.html
Ashok Leyland Ltd. (AL) ,  India ’s second-
biggest truckmaker, is adding small goods carriers and expanding
overseas to claw back market share lost to  Eicher Motors Ltd. (EIM) 
and  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT)   Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s Indian partner, which reported its
smallest gain in sales in three years in the 12 months ended
March 31, plans to add 25 models in the year that began April 1,
Vinod Dasari, the company’s managing director said in an e-
mailed response to questions. The company last year began
selling the small carrier Dost, which means friend in Hindi.  “We have a three-month waiting period,” for the Dost,
said Dasari. “By entering the light-commercial vehicle market
with Nissan, we have filled a very critical gap in our product
range.”  Ashok Leyland, set up in 1948 to assemble Austin Motor
Co.’s A40 cars, is betting more products in India’s fastest
growing automotive  category  will help it regain lost market
share. Partnering with  Japan ’s second-biggest automaker will
help the Chennai-based company accelerate development of cargo
vehicles of maximum weight of 7.5 tons after lagging behind Tata
Motors and  Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd. (MM)  in entering the market.  “Light-commercial vehicles will be the growth driver in
the commercial vehicle space,” said Abhishek Banerjee, an
analyst at Asian Markets Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. “Had Ashok
Leyland not come up with the Dost, it would have been in a tough
spot.” He has a sell recommendation on the stock.  Ashok Leyland, which has hired Mahendra Singh Dhoni,
captain of India’s cricket team, to endorse its products, has
risen 9 percent this year, lagging behind a 38 percent gain in
Tata Motors. Ashok Leyland rose 0.4 percent to 24.95 rupees at
the close in Mumbai.  Equal Venture  India’s light-commercial goods carrier segment grew 30
percent in the year ended March 31, led by Tata Motors’  Ace .
Ashok Leyland sold 7,593 units of its 2.5-ton Dost vehicle in
the period, after starting sales last year, while Mahindra sold
127,029 units including its Maxximo and Genio models.  Nissan and Ashok Leyland’s equal venture plans to spend
11.5 billion rupees ($203 million) to introduce three small
trucks, the first of which was the Dost, in India to tap demand
for smaller vehicles used for deliveries within cities and for
rural transportation,  Andy Palmer , Nissan’s senior vice
president said in March 2011. The venture will have a capacity
to produce 150,000 vehicles a year by March 2014, Palmer said.  Record Harvest  Light goods carriers have become popular as a second year
of record food grain harvest and unprecedented government prices
for crops boosts rural income and demand. India raised the
minimum price of paddy by 16 percent to a record 1,250 rupees
per 100 kilograms for the 2012-2013 crop season.  “LCVs have replaced 3-wheelers and pickup trucks for the
last mile connectivity,” said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst at
Fortune Equity Brokers India Ltd. in Mumbai. “It’s much more
economical to use an LCV over a pickup as the fuel economy is
better.”  Competition is increasing for Ashok Leyland in its main
business as overseas rivals lured by rising demand build local
factories. Sales of medium and heavy trucks are forecast to
almost double to 500,000 vehicles by 2020 from 270,000 last
year, according to IHS Automotive.  Deliveries of the company’s heavy and medium trucks
declined 3.5 percent to 60,480 units in the year ended March 31,
compared with the industrywide increase of 8.8 percent, a trade
group’s data show. The company has seven truck and bus factories
in India and sells through more than 400 outlets.  Daimler, Navistar  Daimler, the world’s biggest truckmaker, this year opened a
factory to build carriers ranging from six tons to 49 tons in
India. Daimler will unveil 17 models by 2014, and the factory
will be able to initially produce 36,000 trucks a year, Daimler
said in April.  Mahindra partnered  Navistar International Corp. (NAV)  in 2005 to
build trucks, while Volvo AB, the world’s No. 2 truck maker,
invested $275 million in a venture with Eicher to make vehicles
in India in 2008.  Tata Motors, the owner of Jaguar Land Rover, controls 62
percent of the large and medium truck market, according to data
from the  Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers . Ashok
Leyland’s share dropped to 20 percent in the year to March 31,
compared with 23 percent in the year-ago period. Eicher’s share
rose 1 percentage point to 11 percent, data show.  “The times are tough for Ashok Leyland,” said Umesh Karne, an analyst at Brics Securities Ltd. in Mumbai. “For the
last one year, the Indian commercial vehicles market has been
under pressure.”  ‘Game Changing’  Among the 25 products planned for this year include Ashok
Leyland’s first front-engine, flat bus and a 37-ton truck both
described as “game changing products,” by Dasari.  The company also plans to export trucks to  South America ,
 Southeast Asia  and west Africa to boost revenue, Dasari said.
Sales overseas  contributed  about 11 percent of total in the year
ended March 31.  “We believe that with the light commercial vehicles and
growth in exports, Ashok Leyland will be able to grow market
share,” said Sabarad of Fortune Equity, who  advises  buying the
shares. “A set of new products and better marketing spend will
help them.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chua Kong Ho at 
 kchua6@bloomberg.net  