-- Nokia Drops on Microsoft System Decision: Helsinki Mover
-- B y   V i l l e   H e i s k a n e n   a n d   M a n u e l   B a i g o r r i
-- 2012-06-25T15:47:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/nokia-drops-on-microsoft-system-decision-helsinki-mover.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the Finnish smartphone
maker using  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s operating system, fell to a 16-
year low after analysts said sales may be hurt as the U.S.
supplier’s new program won’t work on its current phones.  Nokia  dropped  11.4 percent to 1.71 euros in Helsinki, the
lowest since August 1996. The stock has lost more than half of
its value this year.  Microsoft, the largest software maker, said on June 20 that
its Windows Phone 8 program will go on sale in the second half
and that phones running previous versions can’t be upgraded. The
move may make Nokia’s current models less attractive, hurting a
company already grappling with  mounting losses  and highlighting
its dependence on Microsoft.  “What happens with Microsoft is crucial for Nokia as it
tries to control its cash burn,” said Michiel Plakman, a  fund
manager  at Robeco Group in Rotterdam, who helps manage about 9
billion euros ($11.2 billion) including Microsoft shares. “The
problem for Nokia, as it’s been in the last couple years, is
that there’s no plan B.”  Plakman said he sold Nokia shares before the company’s
agreement with Microsoft last year. Nokia Chief Executive
Officer Stephen Elop, a former Microsoft executive, placed
Nokia’s bets on Windows Phone while abandoning its in-house
Symbian operating system.  ‘Legacy Products’  Stuart Jeffrey , a New York-based analyst at Nomura Holdings
Inc., lowered his revenue estimate on June 22 for Espoo,
Finland-based Nokia, citing the new Microsoft product. The
Helsinki stock exchange was closed for a holiday on June 22.  Nokia may sell fewer of its Lumia phones that run Windows
Phone in the third quarter than previously estimated because
some customers will wait until the Windows Phone 8 release
before buying a new device, Jeff Kvaal and Andrew Gardiner,
analysts at  Barclays Capital , said in a note June 21. Current
Lumia devices are “somehow already legacy products,” the
analysts said.  People who own a current-generation Lumia will be able to
upgrade to Windows Phone 7.8, featuring a new home screen,  Doug
Dawson , a Nokia spokesman, said on June 22. Clients will also
receive updates including functions like streaming of media
content, the ability to connect other devices to the Internet
through the handsets and new games from  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA)   Samsung Electronics Co., which overtook Nokia in the first
quarter as the world’s largest handset maker, said today its
Galaxy S III will help mobile earnings surpass the first-quarter
record after users responded more positively to the latest
smartphone model. The Galaxy model line runs on  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
Android operating system.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ville Heiskanen in New York at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net ;
Manuel Baigorri in Madrid at 
 mbaigorri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  