-- NYSE Liffe Will Stick to Delivery Limits Proposal in London
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-06-25T15:49:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/nyse-liffe-will-stick-to-delivery-limits-proposal-in-london-1-.html
NYSE Liffe, the derivatives arm of
NYSE Euronext, will stick to a proposal to implement delivery
limits to its  London  commodity contracts, according to a notice
on the exchange’s website dated June 22.  Buyers will not be able to take delivery of more than 7,500
contracts on cocoa and robusta coffee, 5,000 contracts on white
sugar and 2,000 contracts on feed wheat, according to a Feb. 15
proposal. The planned limits would have permitted most of the
deliveries in the past 10 years and wouldn’t inhibit commercial
activity, NYSE Liffe said in the  notice , after consulting 12
members representing 60 percent of all outstanding contracts.  “The exchange believes that the proposal to limit the size
of deliveries has general member and user support,” it said.
“Delivery limits will normally be reviewed every six months.”  “A number of respondents” on a survey about the proposal
suggested delivery limits should be increased on all four
commodities, according to the notice. Two preferred the current
rules and a third was against limits in wholesale markets. The
proposed changes will take effect for positions in November 2012
for robusta coffee, December 2012 for white sugar and cocoa and
January 2013 for feed wheat, the exchange said.  “I believe strongly some degree of regulation needs to be
implemented to prevent unnecessary situations developing in the
markets, but this solution is not without risk,”  Jonathan Parkman , co-head of agriculture at broker Marex Spectron Group
in London, said by phone today. “There is a danger that we
create a whole new set of unintended risks due to the
inflexibility of the new rules”  Delivery Exemptions  NYSE Liffe may allow buyers to take delivery of up to
double the proposed limit in certain cases, which include a
physical commitment to deliver to a client the commodity
obtained via the exchange, according to the February proposal.  “The proposed levels of exemption upper limits remain
appropriate at present,” according to the notice.  The exchange is also seeking feedback on a new plan to add
an exemption to allow for short position holders to deliver an
amount up to the relevant exemption limit, it said. Under this
proposal, ownership of graded coffee and cocoa available for
delivery must be proven and ownership of wheat under warrant
must also be proven. In the case of white sugar, the physical
commodity must be available for shipment, it said.  A change to the timetable for exemption applications is
also being proposed. Feedback must be submitted by the close of
business on July 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  