-- Obama Executive Privilege Fight With House Recalls Watergate
-- B y   R o g e r   R u n n i n g e n   a n d   H e i d i   P r z y b y l a
-- 2012-06-25T17:32:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/obama-executive-privilege-fight-with-house-recalls-watergate.html
Fights between presidents and
Congress over executive privilege are as old as the republic. A
few turn on a constitutional principle. Typically, as with the
current battle between  House Republicans  and Attorney General
Eric Holder, they also involve politics.  The Republican-led U.S. House is set to vote this week on
holding the nation’s top law enforcement officer in contempt for
refusing to hand over internal  Justice Department  documents on a
federal firearms sting operation that allowed weapons to reach
Mexican drug cartels. On June 20, President  Barack Obama  invoked
executive privilege for the first time since taking office in
2009, blocking a congressional subpoena to turn over documents.  “The president is in quite a strong position” legally,
said Peter Shane, a specialist in separation of powers law at
 Ohio State University ’s Moritz College of Law in Columbus.  Executive privilege is a principle that says the executive
branch can’t be required by Congress to disclose confidential
communications when they would harm the operations of the White
House.  Many presidents have had the fight.  George Washington 
battled with Congress over documents about the defeat of the
U.S. Army at the hands of an Indian tribe. Lawmakers demanded
answers, and Washington said the White House would “generally”
respond, except in areas of personal advice from aides or how
decisions were made.  Contempt of Congress  A recent finding of contempt of Congress involving the
assertion of executive privilege involved the late Anne Gorsuch Burford, President  Ronald Reagan ’s head of the Environmental
Protection Agency. Reagan ordered Burford to withhold toxic-
waste cleanup records to Congress in 1982, a claim later
abandoned by the White House. She was found in contempt and
resigned.  Executive privilege also figured in a standoff with
Congress and the U.S. Justice Department under Republican
President  George W. Bush  in 2007.  Bush, citing executive
privilege, refused to let his aides testify before lawmakers
about the firings of nine federal prosecutors in 2006, or give
congressional investigators White House e-mails pertaining to
them. After Bush left office, Obama’s White House lawyers
negotiated an agreement to allow Congress to question the aides
and to obtain their e-mails about the firings.  Watergate Ruling  Scholars of executive privilege cite Watergate as one of
the most important examples in U.S. history. The U.S. Supreme
Court ruled that President Nixon’s assertion over his right to
maintain secrecy of White House tapes went too far to fit within
a limited claim of executive privilege.  Nixon lost, 8-0, with Justice William Rehnquist recusing
himself, and the high court ordered Nixon in July 1974 to
release the tapes. Nixon resigned in August.  “It’s the seminal issue from which all subsequent
presidents, Congress and the lawyers take their instructions,”
said Steve Ryan, a Washington-based partner at McDermott, Will &
Emery who has represented Democrats and Republicans in
congressional investigations.  Obama’s assertion of executive privilege isn’t about an
inter-governmental-branch conflict such as Watergate. The
Justice Department says it already has provided more than 7,600
pages of documents involving Fast and Furious, the law
enforcement operation being investigated. In a June 20
statement, Holder called the panel’s action “an election-year
tactic intended to distract attention.”  Often Resolved  Historically, claims of executive privilege tend to be
rejected by courts or aren’t prosecuted. In 1998, House
Republicans decided against a floor vote citing Attorney General
Janet Reno for contempt. She was accused of withholding
documents related to a campaign finance investigation after she
worked out a deal with then-House Speaker  Newt Gingrich , a
Republican.  Ryan said the most probable outcome of the current standoff
is a deepening of partisan divisions ahead of the November
election.  “This is just a political fight,” he said. “From a
policy standpoint, it’s a pretty serious thing to raise this to
the House floor.”  The House Government and Oversight Committee, led by
Republican Representative  Darrell Issa  of  California , is seeking
documents describing internal Justice Department discussions
about a February 2011 letter to lawmakers that Holder later said
mistakenly contained incorrect information.  ‘Concrete Terms’  “The committee has not explained in very concrete terms
why it needs the documents in dispute,” said Shane, who served
as a Justice Department attorney under former Presidents Jimmy Carter and Reagan. Unless Republicans have inside information
about malfeasance, “it’s not really clear why they’re pursuing
these so strenuously,” he said.  Republicans contend they have the upper hand because the
courts have rejected attempts by presidents to assert privilege
over documents that didn’t include communications between a
chief executive and his advisers, according to  Michael Steel , a
spokesman for House Speaker  John Boehner .  Obama’s assertion “on its face does not meet the test of
executive privilege,” Steel said. “The president is a
constitutional scholar; I am sure he knows that.”  Obama may have invoked executive privilege too soon, said
Mark Rozell, a professor of public policy at  George Mason
University  in Fairfax, Virginia and author of a book on
executive privilege.  “If the attorney general is still willing to engage in
negotiations, and there’s still some possibility of some
compromise, a claim of executive privilege just doesn’t make
sense to me,” he said.  Resolving Dispute  Indeed, Holder, speaking to reporters on June 21, a day
after Obama invoked executive privilege, said he hoped the
contempt citation, the first of a Cabinet officer by a
congressional panel in 14 years, could be resolved before a full
House vote.  “We put before the committee a proposal that would have
allowed for a resolution of that matter, consistent with the way
in which these have been resolved in the past,” Holder said.  Fights over executive privilege, which isn’t mentioned in
the Constitution, tend to play out in a predictable fashion,
said Robert Luskin, a partner at  Patton Boggs LLP , who defended
Bush’s political adviser  Karl Rove  when the Democratic-
controlled House Judiciary Committee voted to hold him in
contempt over the firings of the U.S. attorneys.  “The president is going to say he’s protecting the
legitimate interests of the presidency and that he’s speaking
for the institution, not himself. The folks on the other side
will say: See it proves you’ve got something to hide,” Luskin
said.  “You don’t need to be  William Shakespeare  to write the
lines in this play,” he said. “These disputes have a certain
ritual quality to them that needs to be played out.”  In the current case, Ryan said, there’s “no doubt” that
lower-ranking Justice Department officials used poor judgment in
allowing the weapons to reach the Mexican gangs. Still, he says,
“I would argue this is the wrong constitutional battle” and
doesn’t merit a vote on contempt of Congress.  “The question is: Do both sides want to compromise?” Ryan
said. “And by the way, the answer to that is: People will look
at how it polls out and they’ll decide.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Roger Runningen in Washington at 
 rrunningen@bloomberg.net ;
Heidi Przybyla in Washington at 
 hprzybyla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 Jschneider50@bloomberg.net  