-- Obama Starts East Coast Campaign Swing on Romney’s Home Turf
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v
-- 2012-06-26T01:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/obama-starts-east-coast-campaign-swing-on-romney-s-home-turf.html
President  Barack Obama  linked his
Republican challenger  Mitt Romney  to the outsourcing of U.S.
jobs overseas and ridiculed Romney’s advisers for making a
distinction between “outsourcing” and “off-shoring.”  “We all believe that risk takers and entrepreneurs need to
be rewarded,” Obama said at Symphony Hall in  Boston , during his
third stop on a two-day campaign fundraising swing. The
president said he wanted “to close the outsourcing loophole”
in the U.S. tax code.  Obama said Romney, a former  Massachusetts  governor,
supports “top-down” economic policies of past Republican
administrations that were tested and failed. He said Romney and
Republicans would cut health care coverage and effectively raise
taxes on the middle class by taking away deductions that the
middle class relies on.  The president and his campaign surrogates have criticized
the presumptive Republican presidential nominee for sending U.S.
manufacturing jobs overseas when he was head of Bain Capital
LLC. The Washington Post reported June 21 that the Boston-based
private-equity firm that Romney helped found in 1984 invested in
multiple firms specializing in relocating U.S. jobs to low-wage
countries.  Romney spokeswoman Andrea Saul said the report was flawed.
It didn’t differentiate between “domestic outsourcing versus
off-shoring,” work done overseas to support U.S. exports, she
said.  Court Ruling  Obama is campaigning today on Romney’s home turf in  New
Hampshire  and in Boston, and tomorrow in Atlanta and Miami,
where he’ll make a fresh appeal to Hispanic voters. His trip
comes as the president and his administration prepare for a
ruling June 28 from the  Supreme Court  on the validity of the
2010 health care overhaul. He made no mention of that case, or
an immigration law ruling that the court made today.  During an appearance earlier today in Durham, New
Hampshire, Obama appealed to New England independents with a
promise to “work with anyone of any party who believes that we
are in this together.”  The president used his Boston stop to promote the Senate
campaign of Democrat  Elizabeth Warren , a former Harvard law
professor who conceived Obama’s Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau. Obama told the crowd at Symphony Hall they were lucky to
have the chance to vote for Warren, who is challenging incumbent
Senator  Scott Brown , a Massachusetts Republican.  “Nobody fought harder for Wall Street reform,” Obama
said.  Fundraising Events  In introducing Obama, Warren said the president’s support
for creating the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau shows his
commitment to working for people.  “He fought for you, students and seniors, homeowners and
veterans,” Warren said. “Big banks and Republicans fought
tooth and nail against us” to prevent it from becoming law.  The president’s Boston-area events included a campaign
roundtable with 25 guests and tickets at $40,000 each, and the
1,800-donor speech at Symphony Hall with ticket prices starting
at $144.  Later, the president was attending a dinner for 100 people
at the home of Judith and Douglas Krupp in Weston,
Massachusetts, with tickets at $17,900 per person, according to
a campaign official who asked not to be identified by name.
Douglas Krupp is co-founder of real-estate investment firm
Berkshire Group and chairman of Berkshire Income Realty Inc.  Tomorrow, Obama is scheduled to hold two fundraisers in
Atlanta, including a 500-donor event with tickets starting at
$250, and a campaign roundtable with 20 donors paying $35,000.
In Miami, he’ll attend a 30-donor fundraiser at a private home
with tickets at $40,000 each, as well as a 1,500-donor event
featuring singer  Marc Anthony , with tickets starting at $44.  The money raised goes to the president’s campaign, the
 Democratic National Committee  and state Democratic parties.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Talev in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  