-- Modelo Soars as AB InBev Seeks 100% Stake: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n
-- 2012-06-25T21:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/modelo-soars-as-ab-inbev-seeks-100-stake-mexico-city-mover.html
Grupo Modelo SAB (GMODELOC) , Mexico’s largest
beer maker, jumped the most on record as Anheuser-Busch InBev NV
seeks to buy the rest of the Mexican brewer.  The shares soared 19 percent to 116.87 pesos at the close
in Mexico City, the biggest advance since trading began in
February 1994. The stock exchange halted trading for more than
an hour starting at 8:44 a.m. to demand Modelo disclose
information on what’s causing the market move. The Mexico City-
based brewer subsequently confirmed it is in strategic talks
with  AB InBev (ABI)  to expand its current relationship.  AB InBev, as the world’s-largest brewer is known, may spend
about $20 billion to buy the rest of Modelo, according to a
person with knowledge of the matter. The amount is the
enterprise value for the transaction and would include a premium
for Modelo as well as a payment to  Constellation Brands Inc. (STZ)  to
buy a stake in a distribution joint venture, said the person,
who asked not to be identified because the matter is private. AB
InBev owns a 50 percent stake in Modelo.  “The market has been waiting for this for months,” Raul Ochoa, an analyst at Interacciones Casa de Bolsa, said in a
telephone interview from Mexico City. “They’ll probably accept
the offer.”  The benchmark  IPC index  of 35 Mexican companies rose 0.2
percent, with only seven stocks advancing as 28 retreated.
Modelo has a 3.3 percent weighting on the gauge.  The talks “might or might not” lead to a transaction and
“any speculation on the terms and conditions is premature,”
Modelo said today in its statement to the bourse.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in  Mexico  City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  