-- Oil Declines Below $80 for a Third Day on Euro-Zone Debt
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-06-25T19:28:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/oil-declines-below-80-for-a-third-day-on-euro-zone-debt.html
Oil fell below $80 a barrel for a
third day in New York on concern that a meeting of European
Union leaders this week will fail to check the region’s debt
crisis, leading to a reduction in fuel demand.  Futures dropped 0.7 percent as  George Soros  warned that a
failure by EU leaders to produce drastic measures may spell the
demise of the bloc’s shared currency. Crude climbed earlier as
oil and gas installations in the  Gulf of Mexico  were shut
because of Tropical Storm Debby. Prices slid as the storm moved
toward Florida and away from energy fields.  “The market is hanging on every development out of the
 euro zone ,” said  John Kilduff , a partner at Again Capital LLC,
a New York-based energy hedge fund. “Things don’t look
promising for the summit. Nothing appears to be in the cards
that will end the crisis and an ultimate breakdown looks
likely.”  Oil for August delivery declined 55 cents to settle at
$79.21 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . Futures are
down 20 percent this year. Prices have fallen 23 percent since
the end of March, heading for the biggest quarterly decline
since the final three months of 2008.  Brent oil for August settlement rose 3 cents to end the
session at $91.01 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European benchmark’s  premium  to West Texas
Intermediate, the crude grade traded in New York, was at $11.80,
up from $11.22 on June 22.  Gasoline Rally  The drop in  oil prices  eased as gasoline futures surged on
speculation that refinery closures in  North America  and Europe
may make summer-blend gasoline inventories tight along the U.S.
East Coast. Gasoline for July delivery gained 7.59 cents, or 3
percent, to $2.6458 a gallon in New York, the biggest gain since
Dec. 20.  Policy makers should create a European fiscal authority to
purchase sovereign debt in return for Italy and Spain
implementing achievable budget cuts, Soros said in an interview
in London yesterday. The billionaire investor said German
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  is worsening Europe’s crisis because
countries need growth, not the austerity she has called for.  Merkel, speaking to a conference in Berlin today, dismissed
“euro bonds, euro bills and European  deposit insurance  with
joint liability and much more” as “economically wrong and
counterproductive,” saying that they violate the German
constitution.  The EU begins a two-day meeting June 28 in Brussels.
Leaders will attend pre-summit gatherings as they work to narrow
differences on solutions to the debt crisis.  European Outlook  “We’re focused on Europe’s economic outlook,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi Futures Perspective in New
York. “The movement in oil matches what’s happening with the
equity market and the euro is soft. This is all consistent with
a broad risk-off trade.”  The euro touched $1.2471, the lowest level against the
dollar since June 12. A weaker euro and stronger dollar curb
commodities’ appeal as an alternate investment. The  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index (SPX)  declined 1.4 percent and the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  decreased 1 percent at 3:27 p.m.  “The main driver of this market remains concern about the
European crisis and what that may mean for oil demand,” said
 Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in
Stamford,  Connecticut . “The tropical storm gave us a boost
earlier but is now moving in the wrong direction.”  Tropical Storm  Oil gave up earlier gains after Tropical Storm Debby
shifted away from offshore energy installations. Debby was in
the Gulf of Mexico, about 50 miles (80 kilometers) south of
Apalachicola, Florida, with top winds of 45 miles per hour, the
National Hurricane Center said in an advisory at 2 p.m. New York
time.  Futures climbed 2 percent on June 22 as the developing
storm prompted the evacuation of platforms in the region and as
equities gained.  In Europe, Norwegian offshore workers shut two production
platforms after talks on pensions and wages failed, curtailing
output in Europe’s second-largest oil and gas producing country
after Russia. The strike will cut oil and gas output at  Statoil
ASA (STL) ’s Oseberg and Heidrun fields, and close BP’s Skarv
development, the Norwegian Oil Industry Association said
yesterday.  The walkout by oil-platform workers, which is the first
industrywide action since 2004, targets about 165,000 barrels of
oil equivalent a day, according to the Industry Energy and
Lederne unions.  Hedge Funds  Hedge funds  reduced bullish oil bets to a 19-month low in
the seven days ended June 19, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report on June 22.
Money managers, including funds, commodity pools and commodity
trading advisers, cut wagers for a seventh week, paring futures
and options combined by 5.9 percent to 122,815, the lowest level
since Oct. 1, 2010.  Electronic trading volume on the Nymex was 395,346
contracts as of 3:27 p.m. in  New York . Volume totaled 512,831
contracts June 22, 8.1 percent below the three-month average.
Open interest was 1.42 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  