-- Oil Drops a Second Day as Europe Crisis Threatens Demand
-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 2012-06-26T12:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/oil-trades-below-80-a-fourth-day-on-european-debt-crisis.html
Oil was little changed in  New York 
after a storm avoided the Gulf of Mexico’s energy-producing area
and amid speculation European leaders will fail to stem its debt
crisis that threatens to curb fuel demand.  Futures traded below $80 a barrel for a fourth day, near an
eight-month low, after Tropical Storm Debby was forecast to
bypass the western Gulf and oil companies began returning
workers to platforms.  Germany ’s  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
hardened her resistance to sharing euro-area debt, while HSBC
Holdings Plc cut its growth forecast for  China , the world’s
second-biggest crude user. A government report tomorrow may show
U.S. gasoline stockpiles rose for the third time in four weeks.  “Market sentiment remains negative, focusing on slow
demand and ample supply,” said  Carsten Fritsch , an analyst at
Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt . “The supply risk that supported
oil is fading as production resumes in the Gulf of Mexico.  Oil for August delivery fell as much as 50 cents to $78.71
a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  and was at $79.02 as of 1:07 p.m. in  London . The
contract yesterday slipped 55 cents to $79.21, the lowest close
since June 21. Prices have fallen 23 percent this quarter, the
biggest drop since the final three months of 2008.  Brent Gains  Brent crude  for August settlement rose 46 cents to $91.47 a
barrel on the London-based ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The
European benchmark’s  premium  to West Texas Intermediate was at
$12.43, compared with $11.80 yesterday.  Investors should sell Brent in favor of WTI after the
difference between the two grades widened, according to  Dennis Gartman , author of the Suffolk, Virginia-based Gartman Letter.  “This we think is the time then to sell Brent and buy WTI,
having watched as the spread has been narrowing almost
relentlessly and still likely to make its way toward parity, if
not beyond, remembering that Brent sold for many years at a $1-
to-$2-a-barrel discount to WTI,” he wrote today.  Tropical Storm Debby will move over northern  Florida  in a
day or two before weakening to a depression and re-emerging
later this week in the Atlantic, the National Hurricane Center
said in a 5 a.m. Miami time advisory.  Weather forecasters initially said there was a chance the
storm would pass through the heart of the U.S. Gulf’s energy-
producing area, home to 29 percent of oil production and 40
percent of refinery capacity. Companies including ConocoPhillips
and BP Plc had halted 44 percent of oil and 35 percent of gas
output in the  Gulf of Mexico , according to the U.S. Bureau of
Safety and Environmental Enforcement late yesterday.  EU Summit  Germany rejects the idea of joint liability for European
debt, Merkel said at a conference in Berlin yesterday, as  Spain 
announced it would formally seek aid for its banks. Moody’s
Investors Service cut its ratings of 28 Spanish lenders because
of the country’s sovereign-debt burden and souring real-estate
loans, the agency said in a statement. EU leaders start a two-
day summit in Brussels on June 28.  HSBC reduced its 2012 growth estimate for China to 8.4
percent from 8.6 percent, economists Qu Hongbin and Frederic Neumann said in a note today. Citigroup Inc. lowered its
forecast to 7.8 percent from 8.1 percent in a report dated June
22, citing weaker demand for exports to Europe.  “The markets are really positioning themselves for the
likelihood that we won’t see anything come out of the summit
that makes a meaningful change to the balance of risk in
Europe,” Ric Spooner, a chief market analyst at CMC Markets in
Sydney, said in a telephone interview today.  Iran Oil Ban  The EU ban on Iranian oil imports, which starts July 1,
means 95 percent of the world’s tankers may lose insurance if
they carry cargo from the Gulf state as they’re covered by the
13 members of the London-based  International Group  of P&I Clubs.
 South Korea , which imports all of its crude, said today it may
halt purchases from the Islamic republic after it failed to win
an exemption from EU sanctions that mean tankers shipping the
oil can’t get insurance.  “The looming European Union embargo on Iranian oil may
support Brent as it is also affecting oil flows to other
nations,” Fritsch said.  Iran ’s oil exports may fall as much as 30 percent
“gradually” after sanctions start in part as the nation begins
field maintenances, Ahmed Ghalebani, managing director at
National Iranian Oil Co., said today at a conference in Moscow.  Gasoline Stockpiles  U.S. gasoline stockpiles probably rose 1 million barrels
last week, according to the median estimate of eight analysts in
a Bloomberg News survey before tomorrow’s Energy Department
report. Distillate inventories, a category that includes heating
oil and diesel, probably increased 1.1 million barrels, while
crude stockpiles declined  600,000 barrels , the survey showed.  The  American Petroleum Institute  will release separate
inventory data today. The API collects stockpile information on
a voluntary basis from operators of refineries, bulk terminals
and pipelines. The government requires that reports be filed
with the Energy Department for its weekly survey.  Norway’s three main oil and gas unions will meet on June 29
to discuss whether to escalate a strike over pensions that is
halting about 165,000 barrels a day of oil equivalent, Leif
Sande, president of the Energy Industry union, said in a phone
interview today from Oslo.  The strike began on June 24 and affects offshore platforms
servicing the Oseberg and Heidrun fields in the  North Sea .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  