-- London Chefs Tip U.K. Food, Curries for Olympic Visitors
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-06-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/london-chefs-tip-british-food-hot-curries-for-olympic-visitors.html
Visitors from around the world and
from across the U.K. will be in  London  for the  2012 Olympics 
from July 27 to Aug. 12. Where should they eat?  Here are the recommendations of chefs and restaurateurs:  Tom Aikens  (Tom Aikens): “North Road and Viajante as they
offer something different. The two chefs are talented and not
based in central London, avoiding all the queues.”  Joel Antunes (Kitchen Joel Antunes): “Les Deux Salons.
Anthony Demetre is a great chef and nice man, which is rare
today.”  Jason Atherton (Pollen Street Social): “Burger & Lobster,
the Ledbury and Pitt Cue. I love all three.”  Pascal Aussignac (Club Gascon): “The Delaunay or the
Wolseley to get the London spirit and some Asian places like
Yauatcha because they are worth it. And some proper pubs or
gastropubs to get the inimitable London buzz and try English
food.”  Will Beckett (Hawksmoor): “The Wolseley or the Delaunay,
which are classic  London restaurants , impressive for anyone; the
Ledbury: One of London’s only world-class restaurants. Tourists
should definitely go out and experience some of the different
national foods in London and Tayyabs is one of the best
examples; Anchor & Hope: really good gastropubs are a must for
tourists.”  Vineet Bhatia (Rasoi): “Try the Brixton Village Market for
sheer choice on budget eating. For good Middle Eastern and
Lebanese food, do try Comptoir Libanais on Wigmore Street.
Simple good Indian meals are always a comfort food: head for
Tayyabs or Needoo Grill in East London for grill kababs, or
 Sagar  in Hammersmith for simple vegetarian South Indian food.
For people-watching, try Novikov in Mayfair, the food is simple
but very good quality. For great views and food, your best bet
is Galvin at Windows. Good British grub can be had at the
 Gilbert Scott , and my favorites are Nobu,  Park Lane , and Locanda
Locatelli.”  Claude Bosi (Hibiscus): “They should head for established
areas of London, like Knightsbridge, Mayfair, St. James’s. These
have history, diversity and loads of atmosphere: Parks, great
shopping, good pubs, bars and restaurants. Places like Scott’s
that have great seafood and give you a real sense of just being
in London.”  Richard Corrigan (Corrigan’s Mayfair): “St John for sure,
my good friend (Mark) Hix and, for a quintessentially English
experience, it’s still hard to beat Sweetings in the City.”  Chris Galvin (Galvin Bistrot de Luxe): “They should visit
as many places as possible, from pop-ups to the Square. They
should get a feel for the young-gun restaurateurs, and of course
explore the rich tapestry of our ethnic restaurants.”  Alexis Gauthier (Gauthier): “It may sound a bit odd, but
having dinner on the terrace of Oxo Tower during the Olympics is
probably something that will stick in visitors’ memories.”  Stuart Gillies ( Gordon Ramsay ): “To get a real energy of
the city, I would try the street food at  Maltby Street  market
and the South Bank, wander round and taste from the stalls at
 Borough  and of course  Brick Lane . For people who want to get a
taste of British, St John Bread & Wine, Hix Soho, Dinner by
Heston Blumenthal and J Sheekey.”  Brett Graham  (The Ledbury): “Petersham Nurseries, the
River Cafe and a good English pub.”  Trevor Gulliver (St John): “Enjoy the big and shiny at one
end: The Wolseley, Dinner, the Delaunay, maybe J Sheekey; the
small, good and new(ish) at the other: 10 Greek Street,
Ducksoup, Polpo, Barrafina, Vinoteca. And then all the other
good places dotted around town: Visit Stoke Newington, Hoxton
and Hix’s new Tramshed, Clapham, Southall, Notting Hill fringes,
Vauxhall, back of Oxford Street and Edgware Road. Even Camden,
God forbid. Lots of fun to be had.”  Anna Hansen  (Modern Pantry): “Dabbous if they can get a
reservation. I had an awesome meal there. For an Indian thing, I
really enjoyed Trishna when I went there recently.”  Henry Harris  (Racine): “There is such a remarkable
cultural diversity in London, it would be a shame if people
didn’t take advantage of that. Everyone should take a bottle of
ice-cold Riesling and queue up at Tayyabs for some lamb chops.”  Sam Hart  (Barrafina): “St John -- for my favorite take on
British cuisine.”  Angela Hartnett  (Murano): “Head East and check out all the
fantastic restaurants that are within striking distance of
 Victoria Park , which is going to be amazing, with a large
screen.  So many great options but don’t miss St John Bread &
Wine, the Modern Pantry, Jose and Zucca.  Pierre Koffmann (Koffmann’s): “They should go to a good
Chinese like New Fortune Cookie in Bayswater. And I like
Texture. It’s Icelandic food with French technique.”  Atul Kochhar (Benares): “I would recommend places like
Nobu, Hakkasan, Busaba Eathai, Arbutus,  Wild Honey , Texture and
many more to showcase the diversity of London.”  Jeremy Lee (Quo Vadis): “Rochelle Canteen is a first off
for proximity to the sporty doings, then St John Hotel for a
respite in the center of town and the River Cafe for lunch on
the terrace for a gentle and bonny moment.”  Francesco Mazzei (L’Anima): “If they are lucky enough to
get a table, the Ledbury is a must. Also Bar Boulud is high in
the rankings for an excellent burger. If anyone is venturing
into the Highbury & Islington area, I can highly recommend the
family-run restaurant Juniper.”  Nuno Mendes (Viajante): “Olympic visitors should
definitely go to St John: The place is an amazing English
institution. They must also visit the Fat Duck and the River
Cafe. They are gastronomic landmarks that are recognized across
the world. If they feel adventurous, they should explore East
London for its beautiful hidden gems and also go into Soho. Both
these areas feature some of the most fun and delicious dining
experiences around town.”  Russell Norman (Polpo Soho): “Olympics visitors should try
the excellent E. Pellicci and  G. Kelly  on Bethnal Green Road:
The first is a greasy spoon and the second is an eel, pie & mash
shop. They represent a real flavor of London.”  Simon Rogan (Roganic): “People should go to Goodman for
the best steaks in London, Meatliquor for trendy burgers and
probably for the best of British: Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal .”  Michel Roux Jr. (Le Gavroche): “Get out of central London
and try some of the new little bistros and bars such as Soif, in
Clapham.”  Dave Strauss (Goodman City): “Avoid the chains and do a
little bit of research. If you were here for a week and fitted
in Jose, Opera Tavern, Polpo, Meatliquor, 10 Greek St., Pitt Cue
and squeezed in a bit of women’s beach volleyball, I think you
would go home happy.”  Aggi Sverrisson (Texture): “For anyone looking to understand
British seasonal cooking, go to Quo Vadis, in Soho. Or for that
other British favorite of Indian, try Tayyabs, in Whitechapel.
You can book ahead to beat the queues. If you need to escape, I
would also recommend taking a drive in the British countryside
and heading to Le Manoir aux Quat’Saisons.”  Ben Tish (Salt Yard): “Quo Vadis for a slice of British 
cooking at its best. Dabbous or the Ledbury to see how cutting 
edge London is. Nopi is another favorite of mine. The food is 
fresh, health, interesting and delicious.”  Ewan Venters (formerly of Selfridges): There are two key
restaurants: The Tramshed as Mark Hix and what he does there is
a fantastic representation of food served in a simple way with
fantastic ingredients. Jason Atherton at Pollen Street Social
because Jason (Atherton) represents the transformation in
British cooking in the past decade and produces wonderfully
skilled food that represents modern Britain.”  Marcus Wareing  (Marcus Wareing at the Berkeley): “I’m sure
I’m not the only person to recommend the Delaunay: Great
location, great food and great service.”  Bryn Williams (Odette’s): “It’s a great time to showcase
Great British and Irish talent so on the one-hand I want to say
places like Bentley’s, even the Camden Bar & Kitchen for a good
old-fashioned breakfast. London is a great place for eating out
because of its diversity and the fact that visitors can try a
different cuisine every night of the week to suit all tastes and
budgets. It would be a shame, for instance, for anyone to visit
London without a trip down Brick Lane, a must for curry fans.”  Jad Youssef (Yalla Yalla): “Visitors should go to small
authentic restaurants and enjoy the cozy atmosphere and tasty
home-made food, such as Alounak, on Westbourne Grove.”  Muse highlights include Farah Nayeri on the arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 