-- Honduran Lawmaker Denounces DEA Raid That Killed Drug Suspect
-- B y   E r i c   S a b o   a n d   A d a m   W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-25T22:43:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/honduran-lawmaker-denounces-dea-raid-that-killed-drug-suspect.html
A joint Honduran-U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration mission violated the law when a DEA
agent killed an alleged narco-trafficker in a June 22 raid in
the Central American country, a congressman from President Porfirio Lobo’s ruling party said.  “At no time does the DEA or any military force have the
right to kill people,” Maylo Wood, a lawmaker with Lobo’s
 National Party  who represents the region in eastern  Honduras 
where the shooting took place, said in a phone interview from
Tegucigalpa. “It isn’t acceptable that the military goes in and
kills people suspected of being involved in illicit activities
without attempting to capture them and following proper legal
protocol.”  Three DEA agents were embedded with Honduran police in the
anti-narcotics raid that netted 360 kilograms (794 pounds) of
cocaine. The DEA has increased its presence in Honduras as drug
cartels deepen roots in Central America. About 79 percent of
cocaine-smuggling flights departing South America first land in
Honduras, according to the U.S. State Department.  Four suspects were arrested in the assault, while a fifth
resisted and pulled a gun, leaving the U.S. officer no choice
but to fire, said Rusty Payne, a DEA spokesman in  Washington .  ‘Self Defense’  “The suspect refused to surrender and the agent shot him
in self-defense,” Payne said in a phone interview. “As with
any shooting incident, the DEA will launch a full
investigation.”  The Honduran government has sent a “high level” team to
the site to investigate the incident, Security Minister Pompeyo
Bonilla said in an e-mailed statement.  The latest shooting followed a DEA and Honduran mission in
the same area on May 11, which resulted in the death of a
teenage boy and two pregnant women. No U.S. agents fired weapons
during that incident, according to the security ministry.  The U.S. will continue to train Honduran police and assist
anti-narcotics operations as the government struggles to contain
drug violence, Payne said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Sabo in Panama City at 
 esabo1@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Williams in  San Jose ,  Costa Rica  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  