-- Hong Kong Protesters Vow to Stay as HSBC Seeks Eviction
-- B y   S i m o n   L e e
-- 2012-06-25T06:06:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/hong-kong-protesters-vow-to-stay-put-as-hsbc-seeks-eviction.html
Hong Kong’s Occupy Central
protesters have vowed to remain at the ground floor of the
 HSBC Holdings Plc (5)  headquarters in the city after the bank
applied to a court to evict them.  The city’s  High Court  will hear the application on July
16. The demonstrators rejected an earlier request by HSBC that
they voluntarily pack up their tents and leave the premises.
The bank named the occupiers of the Central site and three
other individuals as defendants in its lawsuit, according to a
filing to the High Court of Hong Kong.  “We have worked with the relevant authorities regarding
this matter, including the police,”  Gareth Hewett , an HSBC
spokesman, said in an e-mailed statement. The bank will decide
on its next step pending the outcome of the court case, he
said.  The eight-month protest in Hong Kong is the latest in the
global Occupy Movement, which started in  New York  last year,
to face eviction. Police in  London  removed campaigners in
London on June 14; while in the U.S., New York and Oakland,
 California , demonstrations ended in a confrontation with
authorities in November.  About 20 tents, a couple sofas and bookshelves were
scattered around the Hong Kong plaza today as the
demonstrators sat around playing musical instruments or
engaging passersby.  Discuss Strategy  Tiv Wong, one of the  Hong Kong  demonstrators, said she
hadn’t received notice of the lawsuit and the group doesn’t
plan to give up its protest. Jojo Wong, a 22-year-old occupant
at the site, said the 40-odd occupiers will discuss the
strategy in the light of the lawsuit.  “I hope to maintain my little corner there,” said Ho
Yiu-shing, one of the defendants named by HSBC in the lawsuit.
He said he had written to the bank to ask for permission to
remain there, and that he will decide on his next move after
he has studied the court documents.  The occupation in Hong Kong seeks to create a community
space for discussion and sharing of the group’s ideals, Occupy
Central activists said in a statement on its Facebook page.  The bank named “The Occupiers of the Ground Floor of 1
Queen’s Road Central, Hong Kong,” Wong Chung-hang and Mui
Kai-ming as the other defendants in the lawsuit, according to
the documents.  HSBC said earlier that it asked the protesters to leave
so that it can host community events. The site is the bank’s
property and is designated as a pedestrian area, according to
the court documents filed by the lender.  The bank asked the court to rule that the protesters do
not have a license or consent to occupy the area, according to
the documents.  Hong Kong is one of the several Asian cities, including
Seoul, Taipei and  Tokyo , that have seen protests inspired by
the  Occupy Wall Street  movement in New York that began in
September 17, 2011.  The U.S. demonstration started as way to highlight “the
role of  Wall Street  in creating an economic collapse,”
according to the  Occupy Wall Street  website. The action spread
to more than 1,500 cities worldwide, it said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net   To contact the reporters for this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net  