-- Mongolian Mining Drops to Record Low on Investment Rule Concerns
-- B y   P a t r i c k   B o e h l e r
-- 2012-06-25T10:30:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/mongolian-mining-drops-to-record-low-on-investment-rule-concerns.html
Mongolian Mining Corp. (975) , the nation’s
biggest coking coal exporter, slumped to a record low on
speculation investment rules will be tightened after this week’s
parliamentary elections.  The Hong Kong-listed coal producer fell 3.1 percent to
HK$4.70 at the close, the lowest since the shares started
trading in October 2010.  Modun Resources Ltd. (MOU) , an Australian
company that’s developing a thermal coal project in Mongolia,
fell 6.7 percent in Sydney and  Xanadu Mines Ltd. (XAM)  dropped 4.9
percent.  SouthGobi Resources Ltd. (SGQ)  fell 1.23% in Hong Kong.  There’s growing concern among Mongolia’s citizens about the
way politicians are handling the country’s mineral resources.
Lawmakers, seeking to control ownership of assets, approved a
law in May requiring parliament to approve deals in which
overseas investors hold more than 49 percent of the equity and
for transactions exceeding $75 million in strategic sectors,
including mining.  “Whatever the result will be, there will be a
deterioration in the investment climate in  Mongolia ,” said
Stanislav Chuyev, an analyst with Visor Capital Joint Stock Co.
in Almaty, Kazakhstan. “There’s just a risk that in the future,
companies will be required to transfer more funds to ordinary
people in the form of corporate social responsibility.”  Mongolian Mining spokeswoman Khatantuul Tuvdendargaa, based
in Ulan Bator, declined to comment when contacted on her mobile
phone.  “We’re in a pre-election phase in Mongolia, so the
investment community is waiting to see what happens,” said
Chris Mardon, managing director of Subiaco, Australia-based
Modun Resources. Calls to Xanadu’s Sydney office and SouthGobi’s
Vancouver office outside working hours weren’t answered.  The passage of the law curbing foreign investment was
accelerated after a public outcry following moves in April by
Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd. to buy SouthGobi Resources.
Parliamentary elections are scheduled in Mongolia on June 28.  Mongolia has gold,  iron ore , copper and coal, and its 10
biggest mineral deposits are worth more than $1.3 trillion,
according to estimates by Quam Asset Management.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patrick Boehler in Hong Kong at 
 pboehler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  