-- Moody’s Defied as Banks Advance Among Investors
-- B y   Z e k e   F a u x
-- 2012-06-25T15:45:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/moody-s-defied-as-banks-advance-among-investors.html
When Moody’s Investors Service
greeted the start of summer by lowering the credit ratings on 15
of the world’s largest banks, citing the increased chance of
“outsized losses,” major newspapers dutifully reported the
event with headlines such as “Move Adds Pressure to Borrowing
Costs,” “Downgrades Add to Market Jitters” and “Mark of
Greater Risk.”  None of these declarations of calamity is proving to be
true four days later. Every measure of risk in the credit
markets shows the banks enjoy greater confidence among investors
now than before Moody’s said the downgrades reflected a
deteriorating outlook. An investor who bought $1 million of
 Citigroup (C)  Inc.’s 4.5 percent benchmark bonds due January 2022 on
June 21 has a profit of $21,400. The bank’s shares are up about
10 percent since June 1.  Moody’s downgrades are “the most obscene act I’ve ever
seen by a major institution,”  Richard Bove , an analyst at
Rochdale Securities, said in an interview with  Tom Keene  and Ken
Prewitt on Bloomberg Television’s “Surveillance” on June 22.
“What we’ve seen is a consistent increase in the prices of bank
debt and a consistent decrease in the yield. And now we’ve got
Moody’s coming along, downgrading the debt of companies where
the investors are finding a real desire to purchase.”  Limited Confidence  The conflict between investors, who own $2.2 trillion of
debt sold by the 15 banks, and Moody’s shows that money managers
have limited confidence in the ability of rating firms to
determine whether companies or governments are creditworthy. For
the third time in less than a year, the conclusions of credit-
rating companies are being rejected by the people with the most
at stake: investors in the $43 trillion global fixed-income
market.  Moody’s, which helped start the business of ranking
companies by their ability to repay debt in 1909, at this point
has little credibility after lowering ratings on the 15 banks
from  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  to  UBS AG (UBSN) , the market measures
show. After New York-based Moody’s said the banks had become
riskier borrowers, their bonds rallied and the cost to insure
their debt against non-payment diminished.  While the banks subjected to Moody’s examination have
boosted their capital by $591 billion since the global financial
crisis ignited by the failure of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.,
Moody’s has lowered their credit grades an average four levels.
To investors, they have become more creditworthy, as yields on
their bonds fell to an average 4.09 percent from 8.46 percent in
October 2008 and prices of credit-default swaps dropped 5
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Treasuries Rally  In August, when  Standard & Poor’s  cut the credit grade of
the U.S. government from AAA for the first time, Treasuries
staged the biggest rally since December 2008, returning 2.8
percent that month as investors repudiated the decision, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  S&P’s decision was flawed by a $2 trillion error, according
to the Treasury Department. The ratings company has said there
was no mistake. Treasuries are beating all other U.S. fixed-
income securities this quarter, gaining 2.89 percent since the
end of March compared with 2.1 percent for investment-grade
corporates, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.  After S&P reduced France’s grade to AA+ on Jan. 13, its
bonds returned 0.46 percent through the end of the month versus
0.35 percent for AAA rated corporate debt denominated in euros.
France’s newly elected President  Francois Hollande , who has
advocated a government-funded agency as an alternative to S&P
and Moody’s, is seeking to revive the nation’s economy through
spending and growth rather than austerity measures.  Coin Flip  Predicting the consequences of a sovereign rating change by
Moody’s or S&P may be little different from a coin flip. Almost
half the time, government bond yields fall when a rating action
suggests they should climb, or they increase when a change
signals a decline, according to Bloomberg data on 314 upgrades,
downgrades and outlook changes going back as far as 38 years.  The rates moved in the opposite direction 47 percent of the
time for Moody’s and for S&P. The data measured yields after a
month relative to Treasury debt, the global benchmark.  On June 22, the day after Moody’s cut the banks’ ratings,
the extra yield investors demand to hold bonds of financial
companies rather than government debentures narrowed 2 basis
points to 284 basis points, or 2.84 percentage points, the
lowest in more than five weeks, Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index data show. Spreads are down from this year’s high of 361
on Jan. 3.  ‘Overhyped Story’  Credit-default swaps, which pay the buyer face value if a
borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the value of the
defaulted debt, declined an average 3 percent, Bloomberg prices
show.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  swaps decreased 7 percent.  “We view the Moody’s downgrade as another overhyped story
of 2012,”  David Trone , an analyst at JMP Securities LLC, wrote
to his clients. “The corporate market thinks for itself and
credit rating agencies are often lagging indicators.”  When Moody’s announced its review in February, it listed
“higher credit spreads” and “more fragile funding
conditions” as key challenges for global banks.  Among the reasons that Moody’s cited for its moves last
week were regulations poised to limit profits and trading risks.  “All of the banks affected by today’s actions have
significant exposure to the volatility and risk of outsized
losses inherent to capital-markets activities,” Greg Bauer,
Moody’s global banking managing director, said in a June 21
statement.  Trading Loss  JPMorgan Chase & Co. announced a trading loss of more than
$2 billion on May 10 stemming from credit derivatives bets made
in its London chief investment office.  “That exemplified some of the issues, and exact issues,
that we had highlighted back in February when we began the
review around opacity of risk and the potential for tail risk
and the difficulty in risk managing some of these firms,” Bob Young, managing director of North American banking at Moody’s,
said in a telephone interview on June 21.  Absent the potential for government support, the average
rating for global investment banks is Baa2, which means Moody’s
expects about one in 25 of the firms to fail over a 10-year
period, the ratings company said in a  report . The analysis cited
examples from Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc.’s 1990 collapse to the
run on MF Global Holdings Ltd. last year.  ‘Completely Unwarranted’  Moody’s took improved access to cash and stronger capital
positions into account for some of the banks it downgraded,
saying in its report that the cuts would otherwise have been
greater.  The banks said Moody’s isn’t giving them enough credit for
the steps they’ve taken to build capital cushions and improve
oversight of risky trading.  Citigroup, the third-largest U.S. bank by assets, said in a
statement that the downgrade was “arbitrary and completely
unwarranted.” Morgan Stanley, owner of the world’s largest
brokerage, said its ratings don’t reflect the actions taken to
cut risk. Both are based in New York.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , the
second-biggest U.S. lender, said it has strengthened capital and
risk management.  “It’s all rearview mirror stuff,”  Paul Miller , an analyst
at FBR Capital Markets, said of the bank downgrades in a
Bloomberg Television interview on June 22.  Stress Tests  Banks have heeded calls to add to safety margins in the
aftermath of the credit crisis by selling businesses and raising
capital. In 2010, the 27-country Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision more than doubled its minimum capital requirement
for the largest firms to almost 9 percent of risk-weighted
assets from 4 percent.  The Federal Reserve’s stress tests in March showed that 15
of the 19 largest U.S. banks could maintain adequate capital
levels even in a recession scenario in which they continue to
pay dividends and buy back stock.  Moody’s, along with S&P and Fitch Ratings, helped fuel the
global housing bubble by awarding AAA ratings to bonds tied to
subprime mortgages to homebuyers with poor credit, augmenting
demand for securities, which resulted in more housing loans to
riskier borrowers and the creation of more bonds backed by the
debt. The rating companies engaged in a “race to the bottom,”
inflating credit grades to win business from Wall Street banks,
a Senate panel reported last year.  Undeserved Ratings  When the homeowners couldn’t keep up with their payments,
real-estate prices tumbled, defaults soared, thousands of the
bonds plunged in value and investors, no longer able to
accurately value their securities, froze. The credit crisis that
followed resulted in $1.5 trillion in bank writedowns and losses
that forced governments to bail out banking systems.  Those soured securities were part of the reason the U.S.
set up a $700 billion program in 2008 to bolster the financial
industry. The crisis also spurred $787 billion of tax cuts and
spending to help the U.S. economy.  The banks never deserved the ratings they had before the
2008 credit crisis,  James Camp , managing director of fixed
income in  St. Petersburg , Florida, at Eagle Asset Management
Inc., said June 22 in a Bloomberg Television interview. Lehman
was  rated  A2 by Moody’s in September 2008 before it collapsed.  “Rating agencies are fighting the last war,”  David Hendler , an analyst at CreditSights Inc. in New York, wrote in a
report dated June 22. “Moody’s did not seem to acknowledge and
factor in real balance sheet improvement.”  The downgrades brought Moody’s average rating for the 15
banks to A3, four levels above junk, from Aa2 in October 2008,
Bloomberg data show. High-risk, high-yield bonds are rated below
Baa3 by Moody’s and BBB- by S&P.  Relief Rally  Investors reacted with relief last week after Morgan
Stanley, which faced a potential three-step cut, was downgraded
two levels to Baa1. Its average bond yields fell to 5.18
percent, compared with 16.3 percent in October 2008, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show.  Credit-default swaps on debt of Morgan Stanley declined
27.4 basis points on June 22 to a mid-price of 353.9 basis
points, Bloomberg data show.  Swaps on the 15 banks cut by Moody’s fell to an average of
239.9 basis points on June 22 from 246.7 a day earlier,
Bloomberg data show.  The contracts typically fall as investor confidence
improves and rise as it deteriorates. A basis point equals
$1,000 annually on a swap protecting $10 million of debt.  Goldman Sachs  Morgan Stanley’s $2.45 billion of 5.5 percent notes due
July 2021 rose 2.1 cents on June 22 to 99.9 cents on the dollar,
according to Trace, the bond-price reporting system of the
Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America was lowered
one step to Baa2 from Baa1. Its bonds yield 4.37 percent, down
from 6.41 percent in June 2008, when it was rated Aa2, the
lender’s index data show.  Default swaps on New York-based Goldman Sachs fell 14.7
basis points to 279.5 basis points, even though its rating was
lowered to A3 from A1. The swaps traded as high as 502.5 in
October 2008.  “The overall credit quality of U.S. banks is improving,”
Krishna Memani, director of fixed income at OppenheimerFunds
Inc., said in an interview  Betty Liu  on Bloomberg Television’s
“In the Loop” on June 22. “Spreads are tightening as we had
expected that they would.”  Zero Percent  Average spreads on Zurich-based UBS, Switzerland’s largest
bank, narrowed 3 basis points to 310 basis points, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch index data show. That compares with 469 on
Oct. 1, 2008.  “This time the market got it right,”  Marilyn Cohen ,
president of Envision Capital Management Inc. in Los Angeles,
said in an e-mail. “Poor Moody’s. Their big splash turned out
to be a belly flop.”  The average spread of 284 basis points on global financial
debt is down from a high of 683 in March 2009. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has held the benchmark lending rate in the U.S. near
zero percent since late 2008 and the European Central Bank began
offering unlimited loans to the region’s lenders in December.  “All the liquidity in the world is being made available by
Mr. Bernanke and friends,” Eagle’s Camp said.  Moody’s left all the U.S. banks that it downgraded on
negative outlook, meaning their grades may be cut again because
of uncertainty over government support. Moody’s said in the
statement that bondholders bailouts are becoming “less
predictable” because of the “evolving attitude” of
policymakers.  Europe Crisis  “They’re really shifting their whole approach to rating
these companies,”  Gerard Cassidy , a bank equity analyst with
 RBC Capital Markets , said in a telephone interview. “What
Moody’s is saying and trying to address is that ‘our ratings
were wrong three years ago.’”  While U.S. banks’ credit has improved since 2008, that’s
not the case for many European lenders caught up in the
continent’s sovereign debt crisis. The region’s regulators have
also made changes designed to impose losses on bondholders when
banks collapse and have to be rescued. Bank spreads in Europe
have climbed to 292 basis points as of June 22 from this year’s
low of 253 on March 20.  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost of protecting
corporate bonds from default in the U.S. rose, with the Markit
CDX North America Investment Grade Index, which investors use to
hedge against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness,
climbing 4.5 basis points to a mid-price of 119.8 basis points
as of 11:39 a.m. in New York, Bloomberg prices show.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
bond market stress, dropped 0.94 basis point to 22.28 basis
points as of 11:39 a.m. in New York. The gauge narrows when
investors favor assets such as corporate bonds and widens when
they seek the perceived safety of government securities.  Bonds of  General Electric Co. (GE)  are the most actively traded
dollar-denominated corporate securities by dealers today, with
38 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:39 a.m. in New York,
Trace data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zeke Faux at 
 zfaux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  