-- Moody’s Downgrades 28 Spanish Banks on Sovereign Risk
-- B y   C h a r l e s   P e n t y   a n d   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-06-26T14:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/moody-s-downgrades-28-spanish-banks-on-sovereign-risk.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN)  and  Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA (BBVA) ,  Spain ’s largest lenders, were downgraded
by Moody’s Investors Service because of the country’s sovereign
debt and souring real estate loans.  While Santander and BBVA remained investment grade, at
least a dozen lenders were lowered to junk status, Moody’s said
yesterday in a statement. The ratings company downgraded six
banks by four levels and 10 by three grades, with the rest
getting one- and two-tier declines.  “In Spain you have a combination of a significant
sovereign debt burden coupled with a collapsing real estate
market,” said Bruce Simon, chief investment officer at Los
Angeles-based City National Bank, which manages $14 billion in
client assets and doesn’t own debt issued by the lenders.
“That’s doubling the pressure on Spanish banks.”  Moody’s issued a three-step reduction in Spain’s credit
grade on June 13, citing the debt, a weakening economy and
limited access to capital markets. Spain was lowered to Baa3,
the lowest investment-grade rating, from A3 and remains on
review for a further cut after announcing plans to borrow 100
billion euros ($125 billion) from European Union rescue funds to
recapitalize banks.  Shares Fall  CaixaBank SA (CABK)  fell 3.9 percent at 4:05 p.m. in  Madrid , while
 Bankia SA (BKIA) , which was nationalized last month, fell 6.8 percent,
and Banco Popular Espanol SA lost 4.6 percent. Santander, which
kept a higher rating than the Spanish sovereign, was little
changed.  The lenders are facing the “reduced creditworthiness” of
the nation as well as the “expectation that exposures to
commercial real estate will likely cause higher losses, which
might increase the likelihood that these banks will require
external support,” the ratings firm said in its statement.  Santander had its long-term debt rating cut to Baa2 from
A3. That’s one step higher than the sovereign rating because of
the Madrid-based lender’s geographical diversification and
“manageable” level of direct exposure to Spanish debt, Moody’s
said. BBVA, based in Bilbao, is rated Baa3, down from A3.  The ratings company, based in  New York , also downgraded 16
Spanish banks on May 17.  Government’s Credit  The latest cuts reflect the government’s reduced
creditworthiness, which lessens its ability to support the
lenders, as well as Moody’s expectation that losses linked to
commercial real estate will keep rising, according to
yesterday’s statement.  Moody’s downgraded 15 global banks last week, saying their
 capital-markets  businesses suffered from volatility and the
potential for “outsized losses,” according to a statement. The
ratings firm also cited the companies’ exposure to  Europe . The
ratings on  Bank of America Corp.  and  Citigroup Inc. (C)  were cut to
two levels above junk.  Concern that Spain will struggle to bail out its banks as
their loan losses mount has driven up the country’s borrowing
costs. The extra yield investors demand to hold Spain’s 10-year
bonds rather than German bunds swelled to 522 basis points today
from 517 basis points yesterday. A basis point is a hundredth of
a percentage point.  Parliament Questions  Spain requested the banking bailout in a letter yesterday
to Luxembourg’s  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads the group of
euro-area finance ministers. Economy Minister Luis de Guindos
told lawmakers in Madrid today that lenders receiving public
funds may have to remove risky assets from their balance sheets.
Some conditions will apply solely to bailed-out lenders while
others will be “horizontal” for the industry, de Guindos said.  Moody’s “views positively the broad-based support measures
being introduced by the Spanish government to support the
Spanish banking system as a whole,” analysts including Greg Bauer, global banking managing director, said in the statement.
The ratings firm will assess the impact of the measures “once
the final amount, timing and form of funds flowing to each
individual bank are known.”  The government of Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  published
results of stress tests on June 21 that showed Spain’s banks may
need as much as 62 billion euros of capital to withstand a
worst-case economic scenario.  Oliver Wyman Ltd. estimated banks would need 51 billion
euros to 62 billion euros should Spanish gross domestic product
shrink by 6.5 percent over three years and housing prices drop
60 percent from their peak. Roland Berger Strategy Consultants
said lenders would need 51.8 billion euros under those
conditions.  The ratio of bad loans to total lending at Spain’s banks
surged to 8.72 percent in April, the highest since 1994, from
less than 1 percent in 2007, according to Bank of Spain data.
Lenders have 184 billion euros of what the regulator terms
problematic assets after taking real estate onto their books
following the collapse of Spain’s property boom in 2008.  “Moody’s action was fairly well telegraphed,” said Blake Howells, an analyst at  Portland , Oregon-based Becker Capital
Management Inc., which oversees $2.3 billion. “The market is
well aware of the challenges these banks face.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Charles Penty in Madrid  at 
 cpenty@bloomberg.net ;
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net ;
 Rick Green  at 
 rgreen18@bloomberg.net  