-- Top Court Rejects Appeal on Foreign Bank Account Subpoena
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-25T14:31:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/top-court-rejects-appeal-on-foreign-bank-account-subpoena.html
The U.S. Supreme Court declined to
step into a dispute about whether the government, in a tax-
evasion probe, can make a former  UBS AG (UBSN)  client turn over records
about Swiss bank accounts without violating his constitutional
right against self-incrimination.  The justices rejected an appeal by a man, identified by the
initials M.H., who was held in contempt of court for refusing to
comply with a grand jury subpoena seeking records that foreign-
account holders are required to keep under the federal Bank
Secrecy Act.  Questions about when the Fifth Amendment’s protections
against self-incrimination apply to demands for banking or tax
records could affect the government’s attempt to crack down on
the use of secret foreign accounts to hide money from U.S. tax
liability.  M.H. was among about 250 taxpayers whose secret accounts
were disclosed by UBS as part of a February 2009 agreement in
which  Switzerland ’s largest bank agreed to pay $780 million to
avoid U.S. prosecution on a charge that it helped Americans
evade taxes. In 2010, UBS provided the U.S. with almost 4,500
additional names, M.H.’s appeal said.  M.H. “is a non-citizen permanent resident of the  United
States  and the target of a grand jury investigation seeking to
determine whether he used secret Swiss bank accounts to evade
his federal income taxes,” the Justice Department said in a
court brief.  Failing to Report  M.H. said the grand jury’s demand violated his Fifth
Amendment rights because -- even leaving aside potential tax-
evasion questions -- he could face felony charges for failing to
report some accounts or to keep all records required by the bank
secrecy law.  “If the act of producing documents is incriminating, it is
no less incriminating because the records were required to be
kept,” M.H.’s appeal argued. “Across the country, the
government is using grand jury subpoenas to require individuals
to either produce incriminating foreign bank records or admit to
the felony of not maintaining the records.”  If account holders can be required to produce the records,
M.H. argued, authorities shouldn’t be allowed to use
incriminating information to prosecute them.  Because having foreign bank accounts isn’t illegal, it’s
not self-incriminating to require people to keep account records
and provide them to tax authorities, the  Justice Department  said
in opposing M.H.’s appeal.  Voluntary Participation  “The Fifth Amendment privilege does not extend to records
required to be kept as a result of an individual’s voluntary
participation in a regulated activity,” the Justice Department
brief said. “His decision to hold foreign bank accounts is
voluntary and subject to regulatory requirements.”  The San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
had upheld the government’s right to demand the records.  The Justice Department said the high court should also
reject the appeal because, in this case, M.H. has already turned
over information sought in the subpoena to avoid jail for
contempt of court. That makes the issue moot, at least unless
prosecutors use the information to charge M.H. with a crime, the
government said.  The case is M.H. v. U.S., 11-1026.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  