-- Top Court Won’t Consider Cross at U.S. Veterans’ Memorial
-- B y   L a u r i e   A s s e o
-- 2012-06-25T14:12:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/top-court-won-t-consider-cross-at-u-s-veterans-memorial.html
The U.S. Supreme Court rejected an
Obama administration appeal aimed at preserving a 29-foot
Christian cross at a veterans’ memorial on federal land in  San
Diego ,  California .  The justices, without comment, left intact a federal
appeals court decision that the display of the cross is an
unconstitutional government endorsement of religion. The federal
government took over the site from the city in 2006 under a law
Congress passed during a court fight over the cross that began
in 1989.  The appeals court ruling “called for the government to
tear down a cross that has stood without incident for 58 years
as a highly venerated memorial to the nation’s fallen service
members,” the Obama administration said in its appeal to the
high court.  Those challenging the display, a Vietnam veteran and the
Jewish War Veterans of the  United States of America , said the
cross was “erected for an avowedly religious purpose and used
for religious ceremonies for decades.”  Lower courts haven’t completed consideration of the case. A
San Francisco-based appeals court returned the case to a federal
judge to consider a remedy. The appellate panel said it is
leaving open the issue of whether the memorial could be modified
to comply with the Constitution or whether any cross could be
displayed there.  First Amendment  The case is the latest in a long line of disputes over the
Constitution’s First Amendment mandate that “Congress shall
make no law respecting an establishment of religion.” In 2005,
the court said governments can post the Ten Commandments on
public property as part of a broader display of historical or
moral symbols, as long as officials aren’t trying to promote
religion.  In 2002, the court upheld tax-funded school vouchers if
parents have a “genuine choice” not to send their children to
religious schools.  “The goal of avoiding governmental endorsement does not
require eradication of all religious symbols in the public
realm,” Justice  Anthony Kennedy  wrote in a 2010 case when the
court bolstered efforts to keep a smaller cross, less than eight
feet tall, in California’s Mojave National Preserve.  A cross was first erected on Mount Soledad in San Diego in
1913, and the present one was dedicated in 1954. Including its
base, the cross is 43 feet tall and can be seen from miles away,
according to the San Francisco-based 9th U.S. Circuit Court of
Appeals decision.  American Flag  Two Vietnam veterans sued the city in 1989 and won a court
ruling that the cross display violated the California
Constitution. In the 1990s, the 9th Circuit said, other elements
were added to make the cross the centerpiece of a war memorial,
including 2,100 stone plaques honoring veterans, 23 posts
honoring veterans’ groups and an American flag flying from a
large flagpole.  After the city unsuccessfully sought court approval to sell
the memorial to a private association, Congress passed
legislation in 2006 allowing the federal government to acquire
it. Vietnam veteran Steve Trunk and the Jewish veterans’ group
sued and argued the display violated the Constitution.  A federal judge ruled against the challenge, saying
Congress acted with a secular purpose in acquiring the land for
the U.S. government. The 9th Circuit court reversed.  “We cannot overlook the fact that the cross is 43 feet
tall,” the appeals court said. “The size and prominence of the
cross evokes a message of aggrandizement and universalization of
religion.”  Sign of Disrespect  In appealing to the  Supreme Court , Justice Department
lawyers said that requiring the government to reconfigure the
memorial would be a sign of disrespect to the veterans it is
intended to honor.  “The current cross is integrated into an entire memorial
that promotes a secular message,” government lawyers said.  Trunk and the Jewish veterans’ group said the site wasn’t
turned into a war memorial until after the 1989 legal challenge
was filed. “It remains much higher and more visible than any
other element of the display,” they said.  The cases are Mount Soledad Memorial Association v. Trunk,
11-998, and U.S. v. Trunk, 11-1115.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurie Asseo in Washington at 
 lasseo1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  