-- Top Fitzgerald Deputy Named Acting Chicago U.S. Attorney
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-06-25T17:43:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/top-fitzgerald-deputy-named-acting-chicago-u-s-attorney.html
U.S. Attorney Patrick J. Fitzgerald
in Chicago, who is stepping down June 29, will be provisionally
succeeded by his top deputy, Gary S. Shapiro.  “ Gary Shapiro  is a prosecutor’s prosecutor,” Fitzgerald
said today in a  Justice Department  statement. Shapiro has served
as first assistant U.S. attorney for 14 years and has worked for
the department in Chicago since 1972.  Fitzgerald’s office won convictions of I. Lewis “Scooter” Libby, an ex-White House aide; former Illinois governors  Rod Blagojevich  and George H. Ryan; and Hollinger International Inc.
Chairman  Conrad Black . The prosecutor announced his resignation
last month after almost 11 years in the job.  Fitzgerald, 51, an appointee of Republican President  George W. Bush , took office in September 2001 as U.S. attorney for the
Northern District of Illinois, which comprises 18 counties and 9
million people. President  Barack Obama  hasn’t named a successor,
who will need  Senate  confirmation.  Lawyers who have also been Chicago’s top federal prosecutor
include Chairman Dan K. Webb of the law firm Winston & Strawn
LLP; former Illinois Governor James R. Thompson, also a Winston
& Strawn partner; and Scott R. Lassar, a partner at Sidley
Austin LLP. Both law firms are based in Chicago.  Shapiro, 65, has been the office’s top deputy since 1998.
He previously was chief of its criminal division, supervising
investigations into corruption, corporate fraud, organized
crime, international terrorism and terrorism financing, the
Justice Department said.  Organized Crime  Shapiro oversaw organized-crime prosecutions in Illinois,
Indiana and Wisconsin from 1984 to 1990, according to the
government. The office has a staff of more than 170 prosecutors
and about 230 support personnel.  U.S. Senators  Richard Durbin , a Democrat, and Republican
 Mark Kirk  agreed on a process to select Fitzgerald’s permanent
replacement, Durbin said today in a statement.  That process will start with the creation of a bipartisan
six-person screening committee drawn from the state’s legal
community, Durbin said. He and Kirk will each select three
members of that panel including one co-chairman.  Kirk and Durbin will review the committee’s
recommendations, interview finalists and ultimately agree upon a
list of nominees to be provided to the president.  Obama must then submit that nomination to the U.S. Senate
Judiciary Committee, upon which Durbin serves. Its approval
would send the nominee on to the full Senate for a vote. The
nominee confirmation process takes two to four months, according
to the Durbin-issued statement.  “Our Illinois panelists will conduct a nationwide search
to identify the top candidates for U.S. Attorney,” Kirk said in
the same statement. “This non-partisan process ensures the
nominee will maintain the continuity of fighting corruption that
Patrick Fitzgerald has established.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in  Chicago 
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 