-- Orbotech Tumbles as TV Demand Weakens: Israel Overnight
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-26T13:56:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/orbotech-tumbles-as-tv-demand-weakens-israel-overnight.html
Orbotech Ltd. (ORBK)  fell for a third day
in  New York , capping the longest losing streak in a month, on
mounting concern slowing television sales will crimp demand for
the Israeli company’s quality-control equipment.  Orbotech, the Israeli maker of equipment used to test
screens for televisions, smartphones and tablets, dropped 1.7
percent to $9.27 yesterday in New York, extending its three-day
decline to 3.4 percent. Shares of the company are headed for the
first quarterly retreat since the three months ended September
2011. The  Bloomberg Israel-US Equity Index (ISRA25BN)  of the biggest
Israeli companies traded in New York lost 1.2 percent to 81
yesterday, the lowest level in three weeks.  Samsung Electronics Co., the world’s biggest maker of flat
screens, had its profit estimate cut at Taurus Investment &
Securities Co. yesterday, which cited weaker-than-expected
demand for  televisions . Orbotech said this month that a criminal
investigation of engineers in its South Korean unit could result
in fines of $1.3 million. The company will probably say on Aug.
1 that  second-quarter sales  fell 34 percent, according to the
mean estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The numbers are looking relatively weak for televisions
and smartphones and that causes worry about what’s going to
happen in the next six to nine months,” Andrew Abrams, an
analyst at Avian Securities Inc., said by phone yesterday from
New York. “Then you have uncertainty about the fines from the
investigation. Those two issues combined are causing investors
to throw in the towel and sell the stock.”  Product Sales  Israel ’s benchmark  TA-25 Index (TA-25)  fell 0.1 percent to 1,064.68
at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv , taking its quarterly decline
to 5.4 percent, compared with a slide of 9.8 percent for the
Israel-US Equity Index. Shares of Orbotech have fallen 20
percent in the second quarter.  Yavne, Israel-based Orbotech will probably say sales fell
to $101 million in the three months ended June 30, down from
$153 million in the year-earlier period, according to the mean
estimate of analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The company reported
a 25 percent first-quarter slump in  revenue  to $100 million.  Orbotech specializes in equipment such as printed-circuit
boards and flat panel displays, which test for physical and
visual defects in smartphones, televisions and tablets.  Sales of flat panel displays were $11.8 million in the
first quarter, compared with $43.2 million in the year-earlier
period, Doron Abramovitch, chief financial officer of Orbotech,
said in a May 7 earnings call. Printed-circuit boards generated
$48.5 million in sales in the first three months of the year,
compared with $57.1 million in the first quarter of last year,
he said.  Samsung Forecast  Samsung Electronics and LG Display Co., the world’s second-
largest flat-panel maker, are among Orbotech’s biggest
 customers , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Taurus Investment cut its operating profit estimate for
Samsung Electronics to 6.9 trillion won ($6 billion) from 7.2
trillion won, citing weaker-than-expected demand, after JPMorgan
Chase & Co. said June 22 that earnings may fall short of
estimates.  Goldman Sachs cut the 2012 growth forecast for smartphone
units to 38 percent from 42 percent in a June 24 report. The
biggest drivers of the downward revision were western  Europe ,
 North America , China and  Latin America , the report showed.  Perrigo Premium  Perrigo Co. (PRGO) , the largest U.S. over-the-counter maker of
drugs, added 0.2 percent to $115.40 in New York yesterday,
swelling the premium versus the Tel Aviv shares to $1.20, the
most of dually-traded Israeli companies.  The drugmaker’s stock gained 1.6 percent to 455 shekels in
Israel today, the equivalent of $115.43. Perrigo expects a
faltering economy to support the company’s double-digit growth
as consumers buy cheaper store-brand products, John Hendrickson,
the head of global operations, said in an interview yesterday.  Israel, whose population of 7.8 million is similar in size
to  Switzerland ’s, has about 60 companies traded on the Nasdaq
Stock Market, the most of any country outside the U.S. after
 China . The nation is also home to more startup companies per
capita than the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harvey in New York at 
 charvey32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  