-- Morgan Stanley Downgrades RIM on ‘Deteriorating’ Outlook
-- B y   J a m e s   C a l l a n   a n d   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-06-25T20:07:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/morgan-stanley-downgrades-rim-on-deteriorating-outlook.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) , the
struggling maker of the BlackBerry smartphone, fell the most
since May after  Morgan Stanley (MS)  downgraded the stock, citing
“rapidly deteriorating fundamentals.”  “The only way RIM remains a viable entity is at a fraction
of its current size, a transformation that erases much of its
earnings power,”  Ehud Gelblum , an analyst at Morgan Stanley in
 New York , wrote in a note to investors today. He cut RIM’s
recommendation to underweight, a negative  rating , from
equalweight, the equivalent of a hold.  RIM’s stock fell 7.6 percent to $9.11 at the close in New
York, the worst decline since May 30. The shares are trading at
their lowest level since December 2003.  The company plans to release a new lineup of phones based
on the BlackBerry 10 operating system, an attempt to reverse a
sales slide and regain market share from  Apple Inc.’s (AAPL)  iPhone and
devices running  Google Inc.’s (GOOG)  Android. RIM, which has hired
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  RBC Capital Markets  to help evaluate
options, has lost two-thirds of its value in the past 12 months.  The introduction of BlackBerry 10 is “likely too late and
fraught with risks,” Gelblum said. A shortage of chips may
hamper the release, and the lack of a physical keyboard on new
phones may alienate customers, he said.  RIM unveiled a BlackBerry 10 prototype phone without the
company’s hallmark keyboard last month. Still, RIM has said it
will continue to produce some phones with keyboards.  Profit Projection  Gelblum lowered his projection for fiscal 2014 earnings per
share to a loss of $1.39 from a loss of 85 cents, and cut his
revenue forecast for the same period to $7 billion from $9.7
billion. The average of analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg was profit of 52 cents on revenue of $12.2 billion.  To reach the break-even point again, without boosting
revenue, RIM would have to eliminate 90 percent of its
employees, Gelblum said.  Results in the quarter ending in August may
“significantly” trail analysts’  estimates  because of RIM’s
aging portfolio of devices and a pause of shipments ahead of the
introduction of the BlackBerry 10 operating system this year,
Gelblum said.  Other analysts are similarly pessimistic about RIM’s
fortunes. RIM’s new phones will struggle to compete with the
latest models from Apple and Samsung Electronics Co., Alkesh Shah, an analyst at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR)  in New York, wrote in
a note today. Shah rates RIM the equivalent of a hold.  “We expect fundamentals to worsen at RIM for at least the
next two to three years before reaching bottom.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Callan in New York at 
 jcallan2@bloomberg.net ;
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  