-- Morrison’s Mowat, Strain Said to Be Candidates for Finance Role
-- B y   S a r a h   S h a n n o n
-- 2012-06-25T11:19:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/morrison-s-mowat-strain-said-to-be-candidates-for-finance-role.html
William Morrison Supermarkets Plc (MRW) 
Strategy Director Gordon Mowat and Trevor Strain, a senior
director, are internal candidates to replace Richard Pennycook
as finance director, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  The nomination committee of the Bradford, England-based
company, led by Chairman Ian Gibson, is expected to also look
externally for a replacement, according to the person, who
declined to be identified because the matter is private.  Morrison, the smallest of the U.K.’s four main grocery
chains, said today that Pennycook will leave in June 2013 after
almost eight years. The shares fell to a two-year low. The
departure deals a further blow to Chief Executive Officer Dalton Philips as Morrison’s share of U.K. grocery spending slides.  “Mr. Pennycook’s announcement comes at a time when the
company is not trading particularly well in relative or absolute
terms,” Darren Shirley, an analyst at Shore Capital, said in a
note. “His departure is an unwelcome loss and distraction for
the board.” Shirley has a sell rating on the stock.  Mowat joined Morrison last year from management consultant
McKinsey & Co., where he helped lead its European consumer-goods
and retail practice. He has been overseeing the grocer’s
strategy including a push into  convenience stores  and online.  Strain is director of finance, trading and operations.  ‘Portfolio Career’  Morrison spokesman Simon Rigby declined to comment on
possible candidates to succeed Pennycook.  Group Commercial Director Richard Hodgson and Mark Harrison, the retail director, are unlikely to seek the finance
position because of their respective backgrounds in marketing
and retailing, the person familiar with the matter said.  Pennycook, 48, said in a statement today that his decision
to step down was a difficult one, adding that “I feel that it’s
the right time to seek new challenges.”  Morrison fell 1.8 percent to 263.5 pence at 12:17 p.m. in
 London  trading, the  fourth-steepest drop  in the U.K. benchmark
 FTSE 100 Index. (UKX)  The stock has declined 19 percent this year.  Morrison’s share of the U.K. grocery market slumped to 11.8
percent in the 12 weeks ended June 12 from 12.2 percent in the
same period a year earlier, according to Kantar Worldpanel.  The retailer said in May that its sales declined for the
first time in almost seven years in the first quarter as
competitors offered more coupons.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Shannon in London at 
 sshannon4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at  