-- Hot Werewolf Sequel Pours on Gore, Sex
-- B y   J e f f r e y   B u r k e
-- 2012-06-25T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/hot-werewolf-sequel-pours-on-gore-sex-in-war-against-vampires.html
Last year Glen Duncan brought fresh
blood to the monster market with the moonstruck hero and
toothsome prose of his novel “ The Last Werewolf .”  Bookish and a bit older than 200, Jake Marlowe enjoyed good
scotch and sex and a monthly helping of human sushi. Two
centuries of relative solitude were wearing on him, though,
while humans and vampires were hunting him as the sole survivor
of his kind.  Then he met Talulla Demetriou, an attractive executive who
gave off a clear vibe that she too could morph into a hairy 9-
foot carnivore. She had been eating people for only a few months
when she got into tandem mayhem with Jake. Among other things,
she opened the door, seemingly closed by the novel’s title, to a
sequel.  In “ Talulla Rising ,” Duncan again creates an oddly
engaging world defined almost exclusively by the abnormal. There
are organized vampires and renegade vampires, as well as the
crackpot human members of the World Organization for the Control
of Occult Phenomena and its breakaway elements.  Where the first novel had much to do with solitude, the
sequel is quite sociable. A pack of real wolves lopes in --
lupus ex machina -- to help Talulla when vampires grab her
firstborn. Elsewhere, an incautious nibble leads to a sudden
bloom of werewolves, who, along with two WOCOP rebels, help
Talulla go after the cubnappers.  Ur Vampire  The ultimate baddies this time are the Disciples of Remshi,
the Ur vampire, whose return from a real long nap requires
lycanthropic sacrifice. They are led by “Jacqueline Delon, the
gamine billionaire occultist femme fatale who’d stopped at
nothing to get what she wanted. What she wanted was
immortality.”  That’s Duncan’s idea of how Talulla’s thoughts should
sound, an unusual slide into potboiler guff that mars the
opening pages then largely, happily, stops. This after all is a
man who can thus render his heroine’s ruminations as she
contemplates freeing her impaled hand:  “It made me think how time must have crawled for Christ on
the cross, a horse’s tail swishing, a centurion easing his
leather cap, a boy drawing with a stick in the dust. That was
the world: innocent vivid continuity, regardless.”  Romantic Monsters  Duncan plays on a long, relatively thoughtful tradition of
the romantic monster, admirable, even heroic, in some ways, at
least deserving of sympathy for behavior beyond his control, yet
loathsome for committing horrors beyond our ken. It’s far from
the camp and cute-gothic varieties that have featured George
Hamilton, Michael J. Fox and lately, alas, Abe Lincoln -- closer
to  Jack Nicholson ’s “Wolf.”  A British writer with eight previous novels, Duncan also
has fun with his strange material, for instance describing why
vampires are depressive: “Centuries of no sunlight. Seasonal
Affective Disorder on a massive scale.” Talulla, while mulling
the “necessary lies” she tells her father, shifts into Joan
Rivers shtick when considering the alternative: “Your
daughter’s a werewolf. Hair, claws, fangs, the whole B-movie
deal. Twelve victims. You don’t want to know.”  The story moves from  Alaska  to  London  to  Italy  to Crete,
makes good use of the monsters’ special powers, offers cliff-
hanging moments and has a fine prison sequence with elements
that should delight fans of the “ Hostel ” movies.  Ah yes, the gore: Duncan spares few details when his
monsters are on a tear. As Talulla dispatches one nasty fellow,
she “made a slippery fistful of his trachea, esophagus, larynx,
pharynx and thyroid veins, squeezed -- and ripped them out” A
one-handed castration without the use of anesthesia is almost
matched by the stabbing or dislodging of eyeballs here and
there.  It’s physically repellent and at times psychologically
worse. Duncan can be awfully entertaining while presenting
ghastly visions that might force a reader to wonder if turning a
page will turn his stomach.  “Talulla Rising” is published by Knopf in the U.S. and
Canongate in the U.K. (352 pages, $25.95, 16.99 pounds). To
order this book in  North America , click  here .  (Jeffrey Burke is an editor with Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on dining and  James
Pressley  on business books.  To contact the writer on the story:
Jeffrey Burke in  New York  at 
 jburke21@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for the story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 