-- Paschi Said to Get Approval Today for Bond Sale to Treasury
-- B y   S o n i a   S i r l e t t i
-- 2012-06-25T12:36:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/paschi-said-to-get-approval-today-for-bond-sale-to-government.html
Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena SpA ,
 Italy ’s third-biggest bank, may get approval today from the
country’s central bank to sell at least 1 billion euros ($1.3
billion) of bonds to the government as part of its plan to boost
capital, a person with knowledge of the matter said.  Monte Paschi’s board meets tomorrow to approve a plan that
includes capital measures to comply with European Banking
Authority targets. The exact amount of the bond sale hasn’t been
determined, said the person, who asked not be identified because
the business plan isn’t public yet.  Monte Paschi, which is among Italian lenders that must
raise capital as part of  Europe ’s plan to end the sovereign debt
crisis, has a capital shortfall of 3.3 billion euros, according
to the EBA. The bank must also repay 1.9 billion euros of state
aid provided in 2009.  The lender has already covered more than 2 billion euros of
the shortfall through the conversion of hybrid bonds and the
implementation of new internal risk models, Chief Executive
Officer Fabrizio Viola said last month. The bank was considering
several alternatives to fill the remaining shortage of capital,
including the sale of contingent convertible bonds, he said.  Il Sole 24 Ore newspaper reported June 19 that the bank was
considering a request for new state aid, so-called Tremonti
bonds, through the sale of debt to the Italian Treasury.  Greater Dependency  “The decision to issue Tremonti bonds instead of CoCo
bonds would give more flexibility to the bank in the
reimbursement of the bond,” Manuela Meroni, a Milan-based
analyst at Banca IMI SpA, wrote in a note today. Still, “it
would increase the bank’s dependency on the support of the
state,” she said.  Monte Paschi last month reported that  first-quarter profit 
dropped 61 percent to 54.5 million euros after setting aside
more money for bad loans. Loan-loss provisions in the quarter
rose 58 percent to 434 million euros.  The bank’s shares fell 2.9 percent to 21.03 cents as of
2:12 p.m. in Milan trading, cutting Monte Paschi’s market value
to 2.6 billion euros. The stock has dropped 17 percent this
year, compared with a 2 percent decline in the 43-company
 Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services Index .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sonia Sirletti in Milan at 
 ssirletti@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  