-- Pentagon to Withhold 5% From Lockheed Aircraft Contracts
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-06-26T15:43:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/pentagon-to-withhold-5-from-certain-lockheed-contracts.html
The Pentagon’s contracts management
agency has increased to 5 percent from 2 percent the funding it
is temporarily withholding from  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s aircraft
unit, according to a Defense Department document.  The money is being held back because of flaws in internal
systems, the  Defense Contract Management Agency  said in a letter
dated June 22 and obtained yesterday. Lockheed will seek
approval for its systems as soon as possible, company spokesman
Joe Stout said in an e-mailed statement.  A Pentagon rule that took effect Aug. 16 requires all new
contracts to include language spelling out the potential for
withholding payments due to deficiencies, such as those
involving the “Earned Value Management” system used to
determine whether companies are meeting cost and schedule goals.
Five percent is the maximum the Pentagon can withhold from the
billings under the regulation.  The requirement, intended to protect taxpayers from over-
billing, focuses on systems that companies use to estimate costs
for bids; purchase goods from subcontractors; manage government
property and materials; and track costs and schedule progress.  Lockheed Martin fell 1 percent to $83.27 at 11:25 a.m. in
 New York  trading after gaining 4.1 percent this year.  The Pentagon agency first raised concerns in 2007 about the
internal company data generated for Lockheed Martin’s top
fighter programs -- the F-35, F-22 and F-16 jets.  The agency uncovered deficiencies in 19 of 32 areas, the
U.S. Government Accountability Office said in a June 14  report 
on the F-35, the Pentagon’s costliest program.  $395 Billion  The deficiencies called into question Lockheed Martin’s
“ability to manage the escalating costs and complex
scheduling” of what’s now a $395 billion program, the GAO
found.  The contract management agency decertified the Earned Value
Management system for Lockheed Martin’s aircraft operations in
October 2010. The agency began a review in March after the unit
of the Bethesda, Maryland-based company submitted a plan to
correct deficiencies.  That review is suspended until “Lockheed Aeronautics has
successfully completed all corrective actions and verified
through internal testing that it has achieved its objectives to
bring” its system into compliance, the agency wrote Thomas
Bradley, vice president for finance and program management.  “While progress had been made on correcting
deficiencies,” the agency told Bradley “significant issues
remain with compliance on numerous guidelines.”  Data Reliability  The review that began in March had been delayed by a year
“to allow sufficient time for Lockheed to fully execute” the
plan, the agency said. Lockheed, the world’s largest defense
contractor, said it was 99 percent finished implementing
improvements before the review began, according to the contract
agency.  Even so, the agency said in its letter that it found
recurring concerns about “data reliability” in the office
overseeing the F-35, documented in 107 individual
“discrepancies.”  Among the deficiencies were “poor quality,” unreliable
estimates about how much contracts will cost on completion,
“inadequate recording” of direct costs and “data
inconsistencies,” according to the letter. Pentagon spokesman
 George Little  declined to discuss specifics of the funds
withheld from Lockheed.  “We have been working closely with our industry partners
to try and drive down costs and to share risk,” Little told
reporters today. “Anything we can do to work with industry to
shave pennies, dimes, nickels, quarters, higher levels of
currency, is something we need to take a look at.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  