-- Permira Said to Mull Halting Iglo Sale for Dividend Loan
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y ,   J a c k i e   S i m m o n s   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-06-25T16:45:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/permira-said-to-eye-iglo-dividend-payout-after-low-bid.html
Permira Advisers LLP may call off
the sale of Iglo Foods Group Ltd. and is exploring ways to pay
itself a dividend from its stake in the fish-finger maker after
the final bid fell short of the buyout firm’s target, people
with knowledge of the talks said.  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  and  BC Partners  Ltd. submitted an offer
last week that values Iglo at about 2.5 billion euros ($3.1
billion), while Permira expected at least 2.8 billion euros,
said the people, who asked not to be identified because the
process is private.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , which is advising
Permira on Iglo, is working on debt financing that would be used
to pay Permira a dividend, allowing it to get some cash from the
investment, they said.  Permira, seeking to return cash to investors as it tries to
raise 6.5 billion euros for a new buyout fund, received a  final
offer for the frozen food company after Blackstone and BC agreed
to submit a joint bid, according to the people. The London-based
firm bought Iglo from  Unilever NV (UNA)  for 1.73 billion euros in
2006, and expanded it after purchasing the Dutch consumer goods
maker’s Findus operations in  Italy  for 805 million euros in
October 2010. A 2.8 billion-euro valuation for Iglo would result
in Permira obtaining about double its investment, two of the
people said.  Officials at Blackstone, BC, Permira and Iglo declined to
comment.  Bid Funding  Blackstone owns U.S. frozen food maker Pinnacle Foods
Finance LLC, which in turn owns the U.S. rights to Birds Eye,
and London-based BC Partners once owned the French frozen food
maker Picard Groupe SA. No final decision on Iglo has been made
and the buyout firms may consider coming back with a revised
offer, said two of the people.  A group of banks including Credit Suisse, Nomura Holdings
Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and UBS AG
have agreed to lend about 2.1 billion euros to fund the two
firms’ joint Iglo bid, the people said. This is equivalent to
about 6.25 times Iglo’s earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization, they said.  Blackstone may have lost interest in Iglo because it is
looking at bidding for  Bolthouse Farms , which makes juices and
salad dressing, according to one person with knowledge of the
matter. Bolthouse, which is closely held, is getting final bids
and may sell for $1.5 billion to $2 billion, a person said.  Typically, private equity firms get money from investors
such as pension plans and endowments, with a mandate to spend it
within five to six years and return it with a profit after about
10 years. Investors tend to wait for distributions from earlier
funds before committing again to new pools.  Permira sold part of its stake in Galaxy Entertainment
Group Ltd. last year, and agreed to sell the animal-feed
additives company Provimi SA to Cargill Inc. In March, it agreed
to sell its 51 percent stake in NDS Group Ltd. to Cisco Systems
Inc., the largest maker of equipment for  computer networks , in a
sale that valued the maker of software for pay-TV channels at
about $5 billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Paris at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  