-- Peru, Turkey to Spur U.S. Export Growth by 2016, HSBC Predicts
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/peru-turkey-to-spur-u-s-export-growth-by-2016-hsbc-predicts.html
Peru, Turkey and Brazil will be the
fastest-growing markets for U.S. exports in the next five years,
as emerging-market nations consume more goods, according to an
 HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  report on international trade.  U.S. exports to Peru, estimated at $8.3 billion in 2011,
are predicted to expand 8.7 percent a year, according to a
forecast released today by the commercial banking unit of
London-based HSBC. Exports will increase 8.3 percent to Turkey
and 8.3 percent to Brazil.  “Traditional export-driven economies in ‘emerging’ markets
are becoming more consumer-driven and importing more from high-
end developed-nation producers, like the United States, to
fulfill demand,” Steve Bottomley, head of commercial banking
for HSBC  North America , said in a statement.  President  Barack Obama  wants to double U.S. exports from
2009 through the end of 2014, and the administration has focused
on improving trade with Latin America, Turkey and the Pacific
region. U.S. Trade Representative  Ron Kirk  and Acting Commerce
Secretary  Rebecca Blank  are in Turkey this week to discuss
economic issues with local business leaders.  “We should now be looking at ways to strengthen our
partnership beyond just trade,” Blank said in prepared  remarks 
during a lunch in Istanbul yesterday. “We should foster
stronger and more balanced bilateral investment.”  Compound Growth  U.S. companies can expect trade to increase 4.7 percent
annually over the next 10 years, according to the forecast
produced for HSBC by  Delta Economics , a London-based research
company. The forecast shows compound annual growth rate for U.S.
exports from this year through 2016.  Biopharmaceuticals will lead U.S. growth in non-commodity
exports, increasing 8.6 percent each year, it said. Latin
American imports of the products will increase by more than 11
percent annually.  Peru and the U.S. are in discussions with seven other
nations to create the Trans-Pacific Partnership, a regional
group working on issues including agriculture, investment and
intellectual-property protections. Other nations are Australia,
Brunei, Chile, Malaysia,  New Zealand , Singapore and Vietnam.  The group last week invited Canada and Mexico to join,
which would create the largest U.S. export market, according to
the U.S. Trade Representative’s office.  The U.S. Export-Import Bank lists Turkey and Brazil as two
of 10 “key markets” where U.S. exporters have significant
opportunity for growth. The bank since November has supported
about $279.5 million in financing to help Turkish buyers of
aircraft and components from  Boeing Co. (BA)  and  General Electric
Co. (GE) , according to the lender’s website.  U.S. exporters sent about $42.9 billion in goods to Brazil
last year, a 21 percent increase from 2010, according to the
Census Bureau. The country was the eighth-largest U.S. trading
partner in 2011, behind South Korea and ahead of France.  Brazil  will have the fastest global growth for imports, 7.7
percent annually in the five years, the HSBC forecast said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  