-- Petrobras Slumps as Fuel Price Increase Disappoints: Rio Mover
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-06-25T23:54:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/petrobras-fuel-price-increase-fails-to-erase-losses-itau-says.html
Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) ,  Brazil ’s
state-controlled oil company, fell the most in more than four
months after securing a fuel price increase that was below some
analysts’ estimates.  Preferred shares in the Rio de Janeiro-based producer known
as Petrobras slumped 9 percent to 17.80 reais, the steepest
decline since November 2008. Brazil’s main stock index declined
3 percent.  Petrobras will increase prices of gasoline by 7.8 percent
and diesel by 3.9 percent starting today, the company said June
22. Petrobras jumped 5.4 percent last week on expectations of a
15 percent increase in gasoline and diesel prices.  “The price increase is disappointing,” Luiz Roberto
Marinho, a broker at Sao Paulo-based Renascenca DTVM, said in a
telephone interview today. “It suggests that Petrobras will
have to rely on more debt to execute its investment plan.” He
doesn’t own shares or have a recommendation for the stock.  Petrobras boosted spending 5.3 percent to $236.5 billion in
a revised five-year plan released on June 15.  Petrobras needs to increase gasoline and diesel 11 percent
and 17 percent, respectively, to bring them in line with
international prices on a spot basis, Banco Itau BBA SA analysts
Paula Kovarsky and Diego Mendes said in a June 22 report.  “We therefore expect the lower increase, particularly on
diesel, to frustrate market expectations,” Kovarsky said. “We
expect a negative market reaction to the announcement.”  Rising Imports  Fuel imports climbed 46 percent in the first quarter to
406,000 barrels a day from the year earlier, according to
information on Petrobras’s website.  Petrobras announced the price increase after markets closed
June 22. The company didn’t answer phone calls or reply to an e-
mail sent over the weekend.  Fuel sales have grown faster than the average for the
economy this year because of an increase in  car ownership , Jose Lima de Andrade Neto, the head of the company’s distribution
unit, told reporters in Rio de Janeiro on June 11.  Brazil is eliminating the so-called Cide tax on gasoline
and diesel to “neutralize” the impact of price increases at
Petrobras refineries, the  Finance Ministry  said in a June 22
statement. The increase in prices failed to eliminate the gap of
about 15 percent with international fuel prices, Auro Rozenbaum,
an analyst at  Bradesco SA (BBD) , said in an e-mailed response to
questions yesterday.  Government Policies  “The effort has been so focused on keeping inflation in
check that Brazilian government policies prevent Petrobras from
operating on a level playing field with other integrated
majors,”  Gianna Bern , president of Chicago-based risk-
management adviser Brookshire Advisory, said in a June 23 phone
interview. “Petrobras is in effect forced to subsidize.”  Petrobras is investing $65.5 billion in the five years
through 2016 to expand its domestic refining network in an
effort to phase out fuel imports, the company said June 14.
Refining and transportation accounts for 28 percent of
Petrobras’s $235.5 billion investment plan, the largest in the
industry.  “The combination of a prolonged  bear market  in crude  oil
prices  and unsupportive governmental policies could potentially
put a major capital plan at risk for Petrobras, at least in the
near term,” Bern said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  