-- Pfizer, Bristol-Myers’s Eliquis Fails to Win FDA Approval
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-06-25T20:09:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/pfizer-bristol-myers-eliquis-drug-fails-to-win-fda-approval.html
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb
Co. (BMY)  failed to gain approval of their top experimental drug, the
blood thinner Eliquis, from U.S. regulators who said they needed
more data on the treatment.  The  Food and Drug Administration  wants clarification of
information from already completed trials, and isn’t seeking new
studies, the companies said in a statement. The drug, aimed at
patients with heart arrhythmia, would have $2.5 billion a year
in sales by 2015 if approved, according to  Tim Anderson , a
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. analyst in New York.  Eliquis is among experimental products the two New York-
based companies were depending on to replace sales from best-
selling drugs that have lost patent protection in the last year.
An FDA response could take six months after the requested data
is supplied, said Laura Hortas, a Bristol-Myers spokeswoman.  “We are already working with the agency, and we are
hopeful that the review of our submission can be completed
within a shorter time frame,” Hortas said in an e-mailed
response to questions. The FDA’s response “does not alter our
confidence in the therapeutic profile of Eliquis.”  Pfizer  shares  fell 1.1 percent to $22.47 at 4 p.m.  New York 
time. Bristol-Myers  shares  dropped 3.5 percent to $34.13.  Competing Products  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) , of  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , and
Leverkusen, Germany-based Bayer AG have a competing pill,
Xarelto, as does Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, of Ingelheim,
 Germany . Bayer rose less than 1 percent to 52.97 euros in
Frankfurt.  Both Pfizer’s cholesterol pill Lipitor, with $12.9 billion
in peak yearly sales, and Bristol’s blood-thinner Plavix, with
$7.09 billion in revenue, lost patent protection.  “It’s a delay but it shouldn’t impact the longer term
profile of the product,” said Marshall Gordon, an investor with
Clearbridge Advisors in New York, in a telephone interview.
“It’ll still have a best-in class profile.” His fund owns
shares of both companies.  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group, said the FDA
was likely looking to make sure data in one of the clinical
trials was accurate about how many strokes and bleeding episodes
patients on the drugs had.  “Although this is a material time delay, we don’t see an
impact to our conclusion that Eliquis will eventually dominate
the blood thinner space,” he said in a note to clients.  The companies had been planning to launch promotion of the
pill after what had been an expected approval this month, Hortas
said. A six month delay would push that launch into 2013.  Eliquis is one of three drugs Pfizer had been expecting to
help replace revenue lost from Lipitor.  The company is awaiting
FDA approval of its arthritis pill tofacitinib, which won the
backing of U.S. regulatory advisers last month. Pfizer plans to
release data on its experimental Alzheimer’s treatment
bapineuzumab at a medical meeting in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in New York at   darmstrong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at    rgale5@bloomberg.net  