-- Porsche Plaintiffs Seek $5 Billion With Limited Tools
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k
-- 2012-06-26T14:18:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/porsche-plaintiffs-seek-5-billion-with-limited-tools.html
Plaintiffs seeking more than 4
billion euros ($5 billion) in damages from Porsche SE may find
it difficult to make their case in a German court system that
offers them only a limited view of the company’s inner workings.  Five cases claiming the 911 sports-car maker manipulated
stock prices in its failed bid to take over  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  are
pending at a Braunschweig court, with the first hearings to be
held tomorrow. While the plaintiffs have the full burden of
proving wrongdoing, they have few tools, according to  Thomas
Moellers , civil law professor at Augsburg University.  “Different from the U.S., plaintiffs here have no pre-
trial discovery, so they practically have no access to Porsche’s
files,” Moellers said. “Only prosecutors have the weapons to
seize papers, question witnesses and find out what actually
happened.”  While Stuttgart prosecutors said last year their probe
“solidified” suspicions Porsche didn’t properly inform the
market between 2007 and 2009 about its plan to take control of
VW, the investigation isn’t finished so the plaintiffs haven’t
yet been granted access to the evidence collected.  The  Braunschweig  suits are part of a series of litigation
Porsche has faced since it  disclosed in October 2008  it
controlled 74.1 percent of VW, partly through options, and was
seeking to acquire 75 percent and eventually a takeover. It was
a plan the company had previously denied. The announcement
caused VW’s stock to surge as short sellers raced to buy shares
borrowed in a bet that VW would fall.  Enormous Risks  “Porsche strongly rejects the claim it misled the
markets,” the Stuttgart, Germany-based company said in a
statement. “The plaintiffs are professional investors who
knowingly took enormous risks. The suits are an attempt to make
up for their own misjudgment.”  The investors claim Porsche lied in a  March 2008 statement 
denying it planned to take over VW, because at that time it had
already begun buying options to secure control.  Seven months later, the option plan risked backfiring when
VW shares fell. Porsche then issued an October 2008 press
release in an effort to push VW’s share price up, the plaintiffs
claim. That was also false, according to the lawsuits, because
the company then was no longer able to finance a takeover as a
result of the credit crunch.  A series of lawsuits in the U.S. and  Germany  resulted when
the options strategy, the brainchild of then-Chief Executive
Officer Wendelin Wiedeking and Holger Haerter, chief financial
officer at the time, faltered in 2009 and nearly bankrupted the
car maker. Stuttgart prosecutors have been investigating the
executives since.  March Charge  As part of the probe, Haerter was charged in March with
loan fraud over statements made to a bank when refinancing a 10
billion-euro loan in 2009. A Stuttgart court today ruled the
case can go to trial. Haerter and Wiedeking, who both continue
to be investigated over the market-manipulation allegations,
have denied wrongdoing.  For tactical reasons, the Braunschweig plaintiffs should
have waited for the criminal probe’s results, which may help
their case, Moellers said. While a statute of limitation forced
them to sue by the end of last year, they can still seek access
to the investigators’ findings when the probe ends.  “We are very optimistic we will succeed even without
access to the prosecutor’s files,” said Franz Braun, who
represents plaintiffs in three of the five suits. “More and
more details have by now come to light backing our case.”  Lower Saxony  Braun said files of the Lower Saxony state government,
which holds 20 percent of VW voting rights, back the argument
that Porsche sought a takeover in early March 2008. There is
also evidence that, at that time, Porsche had instructed a bank
to gradually build up options to get 75 percent control of VW,
he said.  The judges will only be looking into the merits of the two
smallest cases -- seeking 3.1 million euros and 1.6 million
euros respectively -- at tomorrow’s hearing, though their
comments may indicate the outlook for all five.  A third hearing tomorrow, concerning two suits seeking 1.8
billion euros and 351 million euros, respectively, will only
cover whether a company that bought claims of U.S. and German
investors must post collateral covering legal fees. The fifth
case, seeking 1.96 billion euros, will be heard later.  Prosecutors are investigating under market-manipulation
rules, which aren’t available to individuals pursuing civil
claims in German courts, according to  Gregor Bachmann , a capital
markets law professor at Berlin’s Free University. Instead, they
must rely on general tort law that grants damages if someone
viciously harms another person.  Any Means  “The basic rule is you’re liable if you use any means to
reach your goal, regardless of the consequences for others,”
said Bachmann. “If you lie in a press release just because you
want to boost a stock price, that’s certainly covered.”  In cases from the dot-com bubble era, courts have awarded
damages when “pretty blatant lies” were used, Bachmann said.
Porsche may try to argue the decision to seek a takeover was
only made when it was actually disclosed, he said, and that
everything before was the company mulling its options.  Porsche has argued it that its press releases were in line
with the decisions of the company’s leadership at the time, the
court said in a June 11 statement.  The plaintiffs’ biggest challenge is to prove that defense
wrong, according to Moellers. They have asked the court to call
Wiedeking, Haerter and  Ferdinand Piech , VW’s chairman and a
Porsche supervisory board member, as witnesses in their case.  Key Witnesses  “It’s always a bit unfavorable if your key witnesses are
mostly people from the other side,” said Moellers. “It seems
unlikely that they will back the plaintiff’s reading of the
events.”  Insider-trading rules, also invoked by the plaintiffs,
generally only apply to the stock issuer -- that’s VW, not
Porsche, both Bachmann and Moellers said.  One of the lawsuits also targets VW, arguing the Wolfsburg-
based company should have disclosed Porsche’s intentions. VW
knew about it because Wiedeking and Haerter were serving on its
supervisory board, the plaintiffs claim.  Michael Brendel, a VW spokesman, said in an e-mail the
claim is unfounded.  “At first glance, that argument seems a bit wild, but the
law accepts some sort of ‘knowledge attribution,’” Bachmann
said. “A company knows what its executives know. How much this
applies to supervisory board members, who aren’t managers, is an
open issue.”  Porsche’s adversaries may also bet on their “nuisance
power,” as the suits, counting in potential appeals, could drag
on for five to seven years, Moellers said.  “We know from other cases that some plaintiffs are well
aware that a complicated and time-consuming suit is something
most companies try to get rid of,” Moellers said. “In many
cases that means paying a nice amount of money to settle.”  The cases are LG Braunschweig, 5 O 1110/11, 5 O 2894/11, 5
O3086/11, 5 O 2077/11 and 5 O 552/12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  