-- Princeton’s Blinder Says Fed Has Weak Weapons for Growth
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n   a n d   K a t h l e e n   H a y s
-- 2012-06-25T19:17:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/princeton-s-blinder-says-fed-has-weak-weapons-for-growth.html
Princeton University economist  Alan Blinder  said remaining options for Federal Reserve policy
probably won’t provide a powerful boost to the  U.S. economy .  “The basic problem for the Fed is it’s used all the heavy
artillery a long time ago and it’s down to relatively weak
weapons,” Blinder, a former Fed vice chairman, said in an
interview today on Bloomberg Radio’s “The Hays Advantage” with
Kathleen Hays.  “Even a full-scale QE3 in mortgage-backed securities is
not that powerful a weapon these days with mortgage rates as low
as they are” and impediments to the market, including borrowers
who can’t refinance because their mortgage is larger than their
home’s value, he said. The Fed, seeking to cut borrowing costs,
has bought $2.3 trillion of securities in two rounds of
quantitative easing, or QE.  Central bank officials on June 20 downgraded their
forecasts for growth and employment while noting “significant
downside risks” to the economy. At that meeting they announced
they would swap $267 billion in short-term  Treasury securities 
with longer-term debt in an extension of their so-called
Operation Twist program.  “Compared to doing nothing it’s a little, little, little
bit of help,” Blinder said.  Richmond Fed President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented from the
decision to extend Operation Twist, first announced in September
and scheduled to end this month. Lengthening the program was
unlikely to boost growth, he said.  Blinder said he agreed with Lacker’s assessment that the
program will provide little boost to growth yet said the central
bank should still do what it can to help.  A more effective program, he said, would be to provide $400
billion to $500 billion of fiscal stimulus including
infrastructure and jobs programs. Republicans are unlikely to
report such programs, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net ;
 Kathleen Hays  in  New York  at 
 khays4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  