-- Private Wealth Fuels Record Singapore-Dollar Bond Sales
-- B y   T a n y a   A n g e r e r
-- 2012-06-26T08:20:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/private-wealth-fuels-record-singapore-dollar-bond-sales.html
Singapore-dollar  bond sales rose to
a half-year record as private-wealth clients in the city-state,
which has the world’s highest density of millionaires, sought
refuge in the local currency.  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS) ,  Asia ’s second-biggest casino
operator by market value, and Keppel Corp. lead a 44 percent
increase in issuance this year to S$15.7 billion ($12.3
billion), compared with the second half of 2011, data compiled
by Bloomberg show. Private-banking investors bought as much as
35 percent of Singapore-dollar notes this year, about twice as
much as two years ago, according to  Deutsche Bank AG. (DBK)   Top-rated  Singapore ’s appeal among private-banking clients
has risen as the local currency gained 12 percent since 2009 and
Europe’s financial turmoil deepened with Greece’s new government
struggling to meet targets for cutting its deficit. Singapore-
dollar bond sales will at least match last year’s issuance,
barring any major market disruptions, according to  DBS Group
Holdings Ltd. (DBS) , the biggest underwriter since 2009.  “Private banks have been the primary driver of Singapore
dollar bond issuance,” Debashish Duttagupta, Asia-Pacific head
of investments at  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s wealth management business,
said in an interview from Singapore yesterday. “The Singapore
dollar looks like a safe harbor in these stormy conditions.”  Citigroup ranked second among wealth managers for high net
worth individuals in the Asia-Pacific region, according to a
Private Bank International survey in 2011.  2010 Record  Singapore-dollar bond sales peaked at S$24.7 billion in
2010, the most since at least 1999, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In 2011, companies issued S$21.3 billion of
securities, the data show.  The country is one of about a dozen globally that still
have top rankings from the three credit-rating companies.
Denmark increased its bond sales target last week to take
advantage of its AAA rated debt as investors flee the euro area.  Singapore’s private wealth grew 8.2 percent in 2011,
according to research by  Boston Consulting Group , outpacing the
1.9 percent global pace. Total household wealth in Singapore is
estimated to grow to $1.4 trillion in 2016 from $1 trillion in
2011, the study shows.  “Noticeable growth of private-bank interest in Singapore-
dollar bonds has just started a few years ago,” Clifford Lee,
head of fixed income at DBS in Singapore, said in an phone
interview on June 22. “With  interest rates  expected to stay low
and market volatility persisting, this interest can be expected
keep growing.” DBS arranged S$6.38 billion of sales this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Equity Slump  More than $4 trillion has been erased from global equities
since March amid concern that worldwide economic growth is
threatened by Europe’s debt crisis.  This has spurred the three biggest declines in global
stocks since March 2009. The  MSCI All-Country World Index (MXWD)  fell
24 percent from May through October 2011 as Greece struggled to
agree with creditors on debt writedowns. The gauge fell 10
percent from the 2012 peak amid concern Greece would exit the
euro and the crisis spread to  Spain .  The Singapore dollar’s gain compares with a 0.11 percent
depreciation in the  Hong Kong dollar  since the start of 2009.
Singapore corporate bonds returned 4.69 percent in that period,
compared with 3.86 percent for Hong Kong corporate debt,
according to data compiled by HSBC Holdings Plc.  “Investors with Singapore dollar liquidity in search of
yield and security are buying domestic bonds,” said Emmanuel Bucaille, head of products Singapore at UBS Wealth Management.  Managed Currency  The Monetary Authority, which uses the  exchange rate  to
manage inflation, said in April it would allow faster gains to
damp price pressures. The central bank guides the local dollar
against a basket of currencies within an undisclosed range, and
adjusts the pace of change by altering the band. Singapore’s
consumer price index rose 5 percent in May from a year earlier.  “The strength of the Singapore dollar encourages
individuals to switch out of other” currencies, said Sim Buck
Khim, co-head of  capital markets  at Oversea-Chinese Banking
Corp. “Participation by private bank investors enlarges the
 bond market , leading to more deals, bigger deals and higher
issuance volumes.”  Foreign companies sold 35.5 percent of Singapore dollar-
denominated bonds this year, and Genting Singapore was the
biggest issuer, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Perpetual Bonds  The unit of Kuala Lumpur-based  Genting Bhd. (GENT)  sold S$1.8
billion of perpetual notes in March, to yield 5.125 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It’s the biggest bond
outstanding for any Singaporean company, the data show. Keppel,
the world’s biggest maker of oil rigs, offered a total of S$900
million of securities this year, including S$400 million of
3.145 percent February 2022 notes.  One-year fixed-deposit rates at banks declined to 0.29
percent this year, a record low, according to central bank  data 
going back to 1983.  Average yields on Singapore-dollar bonds for companies fell
20 basis points, or 0.2 percentage points, to 2.713 percent,
this year, according to HSBC indexes. Global companies pay 3.345
percent, Bank of America Merrill Lynch indexes show.  Swiber Holdings Ltd. (SWIB)  is marketing a four-year Singapore
dollar note at a final yield of 7 percent, a person familiar
with the matter said today, asking not to be identified because
the details are private.  Private-bank clients were especially drawn to perpetual
bonds, said Su Shan Tan, head of private banking at Singapore-
based DBS. With no fixed maturity and no principal repayment,
these notes generally pay a higher yield.  Casinos, Formula One  Companies have sold more than S$4 billion of these bonds
this year, more than any other year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg that stretches back to 1999. As much as 80 percent
of these perpetual notes are bought by private and consumer
banks, according to Citigroup’s wealth management unit.  Singapore and  Hong Kong  combined may surpass  Switzerland  as
an offshore center in the next 15 years to 20 years, the Boston
Consulting Group research said.  “Singapore, as a city-state, is attractive to high net
worth individuals not just as a center to manage their wealth,
but also as a place to live, work and play,” said Vish Jain,
partner and managing director at the consulting firm in
Singapore.  The island held the first night race of Formula One, the
world’s most-watched motor sport, in 2008. The government
overturned a ban on casinos in 2005, leading to the opening of
Resorts World Sentosa and Marina Bay Sands in 2010. These
efforts helped Singapore draw a record 13.2 million tourists in
2011.  “People in Asia are accumulating wealth, with a lot of the
money held in Singapore,” said James Fielder, Hong Kong-based
head of local currency syndicate at HSBC, the second-largest
underwriter this year. “Private banks will continue to
participate in the deals that are suitable for them as Singapore
is a center for private wealth.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tanya Angerer in Singapore at 
 tangerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Shelley Smith  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net  