-- Public Pensions Face Wider Deficits Under New Rules
-- B y   D a r r e l l   P r e s t o n   a n d   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2012-06-25T20:05:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/public-pensions-face-more-pressure-under-accounting-rules-1-.html
State and local governments coping
with years of underfunding and weak investment returns will be
forced to clarify the extent of pension deficits under rules set
today that will widen the gaps for some plans.  The measures adopted by the Governmental Accounting
Standards Board alter methods of calculating liabilities and
assets by the retirement systems. The changes will mean pensions
for public workers in  Illinois ,  New Jersey ,  Indiana  and Kentucky
have less than 30 percent of assets needed to meet liabilities,
according to the Boston College Center for Retirement Research.  “We’re expecting some troubled credits to look worse,”
 Richard Ciccarone , managing director of McDonnell Investment
Management LLC in  Oak Brook , Illinois, which oversees $8 billion
in municipal securities, said by telephone. “That will cause
some shock and awe.”  The board voted unanimously to make the changes, starting
next year, during a teleconference. States and cities rattled by
the credit crisis that deepened the longest recession since the
Great Depression have been pressed to put more money into their
pensions and cut benefits to prevent shortfalls from leading to
insolvency. The rules may provide fodder for politicians seeking
to roll back government obligations to retirees.  Assumptions Vary  The magnitude of the collected unfunded liabilities ranges
from $900 billion to more than $4 trillion, depending on the
assumptions used to account for benefits owed decades later.  The rules are aimed at limiting accounting techniques that
mask liabilities and will improve financial reporting by
pensions. That will clarify the size and nature of a fund’s
obligations, Robert Attmore, chairman of the Norwalk,
Connecticut-based board, said today by telephone.  “We say it’s a more accurate picture of the financial
position,” he said. “The new standards will provide better
information. The ultimate goal is to make things more
transparent.”  Long-term promises made by defined-benefit pension plans
will be categorized as a liability on financial statements for
the first time, to “more comprehensively and comparably measure
the annual cost,” according to a statement from the board.  Annual Contributions  The new rules will remove a key tool for evaluating the
health of funds, the so-called annual required contributions --
how much needs to be put in by the government responsible for a
plan to maintain adequate financing, said Stephen Gauthier,
director of technical services for the Government Finance
Officers Association in  Chicago .  “What people want to know is what do they need to do,”
Gauthier said by telephone. “Are they meeting or not meeting
their funding obligations?”  Pensions will still have to disclose some information about
contributions that need to be made in comparison to what is
actually put in over 10 years, John Pappas, a GASB spokesman,
said by e-mail.  The changes may prompt governments to put away less than
they should to keep retirement systems viable, while helping the
case made by political opponents of public-sector unions, said
Harold Schaitberger, the general president of the International
Association of Fire Fighters.  ‘Unfunded Liability’  “The new provisions will have the effect of increasing the
unfunded liability when the actual numbers won’t change,”
Schaitberger said. “It will give a view of the system that’s
going to play into the hands of those -- at the risk of
overstating it -- who have been waiting for this moment.”  Adding to reported liabilities means “legislators will see
it and have to deal with it,” Kinney Poynter, executive
director of the National Association of State Auditors,
Comptrollers and Treasurers in Lexington,  Kentucky , said by
telephone.  “The general public will see it as a more accurate
reflection of the liability that already exists,” Poynter said.  The changes represent an attempt to compromise in the
debate over using projected investment returns when calculating
the size of unfunded liabilities, said Alicia Munnell, the
director of the Boston College center in Newton,  Massachusetts .  Meet Halfway  “They think they’re trying to meet people halfway and what
you’re really getting is sausage,” she said. “The numbers will
change, but the reality hasn’t changed at all.”  Pensions will still be able to cut reported liabilities by
assuming higher returns on invested assets, said  Andrew Biggs ,
an analyst with the  American Enterprise Institute  in  Washington .  As a result, he said, funds that pour money into risky
investments with potentially higher payoffs will look healthier
than retirement systems that play it safe.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Darrell Preston in  Dallas  at 
 dpreston@bloomberg.net ;
 William Selway  in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  