-- QPR’s Barton Fined, Stripped of Captaincy Over Man. City Bust-Up
-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 2012-06-25T12:22:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/qpr-s-barton-fined-stripped-of-captaincy-over-man-city-bust-up.html
Queens Park Rangers said it fined
 Joey Barton  six weeks’ wages and stripped him of the soccer
club’s captaincy after incidents in a game at Manchester City.  Barton, 29, was red-carded in the second half of the May 13
game, on the last day of the Premier League season. He’s already
been banned for 12 games and fined 75,000 pounds ($117,000) by
the Football Association over the incidents.  Barton was sent off the field for elbowing City’s  Carlos Tevez , then kneed  Sergio Aguero  from behind and clashed with
 Vincent Kompany  as he left the field.  West London team QPR said it took the disciplinary action
after a “full internal investigation.” Barton will also miss
the club’s pre-season tour of  Asia  in July.  QPR said  that if Barton seriously breaches its disciplinary
procedures again, “the club reserves the right to terminate his
contract.”  The player apologized for his actions, which QPR Chief
Executive Officer Philip Beard said were “completely
unacceptable.”  “My behavior was wrong and I accept the punishment that
has been imposed upon me as a result,” Barton told the club
website. “I apologize to the manager, my teammates and of course
the QPR fans for my actions. I also apologize to the  Manchester
City  players, staff and supporters.”  City clinched the league title for the first time in 44
years with a 3-2 win over QPR after two injury-time goals. QPR
stayed in the elite division as Bolton was relegated after a
draw at Stoke on the same day.  Controversy  There had been speculation the club might try to transfer
Barton during the offseason. He still has three years of a four-
year contract left. The ban will take effect at the start of
next season.  Former Manchester City and Newcastle midfielder Barton has
a history of controversy. He spent 77 days in prison in 2008 for
an assault in his native Liverpool. The same year, he was
convicted of a training-ground attack on former City teammate
Ousmane Dabo though was spared a prison term.  Earlier this month, he was bailed after being arrested
following a fight outside a Liverpool nightclub, the British
Broadcasting Corp. reported.  Barton joined Newcastle from City for 5.8 million pounds in
June 2007 and switched to QPR last August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  