-- Quest Gets $27.50-a-Share Bid, Topping Insight’s Offer
-- B y   L i s a   R a p a p o r t   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-06-25T13:38:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/quest-gets-27-50-a-share-bid-topping-insight-s-offer.html
Quest Software Inc. (QSFT) , the software
maker that agreed to be bought by a group led by Insight Venture
Partners, said it has received a higher offer of $27.50 a share
in cash, the third buyout increase announced this year.  The bid from an unidentified strategic suitor is superior
to a $25.75-a-share offer Quest accepted from Insight last week,
the  Aliso Viejo , California-based  software company  said today in
a statement.  Dell Inc. (DELL)  had previously offered to acquire Quest,
according to a person familiar with the matter.  Quest said on March 9 it agreed to be acquired by Insight
for $23 a share, and two months later said it received several
other proposals that it anticipated would lead to a superior
offer. Chief Executive Officer Vincent Smith prefers a sale to
Insight over Dell because it would allow him to keep running the
company, said the person, who asked not to be named because the
negotiations are private.  “The strategic bidder is likely Dell,” said Aaron Schwartz, an analyst for Jefferies & Co. in New York, in a
telephone interview today. “It would give them a relatively
decent foundation for an enterprise software business. They’ve
acquired storage companies, they’ve acquired networking
companies, but they have not built out a software business
relative to their peers.”  Tracy Benelli, a Quest spokeswoman, and  Jess Blackburn , a
Dell spokesman didn’t immediately return calls for comment.
Blair Flicker, general counsel at Insight Venture Partners,
declined to comment.  Shares Surge  Quest’s shares surged 5.6 percent to $27.69 at 9:34 a.m. in
New York. The  stock  had advanced 41 percent this year.  Quest’s software helps businesses administer databases and
servers, as well as back up information and recover lost data.
Insight, a New York-based private equity firm, specializes in
software and Internet businesses.  Dell, the world’s third-largest PC maker, told analysts at
a June 13 meeting it plans to use deals to boost revenue from
data-center hardware, software and services by 45 percent to
$27.5 billion by fiscal 2016, reducing the company’s reliance on
the slow-growing desktop and notebook computer business.  The last time Dell engaged in a public takeover fight was
in 2010, when it lost storage company 3Par Inc. to  Hewlett-
Packard Co. (HPQ) , which bought it for $2.35 billion, after the 18-day
bidding contest tripled the company’s market value.  Michael Dell , founder of the  Round Rock , Texas-based
company, told Bloomberg News last year that HP overpaid for
3Par, and he made the right decision in dropping out of the
process.  IPO Investor  Insight, a New York-based private equity firm, first
invested in Quest in 1999 and was the company’s largest
institutional investor at the time of its IPO that year,
according to a regulatory  filing  at the time. Insight co-founder
Jerry Murdock also served on Quest’s board of directors.  Vector Capital, a San Francisco-based private equity firm,
joined Insight in the offer for Quest announced last week.  “With the expansion of the buyout group last week, it does
give them flexibility to increase their bid,” said Schwartz.
“But it’s limited at this price.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Rapaport in  New York  at 
 lrapaport1@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  