-- Rammy’s Point to Where Washington’s Players Dine: Scene
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-06-25T15:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/rammy-s-point-to-where-washington-s-players-dine-scene.html
Vikram Sunderam said the
International Monetary Fund’s managing director,  Christine Lagarde , recently dined in his Indian restaurant Rasika.  Sunderam was named 2012 Chef of the Year last night at the
Rammys, the annual Restaurant Association Metropolitan
Washington gala, which was held at the Marriott Wardman Park
Hotel.  Jeff and Barbara Black were named Restaurateurs of the
Year for their leadership of the Black Restaurant Group eateries
in Washington and Maryland. Their 14th Street bar, Black Jack,
was deemed Hottest Restaurant Bar Scene, and their Blacksalt
Fish Market was honored as Upscale Casual Restaurant.  Jeff Black 
said  Michelle Obama  stopped by for some seafood there earlier
this year.  Readers of Where magazine gave McCormick & Schmick’s their
Visitors Choice Award, and Founding Farmers, just a stone’s
throw from the White House, was voted top Power Spot.  Martha Stewart  and policy geeks from the  World Bank  are fond of
breaking bread at Founding Farmers.  Bourbon Steak, the restaurant at the Four Seasons on
Pennsylvania Avenue, was named best Fine Dining Restaurant. The
spot is popular with diplomats.  Ed Witt received the Rising Culinary Star award for his
work at 701 Restaurant in the Penn Quarter, where he says he
serves a long list of legislators who stop by for the rockfish
tartare.  Amour for Adour  Adour’s Fabrice Bendano, a native of Paris, was named best
pastry chef. He’s known for his macaroons and other sweets that
have boosted female visitors, colleagues joked.  Members of the Restaurant Association Metropolitan
 Washington  solicit nominations in the various categories, and an
anonymous panel of food writers and experts makes the final
decision.  Fiola in Penn Quarter was named best new restaurant. Many
of last night’s attendees, like last year’s Chef of the Year,
Todd Gray of Equinox, stressed the importance of a nomination,
especially its impact on a young chef and a new restaurant.  The theme of the gala was “Hats Off to Restaurants,” and
guests turned out in everything from frilly fascinators to macho
Stetsons.  Former Washington Mayor Anthony Williams, who received the
association’s Duke Zeibert Capital Achievement Award for his
dedication to improving the city’s dining scene, came out in a
simple baseball cap.  Central Hats  After the awards ceremony, guests descended on the hotel’s
ballroom for the gala. Hats were placed on tables as
centerpieces. Food stations representing cuisine from  Australia ,
 Spain  and neighbor  Virginia  offered three-course meals.  Australia touted its native wild mushroom and sundried
tomato polenta cakes, and Spain offered “pintxos,” morsels to
be paired with wine like the 2011 Egeo Verdejo that was served.  Virginia served artisanal cheeses with assorted jams,
chutney and peanuts, seared Chesapeake Bay Ray and scallop
cakes, and fresh oyster shooters. Bourbon Steak provided one of
the featured beverage stations.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  John Mariani  on wine and  Hephzibah
Anderson  on books.  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net 
or on Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 