-- Rand Weakens for Third Day as Commodities Fall on Growth Concern
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d   a n d   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-06-25T15:53:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/rand-retreats-for-third-day-as-euro-declines-before-eu-summit.html
The rand fell to its lowest in three
weeks and bonds dropped as European leaders prepared for a
summit amid concern the debt crisis is threatening the global
economy, damping demand for riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated as much as 1.5 percent
to 8.5261 per dollar, the weakest intraday level since June 5,
and traded 1.3 percent lower at 8.5049 by 5:35 p.m. in
Johannesburg, declining for a third day. Yields on the nation’s
6.75 percent bonds due 2021 climbed five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 7.39 percent.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  rejected joint euro-bloc
bonds or bills, raising concern that European Union leaders may
fail to tame financial turmoil at the June 28-29 summit. Italy
and  Spain  prepare to sell debt tomorrow amid concern the fiscal
crisis is infecting bigger economies. Citigroup said  China’s
economy  may grow 7.8 percent this year, compared with a previous
estimate of 8.1 percent, reflecting “anemic” domestic activity
in the second quarter and further weakening of European demand.  “Concern over the future of the eurozone remains high,”
Nomvuyo Guma, a currency strategist at Standard Bank Group Ltd.
in Johannesburg, said in e-mailed comments. “Sentiment looks
set to remain shaky. We thus maintain our view that the rand
retains its weakening bias in the short term.”  The euro dropped to $1.2535, the lowest in more than a
week. The rand often tracks the euro, with a statistical
correlation of 0.9 over the past month. A value of 1 would mean
they moved in lock step. The euro area and  China  together buy a
third of South Africa’s exports.  Emerging-market stocks  fell to a two-week low and the
Standard & Poor’s GSCI  index  of raw materials declined. Metals
and other commodities account for 45 percent of South Africa’s
exports. The nation’s benchmark stock  index  retreated for a
third day in its longest losing streak since May 21.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  