-- RBS Glitch May Cost ‘Hundreds of Millions,’ Analyst Says
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e
-- 2012-06-25T15:59:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/rbs-glitch-may-cost-hundreds-of-millions-analyst-says-1-.html
Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc ’s
computer glitch that stopped customers from making payments and
accessing money, may cost the lender “hundreds of millions of
pounds,”  according to Shore Capital Stockbrokers Ltd.  Canceling fees and paying employees for working extra hours
may cost tens of millions of pounds, while compensation claims
could push the total into the hundreds of millions, Gary Greenwood, a banking analyst at Shore Capital, wrote in an e-
mail to clients today. If 1 percent of customers were to claim
500 pounds ($777) each for financial loss, the bank would have
to pay 85 million pounds, he said.  Britain’s biggest  government-owned bank  is extending hours
at more than 1,200 branches in the U.K. and Ireland this week
after opening over the weekend, following what it said was a
“systems outage” that started on June 19. The ability of
customers to make cash withdrawals, money transfers and payments
was curtailed by the breakdown.  “From an investment case perspective, it doesn’t make much
difference,” Greenwood said. “We do not believe reputational
damage will be too significant or lasting, although, at the
margin, it does strengthen the hand of new entrants” such as
Metro Bank Plc, he said.  Clearing Backlog  The technical problem is fixed, NatWest, a retail unit of
RBS affected by the glitch, told customers in an e-mail on June
23. RBS is working at clearing a backlog of transactions before
it begins estimating what the cost might be, Nicky Harris, a
spokeswoman, said by telephone today.  The bank is “making progress in putting things right” and
customers can withdraw 100 pounds above their agreed credit
limit, RBS said today.  RBS will take the glitch into consideration when
considering executive bonuses, Chief Executive Officer  Stephen Hester  said in an interview with  Sky News  today. “All of us are
judged in part on  customer service  from me downwards,” he said.
“There’ll be proper accountability” and RBS “will be able to
take the financial consequences,” Hester said.  The bank last month said it’s approaching a loan-to-deposit
ratio of 100 percent, indicating that it takes a pound in
deposits for every pound it lends. The ratio was 154 percent in
2008, which meant RBS was reliant on wholesale markets to fund
its balance sheet.  “The issue is attracting a massive amount of bad publicity
for the bank and will undoubtedly have a cost in terms of
customers being recompensed for losses and the possibility of
the loss of deposits at a time when improving the bank’s loan to
deposit ratio is a key target,”  Christopher Wheeler , a London-
based analyst at Mediobanca SpA, said in a note to clients
today.  -- Editors: Jon Menon, Steve Bailey  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in  London  at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  