-- Treasury 10-Year Yields Fall Most in Week on Euro Concern
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-06-25T21:38:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/treasuries-rise-on-concern-euro-crisis-is-growing.html
Treasury 10-year yields fell the
most in more than a week as investors sought refuge amid
speculation European leaders will fail to make progress on
stemming the euro bloc’s debt crisis at a two-day  summit .  U.S. government securities gained, extending a quarterly
advance, as German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hardened her
resistance to euro-area debt sharing to resolve the crisis,
setting  Germany  on a collision course with its allies before the
meeting. The U.S. will auction $99 billion of notes this week,
beginning tomorrow.  “There have been so many promises, so many meetings and so
little produced on the European front,” said Larry Milstein,
managing director in New York of government and agency debt
trading at R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and
dealer for institutional investors. “In this environment, you
buy any dips in prices and play the range.”  The 10-year note  yield  slid seven basis points, or 0.07
percentage point, to 1.60 percent at 5:36 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was the biggest
intraday drop since June 15. The 1.75 percent security maturing
in May 2022 advanced 21/32, or $6.56 per $1,000 face amount, to
101 11/32.  Yields on the 30-year bond dropped nine basis points to
2.68 percent.  Trading  volume   shrank. About $164 billion of Treasuries
changed hands as of 5:33 p.m. through ICAP Plc, the world’s
largest interdealer broker, the lowest since May 25 and down 9
percent from June 22’s $181 billion. Volume touched $396 billion
on May 31. The average over the past year is $254 billion.  Volatility Drops  Volatility declined for a sixth straight day, the longest
stretch since March, according to Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s MOVE index. It fell to 72.8 basis points, the lowest
level since May 29. The index measures price swings based on
options. It dropped 20 basis points last week, the most since
June 2009.  Ten-year yields have fallen 61 basis points this quarter
and have decreased 27 basis points in 2012. Treasuries returned
1.6 percent this year as of June 22, after gaining 9.8 percent
in 2011, according to the Bank of America Merrill Lynch Treasury
Master Index.  A valuation measure showed the benchmark notes trading at
almost the most expensive level ever. The term premium, a model
created by economists at the  Federal Reserve , was at negative
0.87 percent, after reaching a record negative 0.94 percent June
1 as investors sought refuge from Europe’s debt turmoil.  A negative reading indicates investors are willing to
accept yields below what’s considered fair value. The average
over the past decade is 0.50 percent.  European Summit  Stocks dropped, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index losing
1.6 percent and the MSCI World Index falling 1.4 percent.  Treasuries climbed before European leaders open their
summit June 28 in Brussels. Germany’s Merkel said in a speech in
Berlin the goal is a political union with stronger oversight.
Proposals for joint euro-area bonds or bills and joint  deposit
insurance  are “wrong and counterproductive,” she said.  Merkel’s comments kill off any hopes her fellow leaders in
France, Italy and  Spain  may have had of a quick fix to bring
down borrowing costs across the 17-nation euro region.  “It’s the risk-off trade again,” said Justin Lederer, an
interest-rate strategist at Cantor Fitzgerald LP in New York,
one of 21 the primary dealers that trade with the Fed. “We go
back and forth with concerns out of  Europe . People want to be
optimistic, but there’s just so much uncertainty.”  Cyprus Plea  Cyprus became the fifth euro nation to seek a financial
lifeline from the bloc’s bailout funds, after  Greece , Ireland,
 Portugal  and Spain. The third-smallest economy in the currency
union cited spillover from Greece. The request will be limited
to support for Cypriot banks, which need less than 6 billion
euros ($7.5 billion), according to a person familiar with the
bailout. Fitch Ratings Co. downgraded Cyprus to BB+, below
investment grade.  Spain asked on June 9 for a bailout of as much as 100
billion euros to prop up its banks. Moody’s downgraded 28
Spanish banks today by one to four levels after cutting the
nation’s government bond ratings on June 13 to Baa3 from A3.  The billionaire investor  George Soros  said yesterday Europe
should start a fund to purchase the bonds of Italy and Spain in
return for budget cuts in the nations. European leaders are
running out of time to show investors they will do what’s
necessary to save their currency, he said in an interview in
 London  with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua.  ‘Fiasco’ Possible  “There is a disagreement on the fiscal side,” Soros said.
“Unless that is resolved in the next three days, then I am
afraid the summit could turn out to be a fiasco.”  The Treasury will auction $35 billion of two-year notes
tomorrow, the same amount of five-year securities the next day
and $29 billion of seven-year debt on June 28.  The Fed sold $8.37 billion of Treasuries today due from
March to October 2014 as part of its Operation Twist program to
cap borrowing costs, according to the Fed Bank of New York.  Central-bank officials led by Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  last
week extended the program, which is selling $400 billion of
shorter maturities and replacing them with longer-term debt
through the end of this month, until year-end. They increased it
by $267 billion.  The  difference  between yields on 10- and 30-year Treasuries
narrowed to 107 basis points, from 109 on June 22. The spread
has decreased from this year’s closing high of 120 basis points
in May, known as a flattening of the yield curve.  Treasuries remained higher even after sales of new homes in
the U.S. increased in May more than forecast, rising 7.6 percent
to a 369,000 annual rate. A Bloomberg News survey projected a
rate of 347,000.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  