-- Treasury’s Brainard Urges Completing Euro-Region Overhaul
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-06-25T18:28:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/treasury-s-brainard-urges-completing-euro-region-overhaul.html
Lael Brainard, the U.S. Treasury
Department’s chief international official, said Europeans are
moving with a heightened sense of urgency to resolve their debt
crisis and called for completion of financial backstops.  “Euro-area authorities are continuing to make their
financial backstops credible and effective in the face of market
pressures,” Brainard said at a Women’s Foreign Policy Group
event today. “It is important that countries such as  Spain  and
 Italy  have sustainable borrowing costs as they undertake
ambitious fiscal and structural reforms over several years.”  Brainard, the Treasury Department’s undersecretary for
international affairs, urged the 17 nations that use the euro to
complete the terms of support for the restructuring authority to
strengthen Spain’s banking system.  As concern mounts over their banking systems and finances,
Spanish and Italian leaders have added their voices to those
calling for more decisive action, a counterpoint to  Germany ’s
more incremental approach to solving the 2 1/2-year-old crisis.
European Union leaders will attend pre-summit meetings as they
work to narrow differences before the June 28-29 gathering in
Brussels.  “In the days and weeks ahead it will be critical to see
actions to address near-term stresses while laying a path to
greater financial and fiscal union, necessary complements to
monetary union,” Brainard said.  She also urged lengthening the time frame for some of the
reforms.  “There may be greater willingness to stretch out fiscal
adjustment over a more appropriate time frame, recognizing the
dangers posed to both growth and fiscal performance of
contracting too sharply into a downturn,” Brainard said. “The
new government in  Greece  and the troika have stated their
intention to work out a path to reform and sustainability within
the euro area.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  