-- Reforms Key to Boost Flows to India, Prabhudas’s Sabharwal Says
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2012-06-25T12:46:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/reforms-key-to-boost-flows-to-india-prabhudas-s-sabharwal-says.html
Sandip Sabharwal, chief executive
officer of portfolio management services at Prabhudas Lilladher
Pvt. in Mumbai, comments on the outlook of Indian stocks after
the central bank announced some measures to arrest the slide in
the rupee, which fell to a record on June 22.  He spoke in a phone interview.  On equity markets:  “Money will come in when people find it attractive to put
up capital, for which we need reforms to boost economic growth
rather than measures to boost flows. Markets were holding up in
expectation of positive announcements on reforms. Nothing of
that sort happened and the markets sold off.”  The benchmark BSE  India  Sensitive Index lost 0.5 percent to
16,882.16 at close in Mumbai. The gauge is headed for its first
quarterly retreat since the three month ended December.  On foreign investments:  “Capital flows happen for a reason, they don’t happen in
isolation. You can open up the entire space and ask investors to
put money on India, but they will come only when they feel
confident. The announcements that came at the weekend, from the
 finance ministry  as well as the Prime Minister, indicated that
the government is really serious about doing something. Nothing
of that sort happened today.”  On the rupee:  “The rupee is oversold and it just needs a small trigger
to reverse direction. Once growth is revived, the rupee will
appreciate on its own. I don’t think the rupee will fall much
from current levels, but whether it will reverse its direction
and appreciate meaningfully will depend on government policy.”  On the next finance minister:  “Ideally, they should announce the new finance minister
tomorrow or it will be taken as a negative. In such troubled
times, you need someone who is focussed on the job. Unlike in a
booming economy where you don’t have to do much, today you need
to take bold steps and for that you need a dedicated finance
minister. It’s a necessity.”  Finance minister  Pranab Mukherjee , the ruling Congress
party’s nominee for president, will resign from his current post
tomorrow, Congress party General Secretary Janardan Dwivedi told
reporters today, without naming the successor. A group of
federal and state legislators elects the next president July 19.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  