-- Rehn Says Spain Bailout Conditions to Apply to Banks, Industry
-- B y   P a t r i c k   H e n r y
-- 2012-06-25T12:32:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/rehn-says-spain-bailout-conditions-to-apply-to-banks-industry.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said the terms of a Spanish
bailout package for its banking industry will include conditions
for the individual banks recapitalized under the program and for
the country’s financial industry as a whole.  Spain  today formally requested rescue aid for its banks as
it negotiated details of the program, including which European
bailout facility would be used for the lifeline of as much as
100 billion euros ($125 billion). A memorandum of understanding
will be finished before a meeting of euro-area finance chiefs on
July 9, according to Spain’s Economy Ministry.  “Restructuring the banking sector is key to reinforce the
confidence in the Spanish economy and to restore the conditions
to proper access to credit by companies and households, thus for
sustaining the recovery,” Rehn said in a  statement  posted on
the European Commission’s website.  Spain agreed to the bailout after a conference call with
euro-area finance chiefs on June 9. Spanish banks, still reeling
from a real-estate slump now in its fifth year, may need as much
as 62 billion euros to withstand a worst-case economic scenario,
studies by two consulting firms hired by the government showed
on June 21.  Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , who leads
the group of euro-area finance ministers, said he had received
Spain’s aid application and would issue a formal response “in
due course.”  ‘Starting Point’  The commission will now step up its work to assess the
needs of Spain’s banks and to prepare a proposal on conditions
to be attached to the aid in cooperation with the staff of the
 European Central Bank , the  International Monetary Fund  and the
European Banking Authority, Rehn said.  “The  capital requirements  recently estimated by two
private firms provide a good starting point for this work,” he
said. “I am confident that we can conclude an agreement on the
memorandum of understanding in a matter of weeks so that we can
proceed with the restructuring effort.”  Rehn said he expects Spain “to keep the same determination
and the momentum in the reforms that can bring sustainable
growth and more and better jobs, as well as to honor its
commitments under the excessive-deficit procedure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Patrick Henry  in Brussels at 
 phenry8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  