-- Rocky Flats Suit Back to Square One in 22-Year Dispute
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-25T14:29:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/rocky-flats-suit-back-to-square-one-in-22-year-dispute.html
Property owners seeking damages for
radioactive contamination from  Colorado ’s Rocky Flats nuclear
weapons plant have to start over, after the U.S. Supreme Court
refused to consider reinstating a $926 million judgment in their
22-year-old lawsuit.  The high court today, without comment, rejected the
landowners’ challenge to a federal appeals court ruling, which
threw out a jury’s verdict and sent the case back for a new
trial.  The Denver-based 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
the trial judge mistakenly ruled that owners of more than 15,000
nearby parcels only had to show that plutonium from the plant
was found on their land and hurt property values. A federal law
governing liability from nuclear incidents requires additional
proof that leaks of radioactive material actually damaged
property, hindered its use or caused bodily injuries, the
appeals court ruled.  “A landowner whose property is devalued because of
plutonium contamination has suffered both an invasion of his
property and genuine, immediate economic harm,” the property
holders said in their unsuccessful request for Supreme Court
review.  The class-action lawsuit was filed in January 1990 against
Rockwell International Corp. and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , which
operated the facility at different times under contracts with
the federal government. Under federal law, the government
indemnifies operators of nuclear facilities like Rocky Flats for
damages exceeding the limits of liability insurance policies.  Single Atom  Rockwell and Dow said the landowners are pushing for legal
rules that would allow damages for “the mere presence of a
single radioactive atom,” without proving any actual damage
beyond concern about potential risks and the effect of
“alarmist rhetoric” on property values. Testing showed “very,
very small” plutonium exposures, “indistinguishable” from
amounts found worldwide as a result of nuclear weapons tests,
they said.  The Obama administration backed the companies, saying
federal law permits suits for nuclear-related damages only if
contamination is serious enough to at least keep owners from
typical uses of their property.  The law requires “something more than de minimis
contamination that lowers property values,” the Justice
Department brief said. “Had Congress meant to make
contamination of property -- without accompanying physical
damage or loss of use -- a sufficient basis” for a lawsuit “it
would have included contamination in the list of actionable
harms.”  Federal Law  A trial judge had ruled that Colorado laws governed the
jury’s consideration of harm from radioactive contamination and
didn’t require proof of damage. The appeals court, agreeing with
the companies, said, while standards under state law may be
considered, they come into play only after the landowners
satisfy minimum thresholds specified in a federal law governing
lawsuits about nuclear incidents.  The lawsuit has dragged on for two decades after the
facility northwest of Denver was closed in 1992. Manufacturing
work was halted in 1989 after federal agents raided the plant in
an investigation of Rockwell’s hazardous-waste storage and
disposal practices. After a cleanup, the area is now a wildlife
refuge.  In 1992, Rockwell pleaded guilty to criminal environmental
violations and agreed to pay an $18.5 million fine. Rockwell
sold its aerospace and defense businesses to  Boeing Co. (BA)  in 1996.  The lawsuit by owners of properties east of Rocky Flats
alleges that plutonium was illegally released into the air and
water and contaminated their land. After 16 years of legal
preliminaries, a jury sided with the landowners in January 2006.  The group was awarded $177 million of compensatory damages
and $200 million of punitive damages. With interest calculated
back to 1990, the total came to more than $926 million.  The case is Cook v. Rockwell International Corp., 10-1377.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  