-- Arizona Ruling Shows Immigration Minefield in 2012 Race
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-06-26T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/romney-says-he-favors-more-latitude-for-states-on-immigration.html
Mitt Romney , in Arizona for campaign
fundraisers, issued a guarded response to yesterday’s Supreme
Court decision voiding most of the state’s crackdown on illegal
immigration, highlighting the political peril for the presumed
Republican presidential nominee on the issue.  For Romney, the ruling offered yet another reminder that
the former Massachusetts governor took hardline stances on
illegal immigration during his party’s primary, yet is now
pledging to pursue a long-term bipartisan solution during his
first year in office without specifying what that would entail.  “Mitt Romney has dug himself into a great, big hole with
Latinos on immigration,” said Ana Navarro, a Republican
strategist who advised the party’s 2008 nominee, Arizona Senator
 John McCain , on Hispanic outreach. Romney is not confronting
President  Barack Obama  “in a real way, and if he doesn’t, Obama
is going to get a free pass on this.”  For the president, whose administration sued to block the
Arizona law, the decision marked a partial victory. The court
struck down provisions making it a state crime for those in the
U.S. illegally to seek work or be in the state without proper
documentation. Still, the ruling called attention to the fact
that Obama hasn’t fulfilled his 2008 campaign pledge to create a
pathway to legal status for some of the nation’s 11.5 million
illegal immigrants.  Republican Base  The decision spotlighted an issue that pits two politically
potent constituencies Romney needs against each other: the
Republican base, which favors get-tough immigration enforcement
policies like Arizona’s, and independents and particularly
Hispanic voters, many of whom are alienated by such measures.  After Romney spent most of yesterday avoiding questions on
the ruling, the Republican challenger highlighted the
dysfunction of the current immigration system at an event in
Scottsdale, Arizona.  “Given the failure of the immigration policy in this
country, I would have preferred to see the  Supreme Court  give
more latitude to states, not less,” Romney told about 200
donors. “States now, under this decision, have less authority,
less latitude to enforce immigration laws.”  He followed that comment with a tirade directed at Obama,
that blamed the “muddle” of the U.S. immigration system on the
president’s inaction: “Why, Mr. President, did you not do what
you said you’d do?” Romney said during the event at the
Scottsdale Plaza Resort.  Obama ‘Pleased’  Obama used the ruling to bolster his argument that he’s
fighting for immigration reform and protecting civil rights. In
a White House statement, Obama said he was “pleased” with the
decision to strike down most of the law, yet concerned about the
remaining part that requires  Arizona  police to check immigration
status of people they suspect are in the country illegally.  “We must ensure that Arizona law enforcement officials do
not enforce this law in a manner that undermines the civil
rights of Americans,” Obama said.  The president didn’t mention the ruling during appearances
in  New Hampshire  and  Boston  yesterday. He will have a tailor-
made audience to talk about the ruling’s implications and his
call for Congress to take up an overhaul today, when he raises
money from Hispanic supporters in swing-state  Florida .  After two campaign events in Atlanta, Obama is scheduled to
travel to Miami, attending a 30-donor, $40,000-per-ticket event
at the home of Abigail Pollak, a Peruvian-born lawyer and
political fundraiser active in Latino voting rights causes.
Obama also is to attend a 1,500-donor event featuring singer
 Marc Anthony , a Grammy and Latin Grammy winner, with tickets
starting at $44.  State Duty  Romney waited until a session with contributors, with no
cameras and only a few reporters present, to address the ruling
in person yesterday. His campaign issued a statement shortly
after the decision was announced in which Romney said that,
“each state has the duty -- and the right -- to secure our
borders and preserve the rule of law, particularly when the
federal government has failed to meet its responsibilities.”  His aides said Romney would likely have no further comment
on the matter, declining to make him available for press
questions on his campaign plane about the Arizona decision and
refusing repeatedly to clarify his stance on it or the
underlying law.  “The governor supports the rights of states,”  Rick Gorka ,
Romney’s traveling press secretary, told reporters, citing the
10th Amendment on states’ rights. “That’s all we’re going to
say on this issue.”  Balancing Act  Romney’s balancing act reflects shifting ground in the
immigration debate that began with Obama’s announcement --widely
popular, according to a June 15-18 Bloomberg Poll -- that the
government would seek to not deport certain illegal immigrants
ages 30 and younger who were brought to the  United States  as
children, were otherwise law-abiding, and were attending school
or had served in the military, said Tamar Jacoby, the president
of ImmigrationWorks USA, a network of businesses favoring an
immigration overhaul.  “The Obama order kind of lifted the veil on a changing
public mood, and you’re starting to see the results of that with
Romney and other Republicans,” said Jacoby, who has advised
McCain and other members of his party on immigration policy.  “I think they feel that that segment of the public that
thinks it’s possible to have such tough enforcement that you
drive immigrants away is not driving opinion anymore, and the
portion of the public that realizes that we can’t deport
millions of unauthorized immigrants has gotten stronger,”
Jacoby said.  ‘Right Tone’  By making vague statements on immigration and refusing to
weigh in on key questions about it, Navarro said, Romney is
passing up opportunities to capitalize on that shift.  “If we had the right tone, the right message and the right
messenger, we definitely could chip away at Obama’s advantage
with Latinos,” Navarro said. “I think Romney has made a very
big mistake, and he’s been compounding on the mistake in the
past several months with this narrative that he’s avoiding the
immigration issue like the bubonic plague.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Don Frederick at 
 dfrederick1@bloomberg.net  