-- Storm Debby Stationary in Gulf, Away From Platforms
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r o w n   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-06-25T12:13:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/tropical-storm-debby-weakens-in-gulf-off-florida.html
Tropical Storm Debby held steady in
the  Gulf of Mexico  off the  Florida  Panhandle after shifting away
from oil- and natural gas-production areas where Anadarko
Petroleum Corp., BP Plc and rivals halted output.  Debby’s top winds are 50 miles (80 kilometers) per hour,
down from 60 mph earlier, as the storm sat about 90 miles south-
southwest of Apalachicola, Florida, the  National Hurricane
Center  said in an advisory at 8 a.m. East Coast time. Little
change in speed or strength is expected in the next day or two,
the NHC said.  The storm’s track has moved away from  Louisiana  toward
northwestern Florida. The NHC’s current forecast calls for a
possible Panhandle landfall on June 29 with drenching rains,
coastal flooding and isolated tornadoes, but warns that the
track remains undetermined.  The Gulf of Mexico is home to 6.5 percent of U.S. natural
gas production, 29 percent of oil output and 40 percent of
refining capacity. Offshore oil and natural gas platforms need
to carry out evacuations in advance of a storm’s arrival so any
system in the Gulf can cause production disruptions.  The U.S. Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement
said yesterday that 23 percent of both oil and gas production in
the Gulf has been halted. Natural gas rose for a third day in
New York.  Anadarko, BP, Apache Corp., Chevron Corp.,  ConocoPhillips (COP) ,
BHP Billiton Ltd.,  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR) , Marathon Oil Corp.,  Nexen
Inc. (NXY) ,  Enterprise Products Partners LP (EPD)  and  Hess Corp. (HES)  have all
evacuated some personnel from Gulf platforms.  Shell Evacuates  Royal Dutch Shell Plc moved 360 people yesterday and shut
production at the Auger and Enchilada/Salsa platforms. BP,
ConocoPhillips and Marathon completed shut-ins over the weekend.  The storm will never get strong enough to pose a physical
threat to most offshore oil and gas platforms in the Gulf, said
Jim Rouiller, a senior energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc.  “I don’t anticipate any real damage at all; those rigs,
especially the modern ones, are built to handle a good-sized
hurricane,” Rouiller said from Berwyn,  Pennsylvania .  The storm track guidance remains “all over the place with
some models taking Debby west and north of its current position
and others moving east or northeast and ultimately into the
Atlantic,” the NHC said today in a discussion note.  AccuWeather Inc. Senior Meteorologist Dan Pydynowski
concurred with Rouiller on Debby’s strength. “We have it
staying as a tropical storm,” said Pydynowski from  State
College , Pennsylvania.  One Death  A tornado spawned by the storm was blamed for the death of
a man at an Alabama beach, the  Associated Press  reported.
Isolated tornadoes are possible today across the eastern Florida
Panhandle and western and central portions of the Florida
peninsula, the NHC said. It warned of the threat of flash floods
across northern Florida and southern Alabama.  Debby’s winds extend up to 200 miles, mainly north and east
of the center, so they will sweep the coast as it nears land,
the NHC said. Accuweather is calling for landfall in Florida as
early as tomorrow.  Coastal Florida in any case runs the risk of flooding as it
gets soaked with heavy rains for the next several days.  “Florida is low-lying and won’t drain well,” Pydynowski
said. “Tampa has already had two inches of rain over the last
day and that is just going to keep coming.”  Debby will produce 5 to 10 inches (13 to 25 centimeters) of
rain over eastern parts of the Florida Panhandle and northern
Florida with isolated areas getting 15 inches, the NHC advisory
said. The combination of a  storm surge  and the tide will cause
dry areas near the coast to be flooded by rising waters, it
said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Matthew Brown  in London at 
 mbrown42@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets in New York at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net . 