-- Rupee Pares Gain After India Raises Foreign-Debt Limit
-- B y   A n o o p   A g r a w a l
-- 2012-06-25T11:38:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/rupee-rises-most-since-january-on-government-steps-mumbai-mover.html
India ’s rupee pared gains after the
government announced measures, such as increasing the debt
ownership limit for foreigners, to support the currency.  The government raised the ceiling on the amount of rupee-
denominated  government bonds  overseas investors can hold by $5
billion to $20 billion, the central bank said in an e-mailed
statement today. The combined limit on sovereign and corporate
debt was last increased to $60 billion from $50 billion in
November. The rupee, which touched a record low of 57.3275 per
dollar on June 22, has fallen 6.8 percent this year, the worst
performer among the 10 most-traded currencies in  Asia .  “Policy makers have put their weight behind the rupee,”
said Naveen Raghuvanshi, a currency trader at  Development Credit
Bank Ltd. (DEVB)  in Mumbai. “Although the measures have fallen short
of what the broader expectations were.”  The rupee advanced 0.2 percent to 57.0150 per dollar at the
5 p.m. close in Mumbai after trading as much as 1.3 percent
stronger prior to the announcement, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The currency may climb to 56.30 this week,
Raghuvanshi forecast.  The  Reserve Bank  of India also announced in its statement a
reduction in the lock-in period for overseas investors in
infrastructure bonds to one year from three years. Indian
manufacturing and infrastructure companies that have foreign-
exchange earnings will also be allowed to borrow from abroad to
repay some local-currency loans, the RBI said in the statement.  Three-month  offshore  non-deliverable forwards traded at
58.21 a dollar, compared with 58.34 on June 22. Forwards are
agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and date. Non-
deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anoop Agrawal in Mumbai at 
 aagrawal8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  