-- Sales of New Homes Probably Rose in U.S. as Mortgage Rates Fell
-- B y   L o r r a i n e   W o e l l e r t
-- 2012-06-25T04:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/sales-of-new-homes-probably-rose-in-u-s-as-mortgage-rates-fell.html
Demand for new U.S. homes probably
rose in May for the second month as  mortgage rates  dropped,
bolstering the residential real-estate market while other parts
of the economy cool, economists said before a report today.  Sales climbed to a 346,000 annual rate, up 0.9 percent from
a 343,000 pace in April, according to the median  forecast  of 56
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Data last week showed
builders broke ground on more single-family houses last month
and industry confidence climbed in June to a five-year high.  Falling borrowing costs and more affordable properties may
keep luring buyers, even as a cooling job market and limited
access to credit restrain the recovery. In a bid to reduce
unemployment, sustain housing and prevent a global slowdown from
stalling the expansion, the  Federal Reserve  last week extended a
program to keep long-term  interest rates  low.  “While fears of an economic slowdown have mounted in
recent weeks, the U.S. housing market has shown signs of an
accelerated rebound,”  Joseph Carson , director of global
economic research at AllianceBernstein LP in  New York , said in a
June 22 note to clients. “Positive trends in housing starts and
prices indicate that a budding recovery is under way, which may
get further support from new monetary stimulus by the Fed.”  Bloomberg survey estimates for new-home sales, which are
counted when contracts are signed, ranged from 327,000 to
360,000. The Commerce Department’s report is due at 10 a.m. in
Washington.  Housing Starts  In response to improving demand, builders  broke ground  on
516,000 single-family houses last month at an annual pace, up
3.2 percent from April and the most this year, the Commerce
Department reported last week.  The Washington-based National Association of Home
Builders/Wells Fargo  sentiment index  rose by 1 point this month
to 29, the highest since May 2007, another report last week
showed.  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  and  Lennox International Inc. (LII) ,
makers of heating and air conditioning units, are among
companies benefitting from developers’ positive outlook. Lennox,
based in Richardson,  Texas , had a 40 percent increase in sales
to builders in the first quarter.  United Technologies , in
Hartford,  Connecticut , forecasts about 700,000 housing starts
this year, Chief Financial Officer Gregory Hayes said.  “The expectation is we’re not going to see a huge recovery
in the U.S. residential marketplace, but we should see a steady
recovery,” Hayes said at a June 14 conference. “Residential is
coming back, but it’s very, very slow.”  Shares Climb  The stabilization in housing has boosted builder shares
this year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite  Homebuilder
Index (S15HOME)  has climbed 33 percent so far this year, compared with a
6.2 percent gain for the broader  S&P 500 .  Residential construction hasn’t contributed to economic
growth over the course of an entire year since 2005, when it
accounted for 0.4 percentage point of the 3.1 percent increase
in gross domestic product. From 2006 through 2009, the
homebuilding slump subtracted 0.8 percentage point from growth
on average. The declines diminished over the past two years.  Newly constructed houses made up 6.7 percent of the
residential market last year, down from a high of 15 percent
during the boom of the past decade.  Sales of existing homes  declined  in May as fewer distressed
properties reached the market, the National Association of
Realtors reported last week. The decline in transactions
involving foreclosures and short sales, where a lender agrees to
accept less than the balance of the mortgage, helped push the
median price of a previously owned house up 7.9 percent from the
same time last year, the biggest 12-month gain since February
2006.  Mortgage Rates  Less competition from existing houses and even lower
mortgage rates may keep spurring the market. The  average rate  on
a 30-year fixed loan dropped to 3.66 percent last week, the
lowest in data going back to 1972, according to  Freddie Mac .  The central bank last week aimed to keep borrowing costs
low. Policy makers announced they will expand the Operation
Twist program to extend the maturities of assets on its balance
sheet. They said they stood ready to take further action to put
unemployed Americans back to work. Fed officials also lowered
their outlook for growth and employment.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorraine Woellert in  Washington  at 
 lwoellert@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  