-- Samsung Forecasts Record Mobile Earnings on Galaxy S III
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-06-25T06:32:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/samsung-expects-higher-mobile-profit-on-galaxy-s-iii-shin-says.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
largest handset maker, said the Galaxy S III will help mobile
earnings surpass the first-quarter record, after users responded
more positively to the latest smartphone model.  “We’re getting far better feedback on the model overseas
than what we experienced with the Galaxy S II,” J.K. Shin, head
of the Suwon, South Korea-based company’s mobile-phone business,
said at a briefing in Seoul today. He didn’t elaborate or
provide a specific second-quarter forecast for the mobile unit,
which posted record first-quarter profit of 4.3 trillion won
($3.7 billion).  The Galaxy S III, a rival to  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, will
probably sell faster than its predecessors and pass 10 million
units by July, according to Shin. The model goes on sale today
in  South Korea  after being introduced in the U.S. June 21, and
is the latest in the Galaxy series that helped Samsung regain
leadership in the $219 billion smartphone market from Apple in
the first quarter.  Samsung dropped 4.2 percent to 1,132,000 won at the close
of Seoul trading, while  Korea ’s benchmark Kospi index fell 1.2
percent. Taurus Investment & Securities Co. cut its forecast for
the company’s second-quarter operating profit, citing weaker-
than-expected demand for products including televisions.  The electronics maker sold more than 50 million units of
the previous two Galaxy S models globally in the past two years.  The company sold  93.5 million  handsets in the first
quarter, 36 percent more than a year earlier,  Strategy Analytics 
said April 27. Nokia shipped 82.7 million, down 24 percent, and
Apple sold 35.1 million units, an 89 percent gain from 2011.  Samsung sold 44.5 million smartphones in the three months
ended in March, according to the researcher’s data.  Separately, the company is investigating a complaint from a
Galaxy S III owner that the phone overheated and burned its
lower end, Shin said. An initial probe indicated that the damage
wasn’t caused by a battery explosion, he said.  The scorched handset was mounted in a moving car when a
white flame, sparks and a bang came out of it, the phone’s owner
in Ireland said in a June 20 posting on an online message board.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in  Seoul  at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  