-- Samsung Falls Amid Quarterly Profit Concern: Seoul Mover
-- B y   S a e r o m i   S h i n   a n d   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-06-25T06:27:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/samsung-falls-amid-quarterly-profit-concern-seoul-mover.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) , the world’s
biggest maker of computer memory chips and flat screens, fell to
a four-month low in  Seoul  trading amid speculation second-
quarter earnings may miss some  analysts’ estimates .  The  stock , which makes up  16 percent  of the benchmark Kospi
index making it the biggest in terms of weighting, slumped 4.2
percent to 1.132 million won at the close of trading on the
Korea Exchange, the lowest since Feb. 14. The Kospi retreated
1.2 percent.  Taurus Investment & Securities Co. today reduced its
estimate for the company’s second-quarter operating profit to
6.9 trillion won ($6 billion) from 7.2 trillion won previously,
citing weaker-than-expected demand for products such as
 televisions . JPMorgan Chase & Co. last week also said the
quarterly earnings may fall short of consensus estimates.  “Some bets that earnings may be below estimates in the
second quarter, and speculation that growth of smartphone market
may slow a bit in the second half, which I don’t think is the
case, are driving the stock lower,” Lee Sun Tae, an analyst at
NH Investment & Securities Co. in Seoul who  recommends  buying
the shares, said by phone. “The decline is overdone.”  Samsung Electronics, which last week said it is
investigating a complaint that a new Galaxy S III smartphone
overheated, today forecast global sales of the device to exceed
10 million units in July, faster than previous models.  The  stock  has dropped 11 percent this quarter, compared
with a 9.4 percent loss in the  Kospi. (KOSPI)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net 
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net 
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  