-- Saudi Aramco Said to From Venture Firm on Drilling Tech
-- B y   W a e l   M a h d i
-- 2012-06-25T15:03:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/saudi-aramco-said-to-from-venture-firm-on-drilling-tech.html
Saudi Arabian Oil Co., the world’s
largest crude exporter, is forming a venture capital company to
invest in international startups developing new drilling
technologies, a person with knowledge of the plan said.  Saudi Aramco , as the state-owned producer is known, wants
to adopt the latest techniques and expertise for boosting output
at older  oil fields  and fracturing rocks in underground
reservoirs to speed the extraction of crude, the person said,
declining to be identified because the project is confidential.
The  investment company  will start operating soon, the person
said, without specifying a date or indicating how much money it
would have to invest.  Aramco’s media relations office in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia,
declined to comment on the matter today in an e-mailed response
to questions from Bloomberg.  The acquisition of new drilling and production technologies
is increasingly important for Aramco as the company seeks to
boost recovery from existing fields and exploit hard-to-reach
unconventional oil and natural-gas resources, Senior Vice
President for Upstream Operations Amin Nasser said at a
conference in the eastern city of Khobar on April 8. Aramco
plans to open five research centers in  North America ,  Europe  and
China as part of its strategy of becoming a technology producer
and innovator, Nasser said at the time.  Plaschem Park  The new company, seeking to invest in fledgling energy
firms outside the kingdom, will be based in the city of Dhahran,
where Aramco also has its headquarters, and operate branches in
Houston,  Boston  and Aberdeen, Scotland. As well as drilling
technology, it will focus on companies developing solar power
and other renewable energy sources, said the person with
knowledge of the plan.  Aramco started a venture capital firm for domestic
investments in December, targeting small and medium-sized Saudi
businesses. This Saudi Aramco Entrepreneurship Center Co., known
as Wa’ed, has investment capital of 750 million Saudi riyals
($200 million), according to Aramco’s website.  Wa’ed and Sadara Chemical Co., a joint venture between
Aramco and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW) , agreed to support and invest in
facilities at the Plaschem Park chemicals and plastics complex
in the city of Jubail, Aramco said today in an e-mailed
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Wael Mahdi in Manama, Bahrain at 
 wmahdi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  