-- Scots Prosecutors Order Probe Into 2011 Purchase of Rangers
-- B y   P e t e r   W o o d i f i e l d
-- 2012-06-25T15:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/scots-prosecutors-order-probe-into-2011-purchase-of-rangers-1-.html
Scottish prosecutors ordered a
criminal investigation into the acquisition of Rangers Football
Club Plc by  Craig Whyte  in May 2011 and the subsequent running
of the club.  The 54-time Scottish soccer champion went into liquidation
earlier this month after the U.K. tax authorities rejected a
proposal to repay creditors only a fraction of the club’s debts
as part of a plan to exit administration.  The probe will be carried out by Strathclyde Police in
Glasgow, the Crown Office said in an e-mailed statement today.  Whyte, who was disqualified in 2000 from being a company
director for seven years, bought an 85% stake in the club from
 David Murray  for one pound ($1.55) in return for assuming debts
of 18 million pounds owed to HBOS, a unit of Lloyds Banking
Group Plc.  Whyte put the club into administration on Feb. 14 in
response to efforts by HM Revenue and Customs to recover 14.4
million pounds of unpaid taxes, including taxes deducted from
players’ wages and not passed on. The tax authority is also
awaiting judgement in a dispute relating to offshore employee
benefit trusts.  Unpaid Taxes  The club may owe more than 93 million pounds in unpaid
taxes and a further 41 million pounds to other creditors, former
administrators Duff & Phelps estimated on April 5.  Whyte used money received from Ticketus to repay HBOS. In
total, Ticketus advanced almost 30 million pounds to the club in
2011 in return for the ticket agency receiving the revenue from
season ticket sales for four years, the administrators said.
Whyte, who provided personal guarantees for the loans, is now
being sued by Ticketus for 27 million pounds.  As part of its reasons for rejecting a Creditors Voluntary
Arrangement to allow Rangers to exit administration, HMRC said
the club could make a fresh start by going into liquidation.  “A liquidation provides the best opportunity to protect
taxpayers, by allowing the potential investigation and pursuit
of possible claims against those responsible for the company’s
financial affairs in recent years,” HMRC said in a  statement  on
its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Woodifield in Edinburgh at 
 pwoodifield@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rodney Jefferson at 
 r.jefferson@bloomberg.net . 