-- Serbia May Keep Zelezara Open Amid Losses, Minister Says
-- B y   M i s h a   S a v i c   a n d   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-06-25T14:04:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/serbia-to-halt-production-at-smederevo-steelworks-novosti-says.html
Serbia  is struggling to avoid a
shutdown of unprofitable  Zelezara Smederevo d.o.o. , its sole
steel plant, even as the company continues to generate losses,
the country’s economy minister said.  The government “won’t let the production come to a
standstill,” Economy Minister Nebojsa Ciric told reporters in
Belgrade today. He added that the Smederevo-based plant is still
“making a loss month after month.”  A complete closure would seriously jeopardize hundreds of
small- and medium-sized companies that rely on the products from
Zelezara, once the country’s top exporter, Ciric said. The
plant, which makes hot- and cold-rolled steel products, has
an annual production capacity for 2.2 million tons, according to
the company’s website.  The minister’s comments came in response to media reports
that the government plans to switch off the last of the two
furnaces at Zelezara on July 5. Former owner  U.S. Steel Corp. (X) 
halted one of the two furnaces last year before selling the
plant back to Serbia in January for a token $1.  The government, which has twice extended the deadline in a
tender for the sale of Zelezara, giving potential investors
until Sept. 10 to make an offer, is looking for a partner who
would acquire a stake, prop up sales and provide raw materials
at lower costs, Ciric said.  Operating Loss  Zelezara’s operating loss widened to 12.53 billion dinars
($136.6 million) in 2011, from 11.04 billion dinars in 2010. Its
accumulated losses exceeded its capital by 34.8 billion dinars,
according to financial reports submitted to the Serbian Business
Registers Agency.  Three Serbian trade unions will meet with Zelezara’s
workers on June 26 to work out a set of measures the government
should take to overcome the crisis and continue production, the
Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions, or ASNS, said
in an e-mail today. Ciric has also been invited to meet the
trade unions, ASNS Vice President Dragan Milovanovic said.  Serbia needs to rein in its  budget deficit , which expanded
80 percent over the first five months to 89.2 billion dinars, or
7.3 percent of gross domestic product. Public debt has reached
51.1 percent of GDP, above the agreed limit of 45 percent, while
the country awaits a new government following inconclusive May 6
elections.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Misha Savic in Belgrade at 
 msavic2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  