-- Shire Falls Most Since 2003 on Actavis’s Adderall Generic
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-06-25T15:45:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/shire-falls-most-since-2008-on-actavis-s-adderall-generic.html
Shire Plc (SHP)  fell the most in more than
nine years after U.S. drug regulators unexpectedly approved a
copycat version of its second-biggest selling drug.  Shire sank 11 percent to 1,743 pence at the close of
trading in  London , the biggest intraday drop since January 2003.
The stock was the biggest loser on the  FTSE 350 Index. (NMX)   The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  approved a generic
version of Shire’s hyperactivity medicine Adderall XR made by
Actavis Group Hf, Shire said in a statement June 23. Analysts
led by Brian Bourdot at Barclays Plc cut their 2013 profit
forecast for the Dublin-based company by 14 percent.  “We had expected Adderall XR’s contribution to decline
over time, but generic entry comes two years earlier than we had
anticipated,” Bourdot and colleagues wrote in a note to
clients. They rate the stock equal weight.  Shire expects to “remain competitive” with its branded
version of the medicine as well as generics it approved through
partners Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. and Impax
Laboratories Inc., and said in the statement it anticipates
“good full-year 2012 earnings growth.” The company said in
April that  gross margins  would be “marginally lower” this
year, reflecting costs from its $750 million acquisition of
Advanced BioHealing Inc.  While Adderall XR’s patent expired in 2009, the complexity
of its formulation and a petition by Shire demanding more
rigorous testing of generics led to delays in the FDA approving
the copycats, Luisa Hector, an analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG
in London, wrote in a note today.  The drug earned Shire $533 million last year, or 13 percent
of sales, making it the company’s  second-biggest  seller behind
Vyvanse, the attention-deficit pill Shire introduced to replace
revenue of Adderall XR following its patent expiry. Vyvanse’s
patent is valid until 2023.  Watson Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  agreed in April to buy Actavis
for 4.25 billion euros ($5.3 billion).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  