-- Skyonic Gets ConocoPhillips, BP Backing for Carbon-Capture Plant
-- B y   A n d r e w   H e r n d o n
-- 2012-06-25T20:39:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/skyonic-gets-conocophillips-bp-backing-for-carbon-capture-plant.html
Skyonic Corp. , a closely held
developer of carbon-capture technology, received $9 million from
 ConocoPhillips (COP) ,  BP Plc (BP/)  and other new investors to fund its first
 commercial facility  at a Texas cement plant.  Northwater Capital Management Inc. led the Series C
financing, which also included PVS Chemicals Inc. and existing
investor Carl Berg, Skyonic Chief Executive Officer Joe Jones
said by telephone.  The funding will support construction of Skyonic’s $125
million system that’s expected to capture 75,000 metric tons of
carbon dioxide emissions a year from Capitol Aggregates Inc.’s
cement plant in  San Antonio , the company said in an e-mailed
statement. The system also will remove acid and heavy metals
from the plant’s flue gases.  The project also is funded by $28 million in grants from
the U.S. Department of Energy, and investors have committed
additional equity that’s contingent on about $75 million in
loans that Skyonic is seeking, Jones said. Construction is
expected to start in September and the facility will begin
production in 2014.  Skyonic, based in Austin,  Texas , is developing systems that
capture carbon dioxide by mineralizing the gas into sodium
bicarbonate, or baking soda, which primarily will be sold as an
antacid ingredient for cattle feed, Jones said. Hydrochloric
acid and bleach, by-products of the process, will be sold to PVS
Chemicals.  Gas Plants  The company tested its technology at three Texas coal
plants, and Jones said the systems may also cut emissions from
natural-gas plants.  Unlike other carbon-capture systems that require
“extremely concentrated CO2,” Skyonic’s technology is
effective when the percentage concentration of the gas is in the
“single digits” and has been tested as low as 3 percent, Jones
said. That “makes us a natural fit for the nat gas-centric
future that the world appears to be moving into.”  Other Skyonic backers include  Luminant , a unit of Energy
Future Holdings Corp., and David Zachry, chief executive officer
of Capitol Aggregates’ parent company Zachry Corp.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Herndon in  San Francisco  at 
 aherndon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  