-- SodaStream Plans to Enter U.S. Grocery, Drug Stores in 2014
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-06-26T15:12:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/sodastream-plans-to-enter-u-s-grocery-drug-stores-in-2014-1-.html
SodaStream International Ltd. (SODA)  plans
to bring its do-it-yourself soda machines to U.S. drugstores and
supermarkets in 2014 as the Israeli company looks to expand
sales and household usage in the world’s No. 1 beverage market.  “We will do it in 2014,” Chief Executive Officer Daniel Birnbaum said in a phone interview yesterday. “We will test a
bit next year but it’s too early. There is a temptation to do it
now but we have to make sure that when we enter retailers we
provide enough velocity to justify the shelf space.”  A move into grocery and drug stores had been anticipated by
analysts including William Blair’s Jon Andersen, yet the company
hadn’t provided a timetable. It follows SodaStream’s entry into
 Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  in May, where its devices sold out in some
of the 2,900 stores carrying them, according to a June 20 report
from analysts at Monness Crespi Hardt & Co.  SodaStream, of Airport City,  Israel , gathers 29 percent of
its revenue from the U.S., where consumers purchased $142
billion in non-alcoholic drinks in 2010, according to Beverage
Information Group. The U.S. has the second-highest per capita
consumption of carbonated beverages in the world, behind  Mexico ,
according to data trackers Euromonitor International.  SodaStream  fell  2.4 percent to $37.35 at 11:01 a.m. in  New
York . The shares have risen 14 percent so far this year.  Reusable Bottles  The products were available in more than 13,000 U.S.
locations in the second quarter, including outlets of Wal-Mart,
Target Corp., Staples Inc. and Bed Bath & Beyond Inc. as well as
department stores owned by J.C. Penney Co. and Macy’s Inc.
Moving into drug stores and supermarkets would boost sales,
particularly of the company’s rechargeable carbon-dioxide
canisters, and the added visibility in those outlets could
increase the adoption of its devices, Oppenheimer & Co. analyst
 Joseph Altobello  said in an e-mail.  SodaStream’s soda-making system, which employs reusable
bottles, CO2 cylinders, tap water and a range of 128 flavor
syrups, is sold in more than 40 countries. In some European
countries, like  Sweden , the devices are currently sold in food
and drug chains. The company gets 52 percent of its sales from
Europe.  Separately, Birnbaum said he would bring SodaStream to
 Greece  and  India  next year. In Greece, “we’re not intimidated
by the economy because we enable consumers to save money,” he
said in the interview. Greek economic sentiment worsened in May
as the country’s downturn extended into its fifth year. In
India, SodaStream is looking for a partner and might enter the
market through a joint venture, he said.  Increasing Capacity  To help meet the demands of new markets and sales channels,
SodaStream has invested about $50 million on a new 85,000
square-meter (900,000 square-foot) factory south of  Tel Aviv 
that will triple the company’s production capacity when it is
completed by 2014, Birnbaum said. In May, SodaStream raised its
forecast for full-year sales growth from 28 percent to 33
percent, or about $384 million.  Birnbaum, a New York native who joined SodaStream in 2007
after running the Israeli operations of  Nike Inc. (NKE) , also said
he’s in talks to embed SodaStream’s technology into
refrigerators, describing the negotiations with a partner he
declined to name as “far along but not imminent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  