-- Sony, Panasonic Agree to Collaborate on OLED Televisions
-- B y   M a r i k o   Y a s u
-- 2012-06-25T07:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/sony-panasonic-agree-to-collaborate-to-make-oled-televisions.html
Sony Corp. (6758)  and  Panasonic Corp. (6752) ,
 Japan ’s biggest makers of TVs, agreed to jointly develop sets
using OLED displays as they try to rebound from a combined 1.2
trillion yen ($15 billion) in losses last year.  The companies aim to establish mass-production technology
for organic light-emitting diode panels next year, they said in
a statement today. They didn’t set target dates for introducing
OLED sets.  The partnership is the first between the main TV operations
at the two companies, which are losing money as the strengthened
yen erodes overseas earnings and as competition from  South
Korea ’s  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  and  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) 
intensifies. The two Korean companies have said they’ll
introduce OLED models by Dec. 31.  “Sony and Panasonic wanted to do it separately, but
neither of them had a choice other than to cooperate as their TV
businesses recorded huge losses,” said Kazuharu Miura, a Tokyo-
based analyst at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. “They may be able
to speed up development by combining their technologies.”  OLED televisions are as thin as 4 millimeters (0.16 inches)
and produce sharper images than current liquid-crystal-display
models. Shipments of OLED TVs may grow to 2.1 million sets in
2015 from 34,000 in 2012, according to Englewood, Colorado-based
 IHS Inc. (IHS) ’s iSuppli.  Samsung, LG  Using organically glowing materials, OLED TVs don’t require
separate backlights and can be half the thickness of Apple’s
iPad 2, which measures 8.8 millimeters. The technology, already
used in mobile devices including Sony’s PlayStation Vita players
and Samsung’s Galaxy smartphones, uses less power than LCDs and
has a higher contrast rate, creating more vivid images.  Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung and Seoul-based LG showed
55-inch (140-centimeter) OLED sets at the  Consumer Electronics
Show  in  Las Vegas  in January.  Sony, which introduced the first OLED TV with an 11-inch
screen in 2007, is studying the demand for larger sets and the
investment that would be needed to make them, Sony President
Kazuo Hirai said in a February interview. OLED sets won’t
represent the bulk of TV sales “next year, the year after or
even the year after that,” Hirai said before becoming president
in April.  Panasonic President Fumio Ohtsubo said in January that
Panasonic wants to introduce OLED sets “not long after”
Samsung and LG.  TV Shipments  Sony posted a record 457 billion-yen net loss for the year
ended March 31 as its TV business was unprofitable for an eighth
straight year. The unit will probably lose about 80 billion yen
this fiscal year as Sony predicted sales will decline 11 percent
to 17.5 million sets, the company said in May. Hirai plans to
make the TV unit profitable in the year ending March 2014.  Panasonic will probably stop losing money from TVs in the
quarter starting Jan. 1, Chief Financial Officer Makoto Uenoyama
said in May. The Osaka-based company reported a record 772
billion-yen net loss last fiscal year.  Global TV shipments fell in 2011 for the first time in six
years because of excessive inventory in the U.S. and  Europe  and
the end of Japanese government subsidies for purchases,
according to DisplaySearch, part of NPD Group. Shipments fell
0.3 percent to 247.7 million units, according to the researcher.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mariko Yasu in Tokyo at 
 myasu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  