-- South Africa’s ANC Targets Mining Taxes in Policy Meeting
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-06-26T15:59:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/south-africa-s-anc-targets-mining-taxes-in-policy-meeting.html
South African President  Jacob Zuma 
called for a “dramatic” policy shift to create jobs and ensure
wealth is spread more evenly in a nation where white males still
dominate the economy 18 years after the end of apartheid.  “There is widespread consensus that we have been unable to
reach the goals of a truly inclusive, non-racial, non-sexist
society,” Zuma, 70, said in his opening speech to a gathering
of ruling  African National Congress  officials near Johannesburg
today. “The time has come to do something more drastic to
accelerate change.”  The ANC will spend four days debating proposals ranging
from a 50 percent mining windfall tax to wage subsidies for
young people. A final decision on new policies will be taken at
the 100-year-old party’s national conference in December, when a
new leadership will also be elected.  Zuma, the ANC’s former head of intelligence, is seeking a
second five-year term at a time when his labor union allies and
jobless young people are demanding action to combat poverty and
unemployment in Africa’s largest economy. Any attempt to extract
more revenue from mining companies such as  Impala Platinum
Holdings Ltd. (IMP)  and  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  risks undermining an industry
battered by rising wage costs, power shortages and a global
economic slowdown.  “You’re adding more to the camel and pretty soon you’ll
break the camel’s back,” Patrick Mathidi, a  fund manager  at
Momentum Asset Management in Johannesburg, said in a telephone
interview. “We’re unlikely to get any good news out of the
policy conference.”  Profit Tax  In 2010, the ANC’s Youth League persuaded the party to
investigate the viability of nationalizing mines to help
distribute more wealth to the black majority. While an ANC-
appointed panel ruled out nationalization as an economic
“disaster,” it recommended a 50 percent tax on profits of
mining companies that earn returns of more than 15 percent.  “We must go deeper than to nationalize or not
nationalize,” Zuma told delegates. The party “must deliberate
on how the state can obtain an equitable share from the  mineral
resources  and how communities can benefit more from these
natural resources.”  Gold, coal and other mining products accounted for 38
percent of export earnings last year, according to government
data. Output contracted 16.8 percent in the first quarter
because of mine closures and strikes. The  FTSE/JSE Africa Mining
Index (JMNNG)  of 21 stocks has dropped 7.6 percent this year, compared
with a 5.8 percent gain in the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index. (JALSH) 
The rand strengthened 0.4 percent to 8.4493 against the dollar
by 5:55 p.m. in Johannesburg, paring the decline this year to
4.3 percent.  Security of Supply  Perth-based  Aquarius Platinum Ltd. (AQP) , the world’s fourth-
largest producer of the metal, shut mines in  South Africa  this
month because of strikes and falling platinum prices. In
February, Johannesburg-based  Anglo American Platinum Ltd. (AMS)  put a
freeze on employment and cut its 2012 output target.  Other recommendations in the ANC’s draft policy documents
include an export levy on coal and iron ore to ensure “security
of supply” as the government tries to boost power generation
and steel production. The ruling party is also considering
forcing pension funds and insurers to buy the bonds of state-
owned companies.  “There is clearly going to be a lot of rhetoric around the
conference and people are going to position themselves around
populist agendas,”  Mike Davies , southern Africa analyst at
risk-advisory company Maplecroft, said in a June 21 interview
from London. “We see higher levels of state involvement in the
 mining industry .”  White Males  While the party that swept  Nelson Mandela  to power in the
first all-race elections in 1994 commands the support of almost
two-thirds of the electorate, it has struggled to racially
desegregate the economy. White  South Africans  earn on average
about eight times more than black citizens, who make up 79
percent of the population of 51 million, according to the South
African Institute of Race Relations.  Under the negotiated settlement reached in 1994 “we had to
make certain compromises in the national interest,” Zuma said.
“We had to be cautious about restructuring the economy in order
to maintain economic stability and confidence at the time. Thus
economic power relations of the apartheid era have remained
intact.”  While the country’s laws currently hamper the government
from redistributing land, and vast tracts of farmland remained
unused, any efforts to address the situation will be done within
the confines of the Constitution, the president told reporters.  The government forecasts the  economy  will expand 2.7
percent this year, the slowest pace since the 2009 recession, as
a debt crisis in Europe worsens, curbing demand from a region
that buys about a third of South Africa’s manufactured exports.
That’s less than half the 7 percent expansion the government
says it needs to meet a pledge to cut the  jobless rate  to 14
percent by 2014 from 25.2 percent currently.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  