-- Spain Formally Seeks Aid as Debt-Seniority Debate Drags On
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-06-25T13:34:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/spain-makes-formal-rescue-request-as-talks-on-details-continue.html
Spain  formally requested a bailout
for its banks as discussions continued as to whether the loan of
as much as 100 billion euros ($125 billion) would take
precedence over other debts in the event of default.  Doubts over seniority will be resolved within weeks, Deputy
Economy Minister Fernando Jimenez Latorre said today, after
European officials played down the importance of the issue last
week. Euro-area finance ministers still have to decide whether
the aid will come from  Europe ’s temporary rescue fund or its
successor, which gives its creditors preferred status, the
Economy Ministry in Madrid said in an e-mailed statement.  “The longer the maturity and the grace period, and the
lower the  interest rate , the lower the risk of it being
considered senior,” Jimenez Latorre said in Santander, Spain.
The issue will be resolved “satisfactorily,” he said.  Spain agreed on June 9 to the bailout for lenders still
reeling from a real-estate collapse in its fifth year. While
negotiating the terms of the rescue, Spain is also pushing for
greater integration in Europe’s banking industry as it seeks to
stem contagion between lenders and the state.  Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said the so-called banking
union should include a fund to restructure and liquidate banks.
Spain also backs the creation of a common regulator and rules,
as well as a joint deposit-guarantee fund, he told a conference
in Madrid.  Banking Union  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  also supported
the idea of a banking union on June 5, while he stopped short of
endorsing the liquidation fund proposed by Rajoy. He sees a
banking union as consisting of a central banking oversight body,
deposit guarantees and “the question of whether, and if yes,
how we can develop national bank restructuring facilities into
more of a European network.”  Spanish banks may need as much as 62 billion euros to
withstand a worst-case economic scenario, studies by two
consulting firms hired by the government showed last week. The
 International Monetary Fund  estimated on June 8 the shortfall
was at least 37 billion euros.  Those studies should be taken as a “starting point” as
officials prepare the memorandum of understanding for the bank
bailout, Economy Minister Luis de Guindos said in the letter
sent today in which he formally requested the loan. That
agreement will be completed before July 9, when euro-region
finance ministers next meet.  Loan Conditions  Conditions attached to the loan will apply to “banks being
recapitalized and to the Spanish financial sector as a whole,
including its supervision and regulatory requirements,”
European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  said today. The EU’s executive arm “likes” the idea of
setting up a bad bank in Spain, Jimenez Latorre said on June 21,
without giving details.  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the group of euro-region
finance ministers, said he had received the letter and expected
to give a mandate to the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the European Banking Authority to negotiate the
conditions.  Juncker was among the European officials last week who
played down the significance of seniority in the case of the
Spanish bailout, saying “it’s not as important a question as it
may seem.” Klaus Regling, head of the European Financial
Stability Facility, also said the size of the loan, equivalent
to 10 percent of Spain’s economy and a “minor part of the total
public debt,” means “the issue is not quite as important as
one gets the idea reading about it every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  