-- Spurs’ Parker May Miss Olympics After Hurting Eye in Club Fight
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-06-25T15:54:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/spurs-parker-may-miss-olympics-after-hurting-eye-in-club-fight.html
Tony Parker  may miss the Olympics in
 London  after almost losing his left eye in a night club brawl,
the National Basketball Association guard said on his website.  Parker, a point guard for the  San Antonio Spurs  and the
French national team, was injured this month in New York City
during a fight involving the entourages of hip-hop artists Drake
and  Chris Brown . Parker, at the club independently, said a shard
of glass penetrated his left eye and that he had an operation
yesterday to remove the fragment.  He said he is awaiting clearance from doctors and the Spurs
to resume basketball activities.  “Today I can say it -- I almost lost an eye,” Parker
said.  Parker, 30, who played professionally in  France  before
being drafted by the Spurs, didn’t join the rest of the French
team on June 20 in Pau, but will travel with it until he
returns to the U.S. in July. He said he will see a specialist in
New York on July 5.  “The Spurs are very concerned,” Parker said. “Depending
on the results, everything is possible, including my withdrawal
from the games. The decision doesn’t belong to me. It’s in the
hands of the doctor and the Spurs.”  France is set to compete at the Olympics in Group A, along
with Tunisia,  Argentina , the U.S. and two qualifiers. Play
begins on July 29.  Parker also announced that he had filed a complaint against
the night club, W.i.P., but that he couldn’t comment on the case
because it was pending.  “That’s life, I was in the wrong place at the wrong
time,” Parker said. “I didn’t have any luck, but in my
misfortune, I’m OK. It could have been worse. The rest of my
career isn’t threatened. I only have to wait for the lesion to
heal.”  A four-time All-Star and three-time NBA champion, Parker
has averaged 16.8 points and 5.9 assists per game in his 11-year
career, spent entirely with the Spurs.  The Spurs were 50-16 this season, the best record in the
Western Conference. The team won its first 10 playoff games
before falling to the Oklahoma City Thunder in the conference
finals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in  New York  at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  