-- States Lacking Income Tax Get No Boost in Growth: BGOV Barometer
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a
-- 2012-06-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/states-lacking-income-tax-get-no-boost-in-growth-bgov-barometer.html
Governors seeking to expand their
economies by eliminating income taxes find little support for
the idea in the record of U.S. states that lack such a levy.  The BGOV Barometer shows the nine states with the highest
personal income taxes on residents outperformed or kept pace on
average with the nine that don’t tax their residents’ incomes,
according to a study of economic output, unemployment and
household income by the nonpartisan Institute on Taxation and
 Economic Policy .  The findings show cutting state income taxes to stimulate
growth relies on “flawed analysis” based on the theories of
economist  Arthur Laffer , said Carl Davis, a senior analyst at
ITEP in Washington and author of the report. Laffer’s work was
cited by Republican Governors  Sam Brownback  of Kansas and Mary Fallin of Oklahoma as a reason to cut income taxes as a way to
stimulate job growth and attract business.  “Being low-tax doesn’t generate economic competitiveness
or long-term economic viability,” said Ralph Martire,  executive
director  at the nonpartisan Center for Tax and Budget
Accountability in Chicago. “There are other factors that are
far more important. The state tax burden overall is marginal
compared to federal tax burden.”  Nine states have no personal income-tax: Alaska, Florida,
Nevada,  New Hampshire ,  South Dakota , Tennessee, Texas,
Washington and Wyoming. The nine states defined as “high rate”
by ITEP were California, Hawaii, Maine, Maryland,  New Jersey ,
New York, Ohio, Oregon and  Vermont .  Economic Output  Per-capita economic output increased an average 10.1
percent in the nine “high-rate” states, led by Oregon, which
grew 26 percent from 2001 to 2010. New York, Maryland, Vermont,
Hawaii and California also grew faster than the 8.1 percent
average for the 50 states.  Among states with no income tax, New Hampshire, Washington,
Texas, Florida, Tennessee and Nevada had growth rates below the
50-state average, with Nevada’s economy shrinking 2.7 percent
during the period. The average growth rate for the nine no-tax
states was 8.7 percent. Three no-tax states grew faster than the
national average, led by South Dakota and Wyoming at 22 percent.  Median  household income  declined an average 0.7 percent
among the nine “high-rate” states, compared with a 3.5 percent
drop in the nine states without such a levy. The study found no
difference in the average  unemployment rate  between the two
groups of states. The time period of the report includes the 18-
month recession that ended in June 2009.  Maintaining Spending  “States that have higher overall taxes have better
capacity to weather economic downturns,” Martire said. “Then
they can maintain their spending on the salary of workers, who
then go out and spend their paychecks on the local economy.”  Kansas passed legislation this year that would cut taxes by
more than $760 million a year, though the poorest 20 percent of
Kansans, with an average income of $11,000, will have taxes
increased, according to a separate ITEP report.  The study doesn’t prove that high income taxes will
stimulate growth, ITEP’s Davis said. Rather, it shows “there’s
no evidence” that cutting income taxes will boost growth.  “Those who don’t believe in Santa Claus or the Easter
Bunny anymore, and actually look at facts and data, recognize
that since supply-side economics has been implemented in
America, the complete opposite of what supply siders had
promised has occurred,” Martire said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  