-- Stress Blocks Gene That Guards Brain Against Depression
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-06-25T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/stress-blocks-gene-that-guards-brain-against-depression.html
Chronic stress appears to block a
gene that guards against brain atrophy associated with
depression, according to a study in rats that may help guide new
treatments for mood disorders.  The gene, called neuritin, appears to be responsible for
keeping healthy neuron connections in certain parts of the
brain, according to the study published in the  Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences . Rats whose genes were
suppressed were more anxious and depressed than those whose
genes weren’t, an experiment found. Further, activating the gene
led to an antidepressant response.  The research adds evidence to the idea that depression may
be caused by  atrophy in the hippocampus,  the part of the brain
responsible for mood and memory. Scientists have  previously
shown  that some antidepressants increase the growth of new
connections, called synapses, between neurons.  “This is based on findings that basically stress and
depression have been shown to cause atrophy,” said  Ronald
Duman,  a study author and professor of psychiatry at  Yale
University  in  New Haven ,  Connecticut , in a telephone interview.
“There’s good evidence there’s a loss of synaptic connections
in depressed rodents and depressed patients. If you don’t have
the appropriate number of connections in synapses, your brain
isn’t going to function properly.”  Researchers found that chronically stressed rats, those who
had been deprived of food, forced to swim in cold water, exposed
to frightening odors and other stressors, had lower levels of
neuritin expression and exhibited depressed behavior. The
researchers then dosed the stressed rats with neuritin-boosting
therapy, which improved the animals’ ability to swim longer
without giving up in a test.  Neuritin Tests  In another experiment reported in the study, rats were
dosed with gene therapy to boost neuritin’s availability in the
brain. That led to new neuron growth. Researchers also used gene
therapy to suppress neuritin. These animals were less likely to
eat right away and were more likely to show despairing behaviors
when they were subjected to stress.  An estimated 9 percent of American adults are  depressed ,
according to the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention. Discovering new drugs to treat people who are
depressed may decrease disability and suicide rates, according
to background information in the paper.  It’s not clear exactly how current antidepressants
including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs,
like  Eli Lilly & Co. (LLY) ’s Prozac, work in the brain. SSRIs are
designed to block the reabsorption of the brain chemical
serotonin. Still,  previous work  attempting to show serotonin is
solely responsible for depression has been unsuccessful. The
alternative theory about the role of neurogenesis developed in
response.  Causal Link  Today’s study shows a causal link between neuritin and
depression, at least in rats, Duman said. Human studies will be
more complicated, in part because there isn’t a known drug that
acts directly on neuritin in humans.  The neuritin gene is part of a series of triggers that may
lead to depression, Duman said. Depression and stress are known
to decrease a substance called  brain-derived neurotrophic
factor , or BDNF, a protein that may signal neuritin, Duman said.  About 25 to 30 percent of people have a genetic variation
on BDNF that makes them more vulnerable to early life trauma or
stress, he said. Learning how neuritin plays a role in
preventing or alleviating depression may lead to better drugs
for depression, with fewer side-effects.  The animal tranquilizer  ketamine  has previously been shown
to have fast-acting antidepressant effects by stimulating new
synaptic connections, Duman said. Future work may focus on
determining how ketamine plays a role in neurogenesis, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 