-- Supreme Court to Review Phoebe Putney Purchase of Palmyra
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-06-25T17:22:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/supreme-court-to-review-phoebe-putney-purchase-of-palmyra.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  said it will
decide whether states can block antitrust scrutiny of hospital
mergers such as Phoebe Putney Health System Inc.’s acquisition
of Palmyra Park Hospital in  Georgia .  The justices today said they will hear the Federal Trade
Commission’s appeal of a U.S. appellate court ruling that the
proposed purchase of HCA Inc.-owned Palmyra, based in  Albany ,
Georgia, could be carried out over the agency’s objections.  The Atlanta-based 11th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals said
the Georgia state legislature granted antitrust immunity to the
deal, trumping the FTC’s assertion that the acquisition would
result in too few health-care options for Albany residents.  “We are pleased that the Supreme Court will consider the
Phoebe Putney matter in the coming term,” FTC Chairman  Jon Leibowitz  said in an e-mailed statement. “This case is
important to consumers, who benefit from a competitive health
care marketplace. It also may provide crucial guidance on the
boundaries of the state action doctrine.”  A decision by the justices to limit the scope of state
exemptions would send a message to other hospitals considering
acquisitions, Leibowitz said earlier this month in an interview.  “There will be a real opportunity for stopping
anticompetitive behavior by some health-care providers,” he
said.  Cost Increases  Under Leibowitz, the FTC has made it a priority to
scrutinize mergers in the health-care industry to limit cost
increases to patients.  In a 4-0 vote, the agency’s commissioners ruled in March
that ProMedica Health System Inc.’s planned purchase of St.
Luke’s Hospital was anticompetitive and would lead to higher
prices for acute-care and obstetric services in Toledo,  Ohio .  The agency in 2010 pressured  Universal Health Services Inc. (UHS) 
to sell 15 facilities to get approval to buy Psychiatric
Solutions Inc.  In the Georgia case, the FTC contends that Phoebe Putney
spurred the Hospital Authority of Albany-Dougherty County to buy
Palmyra. Under a 1941 Georgia law, the authority has broad power
to deliver hospital services that aren’t governed by antitrust
statutes.  A combined Phoebe Putney-Palmyra would control 85 percent
of the market, giving the hospitals the ability to increase
reimbursement from insurers and leading to higher health costs
for patients, according to the FTC.  The 11th Circuit court said the state legislature knew its
law might create monopolies and that it was more important to
ensure people had health care services.  The case is Federal Trade Commission v. Phoebe Putney
Health System, 11-1160.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  