-- Supreme Court to Review Rules for Supervisor in Job-Bias Suits
-- B y   B o b   D r u m m o n d
-- 2012-06-25T17:02:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/supreme-court-to-review-rules-for-supervisor-in-job-bias-suits.html
The U.S.  Supreme Court  will settle a
dispute about who can be considered a workplace supervisor for
purposes of a federal job-discrimination lawsuit.  The justices today agreed to consider an appeal by a black
Ball State University catering worker, whose discrimination
claim against the school was thrown out after a federal appeals
court said her alleged harasser didn’t qualify as a supervisor.
Under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, an employer can be held
liable if a supervisor discriminates against an employee based
on race, color, religion, sex or national origin.  Maetta Vance sued Ball State alleging that a co-worker in
the Muncie, Indiana, university’s banquet and catering
department -- described as a salaried employee who functioned as
a supervisor -- had slapped her, threatened her and referred to
her using racial epithets.  The Chicago-based 7th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled
that Ball State couldn’t be held liable because the co-worker
didn’t qualify as a supervisor. To be a supervisor, the appeals
court said, a co-worker must have the authority to “directly
affect the terms and conditions” of employment, such as having
the power to hire, fire, demote, or transfer employees.  In her Supreme Court appeal, Vance says the Chicago court’s
ruling conflicts with standards used by other federal appeals
courts and by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which
say that a supervisor is someone with authority to direct an
employee’s daily work activities.  The Obama administration filed a brief agreeing with
Vance’s argument that the 7th Circuit’s legal definition of
supervisor conflicts with standards used by the EEOC and some
other courts in job-discrimination cases. The  Justice
Department , however, urged the court to deny Vance’s appeal,
saying the co-worker in her specific case wouldn’t qualify as a
supervisory employee under even the EEOC’s description.  The justices will review the case in the term that begins
in October. The case is Vance v. Ball State University, 11-556.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Drummond in Washington at 
 bdrummond@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  