-- Supreme Court Seeks U.S. Views on Drug Testing Royalties
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-06-25T14:45:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/supreme-court-seeks-u-s-views-on-drug-testing-royalties.html
The U.S. Supreme Court asked the
 Justice Department  to outline the government’s view on whether
drugmakers can be forced to pay patent royalties for tests they
conduct on the safety or proper dosage of approved medicines.  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  has filed an appeal at the Supreme
Court arguing that a royalty exemption given to drugmakers while
they’re seeking regulatory approval for new treatments should
also apply to post-approval testing. The London-based company is
fighting a lawsuit by Classen Immunotherapies Inc., which says
Glaxo is infringing its patents on methods for scheduling
vaccinations to limit patients’ risk of developing other
disorders.  The high court in 2005 let drug and biotechnology companies
use patented inventions for research, without paying royalties,
when the purpose is to win U.S. Food and Drug Administration
approval. Glaxo said an appeals court wrongly limited that
opinion to research conducted before a drug receives FDA
marketing approval.  “Efforts to research and develop improvements to medical
products commonly continue after initial drug approval, leading
to changes to the approved product and its labeling,” Glaxo
said in seeking high court review.  “The dividing line between pre- and post-marketing
approval activities” created by the appeals court “ignores
this basic reality, and is inconsistent with the FDA’s mission
of facilitating the development of better, safer and more
efficacious drugs,” Glaxo said.  Vaccine Risks  The  Supreme Court  today held off on deciding whether to
hear Glaxo’s appeal until the federal government files a brief
presenting its analysis of the case.  The dispute is over tests Glaxo conducted to evaluate
whether there was any correlation between its vaccines and
disorders including diabetes. Baltimore-based Classen, whose
founder claims there is a link, obtained patents on evaluating
risks and altering vaccination schedules.  Classen contends a victory for Glaxo would expand the
immunity from royalty payments beyond Congress’s intent and
“would completely eviscerate the  patent rights  enshrined in the
United States Constitution in the field of pharmaceutical and
medical device patents.”  The case is GlaxoSmithKline v. Classen Immunotherapies
Inc., 11-1078.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  