-- Suzlon Gains as China Unit Sale, Loan Plan Ease Debt Concerns
-- B y   N a t a l i e   O b i k o   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-06-25T10:27:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/suzlon-gains-as-china-unit-sale-loan-plan-ease-debt-concerns.html
Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s largest
wind-turbine maker, jumped in Mumbai trading after saying a  bank
loan  and the sale of a Chinese factory will help it raise $360
million to repay bondholders and lenders.  Suzlon rose as much as 4.3 percent on optimism a $300
million  term loan  from a group of banks including SBI Capital
Markets Ltd. will be agreed as early as this week. The dollar-
denominated loan will have a “single-digit”  interest rate ,
Chief Financial Officer Kirti Vagadia said today in an interview
in Mumbai.  “We’re very close,” Vagadia said. He dismissed the
possibility that Suzlon wouldn’t secure the funds in time before
$358 million of convertible bonds mature on July 27. “I don’t
foresee that risk.”  The Indian company has been seeking to raise cash as about
$600 million in loan and bond repayments fall due in the
financial year ending March 31. In October, Suzlon has another
$200 million of convertible notes due and must also repay banks
about $40 million this year, Vagadia said.  Suzlon added 2 percent to 17.75 rupees as of 3:42 p.m. in
Mumbai trading. The shares were little changed this year.  Meeting those obligations could still be “tricky,” said
Charanjit Singh, a Bangalore-based analyst for HSBC Bank Plc.
Suzlon is “not out of the woods yet” and faces a higher
 default risk  next year when it’ll face about $250 million in
loan repayments, he said.  Asset Sales  Singh calculates Suzlon may need to raise at least $240
million through asset sales this financial year and next. So
far, it has raised $40 million from selling two wind farms in
April.  It expects another $60 million in the next “couple
months” after obtaining government approvals to sell its
Chinese manufacturing plant to China Power (Tianjin) New Energy
Development Co., Vagadia said.  The $60 million from the China plant is “not critical” to
meeting its bond obligations next month as the company will have
the new term loan before then, Vagadia said. The facility, which
produced turbine components including nacelles and rotor blades,
has 600 megawatts of annual production capacity.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Natalie Obiko Pearson in Mumbai at 
 npearson7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  