-- Swiss Stocks Drop as Stage Set for European Summit
-- B y   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-06-25T16:03:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/swiss-stocks-drop-as-stage-set-for-european-summit.html
Swiss stocks  dropped for a fourth
day as European Union leaders prepared for this week’s summit in
Brussels amid Germany’s continuing opposition to joint euro-area
debt sales.  ABB Ltd. (ABBN) , the world’s largest power-grid maker, fell 2.8
percent after JPMorgan Chase & Co. cut its recommendation on the
shares. UBS AG led banks lower.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI)  declined 0.8 percent to 5,944.48 at
the close of trading in Zurich, reducing its advance to 0.1
percent this year. The benchmark measure has still gained 4.1
percent since its 2012 low on June 4 as Greece formed a
government after its second election in six weeks. The broader
Swiss Performance Index fell 0.8 percent today.  “There have been several meetings, but the market hasn’t
seen a big decision to resolve the debt problem,” said Pierre Mouton, a  fund manager  who helps oversee $7 billion at Notz
Stucki & Cie. in Geneva. “Things are in limbo waiting for
politicians to act and make a decision.”  Germany faces an increasingly united bloc of euro-area
nations demanding more drastic measures to save the currency
union. Leaders will attend pre-summit meetings as they work to
narrow differences before the June 28-29 gathering.  German Opposition  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said there can’t
be any joint euro-area debt “as long as national states
decide” on  government spending . He made the comment in an
interview on ZDF television yesterday.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  called on Europe to start
a fund to buy Italian and Spanish bonds, saying policy makers
should create a European Fiscal Authority to purchase the debt
in return for the countries implementing achievable budget cuts.  Elsewhere, the  Bank for International Settlements  said in
its annual report released yesterday that central banks are
facing the limit of their ability to boost economic growth.  Central banks are being “cornered into prolonging monetary
stimulus,” the Basel, Switzerland-based BIS said. “Both
conventionally and unconventionally, accommodative monetary
policies are palliatives and have their limits.”  ABB lost 2.8 percent to 14.97 Swiss francs. JPMorgan cut
its recommendation on the stock to underweight from neutral,
meaning investors should reduce their holdings.  UBS (UBSN) , Switzerland’s biggest bank, slid 3 percent to 11.05
francs. Credit Suisse Group AG, the second largest, fell 2.7
percent to 17.46 francs.  Adecco SA (ADEN) , the world’s largest supplier of temporary
workers, lost 2.7 percent to 37.30 francs as it fell for a third
day.  Sonova Boycott  Sonova Holding AG (SOON)  retreated 1.1 percent to 91.40 francs
after a boycott by French and Belgian audiologists of its Phonak
and Unitron hearing aids.  The website MesOpinions.com said it has 477 signatures on a
petition following Sonova’s disclosure that it bought Audition
Sante, a network of independent audiologists. The doctors are
concerned that Audition Sante will restrict the choice of brands
sold at their centers, the petition said.  The petition is “an unfortunate event for Sonova and
tarnishes the company’s reputation,” Simon Goetschmann, an
analyst at Helvea AG, wrote in a note to clients.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  