-- Syria Knew Identity of Jet Before Shooting, Turkey Says
-- B y   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c   a n d   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-06-26T14:08:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/syria-knew-identify-of-jet-before-shooting-turkey-says.html
Turkey  is ready to open fire on any
Syrian military forces that approach its border and are deemed a
threat after the shooting down of a Turkish warplane by Syria
last week, Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  said.  The attack in international airspace shows that Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad poses a “clear and present danger”
to Turkey as well as to the Syrian people, Erdogan told
lawmakers from his party in Ankara today.  Under new rules of engagement for the Turkish army, “any
military element that approaches the Turkish border from Syria
in a way that may pose a risk or danger will be viewed as a
threat and treated as a military target,” he said. Syrian
security forces have frequently carried out operations against
opposition forces near the border area as part of Assad’s 15-
month crackdown.  Turkey’s warning escalates the risk that the civil conflict
may draw in  Syria ’s neighbors. Ties between the former allies
have deteriorated as the death toll in Syria mounts, with more
than 10,000 dead according to the United Nations. Erdogan has
called on Assad to step down and some of the main Syrian
opposition groups are operating from Turkish bases.  Turkey summoned a meeting of its fellow members of the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization in Brussels today to discuss
the destruction of its plane, an F-4 Phantom, on June 22. NATO
Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said after the talks
that the Syrian action was “unacceptable” and the alliance
will “follow the situation closely.”  No Immediate Action  “I don’t think we should expect any immediate actions”
from Turkey, which will be unwilling to act alone and would
require “very strong backing from the West as well as from key
Arab states,” said Salman Shaikh, director of the Brookings
Doha Center in Qatar. Still, he said, “the longer this goes on,
the more pressure there will be for countries to act, and for
Turkey to act.”  Syrian authorities knew that the jet was Turkish when they
shot it down, Turkey’s ambassador to the  United Nations ,
Ertugrul Apakan, said in a letter to Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon yesterday, citing Syrian radio communications. He said a
Turkish rescue plane was also fired at.  Syria’s ambassador to  Russia , Riad Haddad, said in an
interview today that Syrian forces didn’t know that the plane
was Turkish when anti-aircraft artillery shot it down as it
approached Lattakia. He said they only found that out when
Syrian rescue ships saw three Turkish helicopters searching for
the plane.  ‘Clear Violation’  Foreign Ministry spokesman Jihad Makdissi yesterday
described the shooting as a defensive act following a “clear
violation of Syrian sovereignty,” and also as an “accident.”  Syria has criticized its northern neighbor for hosting
groups working to oust Assad. U.S. intelligence officials in
southern Turkey are helping channel arms paid for by  Saudi
Arabia  and Qatar to Syrian opposition groups, the  New York  Times
reported last week. Turkey’s Foreign Ministry denied the report.  Syrian security forces killed 57 people today, Al Jazeera
television reported. About 100 people were killed in fighting
yesterday, said Rami Abdel Rahman, head of the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights , said in a phone interview from the
U.K. He said clashes were reported today at the headquarters of
the Republican Guards outside Damascus.  Article Four  Turkey invoked article four of the NATO treaty in seeking
today’s meeting, Bulent Arinc, Turkey’s deputy prime minister,
told the state-run Anatolia news agency late yesterday. The
article entitles a member country that is attacked or threatened
to summon the rest of the alliance for consultations.  Turkey hasn’t invoked article five, which requires members
to recognize an attack on one as an attack on all and to assist
the violated country in any action it deems necessary, including
the use of armed force, Arinc said.  The Turkish lira and bonds recouped losses today after
declining yesterday following the government’s pledge to take
action against Syria. Yields on benchmark  two-year  debt fell
back to 8.80 today, the same as last week’s close, after surging
12 basis points yesterday.  The U.S. has backed the Turkish account of the plane’s
downing.  “There was no warning to this aircraft, it was just shot
out of the sky,” U.S. State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said yesterday. “And that obviously is not in keeping
with international norms in such incidents.”  Turkish and Syrian officials say the two missing Turkish
airmen haven’t been found, though aircraft wreckage has been
discovered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net ;
 Benjamin Harvey  in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 