-- U.S. Should Create Rules for Export Support, Ex-Im Head Says
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-06-25T18:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/u-s-should-create-framework-for-export-support-ex-im-head-says.html
The U.S. should take the lead in
writing global rules for export financing to blunt an increase
in unregulated support from nations including  China , India and
Brazil, Export-Import Bank Chairman  Fred Hochberg  said.  “Export finance is increasingly like the Wild West, where
rules are loosely followed, if at all,” Hochberg said in a
speech today in  Washington . “America needs to lead the world in
developing a new framework.”  Governments are increasing exports with at least $160
billion in unregulated support, including direct state
investment, according to the Washington-based Ex-Im Bank. The
rules-based system set up in 1978 by the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development -- primarily the U.S. and
European nations -- is out of date, Hochberg said.  “The international export-finance landscape is changing
dramatically, and not in ways that necessarily benefit the
 United States ,” he said. Other countries will “continue to try
and create their own national champions” to compete with U.S.
companies.  The 78-year-old bank is playing a role as President  Barack Obama  seeks to double the value of U.S. exports from 2009
through the end of 2014. The bank provides loans, guarantees and
insurance to help overseas companies buy U.S. products. Last
year it approved a record $32.7 billion in financing, with about
$11 billion for sales of  Boeing Co. (BA)  aircraft.  China Talks  The U.S. and China since February are among governments
negotiating a new export finance system and may have an plan in
place by the end of 2014, Hochberg said. Participants are still
defining issues, including infrastructure financing, he said.  Congress last month reauthorized the bank’s charter through
2014, with a $140 billion lending limit, after a debate about
its role and effectiveness. Critics such as the Club for Growth,
a Washington-based organization that advocates for limited
government, have said the bank meddles in markets. U.S. carriers
led by  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  of Atlanta said the lender doesn’t
adequately consider the effect of its financing on domestic
industries, which Hochberg disputed.  The U.S. should overhaul its “alphabet soup” of trade-
related agencies, including the bank and the U.S. Trade
Representative’s office, Hochberg said.  There should be a “healthy debate about what configuration
will ultimately work,” according to Hochberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  