-- U.S. Stocks Drop on Europe as Crisis Threatens Earnings
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-06-25T20:30:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/u-s-stock-index-futures-decline-before-house-sales-data.html
U.S. stocks tumbled on concern this
week’s European Union summit will fail to tame a crisis which
put American earnings on pace for the first decline since 2009.  Technology,  financial  and energy shares dropped the most
among 10 groups in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC)  and  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  slumped at least 4.2
percent.  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  sank 2.7 percent after agreeing to
acquire Yammer Inc. for $1.2 billion in cash. Constellation
Brands Inc. surged 13 percent as it may benefit from a potential
deal between Grupo Modelo SAB and Anheuser-Busch InBev NV.  The S&P 500 slid 1.6 percent to 1,313.72 at 4 p.m. New York
time as 470 of its 500 stocks declined. The  Dow Jones Industrial
Average  fell 138.12 points, or 1.1 percent, to 12,502.66. Volume
for exchange-listed stocks in the U.S. was about  5.9 billion 
shares, or 13 percent below the three-month average.  “There are reasons for investors to be concerned,”
 Stephen Wood , the New York-based chief market strategist for
Russell Investments, said in a telephone interview. His firm
oversees $140.8 billion. “In addition to the ongoing wounds of
Europe, we’ll begin to see softness in corporate earnings.”  Equities slumped as  Chancellor Angela Merkel  hardened her
resistance to euro-area debt sharing, setting Germany on a
collision course with its allies at a summit on June 28. Cyprus
said it will seek a financial lifeline from the euro area’s
firewall funds. Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras consented
to the resignation of his finance minister, Vassilios Rapanos.  Billionaire investor  George Soros  warned that a failure by
leaders meeting this week to produce drastic measures could
spell the demise of the currency.  ‘Be Fatal’  “There is a disagreement on the fiscal side,” Soros, 81,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s Francine Lacqua
at his home in London. “Unless that is resolved in the next
three days, then I am afraid the summit could turn out to be a
fiasco. That could actually be fatal.”  Europe’s debt crisis is putting pressure on corporate
results. Analysts predict members of the  S&P 500  will report a
1.1 percent average drop in second-quarter earnings, after
estimating a gain as recently as last month, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That would follow a 6.2 percent average
increase in the first quarter.  Earnings  pessimism  reached levels last seen during the
financial crisis. Fifty-nine corporations issued profit
projections that trailed analyst estimates during the 20 days
through June 22, or 3.1 times the number of those that exceeded
them. The ratio has been greater than 3 for eight straight days,
the longest stretch in three years. It was at least that high
the majority of the time between October 2008 and April 2009,
climbing to 11.5 in December 2008, the data show.  ‘Very Unlikely’  “There is a lot of trepidation about second-quarter
earnings,”  Tim Ghriskey , chief investment officer of Solaris
Group in  Bedford Hills , New York, said in a June 22 interview.
He oversees about $2 billion. “You are very unlikely to see
companies coming out with favorable outlooks given the problems
in Europe and the slowing growth in the U.S. and China.”  Alcoa Inc., traditionally the first company in the Dow to
report quarterly earnings, is scheduled to release its second-
quarter figures on July 9.  All  10 groups  in the S&P 500 fell as technology, financial
and energy shares dropped at least 1.8 percent. The Morgan
Stanley Cyclical Index of companies most-tied to the economy
slumped 2.6 percent even as data showed demand for new homes
rose more than forecast. Bank of America slid 4.3 percent to
$7.60. Chesapeake Energy retreated 8.5 percent to $17.03.  Microsoft’s Deal  Microsoft dropped 2.7 percent to $29.87. San Francisco-
based Yammer provides features -- similar to those found on
 Facebook (FB)  Inc. -- to more than 200,000 companies such as Ford
Motor Co. and EBay Inc. It will become part of Microsoft’s
Office division and the team will continue to report to current
Yammer Chief Executive Officer David Sacks.  Facebook, the biggest social-networking operator, decreased
3 percent to $32.06. The decline followed a 22 percent advance
over the previous two weeks.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  fell 1.1 percent to $22.47, while  Bristol-Myers
Squibb Co. (BMY)  sank 3.5 percent to $34.13. The companies failed to
gain approval of the blood thinner Eliquis from U.S. regulators,
who said they needed more data on the treatment.  Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  slipped 6.1 percent to $3.09. The
third-biggest U.S. wireless  carrier  declined amid concern over
the management of its fourth-generation network expansion.  GeoEye Inc. (GEOY)  tumbled 22 percent, the biggest decline since
2004, to $14.24. The provider of satellite imagery said a
federal agency may scale back a $3.8 billion contract.  Largest Winemaker  Constellation (STZ)  surged 13 percent to $21.86. The world’s
largest winemaker gained the most in almost a decade as
Anheuser-Busch InBev seeks to acquire the rest of Corona maker
Grupo Modelo in a deal that a person familiar with the talks
said could bring a payment to Constellation.  Quest Software Inc. (QSFT)  jumped 5.6 percent to $27.70. The
software maker that agreed to be bought by a group led by
Insight Venture Partners said it has received a higher offer of
$27.50 a share in cash.  Newmont Mining Corp., the largest U.S. gold producer,
advanced 1.7 percent to $48.79. Gold futures gained the most in
three weeks as Europe’s debt concern spurred demand for the
metal as a hedge.  Fertilizer producers rallied after Dahlman Rose & Co.
raised its recommendation for the industry.  CF Industries
Holdings Inc. (CF)  increased 3.4 percent to $183.66.  Mosaic Co. (MOS) 
gained 1 percent to $51.10.  Bountiful Oil  At a time of record fuel demand, bountiful oil and natural
gas, and expanding economies, no stocks are doing worse in the
world than energy producers from BP Plc to Hess Corp.  The  MSCI World Energy Index (MXWO)  has declined 9.6 percent this
year through last week, more than any other group, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The gauge has climbed 45 percent
since equities bottomed in 2009, less than any industry with
earnings tied to economic growth. In the U.S., the stocks are at
the  cheapest levels  relative to the S&P 500 since 2009.  The divergence reflects the transformation of an industry
where growing consumption of energy has been met with even
bigger gains in supply. U.S. crude inventories are the highest
since 1990 and natural gas prices have lost 38 percent in 12
months amid a glut spurred by hydraulic fracturing. Bears say
energy producers, making up about 10 percent of global stocks,
will keep equities from advancing. Bulls say the market will
rally when their shares rebound.  “The S&P 500 will have a tough time making meaningful
progress until the energy sector bottoms and begins to move
higher,” Jim Russell, the Cincinnati-based chief equity
strategist at U.S. Bank Wealth Management, which oversees about
$116 billion, said in a phone interview on June 20. “Even
though the valuations of the stocks are cheap, the fundamentals
have not yet bottomed.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  