-- U.S. Import Supremacy Seen Falling to China and Germany b
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   M .   F r e e d m a n
-- 2012-06-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/u-s-import-supremacy-seen-falling-to-china-and-germany.html
Germany and  China  will leapfrog the
U.S. to become the world’s largest importers by 2026, according
to a study by HSBC Holdings Plc that also forecast a “tipping
point” in the balance of trade power in the next five years.  The shift means growth in traditionally export-driven
countries will come from imports, HSBC said today in its Global
Connections report. Imports in China, India and  Brazil , which
along with  Russia  make up the BRIC bloc, will begin expanding
more than exports over the next five years in a trend that will
last through at least 2026, it said.  “We will soon see that imports will grow faster than
exports in  emerging markets ,” Alan Keir, HSBC’s London-based
global head of commercial banking, said in an e-mailed
statement. “This will signify a shift where traditionally
export-driven countries will drive developed and emerging market
growth as their own trade demands become more powerful.”  Emerging economies will underpin global growth this year
and next as the euro region’s debt crisis weighs down wealthy
nations, the  International Monetary Fund  said in a June 20
report. While industrialized countries “clearly still represent
the largest share of global trade by volume,” growth is easing,
particularly in Europe, and emerging nations are outpacing the
developed world in terms of speed of trade expansion, HSBC said.  ‘Challenging Test’  Still,  Jim O’Neill , who as Goldman Sachs Group Inc.’s chief
economist coined the BRICs term in 2001, warned this month that
growth in the four nations may be slowing. O’Neill, now chairman
of Goldman Sachs Asset Management, said his opinion that Brazil,
Russia, India and China would buoy the global economy faces “a
more challenging test” as investors dump the countries’ stocks.  China pared its growth target to the lowest since 2004,
 Standard & Poor’s  may cut India’s investment-grade credit
rating, Brazil is on pace to expand less than 3 percent for a
second straight year and falling oil prices may hurt Russia.  HSBC predicts that emerging markets will enjoy the biggest
gains in trade, with  Latin America  up 6 percent and Asia 5.4
percent to 2016. Chinese import growth will outpace export
expansion 5.1 percent to 4.7 percent. Indian exports will gain
5.4 percent compared with a 7.2 percent rise in imports.  Brazilian and Chinese car imports will climb 13 percent and
12 percent, respectively, to 2016 while Indian auto exports will
rise almost 13 percent. Imports of medicines and so-called
biopharma products will grow an annualized 5.3 percent and 6.6
percent, driven by demand from emerging markets and supplied by
the U.S. and Europe, it said.  ‘Bigger Picture’  “The message for international businesses, small or large,
is to look at the bigger picture,” Keir said. “Those in
developed nations have to look beyond their borders at the
opportunities in rapidly growing markets, while emerging-market
businesses need to access the growth of these new trade
powerhouses closer to home.”  Exports from the U.S., the U.K.,  France  and  Spain  will grow
at a faster pace than imports in the coming 15 years, according
to HSBC. China will become the dominant trade nation “by some
distance” as its “strong growth trajectory will result in it
overtaking the U.S. as the world’s second-largest importer after
 Germany , and strengthening its position as the world’s largest
exporter by 2026,” HSBC said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer M. Freedman in Geneva at 
 jfreedman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  