-- U.S. Companies Seen Withstanding European Crisis, Moody’s Says
-- B y   K r i s t a   G i o v a c c o
-- 2012-06-25T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/u-s-companies-seen-withstanding-european-crisis-moody-s-says.html
Europe ’s financial crisis isn’t
affecting the ability of speculative grade U.S. companies to
meet debt obligations, keeping the default rate below the
historical average, according to Moody’s Investors Service.  The number of borrowers rated B3 negative and lower
declined to 166 as of June 1, Moody’s said yesterday in a
report. In March 2009, at the height of the credit crisis, about
300 companies were among the lowest-rated. That’s from among a
total group that includes 1,250 non-financial issuers with
speculative-grade credit ratings. Companies are added to the
list when they are downgraded to B3 negative or below.  With so many companies refinancing debt to 2014 and beyond,
few are at risk of defaulting if the  U.S. economy  faces
recession in the first half of 2013, according to Moody’s. The
ratings company expects the  default rate  to rise to 4 percent in
October, from 3.1 percent in May and below the 4.6 percent
historical average dating back to 1992.  “U.S. high-yield corporate debt issuers overall are in
good shape, amid concerns of further economic fallout from the
European sovereign debt crisis and uncertainty surrounding the
direction of the U.S. economy,” analysts led by David Keisman
wrote in the report.  The U.S. speculative-grade default rate peaked at 14.5
percent in November 2009, according to Moody’s. Since then fewer
companies have been added to the list as a result of ratings
downgrades, leading to the stability, Moody’s said.  Moody’s outlook for global  non-financial industry  sectors
remains mostly stable, reflecting analysts’ views that
fundamental business conditions won’t “significantly” change
during the next 12 to 18 months, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Krista Giovacco in  New York  at 
 kgiovacco1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  