-- Lucy, Gentleman Jack Whiskey Instills Pride in Tennessee
-- B y   J o h n   M a r i a n i
-- 2012-06-25T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/lucy-gentleman-jack-whiskey-instills-pride-in-tennessee.html
If you should swagger into a bar in
Nashville and, like Greta Garbo in “ Anna Christie ”, bark,
“Gimme a viskee...ginger ale on der side,” you’re probably
going to get served  Jack Daniel’s  or George Dickel. But if you
sip it and then say, “Damn fine bourbon,” you may just get
thrown out.  Tennesseans take justifiable pride in their namesake
whiskey, which, they will remind you, is not the same as
bourbon, a drink made mainly in neighboring Kentucky.  The  North American Free Trade Agreement  defines Tennessee
whiskey as a “straight bourbon whiskey produced in the state of
Tennessee.”  You won’t find the word bourbon printed anywhere on the
labels of the four distilleries that make Tennessee whiskey:
Jack Daniel’s, George Dickel, Prichard’s, and  Collier and
McKeel , which is sold only within the state.  The distinctions made by NAFTA may seem slight: bourbon
must be distilled from a mash of 51 percent corn and aged in
charred oak barrels for a minimum of two years; Tennessee
whiskeys are made much the same way, but not necessarily aged in
charred oak.  Jack Daniel’s and  Dickel  also filter their whiskeys through
sugar-maple charcoal before aging -- called the Lincoln County
process -- which is said to impart a smooth sweetness to the
liquor.  Lincoln Process  Of course, in practice, the distinctions aren’t so simple.
“When it comes out of the still, it’s  Tennessee  whiskey if it’s
made in Tennessee,” says Phil Prichard of  Prichard’s Distillery 
in Kelso, part of Lincoln County, Tennessee.  Prichard also makes a single-malt whiskey, a 95-proof
 Double Barreled Bourbon , a Sweet Lucy Bourbon Liqueur, and a 90-
proof Lincoln County Lightning, made from white corn straight
out of the still, just like moonshine. As far as Prichard is
concerned, all are Tennessee whiskeys.  For many years Jack Daniel’s Old No.7 Black Label (80
proof), dating from the 1830’s and winner of a gold medal at the
1904 St. Louis World’s Fair, was its only product.  In the past couple of decades, the brand has expanded its
offerings.  Gentleman Jack Rare  (80 proof), was introduced in
1988, Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel (94 proof) in 1997, and Jack
Daniel’s Tennessee Honey (70 proof) in 2011.  Whiskey Bar  I did a tasting of various Tennessee whiskeys in a most
appropriate place: the historic Oak Bar in Nashville’s  Hermitage
Hotel , with a plate of smoked and pickled charcuterie by chef
Tyler Brown.  Given the similarities between  Kentucky  bourbons and
Tennessee whiskeys, I cannot claim to discern significant
distinctions. What I can do is tell you how they taste, from
bottle to bottle.  Jack Daniel’s Old No.7, with its familiar black label, has
a fine balance of charred oak and caramel flavors and hits the
back of the tongue like a love tap, just enough to linger. (By
the way, no one seems to know what the No.7 signifies on the
label.)  Gentleman Jack is charcoal mellowed twice, once before and
once after aging -- they call it the “blessing”-- which makes
it somewhat mellower, a little sweeter and a bit gentler on the
finish.  At 94 proof, Jack Daniel’s Single Barrel is a powerhouse.
It’s drawn from barrels that rest in the warmer, upper floors of
the distillery by master distiller Jeff Arnett.  Robust Taste  He contends that each barrel can have distinct nuances
making one bottle subtly different from another. It’s a darker
whiskey, robust but very satisfying and warm on the palate.  Jack Daniel’s novelty whiskey is Tennessee Honey, made by
adding honey liqueur. The producer recommends serving it
“chilled straight or in drinks with other mixers like lemonade,
tea or ginger ale.” That works for me, especially during the
summer, and it makes a splendid Old Fashioned, with a dash of
bitters.  The story goes that George A. Dickel, who founded his
distillery in Tullahoma, Tennessee, in 1870, discovered that
whiskey made during the winter was smoother than whiskey made in
the summer. So he began chilling his distillation before it went
into the charcoal vats.  The distillery re-opened in 1958 after closing for 40
years, and is now run by master distiller John Lunn, who makes
No.8 and No.12 labels (as well as Cascade Hollow and Barrel
Select, which I have not tasted).  Tennessee Classic  If there were such a thing as a “classic” Tennessee
whiskey, it might be the  No.8 . Vanilla, toast, corn and smoke
all mingle in the bottle, with a lively burn at the back of it
all.  No.12 is a deeper, richer, more concentrated spirit, at 90
proof, blended from older whiskeys than the No.8. This is not a
drink you do knock back at a bar; you sip it after dinner.  The renegade Prichard’s Tennessee Whiskey, founded in 1997
in an old schoolhouse complete with basketball hoops, is made
from white corn in small batch copper pots, and aged in white
oak barrels.  The nose is a glorious burst of vanilla and soft oak; it
begins sweet on the tongue, then trails off with an engaging,
peppery finish that stays there until you take your next sip.  And you will.  ( John Mariani  writes on wine for Bloomberg News. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include Hephzibah Anderson’s  book  review
and Catherine Hickley on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
John Mariani at  john@johnmariani.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 