-- Hungary Holds Interest Rate at EU’s Highest for 6th Month
-- B y   Z o l t a n   S i m o n   a n d   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 2012-06-26T14:36:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/hungary-to-hold-rate-for-sixth-month-as-timing-of-reduction-eyed.html
Hungary’s central bank left its
 benchmark interest rate  at the European Union’s highest level as
a surging forint and a looming recession balanced concern over
the fastest inflation in the 27-member bloc.  The  Magyar Nemzeti Bank  voted “overwhelmingly” to keep
the two-week deposit rate at 7 percent today for a sixth month,
after considering a proposal for a quarter-point cut, President
 Andras Simor  told reporters in Budapest. That matched the
forecast of all 27 economists in a Bloomberg survey.  The government and central bank last week agreed on
amendments to a central bank law to unblock bailout talks,
stalled for seven months as lenders including the  International
Monetary Fund  said the legislation threatened monetary-policy
independence. Progress toward aid talks, along with the election
of pro-bailout parties in  Greece  this month, helped the forint
rally.  “The council will consider a reduction in interest rates
if Hungary’s risk premium falls persistently and substantially
and the outlook for inflation improves,” the rate-setting
Monetary Council said in a statement.  Forint Strengthens  The forint rose 4.7 percent against the euro in the past
month, the best performance in the world after the  New Zealand
dollar . It gained 0.6 percent to 286.17 by 3:33 p.m. in
Budapest.  The cost of insuring against non-payment on Hungary’s debt
with credit-default swaps for five years fell to 527 basis
points from 625 basis points on June 1. The yield on the 10-year
government bond fell a full percentage point in the period to
8.1 percent today.  Central banks across  Europe  are weighing the effects of the
sovereign-debt crisis with slowing growth and the need to narrow
budget deficits. The  European Central Bank  and Poland both left
 interest rates  on hold on June 6, while Czech policy makers will
lower borrowing costs to a record-low 0.5 percent on June 28,
according to 20 of 24 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The central bank today cut its gross domestic product
forecast for this year and 2013 and boosted its inflation
estimate for next year. The economy will fall into a recession
this year, contracting 0.8 percent, before expanding 0.8 percent
next year, the central bank said in a preview of its June 28
Inflation Report. The previous forecast was for 0.1 percent
growth in 2012 and a 1.5 percent advance in 2013.  Economic Forecasts  The inflation rate may average 5.3 percent this year and
3.5 percent in 2013, the Magyar Nemzeti Bank said. The previous
forecasts were 5.6 percent for 2012 and 3 percent in 2013.  Consumer-price growth may still slow to the central bank’s
3 percent target by the end of 2013, Simor said. Policy makers
will make “every effort” to prevent second-round effects of
tax increases to boost inflation expectations, the Monetary
Council said.  Hungary ’s  inflation , the fastest in the EU, unexpectedly
slowed in May when consumer prices rose 5.3 percent from a year
earlier after a 5.7 percent increase in April.  The Cabinet approved plans to tax on banking, energy,
telecommunications and insurance services May 9 to allay EU
concern that its budget was unsustainable and to unfreeze grants
from the trading bloc.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Zoltan Simon in Budapest at 
 zsimon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  