-- Turkey Invokes Collective Defense for Nato Meeting on Syria
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y   a n d   A l i   B e r a t   M e r i c
-- 2012-06-25T17:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/turkey-says-syria-shot-down-jet-with-missile-not-anti-aircraft.html
Turkey has invoked articles four and
five of the NATO treaty in calling for a meeting tomorrow of the
defensive alliance after  Syria  shot down one of its jets, Deputy
Prime Minister Bulent Arinc said.  Syria shot down a Turkish jet on June 22 using a missile,
not an anti-aircraft gun as Syrian officials claim, Arinc said
today at a press conference following a meeting of Turkish
ministers in Ankara. The act was “hostile” and the
international community is on Turkey’s side, he said.  Article four of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization
charter calls for members to consult one another when the
security of a member is threatened. Article five calls on
members to recognize an attack on one as an attack on all and to
assist the violated member in any action it deems necessary,
including the use of armed force.  The Turkish jet mistakenly entered Syrian airspace for five
minutes and was shot down in international airspace
“intentionally” and in “cold blood” with no warning, Arinc
said.  Search operations to find the missing Turkish pilots are
continuing, he said. Syrian forces also fired upon a Turkish
plane joining initial rescue operations after the plane went
down, Arinc said. The firing stopped after official warnings to
the Syrian government, he said.  Syrian jets routinely violate Turkish airspace and aren’t
fired upon, Arinc said.  Turkey  is not on the side of “warmongers” and will seek
to resolve the issue using its legal rights under international
law, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net ;
Ali Berat Meric in Ankara at 
 americ@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  