-- Why Turkey’s the Wrong Model for Egypt
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-06-25T22:30:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/turkey-isn-t-the-right-model-for-egypt.html
Ever since Egyptians occupied
Cairo’s  Tahrir Square  to face down former President  Hosni Mubarak  last year, Western diplomats and analysts have hoped
aloud that the most populous and politically important Arab
nation might follow the “Turkish Model.”  They were wrong then, but they may be right now.  Sunday’s decision by  Egypt ’s election commission to
acknowledge the results of the country’s first free presidential
elections -- a win for the Muslim Brotherhood’s Mohamed Mursi --
was heartening. The alternative, a stolen election, would have
been depressing and had unpredictable consequences.  But the Egyptian military’s attempt to dismiss parliament
and eviscerate the president’s office ahead of the vote is a
clear sign of a stunted democratic system in the making -- one
that’s all too familiar to Turks.  Until the last decade, civilian governments in  Turkey 
operated within strict confines delineated by the military.
Sometimes, as in 1971 and 1997, the generals forced governments
out with blunt or veiled threats. Sometimes, as in 1960 and
1980, they asserted themselves in an armed coup. On a daily
basis, the courts and other state structures -- some extra-legal
-- helped enforce the military’s will. Turks called this the
“deep state,” a phrase meant to express the shallow nature of
the country’s democracy.  Wrong Model  This isn’t the Turkish model you usually hear about -- one
in which a predominantly Muslim nation is ruled by a civilian
and moderately Islamist government committed to free-market
democracy. Unfortunately, Egypt appears determined to follow the
earlier version of the Turkish model.  The relatively prosperous and democratic Turkey we know
today is still very much evolving. It has existed only since
about 2007, when the ruling  Justice and Development Party ,
better known as AKP, took on the military over the right to
elect former Islamist  Abdullah Gul  as president, and won. The
government responded to its victory by effectively putting the
armed forces on trial. Hundreds of officers, including dozens of
generals, remain behind bars awaiting verdicts.  The Turkish and Egyptian militaries have a lot in common.
Both see themselves as defenders of the state from an Islamist
takeover. Both built vast economic empires at home: Turkey’s
Oyak Group remains one of the country’s biggest conglomerates,
funded by military pensions and making everything from Renault
cars to cement. Both militaries enjoy, despite everything, deep
wells of popular trust as effective institutions that in the
relatively recent past carried out armed feats of national
importance.  The first lesson to draw in Egypt from the Turkish model is
that a military that ran the nation for decades will have deep
roots in the establishment and among significant parts of the
population who are frightened of what Islamists may bring. It
won’t give up easily. This is a process that will probably take
years, and may involve a long period of cohabitation between
rival centers of power.  Second, the U.S. should recall that it was a key sponsor of
the military in Turkey -- a North Atlantic Treaty Organization
member and an important  Cold War  ally -- and was widely resented
by Turks for supporting the generals through thick and thin.
That changed after the Cold War, but deep skepticism over U.S.
motives lingers among Turks today, as it does in Egypt. As we
have said before, the U.S. should strictly condition the $1.3
billion in aid it gives to the Egyptian military based on its
democratic record. Right now, that record is poor.  Military Parallels  Finally, Egypt’s military can draw lessons of its own from
the Turkish experience. Turkey’s military has felt lingering
humiliation since 2007, when it warned in a  statement  about
Gul’s election that it was ready “to protect the unchangeable
characteristics of the Republic of Turkey” against threats “in
the guise of religion,” but was unable or unwilling to follow
through. The civilian authorities are now using the same
politically charged judicial system against the military that
the generals abused for so many years in suppressing real and
imagined radical Islamists.  The two countries’ situations are also different, of
course. Unlike Turkey, Egypt isn’t trying to join the European
Union and isn’t a member of institutions such as the  Council of
Europe . These were important tools the AKP used against the
Turkish military. The Muslim Brotherhood is also more Islamist
than the AKP, and Turkey’s gross domestic product per capita is
more than twice that of Egypt.  Still, Egypt’s generals should take note that it was a
major geostrategic event -- the end of the Cold War and the fall
of communism -- that weakened the support, domestic and
international, of their Turkish counterparts. The Arab Spring
could yet play a similar role in the  Middle East .  Unlike Egypt, Turkey had no revolution in which the armed
forces intervened to protect ordinary protesters -- an
extraordinary opportunity for Egypt’s generals. If they carry
through with the current move to stay in charge by gutting
efforts to build up democratic institutions, they will only
polarize the nation against them.  The end result would likely be as in Turkey: humiliation
and jail, with much suffering along the way.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  Supreme Court ’s  ruling on
Arizona’s immigration law ;  Margaret Carlson  on  Rielle Hunter ;
 Noah Feldman  on Justice Kennedy’s  liberal moment ; William Pesek
on  Thailand’s former prime minister ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on who
 Romney’s running mate  will be; Richard J. Carroll on modern  U.S.
presidents’ economic performances .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 