-- Turkey Yields Jump Most in 11 Weeks as Syria Downs Warplane
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-06-25T14:54:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/turkey-bond-yields-jump-most-in-7-weeks-as-syria-shoots-warplane.html
Bond yields in  Turkey  rose for the
first time in five days, jumping the most in almost 11 weeks,
and the lira weakened after Syrian forces shot down the
country’s warplane, escalating tensions.  The yield on two-year benchmark debt advanced 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, to 8.92 percent at the close
in Istanbul, the biggest rise since April 10. The lira
depreciated for a third day, down 0.4 percent to 1.8226 per
dollar, paring this year’s gain versus the dollar to 3.8
percent. The currency’s three-day stretch of declines is its
longest losing streak since May 18.  The shooting has heightened tensions that have arisen in
the past year over Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s crackdown
on anti-government protesters, which has left more than 10,000
people dead. Turkey is still weighing a response, Turkish
Foreign Minister  Ahmet Davutoglu  said on state television
yesterday.  Syria  has criticized Turkey for hosting meetings of
opposition groups, while Turkey has called for a change of
regime in its southern neighbor.  “This is a major development and we will see selling until
it becomes clear how this will be resolved and the uncertainty
is ended,” Onur Bayol, a currency and fixed-income trader at
Denizbank AS in Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  will lead a cabinet
meeting in Ankara today and the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization will meet on June 26 at Turkey’s request to discuss
the incident.  “We need to wait until Tuesday when Turkey discusses a
possible reaction with NATO allies,”  Felix Herrmann , an analyst
at DZ Bank AG in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed comments. “But for
sure, downside risks for the lira have risen.”  The lira will probably weaken to 1.89 per dollar by the end
of the year, currency forwards showed. Lira futures signal the
currency will slide to 1.85 per dollar in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  