-- Turner Winner Creed Ignores Jokes, Rings in Olympics
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-06-25T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/turner-winner-creed-ignores-jokes-rings-in-olympics-interview.html
Martin Creed  rings the buzzer of his
East London studio, a cramped space above a curry house on
bustling Brick Lane.  The 43-year-old artist -- winner of the U.K.’s 2001  Turner
Prize  -- is inviting everyone in Britain to sound a bell, any
bell, on the opening morning of the  London 2012 Olympic Games .
As there are none in his studio, he gamely demonstrates with the
downstairs doorbell.  “When I was a kid, I remember the local church sometimes
ringing its bells in a crazy cacophonous way when there was a
wedding,” says Creed in a Glasgow accent, his sentences ending
on a high note. “I always thought it was a very beautiful and
exciting sound.”  “So I thought, to try to ring all of the bells in the
whole country would be a nice thing to do on this special
occasion of the Olympics,” he says.  Creed makes art with the banal: crumpled paper, a light
switch, runners sprinting by. He likes his practice to be
tentative, from the gut. He’s currently showing a work a month
over 12 months at the  Museum of Contemporary Art Chicago . March
was nine cardboard boxes; May was a row of nails.  Solo Album  In his packed studio, two assistants stand painting the
vinyl sleeves of part-time-rocker Creed’s new solo album “Love
to You” (which is bookended by tracks titled “Ooh” and
“Aah”). Walls are dotted with mini-canvases like the ones
 Hauser & Wirth  had on sale in its 2011 Creed show.  “Better sort my hair out,” he says, running fingers
through tousled curls. He wriggles out of a sweater with an
underarm rip, and sits before the camera in a striped brown
turtleneck.  Is the three-minute bell-ringing at 8:12 a.m. on July 27
art? “It’s certainly as much art as anything else is,” says
Creed. “I don’t know what art means, because I think it’s a
magic thing. If you find something is beautiful, it’s very
difficult to know why it’s beautiful.”  “I just try to do things that make my life better,
exciting and pleasurable,” he says.  Creed is “hurt” by a U.K. bell-ringers’ group slamming
his purely voluntary initiative for its timing and duration. I
ask how an artist who calls himself “provocative” can be so
easily hurt. Surely people routinely dismiss his work as silly?  “If they said it was silly, I might not get so upset
because silliness is not necessarily a bad thing,” Creed says.
“But if someone just said it was rubbish and I was a, whatever
they call me, I do get very hurt.”  Creative Genes  Born in Wakefield, Yorkshire, Martin moved to Glasgow as a
boy. His silversmith dad -- who now does architectural ironwork
-- created a ciborium (vessel) for Pope  John Paul II ’s 1982
visit to Glasgow, and is also a musician, as is his grandmother.  Creed grew up going to galleries and concerts, and
regarding art and music as “the highest things you could do.”
After contemplating music, architecture and psychology studies,
he enrolled at London’s  Slade School of Fine Art .  His 2001 Turner Prize exhibition at  Tate Britain  was a
gallery room with lights going on and off. Seven years later, he
sent a team of sprinters through Tate Britain every 30 seconds.  Creed’s “art heroes” are Picasso, whose creations “can
be quite shocking and difficult, almost ugly,” and Warhol,
whose work “makes me laugh.” He’s particularly entertained by
“the films of people sleeping” and the Brillo box sculptures.  His new thing: “blind” paintings done without looking at
the hand. I come across a color copy of one; the fudged features
of a woman’s face are vaguely recognizable. A group of these
will be in the Chicago show.  “I have a tendency to try to control things, because I’m
scared of the unknown,” he says. “Then I end up killing them,
and I don’t like that.”  Creed doesn’t know what bell he’ll ring -- maybe a bike
bell, though his bike has no bell. It doesn’t worry him.  “I don’t like deciding what I’m going to do,” he says.  Muse highlights include Richard Vines on dining.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in  London  at 
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 