-- Mursi Begins Forming Team After Egypt Presidential Vote Win
-- B y   T a r e k   E l - T a b l a w y
-- 2012-06-25T16:55:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/mursi-begins-forming-team-after-egypt-presidential-vote-win-1-.html
Egypt’s Islamist President-elect
Mohamed Mursi began work on pulling together a team of advisors,
as the military-appointed Cabinet resigned to make way for a new
government.  The Muslim Brotherhood’s candidate, who was declared the
winner of an acrimonious runoff against  Hosni Mubarak ’s last
premier yesterday, arrived at the presidential palace complex in
Cairo’s Heliopolis district, escorted by police and the
Republican Guard, the state-run Ahram Gate reported, citing
unidentified security officials.  The 60-year-old U.S.-trained engineer inherits an office
whose powers were curbed last week by the ruling generals. He
pledged in his first speech as leader yesterday to be a
president for “all Egyptians.” Egypt needs unity “so that
this great and patient people could reap the fruits of its
sacrifices,” Mursi said, as millions took to the streets to
celebrate his win over Ahmed Shafik.  After more than 16 months of unrest, Mursi’s ascension to
the office with none of the violence many feared could erupt
gave a boost to  Egypt ’s financial markets. Still, economic
growth has slumped and a $3.2 billion International Monetary
Fund loan has yet to be approved, stalling hopes for additional
donor aid from abroad.  Stocks Rise  The benchmark EGX 30 Index closed 7.6 percent higher today
in Cairo, its biggest jump since February 2008, while yields on
the country’s benchmark 5.75 percent dollar bond plunged 66
basis points, or 0.66 of a percentage point to 7.21 -- the
biggest drop since February last year, when Mubarak was ousted.  By contrast, Egypt’s credit rating was placed on
“creditwatch negative” at Standard & Poor’s today for a
possible downgrade, with the rating company citing the
possibility of a power struggle between the military and the
Brotherhood. The country is ranked B at  Standard & Poor’s , five
levels below investment grade.  “We now believe that a protracted, and possibly volatile,
transition from the authoritarian regime deposed in January 2011
is more likely,” the rating company said in a statement.  Mursi’s task in the coming days is to form a government
that will both please his Islamist supporters and appease others
such as the revolutionary youth groups who threw their support
behind him in a bid to block Shafik.  Nobel Laureate  Among the names being floated for the premiership is that
of Nobel laureate Mohamed ElBaradei, said Mohamed el-Beltagy, a
senior official with the Brotherhood’s Freedom and Justice
Party. The group has “no objections” to ElBaradei, who headed
the U.N.’s nuclear watchdog agency and emerged as a leading
figure in the uprising against Mubarak, ElBeltagy said by phone,
adding that he was an “accomplished nationalist figure.”  El-Beltagy said talks were taking place to form a national
unity government, as outlined by Mursi on June 22. Mursi was
also due to meet leaders of the Nour Party, El-Sayed Mustafa
Khalifa, the head of the Salafi party’s bloc in the parliament
said. The FJP and Nour made up about 70 percent of the assembly
before it was disbanded before the election.  The military-appointed interim Cabinet, which repeatedly
clashed with parliament, resigned today, Information Minister
Ahmed Anis told reporters. Ministers will continue to work until
Mursi forms a new government.  The president-elect also met with Field Marshal Mohamed
Hussein Tantawi, head of the country’s ruling military council,
which has pledged to hand over power by the end of June.  Military ‘Coup’  Within hours of the polls closing on June 17, the ruling
generals boosted their authority at the expense of the
presidency, assuming legislative powers while also giving
themselves a potential role in the constitution-writing process.
Their decree also limited the president’s executive powers --
moves that enraged the Brotherhood and activists who referred to
it as a “coup.”  While Mursi’s win “marks the end of an era and some likely
stability in the short-term, the political transition period and
power struggle are still not yet over,” Jean-Michel Saliba, an
economist with Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said in a note. It
is unclear how much room for maneuver the military will grant
Mursi, “particularly when it comes to sovereign portfolios”
such as defense, finance and foreign affairs, he said.  Mursi must also deal with the court-ordered dissolution of
parliament, a step that preceded the military’s declaration of
new powers and was seen as “illegitimate” by the Brotherhood.  Youth Groups  The president-elect may put the issue to a referendum if it
is confirmed by the Supreme Administrative Court, Sobhi Saleh, a
senior official with the Brotherhood’s political party, said
today, according to the state-run Middle East  News Agency .  He may have to keep the support of youth groups, such as
the April 6 movement, which threw their weight behind his
candidacy even as they voiced concerns about the Brotherhood’s
overall objectives.  Ahmed Maher , co-founder of April 6, said Mursi must fulfil
campaign promises including naming vice presidents from a range
of backgrounds. Mursi has said his deputies may include a woman
and a Christian.  “If the Islamist movement succeeded in achieving a
democratic transformation, this will be a historic
transformation not just for Egypt, but for all the region,”
said Ashraf el-Sherif, a political scientist at the American
University in Cairo. “If, instead, we end up with an
authoritarian system with a partnership between the generals and
the Islamists, then this will have very negative implications on
all of the Arab Spring and on the democratic transformation in
the region.”  -- With assistance from Ahmed El-Sayed in Cairo. Editors: Digby Lidstone, Louis Meixler.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tarek El-Tablawy in Cairo at 
 teltablawy@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  