-- Venus Williams Says She’s Not Done After Early Wimbledon Exit
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-06-25T16:35:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/venus-williams-says-she-s-not-done-after-early-wimbledon-exit.html
Venus Williams  is suddenly setting
records for losing at Grand Slam tennis tournaments.  The 32-year-old American, a five-time Wimbledon champion,
lost her opening match at the All England Club for the first
time since her 1997 debut. Last month she failed to reach the
third round of the French Open for the first time since 2001.  Williams -- who lost to  Russia ’s Elena Vesnina 6-1, 6-3
today -- said she won’t play in any tournaments before the
Olympics, to be held on the grass courts of London this year.
She was unseeded at Wimbledon for the first time since 1997.  “I feel like I am a great player,” Williams told
reporters. “I am a great player. Unfortunately, I had a deal
with circumstances that people don’t normally have to deal with
in this sport, but I can’t be discouraged by that. I have great
tennis in me. I just need the opportunity.”  Williams, who missed the 2011  French Open , secured a berth
on the U.S. Olympic team with a first-round victory there this
year. She’s been struggling with her health, having been
diagnosed last year with Sjogren’s syndrome, an energy-sapping
immune disease.  Wimbledon 2008 was her last major title, and she hasn’t
made a final since she was runner-up a year later.  Williams’s serve, which helped her win her seven major
championships, let her down today. She got only 38 percent of
her first serves in, compared with 69 percent by Vesnina, who
had lost in the first round of nine of her last 10 Grand Slams.  Williams said she’ll rest and prepare for the London games,
and that she’s planning to play Wimbledon next year.  “There’s no way I’m just going to sit down and give up
just because I have a hard time the first five or six freakin’
tournaments back,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser at Wimbledon through the  London  newsroom +44-
  at  celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  