-- Venus Williams Exits Wimbledon on Day One, Djokovic, Federer Win
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   E l s e r
-- 2012-06-25T23:35:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/venus-williams-defeated-by-vesnina-in-wimbledon-first-round.html
Five-time champion  Venus Williams 
failed to reach the second round at Wimbledon for the first time
in 15 years, losing her opening match to Elena Vesnina.  Defending men’s champion Novak Djokovic advanced to the
second round yesterday by overcoming Juan Carlos Ferrero in
straight sets, and top-seeded woman  Maria Sharapova  defeated
Anastasia Rodionova. Six-time champion  Roger Federer  also won.  The 79th-ranked Vesnina beat Williams 6-1, 6-3 on day one
of the Grand Slam tennis tournament. The Russian had lost in the
first round in nine of her past 10 appearances at the majors.  Williams was unseeded at Wimbledon for the first time since
her 1997 debut at the All England Club in London. She’s
struggled with Sjogren’s syndrome, an energy-sapping autoimmune
disease, since last year. She lost in the  French Open  second
round last month in her first Grand Slam since her diagnosis.  “I’m just a couple of months into getting back on tour,”
Williams, a 32-year-old American, told reporters. “Life is
challenging, but I’m always up for a challenge. The tour will be
around for a few more months this year, and I will just continue
to try to improve my game.”  Defending champion Petra Kvitova of the Czech Republic
opens Centre Court play today against Akgul Amanmuradova of
Uzbekistan, before men’s No. 2 seed  Rafael Nadal  of Spain takes
on Brazil’s Thomaz Bellucci.  Sharapova of  Russia  had 23 winners and 14 unforced errors
in her 6-2, 6-3 defeat of Rodionova, an Australian.  The 25-year-old Sharapova won Wimbledon in 2004 and
completed the career Grand Slam this month by winning on the
clay courts of the French Open. That performance also returned
her to the No. 1 ranking on the women’s tour.  Clay to Grass  “To go out there after not competing for a couple weeks,
the transition from clay to grass, I thought I started off the
match really well,” Sharapova said.  Former French Open champion Li Na and U.S. Open title
holder Sam Stosur advanced with straight-set victories. Third-
seeded Agnieszka Radwanska beat Magdalena Rybarikova, while
eighth-seeded Angelique Kerber defeated Lucie Hradecka.  Four-time Grand Slam title holder  Kim Clijsters  overcame
former top-ranked Jelena Jankovic 6-2, 6-4.  The Belgian, who is playing her last season on the women’s
tour, pulled out of the semifinals of a grass-court event in the
Netherlands four days ago because of a stomach injury.  “It felt OK,” Clijsters said. “I was starting to feel
more and more comfortable as the match went on.”  China’s Li, the No. 11 seed, beat Ksenia Pervak of
Kazakhstan 6-3, 6-1. Li last year became the first Asian to win
a Grand Slam singles title when she won at  Roland Garros .  Australia’s Stosur, seeded No. 5, defeated Carla Suarez Navarro of Spain 6-1, 6-3 to reach the second round for the
first time since 2009.  Djokovic, Federer  Djokovic beat Ferrero 6-3, 6-3, 6-1 on Centre Court. The
Serb and 2003 French Open champion Ferrero had split their
earlier two matches, with the Spaniard winning when they played
on clay. Djokovic, trying to become the first man to retain the
Wimbledon title since Federer in 2007, is going for his sixth
Grand Slam championship.  Federer lost three games in easing past Spain’s Albert
Ramos 6-1, 6-1, 6-1. The Swiss is trying to equal  William
Renshaw  and  Pete Sampras ’s record of seven men’s singles titles
at the All England Club by winning his 17th Grand Slam title.  “I played a very clean match,” Federer, 30, said in a
televised interview. “It’s always nice to save energy.”  No. 6 seed Tomas Berdych of the Czech Republic, the 2010
runner-up, lost in three tiebreakers to Ernests Gulbis of  Latvia 
for his first opening-round defeat at Wimbledon since his debut
in 2004.  Alejandro Falla of Colombia upset 11th-seeded  John Isner  6-
4, 6-7 (7-9), 3-6, 7-6 (9-7), 7-5. The American had 31 aces to
Fallo’s four and his 76 winners were almost double Fallo’s.  Serbia’s Janko Tipsarevic, the eighth seed, beat  David Nalbandian , 6-4, 7-6 (7-4), 6-2. Nalbandian, from  Argentina ,
forfeited the Queen’s Club final when he kicked an advertising
sign and injured a line judge.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Elser in London at 
 celser@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  