-- Veracyte Gene Test May Limit Thyroid Cancer Surgeries
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-06-25T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/veracyte-gene-test-may-limit-thyroid-cancer-surgeries.html
A gene test made by closely held
Veracyte Inc. may determine whether cancer exists in thyroid
tumor samples that were inconclusive after biopsies, a study
found, potentially ending thousands of unnecessary surgeries.  From 15 percent to 30 percent of thyroid nodules evaluated
by fine-needle biopsies can’t clearly be defined as malignant or
benign, leading most doctors to recommend removing part or all
of the gland as a precaution, said  Erik Alexander , the lead
study author and a doctor with the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute
and Brigham and Woman’s Hospital in  Boston .  “Nobody wants surgery if they don’t need it,” Alexander
said in a telephone interview. “This test, when it returns with
a benign result, implies there is a very small risk of any
cancer.”  The test from South  San Francisco , California-based
Veracyte screens for genes expressed by thyroid tumors.
Researchers used the test on 265 indeterminate nodules, finding
it correctly identified 78 out of 85 of malignant samples, and
predicted benign results accurately in 95 percent of samples
that were “atypical of an undetermined significance” and 94
percent with “follicular neoplasm,” according to the study
funded by the company and published today by the  New England
Journal of Medicine .  About 56,500 new cases of  thyroid cancer  will be diagnosed
in the U.S. this year and about 1,780 patients will die of the
disease, according to the  National Cancer Institute .  Reduce Surgeries  Widespread use of the gene test may eliminate one-third of
the 75,000 surgeries performed in the U.S. on indeterminate
thyroid nodules, J. Larry Jameson, professor at the  University
of Pennsylvania ’s Perelman School of Medicine, wrote in an
editorial accompanying the study.  Veracyte’s test, which costs about $3,500, is covered by
Medicare and is being promoted globally by Paris-based  Sanofi (SAN) ’s
Genzyme unit.  “This is a key step forward for us,” Bonnie Anderson,
Veracyte’s co-founder and chief executive officer, said in an
interview. “The strength of this study underscores the real
value of the test.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  