-- Verizon, T-Mobile Agree Spectrum Swap Pending Cable Deal
-- B y   S c o t t   M o r i t z   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-06-25T20:32:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/verizon-t-mobile-usa-agree-to-spectrum-swap-pending-cable-deal.html
Verizon Wireless , the largest U.S.
wireless carrier, agreed to sell airwave licenses to T-Mobile
USA Inc., contingent on Verizon completing a $3.6 billion
acquisition of spectrum from cable companies.  The exchange will allow Verizon to sell T-Mobile some of
the surplus spectrum it will have in certain cities as a result
of the SpectrumCo deal, which was proposed by Verizon in
December. SpectrumCo is a joint venture of cable companies led
by  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , which forged the accord as part of a plan to
jointly market services with Verizon.  In the deal, Verizon will swap advanced wireless services,
or AWS, spectrum covering 60 million people for airwaves from T-
Mobile covering 22 million people plus an undisclosed payment.  The agreement with T-Mobile, which had opposed the
SpectrumCo deal, is the second move by Verizon to sell spectrum
pending approval of the cable airwaves purchase. In April 18, to
help ease approval by the Federal Communications Commission for
the SpectrumCo deal, Verizon agreed a sale of 700 megahertz A
and B spectrum it bought in 2008.  Verizon, based in  Basking Ridge ,  New Jersey , said today’s
deal will be used to improve coverage and features. The plan
involves “spectrum swaps that will result in better use of the
AWS band for both companies,” according to a statement.  “This is a proactive move by Verizon to improve its
position with regulators,”  Jennifer Fritzsche , an analyst with
Wells Fargo, said today in a note.  High-Speed Wireless  Neil Grace, a spokesman for the FCC, declined to comment.  The agreement “would seem to push the Verizon-cable deals
closer to completion,” Jeffrey Silva, a Washington-based
analyst with Medley Global Advisors, said in an interview.  It would remove T-Mobile as the strongest industry opponent
of Verizon’s deal with cable companies, and undermines critics’
argument that the SpectrumCo agreement would leave competing
companies without airwaves needed to serve high-speed wireless
applications, Silva said.  Verizon wasn’t forced to sell the spectrum to T-Mobile by
the FCC as a condition of the SpectrumCo approval, said Robin Nicol, a spokeswoman for the company.  “We have demonstrated that the cable spectrum deals will
serve the public interest,” she said. “This transaction with
T-Mobile strengthens that case.”  Voluntary Transactions  Verizon executives met with the FCC on June 18 to discuss
whether the agency should require the company to sell some
airwaves in return for approval of the cable deal, according to
a filing. The executives discussed the benefits of voluntary
transactions to adjust companies’ airwaves holdings, Verizon
said in the filing.  Today’s agreement doesn’t eliminate the threat of job
losses and higher customer prices in the industry, “even if
today’s announcement resolves some of the FCC’s concerns,”
Debbie Goldman, telecommunications policy director for the
 Communications Workers of America , said in an e-mailed
statement.  The union has been in contract negotiations with Verizon
since last year and has said regulators should ensure the
company doesn’t unfairly use advantages it gains from the
marketing deals.  For  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , the parent of T-Mobile, the added
spectrum would help with its expansion of its long term
evolution, or LTE, network. DT plans to boost U.S. network
spending by $1.4 billion over two years in a race to upgrade
equipment and bring faster connections to smartphones.  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , which controls the wireless
carrier, fell less than 1 percent to $43.65 at the close in New
York. The stock has gained 8.8 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Moritz in  New York  at 
 smoritz6@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  