-- Virginia Echoes Harvard as Faculty Rises Up to Rehire President
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n   a n d   J e a n n a   S m i a l e k
-- 2012-06-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/virginia-echoes-harvard-as-faculty-rises-up-to-rehire-president.html
From a hotel in San Diego, where he
was attending a family wedding,  University of Virginia  Law
Professor  George Cohen  heard about the unprecedented ouster of
President  Teresa Sullivan  after less than two years in office.  Cohen, recently installed as head of the  faculty senate ,
fired up his new iPad. Over the next week, he and his colleagues
called, e-mailed and coordinated an irate faculty, a response
that tomorrow may result in the equally unparalleled
reinstatement of Sullivan as the university’s leader.  “This was something done in a secretive way with little
warning,” Cohen said, as a president was tossed out for the
first time in the history of the university without a full vote
of the board. “There was a very strong concern about the way
this was done.”  UVA’s ruling body, largely made up of business people such
as MacDonald Caputo, advisory director at  Morgan Stanley (MS) , and
Timothy Robertson, chief executive officer at Bay Shore
Enterprises LLC, failed to recognize that the faculty would
demand a voice in its own leadership. The board and its rector,
Helen Dragas, also erred in trying to administer a collegial
environment like a corporation, professors and advocates said.  “It was shocking in the university community,” Cohen
said. “People were asking ‘Is it the opening salvo in what the
future of higher education is going to look like?’”  Cohen said he hasn’t spoken directly to Sullivan since the
crisis began.  Harvard Lessons  Such a revolt hasn’t been seen on a college campus since
the 2006 ouster of  Lawrence Summers  as president of  Harvard
University . Summers stepped down as faculty were preparing a
second no-confidence vote in objection to his autocratic work
style and comments he made suggesting that women lacked an
aptitude for science. Summers later became director of the
 National Economic Council  under President  Barack Obama . He still
teaches at Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government.  The furor at the Charlottesville-based university may
serve as a lesson to other schools trying to push through fiscal
changes amid state budget cuts and a debate over rising student
debt. Appointed boards at other schools may come under scrutiny
because of  Virginia ’s ordeal, said David Leblang, chairman of
the university’s Department of Politics.  “Higher education is not the same as an accounting firm,”
he said. “It’s a very different model.”  The  University of Virginia , founded in 1819 by  Thomas
Jefferson , has descended into chaos since Sullivan’s forced
resignation on June 10.  Campus Chaos  Since then, students have demonstrated, hurled insults at
Dragas and interim President Carl Zeithaml and spray-painted
graffiti in the famous  Rotunda  that Jefferson modeled after
Rome’s Pantheon. The turmoil was calmed only by Sullivan, who
issued a plea for restraint, reminding the university community
that civility lies at the heart of Virginia’s culture.  Governor  Bob McDonnell  ordered the 15-member board to make
a final decision on whether to keep Sullivan by tomorrow, or
he’ll demand the resignations of all of them. While he commended
aspects of Dragas’s plan to cut costs and move into online
learning -- the point of contention between her and Sullivan --
he condemned the process by which Sullivan was dispatched,
without the required two-thirds majority vote of the board.  “This was a perfect example of failed governance,” said
Richard Legon, the president of the  Association of Governing
Boards , a Washington-based group that represents 40,000
university trustees. “Boards have the legal responsibility to
make tough calls and tough decisions, but they need to be aware
that they act in the environment where there’s a larger
community.”  No Applicants  If Sullivan isn’t reinstated, the university may have a
difficult time finding a new president, said English professor
John Casey. He said he expects candidates for the job would be
scared away by the possibility of being removed in a similar
fashion.  “It looks very unstable if Dragas stays,” he said.  The events over the past two weeks highlight the
differences between Sullivan, 62, a sociologist who spent more
than three decades at public universities, and business-minded
real-estate developer Dragas.  Dragas, 50, is president and chief executive officer of
 Dragas Cos ., a Virginia Beach-based homebuilder, and was
appointed to the board in 2008 by then-Governor  Tim Kaine , a
Democrat. She was named rector, or head of the board, in 2011.
She received a bachelor’s degree from the university in 1984 and
a master’s degree in business in 1988.  Sullivan vs. Dragas  Sullivan, the university’s first female president, was
forced out by Dragas and the board, who said they were
frustrated by Sullivan’s slow approach to change. E-mails from
Dragas show the rector was concerned the school was falling
behind Harvard and the  Massachusetts Institute of Technology  in
offering online education.  Paul Tudor Jones II, CEO of Tudor Investment Corp. and one
of Virginia’s top donors, criticized Sullivan’s business acumen
in a June 17 opinion piece in the  Daily Progress  newspaper,
saying “UVA needs proactive leadership to match the pace of
change.”  Sullivan earned her undergraduate degree from  Michigan
State University  and a doctoral degree in sociology from the
 University of Chicago .  She spent 27 years at the  University of Texas , before
becoming provost at the  University of Michigan . During her
academic posts, she continued to publish, writing “The Fragile
Middle Class” in 2001 with  Elizabeth Warren , the Harvard Law
School professor now running for a U.S. Senate seat from
 Massachusetts .  Faculty Mindset  Those credentials helped fuel faculty support for her,
Cohen said, recalling a faculty senate meeting where Sullivan
mentioned she had just finished editing an academic article.  “It really struck a chord,” he said. “Here’s someone who
thinks like a faculty member.”  At  Michigan , Sullivan was popular with deans and the
faculty, said Paul Courant, who preceded her as provost at the
school in Ann Arbor.  “She was a successful university administrator who paid a
lot of attention to long term-issues that might affect the
university,” said Courant, who holds named professorships in
economics and public policy. “I always thought she was very
good at managing up, which made this event surprising to me.”  Openness, Inquiry  Sullivan has brought “a level of openness, a level of
inquiry,” to Virginia, said Robert Sweeney, senior vice
president for development and public affairs. He and other staff
members often gathered at her dining-room table to discuss
everything from UVA’s overseas presence to education philosophy.
He said she is respected for helping others collaborate, and
that is why faculty have rallied behind her.  “Our faculty has been galvanized and unified in a way that
I have never seen them,” he said.  The core issue at Virginia may have been the speed and
direction of change, as business-focused trustees have a
different sense of urgency than academics do, said Richard
Chait, a research professor at the  Harvard Graduate School of
Education  who studies college governance.  “One day Circuit City is the No. 1 electronics retailer,
and one day they’re out of business,” Chait said. “That
doesn’t happen in higher education.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York    jlorin@bloomberg.net ;
Jeanna Smialek in New York at 
 jsmialek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Kaufman at   jkaufman17@bloomberg.net  