-- Vivendi to Appeal $956 Million Verdict to Liberty Media
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-06-26T07:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/vivendi-loses-956-million-verdict-to-liberty-media.html
Vivendi SA (VIV)  said it will appeal a
$956 million verdict in a lawsuit over its 2001 purchase from
 Liberty Media Corp. (LMCA)  of its stake in USA Networks Inc.  A jury in Manhattan federal court yesterday agreed with
Liberty Media’s claim, filed in 2003, that Paris-based Vivendi
misled it about a liquidity crisis at the company, artificially
inflating the value of its shares, which it used to make the
purchase. The verdict is the largest in the U.S. this year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  In December 2001, Vivendi agreed to buy the entertainment
business of  Barry Diller ’s USA Networks for $10.3 billion. As
part of the transaction, Englewood, Colorado-based Liberty Media
received 37.6 million Vivendi shares for its stake in USA
Networks and a European television production company.  “The damage award is very gratifying,” said R. Stan Mortenson, a lawyer for Liberty Media. “More importantly,
Vivendi was told that it had done wrong.”  The jury of 12 delivered its verdict, in a trial that began
May 29, after two partial days of deliberations, according to
Mortenson. The verdict was denominated in euros, Mortenson said.
Jurors found Vivendi liable for fraud and breach of contract,
Liberty Media said in a statement.  Appeal  Vivendi, the owner of the world’s largest music and video-
game companies as well as telecommunications assets, said in a
statement yesterday that it will appeal the verdict.  The shares fell as much as 1.9 percent to 13.32 euros at
9:32 a.m. in Paris. The stock has dropped 25 percent in the past
12 months and in April touched its lowest level in nine years,
spurring pressure from investors for management to take measures
to revive the share price.  Vivendi is trying to keep customers from leaving its French
phone unit SFR for new competitor  Iliad SA (ILD) , which started
selling discounted phone packages in January. The company has
also looked at revamping its structure, though these discussions
have been kept private, people familiar with the matter have
said.  Liberty Media intends to seek prejudgment interest, which
could almost double the award, according to Mortenson. Liberty
Media owns stakes in businesses ranging from cable programmer
Starz Media LLC to the Atlanta Braves baseball team.  ‘Confident’ Liberty  “Although Liberty expects the defendants to ask the court
to set aside the verdict during this process, Liberty is
confident that the court will deny that request and that the
jury’s decision will stand,” the U.S. company said.  “Vivendi believes that there are many grounds for appeal
and continues to believe strongly that it did nothing wrong and
will continue to vigorously defend itself in any subsequent
appellant proceedings,” the French company said.  In January 2010, a different  Manhattan  jury found that
Vivendi misled shareholders about its financial well-being 57
times from 2000 to 2002. Lawyers for the investors claimed that
damages to the entire shareholders’ class totaled $9.3 billion.  In 2011, former U.S. District Judge Richard Richard Holwell
dismissed claims by holders of Vivendi’s ordinary shares. The
ruling eliminated more than 80 percent of the claimed damages in
the case, the company said at the time. The case is pending in
Manhattan federal court.  Few Trials  The shareholders’ case was one of only a handful of
securities fraud lawsuits that have gone to trial since the law
governing such cases was overhauled in 1995. At the time of the
verdict, only about six securities-fraud class actions had been
tried, out of hundreds filed, Paul Saunders, a lawyer for
Vivendi, said at the time. Most cases are settled or dismissed
by courts.  Vivendi agreed in 2003 to pay $50 million to settle U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission accusations of civil fraud,
and  Jean-Marie Messier , the company’s former chief executive
officer, agreed to pay a $1 million fine.  The case is Liberty Media Corp. v. Vivendi Universal SA,
03-cv-02175, U.S. District Court, Southern District of  New York 
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  