-- Vivendi Mum on Strategy Meeting Results on Stock Slips
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-06-25T08:42:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/vivendi-mum-on-strategy-meeting-results-on-stock-slips.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , whose management
gathered during the weekend to discuss strategy, said today it
has nothing to update investors with and will communicate its
plans “as and when appropriate.”  Shareholders and analysts had expected the annual
gathering, which had been planned to take place on the French
island of Corsica before it was moved to a location near Paris,
would shed light on how the media and telecommunications company
plans to reverse a 23 percent drop in its share price over the
past 12 months. Vivendi  slipped  2.1 percent to 13.71 euros at
10:39 a.m. on the Paris exchange.  “There might be some disappointment on a lack of dramatic
announcement from company’s internal seminar,” Saeed Baradar,
an analyst at  Societe Generale  in London, wrote in a note today.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. analysts said last week that the absence of
an announcement following the meeting may “negatively” affect
the shares.  Vivendi, which owns  Universal Music Group  and phone
operators in France, Morocco and Brazil, was set to consider
options for a reorganization and discuss the future of the
Paris-based company’s video-game unit  Activision Blizzard Inc. (ATVI) ,
people with knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.
Chief Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  is under pressure to
revive the company’s stock, which is trading near the lowest
level in nine years, and which Chairman Jean-Rene Fourtou says
is valued at a discount because of Vivendi’s holding structure.  “The supervisory and management boards gathered in Paris
this weekend for their annual two-day meeting to work on the
group’s strategic orientations,” Vivendi said in a brief
statement today. “The outcomes of this meeting are not to be
released publicly. Vivendi will communicate on its plans and the
necessary evolution of the group as and when appropriate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  