-- Weidmann Says Banking Union Must Be Connected to Fiscal Union
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2012-06-25T17:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/weidmann-says-banking-union-must-be-connected-to-fiscal-union.html
European Central Bank  Governing
Council member Jens Weidmann said the discussion about
introducing a banking union in the euro area can’t take place
without it being part of the debate on fiscal union.  “The question of a banking union is very tightly connected
to the question of the other themes we are considering, for
example a fiscal union,” Weidmann said at an event in Hamburg
today. “It makes little sense to single out the banking sector
when talking about mutualization of debt, without taking the
rest into account.”  Spanish Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy today echoed calls for
the creation of a so-called banking union, saying it should
include a joint bank-resolution fund, a common supervisor and a
euro-area deposit insurance program. Those comments precede a
meeting between European leaders later this week when they aim
to reassure markets they have a plan to solve the debt crisis.  “It’s important that a banking union doesn’t lead to euro
bonds by the back door, for example when a bank is active in
financing the government and then that bank enjoys a common debt
guarantee,” Weidmann, who heads  Germany ’s Bundesbank, said. A
banking union is a “step in the direction of common debt
liability that has to be taken very carefully,” he added.  Weidmann also played down the chances of the European
Central Bank reactivating its program of government bond
purchases, saying Governing Council members have become more
skeptical of its effectiveness.  Weidmann said any pooling of risk needs to be accompanied
by a pooling of sovereignty, and the euro area’s politicians
aren’t discussing that seriously enough.  “There’s a discussion about euro bonds, euro bills,
pooling of risk, but not about giving up sovereignty,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Black in Hamburg at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  