-- What to Look for in Court’s Historic Health-Care Ruling
-- B y   G r e g   S t o h r
-- 2012-06-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/what-to-look-for-in-court-s-historic-health-care-ruling.html
The U.S. Supreme Court is poised to
rule this week on President  Barack Obama ’s health-care overhaul,
a law that would extend insurance to at least 30 million
Americans and reshape an  industry  that makes up about 18 percent
of the country’s economy.  The decision, coming little more than four months before
the November election, will mark the first time the court has
ruled on a president’s signature legislative accomplishment in
the middle of his re-election bid.  Here’s what to expect and look for in the ruling:  Will the court rule today?  It might, though a decision later in the week is at least
as likely. The court has five decisions left to issue, including
on an  Arizona  law cracking down on illegal immigration, and the
justices will present them over two or perhaps three days. Based
on past practice, the most likely second opinion day is
Thursday, June 28. We’ll know more after the court makes its
rulings today.  How does the court release its rulings?  It announces the opinions from the bench beginning at 10
a.m., Washington time. As soon as Chief Justice  John Roberts 
says an opinion is about to be issued, court employees begin
handing out copies to reporters. That means the first word of
the health-care decision will probably come from news reports.
As with arguments, the court doesn’t permit video or live audio
coverage of its opinion announcements. The court will post a
copy of the decision on its  website  soon after it is issued.  The people in the courtroom may be among the last to know
the outcome. The justice who wrote the opinion will give a
summary -- and may not say immediately what the bottom line is.  Might the news of the decision leak out before it’s issued?  Leaks of any sort are rare at the court and leaks about
pending decisions are all but nonexistent. The justices demand
-- and get -- secrecy from their law clerks and the few court
employees who know about rulings in advance.  What are the possibilities?  There are a variety of ways the court could rule:  (1) It could uphold the entire statute, the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act.  (2) The court could strike down part of the law. This could
take several forms. It might invalidate only the requirement
that most Americans get insurance or face penalties, the so-
called individual mandate that was once championed by
Republicans as an alternative to Democratic proposals for a
single government-run health system.  More likely, based on the arguments in late-March, they
would also reject related provisions that require  insurers  to
cover people with pre-existing medical conditions and charge
them the same rates as other policyholders. The administration
as well as those challenging the law agree that rejecting the
mandate while keeping the related provisions would create a
situation in which only patients with costly health issues would
obtain insurance. That would lead to higher premiums, which
would prompt healthy policyholders to drop coverage, causing
more rate increases.  The court might also invalidate the law’s expansion of the
Medicaid program for the poor, which is intended to  provide 
coverage to about 16 million uninsured people.  (3) The court could strike down the entire law.  (4) It could decide that the challenge to the insurance
requirement by a group of 26 states and a small-business trade
organization is premature and must wait until the penalties for
failure to obtain insurance are actually imposed after the
mandate goes into effect in 2014.  Which justices are the likely swing votes?  Based on the arguments in March, the pivotal votes belong
to Roberts and Justice  Anthony Kennedy , two of the five
Republican appointees on the nine-member court. During the two-
hour session during the arguments on the insurance mandate, both
aimed the bulk of their questions at the lawyer representing the
Obama administration. At the same time, they left their likely
votes in doubt by similarly directing questions toward the
challengers to the law.  What are the central legal issues?  The fate of the insurance requirement will turn on the
court’s interpretation of three parts of the Constitution. The
first is the  commerce clause , which says Congress may “regulate
commerce with foreign nations and among the several states.”
The court has relied on the commerce clause to uphold laws such
as the 1964 Civil Rights Act.  The court previously has extended the reach of the commerce
power through the necessary-and-proper clause. That provision
says Congress may “make all laws which shall be necessary and
proper for carrying into execution” its enumerated powers.  Congress also has power under the Constitution to “lay and
collect taxes, duties, imposts and excises.” The Obama
administration says the tax clause provides a second,
independent constitutional basis for the law.  The Medicaid issue centers on the Constitution’s spending
clause, which authorizes Congress “to pay the debts and provide
for the common defence and general welfare of the  United
States .” The  Supreme Court  has said that provision lets
Congress put conditions on federal funds. The states say they
are being unlawfully coerced.  The court also will say whether a law known as the Anti-
Injunction Act makes much of the case premature. That law says
that taxes can’t be challenged until they’re assessed.  What did the lower courts say?  They were divided. Of the four federal appeals courts to
rule, two upheld the law, one declared the insurance mandate
unconstitutional and the fourth said the Anti-Injunction Act
made a court review premature.  Has there been a similar case so close to an election?  The closest parallel comes from 1935 and 1936, when a
series of high court rulings voided parts of President  Franklin Roosevelt ’s New Deal, economic programs designed to respond to
the Great Depression.  When was the last time a Supreme Court ruling was so eagerly
anticipated?  It was Dec. 12, 2000, the day the Supreme Court decided
Bush v. Gore and sealed the presidential election for  George W. Bush . As with health care, reporters crammed the court’s press
room, rows of cameras stood outside and the country sat by the
television awaiting the news.  One difference: The justices didn’t take the bench that day
to announce their ruling. At about 10 p.m. Washington time,
court employees simply handed out the opinion, and history was
made.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Stohr in Washington at 
 gstohr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  