-- When Rielle Met Johnny
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C a r l s o n
-- 2012-06-25T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/when-rielle-met-johnny.html
With the  publication of  “What Really
Happened: John Edwards, Our Daughter, and Me,”  Rielle Hunter 
enters the company of Gennifer Flowers (movies), Donna Rice
(jeans) and  Monica Lewinsky  (handbags) who try to get something
other than the obvious out of their brush with political fame.  In Hunter’s book, moxie, ambition, and self-delusion ooze
from every pore. Just as Flowers insists she wasn’t just a
lounge singer, Hunter maintains that she was more than a
videographer. She had studied Eastern philosophy in  California 
and came to  New York  to be a spiritual adviser.  Maybe that’s why she stood at the door of the Regency Hotel
in  Manhattan  in 2006 and whispered “You’re so hot” in Edwards’s
ear. When she found herself sitting on “Johnny’s” bed, she must
have exchanged the tenets of Buddha for those of the Kama Sutra,
and “the most extraordinary night of my life” ensued. Frances
Quinn Hunter, the result of subsequent encounters, is now 4
years old.  And that gives Hunter her excuse for giving up her career
in spirituality for writing: She wants her daughter, and
Edwards’s children, to have an accurate record of her place in
their father’s life.  While most of us would look for a quiet moment and a
private venue for such a delicate conversation, Hunter decided
the better venue is a book, a prime-time  ABC News special  and
multiple talk shows. The book supplements earlier documentary
evidence provided by Hunter in April 2010 in the form of  a
spread in GQ magazine  in which she tells her story posing, legs
spread and in a man’s shirt, with a bevy of stuffed animals.  Of course, Quinn could go to the transcript of the trial
and find an Edwards’s staffer testifying under oath that Edwards
called Hunter a “ crazy slut ” with expensive tastes upon learning
she was pregnant. We can only hope the record is now complete.  We already lived through Edwards’s dalliance with Hunter.
Is there any reason to relive it? There is -- if only to see how
so many were fooled by such a shallow man. Selected as the vice-
presidential candidate of a major party in 2004! Serious
candidate for president in 2008!  Father of the Year  in 2007!
Hunter accidentally reveals someone who didn’t deserve to be a
senator, much less a president.  Edwards is self-absorbed, vain, lazy and remarkably
comfortable with a lie. He spent as much time on the phone (four
hours a night) as in briefings. Of course, it showed in the
endless primping waiting to go on TV, the empty emoting over the
two Americas, the mushy reasons for running.  Close Call  Was serial sexual harasser  Herman Cain  a more preposterous
candidate than  John Edwards ? The frequently married  Newt Gingrich ? It’s a close call.  The only surprise in this book is Hunter giving full vent
to her hatred for  Elizabeth Edwards , John’s deceased wife, who
had to cope with both the return of deadly cancer and Edwards’s
affair, which she discovered little by little -- a woman
trailing Elizabeth’s husband everywhere with a camera, a secret
mobile phone answered with “Hey baby,” and unexplained absences
(Edwards once took his two youngest children to the mall so that
they could run into Rielle).  In Hunter’s telling, Elizabeth should have been fine with
all this. Instead she is a “witch on wheels” who is crazy,
venomous and unreasonable. Feeling bad that his wife’s cancer
had returned in 2007, Edwards broke up with Hunter and held a
press conference saying he would be with Elizabeth every step of
the way. Less than 24 hours later, he called Hunter.  What makes this tell-all more noxious is that Edwards is
complicit in the further humiliation of his children and his
parents. He didn’t write the book, obviously, though some parts
detailing Elizabeth’s reaction to Hunter had to come from him.
But he has helped to promote it. After Edwards’s trial (at which
he was acquitted on one count that he used campaign funds to
keep his mistress), he announced from the courthouse steps his
devotion to “my precious Quinn, whom I love more than any of you
can imagine.”  There was no such fulsome affection for his father,
stricken beside him, or his daughter Cate, who lent him dignity
every day walking into the courthouse. A couple of weeks later,
just before publicity for the book begins, Edwards takes Hunter
and his daughter to a beach house in  North Carolina  to flirt,
kiss, and play in the sand. Turns out, lying low was for trial.
Frolicking on the beach on Father’s Day weekend while his
motherless children celebrated alone -- that’s for the book.  Rielle thinks she’s the victim, Elizabeth the villain and
Johnny, who did it all for love, the hero. She expects this book
will help Edwards’s children understand and embrace her rather
than be sickened by her descriptions of all-night sex with their
father and her effort to humiliate the mother they loved. Her
book may be shelved under nonfiction, but her story is pure
fantasy.  ( Margaret Carlson  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The
opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View columns, editorials
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Turkey’s lessons for Egypt 
and the  Supreme Court ’s  ruling on Arizona’s immigration law ;
 Noah Feldman  on Justice Kennedy’s  liberal moment ; William Pesek
on  Thailand’s former prime minister ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on who
 Romney’s running mate  will be; Richard J. Carroll on modern  U.S.
presidents’ economic performances .  To contact the writer of this article:
Margaret Carlson at   mcarlson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  