-- Where the Supreme Court Went Wrong in Arizona
-- B y   J o h n   C .   E a s t m a n
-- 2012-06-25T23:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/where-the-supreme-court-went-wrong-in-arizona.html
The Supreme Court handed down a
mixed ruling on  Arizona ’s immigration law.  The court upheld by a 5-to-3 majority the lower court’s
decision barring enforcement of three provisions of the law, but
unanimously reversed the Ninth Circuit’s decision halting
enforcement of the law’s most controversial provision.  That section directs Arizona law-enforcement officers to
investigate a person’s immigration status if, during a lawful
stop, they have reasonable suspicion that the individual is in
the U.S. unlawfully. The provision, Section 2B, specifically
prevents a person’s race or ethnic background from being
considered to determine this reasonable suspicion.  As Justice  Samuel Alito  noted in his concurring opinion,
“The  United States ’ argument that 2B is pre-empted, not by any
federal statute or regulation, but simply by the Executive’s
current enforcement policy is an astounding assertion of federal
executive power that the Court rightly rejects.”  To be sure, the majority opinion, written by Justice
 Anthony Kennedy , raised some red flags indicating that Section
2B might be enforced in unconstitutional ways and therefore lead
to new constitutional challenges.  Still, the opinion serves as a road map, both for Arizona
and for other states waiting in the wings with immigration-
enforcement statutes of their own. It will enable them to
exercise their police powers in ways that help protect the lives
and property of lawful residents against an onslaught of illegal
immigration and deliberate under-enforcement of existing laws by
the federal government. That is very good news for the states.  Not Devastating  Less good, but not devastating, is the court’s decision on
three other sections of the Arizona law, known as SB 1070.
States can’t impose parallel criminal sanctions for failure to
carry the immigration papers required by federal law. They can’t
impose criminal sanctions on employees who seek work that is
illegal for them to seek. And they can’t make warrantless
arrests based on a probable cause that a person has committed an
offense subjecting him or her to removal under federal
immigration law.  These tools would have bolstered the states’ efforts and
should have been upheld, based on a proper understanding of
state sovereignty and federal pre-emption doctrine.
Nevertheless, Arizona’s success in defending Section 2B and its
success in the lower courts in defending all the other
provisions of the law leave it with ample authority to get a
handle on the collateral consequences of illegal immigration.  It is a state crime, for example, to stop to hire day
laborers (many of whom will be illegal immigrants), if doing so
impedes traffic. It is a state crime to knowingly employ illegal
immigrants. It is a state crime to transport or harbor illegal
immigrants.  Law enforcement  can impound cars used in the
transportation of illegal immigrants.  Most significantly, Arizona citizens have a cause of action
against any state or local official who fails to cooperate in
the enforcement of federal immigration law. The lower courts
didn’t hold the “anti-sanctuary city” provisions of SB 1070 to
be unconstitutional, and those provisions remain on the books
and enforceable, unaffected by the Supreme Court’s ruling.  So where did Kennedy’s majority opinion go astray? In
striking down the three provisions of the Arizona law, it bucked
a recent trend of the court with respect to its pre-emption
doctrine. There is no question that, in exercising its powers
over naturalization and immigration, Congress can expressly pre-
empt various state laws that would conflict with the federal
law. But there was no express pre-emption provision in federal
law that prohibited Arizona’s efforts.  Increasingly Suspicious  Kennedy thus had to resort to various implied pre-emption
doctrines, about which the court has grown increasingly
suspicious. Field pre-emption, for example, has in the past
recognized that when Congress so comprehensively occupies an
entire field of the law, we can infer that it intended to
displace any state authority over the subject. And “policy” pre-
emption yields the view that states can’t act if, in the court’s
judgment, they are undermining unspoken policy goals of the
congressional statutory plan.  Both doctrines require the justices to engage in the highly
speculative enterprise of what Congress might have intended by
its silence, and, as I said, the court has grown increasingly
suspicious of the very legitimacy of that enterprise.  Not so with Kennedy’s opinion, which embraces both
doctrines. Congress’s decision not to impose federal criminal
sanctions was viewed as a deliberate decision to bar states from
imposing state criminal sanctions. But, as the dissenting
justices pointed out, it is an equally plausible inference that
Congress simply wished to leave the matter of whether to impose
state criminal sanctions to the states.  Normally, any such ambiguity would be interpreted to the
benefit of the states, because in other areas of the law, the
 Supreme Court  has been pretty adamant that the displacement of
state sovereign authority can only be done with the clear and
unambiguous determination of Congress. In other words, there is
normally a presumption against pre-emption.  That presumption will no longer apply as vigorously in the
immigration context in areas where the federal government has
extensively regulated. That is unfortunate, but not
debilitating, because the states retain a good number of tools
that they can use to deal with the consequences of illegal
immigration within their borders.  (John C. Eastman is the Henry Salvatori professor of law
and community service and former dean at Chapman University
School of Law in Orange,  California . He filed an amicus brief in
support of Arizona, on behalf of the Center for Constitutional
Jurisprudence, in the Arizona v. United States case. The
opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Turkey’s lessons for Egypt 
and the Supreme Court’s  ruling on Arizona’s immigration law ;
 Margaret Carlson  on  Rielle Hunter ;  Noah Feldman  on Justice
Kennedy’s  liberal moment ; William Pesek on  Thailand’s former
prime minister ;  Ramesh Ponnuru  on who  Romney’s running mate  will
be; Richard J. Carroll on modern  U.S. presidents’ economic
performances .  To contact the writer of this article:
John C. Eastman in Orange, California, at  jeastman@chapman.edu   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  