-- Winston & Strawn, Steptoe, Proskauer: Business of Law
-- B y   W i t h   a s s i s t a n c e   f r o m   D o n   J e f f r e y
-- 2012-06-25T21:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/winston-strawn-steptoe-johnson-proskauer-business-of-law.html
Four former General Reinsurance
Corp. executives and one former  American International Group
Inc. (AIG)  executive would win dismissal of accounting fraud charges
under proposed deferred-prosecution agreements with the
government.  The  Justice Department  on June 22 filed in court five
agreements with the executives, who were convicted in 2008 of
fraud for helping to deceive AIG investors through a sham
transaction in 2000 and 2001.  While they were originally sentenced to prison terms of as
much as four years, an appeals court overturned the convictions
and ordered a new trial in Hartford,  Connecticut .  U.S. District Judge Vanessa Bryant must now approve the
agreements covering former General Re Chief Executive Officer
Ronald Ferguson, ex-Chief Financial Officer Elizabeth Monrad,
ex-Senior Vice President Christopher Garand, ex-Assistant
General Counsel Robert Graham, and former AIG Vice President
Christian Milton. Prosecutors agreed to drop the case in a year
if the executives abide by the accords and follow the law.  Each executive would acknowledge that “aspects” of the
transaction were fraudulent, that they disregarded red flags
suggesting the deal would be “improperly accounted for,” and
that they “should have attempted to stop it from going forward,
but instead continued to participate in it,” according to the
agreements filed in federal court in Hartford.  Dan K. Webb of Winston & Strawn LLP, Douglas Koff of Paul
Hastings LLP and Alfred Pavlis of Stamford, Connecticut’s Finn
Dixon & Herling LLP represent Ferguson.  Reid Weingarten , Erik L. Kitchen and Bruce C. Bishop of
Steptoe & Johnson LLP and Jonathan J. Einhorn of New Haven
represent Monrad.  Robert Cleary and William Komaroff of Proskauer Rose LLP
and Richard R. Brown of Brown Paindiris & Scott LLP in Hartford
represent Garand. Alan Vinegrad of Covington & Burling LLP and
William F. Dow III of New Haven’s Jacobs & Dow LLC represent
Graham.  Thomas Green, Mark D. Hopson and Kristin Graham Koehler of
Sidley Austin LLP and Richard A. Reeve of New Haven’s Sheehan &
Reeve represent Milton.  “Mr. Garand has always adamantly maintained his innocence
and that he acted in the utmost good faith,” his attorney,
 Robert Cleary , said in a phone interview with Bloomberg’s David
Voreacos. “As Mr. Garand now looks to restore his good name and
claim back his reputation, I would like to thank the  Department
of Justice  for having the professionalism to recognize that this
was a fatally flawed prosecution.”  Attorneys for the other defendants didn’t immediately
return calls or e-mails seeking comment.  The case is U.S. v. Ferguson, 3:06-cr-00137, U.S. District
Court, District of Connecticut (Hartford).  For more, click here.  Lawsuit News  HP Investor’s Suit Targeting Hurd’s Severance Package Thrown Out  A judge threw out a  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  investor’s lawsuit
challenging a $40 million severance payment to former Chief
Executive Officer  Mark Hurd  after finding it didn’t amount to a
waste of corporate assets.  Delaware Chancery Court Judge Donald Parsons in Wilmington
on June 21 concluded that Hewlett-Packard’s board made a good-
faith decision to honor Hurd’s severance agreement after he quit
in 2010 amid allegations that he had an inappropriate
relationship with a company contractor. Hurd, 55, is now co-
president of software maker  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)   “Without question, the amount of Hurd’s severance may
appear extremely rich or altogether distasteful to some,”
Parsons said in a 30-page ruling. Still, the directors’ decision
was a “valid exercise” of business judgment, the judge said.  Hurd resigned as HP’s  chairman  and CEO in August 2010 after
an internal investigation of a sexual harassment-allegation made
by Jodie Fisher, a company contractor, found that he violated
the company’s business-conduct standards. HP officials said they
didn’t find that Hurd had violated the computer maker’s
harassment policy.  Shelby Watts, a spokeswoman for Palo Alto, California-based
Hewlett-Packard, didn’t immediately return a call seeking
comment on the judge’s decision.  The case is Zucker v. Andreessen, CA6014, Delaware Chancery
Court (Wilmington).  Apple E-Books Price-Fixing Antitrust Suit Set for Trial in 2013  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and book publishers that haven’t settled e-book
price-fixing claims will face trial next year in a case filed by
the U.S. Justice Department, a federal judge in New York
decided.  The U.S. joined 15 states and Puerto Rico in claiming
Apple,  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s  Simon & Schuster , Lagardère SCA’s Hachette
Book Group,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s HarperCollins, Macmillan and Penguin
colluded to fix prices of e-books. U.S. District Judge Denise Cote, who is presiding over the consolidated lawsuits in federal
court in Manhattan, set the trial for June 3, 2013.  “Several parties, Apple and DOJ are pushing for a fast
trial, as fast as can be accomplished that is consistent with
justice,” Cote said June 22 as she set the nonjury trial with
Apple and other defendants that haven’t settled.  U.S. antitrust officials have stepped up enforcement
against anticompetitive price-fixing agreements in industries
including health care and auto parts. Regulators have also
increased scrutiny of Cupertino, California-based Apple’s
digital publishing, mobile computing and music retail businesses
to make sure the iPad maker hasn’t thwarted competition on its
way to becoming the world’s most valuable company.  Three e-book publishers named in the U.S. government’s
antitrust lawsuit, Simon & Schuster, Hachette Book Group and
HarperCollins, settled their cases after the complaint was filed
April 11.  A group of 15 states and Puerto Rico filed a similar
lawsuit. Connecticut Assistant Attorney General  Gary Becker  told
Cote on June 22 that a settlement with the three publishers and
all 50 states would be agreed to by Aug. 10.  Shepard Goldfein, a partner at Skadden Arps Slate Meagher &
Flom LLP who represents  Harper Collins , told Cote that he was
confident the accords with the states would “get done.”  Pearson Plc (PSON) ’s Penguin unit and Macmillan, a unit of
Verlagsgruppe Georg von Holtzbrinck GmbH, continue to fight the
lawsuit.  The case is U.S. v. Apple, 12-cv-02826, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Merrill Lynch Said to Replace Reed Smith for Broker Suits  Merrill Lynch hired  Morgan Lewis  & Bockius LLP to represent
the firm in litigation with former brokers over deferred
compensation. According to Reuters, the Bank of America Corp.
unit changed counsel because of an April arbitration in which
two brokers were awarded $10.2 million.  Reed Smith  LLP had represented the firm in the cases, and
after the April 3 award, moved to have it vacated. One of the
claims was that the chair of the panel showed “evident
partiality.”  According to a May 23 filing, partner Douglas Spaulding
discovered in his files a website page printed out before the
arbitration began that indicated that the chair of the panel was
married to a lawyer who had sued Merrill.  Spaulding “no recollection of accessing this information
or reviewing it prior to the hearing,” according to the filing.
“Further, he did not come across the pages printed from the
website contained in his file until he reviewed the file after”
the April award had been made.  Bill Halldin , a Merrill spokesman, confirmed in a telephone
interview that “we have hired Morgan Lewis to represent us in
some of the arbitrations.”  “Reed Smith is continuing to represent Merrill in other
cases,” he said.  Spaulding didn’t respond to an e-mail seeking comment.
Spokesmen for Morgan Lewis and Reed Smith didn’t return calls
seeking comment.  The case is Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc. v.
Smolchek, 12-cv-80355, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
Florida (West Palm Beach).  Black Keys Rock Duo Sues Pizza Hut, Home Depot Over Songs  The Black Keys  sued  Home Depot Inc. (HD)  and  Yum Brands Inc. (YUM) ’s
 Pizza Hut , alleging the companies used the rock duo’s songs in
commercials without authorization.  Patrick Carney and Daniel Auerbach, known as the Black
Keys, sued Home Depot for the unauthorized use of “Lonely
Boy,” and sued Pizza Hut and its advertising company,
Interpublic Group of Cos., over “Gold on the Ceiling,” in
separate filings June 21 in federal court in Los Angeles.  The group said Pizza Hut and its ad agency created a
commercial for a product called Cheesy Bites Pizza that
“prominently features significant portions” of “Gold on the
Ceiling.” Home Depot ran a commercial for its Ryobi brand of
power tools that uses parts of “Lonely Boy,” the band said.  The use of the songs was “a brazen and improper effort to
capitalize on plaintiffs’ hard-earned success,” lawyers for the
Black Keys said in the complaints.  “We haven’t seen the complaint but we take intellectual
property very seriously,” Stephen Holmes, a spokesman for
Atlanta-based Home Depot, said in a telephone interview.  Chris Fuller, a spokesman for Louisville, Kentucky-based
Yum Brands, referred a request for comment to Pizza Hut’s ad
firm, the Martin Agency, a unit of Interpublic. Dean Jarrett of
Richmond, Virginia-based Martin had no immediate comment. Tom Cunningham, a spokesman for New York-based Interpublic, didn’t
immediately return messages seeking comment.  The band said in the lawsuits that letters were sent to
Pizza Hut and Home Depot in May requesting that they stop
showing the ads with the music.  Also suing the companies is co-writer Brian Burton, known
professionally as Danger Mouse. The plaintiffs asked for jury
trials of the copyright-infringement suits.  Partner Russell Frackman and associate  Christina
Djordjevich  of the Los Angeles office of Mitchell Silberberg &
Knupp LLP represent the plaintiffs in the action.  The cases are Auerbach v. Pizza Hut, 12-05385, and Auerbach
v. Home Depot, 2:12-cv-05386, U.S. District Court, Central
District of California (Los Angeles).  MF Parent Creditors to Hire Bienenstock at Proskauer Law Firm  Creditors of  MF Global Holdings Ltd. (MFGLQ) , bankrupt parent of
the brokerage MF Global Inc., asked a judge to let them hire
Proskauer Rose LLP, where their former lawyer  Martin Bienenstock 
moved after Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP failed.  Bienenstock charges $1,000 an hour for his work, according
to the June 22 filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in Manhattan.  The MF Global’s trustee set a deadline for creditors to
file proofs of claim by Aug. 22 at 5 p.m., giving government
creditors a deadline of Aug. 29, according to a filing.  Law Schools  Massachusetts Law School to Freeze Tuition for Three Years  The University of Massachusetts School of Law  last week
announced that it would freeze tuition and mandatory law school-
related fees for the next three years at current levels.  Full-time students who are state residents pay about
$23,000 per year for tuition and fees. The average tuition at
public law schools for in-state students was $22,116, according
to statistics from the  American Bar Association . The average
tuition for private law schools for the past academic year was
$39,184.  The law school was established two years ago and this month
received its provisional accreditation from the ABA, the first
step in full accreditation.  “We work very hard to manage the cost for the students,”
John Hoey, the university’s assistant chancellor for public
affairs, said in an interview. “We are about affordability and
access and enrolling a diverse group of students.”  No cuts will be needed to offset the tuition freeze because
the university plans to grow, he said.  Earlier this month, the university appointed  Mary Lu Bilek ,
an associate dean at CUNY School of Law, as its new dean. In a
telephone interview, Bilek said that the tuition freeze will
“make it easier for students to come to school and get in on
the ground floor of an accredited law school.”  Moves  Hershey Names Leslie M. Turner General Counsel  Hershey Co. (HSY) , the Pennsylvania chocolate maker, has named
Leslie M. Turner general counsel.  Turner will lead Hershey’s legal, government relations,
corporate security and corporate secretary functions, reporting
to Chief Executive Officer John P. Bilbrey.  Turner joins Hershey with 25 years of legal experience.
Most recently, she served as chief legal officer, Coca-Cola
 North America , a position she has held since 2008, according to
a company statement. In that position, she was responsible for
leading the protection of Coca-Cola’s brands, reputation,
resources and people by promoting governance in all company-
related decision making.  Before Coca-Cola North America, Turner served as associate
general counsel for The Coca-Cola Company’s Bottling Investments
Group. She was previously a partner in the Washington office of
Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP.  Turner is a member of Georgia Appleseed’s board of
directors,  Georgetown University Law Center ’s board of visitors,
and a trustee of the Washington Lawyers’ Committee for Civil
Rights and Urban Affairs.  Law Firm News  DLA Piper Assisting New York Charter School Incubator  DLA Piper LLP will host a gathering for lawyers interested
in getting involved in the establishment of charter schools in
 New York City  on July 17.  The event, the second hosted by the firm, is part of the
firm’s focus on education as part of its pro bono efforts,
partner Jamie Knox said.  Corporate work “often doesn’t easily translate to pro
bono,” Knox said. “But when a firm has a recurring focus, you
can build up some experience so you have something to contribute
over and above being a lawyer.”  DLA Piper got involved when a former colleague who was with
the  New York Charter School Incubator  asked Knox and firm
partner Sidney Burke for help with schools that hadn’t yet
opened. Knox has helped a charter school that will open next
year and said Burke worked with one that opened in 2011. 