-- Drug Suspects Kill Three Police in Mexico City’s Airport
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-06-25T18:13:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/two-federal-police-shot-dead-in-mexico-city-airport-terminal-1-.html
Three federal police officers died
in a firefight in Mexico City’s international airport after they
tried to detain drug trafficking suspects, authorities said.  The shootout took place this morning near the food court of
airport Terminal 2, according to an e-mailed statement from the
federal police. Two of the officers were killed at the scene,
while the third died of his wounds in a hospital.  Assailants with suspected links to drug traffickers opened
fire after the police officers surrounded them, the Public
Security Ministry said in a separate statement. Witnesses told
Milenio TV that the assailants were dressed in police uniforms
themselves. The Public Security Ministry didn’t say how many
people were involved in the attack.  More than 47,000 people have died in drug-related violence
since President  Felipe Calderon  ordered troops to fight
organized crime groups in December 2006. The shootout caused
panic among morning passengers, although no flights were
canceled or delayed.  “This situation is not affecting in any way the airport’s
operations or services,” the Transportation Ministry said in a
statement. “Commuters can arrive as usual to the airport.”  Mexico City’s airport is a major transit point for South
American cocaine being smuggled into the U.S. The federal police
seized more than 200 kilograms of the narcotic at the airport so
far this year, compared with 90 kilograms last year, the Public
Security Ministry said.  The assailants may have been members themselves of the
federal police force, Mexican newspaper El Universal reported,
citing officials within the police department it didn’t
identify.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 