-- Two LulzSec Members Plead Guilty to Sony, CIA Hacking
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-06-25T15:49:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/two-lulzsec-members-plead-guilty-to-sony-cia-hacking.html
Ryan Cleary and another member of
the LulzSec “hacktivist” group, pleaded guilty to disrupting
websites at  Sony Corp. (6758) , the Central Intelligence Agency and  News
Corp. (NWSA)  while denying they illegally posted confidential data.  Cleary, 20, pleaded guilty to six of eight charges filed by
London prosecutors at a hearing today.  Jake Davis , another
LulzSec member, pleaded guilty to two of four charges. They also
admitted to attacking websites that belonged to Westboro Baptist
Church in  Kansas , the online role-playing game Eve Online, and
Britain’s Serious Organised Crime Agency.  Cleary, from Wickford,  England , also admitted to installing
or altering files on Pentagon computers operated by the U.S. Air
Force and constructing a network of computers, known as a
botnet, which could perform distributed denial of service
attacks and of directing it to target websites operated by a
U.K. web hosting site. Denial-of-service attacks flood computer
networks with requests for information until they shut down.  Two other defendants, Ryan Ackroyd, 25, and a 17-year-old
man who can’t be identified for legal reasons, pleaded not
guilty to four charges. They denied attacking websites and to
illegally acquiring and posting confidential information to
websites including LulzSec.com and Pirate Bay.  Judge Alistair McCreath said a trial, to last as long as
eight weeks, should begin in April. The Westboro Baptist Church
has staged anti-homosexual demonstrations at military funerals.  Cleary, who was first arrested in June, has been in jail
since March 6 when he was detained for violating his bail terms
by talking to a hacker known as Sabu four times on an Internet
chat room using a mobile phone.  Sabu is Hector Xavier Monsegur, a member of Anonymous,
Internet Feds and LulzSec, and an informant for the U.S. Federal
Bureau of Investigation. Monsegur, who pleaded guilty to U.S.
charges in August, told Cleary that he hadn’t been arrested and
wasn’t under investigation.  Davis, a 19-year-old from the Shetland Islands in  Scotland .
used the name Topiary online and acted as LulzSec’s spokesman.
Ackroyd, 25, and the 17-year-old suspect were arrested and
charged in March.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  