-- Yahoo Japan Shares Fall on E-Mail Privacy Inquiry: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a   a n d   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-06-25T06:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/yahoo-japan-falls-on-report-of-e-mail-privacy-probe-tokyo-mover.html
Yahoo Japan  Corp. fell the most in
three weeks in  Tokyo  trading as the government said it will
question the company about plans to display advertisements based
on the contents of users’ e-mail messages.  Japan ’s largest Internet company by market value  fell  1.5
percent, the biggest decline since June 1, to 24,870 yen at the
close on the Tokyo Stock Exchange. The benchmark Nikkei 225
Stock Average fell 0.7 percent.  Yahoo Japan will start using a program in August that
automatically detects key words in e-mails, said Asuka Isayama,
a spokeswoman for the Tokyo-based web-portal operator. The
Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications plans to ask
Yahoo Japan about the service, said Noriyuki Morisato, a deputy
director at the telecommunications consumer policy division,
confirming an earlier report by the Yomiuri newspaper.  “We’ve been notifying users of our plan to introduce the
service since the end of May, and we will also offer an option
to opt out,” Yahoo Japan’s Isayama said. “So we don’t think
there’s a problem.”  Morisato declined to comment on whether the service
violates privacy laws.  Incoming e-mails from senders not using Yahoo would also be
subject to scanning, Isayama said. The company’s e-mail service
has about 15 million users in Japan, she said.  “There won’t be any impact on Yahoo’s earnings” from a
potential government probe, said  Eiji Maeda , a senior analyst at
SMBC Nikko Securities Inc. in Tokyo. “Still, the market is
taking the news as negative.”  Softbank Corp. (9984) , Japan’s third-biggest mobile-phone company,
owns about 42 percent of Yahoo Japan, while  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  owns
about 35 percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in Tokyo at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net ;
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  