-- Yankees Beat Mets as Dickey Allows First Earned Runs in a Month
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-06-25T04:50:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/yankees-beat-mets-6-5-as-dickey-falters-in-final-game-of-series.html
The  New York Yankees  defeated the
 New York  Mets 6-5 as knuckleball pitcher R.A. Dickey struggled
with his control and allowed his first earned runs in more than
a month.  Dickey, who entered the game with a Major League Baseball-
best 11 wins and was coming off consecutive one-hitters, gave up
five runs over six innings last night at Citi Field in New York.
His streak of 44 2/3 consecutive innings without allowing an
earned run ended when the Yankees scored four third-inning runs,
with three coming on a home run by  Nick Swisher .  “I didn’t have a great knuckleball, it was just coming out
wobbly a little bit,” Dickey said in the Mets’ clubhouse.  Dickey still hasn’t taken a loss since April 18, as the
Mets rallied to tie the game 5-5 against the Yankees’ CC Sabathia before relief pitcher Miguel Batista gave up a solo
home run to  Robinson Cano  in the top of the eighth inning.  The Yankees won the final two games of the interleague
series after losing the opener.  “He didn’t have the command he’s had all year long,” Mets
manager Terry Collins said of Dickey at his post-game news
conference. “Behind in the count, that’s certainly something he
hasn’t done in a long time. I’m certainly surprised. But it
happens.”  Dickey trailed 5-1 before the Mets scored one run in the
fifth inning and three more in the sixth against Sabathia to tie
the score. Sabathia allowed nine hits over 5 2/3 innings, his
shortest outing of the season.  Dickey, meantime, allowed an earned run for the first time
since May 22 against the Pittsburgh Pirates.  After going 6-0 with a 0.18 earned run average over his
previous six starts, Dickey gave up a bases-loaded sacrifice fly
to  Mark Teixeira  in the bottom of the third and Swisher followed
by drilling a homer over the right-centerfield wall. It was the
first homer allowed in 70 innings by Dickey, who also issued
three walks and threw his first wild pitch of the season.  “All good things come to an end or they wouldn’t end,
right?” Dickey said. “It’s time to begin another streak.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  