-- Zuckerman Says Boston Properties ‘Interested’ in London
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-06-25T19:45:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-06-25/zuckerman-says-boston-properties-interested-in-london.html
Boston Properties Inc. (BXP) , after trying
unsuccessfully to buy a London building, continues to want real
estate in the city, Chairman  Mort Zuckerman  said.  “We’re still interested in the London market but we’re
much more concentrated, as always, here in the United States, in
a very, very select group of markets, which are doing well,”
Zuckerman said today on Bloomberg Television’s “Market
Markers” with  Stephanie Ruhle  and  Erik Schatzker .  The Boston-based company, which is the largest U.S. office
real estate investment trust by stock-market value, has looked
at buildings in London without completing a purchase, President
Doug Linde said in a May 2 earnings conference call. It had been
in talks with private-equity firm Evans Randall to buy the
292,500-square-foot (27,174-square-meter) Drapers Gardens for
about $450 million, Dow Jones Newswires reported on May 15,
citing a person familiar with the matter who it didn’t name.  Zuckerman said today that a recent deal in London fell
apart because of “a technical issue.”  “We had actually signed an agreement to buy a particular
property, but when we got to the closing it turned out the owner
didn’t own the property -- or it didn’t own a 100 percent of the
property, which is what we had bargained for,” Zuckerman said.
He didn’t name the property or owner.  Zuckerman’s company owned or had stakes in 153 properties
with 43.4 million rentable square feet, including eight
properties under construction, as of March 31, it said in its
latest quarterly filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. The buildings are mostly in the  New York , Boston,
 San Francisco , Washington and Princeton, New Jersey, areas.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  