-- Abu Dhabi Oil Rises; New High for Brent-Dubai Spread: Asia Crude
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-08-16T10:03:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/abu-dhabi-oil-rises-new-high-for-brent-dubai-spread-asia-crude.html
Premiums for Abu Dhabi crudes rose
for the first time during August. Brent’s premium to Dubai, the
Mideast marker grade, widened for a second day to the highest
level in more than nine months.  Abu Dhabi’s Murban and Lower Zakum crudes increased by 6
cents to premiums of 7 cents and 5 cents, respectively, over
their official selling prices. Umm Shaif rose 7 cents to 5 cents
above its OSP.  The October Brent-Dubai exchange for swaps, which measures
European oil’s premium to the Mideast marker, rose 40 cents to
$5.55 a barrel, the highest since Nov. 8, according to data from
PVM Oil Associates Ltd., a London-based broker. It was the
second day of gains. The November EFS gained 30 cents to $4.19.  Emirates National Oil Co. Ltd., Dubai’s government-owned
refiner, sold about 1 million barrels of Saharan Blend crude to
Hindustan Petroleum Corp.,  India ’s third-largest state refiner,
said two traders who asked not to be identified because the
information is confidential.  Profits from refining a barrel of benchmark Dubai crude
into fuels such as diesel and gasoline priced in the regional
trading hub of Singapore averaged $6.73 during the last five
days, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The 30-day
average is $5.43, the highest since March.  Dubai crude’s  backwardation , when the price for near-term
deliveries is greater than later supplies, rose 6 cents. Spot
prices were 93 cents a barrel more than October levels,
according to data from PVM.  Oman oil for October rose $2.08 to settle at $111.71 a
barrel at 12:30 p.m. on the Dubai Mercantile Exchange.  Trafigura Beheer BV bought the only Dubai partial cargo
sold today, according to a survey of market participants who
monitor the Platts pricing window. The trading company paid SK
Innovation Co. $111.20 a barrel for one 25,000 barrel lot.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in  Singapore  at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  