-- Accused Aurora Shooter in Court as Records Discussed
-- B y   J e f f   K a s s
-- 2012-08-16T22:11:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/accused-aurora-shooter-in-court-as-records-discussed.html
James Holmes, the man accused of a
shooting at a  Colorado  movie theater that left 12 people dead
and dozens injured, appeared in court as lawyers discussed how
to contact victims and alert them to $4 million in donations.  Holmes allegedly opened fire on the audience at a midnight
screening of “The Dark Knight Rises” in Aurora on July 20,
killing 12 and injuring at least 58. Holmes, with dyed orange
hair and wearing handcuffs and a red prison uniform, sat today
with his lawyers, Daniel King and Tamara Brady. He didn’t
address the court during the hearing in Centennial, Colorado.  Holmes is charged with 24 counts of first-degree murder and
116 counts of attempted murder. First-degree murder is
punishable by death or life in prison under Colorado law.  Judge William Sylvester agreed to let the Arapahoe County
district attorney’s office ask victims whether they wished to
have their contact information given to the  Colorado
Organization for Victim Assistance , which would then see whether
they wanted financial assistance.  Stephen Zweck, a representative of the  University of
Colorado , where Holmes was a student, delivered 100 pages of
educational records to the court. Sylvester scheduled a hearing
for Aug. 23 to hear arguments on whether the documents can be
fully reviewed by the judge and prosecutors.  Another hearing was set for Aug. 30 to discuss whether
Holmes’s correspondence with psychiatrist Lynne Fenton was
privileged. Defense lawyers have said Holmes saw Fenton, medical
director of the student mental health service at the University
of Colorado Denver, according to court papers.  The case is People v. Holmes, 12-cr-01522, 18th Judicial
District Court, Colorado (Centennial).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Kass in Colorado District Court in Centennial at
 kassj@msn.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net 
STOCO1 US <Equity> CN 