-- Madoff Trustee Defends $2.4 Billion Payment to Customers
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-08-16T17:41:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/madoff-trustee-defends-2-4-billion-payment-to-customers.html
Irving Picard , the trustee
liquidating Bernard L. Madoff’s bankrupt brokerage, asked a
judge to reject customer objections to a second payment, saying
their arguments would cut the payout by $1 billion.  The Madoff trustee, who has so far paid the confidence
man’s customers $333 million from a fund set up to compensate
them for losses, said last month a second payment might be as
large as $2.4 billion. Prices of Madoff claims rose in
anticipation of the announcement to 65 cents on the dollar or
more from the low 60s, according to  Joseph Sarachek , managing
director of claims trading at CRT Capital Group LLC, which buys
and sells distressed debt.  Some customers objected because they are fighting in court
for 9 percent interest as well as return of lost principal, with
the interest representing so-called time-based damages for the
December 2008 loss of their money when the  Ponzi scheme 
collapsed.  Picard, who says the law governing brokerage liquidations
doesn’t support interest payments on money lost in the Ponzi
scheme, has said he will keep 3 percent reserves pending a court
ruling on the issue.  “Even if the trustee’s position with respect to time-based
damages was somehow mistaken, an interest rate of 9 percent is
not appropriate because it no longer has any relation to normal
 interest rates  in the commercial world,” he said in a filing in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan .  $1 Billion  According to Picard, he would have to hold back around
$1 billion to pay the 6 percentage-point difference between
reserves of 3 percent and 9 percent. If that happens, and the
payout is less than anticipated, Madoff claim prices “will
likely plummet,” Sarachek said.  Court challenges had been tying up the majority of the
$9 billion that Picard has raised since Madoff’s 2008 arrest,
mostly through settlements.  In June, money was freed up when a former Madoff customer,
Adele Fox, dropped her challenge to the Jeffry Picower estate’s
forfeiture of $5 billion to Madoff’s estate and more than $2
billion to the U.S., and the U.S. Supreme Court refused to hear
a challenge to Picard’s payment formula.  Picard has $7.3 billion available to put into the fund for
Madoff customer payments, according to his website. He has so
far approved $7.5 billion of claims meriting payment, it says.
In all, customers who filed claims lost around $17.3 billion of
principal, he has said.  Picower Money  Part of the $5 billion received from Picower’s estate would
be used for the second payment, Picard said last month. In a
lawsuit, Picard accused the deceased Picower, among Madoff’s
largest investors, of knowing of the fraud.  Picard has charged more than $300 million for his firm’s
Madoff work. Madoff is serving a 150-year prison sentence.  The Madoff brokerage liquidation case is Securities
Investor Protection Corp. v. Bernard L. Madoff Investment
Securities LLC, 08-01789,  U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Southern
District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York
at   lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  