-- Thai Growth May Quicken as Yingluck Spending Counters Europe
-- B y   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-08-17T03:45:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/thai-growth-seen-recovering-as-yingluck-spending-counters-europe.html
Thailand’s growth probably
accelerated last quarter as Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra
boosted government stimulus, spurring domestic demand as the
weakening global economy clouded the outlook for exports.  Gross domestic product rose 3.1 percent in the three months
through June from a year earlier, which would be the fastest
pace of expansion since last year’s floods, according to a
Bloomberg News survey of 16 economists. The economy grew 2
percent from the previous quarter, a separate survey showed. The
data is scheduled to be released on Aug. 20.  Southeast Asian nations from  Indonesia  to  Malaysia  have cut
 interest rates  or increased public spending to shore up local
demand as  Europe ’s debt crisis and a faltering U.S. recovery
curb exports. Yingluck, who marked her first year in office this
month, has shelved politically contentious legislation to focus
more on the economy as Thailand confronts overseas risks after
recovering from the worst floods in almost 70 years in 2011.  “The government’s fiscal measures have boosted growth,
which in turn feeds into domestic demand -- consumption and
private investment,” said Leslie Tang, an economist in
 Singapore  at OSK-DMG. “The biggest risks ahead are external
headwinds and a slow disbursement of the fiscal measures that
could slow the recovery and rebuilding of the Thai economy.”  The baht was little changed against the dollar as of 10:41
a.m. in Bangkok, having lost more than 5 percent over the past
12 months. The benchmark Stock Exchange of  Thailand  Index gained
0.2 percent.  Supporting Growth  The Bank of Thailand kept its  policy rate  at 3 percent for
a fourth meeting last month, and cut its expansion forecast for
the year to 5.7 percent from 6 percent. It reduced its export
growth estimate to 7 percent from 8.3 percent and said  inflation 
will be 2.9 percent from an earlier prediction of 3.3 percent.  There is room to adjust monetary policy to support economic
growth if needed, and the central bank is ready to do more, it
said at the time. Two members of the seven-member monetary
policy committee voted for a 25 basis-point cut.  Finance Minister Kittiratt Na-Ranong said last week he’d
like to see the baht weaken slightly to help exporters and the
benchmark rate should be 2.5 percent as inflation is manageable.  “I expect BoT to remain on hold should growth hold up and
inflation remain benign,” Tang said. “But I think the central
bank is under pressure from the government to give the economy
that extra boost via monetary loosening.”  Members of the central bank’s board and monetary policy
committee met yesterday to resolve differences after the Bank of
Thailand’s new Chairman Virabongsa Ramangkura said last week
inflation targeting is inappropriate and monetary policy
shouldn’t be used to deal with price pressures. The central bank
has used targets for price gains since 2000.  Effective Policy  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said today inflation
targeting remains an effective stance for Thailand, and the
central bank also looks at economic growth and foreign exchange
when determining monetary policy.  “As of now, there is no better option than inflation
targeting,” Prasarn told reporters, even as some board members
have different views and question its effectiveness.  Thai  exports  fell 4.2 percent in June from a year earlier,
the fourth decline in six months. In the first half of the year,
electronics shipments dropped 2 percent, while auto products
surged 17 percent, the Commerce Ministry said last month.  Toyota Motor Corp. has had record local sales this year as
supply constraints eased and the Thai government offered as much
as 100,000 baht ($3,170) in tax savings for first-time buyers.  Record Sales  Thai auto  sales  rose 76 percent in June, while production
jumped 34 percent to 205,600 units, the highest level in 50
years, according to the Federation of Thai Industries. Output
may rise 51 percent in 2012 to a record 2.2 million units, the
Thai Automotive Club, a trade group, said in June.  Other exporters remain wary. Delta Electronics (Thailand)
Pcl has cut its investment for the year by 40 percent and the
chief executive officer of Hana Microelectronics Pcl, which
makes parts for Apple Inc.’s iPhone, said any increase in sales
will be an “achievement.”  “A number of our customers are becoming cautious due to
the concerns over Europe, the U.S. and, of course,  China ,”
Richard Han said. “We are not as optimistic as we were 3-4
months ago.”  The government has extended tax exemptions for flood-hit
companies to end-2012 after they expired in June. The ruling
party last month delayed consideration of constitutional
amendments and bills that may provide amnesty for former prime
minister  Thaksin Shinawatra , as it focuses on the economy.  The worst of the impact of the European crisis on Thailand
“may have not started or have just started,” Deputy Central
Bank Governor Suchada Kirakul said in an interview last week.
“Up to now we have seen the impact on exports. If it prolongs,
it could pass through to production, income and expenditure and
the domestic side. That will be the real impact.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  