-- AIG Falls Short of Goldman Standard on Diversity Data
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-08-16T21:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/aig-falls-short-of-goldman-standard-on-diversity-data.html
American International Group Inc. (AIG) ,
the bailed-out insurer, rebuffed a request from New York
Comptroller  John Liu  to release workforce-diversity data that
was made public by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  MetLife Inc. (MET)   AIG hasn’t joined other companies among the city’s largest
financial firms in providing access to information on female and
minority employment,  Michael Garland , Liu’s executive director
for corporate governance, said in an interview yesterday.
Goldman Sachs and MetLife, the biggest U.S. life insurer,  agreed 
in April to publicly release employment information that is
required to be prepared for the federal government.  “We try to get to a place where the company recognizes it
is in their self interest and the interest of shareholders to
take the next step, and that’s why companies agree,” Garland
said. “AIG apparently is not there yet.”  The insurer “has engaged in discussions with the
comptroller’s office,” said Jim Ankner, a company spokesman.
“AIG is very committed to diversity.”  Matt Anderson , a
spokesman for AIG’s majority owner, the U.S. Treasury
Department, didn’t respond to messages seeking comment.  Liu oversees funds for New York City pensions and had more
than  $120 billion  under management as of March 31. He said
investors are entitled to know about the diversity of companies
in which they invest.  “Many companies say they recognize the business case for a
more diverse workforce and highlight their efforts to promote
greater diversity,” Liu said in an e-mailed statement today.
“But without disclosure of employment data, shareholders cannot
be assured companies are practicing what they preach. This is a
proposal we will continue to pursue.”  JPMorgan, Citigroup  Goldman Sachs, the fifth-biggest  U.S. bank  by assets,  said 
20 percent of its executives and senior officials in the country
were female, compared with 17 percent at  MetLife . The figure was
24 percent at  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and 21 percent at  Citigroup
Inc ., both of which have made the data available for years.  JPMorgan, Citigroup and MetLife all reported that a
majority of their U.S. workforce was female, led by JPMorgan,
the country’s largest bank by assets, at  57 percent . The figure
is 36 percent at Goldman Sachs.  JPMorgan said 54 percent of first- and mid-level officials
and managers were female and 64 percent of a category labeled
“all other.” At Citigroup, almost half of the 49,650 female
 employees  work in administrative support, and about 15 percent
are first- or mid-level managers.  The disclosure “gives us a picture, you know, to the
extent that they have a diverse workforce, how does that play
out as you go up the ladder,” Garland said. “We know as an
industry, there’s significant underrepresentation” of
minorities and women.  The  New York  City pension funds held more than 1.2 million
Goldman Sachs shares, 2.3 million MetLife shares, and 1.1
million AIG shares, according to an April 16 statement from Liu.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  