-- Maine Lobster Tastes Best With Dash of Supply Side
-- B y   A m i t y   S h l a e s
-- 2012-08-16T22:30:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/maine-lobster-tastes-best-with-dash-of-supply-side.html
History repeats itself, first as
tragedy, then as lobster. Or so you might think from reading
this summer’s news in  Maine , which speaks volumes, or crates,
about the farcical nature of North American trade policy.  First, to the dark side of the story, which involves, if
not a tragedy, a tragically long dispute over the lumber trade.
 For decades , the U.S. has been alleging that Canada unfairly
holds down the price of timber for its producers, squeezing out
the noble U.S. lumberman, hurting his industry and therefore
harming the American economy.  In the latest spat, the U.S. accused Canada of
intentionally misclassifying good timber as salvage quality, or
Grade 4, to sell it at the lower price permitted for such wood
under the 2006 Softwood Lumber Agreement.  Humiliatingly, an international arbitration court found no
conclusive evidence for such cheating.  That didn’t deter U.S. authorities.“The Obama
Administration is committed to continue vigorously enforcing”
the softwood agreement,  said Nkenge Harmon , the deputy assistant
U.S. trade representative, in a statement.  Not content with just lumber, President  Barack Obama  has
also established an Interagency Trade Enforcement Unit to police
other trade agreements and bring to justice any nation it deems
a shirker. “We are looking at problems in at least a half-dozen
countries and that number is going to grow,” said Tim Reif,
general counsel in the office of the U.S. trade representative,
in a speech.  Fishing Expedition  The underlying presumption of this fishing expedition is
that economic growth would be stronger if only other nations
could be policed and forced to price fairly. The absurdity of
this position is clear when you consider the Canadian point of
view in a newer dispute over lobsters.  This year’s lobster crop has been enormous, probably
because of warmer water temperatures this past winter and
spring. For New England lobstermen, supply is now outstripping
demand. As a result, lobster processors, most of which are in
 Canada , are paying very low prices to fishermen -- $2.50 or $3 a
pound, compared with the $4 a pound the lobstermen want.  That’s hitting Canadian lobstermen hard. Because of
regulations that aim to sustain lobster supply -- which seem
pretty unnecessary now -- the Canadians are permitted to harvest
lobsters for only part of the summer, unlike their U.S.
counterparts. They thus need to earn more per pound.  Embarrassed American lobstermen keep reminding anyone and
everyone that, heck, there are so few processing plants in Maine
they had to come to Canada, and it’s not fair to punish them for
trying to sell their catch.  Still, like the lumbermen of the Great Northwest, the
Canadian lobstermen are furious. They’re  picketing  the
processing plants that buy from the New England tricksters (or
they were, until a court order stopped them). They  tossed 
lobster traps into the office of the Canadian fisheries
minister. Last month, they formed blockades to halt delivery of
those heinous Maine lobsters.  This time the “unfair trade advantage” is allegedly on the
U.S. side. But U.S. authorities aren’t exactly riding to the
rescue of Canadian lobstermen. They’re siding with the dumpers,
and ostentatiously. “Snowe Welcomes Canadian Court Injunction in
Lobster Dispute,” Maine Senator  Olympia Snowe  posted  on her
website  after Canada’s courts stopped the lobster protesters.
Snowe also wrote to Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  to call
attention to the crisis.  Government’s Role  It’s doubtful that Clinton or any other American official
could do much to solve such problems in the long term. After
all, it wasn’t government policy but some  mystery  of the
Atlantic environment that led to the market glut. And, of
course, the Maine lobster wouldn’t be so cheap for Canadian
processors if the Canadian dollar wasn’t so strong.  Federal authorities typically concern themselves with
making sure the lobster catch is sustainable and that domestic
processing plants are sanitary -- not with whether the creatures
are priced properly.  If this lumber-lobster parable has a hero, it’s a young
entrepreneur named Kyle Murdock, who is  starting a new
processing plant  in Maine, called Sea Hag Seafood, and even
hiring inmates from a nearby prison. That’s the kind of supply-
side thinking that leads to creative business solutions.  The main point is that in every industry, including lumber
and lobster, economic challenges are as numerous as lobster
legs. Sorting them out is beyond any man or woman, and,
certainly, beyond a trade diplomat in  Washington . When
governments turn into overly meddlesome enforcers of trade law,
rather than promoters of trade freedom, they are no longer
helping growth; they are laying anti-growth traps.  ( Amity Shlaes  is a Bloomberg View columnist and the
director of the Four Percent Growth Project at the Bush
Institute. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  U.S.’s ethanol policy  and
on  Israel’s threat  to strike  Iran ; Stephen L. Carter asks
whether anything is really  “politically impossible” ;  Noah
Feldman  on  Egypt’s democratic coup ; William Pesek on  reviving
India’s economy ;  Jonathan Weil  on  Standard Chartered ’s  money
laundering settlement ; Adam Kirsch on  presidential weakness  in
the novel “Primary Colors.”  To contact the writer of this article:
Amity Shlaes at  amityshlaes@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  