-- Malaysia’s 1MDB Said to Plan $2 Billion IPO of Power Assets
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-08-17T03:41:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/malaysia-s-1mdb-said-to-prepare-2-billion-ipo-of-power-assets.html
1Malaysia Development Bhd., the
state investment company known as 1MDB, plans to raise as much
as $2 billion in an initial public offering of its power assets,
said a person with knowledge of the matter.  The IPO may take place in the first quarter of next year,
said the person, who asked not to be identified as the process
is private. 1MDB has recently spent about 10.8 billion ringgit
($3.5 billion) purchasing electricity generation plants.  Malaysian share sales have defied a global slump, with
 Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. (FGV)  and  IHH Healthcare Bhd. (IHH) 
completing two of the world’s three biggest IPOs this year.
Companies have raised a combined $5.1 billion in  Kuala Lumpur 
this year, compared with $2.9 billion in  Hong Kong  and $2
billion in Singapore, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Funds will look at large offerings because they still
have lots of cash and limited number of options in big liquid
stocks,” said Abdul Jalil Abdul Rasheed, who helps manage $3
billion as chief executive officer at Kuala Lumpur-based
Aberdeen Islamic Asset Management Sdn., said in an interview
today. “In Malaysia, any large size IPO will generate interest
and excitement as can be seen in the Felda and IHH offerings.”  Malakoff IPO  Palm-oil planter Felda Global and IHH Healthcare, Asia’s
largest hospital operator, have both advanced more than 11
percent from their offer prices. Malakoff Bhd.,  Malaysia ’s
largest independent power producer, is planning to raise about
$1 billion through an IPO, people with knowledge of the matter
said in June.  Proceeds from 1MDB’s offering would be used to repay debt,
the person said. The company, which is developing an $8 billion
financial district in Kuala Lumpur, has total debt of 20.7
billion ringgit, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  1MDB agreed in March to buy billionaire T. Ananda
Krishnan’s power interests for 8.5 billion ringgit. This
included generating plants in countries including Malaysia,
 Egypt ,  Pakistan  and the United Arab Emirates.  This week, 1MDB agreed to purchase  Genting Bhd. (GENT) ’s domestic
power-generation business for 2.3 billion ringgit, including its
interests in a 720-megawatt plant in Kuala Langat, Selangor.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which advised 1MDB on both deals,
is also likely to be hired for the IPO, the person said.  Shahrol Halmi, 1MDB’s chief executive officer, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone call seeking comment. Energy is
one of the group’s core areas of focus, he said in a statement
on March 7, when it announced the acquisition of Ananda
Krishnan’s power plants.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net ;
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  