-- Americans’ Views on Economy Are Most Pessimistic Since November
-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 3 8 6 0 9 6 5 ]   C a r l o s   T o r r e s   [ ]
-- 2012-08-16T13:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/americans-views-on-economy-are-most-pessimistic-since-november.html
Americans this month were the most
pessimistic on the economic outlook since late last year as fuel
prices rose and unemployment remained elevated.  The share of households viewing the economy as heading in
the wrong direction rose to 45 percent in August, the highest
since November, from 36 percent the prior month. The Bloomberg
 monthly expectations  gauge dropped to minus 22 from minus 11.
The weekly Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 44.4
in the period ended Aug. 12, lowest since January, from minus
41.9  “The American public appears to have tired of running
harder to stand still, expressing their displeasure with the
current state of economic affairs in the country and their own
personal finances,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist
at Bloomberg LP in  New York .  The report raises the risk that a pickup in  retail sales 
last month will not be sustained after gasoline prices climbed
by 38 cents a gallon in less than two months. A jobless rate
that’s exceeded 8 percent for a post-World War II record 42
months is probably also contributing to concern that the world’s
largest economy is failing to make enough progress.  Another report today showed the number of Americans filing
applications for  unemployment benefits  was little changed last
week, bringing the average over the past month to the lowest
level since late March, a sign the labor market has stabilized
after employment picked up in July.  Jobless Claims  Jobless  claims  climbed by 2,000 to 366,000 in the week
ended Aug. 11, Labor Department figures showed. The median
forecast of 45 economists surveyed by Bloomberg called for an
increase to 365,000. The four-week  moving average , a less
volatile measure, dropped to 363,750, the fewest since the week
ended March 31.  Also today, new-home construction fell in July, while the
number of building permits jumped to the highest level in four
years, indicating the industry will keep improving in the second
half of the year, figures from the Commerce Department showed.  Stocks advanced, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index
higher for a second day, following the reports. The  S&P 500
Index  rose 0.1 percent to 1,406.81 at 9:40 a.m. in New York.  Two of the comfort index’s three components deteriorated
last week. More than half of respondents -- 56 percent -- had a
negative opinion of their own  finances , the most since May.
Almost nine out of every 10 held a  negative view  on the economy,
the most since February.  Buying Climate  Slightly fewer people called it a bad time to make
purchases, with the  buying  climate index at minus 46.4 from
minus 47.7 in the prior week.  In a nation where  consumer spending  accounts for 70 percent
of the economy, the soft labor market has been eroding household
confidence. Paychecks are stagnant, with hourly earnings
adjusted for inflation up 0.2 percent over the past 12 months,
according to Labor Department data issued yesterday.  “An extended period of underemployment and declining
inflation-adjusted earnings has decisively turned public
sentiment acidic on the economy,” Brusuelas said.  In a presidential election year, Democrats have reported
greater optimism than Republicans for a record 21 weeks, a sign
that politics are driving perceptions. Forty-one percent of
Democrats say the economy is improving, compared with 5 percent
of Republicans and 24 percent of independents. Republicans’
views are among the lowest in data going back to 1998.  Other measures of confidence have been mixed. The
Conference Board’s  gauge  unexpectedly rose in July for the first
time in five months, while the Thomson Reuters/University of
Michigan’s  index  fell to the lowest level of the year.  High Earners  Today’s report showed high-income earners are losing
confidence. For Americans earning $100,000 a year or more, the
index turned negative for the first time in a month.  The measure for people 45 to 54 years old slumped to a
record-low minus 68.4.  A report this week showed Americans were still spending, at
least last month. Retail sales climbed 0.8 percent in July, the
most since February and first gain in four months, according to
data from the Commerce Department.  Target Corp. (TGT)  raised its annual profit forecast yesterday as
the second-largest U.S. discount retailer increases sales by
adding groceries and enticing more spending from customers with
a discount card.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index, compiled by Langer
Research Associates in New York, conducts telephone surveys with
a random sample of 1,000 consumers 18 and older. Each week, 250
respondents are asked for their views on the economy, personal
finances and buying climate; the percentage of negative
responses is subtracted from the share of positive views and
divided by three. The most recent reading is based on the
average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index can range from 100, indicating every
participant in the survey had a positive response to all three
components, to minus 100, signaling all views were negative. The
margin of error for the headline reading is 3 percentage points. 