-- Manchester City Is Bookmakers’ Premier League Choice Over United
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-16T12:38:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/manchester-city-is-bookmakers-premier-league-choice-over-united.html
After winning its first English
league soccer championship in 44 years,  Manchester City  will
only have to wait 12 months to take the trophy again, according
to U.K. bookmakers.  City is the 5-4 favorite with  William Hill Plc (WMH)  and
 Ladbrokes Plc (LAD)  to retain its Premier League title, meaning a
successful $4 bet will bring in $5 plus the original stake.
 Manchester United  is the 9-4 second choice ahead of European
champion Chelsea, 5-1, at William Hill.  City’s favoritism going into this weekend’s opening round
of games comes even after record 19-time champion United added
more new players than its neighbor in the offseason. United
signed midfielders Shinji Kagawa and Nick Powell, and has agreed
on a fee with Arsenal for Dutch striker  Robin van Persie , who
led the Premier League with 30 goals last season.  William Hill’s Rupert Adams said United’s deal for  Van Persie  wasn’t enough to make it the betting favorite over City
because of the striker’s history.  “Last year was fantastic, but it was his first injury-free
season and he’s very prone to injury,” Adams said in a
telephone interview. “We’re factoring in half a season’s worth
of good play rather than a season’s worth.”  Adams added that City’s forwards, who include  Sergio Aguero ,  Carlos Tevez ,  Mario Balotelli  and  Edin Dzeko , are a more
formidable unit than United’s, even with the addition of Van
Persie.  “Squad-wise, and certainly striker-wise, they look
stronger,” he said of City.  Final Day  The Premier League, soccer’s richest domestic competition,
starts its 21st season in two days with seven games. The
following day, Manchester City begins its title defense against
newly promoted Southampton, with Manchester United completing
the opening round at Everton on Aug. 20.  City won the championship on the final day of last season
by scoring two goals in stoppage time, the second coming in the
closing seconds from Aguero, to beat Queens Park Rangers and
deny United its 20th title on goal difference. City manager
 Roberto Mancini  said his team will now be the target.  “We know that we cannot rest on that success,” the
Italian said before last weekend’s Community Shield win against
Chelsea. “We must forget that we won the title. Every team will
want to beat us and now we must work harder than ever before.”  Although owner Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan has spent
more than $1 billion since buying the club in 2008, City has so
far only added midfielder  Jack Rodwell , 21, from Everton for a
fee U.K. newspaper reports said was about 15 million pounds
($23.5 million).  United Recruits  United signed Japan midfielder Kagawa, 23, from German
champion  Borussia Dortmund  for an undisclosed fee and added
 England  under-19 international Powell, 18, from Crewe.
Newspapers including the  Daily Telegraph  said the combined fee
for both players was 21 million pounds.  Arsenal remains the bookmakers’ fourth pick with 12-1 odds,
the same it had before the Van Persie agreement with United.  William Hill’s Adams said the Gunners prepared for the
striker’s departure by adding Germany striker Lukas Podolski,
27, Olivier Giroud, the top scorer in  France ’s elite league last
season, and Spain midfielder Santi Cazorla.  The  Daily Mirror  also reported today that United striker
 Javier Hernandez  could move to Arsenal, which would give the
Gunners another boost, according to Adams.  “If that’s the case, we potentially see them as good,” he
said. “It’s been no secret that RVP was going, it was just a
question of where to. They’ve covered it already.”  New Managers  Two other teams are expected by bookmakers to battle for a
Champions League place and both have new managers.  Brendan Rodgers  moves to Liverpool after leading Swansea to 11th-place
in its Premier League debut season, while Andre Villas-Boas
takes over at Tottenham after being fired eight months into his
Chelsea tenure amid player discord.  “He was very unlucky in his short spell at Chelsea,”
Adams said of Villas-Boas, 34. “He’ll now be able to mold a
squad much easier without basically a player revolt. He’s a very
good coach and will do extremely well.”  The fight at the bottom of the standings to avoid
relegation to the second-tier Championship may be tight.  Reading is the even-money favorite to go straight back down
a division, followed by Norwich (5-4) and Southampton (11-8).
Wigan, which used a late run to avoid the drop last season,
Swansea and promoted West Ham will also battle to stay up,
according to William Hill.  Relegation Battle  Adams said the relegation fight will be wide open and he
wouldn’t be surprised if all three newcomers survive, just as
QPR, Norwich and Swansea did last season.  “I don’t think the Premiership sides are expecting the
ability and the drive and desire of many of these Championship
sides when they arrive,” Adams said. “I’m pretty sure one will
at least stay up and it’s just a question of how many.”  West Ham manager  Sam Allardyce  said promoted clubs have to
be at their very best to remain in the top flight.  “In the Championship last season, we could have been at 80
percent and still won a game,” he said on the club’s website.
“We’ll have to be 100 percent every game to win in the Premier
League.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  