-- Hanwha Chairman Gets Four Years in Jail for Embezzlement
-- B y   S a n g i m   H a n
-- 2012-08-16T07:42:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/hanwha-chairman-gets-four-years-in-jail-for-embezzlement.html
Hanwha Group Chairman Kim Seung Youn
was sentenced to four years in jail and fined 5.1 billion won
($4.5 million) for embezzlement amid a presidential election
campaign that’s increasing scrutiny of South Korean executives.  A three-judge panel in the Seoul Western  District Court 
found that Kim used funds from the nation’s 10th-largest
industrial group to pay the debts of private firms owned under
false names. The 60-year-old, who was granted a presidential
pardon in 2008 after striking a man with a steel pipe and
threatening others with an electric shock device, plans to
appeal against today’s ruling.  The Hanwha chairman was taken directly into custody in a
break from common practice in  Asia ’s fourth-biggest economy,
where judges have suspended prison terms for corporate leaders
including Kim for assault and the chairmen of Samsung
Electronics Co. and Hyundai Motor Co. for white-collar offenses.
Shares of Hanwha Corp.,  Hanwha Securities (003530)  Co. and Hanwha
Chemical Corp. all declined.  “It’s a bit of a surprise,” Charles Lee, a Hong Kong-
based research director for North Asia with the Asian Corporate
Governance Association, said by phone. “Korea Inc. appears to
have taken the first step forward to change its usual political
and legal practices.”  Kim had pleaded not guilty and said through his lawyers
during the trial that Hanwha companies had not incurred any
losses. Investigations began in 2010 into allegations that Kim
was involved in embezzling money between 2004 and 2006.  Tougher Laws  With campaigning underway for a presidential election in
December, 23 members of the ruling New Frontier Party on July 16
submitted a draft  revision  to the National Assembly to increase
sentences and limit the scope for judges to suspend jail terms
for leaders of the chaebol, as the business groups are known in
 South Korea .  “It’s said money is almighty and that chaebol bosses are
protected by people in power,” the group said in the draft.  Since 1990, seven chairmen from the nation’s 10 largest
industrial groups have been sentenced to jail, and on every
occasion the prison term was ultimately suspended, according to
 Chaebul.com , a Seoul-based organization that collects
information about the conglomerates.  After attacking bar workers in 2007 who’d been involved in
a scuffle with his son, Kim was given a three-year jail sentence
that was suspended on condition he did 200 hours of community
service. The next year he received a presidential pardon.  Explosives, Insurance  Kim succeeded his father as chairman of Hanwha Group in
1981. The conglomerate generates about 60 percent of its revenue
from financial services through companies including Korea Life
and Hanwha Securities, with much of the remainder coming from
explosives, chemicals and construction, according Hanwha Group
spokesman Park Jang Woo.  Hyundai Motor Chairman  Chung Mong Koo  and SK Holdings Co.
Chairman Chey Tae Won were among 74 business people pardoned
along with Kim in 2008.  “I am aware that there is criticism of the amnesties and
personally I oppose them,” President  Lee Myung Bak  said in a
statement at the time. “But I considered slowing investment and
decided that businesses may be facing difficulties.”  The chaebol, some of which trace their origins back to the
Japanese colonial era which ended in 1945, thrived during the
postwar period and helped drive the export-led growth that
pulled South Korea out of poverty and into the ranks of the
Group of 20 nations.  Surging Revenue  Hanwha Group’s revenue has jumped 47-fold since 1980 to 35
trillion won last year, according to data from the nation’s Fair
Trade Commission.  Hanwha Corp. (000880)  shares fell 2.6 percent to 30,100 won at the 3
p.m. close of trading in Seoul, while the benchmark Kospi index
rose 0.05 percent. Hanwha Securities declined 0.9 percent,
Hanwha Chemical dropped 0.5 percent and Korea Life advanced 0.5
percent after earlier sliding as much as 1.6 percent.  Samsung Group , led by Samsung Electronics Chairman Lee Kun
Hee, is the largest of South Korea’s chaebol and has sales
equivalent to about one-fifth of the nation’s economy. Lee was
convicted of  tax evasion  in 2008, given a suspended three-year
prison term and also subsequently pardoned by the president.  Hong Dong Ok, co-chief executive officer of Yeochun NCC Co.,
an affiliate of Hanwha Chemical, was sentenced to four years in
prison today and fined 1 billion won for aiding Kim.  The case is Kim Seung Youn and 15 others 2011 Gohap 25,
 Seoul  Western District Court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangim Han in Seoul at 
 sihan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  