-- Apple Reverses Recent Cuts in Retail Store Staffing
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-16T19:48:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/apple-plans-reversal-of-recent-changes-to-retail-store-staffing.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said recent staffing
changes it made in its retail stores selling iPhones, iPads and
Macs were “a mistake,” and is reversing the policies.  Staffing was reduced at some locations and hours were cut
as part of steps implemented by Apple’s new head of retail,  John Browett , according to a store employee familiar with the changes
who couldn’t be named for fear of being fired. The plan had led
to news reports that Cupertino, California-based Apple was
cutting workers in stores in  London  and elsewhere.  The about-face comes as employees at Apple’s more than 370
retail stores are gearing up for next month’s release of the
latest iPhone, as well as the back-to-school and holiday
shopping seasons. Browett joined Apple four months ago as senior
vice president of retail from  Dixons Retail Plc (DXNS) , the U.K.-based
electronics store chain where he was chief executive officer. In
June, he had announced a round of pay increases for retail
workers.  At some locations, Apple also has been limiting transfers
among employees who want to work in a different store, according
to the retail worker. The changes were due to Browett’s arrival,
this person said.  In response, Apple said it would return to its old policy.  “We recently implemented some changes in retail
staffing,” said  Kristin Huguet , a spokeswoman for Apple.
“Making these changes was a mistake and the changes are being
reversed.”  Staffing Formula  The reversal was first reported by Dow Jones. According to
the report, Apple had changed its staffing formula, which led to
reduced hours and some understaffed stores.  Apple’s retail stores generated $4.1 billion in revenue for
the company last quarter, up 17 percent from a year earlier.
Average store revenue was $11.1 million, with 83 million people
visiting the stores.  The staffing change is the second time in a month that
Apple has reversed its decision. Apple said on July 13 it had
made a “mistake” when dropping out of an environmental rating
system. That decision had drawn criticism from environmental
groups and threatened to halt sales to some governments and
universities.  -- Editors: Reed Stevenson, Stephen West  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  