-- Applied Materials Predicts Sales Below Estimates
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-08-16T21:18:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/applied-materials-predicts-sales-below-estimates.html
Applied Materials Inc. (AMAT) , the world’s
largest producer of chipmaking equipment, forecast fiscal
fourth-quarter sales that may fall short of analysts’ estimates
as some customers rein in expansion plans.  Sales in the current period will fall 25 percent to 40
percent from the prior quarter, the company said yesterday in a
statement, indicating revenue of $1.41 billion to $1.76 billion.
Analysts on average estimated sales of $1.95 billion, according
to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  Makers of Nand flash memory -- semiconductors used to store
data in phones, tablets and other devices -- are producing more
chips than their customers need, hurting prices and causing chip
companies to curb output, according to Patrick Ho, an analyst at
Stifel Nicolaus & Co. Applied Materials may also be setting
conservative targets in an unpredictable economic climate, he
said.  “Nand has some supply-demand imbalances that will take a
few quarters to work through,” said Ho, who is based in  Dallas .
He recommends buying Applied Materials shares. “They’re going
to be cautious.”  The company predicts per-share profit before some items to
be break-even to 6 cents in the fourth quarter, which ends in
October. On that basis, it was estimated to have a profit of 12
cents a share, the average of analysts’ predictions.  Shares of  Santa Clara , California-based Applied Materials
rose 1.5 percent to $11.98 at the close in  New York . The stock
has climbed 12 percent this year.  Third Quarter  Applied Materials said third-quarter net income fell to
$218 million, or 17 cents a share, from $476 million, or 36
cents, a year earlier. Revenue in the period that ended in July
dropped 16 percent to $2.34 billion. That compares with average
analyst estimates for profit of 21 cents and sales of $2.32
billion.  Demand for Applied Materials’ machinery fell more than
expected in all of its markets, including flat-screen display
and solar-panel equipment, Chief Executive Officer Mike Splinter
said. Even so, orders for chip gear will pick up in the last
three months of the year, he said.  So-called foundries, which make chips for other companies,
will lead a return to building capacity as they gear up for
smartphone growth next year, Splinter said. Their willingness to
spend on new machinery will be influenced by how well those
handhelds sell in this year’s holiday shopping season, he said.  Holiday Buying  “A big part of this return is dependent on smartphones and
tablets and a reasonable holiday buying season,” Splinter said
in a telephone interview yesterday. “We’re being quite
realistic and cautious.”  Last month, Applied Materials reduced its projections for
this fiscal year. For the 12 months ending Oct. 28, sales will
be below a previous prediction of $9.1 billion to $9.5 billion,
the company said July 10. Profit, excluding some items, will be
less than its previous forecast of 85 cents to 95 cents a share.  Applied Materials also cut its forecast for industrywide
factory-equipment sales to $30 billion to $33 billion, compared
with an earlier prediction of $32 billion to $35 billion.  Investors and analysts track semiconductor-equipment orders
as a harbinger of demand for the broader electronics industry.
Chipmakers such as  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Samsung Electronics Co. vary
spending on new equipment and plants based on their projections
for demand as much as two years in advance.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  