-- Apple Said to Talk With Cable Industry About Set-Top Box
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n   a n d   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-08-16T21:21:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/apple-said-to-talk-with-cable-industry-about-set-top-box.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  is in talks with at least
one of the largest U.S. cable companies about teaming up on a
product to carry live television and other content, a person
with knowledge of the discussions said.  Customers would be able to use an Apple-designed device to
access their set of channels instead of leasing a set-top box
from cable companies for a monthly fee, said the person, who
asked not to be named because the talks are private. No deal has
been reached, the person said.  An agreement would mark the iPhone maker’s biggest foray
into TV after years of calling it a “hobby.” The company’s $99
Apple TV product doesn’t carry live network broadcasting and is
mainly used for downloading movies and shows from the iTunes
media store or streaming content from such services as  Netflix
Inc. (NFLX)  and Google Inc.’s YouTube.  By aligning with cable companies, Apple would get access to
the variety of channels now available to cable subscribers,
instead of having to strike independent licensing deals with
media companies and program owners.  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Cupertino, California-based
Apple, declined to comment. The discussions were previously
reported by the Wall Street Journal.  Earlier Comcast Talks  Apple, the world’s most valuable company, has talked with
cable companies about a TV partnership in the past. When the
company was preparing to introduce Apple TV in 2007, executives
reached out to  Comcast (CMCSA)  Corp. about striking a deal, according to
a person familiar with the talks. D’Arcy Rudnay, a spokeswoman
for Philadelphia-based Comcast, declined to comment.  Apple executives, led by Senior Vice President Eddy Cue,
have long been talking with media companies about ways to get
more content for its TV product.  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s ESPN sports
network has talked with Apple about giving subscribers online
access to programming through Apple TV, executives said in May.  In 2010, Apple also tried unsuccessfully to get some
networks to offer subscriptions to their channels for Apple TV
users, people familiar with the plans said at the time.  Time Warner Inc. (TWX)  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bewkes  said in July that he planned to talk with Apple CEO  Tim Cook  about Apple TV. Apple may forge a partnership with a cable
provider, similar to the way it originally struck a deal with
 AT&T Inc. (T)  on the iPhone, said Bewkes, whose company owns  HBO  and
other channels.  Affiliate Fees  That’s because Bewkes said Apple most likely wouldn’t be
interested in cutting deals directly with television
programmers, which would charge costly affiliate fees.  “I don’t know if that’s Apple’s style to pay
programmers,” Bewkes said at Allen & Co.’s annual media
conference in Sun Valley, Idaho.  One challenge Apple has faced is that cable companies such
as Comcast have invested heavily in developing a new user
interface for their own set-top boxes that they lease to
customers for a monthly fee. Cable companies also may be
reluctant to cede control to Apple in the way record labels and
telephone carriers have.  Apple co-founder  Steve Jobs  had expressed skepticism to
other executives about the company’s chances in television if
they weren’t able to get more content, especially live broadcast
rights, said two people familiar with the company’s TV efforts.
Jobs also had been wary of working with cable companies because
each provider only controls certain geographies, limiting what
would be available to some customers if any of them didn’t team
up with Apple, these people said.  ‘Simplest Interface’  Before his death last year, Jobs became more upbeat about
the company’s chances. He told biographer Walter Isaacson that
he had “finally cracked” how to build a TV device.  “It will have the simplest user interface you could
imagine,” Jobs told Isaacson in the biography “Steve Jobs.”  The comments fueled speculation about Apple’s aspirations
to reach customers in the living room.  Gene Munster , an analyst
for Piper Jaffray Cos., has said that the company has built a
prototype TV for release by next year.  It isn’t clear whether a deal with cable companies would
involve use of Apple’s existing TV product, which plugs in to a
television set, or the release of a new device.  Cable companies have begun embracing the popularity of
Apple devices in other ways. Comcast,  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) 
and  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  offer apps so subscribers can watch
TV on an iPhone or iPad.  Besides Cue, who leads Apple’s negotiations with media
companies, another executive leading the product design of
Apple’s TV effort is Jeff Robbin, who helped create the iPod and
build the iTunes store, people familiar with the project said
last year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  