-- Apple-Samsung Patent Judge Seeks Report on Horse Trading
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-16T17:03:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/apple-samsung-patent-judge-asks-for-report-on-horse-trading-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and Samsung Electronics
Co. were urged by a judge to narrow the claims in their dispute
over smartphone patents and to report to the court on talks
between the companies’ chief executives.  U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh said today in federal court in
 San Jose ,  California , that she remains “pathologically
optimistic” the companies can settle. Separately, in the event
the jury is left to decide the case, she said she wants a
statement from the companies by Aug. 18 reporting whether
“there has been some successful horse trading” to streamline
and simplify claims.  Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying
patented designs for mobile devices, and Samsung countersued.
The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle
being waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone
market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  The trial, now in its third week, continued today with
testimony from Michael Wagner, an accountant called by  Samsung (005930) 
to rebut Apple’s claims that it’s owed at least $2.5 billion in
damages. Wagner said Cupertino, California-based Apple failed to
include all of Samsung’s costs in its calculations.  Sales Ban  In addition to damages, Apple is seeking to make permanent
a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet, and
extend the ban to Samsung smartphones. Samsung, based in Suwon,
 South Korea , is trying to persuade the jury to declare Apple’s
 patents  invalid and to find that Apple has infringed its own
patents.  Koh said yesterday that both sides face risks in a jury
verdict and urged the CEOs to talk before jurors begin
deliberating. Koh said she wants deliberations to begin by Aug.
21. Lawyers for the companies said they would comply with her
request.  The judge earlier this year ordered Apple CEO  Tim Cook  to
meet face to face with his counterpart at Samsung, Choi Gee Sung, who has since been replaced as CEO by Kwon Oh Hyun. The
May conference didn’t yield a settlement.  “It’s at least worth one more try,” Koh said yesterday.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  