-- Samsung Rests Case Against Apple After Damages Sparring
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/apple-may-owe-samsung-422-million-royalties-witnesses-say-1-.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  rested its
case in a patent-infringement trial with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  after
putting on witnesses who said the iPhone maker would owe the
South Korean company as much as $421.8 million in royalties.  One of the damages experts called yesterday by Samsung,
David Teece of  University of California , Berkeley’s business
school, outlined his calculations for Apple’s alleged
infringement of two of the patents and cited $349 million as a
middle-range figure based on a royalty rate of 2.4 percent.  On cross-examination, a lawyer for Apple, Joe Mueller, got
Teece to admit he didn’t know how Samsung arrived at the rate.
The lawyer showed Teece a July 2011 letter from Samsung to Apple
proposing the iPhone maker pay the 2.4 percent rate to license
any of 86 patents. Samsung had never published the rate, and
“you have no evidence that Samsung has ever asked any other
company for such a rate,” Mueller said.  Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying
patented designs for mobile devices, and Suwon, South Korea-
based Samsung countersued. The case is the first to go before a
federal jury in a battle being waged on four continents for
dominance in a smartphone market valued by Bloomberg Industries
at $219.1 billion.  The trial began July 30 and U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh
limited each side to 25 hours to present their cases. Jurors are
now hearing rebuttal witnesses and Koh said she wants jury
deliberations to begin by Aug. 21  CEO Talks  The judge yesterday urged the companies to narrow the
claims in their dispute and directed them to report to the court
on talks between their respective chief executives that she
proposed on Aug. 15.  Koh said she remains “pathologically optimistic” the
companies can settle. Separately, in the event the jury is left
to decide the case, she said she wants a statement from the
companies by Aug. 18 reporting whether “there has been some
successful horse trading” to streamline and simplify claims.  Apple said in a pretrial filing that the 2.4 percent rate
is “unfair, unreasonable, and discriminatory.”  Samsung “has never sought or received” the 2.4 percent
royalty “from any licensee, and indeed cannot even explain
where that number came from,” Apple argued in the July 25
filing. “Samsung’s royalty demands are multiple times more than
Apple has paid any other patentees for licenses to their
declared-essential patent portfolios,” Apple said.  ‘Fair and Reasonable’  Samsung countered in its own filing that long before Apple
announced the release of any of its products using Samsung’s
technology, Samsung offered a “fair and reasonable” royalty
rate on its patents to “virtually every major player in the
mobile phone industry,” including Apple.  Samsung’s offer is “consistent with the royalty rates
other companies charge for use of their standards-essential
patents,” Samsung said in its filing. Apple “simply rejected
Samsung’s opening offer, refused to negotiate further and to
this day has not paid Samsung a dime for Apple’s use of
Samsung’s standards-essential technology.”  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , claims it is owed at
least $2.5 billion in damages and is also seeking to make
permanent a preliminary ban it won on U.S. sales of a Samsung
tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung smartphones.  Yesterday, Samsung called an accountant witness, Michael
Wagner, to rebut Apple’s damages estimate. Wagner said Apple
failed to include all of Samsung’s costs in its calculations.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
( San Jose ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  