-- Arise to Sell Wind Projects to Pension Funds to Cut Bank Loans
-- B y   T o m   M e t c a l f
-- 2012-08-16T14:41:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/arise-to-sell-wind-projects-to-pension-funds-to-cut-bank-loans.html
Arise Windpower AB (AWP) , a Swedish
developer of renewable energy projects, is targeting investments
from pension funds as it seeks to curb reliance on bank loans.  Institutional investors such as pension funds will be
invited to take stakes in wind farms to generate funds for new
projects, Chief Executive Officer Peter Nygren said yesterday in
an interview.  “We probably will sell off part of our operational wind
farms,” Nygren said. “The profit and cash released can be used
in new wind farms.”  Arise is targeting a fivefold expansion in wind turbines by
2014 as Sweden seeks to generate 49 percent of its power from
renewable sources by the end of the decade. Pension funds
typically have a lower threshold for return on invested capital
and a longer timeframe than other investors, Nygren said.  Arise previously financed projects through bank loans with
the company putting up 30 percent of funding itself. The company
said earlier this month it had taken over a project in northern
 Sweden  that would probably be financed via this method.  In future, while the levels of gearing will remain the
same, financing will be provided by pension funds, bank loans,
or a combination of the two, according to the company. Gearing
refers to the ratio of long-term debt to equity capital.  Other financing methods are also being examined such as
asking turbine suppliers to provide loans to help fund those
fields where they wish to provide equipment. Cash may also be
raised through bond sales, though there are no plans to sell any
more shares.  Share Sale  The company sold shares on the OMX Nordic Exchange in
 Stockholm  in March 2010. Its shares have fallen  49 percent  since
then. It raised 350 million Swedish kronor ($52 million) in
March through a  bond issue .  “The share price shows the stock market is not very keen
on investing or putting in additional money into the company at
these levels,” Henrik Alveskog, an analyst at Redeye AB in
Stockholm, said by phone today. “It is more cost efficient for
them to go directly to certain investors.”  Arise Windpower currently has 64  wind turbines  in
operation, Nygren said. The company plans to have 300 wind
turbines in operation or under construction by 2014. Arise owns
a 50 percent stake in the Jaadras field, northern  Europe ’s
largest onshore wind project, which is due to start in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Metcalf in London at 
 tmetcalf7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  