-- Arizona Immigrants in Obama Program Won’t Get Licenses
-- B y   A m a n d a   J .   C r a w f o r d   a n d   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 2012-08-16T20:33:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/arizona-immigrants-approved-by-u-s-won-t-get-licenses.html
Young immigrants authorized to work
in the U.S. under a new federal program won’t be able to get
driver’s licenses in Arizona.  Republican Governor Jan Brewer issued an executive order
saying state law bars benefits or state-issued identification
for those in the country illegally -- including those who
qualify for the deferred-enforcement program announced by
President  Barack Obama  in June, which kicked off yesterday. She
directed agencies to block access for an estimated 80,000
immigrants in Arizona who may qualify.  Brewer’s order came as thousands of young illegal
immigrants lined up around the U.S. seeking information about
work permits and a possible two-year deferment of deportation,
including 11,000 who came to Navy Pier in  Chicago  to meet with
volunteer lawyers, the  Chicago Tribune  reported. The program is
open to those who were brought to the U.S. before age 16, have
been in the country at least five years and who graduate from
high school or serve in the military, among other criteria.  The policy may benefit as many as 1.7 million people age 30
and under, according to estimates from the  Pew Hispanic Center .
The report said that 950,000 people would be eligible
immediately and another 770,000 people in the future as they
meet the criteria set by the president.  Defend Arizona  Obama’s policy bypassed Congress, where legislation known
as the Dream Act designed to give a path to legal status for
younger illegal immigrants has been stalled. It also pushed the
issue back into Obama’s campaign with presumptive Republican
nominee  Mitt Romney , who has opposed the measure. Romney has
said he would “put in place my own long-term solution.”  In her executive order, Brewer said federal documents
issued under the new program won’t prove lawful status and
permitting state-issued identification or benefits to recipients
would “have significant and lasting impacts on the Arizona
budget.”  The governor’s spokesman, Matthew Benson, said Brewer is
seeking to defend her state.  “The governor can’t undo what the president has done, but
she can take a stand for state law,” Benson said. “By no
definition are these individuals lawfully present or lawfully
authorized to be in the  United States . All they have received is
a deferral from being prosecuted or deported.”  Into Court  The  American Civil Liberties Union  of Arizona disagrees
with the governor, said Executive Director Alessandra Soler.
State law allows driver’s licenses for others authorized by the
federal government to be in the U.S., including people here on
political asylum, she said.  “The definitive action on this will be decided in a
courtroom,” Senate Democratic Leader David Schapira said at a
press briefing.  In other states, officials are evaluating whether young
people admitted under the program qualify for driver’s licenses
or identification.  Michigan will accept the federal documentation, said Fred
Woodhams, spokesman for the secretary of state. California will
treat those in the new program as “temporary legal residents”
and issue licenses, according to the San Jose Mercury News.  Driver’s licenses aren’t the only issue. In  Florida ,
students in the program will pay out-of-state tuition, Florida
State University System spokeswoman Diane McCain said. Benson,
Brewer’s spokesman, said  Arizona  law prohibits in-state tuition
for undocumented immigrants, including those in this program.  Waiting to Drive  At Arizona’s Capitol, a few dozen young immigrants and
supporters today held signs such as “Brewer, why the hate?”  Carla Chavarria, a 19-year-old illegal immigrant from
Scottsdale, remembers feeling left out in high school when
friends started getting driver’s licenses. She was hoping to get
one if she is admitted to the new program.  “They don’t let us have a victory,” said Chavarria, who
runs an advertising and graphics design business and was brought
to the country at age 7. She said that Brewer was “like a bully
-- you got up from the playground and I am going to push you
down again.”  The program’s inception has created a flurry of action in
immigrant communities.  Amanda Bergson-Shilcock, director of outreach and program
evaluation at the Welcoming Center for New Pennsylvanians, a
Philadelphia-based organization, said immigrant groups have been
holding information sessions for two months.  “There’s a lot of trepidation,” she said. People wonder,
“How do I get this exactly right so I don’t lose my once in a
lifetime chance?”  Answering Questions  In Florida, a two-hour phone bank answering questions
yesterday received about 500 calls, said Natalia Jaramillo,
spokeswoman for Miami-based Florida Immigration Coalition.  The Ohio chapter of the American Immigration Lawyers
Association is setting up a free clinic in  Cleveland  on Aug. 18,
said David Leopold, an immigration attorney.  “People are saying, ‘I can stand up and be somebody in
this society now,’” Leopold said in a telephone interview.
“It’s just wonderful to see such hope.”  Eduardo Resendez said he was 16 when he, his mother and
younger sister left their home in  Mexico  City, crossed the Texas
border and made their way to the Bronx in  New York City , where
his father was already living. Resendez, now 22, is on a path to
get working papers, he said in a telephone interview today.  Already in the midst of getting a bachelor’s degree in
music from the  City University  of  New York , being allowed to
work legally would mean fulfilling his dream of being a high-
school music teacher.  “Before this, I knew I wouldn’t be able to teach in the
U.S., so my plan was to go back to Mexico when I graduated,”
Resendez said. “Now, that plan has changed. I’ll be able to
stay with my family. That’s one of the greatest things that will
happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amanda J. Crawford in Phoenix at 
 acrawford24@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Niquette in Columbus  at 
 mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey Taylor at 
 jtaylor48@bloomberg.net  