-- Armajaro Sees Chinese Sugar Imports Falling on Bigger Local Crop
-- B y   I s i s   A l m e i d a
-- 2012-08-16T14:55:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/armajaro-sees-chinese-sugar-imports-falling-on-bigger-local-crop.html
Sugar imports into  China , the world’s
second-biggest consumer, will drop by about 1 million metric
tons in the season that starts in October as the country
harvests a bigger crop, according to Armajaro Trading Group Ltd.  China’s imports will drop to about 1.97 million tons in
2012-13 from just under 3 million tons this season, said Guy
Toller, head of sugar trading at the London-based company.
Production there will rise to at least 12.5 million tons next
season from 11.5 million tons this year, Armajaro estimates.  “Their crop is looking very good,” Toller said in an
interview at the company’s office in  London  today. “With a much
bigger crop and domestic prices indicating stagnant consumption,
we think there will be substantially smaller imports.”  Chinese buyers sold some of the sugar they bought for the
third quarter back to the market, he said. Sugar imports into
the country are unlikely to match this season’s levels
unless high corn prices result in “a big switch from
alternative sweeteners back into sugar,” he said. Corn, used to
make sweeteners, has climbed 59 percent since June 15 because of
the worst drought in the U.S. since 1956.  The sugar cane crop in  India , the world’s second-biggest
producer and largest consumer, will drop to 24 million tons in
2012-13, Armajaro estimates. That compares with 26 million tons
in the current season, Toller said. India’s rain deficit was 15
percent of the 50-year average as of yesterday, compared with 19
percent at the end of July, the  India Meteorological Department 
said.  “The lack of rainfall is possibly not as bad as it was but
is still not good,” Toller said. “The issues to watch from
here on are if they get rains in Tamil Nandu and how bad
Maharashtra is. The rest of it looks pretty good.”  Indian Consumption  Consumption in India will rise 500,000 tons to 23.6
million tons next season, while stockpiles at the end of the
current season are estimated at 5 million tons, Toller said. The
country is unlikely to export any more sweetener as higher
 domestic  prices have made shipping it unfavorable.  “If domestic prices hold within a 5 percent range of where
they are now, we don’t see an incentive for export,” Toller
said. “India shouldn’t be a net importer, but if they happen to
have very low stocks, and estimates vary from 1.5 million to 7
million tons as of the end of September, and  food security  is an
issue for the government, all this could change very quickly.”  Diwali Festival  The crop there may be delayed because Diwali, the festival
of lights celebrated by Hindus, will be celebrated later this
year, he said. Diwali will start Nov. 13 compared with Oct. 26
last year. Sugar consumption usually increases during the period
as people consume sweets made of milk, milk derivatives and
sugar and local sweets are also distributed as gifts. The Indian
government usually asks mills to sell more sugar for Diwali.  “The Diwali is extremely late and it may be difficult to
get cane cutters to come and start the crop, so it could be a
late start,” Toller said. “One factor that has helped the
domestic market is that the Diwali is so late and all the
festival consumption will be out of last season’s production.”  Global sugar supplies will outpace demand by 4.5 million
tons in 2012-13, Toller estimates. Prices are unlikely to stay
below 20 cents a pound even with a global surplus until there is
more certainty about the size of the crop in India and top
grower  Brazil , he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isis Almeida in London at 
 Ialmeida3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 