-- Army General Said to Be Investigated for Travel Spending
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-08-16T04:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/army-general-said-to-be-investigated-for-travel-spending.html
The former head of U.S. Africa
Command is under investigation and faces possible demotion for
allegedly spending hundreds of thousands of dollars on lavish
travel for himself and family members, an Army official said.  Army General William Ward, who served as the first
commander of Africa Command until last year, is alleged to have
spent an undisclosed amount of unauthorized money on
transportation and hotel rooms, including for his family, said
the official, who requested anonymity because he wasn’t
authorized to speak publicly about the confidential
investigation.  Ward’s fate awaits a decision by Defense Secretary Leon Panetta, the official said yesterday. The probe by the Defense
Department’s Office of Inspector General was completed in June
and a public version of its report is being prepared for
release, Bridget Serchak, a spokeswoman for the inspector
general’s office, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday.  Ward served as head of Africa Command, the newest of six
regional geographic commands, from Oct. 1, 2007, to March 9,
2011. The alleged unauthorized spending occurred while he headed
the command, which is based in Stuttgart,  Germany .  Ward now serves as a special assistant to the Army’s vice
chief of staff, according to Army spokesman George Wright. Ward
couldn’t be reached for comment, Wright said.  Panetta is reviewing a variety of disciplinary measures for
Ward, with nothing ruled out, the Army official said.  As head of Africa Command, Ward was a four-star general,
the highest rank in the Army. He is considered a two-star
general in his current position, although no decision has been
made on the rank at which he will retire, the official said.  The investigation into Ward was reported by Stars and
Stripes in May. The nature of the allegations was reported
yesterday by the  Associated Press .  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  