-- Maruti Suzuki to Reopen Factory After Monthlong Lockout
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p   a n d   K a r t h i k e y a n   S u n d a r a m
-- 2012-08-17T04:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/maruti-suzuki-to-reopen-factory-after-monthlong-lockout.html
Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the
country’s biggest carmaker by volume, will reopen a factory more
than a month after a deadly riot forced the company to halt
production of its two best-selling models.  The carmaker, majority owned by  Japan ’s  Suzuki Motor Corp. (7269) ,
will restart output on Aug. 21 “step-by-step,” Chairman R.C. Bhargava told reporters in New Delhi yesterday. Maruti will stop
relying on contract workers on its assembly line and deploy
armed guards in and around its factory, he said.  The resumption of the Manesar plant, which makes the Swift
hatchback and the DZire sedan, is Maruti’s first step toward its
recovery from the carmaker’s most violent labor clash ever. The
company, which lost 680 million rupees ($12.2 million) a day
during the closure, faces the challenge of restoring normalcy at
a factory where managers have fresh memories of being beaten by
workers and where salaries may rise to avoid labor discontent.  “The policy of not using contract workers is a welcome
change and that should go a long way in reducing worker anger,”
said  Mahantesh Sabarad , an analyst at Fortune Equity Brokers
 India  Ltd. in Mumbai. “All this involves a cost and that means
there will be a marginal drop in  profitability .”  Widespread wage disparity across India’s automotive
industry is a major source of discontent among laborers as
contract workers tend to earn a fraction of permanent employees,
according to Ammar Master, an analyst at LMC Automotive.  Shares Rise  Maruti rose as much as 1.9 percent and traded at 1,180.25
rupees, up 0.7 percent, as of 9:47 a.m. in Mumbai. Since the
July 18 riot the stock has declined 3.8 percent, while the
benchmark Sensitive Index has gained 3.5 percent. In  Tokyo ,
Suzuki shares climbed 1.4 percent.  Maruti will turn 1,800 contract workers into permanent
employees after they clear tests that will be conducted from
Sept. 2, Bhargava said.  The Haryana state will deploy 500 armed policemen in and
around the factory, and the company will set up a private
security force with about 100 people for the plant, he said.  “This kind of security cannot be long-term, but there’s no
option now,” said Bhargava. “As we go along, we will keep
assessing the situation.”  Terminating Workers  A general manager was killed and dozens of executives
injured when the riot erupted last month at Manesar, located
about 50 kilometers (31 miles) southwest of  New Delhi . Three
days later, Bhargava announced a lockout at the factory, one of
Maruti’s two plants, pending a police probe.  The  automaker  has terminated services of 500 regular
workers at the Manesar plant, where a total of 3,300 workers
were employed, Bhargava said yesterday. The police have arrested
about 154 workers, including 12 executive members of the union,
for being involved in the riot, he said.  The arrest of the union leaders has helped boost the
automaker’s confidence in ensuring adequate security to reopen
the factory, said Bhargava.  Maruti’s management and the workers’ union have blamed each
other for the Manesar incident, while authorities said they
would pursue the arrest of union workers who may have instigated
the violence.  According to Maruti, the dispute began after a worker beat
up a supervisor on the shop floor. The union then prevented the
management from taking disciplinary action, blocking managers
from leaving the factory after work, Maruti said. Workers
attacked managers after talks to resolve the dispute failed,
with employees setting property on fire and ransacking offices,
according to the company.  ‘Cannot Understand’  The labor union has said it was keen to have discussions to
resolve the issue and workers were attacked by bouncers working
for Maruti while discussions were on with guild leaders.  “We believe our human resource policies are excellent, but
we cannot understand how people, who we were in dialogue with,
did what they did,” said Bhargava.  Following the violence, Maruti will reduce the number of
contract workers -- estimated to account for about half of the
company’s workforce before the riot -- to less than 20 percent,
S.Y. Siddiqui, the head of human resources, said at the press
conference. These workers won’t be engaged in direct production
activities, he said.  The automaker aims to build 150 cars a day when it reopens
the factory next week, Bhargava said. Initially it will start
operations with 300 workers, he said. The plant has a capacity
to assemble 1,700 vehicles daily.  The disruption came amid a slowdown in car sales in India
as high gasoline prices and  interest rates  deterred buyers. The
 Society of Indian Automobile Manufacturers  on July 10 revised
its annual forecast, predicting industry sales to expand 9
percent to 11 percent in the year ending March 2013, from an
estimate of 10 percent to 12 percent given in April.  India’s  economic growth  slowed to the weakest in almost a
decade in the quarter ended March and the rupee slumped to a
record low amid a paralysis in policy making that has hurt
efforts to spur investment as a global recovery falters.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net ;
Karthikeyan Sundaram in New Delhi at 
 kmeenakshisu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  