-- Asian Currencies Decline on Signs Europe Crisis Hurting Exports
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2012-08-16T09:33:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/asian-currencies-rally-after-wen-s-china-monetary-easing-comment.html
India ’s rupee led declines in Asian
currencies on concern Europe’s debt crisis will hurt global
growth and the region’s exports.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan Asia  Dollar Index  fell for a fifth
day after India,  Indonesia , South Korea and  Taiwan  reported this
month that overseas sales shrank. Thailand’s shipments dropped
2.7 percent in July after a 4.24 percent slide in June, a
Bloomberg survey of economists showed before an official report
next week. Figures released this week showed  euro-zone   gross
domestic product  contracted 0.4 percent in the second quarter.  “If you look at the economic data from the euro zone, they
have been still sliding, and so, we are still going to see some
weakness in Asian exports in coming months,” said Nalin
Chutchotitham, a Bangkok-based analyst at  Kasikornbank Pcl. (KBANK)   The rupee weakened 0.4 percent from Aug. 14 to 55.8750 per
dollar as of 2:28 p.m. in Mumbai, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. South Korea’s won fell 0.4 percent to 1,134.15 from
Aug. 14. Financial markets in the two countries were closed
yesterday for public holidays. Taiwan’s dollar declined 0.1
percent to NT$30.020 and the Philippine peso depreciated to
42.285 from 42.270 yesterday.  The Asia Dollar Index, which tracks the region’s most
active currencies, has retreated 0.5 percent from an almost
three-month high of 115.73 reached on Aug. 9.  The rupee fell to the lowest level in almost two weeks on
concern the nation’s current-account deficit will widen from a
record as exports contract.  India Inflation  Merchandise shipments declined 14.8 percent in July, the
biggest drop in 35 months, while imports slid 7.6 percent,
Director General of Foreign Trade Anup Pujari said on Aug. 14.
That left a trade deficit of $15.5 billion. The rupee also
weakened on concern the fastest  inflation  among the largest
 emerging markets  leaves little room for policy measures to
stimulate growth, according to Edelweiss Financial Advisors Ltd.  The  shortfall  in India’s current account, the broadest
measure of trade, widened to a record 4.2 percent of gross
domestic product in the year through March 2012 from 2.7 percent
in the previous 12 months, according to the central bank.  “A widening trade deficit highlighted the woes facing the
local currency,” analysts at Edelweiss, including Mumbai-based
Vinay Khattar, wrote in a research report today. “The current-
account deficit remains a particular source of concern.”  Yuan Fixing  China ’s  yuan  dropped for a second day as the central bank
weakened its daily fixing to the lowest level since November to
help exporters. The currency fell 0.05 percent to 6.3658 per
dollar in Shanghai.  The People’s Bank of China reduced the  reference rate  by
0.02 percent to 6.3495 per dollar, the least since Nov. 29,
after the Dollar Index climbed 0.2 percent yesterday. Premier
 Wen Jiabao  said there’s “growing room for monetary-policy
operations,” during a two-day visit to the eastern province of
Zhejiang, according to a report on state television.  “China will keep the yuan weaker to alleviate pressure on
exporters,” said  Daniel Chan , executive vice president at Glory
Sky Global Markets Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “There’s no surprise in
what Wen said. More aggressive easing is just a matter of timing
and investors are waiting for genuine actions.”  The Philippine peso touched a seven-week low of 42.43 per
dollar on signs the government favors a weaker currency and
after growth in  remittances  slowed.  Slowing Remittances  Funds sent home by Filipinos living abroad rose 4.2 percent
in June from a year earlier, the least in 15 months, the central
bank reported yesterday. The government said this week it’s
looking at raising money in a way that won’t fuel gains in the
currency that would hurt exporters.  Overseas sales  and
remittances account for about 30 percent of the $225 billion
economy.  “The market is cognizant that the bias of the monetary
authority is for the peso to move in line with regional
currencies,” said Roland Avante, president of Philippine
Business Bank in Manila.  Elsewhere, Thailand’s baht was little changed against the
dollar at 31.54. Malaysia’s ringgit advanced 0.1 percent to
3.1294 and Indonesia’s rupiah added 0.1 percent to 9,503.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  