-- Asian Stocks Advance as Wen Signals More China Stimulus
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-08-16T10:18:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/asian-stocks-advance-as-wen-signals-more-china-stimulus.html
Asian  stocks  rose, with the region’s
benchmark index erasing yesterday’s decline, after Premier  Wen
Jiabao  said slower inflation has given  China  more room to adjust
monetary policy.  Fanuc Corp. (6954) , a maker of industrial robots used in Chinese
factories, gained 4.3 percent in  Tokyo .  Goodman Fielder  Ltd.
fell 1.8 percent after the Australian baker said it hasn’t
received a takeover proposal from Wilmar International Ltd.
Daphne International Holdings Ltd. surged 8.2 percent in Hong
Kong after first-half profit increased at the footwear maker.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index (MXAP)  rose 0.5 percent to 120.47 as
of 7:15 p.m. in Tokyo, with three stocks climbing for every
three that declined. The gauge fell 7 percent from this year’s
high on Feb. 29 through yesterday on concern earnings would be
hurt by Europe’s debt crisis and China’s slowdown.  “Wen reiterated that the government is trying to support
growth,” said Benjamin Tam, who helps manage about $1.5 billion
at IG Investment Ltd. in Hong Kong. ‘The market has been
expecting the Chinese government to do more to boost economic
growth in the second half.’’  The regional benchmark index traded at 12.5 times estimated
earnings compared with 13.6 for the  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index (SPXL1) 
and 11.6 for the Stoxx Europe 600 Index, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Nikkei, Kospi  Japan’s Nikkei 225 Stock Average increased 1.9 percent and
 Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index (AS51)  gained 1.1 percent. South Korea’s
Kospi Index was little changed percent after a holiday
yesterday. Shanghai Composite Index declined 0.3 percent.
Singapore’s Straits Times Index was little changed.  Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index slid 0.4 percent. China Mobile
Ltd. dragged the index lower, dropping 5 percent after the
world’s No. 1 phone company by subscribers reported earnings
that missed estimates.  China’s state radio reported Wen as saying there’s
“growing room for monetary policy operation.” He said downward
pressure on the economy remained “relatively large,” according
to state radio.  The comments may bolster speculation China will cut banks’
reserve requirements or benchmark  interest rates  again after
inflation slowed to a 30-month low in July, export growth
collapsed and new  yuan  loans trailed estimates. A report today
showed foreign direct investment in China fell to the lowest
level in two years in July.  “The Premier seldom makes such direct remarks, but he
might want to emphasize that government wants to support the
economy by monetary policies,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a Tokyo-
based strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., which
oversees about $70 billion. “Wen’s remarks are pushing it, and
that’s a positive catalyst for the markets.”  Fanuc, Komatsu  Fanuc gained 4.3 percent to 13,120 yen in Tokyo. Komatsu
Ltd., a Japanese construction-equipment maker that gets about 10
percent of its revenue from China, advanced 3.3 percent to 1,742
yen.  Daphne jumped 8.2 percent to HK$8.21 in Hong Kong after its
profit for the six months ended June 30 rose 9.6 percent from a
year earlier.  Lenovo Group Ltd. (992)  gained 6.3 percent to HK$6.60
after the personal-computer maker posted a 30 percent increase
in first-quarter profit, expanding market share to almost pull
even with leader Hewlett-Packard Co.  Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700) , China’s No. 1 Internet company,
climbed 6.4 percent to HK$244.60 after its second-quarter profit
jumped 32 percent as it drew more advertisers to its social-
networking websites and added online-game players.  Of the 1,008 companies listed on the Asian benchmark gauge,
118 are reporting earnings this week, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Of the 428 companies that have posted quarterly
results since July 1, and for which Bloomberg has estimates,
fewer than half have beaten expectations.  U.S. Manufacturing  Futures on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.1 percent
today. The gauge advanced 0.1 percent yesterday in New York as
investors weighed manufacturing data for clues on whether the
 Federal Reserve  will move to stimulate the economy.  Industrial production in the U.S. increased in July, while
a separate report showed manufacturing in the New York area
unexpectedly contracted in August for the first time since
October.  “The U.S. economic data are mixed and business sentiment
is neither good nor bad,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees
about $633 million in Tokyo at Ichiyoshi Investment Management
Co. “That’s boosting expectations the Fed may add to
quantitative easing.”  Goodman Fielder lost 1.8 percent to 54.5 Australian cents
in Sydney. The company said it hasn’t received a takeover
proposal from Singapore-based Wilmar after the world’s largest
palm-oil processor said it had planned a bid.  Wilmar’s Chief Executive Officer Kuok Khoon Hong said
yesterday the company had discussed offer prices with Goodman’s
board after taking a 10 percent stake in the baker on Feb. 28.
There was no formal bid and Wilmar was now prepared to sell its
holding, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in  Hong Kong  at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  