-- Australia’s Parliament Passes Laws to Deter Asylum Seekers
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-16T23:04:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/australia-s-parliament-passes-laws-to-deter-asylum-seekers-1-.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  will reopen offshore detention centers for refugees
after parliament passed laws to deter asylum seekers, as she
tries to resolve an issue damaging her government.  In a policy backflip, refugees trying to reach Australia by
boat will be sent to camps on the South Pacific island of  Nauru 
and  Papua New Guinea  for processing, under amendments to the
Migration Act approved by the upper house Senate yesterday.  While the number of people seeking asylum in Australia is
dwarfed by applications to the U.S., the issue has dogged
Gillard’s government, which is battling to claw back from near
record-low approval ratings before elections due next year. The
shift in policy was criticized by human rights campaigners who
said the new laws were arbitrary and discriminatory.  “Australia’s new offshore processing law is a giant step
backward in the treatment of refugees and asylum seekers,” Bill Frelick, refugee program director at  Human Rights Watch , said in
an e-mailed statement. “Australia again seeks to shunt
desperate boat people to remote camps, perhaps for years, to
punish them for arriving uninvited by sea.”  The minority Labor government has come under attack from
the Liberal-National opposition as increasing numbers of
refugees pay Indonesian smugglers to ferry them in overcrowded
boats to Australia, resulting in hundreds of deaths.  Pacific Solution  Processing refugees in Papua New Guinea and Nauru would
mark a return to former Prime Minister  John Howard ’s so-called
Pacific Solution that was scrapped after Labor won office in
2007.  Almost 1,000 asylum seekers, often from war-torn Middle
Eastern and South Asian nations, have drowned in the waters
between Indonesia and Australia since 2001, former Defense Force
chief Angus Houston said Aug. 13 in delivering a report that was
the catalyst for Gillard deciding to reopen the camps. The
fatalities have ramped up in the past three years, with 604
people losing their lives since October 2009, he said.  “Gillard’s policy reversal shows she’s willing to wear
some short-term pain so she can try to eventually neutralize a
damaging issue,” said Paul Strangio, a senior lecturer in
politics at  Monash University  in  Melbourne . “While the merits
of offshore processing are debatable, at least there now seems a
real effort to prevent drownings.”  Gillard said yesterday she backs all 22 recommendations in
Houston’s report, including increasing Australia’s refugee
intake to 20,000 from about 13,700 currently and seeking
discussions with Malaysia to create an offshore processing
center there.  The nation’s first female prime minister said earlier this
week she wants to start processing of refugees at Nauru and
Papua New Guinea within a month of the laws being passed.  Howard’s Policy  While asylum seekers have been arriving by boat in
Australia since the  Vietnam War  in the 1970s, the issue became
more politicized about a decade ago when Howard’s Liberal-
National government detained refugees, including children, in
offshore processing camps or in isolated detention centers in
the outback.  Some asylum seekers responded to their detention with
riots, suicides and by sewing their lips together to protest,
with a United Nations report released in 2002 finding their
treatment “inhumane and degrading.”  In August 2001, Howard refused to allow 430 asylum seekers
on the MV Tampa, a Norwegian freighter, to enter Australian
waters and ordered soldiers to board the ship. His bid to deter
people smugglers included orders to the Navy to “turn back the
boats,” a phrase current Liberal-National leader  Tony Abbott 
repeats today as opposition policy.  Abbott has blamed Labor’s closure of the camps for a rise
in the number of refugee boats arriving and increasing deaths at
sea.  People Smugglers  “The tragedy of Australia’s situation over the last four
years is that the people smugglers have been in charge of who
comes to our country,” Abbott told reporters in Canberra
yesterday. “Under John Howard, the government was in charge.”  While a poll published Aug. 7 showed support for Labor rose
to the highest level in six months, Gillard is still tracking
toward defeat in next year’s elections. Labor’s primary vote
increased five points to 33 percent from two weeks before, while
support for Abbott’s coalition dropped one point to 45 percent,
the Newspoll for the Australian newspaper showed.  UN Response  UNHCR, the UN refugee agency, said Aug. 13 it needs to
study Gillard’s Nauru and Papua New Guinea proposals in more
detail.  “The efficacy and integrity of such proposals will need to
be assessed against their ability to deliver effective
protection outcomes to refugees identified as needing protection
under international law, not least through the 1951 Refugee
Convention to which  Australia  is a party,” UNHCR said in a
statement on its website.  The nation received 15,441 asylum applications last year,
compared with 60,587 in the U.S. and 43,759 for  Sweden ,
according to the Refugee Council of Australia. While the
political debate is focused on so-called boat people, 6,316
people seeking asylum in 2010-11 arrived in Australia by air,
compared with 5,175 by boat, the council says.  “The quality of the political debate from the government
and opposition this week yet again leaves many Australians
despairing about whether our political representatives have the
interest or the capacity to deal with the complex nature of the
regional challenges in refugee protection,” the council said in
a statement Aug. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  