-- Avusa Investors Flout PIC to Approve Mvelaphanda Takeover
-- B y   J a n i c e   K e w
-- 2012-08-16T15:16:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/avusa-investors-flout-pic-to-approve-mvelaphanda-takeover.html
Avusa Ltd. (AVU)  shareholders approved the
South African media company’s sale to a unit of  Mvelaphanda
Group Ltd. (MVG) , rejecting opposition by the state-employee pension-
fund manager that’s the second-biggest investor.  Shareholders owning 78.5 percent of Avusa stock approved
the transaction at a meeting in Johannesburg today, the
publishing company said today in a statement. The Public
Investment Corp., Africa’s largest fund manager, was among the
21.4 percent of shareholders that voted against the sale, PIC
Chief Executive Officer Elias Masilela said in a mobile-phone
text message.  Mvelaphanda, an investment company with stakes in financial
institution  Absa Group Ltd. (ASA)  and builder  Group Five Ltd. (GRF) , is
Johannesburg-based Avusa’s  biggest  owner with a 21.3 percent
stake, with the PIC ranking  second  with about 17.3 percent.
Mvelaphanda is renaming the holding company that owns Avusa’s
stock as Times Media Group Ltd. and plans to list the combined
unit on the Johannesburg exchange on Sept. 10.  Avusa’s South African assets include the Sunday Times
weekly, Financial Mail magazine and Summit TV business-news
channel. It’s also a partner in a venture with London-based
 Pearson Plc (PSON)  that publishes Business Day, the country’s biggest
business newspaper.  Investors in Avusa can choose to get 24 rand in cash, 1.48
shares in Times Media Group, or a combination of cash and the
stock, for each share they hold. Avusa rose 6.1 percent to 22.80
rand at the close in Johannesburg, the day’s best performance on
the  FTSE/JSE Africa All Shares Index (JALSH) , for a market value of 2.84
billion rand ($345 million).  The PIC urged Avusa shareholders in a letter Aug. 8 to
withhold approval of the deal, saying the media company is
already reorganizing and would be taking on too much debt with
the transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Janice Kew in Johannesburg at 
 jkew4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at 
 cperri@bloomberg.net  