-- Best Buy Founder Schulze Asks Board to Conduct Due Diligence
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-08-16T20:16:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/best-buy-founder-schulze-asks-board-to-conduct-due-diligence-1-.html
Best Buy Co. (BBY)  founder Richard
Schulze, who has offered to take the retailer private, repeated
a request that the company’s board allow him to conduct due
diligence.  In a letter today, Schulze requested the board’s consent to
allow him to form a group to support his proposal to acquire
Best Buy for $24 to $26 a share.  Schulze, who  held  more than 20 percent of Richfield,
Minnesota-based Best Buy as of June, plans to contribute at
least $1 billion in equity from that stake. The rest would be
financed through a combination of private equity investment and
debt financing, according to today’s letter. Credit Suisse Group
AG “is also highly confident” it can arrange the debt
financing, he said.  Schulze initially sought permission to conduct due
diligence Aug. 6 when he proposed acquiring Best Buy. He’s
recruiting executives including former Chief Executive Officer
Brad Anderson to revive sales as  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ,  Wal-Mart
Stores Inc. (WMT)  and other rivals have lured customers.  Best Buy reiterated in an e-mailed statement today that it
will consider Schulze’s letter pertaining to his “highly
conditional unsolicited indication of interest.”  The retailer said Minnesota law doesn’t prevent Schulze
from further exploring and engaging in discussions with private
equity partners and that he doesn’t need the consent of the
board to bring forward a proposal naming them.  Schulze said in his earlier letter to the board that under
Minnesota corporate law he can’t form a bidding group with
buyout firms, which would allow him to line up the equity,
without the board’s permission.  Best Buy  rose  5.4 percent to $20.41 at the close in  New
York . The shares have dropped 13 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at  cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  