-- Bill Clinton and the Journalists Who Love-Hated Him
-- B y   A d a m   K i r s c h
-- 2012-08-16T22:30:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/bill-clinton-and-the-journalists-who-love-hated-him.html
A highlight of  Newt Gingrich ’s ill-
starred run for the Republican presidential nomination came
during a televised  debate  in January when the moderator asked
him a pointed question about his messy divorce.  Gingrich responded with an assault on the media: “I think
the destructive, vicious, negative nature of much of the news
media makes it harder to govern this country, harder to attract
decent people to run for public office.” The remarks won an
ovation from the audience, and for the rest of his candidacy
Gingrich attacked the media as often as possible.  We often hear that reporters and pundits are scandal-
obsessed, focused on only the horse-race aspect of politics,
unconsciously biased, and generally an obstacle to honest
communication between the public and their leaders.  Tension has always existed between those who govern and
those who report on government -- just recall the Pentagon
Papers or the Washington Post’s coverage of Watergate. But
today’s climate, in which large swaths of the public see the
media as a  corrosive influence  on political life, really started
to emerge in the 1990s. And the classic treatment of the
subject, which still helps to explain a great deal about
American politics, is the novel “Primary Colors,” a roman a clef
about  Bill Clinton  that is actually, at heart, a story about the
corruption of politics by the news media.  Instant Notoriety  When it was published in 1996, “Primary Colors,” like
“Democracy” a century earlier, gained immediate notoriety
because it appeared anonymously. Eventually, the veteran
political journalist Joe Klein admitted to being the author; but
until then, anonymity was a brilliant marketing move, allowing
readers to wonder just how much inside knowledge went into the
novel’s portrait of Bill Clinton’s 1992 presidential campaign.  Anyone old enough to remember the strange Democratic
primary of that year will be able to identify most of the
novel’s characters. Governor Jack Stanton, the charismatic,
brilliant, needy, irresponsible candidate, is plainly Clinton,
down to the sound of their names, just as the steely, ambitious
Susan Stanton is  Hillary Rodham Clinton , pre-Senate and pre-
State Department; and so on down the list. Only the narrator,
Henry Burton -- whose name echoes Jack Burden in “All the King’s
Men” -- doesn’t correspond so precisely to a real-life figure.  “Primary Colors” is a satire, but Clinton’s actual story is
so lurid it can hardly be satirized. When, in the first pages,
we see candidate Jack Stanton casually bedding a librarian he
meets at a campaign stop, we think of Monica Lewinsky. Likewise,
when Stanton’s New Hampshire campaign is rocked by the
revelation that he had an affair with one Cashmere McLeod, the
name might seem over the top -- until we remember  Gennifer
Flowers.   “Primary Colors” raises the stakes by introducing a scandal
that seems to have no basis in fact -- though Klein cleverly
keeps the reader wondering whether he knows more than we do.
Stanton, Burton is shocked to learn, may have impregnated a 15-
year-old black girl, the daughter of a family friend. If even
the possibility of this were to become known, Stanton’s already
imperiled candidacy would be ruined. Cynically, he entrusts
Burton, who is black, with a mission to intimidate the girl’s
family into keeping quiet -- knowing that his own blackness will
make him all the more effective as a fixer.  In summary, then, the plot of “Primary Colors” seems to
follow a familiar model: an idealist brought low by the dirty
business of politics. The difference is that this novel never
manages to sound really outraged by Stanton’s sexual
misdemeanors.  Empathetic Overspill  Rather, Klein, like many of Clinton’s real-life admirers,
sees them as the inevitable overspill of the candidate’s famous
empathy, his need for personal connection with everyone he
encounters. The novel’s first page describes Stanton’s
caressing, complicit handshake:  “He might put [his hand] on your elbow, or up by your
biceps; these are basic, reflexive moves. He is interested in
you. He is honored to meet you.... If he doesn’t know you all
that well and you’ve just told him something ’important,’
something earnest or emotional, he will lock in and honor you
with a two-hander, his left hand overwhelming your wrist and
forearm. He’ll flash that famous misty look of his. And he’ll
mean it.”  This kind of touch might get out of control, but it can
hardly seem unwelcome. And Klein never leaves us in any doubt
that Stanton is a genuine idealist, who seeks office only in
order to do good. “I don’t think I’d be baring my butt for
random whipping by that self-righteous, hypocritical pack” of
critics, as Stanton tells Burton, “if I didn’t believe that you
can, on occasion, make people’s lives a little better.” Whenever
we see Stanton consoling an unemployed voter or enthusing about
an adult-literacy program, we are meant to be sure that the
nation would be better off with him as president.  No, the real animus of “Primary Colors” is directed against
those critics, the members of the media. (This alone should have
been a clue that “Anonymous” was a journalist.) Stanton, Klein
shows, is a master of retail politics; like Clinton, the
“comeback kid,” he is able to pull his New Hampshire campaign
out of a tailspin of scandal by the sheer energy with which he
presses the flesh. But once the campaign goes national,
journalists -- whom the novel refers to in political lingo as
“scorps,” short for scorpions -- surround the candidate like a
bubble, depriving him of oxygen and making it impossible for
voters to really hear him.  Media Hypocrisy  Stanton perceives himself not as a corrupt politician but
as a victim of media scandalmongering, and the novel basically
agrees with him: “Someday, I predict, there will be a fraternal
order of those raped by the media,” he rants. If it weren’t for
journalists’ obsession with scandal, their reduction of every
substantive issue to a question of image, Stanton would not have
to threaten that 15-year-old girl. By shifting the guilt for the
dysfunction of modern politics onto the press, Klein effectively
exonerates the candidate and his handlers, who are seen as smart
players of a game whose rules they did not make.  In the years since “Primary Colors,” changes in the media
landscape have made Klein’s critique more acutely relevant. One
of the novel’s charges is that scandal sheets such as the
National Enquirer dig up dirt -- Clinton’s affair with Gennifer
Flowers, for example -- which the mainstream media go on to
legitimize by reporting on the tabloids’ coverage. This dynamic,
in which scandal moves from the fringe to the mainstream, has
been hypercharged by the Web: The Drudge Report became famous
during the  Monica Lewinsky  scandal as a clearinghouse for the
latest rumors and tips. Klein’s complaint that journalists don’t
respect the line between public and private life now seems
laughably quaint -- thanks in large part to Bill Clinton
himself, who made “I did not have sexual relations with that
woman” a national punch line.  From “Democracy” down to “Primary Colors,” the best
American political novels have been about the gulf between our
ideals and the sordid reality that lies behind them. Their
subjects are bribery, extortion, blackmail and scandal; their
villains are corrupt party bosses, ambitious pols and reckless
journalists. But perhaps the recurrence of the theme of
disillusionment offers some reason for hope. It is only because
Americans have an indestructible faith in the power of our
ideals and institutions that we are perpetually shocked to hear
about their failure.  Political fiction can be seen as the necessary antidote to
our credulity. The novelist reminds us that politicians are all
too human; that from the founders to the present day, our
politics have never been pure. But that doesn’t seem to stop us
from hoping that, one day, they will be.  (Adam Kirsch is a senior editor at the New Republic and a
columnist for Tablet magazine. He is the author of “Why Trilling
Matters.” The opinions expressed are his own. Read  Part 1 ,  Part
2 ,  Part 3  and  Part 4  of his series on classic political novels.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  U.S.’s ethanol policy  and
on  Israel’s threat  to strike  Iran ; Stephen L. Carter asks
whether anything is really  “politically impossible” ;  Noah
Feldman  on  Egypt’s democratic coup ; William Pesek on  reviving
India’s economy ;  Amity Shlaes  on  lessons of the lobster trade ;
 Jonathan Weil  on  Standard Chartered ’s  money laundering
settlement .  To contact the writer of this article:
Adam Kirsch at  adam.kirsch@hotmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net  