-- Black Caesar’s Killing Sparks Civil War on London Stage
-- B y   M a r k   B e e c h
-- 2012-08-16T23:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/black-caesar-s-killing-sparks-civil-war-on-london-stage.html
The dictator has fallen and there’s
a power vacuum. The conspirators who plotted against him are
divided. Their country is riven and anarchy threatens.  At  London ’s Noel Coward Theatre, ancient  Rome  is transposed
to an anonymous state for the  Royal Shakespeare Company’s 
“ Julius Caesar .” It could be modern  Iraq ,  Libya  or  Egypt  or
perhaps the Syria and  Zimbabwe  of the future.  The production’s unique selling point is its all-black
cast, led by a magisterial  Jeffery Kissoon  as Caesar. Things
start promisingly with a street carnival already taking place
across the stage as the audience arrives. The pace is fast and
the action bowls along with those familiar quotes “beware the
ides of March” and “et tu, Brute.”  Worrying about plot spoilers seems pointless when every
school kid knows about Caesar’s demise.  I’ve seen more convincing Shakespearean stabbings. You can
see Caesar breathing as he lies on the ground.  A later murder, with a South African-style “necklace”
tire, is almost laughable. The victim is led away, and there is
a backstage flash of red and a pathetic puff of smoke, like
something out of a children’s magic show.  With Caesar disposed of before the interval, the plotters
immediately start their tedious post mortems. These continue for
most of the rest of the play. Director Gregory Doran leaves some
actors with little to do but stand motionless while others wring
their blood-covered hands.  Antony’s Rhetoric  The crowd livens up with an exceptional “friends, Romans,
countrymen” speech from Mark Antony, played by Ray Fearon (he’s
moved right on since his time as garage mechanic Nathan Harding
in TV soap opera “Coronation Street”). The power of his
rhetoric, praising Caesar rather than burying him, turns the mob
-- and, it seems, many in the audience -- against the killers.  Fearon’s controlled power is more impressive than  Cyril Nri 
as Caius Cassius, and Paterson Joseph as Marcus Brutus. Both
whip themselves into unconvincing rages. Their military defeats
come like slow-moving car crashes you can anticipate a full 20
minutes before they happen.  Civil war should make for riveting drama. Yet there comes a
point, very rare for the RSC, where the whole becomes as much
endurance as entertainment.  Things pick up when Kissoon makes a brief reprise in
ghostly white. All that’s left of the emperor is a Saddam-like
statue at the back of the set, which finally topples with over-
heavy symbolism.  Rating: **  “Julius Caesar” is at the Noel Coward Theatre, 85-88
Saint Martin’s Lane, WC2N 4AU, through Sept. 15. Information:
+44-20-7759-8010 or  http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk .  The production tours to Aylesbury, Bradford, Salford,
Norwich and Cardiff through Oct. 27.  Information:  http://www.rsc.org.uk/whats-on/julius-caesar/   (Mark Beech writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Lewis Lapham 
on history and  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend.  To contact the writer on the story:
Mark Beech in London at   mbeech@bloomberg.net 
or  http://twitter.com/Mark_Beech .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 