-- Brazil’s Cetip Bets Bond Trading Platform to Tap Growing Demand
-- B y   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-08-16T16:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/brazil-s-cetip-bets-bond-trading-platform-to-tap-growing-demand.html
Cetip SA-Mercados Organizados,
 Brazil ’s largest securities clearing house, is starting a new
electronic bond-trading platform to tap into surging demand for
corporate debt as  interest rates  tumble to record lows.  Cetip developed the system, called Cetip Trader, with
Atlanta-based  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , operator of the
second-largest U.S. futures market. The platform is the first in
Brazil to combine electronic trading, price data, and settlement
of trades in a single tool, according to Cetip.  The Brazilian company is betting that a surge in bond sales
as policy makers cut the benchmark borrowing rate to a record
low and the government boosts efforts to stimulate local long-
term borrowing will increase demand to trade corporate
securities. Corporate debt outstanding rose to 452 billion reais
($224 billion) in July, a 20 percent jump from a year ago,
according to the nation’s capital markets association.  “We’re trying to anticipate this need in the market,”
Luiz Fernando Fleury, Cetip’s president, said at an event in  Sao
Paulo  today. “If we don’t, transactions won’t have anywhere to
go.”  Average daily trading volume of non-government debt in
Brazil’s local market was 1.1 billion reais ($544 million) in
July, according to Brazil’s bond market association, known as
Anbima.  Trading volume in investment-grade dollar bonds in the U.S.
market on July 31 totaled $12.7 billion, according to Trace, the
bond price-reporting system of the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority.  Cetip  shares  were little changed at 25.51 reais as of 12:51
p.m. in Sao Paulo. They have declined 5.3 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  