-- Brazil’s June Retail Sales Increase 1.5%, Most Since January
-- B y   D a v i d   B i l l e r
-- 2012-08-16T16:17:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/brazil-s-june-retail-sales-increase-1-5-most-since-january-3-.html
Brazil ’s  retail sales  unexpectedly
jumped in June, as an increase in furniture and appliance
purchases signaled that  interest-rate  and tax cuts may be
spurring demand. Swap rates rose.  The volume of sales climbed 1.5 percent, compared with a
drop of 0.8 percent in May and the biggest rise since a 3.2
percent jump in January, the national statistics agency said
today in Rio de Janeiro. The median forecast of 38 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg was for a 0.3 percent decline. Annual
sales jumped 9.5 percent.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has granted tax
breaks for goods including furniture, appliances and automobiles
to prop up demand and spur faltering growth. The central bank
has also cut its  benchmark interest rate  to a record low 8
percent, while Rousseff’s administration has successfully
pressured banks to lower lending rates.  “There’s strength across the board,” Italo Lombardi,
Latin America economist at Standard Chartered Bank, said by
phone from  New York . “It’s a good sign. This reinforces the
idea that we may be seeing a stronger recovery. We may be
leaving this soft patch behind in terms of demand.”  The profits of Brazil’s biggest retailer, Cia. Brasileira
de Distribuicao Grupo Pao de Acucar, rose 180 percent in the
second quarter. Fellow retailer  Magazine Luiza SA (MGLU3)  saw a nearly
five-fold growth in second-quarter profits, while profits at
 Natura Cosmeticos SA (NATU3) , Latin America’s largest cosmetics company,
increased 14 percent.  Growth Slowdown  Brazil’s economy  grew  at a 0.8 percent annualized rate in
the first quarter, down from 2.7 percent last year and 7.5
percent in 2010. Latin America’s biggest economy will grow 1.8
percent this year, its second-worst performance since 2003,
according to the latest central bank survey of about 100
analysts. The economy will be growing at a 4 percent annual pace
by year-end and will enter 2013 at “cruising speed,” Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters today.  “Policy makers have become increasingly confident that
growth is going to recover quite strongly next year,”  Neil Shearing , chief  emerging markets  economist at Capital Economics
Ltd., said by telephone from  London . “I don’t think that’s
going to be the case, but they clearly do and I think we’re
getting close to the end of the rate cutting cycle.”  Swap rates on the contract maturing in January 2014, the
most traded in  Sao Paulo  today, rose 14 basis points, or 0.14
percentage point, to 7.89 percent at 12:57 p.m. local time. The
real rose 0.1 percent to 2.0207 per dollar.  Rate Cuts  The central bank has lowered the Selic benchmark rate 450
points since last August. The retail sales results may alter
expectations for further cuts, Ines Filipa, chief economist at
brokerage Icap do Brasil CTVM, said.  “There were traders in the market yesterday expecting two
cuts of 50 basis points, one in August and one in October,”
Filipa said by telephone from  Rio de Janeiro . “The results from
today slightly decrease the expectations for the 50-point
adjustment in the October meeting.”  Bolstered by government cuts in the IPI tax on
industrialized goods, furniture and appliance sales increased
5.3 percent in June, compared with a 3.3 percent decline in May,
the statistics agency said.  Spending Power  Brazilian consumers, whose spending has powered growth,
have been supported by a strong labor market, even as  job
creation  slows. Unemployment in May was 5.8 percent, a record
low for the month.  The consumer default rate “has reached its maximum and is
starting to fall, and that will open space for consumers to buy
goods,” Filipa said. “The perspective is for a recovery of the
economy that could have a positive impact on  consumer
confidence .”  The broader retail index, which includes the sale of cars
and construction materials, rose 6.1 percent from May and 12.3
percent from the previous year, the statistics agency said.  Sales of vehicles and auto parts increased 16.4 percent in
June from May. Higher vehicle sales also reflect the government
tax cuts, said Rafael Leao, economist at Austin Rating.  “Consumers don’t know how long the IPI cuts will
continue,” Leao said by telephone from Sao Paulo. “They could
be extended” beyond Aug. 31, when they are scheduled to expire,
he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Biller in Boston at 
 dbiller1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  