-- Brazilian Swap Rates Rise as Retail Sales Rebound; Real Gains
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-08-16T22:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/brazilian-swap-rates-rise-as-retail-sales-rebound-real-gains.html
Brazilian swap rates rose the most
in almost three weeks after retail sales unexpectedly surged and
employers added more jobs in July.  Rates on contracts due January 2014 increased 12 basis
points, or 0.12 percentage point, the most since July 27, to
7.87 percent. The real rose for a second day, gaining 0.3
percent to 2.0173 per dollar.  Traders pared bets that the central bank will sustain the
pace of interest-rate cuts after the national statistics agency
said today that retail sales jumped 1.5 percent in June
following a 0.8 percent drop the prior month. The gain was
bigger than any of the projected increases in a Bloomberg survey
of 38 economists, whose median forecast was for sales to fall
0.3 percent.  “The numbers show a trend for a stronger economy,”Marco Freire, head of fixed-income at Franklin Templeton Investimentos
Brasil, said by phone from Sao Paulo. “The economy is
responding with much more force than the market expected.”  Latin America ’s biggest economy created 142,496
government-registered jobs in July, more than the 140,563 jobs
created a year earlier, the Labor Ministry said
today on its website. Economists forecast 93,750 new jobs in the
month, according to the median estimate from 12 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  GDP Growth  The economy will grow 1.8 percent this year, according to
the latest central bank survey of about 100 analysts, down from
an expansion of 2.7 percent last year.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s government has granted tax
breaks for goods including furniture, appliances and automobiles
to prop up demand and spur faltering growth. The central bank
has also lowered the target lending rate by 4.5 percentage
points since August 2011 to a record low 8 percent, saying
slower global growth will damp inflation.  Standard Chartered Plc raised its growth forecast for the
second quarter to 0.4 percent from 0.2 percent.  The retail sales figure “confirms our view that we are
starting to see a pick-up in activity with many of several
measures finally having some positive effect,” Standard
Chartered economist Italo Lombardi wrote in the research note.  Inflation accelerated in July for the first time in 10
months as adverse weather in  Brazil  and the U.S. drove up food
prices. The inflation rate, as measured by the IPCA index, rose
to a four-month high of 5.2 percent, the government reported
Aug. 8.  Central bank President Alexandre Tombini will cut the
target lending rate to 7.25 percent by October before raising it
next year, trading in rate futures indicates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in em São Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Blake Schmidt in  Sao Paulo  at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  