-- Brazil Company Sales Miss Analysts’ Estimates Most Since ‘09
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   D e n y s e   G o d o y
-- 2012-08-16T20:18:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/brazil-company-sales-trail-estimates-most-since-09-on-slowdown.html
Brazilian companies missed analysts’
revenue estimates by the most since 2009 in the second quarter
as the slowdown in  Latin America ’s biggest economy curbed
domestic demand.  Of 58 companies listed on the benchmark Bovespa index that
reported, 32 missed sales  forecasts  from  Redecard SA (RDCD3) , Brazil’s
second-biggest card-payment processor to PDG Realty SA
Empreendimentos & Participacoes, the nation’s third-biggest
homebuilder, data compiled by Bloomberg show. The 55 percent
ratio after the Bovespa companies’ final earnings reports were
released yesterday is the highest since the first quarter of
2009, according to the data.  Sales trailed estimates even after policy makers cut
 interest rates  to a record low, reduced taxes on consumer and
industrial goods and boosted state-backed development loans to
help shore up growth that eased to 0.75 percent in the first
three months of 2012, the slowest pace among the region’s major
economies. President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration unveiled
plans yesterday to seek as much as 133 billion reais ($66
billion) in investments over 30 years through the sale of
licenses to build and operate roads and railways.  “We haven’t seen many things that indicate that there’ll
be a quick turnaround,”  Ed Kuczma , who helps manage $31 billion
at Van Eck Associates Corp., said by telephone from  New York .
“But there’s a lot of stimulus in place, let’s see how that
goes.”  Growth Outlook  Redecard, based in Barueri, Brazil, reported  sales  of 771.2
million reais in the second quarter, below the average estimate
of 966.5 million reais in a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts. Rio
de Janeiro-based PDG’s sales missed the average forecast by 29
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gross domestic product in  Brazil  will expand 1.81 percent
this year, the slowest pace since 2009, down from 2.7 percent in
2011, a central bank survey of 100 economists showed on Aug. 13.
The same survey showed a median growth forecast of 3.3 percent
on Jan. 9.  Europe’s debt crisis helps to explain the slowdown in
Brazil, as a cooling global economy affected the country’s
exports, said Alvaro Bandeira, a partner and chief economist at
Orama Asset Management  Corporate earnings in Brazil may pick up in coming months
should policy makers around the globe take further steps to
boost the recovery, Bandeira said.  “The second half of 2012, especially the last quarter,
should be better for the Brazilian companies on the Bovespa,”
Bandeira said by phone from  Sao Paulo . “Things should improve
if European and American leaders take more measures to revert
the crisis.”  Second-Quarter Earnings  Thirty-six companies out of 58 on the Bovespa index
reported earnings that missed forecasts in the second quarter,
including  Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , Brazil’s state-controlled oil
company, and Gol Linhas Aereas Inteligentes SA, Brazil’s second-
biggest airline by market value. That was the highest ratio of
results that trailed estimates since the first quarter of 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Bovespa has climbed 4.7 percent this year, which
compares with a drop of 4 percent for the Shanghai Composite
Index, a 3.7 advance for  Russia ’s Micex and a 14 percent jump
for  India ’s Sensex.  While Brazil’s slowdown affects companies that sell in the
local market, a drop in commodities prices also curbed
producers’ revenue, Kuczma said. Rio de Janeiro-based  Vale SA (VALE3) ,
the world’s largest iron-ore producer, reported sales of 23.9
billion reais in the second quarter, 5.3 percent below the
average estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net ;
Denyse Godoy in Sao Paulo at 
 dgodoy2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  