-- Brevan Howard Loses Third Founder as Rokos Said to Leave
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k ,   S a i j e l   K i s h a n   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-08-17T07:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/brevan-howard-co-founder-rokos-said-to-leave-hedge-fund.html
Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP,
the $36.7 billion hedge fund started a decade ago by  Alan Howard , is losing its third co-founder in three years as Chris Rokos is calling it quits.  Rokos, 41, is retiring as an “active partner of Brevan
Howard to pursue his personal interests,” the London-based
company said in a report to investors today. He won’t be
managing money at Brevan Howard as of the end of this month,
said a person with knowledge of the matter who asked not to be
identified because the fund is private. Nagi Kawkabani, a
partner at Brevan Howard, declined to comment.  Howard founded Brevan Howard in 2002 with four other
traders from Credit Suisse Group AG’s proprietary fixed-income
trading desk. The first part of  Brevan Howard ’s name is made up
of the initials of founding partners. With Rokos’s departure,
only Trifon Natsis will remain working with Howard, who is the
firm’s chief investment officer. James Vernon, the former chief
operating officer and the “V” in Brevan, left last year. Jean- Philippe Blochet, the “B”, left in late 2009.  “I am grateful for the friendships I have made along the
way,” Rokos said in an e-mail to Brevan Howard employees
yesterday, the contents of which were provided to Bloomberg
News. “I am especially grateful to Alan for his confidence and
his guidance through varied and sometimes tumultuous markets
over our 14 years working together at Credit Suisse and Brevan
Howard. The firm has as deep a bench as it has ever enjoyed and
I have every confidence that it will continue to thrive.”  Macro Strategy  Rokos said in the memo he hasn’t decided what he’ll do
next. Brevan Howard thanked Rokos for his “important
contribution to our success over the past nine years,”
according to the report to investors in BH Macro Ltd., a
publicly traded company that raises money for the company’s
biggest hedge fund.  Brevan Howard, which has grown to be the second-biggest
hedge fund firm in  Europe , focuses on macro trading, seeking to
profit from broad economic trends. The firm’s Master Fund fell
about 0.9 percent this year through Aug. 10, according to a
person familiar with the fund’s performance.  Macro funds lost an average of 2.3 percent in 2012 through
July, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Howard manages about 12 percent of Brevan Howard’s assets
and the rest is dispersed among the firm’s 60 traders, a person
said.  Rokos’s personal fortune rose to 230 million pounds ($362
million) this year from 130 million pounds in 2011, according to
an annual Sunday Times list of the wealthiest U.K. hedge fund
managers.  Howard’s net worth was estimated by the  London  newspaper to
have risen 44 percent to 1.4 billion pounds, putting him at the
top of the ranking. In June 2010, Howard relocated to Geneva
from London, joining other hedge-fund managers who moved to
 Switzerland  after the U.K. government announced plans to raise
taxes on top earners.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Saijel Kishan in  New York  at 
 skishan@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Westbrook in London at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net ;
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  