-- Brocade CEO Resigning as Effort to Find Buyer Falters
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-08-17T20:41:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/brocade-ceo-michael-klayko-to-resign-after-transition-completed.html
Brocade Communications Systems Inc. (BRCD) ,
a maker of switches for data-storage networks that has been
seeking to sell itself, said Chief Executive Officer Michael Klayko plans to resign.  Klayko, who has worked at Brocade for almost a decade in
top sales and marketing roles, will stay on until a successor is
identified,  San Jose , California-based Brocade said yesterday in
a statement. The board has enlisted a recruiting firm to find a
replacement.  Brocade has worked with  Frank Quattrone ’s Qatalyst Partners
to help auction the company, though the efforts to complete a
deal have so far been unsuccessful, people with  knowledge of
the matter have said. The planned resignation may have been
driven by the board’s desire to streamline a sale of the
company, said  Shebly Seyrafi , an analyst with FBN Securities in
New York.  “Perhaps his departure would ease the way for some kind of
transaction for Brocade to be sold,” Seyrafi said yesterday.  The CEO’s decision was announced as Brocade reported fiscal
third-quarter sales and profit that surpassed  analyst estimates .  “The company is in a great position financially, and our
product pipeline will continue to strengthen and clearly
separate Brocade from other networking providers,” Klayko said
in the statement.  Takeover Target  Brocade shares rose 2.3 percent to $5.76 at the close in
New York. The stock has climbed 11 percent this year amid
speculation about a possible takeover by  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ,
 International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  or private-equity firms.  The company has been the target of takeover talks for
years, as its strong cash flow and dominant position in switches
used in so-called storage area networks have made it an
attractive target.  In February, a person with knowledge of the matter said
 Blackstone Group LP (BX) , the world’s biggest private-equity firm,
ended talks about buying Brocade because the price was too high
for a leveraged buyout.  Third-quarter profit, excluding some costs, was 14 cents a
share in the latest quarter, which ended in July. That compared
with an estimate of 12 cents, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Net income was $43.3 million, up from $1.94 million a
year ago. Revenue was $555.3 million, compared with an estimate
of $536.9 million.  For the fourth quarter, Brocade forecast profit, excluding
items, of 13 cents to 14 cents a share, compared with an
estimate of 14 cents. Revenue will be $555 million to $575
million, compared with an estimate of $566.6 million.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  