-- Bus Owners Say Charlotte Seeks to Deny Convention Work
-- B y   A n g e l a   G r e i l i n g   K e a n e
-- 2012-08-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/bus-operators-say-charlotte-trying-to-deny-convention-business.html
Private bus operators say the
public-transit authority in Charlotte,  North Carolina , is
improperly seeking a waiver of U.S. law to prevent them from
operating charters at the Democratic National Convention.  The American Bus Association, which has 20 members based in
North Carolina, asked the U.S. Federal Transit Administration in
a letter released yesterday to deny the Charlotte Area Transit
System’s request to use its own buses to transport more than
35,000 delegates, journalists and others it expects to attend
next month’s convention.  U.S. law prevents public-transit agencies from competing
with motorcoach bus operators for charter business.  “For small and medium-sized businesses, this is a big
deal,” said Dan Ronan, a spokesman for the bus association,
based in Washington. “The big night with the speech in the
stadium, that’s the equivalent of a college football game or an
NFL game, and those are always big days for motorcoach
companies.”  The  Charlotte  transit system told its regulator it needs an
exemption from the U.S. law to be able to accommodate the number
of people expected to attend the convention. Its buses are
especially needed to transport people using wheelchairs,
Assistant City Attorney Lisa Flowers said in an Aug. 7 letter to
FTA Administrator Peter Rogoff. The system asked for the waiver
on June 1.  “A waiver request from CATS is under review within the
Federal Transit Administration and we do not currently have a
time frame for a decision,” Dave Longo, a spokesman for the
agency, said in an e-mail.  Exhausted Efforts  The bus association told the FTA that the transit authority
didn’t prove it had contacted all available private-sector bus
operators and jumped in too quickly to deny them a business
opportunity.  “CATS merely concludes that it has exhausted efforts to
find private operators with whom to contract for charter service
for the DNC,” Clyde Hart, bus association senior vice president
for government affairs and policy, wrote in an Aug. 14 letter to
Rogoff. “CATS does not provide a list of the private operators
it contacted or a list of those private operators who have
executed contracts for service. Neither does CATS provide any
indication of the terms of contracts offered or executed for the
charter service.”  The convention from Sept. 4-6 is where delegates will vote
to nominate President  Barack Obama  to run for a second term.  Wheelchair Services  The transit authority defended its request, saying if FTA
grants it, it will be prepared to serve patrons who need
accessible buses.  “We have gone through the process locally and nationally
to put ourselves in a position that if there is a need for
additional buses that the private sector can’t fulfill that we
have the permission to do that,” Olaf Kinard, a spokesman for
the transit authority, said in an interview. “We have a certain
number of buses that if they need them and no one else can
provide them, that’s an option we can do.”  Three hundred delegates spread among 56 hotels have
registered as needing wheelchair-accessible transportation, and
the transit authority plans to supply 52 buses and trolleys to
transport them, Flowers said in her letter to Rogoff. The
authority also plans to lease about as many as 60 vehicles to
the convention’s transportation operators, primarily from
retired buses from its fleet, she said.  “It’s a concern to our members,” Ronan said. “We’ve
heard from our members, anecdotally, ‘I was expecting some work
here. I was expecting to move delegates.’ Our job is to protect
their rights and also to protect this law, this exemption, the
way it is.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angela Greiling Keane in  Washington  at 
 agreilingkea@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  