-- California Concludes $10 Billion Note Sale Yielding 0.43%
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-08-16T19:46:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/california-note-sale-draws-less-individual-investment.html
California  completed its largest
offering of short-term notes in two years with institutional
investors taking the largest share after a decline in individual
buyers.  Final pricing on the $10 billion sale included 0.33 percent
on a note maturing in May and 0.43 percent for a June maturity,
according to the state treasurer’s office. Earlier this week,
the state offered 0.3 percent to 0.4 percent for a May note and
0.4 percent to 0.55 percent for one coming due in June.  Individual investors took $3.24 billion, or 32 percent of
the sale, down from 66 percent of a $5.4 billion offering with a
top yield of 0.4 percent in September.  “This is an outstanding result,” Treasurer Bill Lockyer
said in a statement. “$10 billion is always a heavy lift,
regardless of market conditions, and we got it done at an
excellent price for taxpayers.”  “Their borrowing costs are very close to what they paid on
last year’s” issue, he said.  The final pricing is 17 basis points to 27 basis points
higher than today’s  0.16 percent  yield on benchmark AAA one-year
tax-exempt debt, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A
basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  In the September sale, debt that matured in May was priced
at 0.38 percent, while bonds due in June were offered at 0.4
percent. Those yields at the time were about 17 basis points
 higher  than AAA rated tax-exempt debt maturing in a year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Revenue Anticipation  The most populous U.S. state sold revenue-anticipation
notes to raise cash until the bulk of tax receipts arrive later
in the year that ends June 30. Last year’s sale probably went
more briskly because it was smaller, said Michael E. Johnson, a
managing director at Gurtin Fixed Income Management LLC, which
manages about $6.1 billion, including $4 billion in municipals.  “The pricing is fair, but we think they may have to bump
it a little bit to get through the balances,” Johnson said in a
telephone interview from Solana Beach, California, before the
sale concluded.  Both  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s Investors Service gave
the notes top ratings.  Borrowing costs for the most indebted U.S. state have
declined as Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, has taken steps to
curb debt issuance and reduce the state’s reliance on fiscal
maneuvers such as internal loans and delaying payments owed to
schools and local governments.  More Debt  The note sale, combined with borrowing planned through
October, means California will issue $17.48 billion in debt this
year, up from $11.18 billion in 2011, according to calculations
by  Tom Dresslar , Lockyer’s spokesman. In 2010, when the
federally subsidized Build America Bonds program ended,
California sold $21.12 billion in securities. The numbers
include general-obligation bonds, revenue-anticipation notes and
lease-revenue bonds issued by the state Public Works Board.  The state plans to sell $1.6 billion in general-obligation
bonds on Sept. 25, including $1.3 billion for infrastructure
projects and $300 million to refinance existing bonds, according
to the treasurer’s office.  The state also scheduled a $500 million sale Oct. 23 to
refinance general-obligation bonds.  The Public Works Board set a $250 million sale of lease-
revenue bonds for Sept. 13 to benefit the  University of
California  and California State University systems, and $548
million on Oct. 17 for various projects, according to Dresslar.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC)  are joint senior
managers and Los Angeles-based bond firm De La Rosa & Co. is co-
managing the sale.  Following the September sale, California had to borrow $1
billion more in February after tax collections fell short and
spending topped expectations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  