-- Canada Stocks Climb to Three-Month High on Merkel Euro Support
-- B y   K a t i a   D m i t r i e v a
-- 2012-08-16T20:48:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/canada-stocks-rise-for-third-day-on-china-stimulus-speculation.html
Canadian stocks rose, sending the
 Standard & Poor’s/TSX Composite Index (SPTSX)  to the highest level since
May, after German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  affirmed support for
the euro during a press conference in Ottawa and U.S. building
permits jumped to a four-year high.  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX)  climbed 3.9 percent after the company
said it is in preliminary talks to sell its Africa unit to China
National Gold Group Corp.  Cameco Corp. (CCO)  added 5.2 percent as oil
advanced in New York.  Alderon Iron Ore Corp. (ADV)  rallied 6.5
percent. Energy and raw-materials companies contributed the most
to gains in the S&P/TSX.  The Canadian stocks gauge rose 127.14 points, or 1.1
percent, to 12,032.58. The benchmark index has climbed 1.6
percent over the last three sessions, erasing its 2012 losses.  “Merkel came out and reaffirmed her support for the
euro,”  Jeff Young , who helps manage C$900 million as chief
investment officer at NexGen Financial Corp. in Toronto, said in
a phone interview. “People are thinking that to support the
euro, that’s going to necessitate bringing down the borrowing
cost for euro members, which is going to necessitate help from
the ECB, which means we’re going to get quantitative easing out
of the ECB. That’s the chain of thought.”  Merkel backed the European Central Bank’s insistence on
austerity conditions for helping reduce borrowing costs in
indebted countries, saying Germany is “in line” with the ECB’s
approach to defending the euro. She said that euro-area policy
makers “feel committed to do everything we can to maintain the
common currency.” Merkel also hailed Canada’s budget and debt
discipline as a model for the 17-nation euro area.  Oil Rises  Oil surged on the Comex in New York, climbing above $95 a
barrel for the first time in three months on signals of future
U.S. economic growth and concern that Israel will strike Iran
and disrupt oil supplies.  U.S. building permits reached a four-year high, increasing
to an 812,000 annual pace in July.  Michael Oren , Israel’s U.S.
ambassador, said yesterday that Israel would strike Iran if only
to delay that country’s ability to produce nuclear weapons for a
few years.  Canadian Natural Resources Ltd. rose 2.3 percent to
C$31.53. Cameco added 5.2 percent to C$22.  Goldcorp Inc. (G)  increased 4.7 percent to C$37.93 as the metal
gained 0.8 percent on the Comex in New York. Kinross Gold Corp.
rose 2.6 percent to C$8.25. Alderon Iron climbed 6.5 percent to
C$2.45.  Barrick Gold added 3.9 percent to C$35.60. China, with $3.2
trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, has urged its companies
to buy assets overseas, securing energy and commodity resources
to feed industries from power generation to construction. A deal
for Barrick’s 73.9 percent stake in African Barrick Gold Plc is
not certain, the company said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Katia Dmitrieva in  New York  at 
 edmitrieva1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  