-- Canada June International Securities Transactions (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-08-16T12:30:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/canada-june-international-securities-transactions-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada’s international transactions report for June
released by  Statistics Canada .  Non-residents reduced their holdings of Canadian securities
by $7.9 billion in June, following two straight months of
acquisitions totalling $36.3 billion. Canadian investors added
$3.9 billion of foreign securities to their portfolio, mainly US
 government bonds .  Foreign holdings of Canadian debt securities down on large
retirements of bonds  Foreign investors reduced their holdings of Canadian bonds
by $7.8 billion in June, the largest divestment since December
2008. This resulted from a $17.5 billion retirement of maturing
instruments, mostly Canadian dollar denominated bonds from the
federal government and its enterprises. These retirements were
moderated by non-resident investment in Canadian bonds on the
secondary market in June, mainly  government securities .  Non-resident investors purchased $0.8 billion of Canadian
money market instruments in June, down from $7.3 billion in May.
Foreign investment of $2.2 billion in federal paper was
partially offset by a reduction in foreign holdings of
government enterprise and corporate paper. Canadian short-term
 interest rates  fell to their lowest level in 2012 by month-end.  Non-resident holdings of Canadian equities edge down  Non-residents sold $0.9 billion of Canadian stocks in June,
following a $2.1 billion investment in May. Sales were focused
on shares from the energy and gold sectors. Canadian equity
prices were up 0.7% in June, following three months of declines.  Canadian acquisition of foreign bonds led by US government
securities  Canadian investors acquired $4.1 billion of foreign bonds
in June, the largest acquisition since November 2010. Activity
was led by $3.0 billion in acquisitions of US government bonds,
largely short-term instruments, and was the largest such
purchase in over five years. The remainder of the activity was
largely composed of purchases of corporate debt in the maple
bond market. The spread between Canadian and US long-term yields
narrowed in June but remained favourable for investment in
 Canada , as the Canadian dollar appreciated against its US
equivalent.  Canadians sell foreign equities for the first time in four
months  Canadian investors reduced their holdings of foreign
equities by $0.2 billion in June, as prices in major world
equity markets increased after posting sizable declines in May.
Sales of non-US foreign stocks, a first divestment in these
instruments since April 2011, were moderated by further
acquisitions of US stocks over the month.  Note to readers  The historical revision to the Canadian National Accounts
is scheduled for release beginning in October 2012. Information
on Canada’s international transactions in securities new CANSIM
tables ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/hr2012-rh2012/data -
donnees/cansim/tables-tableaux/bop-bdp/c-eng.htm#a3) and output
formats ( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/nea-cen/hr2012-rh2012/data -
donnees/publications/tables-tableaux/bop-bdp/tab-eng.htm#a3) is
now available on the National economic accounts website, tables
376-0131 to 376-0138.  All values in this release are net transactions unless
otherwise stated.  The data series on international security transactions
cover portfolio transactions in stocks, bonds and money market
instruments for both Canadian and foreign issues.  Stocks include common and preferred equities, as well as
warrants.  Debt securities include bonds and money market instruments.  Bonds have an original term to maturity of more than one
year.  Money market instruments have an original term to maturity
of one year or less.  Government of Canada paper includes treasury bills and US-
dollar Canada bills.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  