-- Canada June Manufacturing Sales Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-08-16T12:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/canada-june-manufacturing-sales-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
 Canada ’s manufacturing shipments report for June released
by  Statistics Canada .  Manufacturing sales fell 0.4% to $48.9 billion in June,
reflecting a 10.6% drop in sales of petroleum and coal products.
Excluding petroleum and coal products, sales rose 1.1%. In June,
12 of 21 industries reported sales increases, representing
approximately 60% of Canadian manufacturing.  Manufacturing sales have declined in four of the past six
months.  Sales of non-durable goods fell 2.7% while durable goods
sales increased 1.6%. Constant dollar sales increased 0.1%.  Petroleum and coal product sales continue to fall  Sales of petroleum and coal products fell 10.6% in June. A
number of factors contributed to the decline, including a 4.9%
drop in prices, ongoing shutdowns at a number of refineries as
well as lower volumes at other refineries. This decline
reflected an 18.1% drop in imports of crude petroleum used as
raw materials by Canadian refineries, and a 2.9% decline in
exports of petroleum and coal products in June.  Sales of petroleum and coal products have fallen 23.2%
since the most recent high in March 2012 and are now at their
lowest level since August 2010. Nonetheless, sales in the second
quarter of 2012 were 2.7% higher than the same quarter of 2011.  Increased sales of machinery and transportation equipment
were partially offset by the drop in petroleum and coal product
sales.  Transportation equipment sales increased 1.7% to $9.2
billion, the highest level since November 2007. The gain
reflected increases in all but one of the transportation sub-
industries. Motor vehicle sales advanced 0.7% in June, the 11th
increase in 12 months. Sales of motor vehicles were up 40.2% in
June compared with June 2011, as the industry recovered from the
supply chain disruptions related to the 2011 tsunami. Production
in the aerospace product and parts industry rose 2.2%, while
sales of motor vehicle parts advanced 1.1%.  Machinery manufacturers reported a 5.2% increase in sales,
following two months of declines. The gain reflected higher
sales in commercial and service industry machinery manufacturing.  Manufacturing sales down in six provinces  Sales were down in six provinces in June, with the largest
declines posted in  Alberta  and  New Brunswick .  Sales in Alberta declined 2.6% to $6.0 billion -- the third
consecutive monthly decrease. Petroleum and coal products were
the primary reason for the decrease, with sales dropping 19.3%
in the industry. Excluding petroleum and coal products, sales in
Alberta rose 2.8%. Machinery manufacturers reported a 9.8%
increase in sales, the largest in the province. The advance in
machinery was led by rising sales in agricultural, construction
and mining machinery as well as other general-purpose machinery
-- industries that produce products used in oil and gas
infrastructure projects.  In New Brunswick, sales fell 12.6% to $1.5 billion
following a 9.5% gain in May. The decline was mainly
attributable to the non-durable goods industries.  Higher sales in Ontario partially offset the overall
declines. Sales advanced 0.5% to $22.6 billion, reflecting a
1.2% gain in the transportation equipment industry. Motor
vehicle manufacturing sales rose 0.6%, the 11th·increase in 12
months. Machinery manufacturing also contributed to the gain, up
4.9% to $1.4 billion.  Sales in Saskatchewan rose 8.0% to $1.2 billion, the
largest gain since May 2011. This increase was led by the non-
durable goods industries.  Inventory levels fall  Inventories fell 1.7% in June to $64.8 billion, the first
decrease in three months. Lower inventory levels of petroleum
and coal products as well as aerospace product and parts were
responsible for the overall decline.  Inventory levels in the petroleum and coal industry
decreased 8.4% to $4.6 billion in June, following a 15.6%
increase in May. The advance in May reflected accumulated stocks
of raw materials and goods-in-process at refineries which were
shutdown. In June, the decreases were widespread among the
industry and were related to an easing of built up stocks at
shutdown refineries as well as lower imports of crude petroleum
products.  In the aerospace product and parts industry, inventory
levels fell 6.3% to $4.5 billion as a result of lower goods-in-
process and finished product. Also contributing to the decline
were decreases in the computer and electronic products and
machinery industries.  Inventory-to-sales ratio decreases  The inventory-to-sales ratio decreased to 1.32 in June from
1.34 in May. The inventory-to-sales ratio is a measure of the
time, in months, that would be required to exhaust inventories
if sales were to remain at their current level.  Unfilled orders rise  Unfilled orders rose 2.2% in June to $64.3 billion,
reflecting an increase in aerospace product and parts. Excluding
this industry, unfilled orders decreased 1.8% as producers of
machinery and computer and electronic products reported fewer
unfilled orders.  In the aerospace product and parts industry, unfilled
orders increased 6.3% to $32.9 billion. This was the highest
level of unfilled orders since April 2009.  Manufacturers in the machinery industry reported a 2.8%
decline in unfilled orders in June, the first decrease in five
months. Unfilled orders in the computer and electronic products
industry fell to their lowest level since December 2004, down
6.4%.  New orders advanced 1.7% to $50.3 billion in June, largely
as a result of an increase in aerospace product and parts. The
increase was partly counterbalanced by the decline in petroleum
and coal products.  Note to readers  The 2011 manufacturing review was released on August 3,
2012. This annual report (11-621-M2012090) examines recent
trends for sales by industry and other relevant variables
related to manufacturing.  All data in this release are seasonally adjusted and are
expressed in current dollars unless otherwise specified. For
more information on seasonal adjustment, see Seasonal adjustment
and identifying economic trends
( http://www.statcan.gc.ca/pub/11-010-x/2010003/part-partie3 -
eng.htm) .  Preliminary data are provided for the current reference
month. Revised data, based on late responses, are updated for
the three previous months.  Non-durable goods industries include food, beverage and
tobacco products, textile mills, textile product mills, clothing,
leather and allied products, paper, printing and related support
activities, petroleum and coal products, chemicals, and plastics
and rubber products.  Durable goods industries include wood products, non-
metallic mineral products, primary metal, fabricated metal
products, machinery, computer and electronic products,
electrical equipment, appliances and components, transportation
equipment, furniture and related products and miscellaneous
manufacturing.  Production-based industries  For the  aerospace industry  and shipbuilding industries, the
value of production is used instead of sales of goods
manufactured. This value is calculated by adjusting monthly
sales of goods manufactured by the monthly change in inventories
of goods in process and finished products manufactured.  Unfilled orders are a stock of orders that will contribute
to future sales assuming that the orders are not cancelled.  New orders are those received whether sold in the current
month or not. New orders are measured as the sum of sales for
the current month plus the change in unfilled orders from the
previous month to the current month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at   ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  