-- Chile Rate Likely to Hold as Attention Shifts to Peso Rally
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s   a n d   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-08-16T15:05:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/chilean-rate-likely-to-hold-as-attention-shifts-to-peso-rally.html
Chilean policy makers may express
concern about the strength of the peso today, presaging a
possible program of dollar purchases, while keeping the
benchmark interest rate unchanged for a seventh month.  The peso is the world’s best-performing currency tracked by
Bloomberg this year behind  Hungary ’s forint.  Chile ’s 5 percent
interest rate has made the peso the third-most profitable bet
this year for investors who borrow in dollars to invest in other
currencies, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  All 17 analysts  polled by Bloomberg  forecast the bank to
leave the key rate at 5 percent, which along with  Colombia ’s is
the highest borrowing cost among major Latin American rate-
setting nations behind  Brazil . The decision will be announced
after 6 p.m. in Santiago. Chile lacks room to cut rates with an
economy growing faster than 5 percent, rising salaries and
falling unemployment, economist Felipe Alarcon said.  “You have to be very attentive to the language in the
communique,” said  Banco de Credito e Inversiones (BCI) ’ Alarcon, who
used to run the market desk at the central bank. “Nothing
suggests they will cut rates, but they may add a mention of the
real exchange rate. It hasn’t been a year since the last
intervention and already we’re back at similar levels.”  Policy makers last intervened in the  currency market  in
January 2011 when the peso reached 465.75 to the dollar, with
the bank buying $50 million a day for 12 months. The peso was
little changed at 483.05 a dollar as of 10:35 a.m. from Aug. 14
when markets were last open.  Flexibility  Policy makers started mentioning the peso’s gains almost
four months before initiating dollar purchases when they noted
the appreciation of the peso in a Sept. 16, 2010 statement
accompanying the rate decision. They haven’t mentioned the peso
in a statement since Jan. 12 this year, when they said its
depreciation in the fourth quarter was impacting inflation.  Asked about the peso during an economic forum in Santiago
this month, central bank President Rodrigo Vergara kept open his
options.  “We have a flexible  exchange rate , which we think is
optimal for a country like Chile so it can absorb shocks that
come from abroad,” he said Aug. 7. “That doesn’t mean that we
reject the possibility of intervening when we think the exchange
rate moves away from its fundamentals.”  In a trade-weighted and inflation-adjusted index, the peso
has reached 72, according to BCI, compared with 73 before the
previous intervention in January 2011.  Under Pressure  The central bank already is under pressure to take measures
to soften the peso.  Chile’s fruit lobby, known as Fedefruta, has met with
officials at the Economy Ministry as well as lawmakers and will
set up meetings at the central bank to express its concern that
the peso’s appreciation threatens to make exports of some fruits
unprofitable, Fedefruta President Cristian Allendes said on Aug.
10.  “This country needs to develop its exports, and not just
in areas related to mining,” Allendes said by phone. “We are
very worried about the peso’s appreciation, especially
considering that we’ve seen an increase in costs in terms of
salaries and energy. We’re in a tough situation.”  The Santiago Chamber of Commerce in July urged the central
bank to consider lowering borrowing costs, saying high local
 interest rates  had attracted funds that were pushing up the
peso, according to an e-mailed statement.  Policy makers will reduce borrowing costs by February as
 inflation rates  remain at or below the central bank’s 3 percent
target for the next two years, according to the median estimate
of 55 traders and investors polled by the bank on Aug. 7.
Inflation has eased in the past five months, reaching 2.5
percent in July, the lowest level in 20 months.  Consumer Boom  Slowing inflation has been accompanied by surging economic
growth in the world’s top copper producer as rising wages and
falling unemployment push up  consumer spending . Copper traded at
$3.36 a pound yesterday, down 3 percent this year.  The economy expanded 6.2 percent in June from last year
after growing 5.3 percent in May and 4.8 percent in April. Wages
increased 6 percent in June and unemployment dropped to 6.6
percent in the second quarter from 7.2 percent in the year-ago
period.  Still, growth will moderate in the second half of 2012 as a
global deceleration reduces demand for Chilean exports, with
gross domestic product in the Andean nation expanding 4 percent
to 5 percent this year from 6 percent in 2011, according to
central bank forecasts.  “There are major risks and we must remain vigilant,”
Vergara said Aug. 7. “The effects of the external environment
on activity have been limited and less than expected. But it’s
impossible for us to remain an island if the situation
worsens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net ;
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  