-- Chile Peso Trades Near Two-Week Low on Dollar-Buying Speculation
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-08-16T18:26:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/chile-peso-trades-near-two-week-low-on-dollar-buying-speculation.html
Chile ’s peso traded near a two-week
low on speculation the central bank may lay the groundwork at
its meeting today for a possible program of dollar purchases to
contain the local currency.  The peso was little changed at 483.40 per  U.S. dollar  at
2:10 p.m. in Santiago after touching 484.61, the weakest
intraday level since Aug. 2. It has still risen 7.5 percent this
year, the biggest gain among all of the world’s currencies
tracked by Bloomberg after the Hungarian forint.  Chile’s exchange rate versus its five largest developed
trading partners, the U.S.,  Japan , the U.K.,  Canada  and the euro
region, is close to the levels that prompted central bank
interventions in 2008 and 2011, according to estimates from
economists at Bank of America Merrill Lynch and  Banco de Credito
e Inversiones. (BCI)  Before the peso started falling Aug. 10, it was
the world’s best performer, leading industry groups including
the fruit exporters association to express concern.  “There’s intervention noise,” said Cristian Donoso, a
trader at Banchile Corredores de Bolsa SA in Santiago. “We’re
near the 2011 intervention level, and exporters are complaining
about their businesses being damaged.”  The central bank will probably leave its target lending
rate at 5 percent today for a seventh straight month, according
to all 17 economists in a  Bloomberg survey .  Inflation Projections  Breakeven inflation, a projection of the pace of consumer
price increases implied by the difference between nominal and
inflation-linked yields, rose today, with the two-year rate
climbing 11 basis points to 2.89 percent, the highest since May
24 on a closing basis.  Chilean inflation  may end the year at about 2.1 percent,
Bank of America Merrill Lynch wrote today in a note to clients,
with gasoline and food prices probably rising this month. The
firm doesn’t expect the central bank to lower the target rate in
August or September.  “In fact, we see risks biased toward no cuts at all in
2012, although events in the U.S. and  Europe  could make it
premature to rule cuts out,” analysts at the firm wrote.  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  recommended today in a research note
that investors bet Chilean inflation-linked yields will fall,
allowing them to profit from any future reductions in central
bank rates as well as from an increase in inflation
expectations.  Chile’s government said today in the  official gazette  that
it reduced  import duties  on wheat and wheat flour as part of its
policy of mitigating price fluctuations.  Local institutions reduced their long peso position in the
Chilean peso forwards market to $15.9 billion on Aug. 13,
according to central bank data. International investors had a
$7.7 billion short peso position.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  