-- Sliding Investment in China Signals Confidence Waning
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-16T04:55:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/china-s-july-fdi-falls-8-7-from-year-earlier-to-7-58-billion.html
Foreign direct investment  in  China 
fell to the lowest level in two years in July, fueling concern
that waning confidence in the nation’s growth prospects may
restrain any economic rebound.  Investment declined 8.7 percent from a year earlier to
$7.58 billion, the eighth drop in nine months and the smallest
inflow since July 2010. The  Ministry of Commerce  released the
data at a briefing in Beijing today.  Chinese financial institutions sold a net 3.8 billion  yuan 
($600 million) of foreign currency last month, indicating
capital is flowing out as property curbs and weakness in exports
slow growth and the yuan weakens. Premier  Wen Jiabao  stoked
speculation that the government may cut banks’ reserve
requirements to support the economy when state media reported
yesterday that he saw room to adjust monetary policy.  “Boosting confidence is very important and it needs
action,” said Shen Jianguang, Hong Kong-based chief  Asia 
economist for  Mizuho Securities . “The government needs to
reduce the tax burden for companies and cut the reserve ratio
and  interest rates  to support growth.” He sees at least two
more reductions in reserve requirements this year and one in the
benchmark lending rate.  China’s slowdown may extend into a seventh quarter after
 export growth  collapsed in July and industrial production and
lending missed economists’ forecasts. The nation reported a
$71.4 billion capital account deficit in April-through-June, the
biggest quarterly shortfall in data going back to 1998.  ‘Grim’ Trade Outlook  “In the second half, China’s foreign trade and export
situation will be more grim, there will be more difficulties,
harder tasks, and the pressure of achieving the full-year target
will be bigger,” Shen Danyang, spokesman for the commerce
ministry, said at today’s briefing. The country aims for 10
percent growth in trade this year.  The People’s Bank of China is likely to cut  reserve
requirements  within the next two weeks, Nomura Holdings Inc.
said in a note today, saying that Wen’s comments reinforced that
view. UBS AG said that a reduction may come “soon” and the
central bank is likely to work with regulators to encourage more
lending to key investment projects.  The nation’s biggest banks are currently required to park
20 percent of their deposits at the PBOC.  China’s swap rate climbed to a three-month high of 2.9
percent today, reflecting a worsening cash crunch. The 14-day
repurchase rate, a gauge of interbank funding availability,
jumped the most in almost two months, rising to 4.1 percent.  The yuan has declined about 1 percent against the dollar
this year. The currency weakened about 0.1 percent to 6.3683 per
dollar as of 12:34 p.m. in  Shanghai .  Wen’s View  “In the recent months, especially since July, there are
some positive changes in the economy,” said Wen, 69, as cited
by state television. Domestic demand is showing greater effect
in supporting economic growth, industrial output in eastern
regions is picking up and the job market is stable, he said.  Four analysts forecasting foreign direct investment all
predicted declines, ranging from a 2.2 percent fall to a slide
of 9.2 percent.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT) , the world’s largest maker of construction
and mining machinery, shut its main excavator factory in China
for much of July and had employees on shortened work weeks,  Mike DeWalt , director of  investor relations  at the Peoria, Illinois,
company, said in an Aug. 8 conference presentation, according to
a transcript.  “The current sales level in China is quite depressed,”
DeWalt said. “We’ve cut production there.”  Expansion Plans  At the same time, some overseas companies are continuing to
expand in a nation where rates of growth remain higher than in
developed markets.  Yum! Brands Inc. (YUM) , the U.S.-based operator of
KFC and Pizza Hut restaurants, has boosted the number of
locations where it plans to open this year to at least 700.  The nation is loosening some restrictions on investment
from abroad, with the securities regulator allowing foreigners
to buy a broader range of bonds. China will encourage foreign
investment into industries including high-end manufacturing,
technology and new energy, Zhang Ping, chairman of the National
Development and Reform Commission, said last month.  China’s economy , a driver of demand for commodities, grew
7.6 percent in the second quarter from a year earlier, the least
in three years. The government is persisting with curbs on the
housing market to make properties more affordable after prices
jumped during the last round of stimulus.  Wen said that easing inflation leaves room to adjust
monetary policy, according to yesterday’s state media reports.  ‘Central Concern’  “Policy makers have made clear in recent weeks that
supporting economic growth is their central concern,” Qinwei Wang, an economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said
before today’s release. “We continue to think that more policy
support will be announced soon, including a further cut to the
required reserve ratio, and that more infrastructure projects
proposed by local governments will be given the go-ahead.”  Wang is a former employee of the People’s Bank of China,
according to his profile on  Capital Economics ’ website.  Elsewhere in Asia today,  South Korea  reported a decline in
 unemployment . In  Europe , euro region data may show that consumer
prices fell in July from June, while the U.K. will report on
retail sales.  In the U.S.,  jobless claims  may have increased to 365,000
in the week ended Aug. 11 after unexpectedly falling to 361,000
the previous week, according to the median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The world’s biggest
economy will also release data on housing starts and building
permits.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Xin Zhou in Beijing at 
 xzhou68@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  