-- China in Talks to Buy Barrick’s Stake in Tanzania Miner
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-08-16T20:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/china-in-talks-to-buy-barrick-s-stake-in-tanzania-gold-miner-1-.html
China  National Gold Group Corp. is
in talks about buying  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ’s African unit as the
world’s biggest commodity-consuming nation continues to snap up
resources on the continent.  There’s no certainty that China National Gold will make an
offer for Barrick’s 73.9 percent stake in  African Barrick Gold
Plc (ABG) , Toronto-based Barrick said in a statement today. UBS AG is
advising the Canadian company, according to the statement.  China, with $3.2 trillion of foreign-exchange reserves, has
urged its companies to buy assets overseas, securing energy and
commodity resources to feed industries from power generation to
construction. Zijin Mining Group Co., its biggest gold miner by
market value, said in July it’s looking to buy copper projects
in Africa. China’s  Minmetals Resources Ltd. (1208)  bought  Australia ’s
Anvil Mining Ltd. in March for C$1.3 billion ($1.3 billion) to
gain a  copper mine  in the  Democratic Republic  of Congo.  African Barrick, the largest gold producer in Tanzania,
rose as much as 14 percent to the highest intraday price since
March 5. It gained 8 percent to 425 pence at the close in
London, valuing the company at 1.74 billion pounds ($2.74
billion). Barrick rose 3.9 percent to C$35.60 in Toronto.  The company has been dogged by operational setbacks since
it was spun off from Barrick. African Barrick has struggled to
meet production targets and is forecasting its lowest annual
output since the stock began trading in  London  in March 2010.
The shares were down 14 percent this year through yesterday.  Gold Deals  Acquisitions in the gold industry have declined as slowing
global growth tightens available credit. There were 120 deals
worth about $3.9 billion in the first half of the year, compared
with 153 deals worth about $12.8 billion a year earlier,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The median multiple of earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization that buyers paid in the past year
was 11, the data show. Even after today’s gains, African Barrick
is valued at about at 4.7 times 2011’s estimated Ebitda,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “I don’t see them getting a fairly hefty premium on this
at the end of the day,”  David West , a Vancouver-based analyst
at Salman Partners Inc., said in a telephone interview. “It is
Africa, it’s fairly risky and its a sizable amount of assets,
which means your potential acquirers out there are quite
limited.”  Forecast Output  African Barrick in 2010 cut its annual output forecast to
about 716,000 ounces from an initial estimate of as much as
850,000 ounces. The revision followed delays and fuel theft at
its Buzwagi project. Last year, the company produced 688,278
ounces after forecasting as much as 760,000 ounces.  Barrick, the world’s biggest gold miner, said it remains
“confident” in its African unit and in African Barrick’s
“qualified and experienced management team and its portfolio of
world-class assets.”  Barrick is still committed to African Barrick, “but in our
view this is not a positive endorsement from what someone
classed previously as a major supporter,” Numis Securities Ltd.
said today in a note.  Barrick is among gold producers battling rising costs for
building and operating mines, while gold-mining equities have
fallen to their lowest level relative to the price of gold in 28
years.  New CEO  Barrick fired Chief Executive Officer Aaron Regent in June.
His replacement, Jamie Sokalsky, said July 26 that he’d begun a
review of assets and would focus on returns instead of
production growth. Barrick also said last month that the cost of
building its Pascua-Lama mine on the Chile-Argentina border may
rise as much as 60 percent to $8 billion.  Wu Zhanming, a Beijing-based spokesman for China National
Gold’s overseas operations, did not answer three calls to his
mobile phone seeking comment.  State-owned China National Gold, which controls the
nation’s largest deposits of the metal, said in May 2011 that it
was seeking to invest in projects in  Africa .  Should the company buy more than 30 percent of the voting
interest in African Barrick, it would be required to make an
offer for all its shares, African Barrick said in a separate
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  