-- China Stocks Fall to Two-Week Low After Foreign Investment Drops
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-16T08:04:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/china-stock-futures-swing-between-gains-losses-amid-wen-comment.html
China’s stocks  fell after a report
showed foreign direct investment slumped to a two-year low,
overshadowing comments from Premier  Wen Jiabao  that there is
more room to adjust monetary policy.  Tsingtao Brewery Co. (600600) , China’s second-biggest brewery by
volume, slid 4 percent for the biggest decline among consumer
staples stocks after earnings missed analysts’ estimates.
Huadong Medicine Co. led a drop for health-care shares on
speculation drugmakers are overvalued. Wen said that while
easing inflation allows more room to alter monetary policy,
downward pressure on the economy remained “relatively large.”  “The market is mainly concerned about the economy, which
is facing structural problems from shifting to consumption from
over-investment,” said  Wang Zheng , Shanghai-based chief
investment officer at Jingxi Investment Management Co., which
manages about $120 million. “Wen’s comment is keeping
investors’ hopes alive that more policy easing may come soon.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  fell 0.3 percent to 2,112.20
at the close, the lowest level since Aug. 2. The  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300) 
lost 0.5 percent to 2,319.67. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong retreated 0.4
percent today. The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index (CH55BN) , the measure of
the most-traded U.S.-listed Chinese companies, was little
changed yesterday.  The Shanghai Composite tumbled 14 percent from this year’s
high on March 2 through yesterday amid concern the economic
slowdown is worsening. The index is valued at 9.5 times
estimated profit, compared with the 17.4 average since Bloomberg
began compiling the data in 2006.  Downward Pressure  Foreign direct investment dropped 8.7 percent in July from
a year earlier to $7.58 billion, the lowest level in two years,
the Ministry of Commerce said today in Beijing. It’s the eighth
drop in nine months and the smallest inflow since July 2010.
Inflation slowed to a 30-month low in July, export growth
collapsed and new  yuan  loans trailed estimates.  “The weaker-than-expected economic activity in July
imposes more downside risk to our 8 percent growth forecast in
third quarter,”  Wang Tao , economist at UBS AG, wrote in a note.
“More importantly, for investors, earnings growth, which tracks
nominal GDP growth more closely, would continue to deteriorate
in the third quarter as dropping output prices weaken revenue
growth further.”  Tsingtao Brewery slid 4 percent to 33.10 yuan, the biggest
loss since Jan. 4. Net income rose 1.8 percent from a year
earlier to 1 billion yuan ($157 million) in the six months ended
June 30, the company said yesterday. That compares with the 1.13
billion yuan average of four analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Wen’s Comments  “We have the conditions and capabilities, and will be sure
to fulfill this year’s economic and social development
targets,” Wen said during a two-day inspection tour to the
eastern province of Zhejiang, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday.  The reports yesterday didn’t specify which targets  China 
will meet, including the 7.5 percent goal for gross domestic
product growth set in March. Expansion was 7.8 percent in the
first half, and Deutsche Bank AG last week lowered its third-
quarter forecast to 7.5 percent from 7.9 percent.  Wen’s comments reinforced a view that China will cut
lenders’ reserve-ratio requirements this month, Zhang Zhiwei, an
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc., wrote in a report today. The
likelihood of an interest-rate cut is rising though it’s still
less than 50 percent, he said.  A measure of health-care stocks in the CSI 300 fell 1.8
percent today, the biggest drop among the 10 industry groups.
Huadong Medicine lost 4.1 percent to 33.11 yuan. Tasly
Pharmaceutical Group Co. slid 2.2 percent to 49.68 yuan.  ‘Too Expensive’  Shandong Dong-E E-Jiao Co. (000423)  dropped 4.4 percent to 36.80
yuan. Growth in first-half net income slowed to 3.7 percent from
47 percent a year earlier on rising raw-material costs, the
traditional medicine maker said in a statement yesterday.  Drugmakers are “too expensive,” said  Mark Mobius , the
executive chairman of Templeton  Emerging Markets  Group, said in
an e-mailed response to questions on Aug. 14.  Health-care stocks in the CSI 300 trade at 21 times
estimated earnings, twice as expensive as stocks in the Shanghai
Composite, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The cost of protecting against a drop in Chinese stocks
fell to the lowest level in 15 months on speculation China’s
central bank will introduce measures to boost economic growth.  Puts with an exercise level 10 percent below the Hang Seng
China Enterprises Index cost 1.26 times more than calls betting
on a 10 percent rally, according to data on one-month options
compiled by Bloomberg. The price relationship known as skew
touched 1.13 on Aug. 10, its lowest level since April 2011. The
index tracking shares of mainland companies listed in  Hong Kong 
rose 6.7 percent since this year’s low on July 12.  Thirty-day  volatility  in the Shanghai Composite was at 13.8
today, compared with this year’s average of 17.5, while about
4.4 billion shares changed hands, the lowest since Dec. 26.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Richard Frost  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  