-- China Mobile Heads for Slowest Profit Growth Since 2000
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-16T09:25:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/china-mobile-second-quarter-profit-little-changed-as-costs-rise.html
China Mobile Ltd. (941) , the world’s
biggest phone company by subscribers, fell the most in more than
a year in Hong Kong trading as profit growth cooled to the
slowest annual pace in at least 13 years.  Shares closed down 5 percent, the biggest decline since
Aug. 9, 2011, at HK$86.65 after the company posted second-
quarter profit that missed analysts’ estimates because of rising
costs to lure customers. Profit in the three months ended in
June fell to 34.40 billion yuan ($5.4 billion) from 34.42
billion yuan a year earlier, according to figures derived by
Bloomberg News from half-year  numbers  reported today.  Chief Executive Officer Li Yue is boosting  capital spending 
to invest in a fourth-generation network and planning 26 billion
 yuan  in handset subsidies to maintain his lead in smartphone
users over rivals  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (762)  and  China
Telecom Corp. (728)  Growth in net income may be 1 percent this year,
down from 5 percent last year and the slowest pace since 1999.  “Pressure is still there,” Jim Tang, an analyst at
Shenyin Wanguo Securities Co. in  Shanghai , said of China
Mobile’s results in an e-mail today. “Eyes are on 4G now. It
won’t happen before 2013.”  Apple’s IPhone  China Mobile was the biggest drag in the MSCI  Asia  Pacific
Index today, trimming this year’s gain to 14 percent, after
quarterly profit dropped for the first time since 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company’s second-
quarter earnings missed the projection of 35.6 billion yuan, the
median of nine analysts’ estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  China Unicom and China Telecom are luring subscribers with
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone, which doesn’t work on China Mobile’s 3G
network.  “We faced a number of severe challenges including the
increase in mobile penetration, intensified competition, as well
as the impact of new technologies and services,” China Mobile
Chairman  Xi Guohua  said in today’s statement. “The competition
for customer value will become more fierce.”  Sales rose 5.4 percent to 139.1 billion yuan from 131.9
billion yuan in the quarter, according to Bloomberg
calculations. That compares with the 140.5 billion-yuan median
of nine analyst estimates.  China Mobile had 683.1 million mobile-phone subscribers at
the end of June, including 67.1 million users of the high-speed,
third-generation service that smartphones use to access the Web,
the company announced last month.  3G Network  That compares with China Unicom’s 219.3 million total
subscribers, including 57.5 million users of its 3G service in
the same period, according to data released by the carrier last
month. China Telecom was in third place with 144.2 million
mobile subscribers, including 51 million 3G users.  China Mobile increased its estimate for handset subsidies
by 6 billion yuan from the company’s previous forecast, Xi said
at a press conference in  Hong Kong  today.  “The upward adjustment of handset subsidies will be very
effective to promote the development of our 3G network,” Xi
said. “Most of the subsidy will be for smartphones.”  Still, China Mobile’s share of 3G wireless users dropped to
38 percent at the end of June, from 44 percent a year earlier,
and the company will continue to concede market share, Marvin Lo, a Hong Kong-based analyst at  Mizuho Securities , wrote in a
July 23 report.  “Definitely the pressure is building,” Alen Lin, an
analyst at BNP Paribas Securities Asia in Hong Kong, said before
the announcement. “Both handset subsidies and marketing
expenses in general are rising to stimulate subscriber growth.”  Expanding 4G  Lin cut his rating on China Mobile’s shares to hold from
buy this week, citing the impact the rising spending would have
on profitability.  The company is counting on the move to a 4G network, based
on technology known as TD-LTE, to stem that decline among users
who watch videos and play games on their phones. Its homegrown
3G network left it unable to offer popular handsets, including
the iPhone, which is now available from both China Unicom and
China Telecom.  China Mobile’s state-owned parent company this year will
expand its 4G trial to nine cities, from six last year, and add
20,000 base stations to the 900 it tested last year, the company
said in March. The total number of 4G base stations will exceed
200,000 next year, the company said.  China Unicom and China Telecom both report earnings next
week.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  