-- UCWeb Targets 2013 IPO as Mobile Browser Expands to U.S.
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n   a n d   M a r k   M i l i a n
-- 2012-08-16T22:55:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/china-s-ucweb-targets-2013-ipo-as-mobile-browser-expands-to-u-s-.html
UCWeb Inc. , the Chinese maker of a
popular mobile Web browser, may hold an initial public offering
next year as it plots a course to serve a billion users by 2017.  “We’re thinking this year may not be a good time” to hold
an IPO, Chief Financial Officer Roy Rong said in an interview
today at Bloomberg’s  San Francisco  office. “We’re looking at
2013 right now,” he said.  UCWeb, founded in 2004, is seeking to expand the reach of
its mobile browser, which now has 300 million users on a range
of devices. The Beijing-based company would probably hold its
IPO in the U.S., yet has little need to raise funds soon, and it
has been discouraged by the negative sentiment toward Internet
stocks, Rong said.  “It would be better for us, branding-wise, to be listed in
the U.S.,” Chief Executive Officer Yongfu Yu said today through
an interpreter. “It would expand our brand name and make us
better known.”  The company plans to open a U.S. office in the fourth
quarter of this year and fill it with as many as 10 engineers,
Yu said. UCWeb has struck deals in the past three months with
U.S.-based technology companies looking to grow in  China ,
including Evernote Corp.  The company makes 75 percent of its sales from advertising-
related services and 25 percent from other services, such as
virtual goods sold in games played on its browser, Rong said.  UCWeb, which competes with Tencent Holdings Ltd., is
profitable, Yu said.  Money Raised  The company has raised a total of $80 million to $100
million from investors, and its last funding round closed early
last year, Rong said. He declined to disclose how much was
raised in that round or the company’s valuation.  UCWeb is seeking to make investments and small acquisitions
in China and elsewhere, Yu said.  The company expects revenue from purchases made within
mobile games in  emerging markets  to be an important area of
growth, Yu said. Meanwhile, he said advertising on smartphones
in China hasn’t struggled like it has in the U.S., where
 Facebook Inc. (FB)  has faced challenges making money from mobile
users.  “The advertising is all good news,” Yu said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Milian in San Francisco at 
 mmilian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  