-- China’s Yuan Decades From Challenging Dollar: Cutting Research
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2012-08-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/china-s-yuan-decades-from-challenging-dollar-cutting-research.html
To see the status of  China ’s yuan as
a major  reserve currency  in two decades, one need only look at
the yen.  The internationalization of  Japan ’s currency in the 1970s
and 1980s boosted its use in trade settlements, fostered global
samurai bonds and made it a mainstay of foreign-exchange markets,
said Alistair Thornton, an economist at IHS Global Insight in
Beijing. Then its star faded, a victim of government reluctance
to fully open financial markets to foreign participants and
focus on developing financial products, Thornton wrote in an Aug.
14 report on the website of the Sydney-based Lowy Institute. The
global proportion of yen reserve holdings peaked at 9 percent in
1991, before falling to about 3 percent, he said.  That same fate may befall China. After accelerating the
internationalization of the  yuan , fundamental changes in China’s
economic model including an open capital account, a floating
currency and financial-market liberalization are needed to move
toward achieving reserve status, Thornton said.  “It requires facing down tough political opposition and
powerful vested interests, a willingness to expose the economy
to new and unknown stresses and external volatilities, and a
recognition that China needs to implement one of the largest
sets of economic and financial reforms in recent history,” he
said. “Against a backdrop of a weak and uncertain outlook in
the global economy, it would be unsurprising if leaders in China
receded into policy conservatism.”  The yuan is involved in less than 1 percent of average
daily turnover in global  currency markets , somewhere between the
Russian ruble and the Turkish new lira, Thornton said, citing
data from the  Bank for International Settlements . That compares
with 85 percent for the  U.S. dollar  and about 40 percent for the
euro.  “Whilst some measure of internationalization is indeed
underway, movement towards a reserve currency status
commensurate with China’s global economic status will be
tortuously slow, relegating the prospect to irrelevance,” he
said. “The very best Beijing can hope for within the next
couple of decades is a  renminbi  similar in position to that of
the Japanese yen -- an internationalized, but modestly used,
reserve currency. Even that will prove a stretch.”  * * *  The unexpected drop in  India ’s  inflation rate  last month to
a 32-month low is a “mirage” that will be dispelled when food
prices rise after poor monsoon rains, according to Anand Rathi
Financial Services Ltd. in Mumbai.  The benchmark wholesale-price index increased 6.87 percent
in July from a year earlier, compared with 7.25 percent in June,
as vegetable prices fell 5.6 percent from a month earlier. That
decline was unprecedented given that the costs of two major
staples -- onions and potatoes -- surged, Anand Rathi’s chief
economist, Sujan Hajra, and analyst Gautam Singh wrote in an Aug.
14 report.  The “drop in vegetable prices came as a major surprise as
such a situation had never occurred in the past,” they said.  Monsoon rains have been 15 percent below typical. Should
they fail to pick up before the end of the rainy season, it will
push food-price gains to 18 percent and wholesale-price
inflation above 10 percent by December, they said. Even if
rainfall does improve, food inflation may peak at 14 percent and
wholesale prices may rise 8.5 percent by year-end, they predict.  While the July inflation numbers raised the prospect of a
cut in the  benchmark repurchase rate  by the  Reserve Bank  of
India as early as September, Hajra and Singh say price pressures
will prevent a further reduction before December. The bank has
kept the rate at 8 percent since April, when it announced the
first cut in three years.  * * *  European Central Bank proposals to tackle  Italy ’s public
finances have little chance of gaining popular support in the
country, says economist Edward Hugh. Public resistance to the
plans is likely to make politics in the euro-area’s third-
biggest economy as fragmented and unstable as in  Greece , Hugh
wrote in “Is The Italian Elephant About to Break Loose Again?”
posted Aug. 10 on the EconoMonitor website.  The ECB has urged Italy to cut wages and limit job
protection, among other measures to stabilize finances, Hugh
said. Italian politicians are reluctant to sign up to a rescue
package from an institution with such views, raising pressure on
Prime Minister  Mario Monti  not to ask for help.  Italy “really has no alternative” to a bailout if it
wants to keep the euro, Hugh wrote. The government, which
forecasts a contraction of 1.2 percent this year and growth of
0.5 percent in 2013, is “way too optimistic” given  consumer
confidence  near a 14-year low and the purchasing manager survey
for  services  showing lower output in a year. The lack of growth
may push gross debt to GDP above 130 percent.  The prospect that Italians will have to suffer the strict
conditions needed for a bailout and retention of the euro is
fueling support for politicians ambivalent or openly hostile to
the euro, delaying reform, Hugh said.  “The growing popularity of new political movements like
Beppe Grillo’s Five Star could easily lead to the kind of
political fragmentation already seen in Greece,” he wrote. That
will make “traditional political forces which back the Monti
government even more reluctant to accelerate the adoption of
far-reaching reform.”  * * *  The U.S., euro area and Japan should consider policies to
draw more older people into the workforce, including raising the
 retirement age , to offset a drag on growth from aging
populations, says Nathan Sheets, global head of international
economics at Citigroup Inc.  The three regions will experience per capita gross domestic
product growth of about 0.5 percent to 1.5 percent over the next
few decades, Sheets wrote in a research note published Aug. 9.
His study of real GDP growth since 1991 shows the U.S. expanded
an average of 2.5 percent a year, while the euro area grew 1.5
percent and Japan 0.75 percent.  Sheets’ analysis of Japan’s economy over the last 20 years
shows its weakness didn’t come from a loss in productivity,
which expanded at about the same pace as in the U.S. Instead,
stagnant growth reflected a drop in aggregate hours worked,
which partly resulted from a decline in labor demand as
companies adopted conservative hiring practices, Sheets said.
Hours worked fell 15 percent, compared with a rise of 15 percent
in the U.S. and a 5 percent gain in  Europe .  With limited prospects for bolstering economies by
increasing the size of the labor pool, even allowing for
attracting more women into the workforce, the nations will have
to turn to their seniors, he said.  “Additional gains in labor-force participation rates in all
three economies will need to come from the rising participation
of older workers, especially given the fact that shifting
demographics imply that older people will account for a larger
share of the population,” Sheets said. “As an economic-policy
measure, moves to encourage the participation of older workers
(including higher retirement ages) would seem well advised.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  