-- China Swap Rate Rises to Three-Month High as Cash Crunch Worsens
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-16T08:38:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/china-swap-rate-rises-to-three-month-high-as-cash-crunch-worsens.html
China ’s swap rate climbed to a
three-month high, reflecting a worsening cash crunch as the
central bank refrains from easing lenders’ reserve requirements.  The 14-day  repurchase rate , a gauge of interbank funding
availability, jumped the most in almost two months even as the
central bank injected 90 billion  yuan  ($14 billion) into the
financial system using reverse-repurchase agreements. Reports
last week showed banks extended the fewest new loans in July
since September, while gains in industrial output, retail sales
and exports slowed. The inflation rate fell to a 30-month low
and Premier Wen Jiabao said yesterday there is scope to adjust
monetary policy.  “There is disappointment from the lack of policy action
since the weak economic data released last week,” said Pin Ru Tan, a Hong Kong-based rates strategist at HSBC Securities Asia
Ltd. The central bank cut  interest rates  in June and July after
lowering banks’ reserve-requirement ratios in May for the third
time since November.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, rose five basis
points, or 0.05 percentage point, to 2.91 percent as of 4:35 p.m.
in  Shanghai , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It touched
2.92 percent, the highest since May 15.  The 14-day repo jumped 45 basis points to 4.10 percent, the
biggest increase since June 25, according to a weighted average
rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding Center.  The central bank entered into 70 billion yuan of seven-day
reverse-repurchase contracts today and 20 billion yuan of 14-day
agreements, pumping capital into the financial system by buying
securities on a temporary basis. The seven-day reverse repo was
conducted at a 3.35 percent yield and the 14-day at 3.6 percent.
Open-market operations by the People’s Bank of China injected a
 net  75 billion yuan into the financial system this week,
according to Industrial Bank Co. data.  The yield on the 3.14 percent government bond due February
2017 gained one basis point to 2.95 percent, according to the
Interbank Funding Center.  -- Judy Chen . Editors:  James Regan , Amit Prakash  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Judy Chen in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 