-- China-Auto Recall, Oil, WJB Capital, Finra: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-08-16T12:49:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/china-auto-recall-oil-rules-wjb-capital-expelled-compliance.html
An Australian recall by China’s two
biggest car exporters for potential cancer-producing asbestos
parts may threaten plans by Chinese automakers to expand into
the U.S. and Europe amid intensifying competition at home.  Australia was to be the “testing area” for Chinese
carmakers looking to enter larger markets and the recall has
dealt a blow to those ambitions, according to Dunne & Co.  Great
Wall Motor Co. (2333)  and Chery Automobile Co. recalled 23,000 of their
vehicles sold in Australia after authorities found asbestos in
some models.  The use of asbestos in exports raises concerns about the
quality and safety of products made in China, which has
struggled with repeated health scares relating to tainted
products. Vehicle exports from the country may rise about 50
percent this year, extending record shipments in 2011, according
to the official trade chamber.  Algeria, China’s second biggest export market for cars in
2011, prohibits the use of asbestos for most uses, according to
the International Ban Asbestos Secretariat’s website. Chile,
Uruguay and Egypt are others among China’s top 10 auto export
markets last year that have similar bans.  Shang Yugui, a spokesman at Great Wall, the biggest maker
of sport utility vehicles and pick-up trucks in China, said the
company became aware of the issue in April and then stopped
using the parts in question. The components were used in some
vehicles sold in China and overseas markets, he said, without
giving more details.  “We need to reflect at Great Wall,” Shang said. “We
became careless after our repeated checks showed that the
asbestos parts won’t cause harm to the human body.”  Chery said workers mistakenly used a wrong batch of parts
that wasn’t meant for cars to be exported to Australia. The
automaker hasn’t discussed recalling vehicles with similar
asbestos parts in markets outside of Australia, a spokesman,
Huang Huaqiong, said Aug. 14. The company will issue recalls if
the respective authorities require them, Huang said.  For more, click here.  Compliance Policy  U.S. Regulators Propose New Rules for Higher-Risk Mortgage Loans  The  Federal Reserve  and five other federal financial
regulatory agencies proposed new appraisal requirements for
higher-risk mortgage loans as part of the financial system
overhauls required under the Dodd-Frank Act.  The rule would require lenders for those mortgages to use
certified appraisers who prepare written reports based on a
physical inspection of the home, the Fed said in a statement
yesterday. The agencies also proposed requiring creditors to
disclose the purpose of the appraisal to applicants and give
them free copies of the reports.  Under the Dodd-Frank Act, mortgage loans are considered
higher risk if they’re backed by the borrower’s home and have
interest rates above a certain level. The Fed is seeking
comments on the rules, which it is proposing jointly with the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp., Federal Housing Finance Agency, National Credit Union
Administration and Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.  Oil Industry Calls for U.S. to Release Offshore Drilling Rule  Energy companies and environmentalists said the Interior
Department should move quickly and issue a final rule tightening
safety requirements for offshore drilling operations after the
 BP Plc (BP/)  oil spill more than two years ago.  The Natural Resources Defense Council of New York wants the
new regulation to require companies such as BP and  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  to demonstrate their spill-containment equipment works
before they start drilling. The American Petroleum Institute
asked the Interior Department to require less testing in its
final rule than in interim regulations introduced shortly after
the BP disaster.  BP is the largest holder of the leases in the deep waters
of the Gulf of Mexico, where its Macondo well  exploded  in April
2010, killing 11 rig workers and spilling millions of barrels of
oil.  The Interior Department’s Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement, which is writing the rule, didn’t
have any immediate comment. David Pettit, a senior attorney at
the Natural Resources Defense Council, in a telephone interview,
agreed that the administration has had sufficient time to draft
its rule and should do it quickly.  Compliance Action  Finra Expels WJB Capital, Bars Chief for Misstating Records  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority expelled WJB
Capital Group Inc. for misstating financial records and barred
the firm’s chief executive officer from the securities industry.  A Finra statement yesterday cited events from 2009 through
2011 at New York-based WJB, which shut its brokerage in January.
Craig Rothfeld, the CEO, and Chief Financial Officer Gregory
Maleski misstated the firm’s finances on its balance sheet,
including the conversion of $9.8 million in compensation for 28
employees to forgivable loans, Finra said.  The firm then failed to provide for the appropriate payment
of taxes, Finra said. Had WJB appropriately recorded the loans
and tax obligations, the firm would have showed “substantial
losses” in addition to those already occurring, Finra said.  WJB halted operations following a year in which the firm
faced slower trading, a shortage of capital, and interest rates
of 25 percent on some debts. Rothfeld and Maleski, who was
barred from acting in a principal capacity, also misclassified
certain items as allowable for net capital purposes, Finra said.
As a result, WJB made securities transactions in 2011 while it
was below its minimum required net capital, according to the
statement.  Mark Skolnick, who was general counsel for WJB Capital in
January, didn’t respond to messages seeking comment. Attempts to
reach Rothfeld and Maleski weren’t immediately successful.
Rothfeld, Maleski and WJB neither admitted nor denied the
accusations and consented to the entry of Finra’s findings, the
regulator said in the statement.  United Bank Nigeria to Seek Local License for Zambian Unit  United Bank for Africa Plc , a Nigerian lender, has applied
for a local license for its Zambian unit to meet the southern
African country’s new capital requirements.  The banking license requires $20 million of capital
compared with $100 million for foreign operations, Phillips
Oduoza, the group’s chief executive officer, told reporters
yesterday in the Ugandan capital, Kampala.  The license may help the bank gain local shareholders,
Oduoza said.  The conversion of the unit into a local bank follows a
directive last month by Nigeria’s central bank to deter lenders
from funding foreign operations. Banks must obtain new funds to
recapitalize their foreign units and won’t be allowed to use
money already raised by their parent companies, it said.  All the bank’s foreign subsidiaries except the Zambian unit
are fully capitalized, Oduoza said. The bank operates in 15
other African countries and has offices in U.K., France and the
U.S., according to its website.  Standard Chartered’s N.Y. Probe Ends as U.S. Inquiries Loom  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN) , having settled a New York money
laundering probe for $340 million the day before it was to
defend its right to operate in the state, still faces federal
inquiries over claims it helped sanctioned nations including
Iran illegally funnel money through the U.S.  Regulators including the U.S. Treasury, Federal Reserve,
Justice Department and Manhattan district attorney declined
immediate attempts at a global settlement, said two people
familiar with the matter. A coordinated effort was already in
progress before New York’s unilateral deal, announced Aug. 14 by
financial regulator  Benjamin Lawsky , one of the people said.  The agreement doesn’t take into account all of the bank’s
alleged violations, including those involving nations such as
Sudan, said one of the people, who added that September is the
earliest a universal deal may be reached. Shares of the bank
rose as much as 5.1 percent in London yesterday as the New York
settlement removed one pressing risk to the  bank .  One analyst estimated that the bank’s loss of its New York
license could have resulted in a 40 percent drop in earnings.  On Aug. 6, Lawsky issued an order accusing  Standard
Chartered  of helping Iran launder about $250 billion in
violation of federal laws. He accused the bank of a decade of
deception, including keeping false records, in handling
lucrative wire transfers for Iranian clients.  The  New York regulator  said Aug. 14 in a statement that
“the parties have agreed that the conduct at issue involved
transactions of at least $250 billion.” The $340 million fine
will go to Lawsky’s agency, New York’s Department of Financial
Services, and the state. The settlement includes a provision for
on-site monitoring.  For more, click here.  Morgan Stanley Unit Fined Over Junior Trader’s $1.3 Billion Bet  Morgan Stanley (MS)  Smith Barney, the brokerage venture of
Morgan Stanley and  Citigroup Inc. (C) , was fined $450,000 after a
trader amassed a $1.3 billion bet in 2009, Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority records show.  The brokerage didn’t have enough controls in place to
detect that Jared Weinryt, 31, had breached his $116 million
trading limit as he made overnight bets on futures, Finra said
this month. The trades led to losses for Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney of about $14.9 million, according to Finra.  Regulators are pressing Wall Street to heighten risk
controls after multibillion-dollar trading losses at UBS AG and
JPMorgan Chase & Co., the collapse of MF Global Holdings Ltd.,
and Knight Capital Group Inc.’s $270 million loss.  Morgan Stanley Smith Barney “detected the trading activity
by a former employee that occurred three years ago, stopped it
promptly, reported it to regulators, and has since added new
controls designed to prevent a reoccurrence,” Christine Jockle,
a spokeswoman for the unit, said in an e-mailed statement.  The brokerage employed Weinryt from 2006 to 2009, Finra
records show. He bought and sold futures, agreements to trade
assets at set prices and dates. He now works in the
institutional fixed-income sales division of Palm Beach Gardens,
Florida-based Kiley Partners Inc.  “We were delighted to have an opportunity to employ a
smart and talented employee like Jared Weinryt,” Chief
Executive Officer Michael Kiley said yesterday in a phone
interview. He “does a great job for us and his clients.”  The industry regulator suspended Weinryt from trading for
two months and fined him $7,500 earlier this year, records show.
He consented to the sanctions without admitting or denying the
findings, according to Finra.  Weinryt declined to comment.  Taiwan Government Mulls Selling Stakes in Some Companies  The Taiwan government is considering selling shares of some
financial companies. The government holds only small stakes in
companies such as  Waterland Financial (2889) ,  Yuanta Financial (2885) ,  China
Development Financial (2883)  and  Taiwan Life Insurance (2823) , Deputy Finance
Minister Tseng Ming-chung says by phone.  There are no details on stake sale, Tseng said.  The government is also considering easing the ban on the
sale of state-owned land in Taipei City and New Taipei City
under for sales under 500 ping, Tseng said.  A ping is a standard measure of space in Taiwan, equal to
3.3 square meters, or about 36 square feet.  Separately, the Taiwan government said it may sell shares
of companies it doesn’t control, the Economic Daily News
reported, citing an interview with Finance Minister Chang Sheng-
ford.  Courts  Credit Suisse Sued by OK! Magazine Mogul in U.K. Over Swaps  Richard Desmond , chairman of the Northern & Shell Plc media
group, sued a  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN)  unit for selling him a 50
million-pound ($78.5 million) derivative deal he said was
inappropriately risky and impossible to understand.  The transaction, set up in 2007, was linked to a GLG
Partners Inc. fund of hedge funds and included an interest-rate
swap.  Desmond -- whose Northern & Shell group includes the Daily
Express newspaper,  OK! Magazine  and adult channel Television X -
- sued Credit Suisse for misrepresentation, breaching financial
regulations and breach of duty. He wants the deal declared
invalid, or damages equal to the cost of unwinding it -- about
18.7 million pounds.  Bank customers from British fish shops to Indian property
companies have sued in the U.K. over interest-rate swaps they
say they didn’t need or understand. The U.K. Financial Services
Authority said in June it had agreed with banks including
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to set up a compensation
program to pay back small businesses that were sold unsuitable
products.  Vanessa Neill, a London-based spokeswoman for Credit
Suisse, and Desmond’s spokesman Sam Bowen declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Interviews  McFadden Says Barclays’s New Chairman Walker Is Credible  Pat McFadden, a Labour Party member of the U.K.
Parliament’s Treasury Committee, talked about U.K. banking
culture, regulation and the outlook for Barclays Plc under new
Chairman  David Walker .  He spoke with Manus Cranny on Bloomberg Television’s “Last
Word.”  For the video, click here.  Carlsberg CEO Not Worried About Tightened Russian Regulation  Joergen Buhl Rasmussen, chief executive officer of
 Carlsberg A/S (CARLB) , discussed the company’s second-quarter profit
reported yesterday and its business outlook, including the
prospect of tightened restrictions on advertising in the Russian
market.  He spoke from Copenhagen with Maryam Nemazee on Bloomberg
Television’s “The Pulse.”  For the video, click here.  Comings and Goings  IRS Names Carol Campbell to Head Tax Preparer Oversight Office  Carol Campbell, now deputy chief of staff of the Internal
Revenue Service, will take over the post of Head Tax Preparer
from David Williams effective next month, IRS Commissioner Doug
Shulman told the staff in e-mail yesterday.  Williams is returning to Capitol Hill.  The IRS three years ago began an effort to extend oversight
of the return-preparer industry.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in New Jersey at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 