-- CIMB May Start Broking Operations in India, South Korea
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n
-- 2012-08-16T02:41:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/cimb-may-start-broking-operations-in-india-south-korea.html
CIMB Group Holdings Bhd. (CIMB) , Southeast
Asia’s top-ranked investment bank over the past three years,
said it may start broking operations in  India  and  South Korea 
after buying most of Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc’s Asian
investment banking assets.  The Malaysian lender may acquire existing broking licenses
or apply for new ones in both countries, Nazir Razak, CIMB’s
chief executive officer, told reporters in Kuala Lumpur
yesterday, after unveiling a 14 percent jump in second-quarter
earnings. It’s still in talks to buy a 50 percent stake in
Australian brokerage RBS Morgans, he said.  “The whole idea is to build a comprehensive Asia-Pacific
stockbroking and investment banking network,” Nazir said.
“India and Korea are essential to such a network. We feel that
we must be in both markets.”  The Kuala Lumpur-based lender has spent about $2.3 billion
on 19 acquisitions since Nazir became CEO in 2006, including the
purchase announced in June of a 60 percent stake in the
Philippines’s Bank of Commerce. The RBS deal allowed CIMB to
absorb or buy  investment banking  and broking operations in
markets including  Hong Kong ,  Indonesia  and  Thailand .  Net income  climbed to 1.11 billion ringgit ($354 million),
or 14.9 sen per share, in the three months ended June, up from
970 million ringgit, or 13.1 sen, during the same period a year
earlier, according to a Kuala Lumpur exchange filing yesterday.
Even so, the group cut its dividend to 5 sen per share from 12
sen a year ago.  Big Deal  Earnings were boosted by higher net interest income, as
well as increased contributions from consumer and investment
banking, the filing showed. CIMB helped manage deals including
Felda Global Ventures Bhd.’s $3.3 billion initial public
offering in  Kuala Lumpur  in June, the world’s biggest share sale
this year after Facebook Inc.  CIMB’s  shares  fell 0.3 percent to 7.89 ringgit at 10:24
a.m. in Kuala Lumpur trading and have risen 6.1 percent this
year. The stock’s price target was raised to 8.20 ringgit from
7.60 ringgit at HwangDBS Vickers Research Sdn., analysts Lim Sue
Lin and Hon Seow Mee wrote in a report today.  “With the momentum that we built in terms of growth and
assets, we are looking at the targets we set at the beginning of
the year quite confidently,” Nazir said.  CIMB is benefiting from  Malaysia ’s resilient  economic 
growth, which unexpectedly accelerated to 5.4 percent last
quarter, according to a central bank statement yesterday. The
benchmark FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index closed at a record
yesterday, having climbed 8 percent this year.  Net interest income, or revenue from borrowers after
deducting interest paid to depositors, rose 12 percent to 1.9
billion ringgit in the quarter, CIMB said. Allowances for
impairment losses on loans and financing shrank 40 percent to
51.5 million ringgit, the company said.  The Malaysian lender is ranked first in takeover advisory
and in managing equity and bonds sales in  Southeast Asia  over
the three years to June 21, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in Kuala Lumpur at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net 
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Barry Porter at 
 bporter10@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  