-- Coinstar Posts Biggest Gain Since February on Buyout Talk
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2012-08-16T20:35:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/coinstar-has-biggest-gain-since-april-on-sale-speculation-1-.html
Coinstar Inc. (CSTR) , operator of the
Redbox movie-rental kiosks, rose the most since February on a
report, played down by the company’s chief executive officer,
that it is holding talks about a potential sale.  Coinstar, based in Bellevue, Washington, advanced 7.6
percent to $51.88 at the close in New York, more than doubling
the year-to-date  gain  to 14 percent.  “We have no idea where it came from,” Chief Executive
Officer Paul Davis said of the story, in remarks to analysts at
a Canaccord Genuity Global Growth conference in Boston. “We’re
head-down focused on running the business and we’re happy with
the progress we’re making but that’s about all we’ll comment.”  The Post reported that Coinstar has been in discussions
with an undisclosed private-equity firm for months, citing
sources it didn’t identify, and that talks are heating up. If
the negotiations don’t bear fruit,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  would make a
good fit, the newspaper said, citing unnamed industry watchers.  Drew Herdener, a spokesman for Seattle-based Amazon, didn’t
immediately respond to a request for comment.  Coinstar may be attractive to private-equity investors
because its dominance of the DVD market, said  Eric Wold , an
analyst with B. Riley & Co. in  San Francisco . He expects cash
flow from continuing operations to increase to $235 million in
2013 from an estimated $164 million this year.  The company plans to start a movie streaming service with
 Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  by the end of this year and also is
introducing a coffee kiosk business, Wold said.  “I would not be surprised if private equity was taking a
look at the company,” Wold said in an e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in  Los Angeles  at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  