-- Comcast Tops U.S. Media Stocks by Appealing to Europhobes
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-08-16T20:34:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/comcast-tops-u-s-media-stocks-by-appealing-to-europhobes-tech.html
Comcast Corp. and  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC)  have soared to the top of  S&P 500 media index  this year,
defying predictions of cable’s downfall, thanks in part to one
big selling point: They don’t do business in  Europe .  The two largest U.S. cable companies appeal to investors
who want to avoid the fallout from Europe’s debt crisis and
currency fluctuations, said  Craig Moffett , an analyst at Sanford
C. Bernstein & Co. Comcast has gained 44 percent this year and
Time Warner Cable shares have climbed 41 percent, outpacing
 their media peers  and the  S&P 500 , which is up 13 percent.  The gains don’t indicate anything specifically about the
cable industry, Moffett said. Portfolio managers want U.S. cable
providers as protection against Europe and  Latin America , and
that outweighs the specific challenges that the companies face,
such as the risk that customers may switch to satellite services
or Netflix Inc. The sentiment has been a boon to the stocks and
other peers, such as  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the fourth-
largest U.S. cable company, which has gained 38 percent in 2012.  “Investors are piling into cable as reasonably defensive
names that have no exposure to Europe and foreign currency,”
said Moffett, who is based in  New York . “None of that has any
connection to the business itself. Pricing power, Netflix and
cord cutting don’t even come up in the conversation.”  Scripps Network  Shares of Philadelphia-based  Comcast (CMCSA)  were little changed in
today’s trading, closing at $34.14. Time Warner Cable, based in
New York, was little changed as well, at $89.55. Another company
with no European exposure -- Scripps Network Interactive, a
Cincinnati, Ohio-based owner of U.S. cable channels such as HGTV
and the Food Network -- ranks third on the  S&P 500 media index (S5MEDA) 
this year.  Cable critics point to years of cable-TV customer losses
and falling video margins as signs of the industry’s decline.
Comcast has reported losses in total video subscribers for 21
consecutive quarters. And programming fees -- the money
companies such as  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  and  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  charge pay-TV
providers to carry their channels -- are increasing at a faster
rate than what cable companies can pass on to customers.  The video losses suggest some customers are cutting the
cord on cable altogether, opting instead to watch video with
online services such as Netflix, Hulu LLC and Google Inc.’s
YouTube. The evidence is mixed, as some of the cable losses can
be explained by customers switching to other pay-TV services,
including  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s U-verse and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ’s
FiOS. Moffett and other analysts, such as Barclays Capital
Inc.’s  James Ratcliffe , point to weak construction of new homes
as another explanation for losses.  Stable Business  “Fundamentally, we continue to view the business as
stable, with video a largely zero-sum business,” Ratcliffe
wrote in a note to clients last week.  Stability, rather than soaring growth, may be enough to
persuade investors to buy, Moffett said. Comcast and Time Warner
Cable’s lack of international revenue has shielded them from the
euro’s 14 percent decline and the Brazilian real’s 21 percent
fall against the dollar over the past 12 months. Having no
foreign exposure makes U.S. cable a safe bet for investor
managers looking to build a hedged portfolio, Moffett said.  Deals for smaller private cable operators have also lifted
cable stocks because they’re being completed at higher earnings
multiples than larger companies command,  Mario Gabelli , chief
executive officer of Gamco Investors Inc., said in an interview.  Cogeco Deal  Last month,  Cogeco Cable Inc. (CCA)  paid 8.3 times Atlantic
Broadband’s estimated annual earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization. Atlantic is the 14th-largest U.S.
cable provider, according to the company’s website. Later that
day, a group including  BC Partners , CPP Investment Board and CEO
Jerry Kent agreed to purchase Suddenlink Communications, the
seventh-largest U.S. cable company, at 8.5 times estimated
Ebitda, according to data compiled by Bloomberg Industries.  Even after this year’s stock surges, Comcast is valued at
about 7 times next year’s estimated Ebitda and Time Warner Cable
trades at about 6.4 times. That’s a sign public investors aren’t
seeing the same value in cable as the private market, Gabelli
said.  Consistent dividend growth and share buybacks are the other
essential pieces to cable’s rise this year, Moffett said.
Comcast raised its quarterly dividend  44 percent  this year to
16.25 cents a share. Time Warner Cable increased its payment 17
percent to 56 cents a share. Time Warner Cable announced a $4
billion share buyback plan in January, followed by Comcast’s
authorization of a $6.5 billion repurchase plan in February.  ‘Right Profile’  “Cable stocks screen well,” Moffett said. “Rapid
dividend growth, no European exposure and consistent stock
buybacks. It’s just the right profile at just the right time.”  D’Arcy Rudnay, a Comcast spokeswoman, declined to comment.
 Alex Dudley , a spokesman for Time Warner Cable, disputed the
notion that his company’s stock is popular because of the
European crisis.  “We find it hard to believe that generating very strong
free  cash flow  and returning the vast majority of that to
shareholders will ever go out of style,” he said.  New approaches to Internet pricing also have bolstered the
stocks, Gabelli said. Both cable companies are moving toward
charging consumers by how much bandwidth they use. Time Warner
Cable debuted an optional consumption-based billing plan for
light users in March, and Comcast abandoned data caps in favor
of charging for when customers go over 300 gigabytes a month.  Moneymaking Opportunity  “Cable companies are migrating to measured pricing, a new
way to make money,” said Gabelli, whose funds own about 430,000
Time Warner Cable shares and about 15 million shares of
 Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC) , the fifth-largest U.S. cable company.
“The whole world wants to get speedier broadband.”  While cable has struggled to gain TV subscribers, the
industry has been dominant in picking up Internet customers.
Comcast and Time Warner Cable have netted a combined 3.27
million broadband subscribers over the past eight quarters.  “There’s no question that there is a bias toward large-cap
American companies that don’t have European exposure, but it’s
good cash flow, buying back stock, broadband and good
management,” Gabelli said. “That’s the story.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net  