-- Coulson Phone-Hacking Case Transferred to Criminal Court
-- B y   E r i k   L a r s o n
-- 2012-08-16T11:17:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/coulson-phone-hacking-case-transferred-to-criminal-court-1-.html
Andy Coulson , a former editor of
 News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World tabloid and ex-press chief of
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron , appeared in court for the
first time with six other people charged with phone hacking.  Following a 30-minute hearing at Westminster Magistrates
Court in London, Judge Daphne Wickham transferred the case to a
higher criminal court where they will eventually enter pleas in
the conspiracy case. A hearing at Southwark Crown Court was
scheduled for additional proceedings on Sept. 26.  The group, including ex-managing editor Stuart Kuttner,
sought between 2000 and 2006 to hack the mobile-phone messages
of more than 600 people, including U.S. actors  Brad Pitt  and
 Angelina Jolie , soccer player  Wayne Rooney  and murdered British
schoolgirl Milly Dowler. The men were charged last month
following a probe that started more than a year and a half ago.  Also in court today were ex-chief reporter Neville Thurlbeck, former news editor Ian Edmondson, former assistant
editors Greg Miskiw and James Weatherup, and former private
investigator  Glenn Mulcaire . Rebekah Brooks, who was chief
executive officer of News Corp.’s U.K. unit until last year,
faces the same charges and is scheduled to appear at a separate
hearing on Sept. 3.  Rupert Murdoch  News Corp., controlled by Chairman  Rupert Murdoch , a friend
of Brooks, is splitting the company to move on from the scandal
that resulted in about 60 arrests and revealed cozy ties between
the company and U.K. politicians. Coulson, who edited the News
of the World tabloid when the phone-hacking scandal started in
2006, was Cameron’s press chief until last year when questions
emerged about his knowledge of the practice.  The men in court today were freed on bail on the condition
they not speak to each other or two other suspects who still
face potential charges, former News of the World journalists Dan
Evans and Neil Wallis. The group must also tell police if they
plan to leave the country.  Murdoch closed the 168-year-old tabloid in July 2011 to
contain public outrage over the practice and resigned last month
from three of the New York-based company’s boards, including
News International’s. He has said the company’s planned split
isn’t related to the scandal.  The journalists, who have been free on bail since being
arrested throughout last year, were charged as they arrived at
police stations in London last month. Brooks was charged Aug. 2,
resulting in her later hearing date. The charges could lead to
two-year prison terms.  2006 Probe  This is the second time the scandal has triggered criminal
charges, though the first round in 2006 involved only Mulcaire
and the tabloid’s former royal reporter,  Clive Goodman . Both men
pleaded guilty and served as many as six months in prison in
2007. While the extent of the scandal remained unknown at the
time, Coulson resigned as the News of the World’s editor in
response to the pleas.  Police opened a new probe in January 2011 after evidence
was uncovered in civil lawsuits. Coulson quit as Cameron’s top
media adviser in response.  The group in today’s hearing, aside from Mulcaire, was
charged with conspiring to intercept communications “without
lawful authority,” the CPS said last month. They each face
separate claims related to specific victims, including
politicians and family members of celebrities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Larson in  London  at 
 elarson4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  