-- Credit Suisse Sued by OK! Magazine Mogul Over Swaps Deal
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-08-16T11:27:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/credit-suisse-sued-by-ok-magazine-mogul-over-swaps-deal.html
Richard Desmond , chairman of the
Northern & Shell Plc media group, sued a  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
unit for selling him a 50 million-pound ($78.5 million)
derivative deal he said was inappropriately risky and impossible
to understand.  “It was incomprehensible except to an expert in complex
derivative transactions,” according to legal papers filed by
Desmond in July and made available this week. The transaction,
set up in 2007, was linked to a GLG Partners Inc. fund of  hedge
funds  and included an interest-rate swap.  Desmond -- whose Northern & Shell group includes the Daily
Express newspaper,  OK! Magazine  and adult channel Television X -
- sued Credit Suisse for misrepresentation, breaching financial
regulations and breach of duty. He wants the deal declared
invalid, or damages equal to the cost of unwinding it -- about
18.7 million pounds.  Bank customers from British fish shops to Indian property
companies have sued in the U.K. over  interest-rate swaps  they
say they didn’t need or understand. The U.K. Financial Services
Authority said in June it had agreed with banks including
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  to set up a compensation
program to pay back small businesses that were sold unsuitable
products.  “It appears to be yet another case of a bank confusing
‘high net worth’ with ‘sophisticated,’” said Max Hotham, a
lawyer at London-based Enyo Law who specializes in improper
security sales cases against banks.  Investors ‘Seduced’  “Individuals were seduced to enter into increasingly
exotic products on the basis of selective sales literature,
which didn’t alert the recipient as to their maximum potential
exposure,”  Hotham  said.  Vanessa Neill , a London-based spokeswoman for Credit
Suisse, and Desmond’s spokesman  Sam Bowen  declined to comment.  Desmond put about a quarter of his 200 million-pound
fortune into the transaction, according to his court filings. He
was given a misleading impression of potential returns and told
the only risk was that the counterparty went bankrupt.  The deal couldn’t be unwound in 2008 because of an “asset
disruption” event, leaving Desmond making payments under the
swap. It was “unsuitable and/or inappropriately risky for Mr.
Desmond,” according to the filings.  2007 Transaction  GLG employee Andrew Thatcher first approached Desmond with
the transaction in 2007. The media mogul was never told what the
underlying investment was, according to his filing. It was “in
effect a combination of a 50 million-pound synthetic loan and a
synthetic investment.”  David Waller, a spokesman for  Man Group Plc (EMG) , which bought
GLG in 2010, said Thatcher had left the firm. He declined to
comment on the Desmond suit.  Interest-rate swaps are contracts that convert floating-
rate debt into fixed-rate debt, or vice versa. They became
unprofitable for many customers when rates fell to record lows
after the 2008 financial crash.  The case is: Mr. Richard Clive Desmond v. Credit Suisse
International,  High Court  of Justice, Queen’s  Bench Division ,
Commercial Court, 12-983.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  