-- CSX Stacks Boxes Higher for 10% Gain Threatening Trucks
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/csx-stacks-boxes-higher-for-10-gain-threatening-trucks.html
CSX Corp.’s container cargoes have
increased about 10 percent for two straight quarters as eastern
U.S. railroads invest billions in a business that threatens the
trucking industry’s most lucrative shipments.  CSX and smaller Norfolk Southern Corp. are expanding yards,
bridges and tunnels to make room for more cars carrying
containers that can move by rail, highway or water. The upgrades
will help blunt the impact of falling coal volumes and meet
demand from trucking customers for an alternative to rate
increases driven by higher  fuel  prices.  Shippers may save 15 percent to 20 percent when they send
goods via so-called intermodal service using rail rather than by
truck alone, with savings varying with the route and length of
haul, said  Kevin Sterling , a BB&T Capital Markets analyst in
Richmond,  Virginia .  “It’s a meaningful difference,” Sterling said in a
telephone interview. “The rails need freight, and intermodal
represents a big opportunity.”  Railroads are pushing intermodal service as a way to
improve shippers’ speed and efficiency. Containers can be taken
from a ship or truck at an intermodal terminal, stacked on
special flatcars -- sometimes one atop another -- and hauled by
the hundreds on one train to another terminal. Trucks then carry
the boxes from that site to a warehouse, factory or store.  Class I railroads, the largest in  North America , reported
shipments of 3.92 million intermodal units in the second
quarter, according to data from the  American Association  of
Railroads. That’s an increase of 6.7 percent from the three
months through March and 5.1 percent from a year earlier. Only
total commodity carloads were higher.  Oil Prices  Before 2004, when  oil prices  were lower, a 600- to 700-mile
intermodal rail shipment wasn’t worth it for many customers,
said David Vernon, a New York-based analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. Those shippers opted to send their goods via
truck instead.  “Fast forward to oil being $80, $90 a barrel and highway
diesel being a lot more expensive, you start to see more and
more interest in those shorter lengths of haul,” Vernon said.  The domestic container cargo business at CSX, the biggest
eastern U.S. railroad, has been growing 6 percent to 7 percent a
year for the past four to five years, Chief Executive Officer
Mike Ward said in a telephone interview.  Investments in the National Gateway and a northwest  Ohio 
terminal are positioning CSX to vie for about 9 million
truckload opportunities longer than 550 miles (885 kilometers),
the distance at which the Jacksonville, Florida-based company
says it can start to compete with truckers.  Huge Market  The Gateway is a project raising the height of tunnels and
bridge clearances to accommodate rail cars with double-stacked
containers traveling from mid-Atlantic seaports to the Midwest.
The routes parallel interstate highways such as I-95 from  North
Carolina  to Baltimore and I-70 from  Washington , D.C, to
northwest Ohio.  “There’s a huge market to go after,” Ward said, referring
to intermodal operations. “The pie is so big we can all have a
nice big slice and enjoy ourselves. That’s why you are seeing us
expanding terminals, as is Norfolk Southern.”  CSX’s intermodal shipments increased 9.6 percent to 484,000
in the second quarter, on a year-to-year basis, compared with
growth of 11 percent to 471,000 in the previous three months,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Its intermodal cargoes still lag behind Norfolk Southern,
which saw them increase 3.3 percent to about 659,000 in the
second quarter and 1.9 percent in the previous three months.  New Yards  Both railroads have been raising clearances on routes and
building new yards to take advantage of the growth.  Norfolk
Southern (NSC) , based in Norfolk, Virginia, budgeted $2.4 billion for
property additions this year.  The railroad is buying land for intermodal yards, laying
down double track and making other facility improvements geared
toward a high-capacity route from  New Jersey  to  Louisiana  that
will compete with trucks along several major interstate
highways, the railroad said in a filing.  CSX plans to invest $2.3 billion this year, with more than
half expected to go toward infrastructure enhancement, Lauren Rueger, a spokeswoman, said in an e-mailed statement.  The company “continues to see record domestic intermodal
volume” driven by customers switching from highway to rail,
Rueger said.  The competitive threat to trucking, along with challenges
from higher fuel prices and a shortage of drivers, is reflected
in investor valuations of the two industries.  ‘Losing Share’  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Railroads Index (S5RAIL)  has climbed 12
percent in 2012, with CSX gaining 9.2 percent and Norfolk
Southern advancing 2.6 percent. The increases all outpace growth
of 1.3 percent in the  Bloomberg U.S. Truckload Trucking Index (BNUSTLIX) ,
which includes Swift Transportation Co., based in Phoenix.  Trucking “companies that have not embraced intermodal risk
losing share,” said  Lee Klaskow , a Bloomberg Industries analyst
in Skillman, New Jersey. “It’s not going away unless capacity
in the rail industry is so tight they can’t provide a quality
service.”  Shipment volumes in long-haul trucking, which typically
generates more revenue per load than shorter trips, declined on
a year-to-year basis for the first three quarters of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Gains in the first half
of this year have been less than 10 percent.  Truckers that move into intermodal, such as J.B. Hunt
Transport Services Inc., based in Lowell,  Arkansas , and Swift
Transportation, are benefiting from the need for drivers to pick
up rail shipments and carry them on their final leg.  ‘Tremendous Opportunities’  J.B. Hunt, which has arrangements with most major North
American rails to transport truckload freight in containers,
gets more than  half its revenue  from hauling the container cars.
In the second quarter, the company’s intermodal revenue grew 13
percent compared with revenue from trucking, which fell about 3
percent.  Hub Group Inc. (HUBG)  is increasing its containers by 2,100 to
24,000 for the peak shipping season, and will remove only 1,000
afterward.  Local shipping on the East Coast offers “tremendous
opportunities” to win customers converting from truckload
shipments to intermodal, Hub Group CEO David Yeager said on a
July earnings call.  Previously, “rails didn’t really have the infrastructure
prior or the length of haul and the cost to be able to compete
effectively against truck,” he said. “That’s no longer the
case.”  Shipping Strategy  The freight-transport management company, based in  Downers
Grove ,  Illinois , drew about  65 percent  of its $2.75 billion in
sales last year from intermodal.  Many customers want to switch to the service “from a
strategic perspective over the long term as they expect that
there is going to be some underlying dynamics within the
truckload sector which are not going to be favorable,” Yeager
said.  Swift Transportation plans to add 2,000 containers by
November in order to raise its intermodal revenue opportunities.  “More and more of those traditional trucking companies are
partnering up and including intermodal as their service,”
Jonathan Starks, director of transportation analysis at FTR
Associates, said in a telephone interview. Intermodal is
“slowly growing a little bit of market share into some more
traditional truck segments. That occurs slowly over time. It
doesn’t tend to make big, deep, broad strokes.”  FedEx, UPS  Intermodal service has garnered high-profile customers such
as FedEx Corp. and United Parcel Service Inc., which pay
railroads for long-distance transportation before putting their
packages on trucks for final delivery to customers.  UPS typically uses intermodal for ground deliveries
traveling more than 750 miles,  Susan Rosenberg , a UPS
spokeswoman, said in an interview.  The company’s growth in intermodal has helped improve
container car rail service by pushing the carriers to be on time
and more efficient, BB&T’s Sterling said.  “The rails see this as an opportunity to take the service
to other shippers,” Sterling said. “They can walk through
shipper’s doors and say ‘We’re doing this for UPS, we can do it
for you.’”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Heather Perlberg in  New York  at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  