-- Cusack Sparring Pimco On Underwater Mortgages as Risk Falls
-- B y   J o d y   S h e n n
-- 2012-08-16T17:54:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/cusack-spars-with-pimco-on-underwater-mortgages-as-risk-recedes.html
More local governments from New York
to California are considering plans to seize mortgages to
protect their housing markets against homeowners abandoning
properties with values below what they owe.  They may be a year too late. Data on the loans
municipalities are being advised to target show fewer borrowers
with underwater mortgages are defaulting and when they stop
paying, modifications increasingly include balance cuts. The
number of Americans with negative  home equity  is also falling as
housing  recovers  from its worst slump since the 1930s, Chris Katopis, head of the Association of Mortgage Investors, said at
an Aug. 14 hearing held by a Chicago city council panel.  A group of officials formed to weigh the strategy in San
Bernardino County, California,  met  today for a second time to
discuss using eminent domain, whose advocates include  Yale
University ’s  Robert Shiller  and actor  John Cusack , who attended
the Chicago hearing. They’re sparring with bondholders such as
Pacific Investment Management Co., banks and real-estate firms.  The declining need for the tactic is “a point we’ve been
trying to make subtly,” said Tim Cameron, a managing director
at the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association,
Wall Street’s largest lobbying group. “The market is coming
around and there have been more principal reductions than some
would want to believe.”  Debt Investors  Cameron, who also spoke at the three-hour Chicago hearing,
traveled from New York to join Katopis to argue in San
Bernardino against the idea. Opponents are focusing on the
potential illegality, effect on new lending and unfairness to
debt investors  “The eyes of the nation are on this organization,” Mark Dowling, chief executive officer of the Inland Valley
Association of Realtors, said today at the hearing held by a so-called Joint Powers Authority created in June by the county and
cities of Fontana and Ontario in California.  The entity hasn’t studied and shared enough data to
evaluate how to help homeowners, Dowling said. County Chief
Executive OfficerGreg Devereaux, its head, said it will prepare
a public request for proposals to protect homeownership and
prevent foreclosures. They will seek plans beyond just the use
of eminent domain to seize loans, he said.  The document will be evaluated at the authority’s next
meeting, whose date wasn’t scheduled. The entity wasn’t set up
to solely consider the eminent domain plan being pitched to
communities across the U.S. by  Mortgage Resolution Partners LLC ,
Devereaux said at least three times.  Cusack Support  Cusack, the Evanston, Illinois-raised actor who starred in
“Say Anything...” and “Grosse Pointe Blank,” said in a Aug.
13  video interview  with the  Huffington Post  that plan addresses
the “question of fundamental fairness” for homeowners as
federal officials fail to act aggressively enough, and would
“help reset the markets.”  The program touted by San Francisco-based Mortgage
Resolution Partners, which is seeking to profit from managing
parts of the process, would target loans held by bonds without
government backing.  Its  proposal  involves governments forcefully buying non-delinquent mortgages for less than what borrowers owe.
Homeowners could then get their loans refinanced into smaller,
federally-backed ones. Using eminent domain is justified because
stabilizing housing and reducing  vacant properties  is in the
public interest, and bondholders would receive cash deemed to be
the fair value of their loans, the firm says.  Breaking Contracts  “It might have been the reasonable thing to do in the
teeth of the crisis,” said  Mark Zandi , the chief economist at
Moody’s Analytics Inc. who this week advocated with Nobel Laureate  Joseph Stiglitz  for federal legislation to aid
underwater homeowners. “The risks are much less significant
today,” meaning policy makers should avoid “breaking
contracts” and potentially damaging lending, he said.  In San Bernardino, 14,378 loans might have qualified for
such a program in June 2011 by being at least 15 percent
underwater, current and packaged into so-called non-agency
mortgage bonds, according to a July 31 report by Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc.  As of this June, 81 percent of those were still being paid
on time, according to RBS analysts Scott Gimpel, Charles Shuey III and Daniel O’Connor. For loans that would have qualified in
2010, only 78 percent were current after 12 months, compared
with 69 percent for loans in 2009 and 49 percent in 2008. The
trend was similar in other areas considering the idea, such as
Chicago and Suffolk County, New York, they wrote.  First Defaults  The share of all loans in non-agency securities that
defaulted for the first time dropped to a 7.5 percent annual
pace in July, according to Amherst Securities Group LP data. The
rate, which peaked at more than 25 percent in 2009, declined
from 9.5 percent a year earlier, as unemployment fell and
borrowers lived in their homes for longer.  Underwater homeowners remain a threat to housing, including
those who continue to pay, according to Mortgage Resolution
Partners President Steven Gluckstern, a former senior insurance
executive including at the reinsurance operations at Warren
Buffett’s Berkshire Hathaway Inc.  “Eventually, they all stop,” Gluckstern, also an initial
member of the national finance committee for President  Barack
Obama ’s 2008 election, said Aug. 10 on  Bloomberg Radio . “There
will be no recovery until this problem has been addressed.”  Bank Settlement  Homeowners who default may be growing more likely to
receive principal reductions after a February  settlement  of
federal and state probes into shoddy foreclosure practices by
five large mortgage servicers, according to an Aug. 10 report by
Barclays Plc. The $25 billion accord offers the banks credit for
reworking debt, including loans in bonds owned by others, with a
greater amount granted for lowering balances.  The trend among subprime loans has been most dramatic among
modifications of those in securities issued from 2005 through
2007 by Countrywide Financial Corp. and still serviced by  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) , according to Barclays analysts including
Dennis Lee and Sandeep Bordia. Bank of America bought the lender
in 2008 and oversees 27 percent of all non-agency mortgages.  In July, debt forgiveness was applied about 55 percent of
the time when those loans were reworked, up from less than 30
percent during 2010 and 2011, according to their data.  Wells
Fargo & Co. (WFC)  used principal forgiveness in 67 percent of non-agency modifications last month, while  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
applied it 71 percent of the time, the analysts said, with both
increasing the rate.  Underwater Borrowers  Federal incentives for balance cuts also rose this year
under Obama’s Home Affordable Modification Program. New HAMP
trials fell to 16,300 in July, the lowest since the program’s
start in 2009, according to Barclays.  The number of underwater homeowners has dropped after some
borrowers lost properties and housing stabilized. The total fell
to 11.4 million, or 23.7 percent of those with mortgages, in the
first quarter, from 12.1 million in the previous period,
according to real-estate data firm CoreLogic Inc.  Property prices, which almost doubled from 2000 through
their July 2006 peak, then  declined  35 percent through February,
according to an S&P/Case Shiller index. The measure of values in
20 large U.S. metropolitan areas gained 3.6 percent through May.  Values in the San Bernardino-Riverside area, east of  Los
Angeles , were 47 percent below their June 2006 peak as of May,
after gaining 1.5 percent from a year earlier, according to
Lender Processing Services data. About half of San Bernardino
mortgage borrowers are underwater, according to Devereaux.  Bondholder Opposition  Money managers AllianceBernstein LP and Western Asset
Management Co. and groups that lobby for banks including the
Housing Policy Council and real-estate firms such as the
 National Association of Home Builders  say seizing loans isn’t an
appropriate response.  Scott Simon , the mortgage head at Pimco,
which runs the world’s largest bond fund, has said it would be a
“nail in the coffin” for the private mortgage market.  Chicago Mayor  Rahm Emanuel , the former chief of staff to
Obama, also said Aug. 14 that he doesn’t “think it’s the right
way to address the problem,” the  Chicago Tribune  reported.  Shiller, the Yale economics professor who warned of a
housing bubble in the 2005 edition of his book “ Irrational
Exuberance ,” has supported the idea. He wrote in a June 23 op-ed in the New York Times that “we have to stop the wishful
thinking that the problem will solve itself through a
spontaneous rally in  home prices .”  ‘Back Off’  California Lieutenant Governor Gavin Newsom said in a July
27  statement  that industry groups should “back off” while the
concept is examined.  Zandi of Moody’s said in a telephone interview that “we’re
clearly moving in the right direction but the risks of things
going south are uncomfortably high” with the economy fragile.  That’s why in a Aug. 12 New York Times op-ed he joined with
Stiglitz to back a bill to refinance underwater non-agency loans
into a new government-financed trust that would lower borrowers’
payments or shorten their terms, Zandi said. At the Chicago
hearing, Katopis of mortgage-investor group also supported that
idea, which would repay bondholders in full for loans.  Et Snell, who  describes  himself as a community activist,
said at the hearing today that the eminent domain idea
represents a “band aid over a bullet hole,” and would take too
long to implement because of lawsuits. In the meantime, county
officials are doing nothing to help residents in foreclosure
living without utilities like electricity, he said.  “Time is of the essence to come up with something,” Snell
said. “Instead of shaking down the mortgage companies, we need
to sit down and put our heads together and solve this whole
mess.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jody Shenn in New York at 
 jshenn@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net . 