-- Czechs Have Luxury to Cut Rates More, Policy Maker Says
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-08-16T08:49:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/czechs-have-luxury-to-cut-rates-more-policy-maker-says.html
The Czech central bank has more room
to cut interest rates before it applies less conventional policy
tools to ease monetary conditions, Vice Governor Vladimir Tomsik
said.  Tomsik commented on economic trends and the monetary-policy
outlook in an interview in  Prague  yesterday.  NEW FORECAST AND ECONOMIC TRENDS:  “The new forecast includes a significant slowdown in
economic growth in the effective  euro zone , representing the
Czech Republic’s main trading partners, and that is one of the
most important factors for me.  ‘‘The forecast reflects expectations of a great decline in
market-interest rates in the euro zone, which would bring them
to an even lower level than after the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers .  ‘‘This means our new forecast clearly assumes a significant
decline in foreign demand, and it also assumes a notable
weakening of domestic demand.  ‘‘The only inflation pressures are now coming from the tax
changes, the impact of past depreciation of the exchange rate
and commodity prices. I don’t see demand-driven inflation.  ‘‘The flash GDP estimate is the first more important piece
of information that certainly isn’t speaking against the latest
forecast.  ‘‘We have been registering very weak household consumption
in several recent quarters, and its growth rate seems to be the
weakest in the modern history of the independent  Czech Republic .
This is also documented in savings levels, which are quite high
and are now at pre-crisis levels, meaning people are deferring
consumption.’’  ON MONETARY POLICY OUTLOOK:  ‘‘It’s possible to take a wait-and-see approach, as the
majority of the board members did. I didn’t choose that
approach, because if you take the wait-and-see approach, and the
forecast materializes, then it means that a stronger policy
action will be needed.  ‘‘I will be asking how great is the risk that the absence
of an action now, to lower interest rates, could result in
inflation moving below the forecast.  ‘‘The forecast already assumes lower interest rates in the
next several quarters. It’s still possible to make up for this
delay, but the wait-and-see approach means running the risk of
applying sharper steps.  ‘‘The good news for me is that the market interest rates,
and outlook expressed in FRA rates, are showing a declining
tendency. So the trend is in line with the forecast; the
question is how to reach the absolute levels.’’  ON POLICY INSTRUMENTS:  ‘‘One of the tools of monetary policy is transparent
communication. I personally think that sometimes it’s not
necessary to conduct monetary policy through adjusting interest
rates by decimal points, but it may be enough to signal our
intention and the market will follow.  ‘‘In this respect, we presented our direction now, the
forecast signals where market interest rates should move. If I
see that this isn’t materializing, and if there is a risk of
zero or even negative interest rates, I am not ruling out using
any instruments, and their combination, to achieve the desired
result.  ‘‘For me, a zero  interest rate  is a technical barrier,
which we don’t necessarily have to reach. It may be enough if
market interest rates fulfill the assumptions of the forecast.
And if it doesn’t happen, I am personally ready to take all
necessary steps to achieve our inflation target and help
stabilize inflation expectations.  ‘‘The Czech financial market is healthy and fully
functioning, and, compared with some markets abroad, we don’t
need to correct any distortions here.  ‘‘There is no crisis of confidence in the Czech financial
market, there is no problem with liquidity, there is no need to
correct any systemic problems of banks or deleveraging.  ‘‘So any other tools, some may call them unconventional,
would reflect the state of the financial market here. In this
case, it would make sense to use these additional instruments
that wouldn’t be about quantitative effects but about decreasing
the long end of the yield curve to achieve stable long-term
inflation expectations. If I were to act, I would be aiming to
prevent a shift into deflation expectations.  ‘‘I don’t want to mention any specific instruments now,
because we still have the luxury of not fully exhausting the
room for adjusting interest rates. I’m sure that at the moment
when there is a risk to inflation expectations, and the scope
for adjusting interest rates was used up already, we will be
ready to apply other tools.  ‘‘It will be up to the bank board to choose the instruments
that will be the most effective in achieving the desired result,
but also instruments that will represent the least possible risk
for achieving the inflation target, risk for the credibility of
the CNB as well as the risk for the whole economy.  ‘‘For me, it wouldn’t be about monetary-policy transmission
or quantitative effects. It would be about influencing the long-
end of the yield curve, because until now we have been focusing
mostly on the short end.  ‘‘If there is a risk of inflation being below the target,
or even a risk of deflation expectations, I can personally
imagine making a commitment to do everything that is needed to
return inflation expectations toward the inflation target.’’  -- Editors:  Jeffrey Donovan , Leon Mangasarian  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  