-- Danish Yields to Approach Zero in Mortgage Auctions, Nordea Says
-- B y   F r a n c e s   S c h w a r t z k o p f f
-- 2012-08-16T12:54:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/danish-yields-to-approach-zero-in-mortgage-auctions-nordea-says.html
Danish mortgage bond yields will be
close to zero in refinancing auctions beginning this month as
their AAA credit ratings draw investors intent on protecting
principal,  Nordea Bank AB (NDA) ’s mortgage unit said.  The yield on Nordea Kredit bonds issued to refinance one-
year adjustable loans will probably fall to 0.25 percent from
1.06 percent in October auctions, according to Lise Bergmann, an
economist at Nordea Kredit. Yields on three- and five-year bonds
will dip to 0.7 percent and 1.3 percent, from 1.6 percent and
2.1 percent, respectively.  “Our prognosis is close to what yields are now,” Bergmann
said in an interview. “Danish mortgage bonds, with their AAA
rating, appeal to many investors who are concerned about how
things will development and who demand to have AAA rated
investments. There are fewer AAA rated.”  Danish government and mortgage bond yields have plunged as
the Nordic country’s credit ratings and economic strength draw
investors willing to give up returns in a flight from  Europe ’s
debt crisis. Denmark pays less than  Germany  to borrow for 10
years, and the yield on its two-year notes is below zero.  Mortgage yields, which set rates for borrowers, could
follow, Bergmann said. While unlikely “one has to be careful in
the current conditions never to say never,” she said.  Denmark’s 2 percent government note due November 2014
yielded minus 0.21 in Copenhagen trading at 2:53 p.m. local
time. The yield on Nordea’s bullet bonds maturing October 2013
was 0.323. The security is rated AAA by the three major credit
rating companies.  About 100,000 Danish homeowners will be refinancing their
loans in the auctions, which continue into September, according
to Nordea. Fewer than 0.5 percent of Nordea customers are
refinancing adjustable-rate loans with fixed-rate mortgages,
suggesting they feel “safe” rates will stay low, Nordea said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Frances Schwartzkopff in Copenhagen at 
 fschwartzko1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tasneem Brogger at   tbrogger@bloomberg.net  