-- Dexus Seeks Partner for Office Unit as it Exits U.S Business
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-08-16T06:35:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/dexus-to-exit-u-s-in-2-years-sets-up-venture-with-korean-fund.html
Dexus Property Group (DXS) , Australia’s
biggest owner and manager of office properties, is seeking a
partner to acquire and develop offices as it sells its U.S.
industrial assets and draws its focus back to Australia.  “There’s never been a clear leader in the Australian
office market and we aspire to that space,” Darren Steinberg,
chief executive officer of Dexus, said in a telephone interview
after the company’s earnings today. “We’ll look to have a
large, strategic relationship in the office asset class over the
next 12 to 24 months.”  Dexus today announced a venture with the  National Pension
Service of Korea  to co-invest A$360 million ($377 million) in 13
industrial properties in Australia. The partnership could more
than double in the next five years and fund industrial property
developments, according to Sydney-based Dexus, which reported a
2.7 percent increase in  funds from operations  to A$367.8 million
in the year to June 30.  The manager said it expects to exit the U.S., where it owns
24 industrial properties and three land parcels, within two
years. The decision represents a move by Steinberg, who took
over as CEO in March, away from the company’s earlier plan to
boost its business on the U.S. West Coast.  Dexus  shares  slipped 2.5 percent to 97 Australian cents at
the close of trading in Sydney, paring this year’s advance to 17
percent. The benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index has risen 6.8 percent
in 2012.  Industrial Demand  The company, which in April agreed to sell 65 industrial
properties in central U.S. to affiliates of Blackstone Real
Estate Partners VII, will also divest its office building in
Auckland and six industrial properties in France and Germany,
Steinberg said.  Dexus sees strong demand for U.S. industrial assets and has
had “a number of inbound calls since we sold the central
portfolio,” Steinberg said.  Investment funds have been active buyers of industrial
properties in the U.S. this year. Buyers are drawn particularly
to assets in “hot-bed energy and high-tech markets” such as
Austin,  Texas , and  California ’s Silicon Valley, according to
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. Dexus’s properties are in  Dallas  and
San Antonio in Texas;  Los Angeles ;  Inland Empire  and San Diego
in California, and  Seattle .  Demand for industrial space in the U.S. is being driven by
logistics providers, food and beverage companies and retailers,
broker Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. said in a report this week.
Demand growth is expected to outpace supply in the next few
quarters, it said.  Prologis Inc. (PLD) , the world’s largest warehouse owner, may
sell about $800 million of U.S. properties by the end of 2012,
in addition to the $470 million of property it has already sold,
it said last month.  Korea Partnership  The  Korea  venture could also fund office developments in
future, Steinberg said. Dexus is seeking to have offices make up
between 80 percent and 90 percent of its balance sheet and
industrial properties the rest, Steinberg said. It will grow its
business by focusing primarily on offices and funds management
in  Australia , the company said.  Prime office values climbed 9.7 percent in the second
quarter from a year earlier in Sydney, which makes up almost
half of Dexus’s office assets, and office rents in the city rose
12.5 percent in the same period, according to an August report
by Jones Lang LaSalle.  Dexus may also create funds that will own retail
properties, Steinberg said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  