-- Diamond Cutter Gets Scoop on 880 Pounds of NYC Gelato
-- B y   L i l i   R o s b o c h
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/diamond-cutter-gets-scoop-on-880-pounds-of-nyc-gelato.html
Francesco Realmuto enjoyed the
security of his job as a gem cutter in  Manhattan ’s diamond
district. It was the long hours and tedium that wore on him.  So after 12 years he switched to another kind of ice,
opening  L’Arte del Gelato  in 2005.  It’s the best gelato I’ve had in New York -- and that’s
coming from a native Italian.  Realmuto and his partner, another diamond cutter named
Salvatore Potestio, now have gelaterias at Chelsea Market, in
the  West Village  and, from May through August, at Lincoln Center
Plaza.  I spoke with Realmuto at  Chelsea Market , where he gave me a
tour of L’Arte del Gelato’s underground laboratory. Like a good
Italian, he stopped every few steps to joke with friends and
fellow merchants.  Rosboch: Why did you change careers?  Realmuto: Cutting stones is a very lonely job. You’re
always there, seven days a week, even in the summer, without
ever seeing anyone.  All my diamonds were marked excellent. I had reached a
peak. And I had always been in love with food.  Rosboch: What pushed you toward gelato?  Realmuto: I was at a food show and saw a queue of 20 people
for gelato. Everywhere else it was empty. Two weeks later I flew
to  Italy  to learn for three months.  Rosboch: What were the early days like?  Six Hours  Realmuto: I worked on my own, doing everything. I would
wake up very early and by 11 would have 22 flavors out. It would
take about six hours to prepare.  Rosboch: What’s different about L’Arte del Gelato?  Realmuto: People start from money. I don’t; I start from
the product. I want to make the best product and don’t care how
much the chocolate or the pistachios costs.  I’ve never paid attention to numbers and have never made a
business plan. And after seven years this philosophy has proved
me right.  Rosboch: How long did it take for the business to become
profitable?  Realmuto: Four years. Now it’s profitable also because we
have very strategic shops, especially here at  Chelsea Market 
where people eat gelato even during the winter, forgetting that
it’s cold outside.  During the summer we sell 880 pounds of gelato a day, which
is a lot.  Rosboch: Have you done some advertising to get started?  No Zagat  Realmuto: Never. I don’t want  Zagat  to stop by for five
minutes and judge my years of work. I don’t find it right. I’ve
never spent anything on advertising and we’re first on  Yelp ,
have a critic’s pick on  nymag.com  and if you go on Google and
type “ gelato nyc ,” we’re the No. 1.  Rosboch: Do you think it would have been harder to succeed
with a business like yours in Italy?  Realmuto: Absolutely. In the U.S. there’s still much to do,
especially in  New York . In Italy we’re very advanced in terms of
food. There are concepts to bring here from Italy that would
certainly be successful.  I want to make a gelateria that is an institution. I want
to create a place with an open laboratory where I’ll put tables
to sit down and make gelato cups, the way it used to be in
Italy.  (Lili Rosboch writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own. This
interview was adapted from a longer conversation.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lili Rosboch in New York 
 erosboch2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 