-- Euro Gains on Speculation Leaders Acting to Solve Crisis
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2012-08-16T21:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/dollar-gains-versus-major-peers-on-u-s-recovery-signs-optimism.html
The euro strengthened against all of
its most-traded counterparts as German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
reiterated her commitment to working with the  European Central
Bank  to resolve the region’s financial turmoil.  The shared currency gained earlier after Medley Global
Advisors said  Spain  will request a bailout that will allow the
ECB to buy the nation’s debt to help reduce surging borrowing
costs. The greenback climbed for a fourth day against the yen as
Treasury yields at three-month highs boosted the allure of U.S.
dollar-denominated assets. The pound strengthened against most
of its major peers after U.K. retail sales unexpectedly
increased last month.  “Merkel’s comments pushed the euro near session highs
versus the dollar and the yen,”  Omer Esiner , chief market
analyst in  Washington  at the currency brokerage Commonwealth
Foreign Exchange Inc., said in a telephone interview.  The euro rose 0.5 percent to $1.2356 at 5 p.m.  New York 
time. The 17-nation shared currency added 1 percent to 98.04
yen. The dollar rose 0.5 percent to 79.33 yen after reaching
79.41 yen, the strongest level since July 12.  The  difference  between the yield on the 10-year U.S.
benchmark and a similar maturity Japanese security widened to
100 basis points yesterday, the most since May 10. It was at 97
basis points today. The yield on the 10-year Treasury note
touched 1.86 percent, the highest since May 11.  The dollar is poised to test resistance at 79.80 yen and
could reach 80.50 to 80.60, Cilline Bain, a London-based
technical analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, wrote today in a
note to clients.  ‘In Line’  Spain will apply for aid at a meeting of finance ministers
and central bank governors next month, allowing the ECB to buy
Spanish government debt in the secondary market once approval is
won, according to a Medley report Bloomberg News obtained.
Medley officials weren’t immediately available to comment.  The report “reminded everybody that in their view the
Spaniards will eventually ask for a bailout, and with a bailout
will likely come some ECB buying, which is likely to smack bond
yields,”  Thomas Molloy , chief dealer at FX Solutions LLC, an
online currency-trading company in Saddle River, New Jersey,
said in a telephone interview.  Merkel said the European Central Bank’s insistence on
conditionality in return for help to lower borrowing costs in
indebted countries matches  Germany ’s priorities to end the
crisis in the euro region.  “The ECB is completely in line with what we’ve said all
along,” Merkel told reporters in Ottawa today at a joint press
conference with Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper .  Kiwi, Pound  The  New Zealand Dollar  advanced against most of its major
counterparts as rallying commodities supported the outlook for
exports. The so-called kiwi appreciated 0.4 percent to 81.05
U.S. cents. It rose 0.9 percent to 64.30 yen.  Auckland-based Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s
largest dairy exporter, said whole-milk powder prices reached a
two-month high. since July 27. The  Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB
Index (CRY)  of raw materials rose for a third day, gaining 0.3
percent.  The British pound climbed as July’s increase in U.K. retail
sales added to evidence that the economic slump was less
pronounced than previously estimated.  Sterling fell 0.2 percent to 78.54 pence per euro after
reaching 78.13 pence, the strongest level since July 31. The
pound gained 0.3 percent to $1.5733. It weakened as much as 0.3
percent before the data.  Economic Data  The dollar climbed earlier as building permits jumped to
the highest level in four years and jobless claims held steady,
reducing speculation the  Federal Reserve  will extend stimulus
next month.  “None of the data has been such that it would really have
people change their outlook for the  U.S. economy  or for that
matter what the Fed could do,” said Brian Kim, a currency
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in  Stamford 
Connecticut.  The U.S. central bank has held its target for overnight
lending in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008 and plans
to keep it there at least through late 2014 to stimulate the
world’s biggest economy. The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of
mortgage and Treasury debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of
quantitative easing, also known as QE1 and QE2.  Dallas Fed President  Richard Fisher  said in a CNBC
interview yesterday that the U.S. economy probably won’t lapse
into recession in 2013 and that new stimulus wouldn’t spur
growth.  Treasuries Buying  The yen has declined against the dollar as higher yields in
the U.S. prompted Japanese investors to buy assets abroad.  Investors in Japan bought $10.4 billion of Treasuries in
June, bringing their purchases for 2012 to $61.3 billion and
total holdings of the debt to $1.1193 trillion, Treasury data
released yesterday show.  That compares with  China ’s addition of $300 million to its
portfolio of U.S. government securities for the month, raising
its purchases this year to $12.4 billion and its stake in
Treasuries to $1.1643 trillion. Should both countries continue
buying at their respective paces through 2012,  Japan  will end
the year with more Treasuries.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  