-- Drought Affects 87% of Corn as Dryness Eases, U.S. Says
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-16T16:56:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/drought-affects-87-of-corn-as-dryness-eases-u-s-says.html
Drought affected 87 percent of U.S.
corn, 85 percent of soybeans, 63 percent of hay and 72 percent
of cattle through last week, according to the  National Climatic
Data Center .  The drought in the lower 48 states eased last week to 61.8
percent from 62.5 percent, with improvement in all categories of
dryness except for the worst, the  U.S. Drought Monitor  reported.  The most severe level of drought, called exceptional,
expanded to 6.3 percent of the contiguous U.S. from 4.2 percent
the previous period. The monitor’s report is for the week ended
Aug. 14.  “The U.S. Drought Monitor week saw a few notable
improvements and some serious degradation,” Michael Brewer of
the  data center  in Asheville,  North Carolina , wrote in an
analysis. “One storm dumped much-needed rain through the
Midwest, improving drought conditions there from  Iowa  through
 Ohio . Other areas, such as the Southern and Central Plains, were
not as lucky and continued to dry out.”  The two worst categories of drought cover more than half of
corn and soybean growing areas, he said.  Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at $76.5 billion in
2011, followed by soybeans at $35.8 billion, government data
show. Wheat is the fourth-largest at $14.4 billion, behind hay.  Rain Outlook  For the coming week, most of the Midwest and northern Great
Plains are expected to have normal or below-normal rainfall,
Brewer said.  There may be some improvement to drought conditions across
the northern Midwest from Minnesota and parts of Iowa east to
Ohio, according to the Seasonal Drought Outlook projecting
conditions through November 30. The outlook was released by the
 National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration  during a
conference call with reporters.  The outlook predicts the drought will persist through much
of the central Great Plains to  Texas , including Nebraska,
southern Iowa,  Missouri  and  Kansas .  “Things are no longer going downhill as fast as they
were,” said Ed O’Lenic, seasonal forecaster with the  U.S.
Climate Prediction Center  in  Camp Springs ,  Maryland .  Time is running out to salvage this year’s corn crop. In a
week or two, corn will beyond the point where any additional
rain will be able to help or undo damage from the drought, said
Jim Angel, the Illinois state climatologist.  Soybean Chances  “Soybeans have another two or three weeks when they could
benefit from cooler temperatures and rainfall,” Angel said on
the conference call.  Winter wheat crops will need rain in September and October
to recharge moisture levels in the top few inches of soil so
that the seeds can germinate, he said.  In the U.S. as a whole, including Puerto Rico, some
category of drought covered 51.7 percent of the land as of Aug.
14, an improvement from last week’s figure of 52.3 percent,
according to the Monitor in Lincoln,  Nebraska .  The amount of land suffering under the worst category
increased to 5.2 percent from 3.5 percent last week.  Yesterday, the  Palmer Drought Index  reported drought
covered 57.2 percent of the contiguous 48 states in July, the
worst since December 1956, when 57.6 percent of the country was
dry. The Palmer records, which date to 1895, are used to make
comparisons to drought years before 2000.  The Drought Monitor is a partnership including the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the Drought Mitigation
Center at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and the Agriculture
Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  