-- Heart Patients With St. Jude’s Riata Require Screening
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-08-16T20:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/heart-patients-with-st-jude-s-riata-require-screening.html
Patients with  St. Jude Medical
Inc. (STJ) ’s Riata wires that connect life-saving defibrillators to
the heart should get X-rays or other imaging tests to detect
potential defects, U.S. regulators said.  St. Jude, the third-largest maker of heart rhythm devices,
stopped selling Riata wires in 2010 and recalled them a year
later amid reports they may break through the insulation used to
coat the cables, called leads. The defect, found in as many as 1
in 4 of larger Riata wires, can lead to inappropriate shocks
from a defibrillator or other devices used to regulate the
heart. In some cases, the device may fail to provide a life-
saving jolt of electricity when a patient’s heart stops.  “In the vast majority of patients, this is a life-saving
therapy,” Bram Zuckerman, director of the  Food and Drug
Administration ’s cardiovascular device division, said in a
telephone interview. “This is an attempt by the agency to fully
inform patients and practitioners of what the available data say
so they can work together to provide optimum care for patients
with these leads.”  The FDA is requiring the  St. Paul , Minnesota-based company
to conduct three-year studies on the Riata and Riata ST leads to
pinpoint the amount of time it takes for the wires to breach the
insulation and for the device to subsequently fail. The agency
also has asked for similar studies on St. Jude’s newer Durata
and Riata ST Optim devices, which use a sturdier type of
insulation, to determine their long-term safety.  St. Jude fell 4.4 percent to $36.87 at the close in  New
York , the biggest decline in two months. The shares have dropped
15 percent in the past 12 months.  Future Action  The devices shouldn’t be routinely removed from patients,
even if they have broken through the coating, the agency said.
Instead, tests should be run to determine if the wires still are
working properly. Doctors and patients need to decide together
the best course of action for those patients who devices have
completely failed, since there are risks associated with the
surgery required to remove the leads.  While St. Jude stopped selling the first Riata devices in
2010, there are about 79,000 implanted in American patients, the
company has said. The number of patients with defective devices
has been uncertain because routine imaging wasn’t recommended,
the flaws are hard to detect with existing tests and failure may
not occur until an electric jolt is needed.  St. Jude recognizes the FDA’s request for screening of all
patients with Riata will lead to a better understanding about
how often the wires protrude from the insulation, said Amy Jo Meyer, a company spokeswoman, in an e-mail statement. St. Jude
has completed the first phase of a study looking at Riata’s
performance and has the largest surveillance registries in the
industry to monitor its products over time, she said.  More Discussion  “We welcome a continuing discussion with the FDA and
physicians with respect to deciding how to manage individual
patients,” she said. “Our goal is to provide physicians timely
and relevant clinical data to best support their patient
management decisions.”  The agency is trying to collect enough information to
determine how a lead may progress from a “perfect” new device
to one that may fail, said Mitchell Shein, branch chief for
pacing, defibrillation and leads at the FDA. The timeline to an
electrical failure is critical and better understanding the
progression is in the interest of public health, he said.  The FDA will continue to monitor safety information
provided to the agency and look for signs of worsening with
Riata, Durata and other leads, Shein said in a telephone
interview. The agency doesn’t know enough about the long-term
performance of Durata and St. Jude’s newer leads, which are
similar to the design of Riata, he said.  “Until we have a level of confidence in the longer-term
performance, we think it’s appropriate to evaluate them
prospectively,” Shein said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  