-- Ecuador Set to Announce Assange Decision Amid Strains With U.K.
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l ,   R o b e r t   H u t t o n   a n d   K i t t y   D o n a l d s o n
-- 2012-08-16T10:44:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/ecuador-says-u-k-threatens-embassy-assault-to-seize-assange.html
Ecuador ’s President  Rafael Correa 
will announce today whether his country will give asylum to
WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, who’s taken refuge in its
embassy in  London  to avoid extradition to Sweden.  Correa will make the announcement at 7 a.m. in Quito, a
spokesman for the Ecuadorean Embassy in London, who declined to
be named in line with official practice, said today. Ecuador
accused the British Foreign Office yesterday of threatening to
“assault” the mission in its efforts to hand over Assange.  The U.K. “directly threatens the government of Ecuador to
take actions to arrest Mr. Julian Assange in the installations
of the embassy of Ecuador in London,” Ecuador’s Foreign
Minister Ricardo Patino told reporters in  Quito . Any forced
entry is “inadmissible” and would be considered a “hostile
and unfriendly act.”  Assange sought refuge in the embassy on June 19 after
exhausting options in U.K. courts to avert extradition to
Sweden, where he faces questioning on allegations of rape and
sexual molestation. The 41-year-old Australian, first arrested
in London in December 2010, breached the terms of his bail by
staying at the Ecuadorean Embassy.  According to a note from the Foreign Office handed to the
Ecuadorean Foreign Ministry yesterday, the U.K. considers the
continued use of embassy premises to shelter Assange to be
“incompatible” with international diplomatic rules.  ‘Take Action’  “You should be aware that there is a legal basis in the
U.K. -- the Diplomatic and Consular Premises Act -- which would
allow us to take action to arrest Mr. Assange in the current
premises of the embassy,” the Foreign Office said in the note.
“We very much hope not to get this point, but if you cannot
resolve the issue of Mr. Assange’s presence on your premises,
this route is open to us.”  Britain would prefer to reach an amicable agreement with
Ecuador, the Foreign Office said.  “The U.K. has a legal obligation to extradite Mr. Assange
to  Sweden  to face questioning over allegations of sexual
offenses and we remain determined to fulfill this obligation,”
the ministry said in a statement. “We are still committed to
reaching a mutually acceptable solution.”  The claims against Assange became public around the same
time he posted classified U.S. cables on the WikiLeaks website.
Assange argues Sweden fabricated the arrest warrant to assist
the U.S. in punishing him for the breach.  Patino said Ecuador will call an emergency session of the
 Organization of American States  and the Union of South American
Nations to discuss the “threat” against its sovereignty by the
U.K.  Relations between the U.S. and Ecuador have also been
strained. The two nations have sparred over Correa’s attempts to
imprison journalists for publishing remarks he found offensive.
In April, President  Barack Obama  named Ecuador as an example of
nations that have implemented measures restricting free speech.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Kitty Donaldson in London at 
 kdonaldson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net ;
Eddie Buckle at 
 ebuckle@bloomberg.net  