-- Ecuador Grants Assange Asylum Setting Up Standoff With U.K.
-- B y   N a t h a n   G i l l
-- 2012-08-17T01:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/ecuador-grants-wikileaks-julian-assange-asylum-patino-says-1-.html
Ecuador  granted WikiLeaks founder
Julian Assange asylum yesterday, setting up a confrontation with
the U.K. that said it won’t allow him to leave the country after
two months in the South American nation’s  London  embassy.  Assange, 41, sought asylum at the diplomatic building on
June 19 after exhausting options in U.K. courts to avert
extradition to  Sweden , where the Australian citizen faces
questioning on allegations of rape and sexual molestation.  “Ecuador’s government, faithful to its tradition of
protecting those who seek protection in its territory, has
decided to grant diplomatic asylum,” Foreign Minister Ricardo Patino told reporters in  Quito  yesterday. The evidence “backs
up Julian Assange’s fears that he is a victim of political
persecution as a result of his determined defense for freedom of
expression and a free press.”  The U.K. government said yesterday it has a “binding
obligation” to extradite Assange to Sweden and intends to
fulfill it. It said it doesn’t recognize the concept of
“diplomatic asylum” and won’t grant safe passage out of
Britain, setting up a legal showdown if Assange steps outside
the embassy door.  “We are disappointed by the statement from Ecuador’s
foreign minister,” the Foreign Office in London said in a
statement. “The British authorities are under a binding
obligation to extradite him to Sweden. We shall carry out that
obligation.”  ‘Assault’ Threat  Ecuador’s government on Aug. 15 accused the U.K. of
threatening to “assault” its embassy in London to arrest
Assange. The U.K. sent a letter to the embassy warning that it
would enter the compound if Assange isn’t handed over to local
authorities, Patino said.  While the U.K. won’t storm the embassy, “the harboring of
criminals” by foreign missions is not “a permitted function
under the Vienna Convention,” U.K. Foreign Secretary  William Hague  said yesterday.  “It is important to understand that this is not about Mr.
Assange’s activities at WikiLeaks or the attitude of the  United
States of America ,” Hague said. “He is wanted in Sweden to
answer allegations of serious sexual offenses. We will not allow
Mr. Assange safe passage out of the U.K., nor is there any legal
basis for us to do so.”  Cheering Crowd  A crowd of several hundred Assange supporters, Occupy
protesters in masks, journalists and police officers yesterday
surrounded the embassy, located close to the Harrods department
store in London’s Knightsbridge district. The group broke into
chants such as “hands off Ecuador” and “freedom fighter”
before the asylum announcement was made. A police officer there
said three people were arrested for public disorder offenses.  The Australian government will continue to offer Assange
consular assistance, the office of Foreign Minister Bob Carr
said in an e-mailed statement today. “The asylum decision
itself is a matter between Mr. Assange and the governments of
Ecuador and the U.K.,” it said.  Assange, first arrested in London in December 2010,
breached the terms of his bail by staying at the embassy and may
be arrested again if he steps outside the building, the
 Metropolitan Police Service  said in June.  The U.K. Court of Appeal ruled in November that he should
return to Sweden to face the sexual molestation allegations. He
hasn’t been charged with a crime.  As the standoff begins, Ecuador must now consider how it
plans to get Assange from its embassy to the airport, said
Douglas McNabb, senior principal at international criminal
defense law firm McNabb Associates PC. It’s unclear legally
whether he can remain under diplomatic protection when he leaves
the compound, he said.  Airport Dash  “I suspect Ecuador would have their own jet that would be
able to take him from probably Heathrow into Quito, but how do
they get him from the embassy to the airport?” McNabb said in a
telephone interview from Houston.  Both nations face “intense” negotiations, said Boston
University School of Law Professor Robert Sloane. International
treaties, to which both the U.K. and Ecuador are signatories,
require the U.K. to respect the South American nation’s embassy
unless Britain determines Ecuador is interfering with its
internal affairs, he said.  “The only remedy for a violation of these obligations with
respect to Mr. Assange would be for the  United Kingdom  to
declare particular diplomatic personnel persona non grata,
requiring them to depart the country,” Sloane said in an e-
mailed statement. “In theory, the United Kingdom could also
break off diplomatic relations with Ecuador altogether and order
its embassy privileges accordingly terminated, but in reality
that is almost unthinkable.”  Allegations  Sweden’s Director of Public Prosecution, Marianne Ny,
declined to comment on the matter “as long as it is handled by
British authorities,” according to a statement on the DPP’s
 website . “The fact that Julian Assange has been granted asylum
in Ecuador does not affect the Swedish criminal investigation.”  The two women who accused Assange of sexual misconduct are
both supporters of WikiLeaks and let Assange stay at their homes
during a speaking tour in Sweden in 2010. The allegations became
public around the same time he released U.S. diplomatic secrets
through his WikiLeaks website. Assange requested asylum to avoid
what he says are U.S. efforts to punish him for leaking the
cables on the Internet.  The U.K. has the power, under the 1987 Diplomatic and
Consular Premises Act, to review the diplomatic status of an
embassy, a spokesman for the Foreign Office, who declined to be
named in line with government practice, said yesterday. The U.K.
would prefer to reach an agreement with Ecuador, he said.  The  Crown Prosecution Service  declined to comment
yesterday. Spokesmen at the Metropolitan Police Service were
unavailable to comment.  ‘Extraordinary Stand’  Alex Carlile, an opposition Liberal Democrat lawmaker in
Parliament’s upper House of Lords and a practicing lawyer,
questioned the legal arguments for granting Assange asylum,
saying there was “no sound basis” for Ecuador’s decision.  “The moment Mr. Assange leaves, he will be arrested and he
will be deported to Sweden,” Carlile said on Sky News
television yesterday. “He knows that, the Ecuadoreans know
that. This is a difficult situation, but it is absolutely clear
that the Ecuadoreans have no sound basis for the extraordinary
stand they have taken.”  Ecuador is concerned Assange may eventually be extradited
to the U.S. where he wouldn’t receive a fair trial and faces
life in prison or execution for espionage and treason, said
Patino, who also led Ecuador’s efforts to block international
action against  Libya ’s former ruler Muammar Qaddafi and Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad.  Ecuadorean President  Rafael Correa , an ally of Iranian
President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad , last year expelled the U.S.
ambassador to Quito, Heather Hodges, over allegations she made
in a classified diplomatic cable, published by WikiLeaks, that
he knowingly appointed a corrupt police chief.  The two nations have also sparred over Correa’s attempts to
imprison journalists for publishing remarks he found offensive.
In April, President  Barack Obama  named Ecuador as an example of
nations that have implemented measures restricting free speech.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nathan Gill in Quito at 
 ngill4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  