-- Elektra Rallies as Stock Remains on IPC Index: Mexico City Mover
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n ,   P a t r i c i a   L a y a   a n d   B r e n d a n   C a s e
-- 2012-08-16T20:43:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/elektra-rises-as-stock-stays-on-ipc-mexico-city-mover-correct-.html
Grupo Elektra SA, the retail and
banking company controlled by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas ,
rallied the most in a month after Mexico’s stock-exchange
operator said the shares will remain on the benchmark IPC index.  Elektra’s weight on the index will fall to 2.04 percent
from 2.09 percent beginning Sept. 3,  Bolsa Mexicana (BOLSAA)  de Valores
SAB said yesterday in a filing. Elektra was able to retain its
place on the gauge after obtaining a court injunction forcing
the stock exchange to use an older methodology to determine its
weighting. The Bolsa didn’t say whether Elektra would have
remained on the index under the new methodology, which accounts
for shares that are restricted by derivative contracts.  Shares rose 4.7 percent to 646.31 pesos at the close of
trading, the biggest one-day advance since July 17.  “We see a very strong growth potential for Elektra,” Leon Cabrera, a trader at CI Casa de Bolsa, said in a telephone
interview from  Mexico  City. The brokerage has a price target of
850 pesos for the shares.  Salinas’s company is suing the Bolsa for unspecified
damages after the exchange operator’s announcement of a new
methodology on April 11 led to a drop of as much as 68 percent
in Elektra shares. Investors including Van Eck Associates and
Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA said then that the new rules had cast
doubt on Elektra’s ability to remain on the index.  Elektra had derivative contracts tied to its stock price
representing about 14 percent of its shares as of June 19, down
from about 23 percent at the end of 2010. Salinas and his family
controlled 70.5 percent of shares at the end of last year.  Share Performance  The Bolsa’s new rules specify that to be included in the
IPC, a company must have 12 percent of its outstanding shares
freely traded, not held by a controlling shareholder or withheld
from trading because they are being held as a hedge in a
derivative contract.  Dan McCosh, an Elektra spokesman, declined to comment.  Elektra shares are down 49 percent from their closing price
April 11, having recovered from a low of 408.79 pesos June 18.  Of the remaining 31 stocks on the index, only three will
increase their weighting:  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB,  Wal-Mart de Mexico
SAB  and the Bolsa itself. Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB’s
weight will decline the most, down 35 percent to 0.61 percent,
according to yesterday’s filing and to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Genomma Lab Internacional SAB (LABB) ’s weight will be little
changed at 0.99 percent.  The Bolsa did apply its new methodology to the other stocks
in the IPC. Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB jumped 12 percent to a
record high and  Coca-Cola Femsa (KOF)  SAB rose 5.7 percent after the
Bolsa announced they would join the benchmark IPC index.
Industrias CH SAB and Alpek SAB, who are also joining, both
posted gains.  Of the companies leaving the index, Organizacion Soriana
SAB was the hardest-hit, falling 8.4 percent today, the most
since February 2009.  Consorcio Ara (ARA*)  SAB, Controladora Comercial
Mexicana SAB and Axtel SAB will also leave the index.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Laya in  New York  at 
 playa2@bloomberg.net ;
Brendan Case in Mexico City at 
 bcase4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  