-- Elektra Remains on Mexico IPC Index on Injunction
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-08-16T17:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/elektra-remains-on-mexico-ipc-index-as-injunction-blocks-changes.html
(Corrects to show Genomma Lab weight is little changed.)  Grupo Elektra SA, the Mexican retail
and banking company controlled by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas ,
will remain on the benchmark IPC index after obtaining a court
injunction forcing the stock exchange to use an older
methodology to determine its weighting.  Elektra’s weight on the index will decline to 2.04 percent
from 2.09 percent when changes are adopted Sept. 3, stock
exchange operator  Bolsa Mexicana (BOLSAA)  de Valores SAB said yesterday
in a filing. The Bolsa didn’t say whether Elektra would have
remained on the index under the new methodology, which accounts
for shares that are restricted by derivative contracts.  Salinas’s company is suing the Bolsa for unspecified
damages after the exchange operator’s announcement of a new
methodology on April 11 led to a drop of as much as 68 percent
in Elektra shares. Investors including Van Eck Associates and
Intercam Casa de Bolsa SA said then that the new rules had cast
doubt on Elektra’s ability to remain on the index.  Elektra had derivative contracts tied to its stock price
representing about 14 percent of its shares as of June 19, down
from about 23 percent at the end of 2010. Salinas and his family
controlled 70.5 percent of Elektra’s shares at the end of last
year.  The Bolsa’s new rules specify that to be included in the
IPC, a company must have 12 percent of its outstanding shares
freely traded, not held by a controlling shareholder or withheld
from trading because they are being held as a hedge in a
derivative contract.  Dan McCosh, an Elektra spokesman, declined to comment.  Share Performance  Elektra rose 0.3 percent to 617.31 pesos yesterday in
Mexico City before the IPC changes were announced. The shares
are down 51 percent from their closing price on April 11, having
recovered from a low of 408.79 pesos on June 18.  The Bolsa did apply its new methodology to the other stocks
in the IPC.  Consorcio Ara (ARA*)  SAB, Controladora Comercial Mexicana
SAB, Axtel SAB and Organizacion Soriana SAB will leave the
index, while Grupo Financiero Inbursa SAB, Alpek SAB,  Industrias
CH (ICHB)  SAB and  Coca-Cola Femsa (KOF)  SAB will join, the Bolsa said.  Of the remaining 31 stocks on the index, only three will
increase their weighting:  America Movil (AMXL)  SAB,  Wal-Mart de Mexico
SAB  and the Bolsa itself.  Genomma Lab Internacional SAB’s (LABB)  weight will be little
changed at 0.99 percent, Grupo Aeroportuario del Pacifico SAB,
which will decline 35 percent to 0.61 percent, according to
today’s filing and to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  