-- Helen Gurley Brown and the Economics of Erotic Capital
-- B y   M i c k i   M c G e e
-- 2012-08-16T15:13:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/helen-gurley-brown-and-the-economics-of-erotic-capital.html
Helen Gurley Brown, who died
this week at 90, embodied countless contradictions. In her
first book, “Sex and the Single Girl” (1962), Brown
scandalized the nation by arguing that single women ought
to have lives of sexual fulfillment rather than of spinster
desperation. Notably, she waited to do this until she had
safely nabbed her own Mr. Right, and then wrote the book
only at his urging.  She advised women to use their feminine wiles in the
work place (though she always contended that sleeping your
way to the top was all but impossible). She steered the
failing Hearst publication Cosmopolitan far into the black,
and into pop culture history, by eliminating all traces of
cosmopolitanism and recasting the magazine as a guidebook
for what became known as the “Cosmo girl.”  Her success -- and that of her magazine -- resulted
both from a deep understanding of bare economic necessity
and from the skilled deployment of what the sociologist
Catherine Hakim has called “erotic capital.”  Economic Success  Brown’s style of fishnet feminism caught the public
imagination in the early 1960s, well before the stories of
the bra-burning variety had even hit the newsstands. And
while other pioneers of American feminism, such as Betty Friedan, sought self-fulfillment and social change,
individual economic success was the first order of business
for Brown.  Circumstances had conspired to render the young Helen
Gurley poor. Her father died when she was 10, her mother
sank into depression and her sister was stricken with
polio. For a girl from  Arkansas  transplanted to  Los
Angeles , the specter of rural white trash nipped at her
heels even as her mother and sister leaned on her for
support. And for a just-barely college-educated single girl
in the 1940s, economic opportunities were limited: One
could trade in secretarial services or sexual favors.  Brown, by her own account, engaged in a bit of both.
Her autobiography, “I’m Wild Again,” recounts her days not
only in the secretarial pool on the way to her position as
an advertising writer, but also her time as a mistress to
an unnamed Hollywood heavy hitter.  For women of the working class, “workin’ it” has long
been a route to economic security. Brown’s hard-won (that
is, arduously constructed) sex appeal got her that and
more: A decades-long marriage to film producer  David Brown ,
bestselling books, the editorial helm of a Hearst
publication and a Central Park West penthouse.  While Brown was working her way up and out of the
secretarial pool, half a world away the French philosopher
Simone de Beauvoir was writing “The Second Sex,” which
famously noted that “one is not born a woman, one becomes
one,” and that “women’s freedom begins with their pocket
book.”  Brown would have agreed on both counts: Femininity was
artifice, and money mattered.  Indeed, she embodied these principles, and turned them
into a formula for the Cosmo girls who would follow her
monthly missives. Brown was utterly self-made: nipped,
tucked, exercised, dieted and coiffed into a made-up and
made-over version of feminine masquerade. She parlayed it
into an empire, working out the details of her can-do,
chin-up, bust-out, and just-enough-brains pragmatism in the
pages of her  magazine : “Land your man, ace your job and
look your sexiest ever,” was the classic mantra.  Doing It All  By 1982, Brown had compiled it all in a second
bestseller. In “Having It All,” she suggested that women
like herself, “who are not prepossessing, not pretty, don’t
have a particularly high I.Q., a decent education, good
family background or other noticeable assets can come a
long way in life if they apply themselves.” For Brown, work
on the self was the way to wealth, and work she did. The
key to having it all was doing it all.  She urged her readers to work with what they’ve got,
and especially to maximize their erotic capital -- the
beauty, sex appeal, social grace, vivaciousness and sexual
competence that have long operated as assets for women (or
liabilities for those who lack them). More Moll Flanders
than Madame Bovary, Brown didn’t shy from the bare
economics of erotic capital: For people who have only their
labor and their bodies to sell, trading on both makes for a
far more certain return.  Brown’s Manolo Blahnik version of bootstrapping found
an eager audience among working women who were ready to
embrace her advice on sex (yes, please), work (go the extra
mile), men (so easy to handle), children (if you must), and
money (get it, keep it, grow it). Under her editorship,
Cosmopolitan became the guidebook for working women who
aimed to amp up their erotic capital in a world that had
often dismissed them as bimbos at best.  Brown often wrote that she planned on being buried in
her favorite Emilio Pucci shift. If that wasn’t feasible,
she said she would settle for a Chanel suit. I hope she
wound up in the Chanel. It seems fitting: She and  Coco Chanel , the founder of the brand, each started out as kept
women and wound up at the helm of lifestyle empires.  In the process they put to rest the specter of the
lonely spinster, and revamped our ideas of modern
womanhood.  (Micki McGee is the author of “Self-Help, Inc:
Makeover Culture in American Life.” She teaches in the
department of sociology and anthropology at  Fordham
University . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more Echoes columns  online .  To contact the writer of this post: Micki McGee at
 mmcgee@fordham.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this post: Timothy
Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 