-- Telenor Says VimpelCom Owners’ Dispute Ended: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-08-16T15:47:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/telenor-says-vimpelcom-s-owners-dispute-ended-russia-overnight.html
Telenor ASA (TEL) , the Nordic countries’
biggest phone operator, said a dispute with Russian regulators
about ownership of  VimpelCom Ltd. (VIP)  will end after billionaire
Mikhail Fridman’s Altimo boosted its stake in the world’s sixth-
biggest mobile phone company.  VimpelCom’s American depositary receipts jumped 8.7 percent
to $10.20 in  New York  yesterday, the highest level since May 1,
after Altimo,  Alfa Group ’s telecommunications division, said it
raised its stake in VimpelCom to 40.5 percent of the  voting
rights  by purchasing 305 million shares from Egyptian
billionaire Naquib Sawiris’s Weather Investments II. The
 Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian
companies in New York climbed to a three-month high.  Telenor said today it’s acquiring more shares from Sawiris,
increasing its stake to almost 43 percent from 39.5 percent.
Russia’s Anti-Monopoly Service, known as FAS, is disputing the
Nordic company’s right to raise its stake after it bought 11.3
percent of VimpelCom from Weather Investments in February.  “We believe this transaction will necessarily put an end
to the FAS lawsuit as it shows clearly that it is completely
groundless,”  Dag Melgaard , an Oslo-based spokesman for Telenor,
said by e-mail yesterday, commenting on Altimo’s deal.  A Moscow court banned Amsterdam-based VimpelCom’s Russian
unit from paying dividends on 2011 profits because of FAS’s
dispute. VimpelCom has a “solid” cash position for operating
requirements even without the dividends, Chief Financial Officer
Henk van Dalen said yesterday on a conference call.  Ekaterina Zubova, an FAS spokeswoman in Moscow, declined by
phone to comment on whether Altimo’s acquisition will end the
dispute when contacted by Bloomberg today. Altimo yesterday said
it withdrew claims that Weather and Telenor violated agreements
by failing to make a mandatory tender offer for VimpelCom
shares.  Office of Natalya Timakova, Prime Minister  Dmitry
Medvedev ’s press secretary, declined to comment whether
authorities, including the government’s Commission for Foreign
Investments which initiated proceedings against Telenor, will
agree to end the dispute after Altimo dropped its claims against
Telenor. Person who answered the phone declined to give her name
and said Timakova was on vacation.  ‘Removes Uncertainty’  “The news is quite positive for VimpelCom,” Simon Mandel,
director of emerging Europe equity sales at Auerbach Grayson &
Co. in New York, said by e-mail. “It removes a great deal of
uncertainty surrounding Weather’s stake and simplifies the
shareholder structure of the company.”  Bobby Leach , the Amsterdam-based communications director
for VimpelCom, declined to comment on Altimo’s share
acquisition.  Telenor is buying 71 million preferred shares for $113.6
million from Sawiris, raising its stake to almost 43 percent
from 39.5 percent, Melgaard said today. The deal is expected to
close before October, he said, declining to comment on whether
Telenor will buy or sell VimpelCom stock.  Equal Stakes  Altimo is seeking to further increase its VimpelCom stake
after the $3.6 billion acquisition from Weather and is looking
to buy shares from Telenor, Altimo’s Vice President Evgeny Dumalkin said in a phone interview from Moscow yesterday. He
said he expected Telenor to use the option to buy Sawiris’s
shares.  “We are calling on Telenor to sell some of its shares to
even our stakes in the company,” Dumalkin said. “We believe
that Russian and foreign shareholder must have equal stakes in
VimpelCom. It’s our strategic vision and we call on Telenor to
share such approach.”  The Bloomberg Russia-US Equity Index rose 0.5 percent to
94.89. The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded
exchange-traded fund that holds Russian shares, dropped 0.4
percent to $27.76. The RTS Volatility Index slumped 2.1 percent
to 29.77.  Oil, Russia’s biggest export earner, climbed to a three-
month high in New York yesterday after U.S. stockpiles fell and
 Saudi Arabia  called on its citizens to leave Lebanon, adding to
tension in the  Middle East . Industrial production in the U.S.
increased in July.  RTS stock-index futures  increased 0.6 percent
to 143,050.  “The futures are responding to the slightly positive tone
in U.S. market and higher oil,”  Alec Young , a global equity
strategist at S&P Capital IQ, said by phone yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in New York at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  