-- Tencent Rises as Online Ads Lift Profit: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-08-16T10:44:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/tencent-rises-as-online-ads-games-lift-profit-hong-kong-mover.html
Tencent Holdings Ltd. (700)  rose the most
in more than eight months in  Hong Kong  trading after China’s
biggest  Internet company  posted a 32 percent gain in profit on
higher online advertising and games revenue.  Tencent rose 6.4 percent to close at HK$244.60, the most
since Dec. 1. The stock has added 57 percent this year making it
the  second-biggest gainer  on the benchmark  Hang Seng Index. (HSI)   The Internet company added social-networking users to sites
including Qzone and Pengyou, helping boost  Web advertising sales 
even as economic growth in China slowed. Chief Executive Officer
Pony Ma is increasing spending on e-commerce operations to
challenge local industry leader Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. and
pare reliance on online games.  “The company has outperformed the rest of the advertising
market, and is selling more ads on its online video and social
networking sites,” said Dundas Deng, who rates Tencent buy at
Guotai Junan Securities in Shenzhen. “The company did well in
online games.”  Second-quarter  net income  climbed to 3.1 billion  yuan  ($487
million) from 2.35 billion yuan a year earlier, Tencent said in
a statement yesterday. That compares with the 3.08 billion-yuan
average of nine analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Sales
rose 56 percent to 10.5 billion yuan.  Social Networks  “We achieved strong revenue growth on our social networks
during the quarter,” Tencent said.  Online games sales rose 53 percent to 5.57 billion yuan in
the second-quarter, Tencent said. Internet advertising revenue
increased 72 percent to 880 million yuan, the Shenzhen-based
company said.  Tencent plans to accelerate the expansion of its online
games business overseas, which at present account for a
“small” proportion of game revenue, President Martin Lau said.  “It’s an area we will devote more resources to,” Lau said
in a conference call with analysts yesterday, without providing
details. Overseas game revenue has increase “quite a bit” in
the past few quarters, he said.  NetEase Inc. (NTES) , China’s second-biggest online games company,
posted a 13 percent increase in second-quarter profit to 875.3
million yuan, as sales rose 11 percent to 2 billion yuan, it
said in a statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in Hong Kong at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  