-- English Lessons at 85 Help Seniors Limit Japan Unemployment
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2012-08-17T08:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/english-lessons-at-85-help-seniors-hold-down-japan-unemployment.html
Keiko Awaya wasn’t allowed to major
in English at college because her nation was at war with the U.S.
at the time. Now 85, her readiness to use savings to fulfill a
decades-delayed dream is part of a wave of spending by the
elderly that’s aiding the Japanese economy.  “At my age, I thought it was OK to spend that much money
because I don’t have many years to go,” said Awaya, who has
paid 1.3 million yen ($16,000) each for two month-long study-
abroad packages offered by Tokyo-based Ikiiki Co., one to  Boston 
and another to England. To keep herself fit for overseas trips,
Awaya goes to a gym twice a week.  Ikiiki is part of an endeavor to unlock an estimated 900
trillion yen in savings held by Japanese over the age of 60,
through rekindling the zest for spending that today’s retirees
knew in the 1980s  bubble years . From gaming arcades with tatami-
bench tea areas to fitness gyms with stretching classes, the
efforts go beyond nursing care, and may help  Japan  keep full
employment even as manufacturing declines.  “Japanese companies are getting better at providing
attractive products for the older generation,” said Nobuhiro
Maeda, a gerontology analyst at NLI Research Institute and a
visiting fellow for the Institute of Gerontology at  Tokyo 
University. “Winning market share in the expanding senior
market is the key for companies to survive at home and that’s
critical for the future of Japan’s economy.”  Economic Contraction  Spending by consumers over the age of 60 amounted to 101.2
trillion yen in 2011, a 26.5 percent surge since 2002, according
to data compiled by Dai-Ichi Life Research Institute in Tokyo.
By comparison, the nation’s economy  shrank  by 6.2 percent in the
same period, unadjusted for changes in prices.  The outlays are helping elevate the importance of domestic
demand. Private consumption reached 60.6 percent of gross
domestic product in the fiscal year through March, the biggest
such ratio since at least 1994, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “For Japanese consumption and the economy, spending by the
elderly has become a dominant demand component,”  Masamichi Adachi , a JPMorgan Chase & Co. economist in Tokyo, wrote in a
note today. “Already-high propensity to consume of the elderly
has been rising;  baby boomers  are spending lavishly.”  Bubble Memories  With 7 million baby boomers starting to retire this year,
and about one-third of citizens forecast by the National
Institute of Population to be over 65 by 2030, the opportunities
are poised to increase for services companies geared toward
retirees. Japan’s older folk also retain memory of a time before
the so-called lost decades after the 1990 asset-bubble pop, when
wages weren’t compressed by employers cutting costs amid
unrelenting deflation.  “After going through the rapid-growth period before the
bubble burst, the older generations know the joy of spending --
unlike young ones, whose paychecks have been affected by
deflation from the beginning of their careers,” said  Yoshimasa Maruyama , chief economist at Itochu Corp. in Tokyo.  The source of growth may help ease the transition of the
world’s third-largest economy away from manufacturing, as yen
appreciation spurs companies from Nissan Motor Co. to Panasonic
Corp. shift operations abroad. The currency has risen 44 percent
against the dollar in the past five years, and at 79.40 at 5:08
p.m. in Tokyo was about 5 percent from a postwar high.  Investor Opportunity  “This sector is what investors can enjoy relief in when
uncertainties are high in the global economy,” said Tadao Kimura, senior  fund manager  for Sumitomo Mitsui Asset Management
Co.’s  Genki Senior Life Open (79311005)  exchange-traded fund, which climbed
3.1 percent in the six months through Aug. 16, a period when
Europe’s crisis contributed to a 3.1 percent decline in the
 Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average. “There is much more room to grow in
Japan’s aging-related industries.”  Jobs in the medical and welfare industry alone increased by
2.5 million, to 7.1 million, in the past decade as manufacturers
cut their payrolls by 1.7 million to 10.5 million, government
data show. Services gains helped keep  unemployment  down even
amid economic stagnation. The jobless rate was 4.3 percent in
June, compared with an average of 4.6 percent in the past decade.  “The importance of  consumer spending  by aging generations
is increasing and the trend is expected to continue,” the  Bank
of Japan  said in a report released on July 18. “Consumer
spending is gradually increasing even though households’ income
isn’t rising.”  Smaller Pay  Services job growth isn’t a panacea, because the pay is
typically less than in industry. The average annual male wage in
manufacturing was 3.15 million yen last year, while it was 2.75
million yen in the service sector, Labor Ministry data show.  Another challenge is matching employment demand with job
seekers unaccustomed to targeting the services sector and
lacking the training needed to pass qualification tests for
positions such as at nursing homes. The  unemployment rate  for
15-to-24 year olds was around 2 percent when the retiring
generation entered the labor market. It was 7.4 percent in June.  “Nursing and health care are growing industries, but
they’re still in the pre-dawn period,” said Takashi Unayama, an
associate professor at Kobe University’s graduate school of
economics who has analyzed Japan’s aging and the economy.
“Their growth from here depends a lot on how the government can
implement market mechanisms, rather than on just relying on
public spending.”  Noda’s Goal  Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda ’s government has recognized
the rising importance of services, setting a target to create
2.8 million jobs in medical, health and nursing care by 2020,
according to a draft of its growth strategy released on July 11.  Any success Japanese companies have at home unlocking the
 savings  of older generations -- those over 60 hold about 60
percent of 1,500 trillion yen in household assets, the NLI
Research Institute estimates -- may give them an edge abroad, as
other nations follow Japan’s aging path.  “Japanese companies should be better positioned because
they are exposed longer” to the aging phenomenon, said Xavier
Mesnard, a partner at Chicago-based  A.T. Kearney  who co-wrote a
report on generational marketing strategies published last year.
“I would expect them to export their skills to overseas
markets.”  SMS Co. (2175) , founded by Shuhei Morofuji -- who at 25 was
concerned about Japan’s fading from the center stage of the
world economy -- is one new aspiring global champion. The
company provides human-resource services for elderly care givers,
such as job networking. The Tokyo-based company’s share price
has more than doubled since it listed on the first section of
the Tokyo Stock Exchange in December, and is expanding its
business to  China ,  South Korea  and Vietnam.  Rivaling Cars  “We see business opportunities to establish a social
fabric for the elderly,” said Masato Sugizaki, director of
corporate planning at SMS. “This market has potential to grow
as big as Japan’s car industry.”  The impact of aging is spreading across the economy. At
 Hoosiers Corp. (8907) , the second-best performer in Japan’s  Topix index 
in the past three years, executives began to tap into the
expanding senior market last year by offering the Tokyo-based
company’s first nursing-care condo.  “We are going to intensify our efforts to expand business
in the senior market,” said Tetsuya Hirooka, 49, president of
Hoosiers, which he named after the moniker for Indiana’s
residents, following a homestay in the U.S. state. “It’s not so
much our choice as it is the trend of the time.”  Ikiiki, which sold Awaya, the octogenarian traveler, on
study-abroad trips, was a publisher of magazines for older
readers before branching into travel packages.  English Garden  “I have great memories of everything I did” on last
year’s trip, said Awaya, who highlighted a stroll through an
English garden so big and replete with flowers it seemed like a
botanic exhibit.  JTB Corp., Japan’s biggest travel agency, is aiming to
increase the ratio of sales of overseas trips to those aged 60
or older to 15 percent of the total this fiscal year, from 10
percent last year. Among lessons the Tokyo-based company learned
so far: ask hotels to cut the amount of salt in meals, and bus
operators to assign two seats per traveler for added comfort.  Not everything goes smoothly. When a chef in Italy prepared
a Japanese dressing for a salad on one JTB tour, the group
demanded an Italian offering. JTB switched to Italian dressing
the following week.  “It’s not very easy to give what they really want,” said
Ryuta Iida, JTB’s assistant manager for tour planning.  Hitting Gym  Meantime, at  Central Sports Co. (4801) , Japan’s No. 2 fitness-club
chain, there are expanding courses targeting older people. Those
over 50 made up more than a half of its 390,000 members for the
first time in the year through March. At some clubs, elderly
members queue up before opening hours, said Kosuke Fugami, a
spokesman for the Tokyo-based company.  At a game parlor in Tokyo’s Katsushika ward where hot green
tea is served, as much as 70 percent of customers are older
people, said Ayako Ikuta, spokeswoman for  Taito Corp. (9684) , which
operates the facility.  “This place is awesome,” said Michiko Kobayakawa, 77, her
finger-tips blackened after playing a coin game for two hours.
“At home, I would end up talking about the same old things like
the weather, and watching TV. But this place keeps me healthy
because it’s easy to make friends here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  