-- England Beats Italy in Soccer Exhibition, Argentina, Spain Win
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-16T00:50:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/england-beats-italy-in-soccer-exhibition-argentina-spain-win.html
England  defeated Italy for the first
time since 1997 as Argentina and Brazil secured soccer
exhibition wins in Europe. Spain beat Puerto Rico in its first
game since securing back-to-back European Championship titles.  Jermain Defoe  scored with 10 minutes left in Berne,
Switzerland, last night to give England a 2-1 victory and end
its four-match winless streak against Italy, which won the
teams’ June 24 Euro 2012 quarterfinal in a penalty shootout.  “It was good to blood new players and give some others who
haven’t played so much a chance,” England manager  Roy Hodgson 
said on the Football Association’s website. “They answered the
challenge in the best possible way. It was a good victory.”  Italy, which lost to Spain in the European Championship
final, had taken a 15th-minute lead through Daniel De Rossi’s
header before  Phil Jagielka  tied it 12 minutes later. Defoe
finished off an 80th-minute counterattack by arrowing a shot
from the edge of the penalty area into the far corner.  World player of the year  Lionel Messi  scored one goal,
missed a penalty kick and hit a post as Argentina beat 10-man
Germany 3-1 in Frankfurt. Messi had his spot-kick saved by the
replacement goalkeeper in the 32nd minute after starting goalie
Ron-Robert Zieler was red carded.  Leandro Damiao’s first-half header and two goals from
Alexandre Pato in the final 10 minutes gave Brazil a 3-0 win
against Sweden in Solna. Elsewhere, France began Didier Deschamps’s tenure as coach with a 0-0 draw against Uruguay in
Le Havre, while Belgium beat the Netherlands 4-2 in Brussels.  Santi Cazorla and Cesc Fabregas scored in the first half as
European and world champion Spain extended its unbeaten run to
12 matches in  Puerto Rico .  Spain, which started the match with four players who began
the 4-0 victory against Italy in the July 1 Euro 2012 final,
will open the defense of its World Cup title Sept. 11 with a
qualifying match against Georgia.  European qualifying for the 2014 tournament in Brazil
begins  Sept. 7 , when Italy visits Bulgaria and England travels
to  Moldova .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  