-- Lenovo’s Says RT Tablets Up to $300 Cheaper Than Win 8
-- B y   I a n   K i n g
-- 2012-08-16T20:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/lenovo-s-says-rt-tablets-up-to-300-cheaper-than-win-8.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, said new devices
based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows RT software will cost $200 to
$300 less than competing products using Windows 8 software.  Microsoft plans to release two versions of its new
operating system this October to bring a new touch-screen
interface to computers and tablets that will better help it
compete against  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPad. Windows 8 works on chips made
by  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  while Windows RT
works on  ARM Holdings Plc (ARM)  technology-based chips, a standard
that dominates in mobile phones.  “RT will play in consumer and retail at very aggressive
price points,” said David Schmoock, head of Lenovo’s North
America operations. “It will do well but it’s going to be more
of a consumer price point play to begin with,” he said, in an
interview today.  Windows 8 has more compatibility with other Windows
software, making it more attractive to corporations, while
Windows RT will “be a very good consumer box,” Schmoock said.
Windows 8 tablets will cost $600 to $700, he said.  Separately, the Intel Corp.-led push to make notebooks more
attractive to consumers with thinner and lighter devices it’s
branding Ultrabooks, may struggle to meet the chipmaker’s goals
this year, according to Schmoock. Intel has said the devices are
on course to account for 40 percent of consumer-notebook PCs by
the end of this year. Schmoock estimates that they are more
likely to grab a 20 percent to 25 percent market share.  Intel’s Ultrabook  Success of the initiative will depend on how quickly
computer makers can bring down the price of the products, he
said.  “It’s going to require a very strong first couple of weeks
of launch of Win 8,” said Schmoock. “They’ll be a lot bigger
than they are now. I don’t know if it will get all the way up to
40 percent.”  Intel “always sets aggressive” targets, Kari Aakre, a
spokeswoman for the  Santa Clara , California-based company, said.
“We’re not backing off our goals,” she said in a telephone
interview.  “We think Ultrabook is the best solution for what
consumers want.”  Lenovo reported a 30 percent increase in profit in the
three months ended June 30, as sales increased faster than the
overall personal-computer market and came closer to taking
 Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s No. 1 spot.  Lenovo, which has headquarters in Beijing and Morrisville,
North Carolina, gained 6.3 percent to HK$6.60 in Hong Kong
trading, the  highest  since June 22. The stock has risen 27
percent this year, surpassing the 8.3 percent gain for the
city’s Hang Seng Index.  Lenovo’s market share rose two percentage points to 14.7
percent in the quarter, almost matching Hewlett-Packard’s 14.9
percent, Stamford, Connecticut-based Gartner Inc. said July 11.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ian King in  San Francisco  at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  