-- Lenovo Earnings Rise 30% as PC Maker Boosts Market Share
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-16T09:49:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/lenovo-earnings-rise-30-as-pc-maker-boosts-market-share.html
Lenovo Group Ltd. (992) , the world’s
second-biggest maker of personal computers, posted a 30 percent
increase in first-quarter profit as it expanded market share to
almost pull even with leader  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)   Net income  climbed to $141.4 million in the three months
ended June 30, from $108.8 million a year earlier, Lenovo said
in a statement today. That beat the $133.5 million average of
eight analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Lenovo shares surged 6.3 percent as the results reflect
efforts by Chief Executive Officer  Yang Yuanqing  to meet his
goal of making Lenovo the world’s largest PC producer. The
company increased shipments of computers including Thinkpad
laptops by almost 15 percent in the quarter, even as industry
levels fell 0.1 percent, according to researcher Gartner Inc.  “The PC market is not doing well globally, but Lenovo’s
market share gains are offsetting that weakness,”  Kirk Yang ,
Hong Kong-based head of Asia technology research at Barclays
Plc, said in a telephone interview today.  Lenovo, whose headquarters are in Beijing and Morrisville,
 North Carolina  closed at HK$6.60 in Hong Kong trading, the
highest since June 22. Lenovo has risen 27 percent this year,
surpassing the 8.3 percent gain for the city’s  Hang Seng Index .  “This set of results reaffirmed Lenovo is executing well,
and continues to deliver above industry growth despite the tough
macro environment,” Jonathan Ng, an analyst at CIMB-GK Pte.,
wrote in a report today. “Lenovo will tighten its costs to
ensure a balanced growth.”  Expanding Share  Lenovo’s market share rose two percentage points to 14.7
percent in the quarter, almost matching Hewlett-Packard’s 14.9
percent,  Stamford , Connecticut-based Gartner said July 11.  Revenue rose 35 percent to $8.01 billion, compared with the
$8.12 billion average of 13 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Lenovo, which bought the PC division of International
Business Machines Corp. in 2005, used acquisitions to help boost
sales in the past year. The company bought control of  Medion AG (MDN) ,
an Essen, Germany-based computer maker, and the PC unit of
Tokyo-based  NEC Corp. (6701)  in 2011.  The PC maker is stepping up development of smartphones,
tablets and Internet-ready televisions to widen its product line
for consumers, following Apple Inc. and Samsung Electronics Co.  Total phone sales in  China  reached almost 7 million units,
surpassing the company’s PC volume in its home market for the
first time, Yang said on a conference call today. Lenovo’s
smartphone market share in China reached 13 percent, making it
the second-largest supplier there, he said.  The company isn’t focusing on the profitability of the
mobile phone business for now and expects it to break even in
the next few quarters, Yang said. The new business eventually
will deliver operating margins similar to its core PC business,
he said.  “Even with a weak macro-economic environment, and the PC
market seeing negative growth, these new areas still shine,
especially smartphones and  emerging markets ,” Yang said. “We
will seize these growth opportunities, and continue to grow
faster than the market.”  Largest Market  Revenue from China, Lenovo’s biggest market, rose 24
percent to $3.52 billion in the quarter, making up 44 percent of
its total.  Lenovo’s “penetration in China’s countryside and lower-
tier cities is higher than any of the others,” Christine Wang,
a Taipei-based analyst at Daiwa Capital Markets, said in an
interview yesterday. “In lower-tier cities, the PC growth rate
is still double-digit, which is why Lenovo is able to beat the
industry average.”  The company, which previously reported sales outside China
under the Mature Group and Emerging Markets Group, provided a
new  geographic breakdown  in the latest results.  Sales in  North America  climbed 6.8 percent to $1.18
billion, comprising about 15 percent of global revenue for the
period. In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, sales gained 62
percent to $1.58 billion, or 20 percent of the total  In the Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions, sales
increased 72 percent to $1.72 billion.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Edmond Lococo in Beijing at 
 elococo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  