-- Merkel Cites Canada as Debt-Deficit Model in Europe
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a
-- 2012-08-16T14:46:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/merkel-cites-canada-as-debt-deficit-model-in-europe-s-crisis.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel 
renewed her call for austerity as crucial to tackling financial
turmoil in the euro area, praising  Canada ’s economic example as
she returned to the crisis fight after her summer vacation.  Merkel, facing European pressure to ease bailout terms and
allow shared debt, and from global partners to do more to stop
contagion, used a visit to Canada as the stage for her first
public comments in a month on the crisis. She hailed Canada’s
budget discipline, promotion of economic growth and “not living
on borrowed money” as models for the 17-nation euro region.  “This is also the right solution for Europe,” Merkel said
at a  reception  in Ottawa late yesterday before talks with Prime
Minister  Stephen Harper , according to a transcript posted on the
German government’s website. “I will report on our political
will to overcome the euro crisis and on our determination in
Europe to band together for a common currency.”  Merkel returns to the global stage as the crisis enters a
new phase. Germany’s supreme court will rule on the legality of
Europe’s permanent rescue fund next month, when  Greece ’s
international creditors are due to report on progress in meeting
bailout targets. Italy and Spain meanwhile have yet to decide if
they’ll request help from the  European Central Bank  to lower
borrowing costs.  ‘Becoming Clear’  “It is becoming clear that the ECB purchases have to be
conditional on the implementation of austerity and structural
reform measures in that country,” Citigroup Global Markets
analysts led by Juergen Michels said in a note to clients today.  Greece, on its second rescue program after triggering the
crisis in late 2009, may run out of road at the end of the year.
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras’s government probably can’t
come up with enough austerity measures even if creditors extend
the time line as his coalition wants, according to Citigroup.
That means an end to international funding “looks very likely”
after the next audit set for December, it said.  Merkel is due to host French President  Francois Hollande  on
Aug. 23, Paris-based  Agence France-Presse  reported today, one
day before Samaras travels to Berlin for talks. Italian media
have reported that Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is due in the
German capital on Aug. 29, while Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  has said that Merkel will visit  Madrid  on Sept. 6.  Threshold Passed  Italian 10-year bond yields advanced 3 basis points to 5.79
percent as of 4:41 p.m. in Berlin, while equivalent Spanish debt
fell 11 basis points to 6.50 percent. Spanish 10-year bond
yields reached a euro-era high of 7.62 percent on July 24, past
the threshold that prompted Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek
bailouts. German 10-year bonds yielded 1.53 percent today.  Merkel, as leader of Europe’s largest economy and the
biggest single contributor to euro-region bailouts, is facing
calls from Italy and Spain to pool debt to bring down bond
yields, from Greece to back an easing of its austerity timetable
and from the ECB for politicians to take the lead in fighting
the crisis. President  Barack Obama , Canada and major  developing
countries  are also pressing Europe to stamp out the crisis
that’s weighing on the global economy.  “They need to do much more,” Canadian Finance Minister
 Jim Flaherty  told reporters yesterday before Merkel arrived.
“We have been clear for several years that not only should the
European countries take overwhelming concerted action to take
control of the situation, but also that the European countries
have more than adequate resources to do so.”  Harper, who offered Merkel a barbecue featuring elk meat
yesterday, Canada’s CTV news channel reported on  its website ,
plans to hold a joint news conference with the chancellor at 5
p.m. Berlin time. Later today, Merkel is due to visit an ocean
research center in Halifax on her trip back to Berlin.  German trade representatives accompanying Merkel include
the chief executives of BASF SE, the world’s largest chemical
maker, ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems and K+S Group, which is
involved in mining potash in Saskatchewan, CTV reported.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  