-- Merkel Says Germany Backs Draghi’s ECB Aid Conditionality
-- B y   T o n y   C z u c z k a   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-08-17T07:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/merkel-says-germany-backs-draghi-s-conditionality-for-ecb-aid.html
Chancellor Angela Merkel  backed the
European Central Bank’s insistence on conditions for helping
reduce borrowing costs in indebted countries, saying  Germany  is
“in line” with the ECB’s approach to defending the euro.  “Obviously time is pressing” on stamping out the debt
crisis, though “on many of these issues we feel we’re on the
right track,” Merkel told reporters in Ottawa yesterday at a
joint press conference with Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper . Euro-area policy makers “feel committed to do
everything we can to maintain the common currency.”  Asked about ECB chief  Mario Draghi ’s announcement that the
central bank may return to sovereign bond-buying, Merkel said
recent ECB decisions “have made it clear that the  European
Central Bank  is counting on political action in the form of
conditionality as the precondition for a positive development of
the euro.”  Merkel, facing European pressure to ease bailout terms and
allow shared debt as well as calls by global partners to stop
contagion, returned to the crisis fight after her summer
vacation, using the trip to Canada to make her first public
comments on the turmoil in a month. She hailed Canada’s budget
and debt discipline as a model for the 17-nation euro area.  Draghi’s Proposal  Draghi said on Aug. 2 that the ECB might buy  government
bonds  to help lower borrowing costs in countries such as Spain
and  Italy , though only in return for strict conditions and if
governments act first by buying debt through  Europe ’s bailout
funds.  Spain  and Italy have yet to say whether they will request
aid.  “It is becoming clear that the ECB purchases have to be
conditional on the implementation of austerity and structural
reform measures in that country,” Citigroup Global Markets
analysts led by Juergen Michels said in a note to clients.  Merkel is returning to the global stage as the crisis
enters a new phase. Germany’s supreme court will rule on the
legality of Europe’s permanent rescue fund next month, when
 Greece ’s international creditors are due to report on progress
in meeting bailout targets. Draghi said the ECB will thrash out
the details of its bond-buying proposals by then.  Hollande, Samaras  Merkel steps up her crisis-fighting diplomacy next week,
when she is due to host French President Francois Hollande Aug.
23, Paris-based  Agence France-Presse  reported, one day before
Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras visits Berlin for talks.
Italian media reported that Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is due in
the German capital on Aug. 29, while Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  has said that Merkel will visit  Madrid  on Sept. 6.  Finnish Foreign Minister Erkki Tuomioja said his country,
one of four in the euro region with the top AAA credit rating,
is preparing for the currency union’s breakup, the U.K.’s
Telegraph newspaper reported today, citing an interview.  “We have to face openly the possibility of a euro
breakup,” Tuomioja was quoted as saying. While that’s not
advocated by the Finnish government, a breakup “could make the
EU function better.” Tuomioja told Finnish media today that he
had only been stating the obvious.  Merkel, as leader of Europe’s largest economy and the
biggest single contributor to euro-region bailouts, is facing
calls from Italy and Spain to pool debt to bring down bond
yields, from Greece to back an easing of its austerity timetable
and from the ECB for politicians to take the lead in fighting
the crisis. She also faces domestic pressure from her coalition
partners to refuse any more aid for Greece.  Spanish Yields  Italian 10-year bond yields opened little changed at 5.78
percent as of 9:07 a.m. while equivalent Spanish debt slid 1
basis point to 6.49 percent. Spanish yields reached a euro-era
high of 7.62 percent on July 24, beyond the threshold that
prompted Greece,  Portugal  and Ireland to seek bailouts. German
10-year bonds yielded 1.53 percent today. The euro bought
$1.2361.  Harper, who offered Merkel a barbecue with elk meat upon
her arrival,  Canada ’s CTV news channel reported  on its website ,
said “there are additional things that have to be done” by
European policy makers. “I have great confidence in the
chancellor’s leadership,” he said.  ‘European Friends’  “We have great confidence in our European friends,”
Harper said. “My experience has been the vast number of them
are seized with the scale of the challenge and with the range of
options that have to be considered.”  Even so, Greece, on its second rescue program after
triggering the crisis in late 2009, may run out of road at the
end of the year. Samaras’s government probably can’t come up
with enough austerity measures even if creditors extend the time
line as his coalition wants, according to the Citigroup note.
That means an end to international funding “looks very likely”
after the next audit set for December, it said.  Europeans “need to do much more,” Canadian Finance
Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters two days ago. “We have
been clear for several years that not only should the European
countries take overwhelming concerted action to take control of
the situation, but also that the European countries have more
than adequate resources to do so.”  Merkel, a physicist by training, visited an ocean research
center in Halifax yesterday on her trip back to Berlin. German
business leaders accompanying the chancellor included the chief
executives of  BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest chemical maker,
ThyssenKrupp Marine Systems and K+S Group, which is involved in
mining potash in Saskatchewan, CTV reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Patrick Donahue at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net ;
Tony Czuczka in Berlin at 
 aczuczka@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  