-- Ethanol Would Suffer Under Waived U.S. Mandate, Vilsack Says
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-08-16T20:09:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/ethanol-would-suffer-should-u-s-mandate-be-waived-vilsack-says.html
Investment in U.S. ethanol
production, which along with a drought-plagued crop is being
blamed for near-record corn costs, may decline should federal
use requirements for the biofuel be reduced, Agriculture
Secretary Tom Vilsack said.  At least 25 U.S. senators and 156 House members have signed
letters asking  Lisa Jackson , administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency, to suspend or lower mandates on how much
ethanol the country must use this year and next. Last week the
Obama administration said it’s reviewing ethanol policy. A
review is appropriate, while a waiver may bring long-term harm
to ethanol investment without having a major effect on food
prices, Vilsack said.  “My concern is that we send a signal to investors of
perhaps, less confidence in the industry,” Vilsack said in an
interview today at the  Iowa  State Fair in  Des Moines . “We need
to see whether the market is responding” with lower demand in
the face of higher prices, before making a decision to relax use
requirements, he said.  Jose Graziano da Silva, director-general of the  United
Nations ’  Food and Agriculture Organization , last week called for
a suspension of U.S. ethanol-use rules to let more corn be used
for food and livestock feed. The worst drought in 56 years has
pushed corn futures up 60 percent since June 15. Prices reached
a record $8.49 a bushel on Aug. 10 when the government forecast
the corn harvest would be 13 percent smaller than 2011. Today,
futures closed at $8.075, up 0.4 percent on the Chicago Board of
Trade.  USDA, EPA  White House Press Secretary  Jay Carney  in Iowa yesterday
told reporters that the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  and the
EPA will be evaluating data to determine what should be done
about the waiver requests and that he didn’t know if anyone has
directly discussed the topic with the president. Last week,
drought was affecting 87 percent of U.S. corn, 85 percent of
soybeans, 63 percent of hay and 72 percent of cattle, according
to the  National Climatic Data Center .  Still, the dryness may be easing in some places. The
drought in the lower 48 states eased last week to 61.8 percent
from 62.5 percent, with improvement in all categories of
severity except for the worst, the  U.S. Drought Monitor 
reported. For the coming week, most of the Midwest and northern
Great Plains are expected to have normal or below-normal
rainfall, Michael Brewer of the climate data center in
Asheville,  North Carolina , wrote in an analysis.  Impact Declining  While crops in some parts of the country are in worse
condition than they were a week or two ago, “the overall impact
of the drought is beginning to decline,” Vilsack said. The
uneven effects of the dryness, which vary from farm to farm,
make any predictions of harvest size difficult, he said. “I’m
not sure we know all we need to know to understand what’s
happening with this crop.”  The USDA on Aug. 10 predicted ethanol use in the year
starting Sept. 1 would consume 4.5 billion bushels, down from 5
billion in the current year. Use for ethanol as a share of the
estimated crop would rise to 42 percent from 40 percent.  A 2007 law that includes what’s called the Renewable Fuels
Standard mandates the use of 13.2 billion gallons of biofuels
such as ethanol this year, and 13.6 billion in 2013. The law is
designed to help reduce the nation’s reliance on oil from
overseas sources.  Companies including Poet LLC and  Archer Daniels Midland Co. (ADM) 
produced 819,000 barrels (34.3 million gallons) of ethanol a day
in the week ended Aug. 10, down 15 percent from a record in
December. Stockpiles sank 1.1 percent to 18.4 million barrels,
the lowest since Dec. 30, Energy Department data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in Washington at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  