-- End the Ethanol Mandate
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/ethanol-in-gas-tanks-makes-food-on-your-table-cost-more.html
Record-high corn prices should be
sending a clear message to policy makers in  Washington :
Requiring people to put corn-based fuel in their gas tanks is a
bad idea.  Since 2005, the U.S. government has mandated that gasoline
contain ethanol, almost all of it derived from corn. The policy,
ostensibly aimed at reducing the country’s dependence on foreign
oil and at improving the environment, has been a bonanza for
farmers. Land planted with corn soared by a fourth after
Congress passed the Energy Independence and Security  Act  of
2007, which required that gasoline producers blend 15 billion
gallons of ethanol into the nation’s gasoline supply by 2015.  Now the drought of 2012, the worst in more than 50 years,
is making clear the downside of a policy that leads the U.S. to
devote 40 percent its corn harvest to fuel production. With this
year’s crop expected to be the smallest in six years, corn prices
have jumped 60 percent since June. The ethanol requirements are
aggravating the rise in food costs and spreading it to the price
of gasoline, which is up almost 40 cents a  gallon  since the
start of July.  Buying Meat  The damage is far-reaching. Beef and pork producers are
slaughtering their stocks at a record pace to cut use of corn
feed that costs two-thirds more than three months ago. This
week, President  Barack Obama  told a campaign rally in Iowa that
the federal government will buy $170 million of meat to prop up
the market. U.S. cattle herds next year are forecast to be the
 smallest  since 1952, a guarantee of more expensive food in years
to come.  Ethanol production and the drought are hardly the only
forces contributing to higher prices. Exports of corn to  China 
and other countries also play a role, as do ethanol policies in
 Europe . And it is true that ending the ethanol mandate might cut
food prices by no more than 5 percent at best.  Still, the drought lays bare the folly of trying to expand
an industry where the economic fundamentals don’t make much
sense. Based on its energy content, ethanol is roughly 50
percent more expensive than gasoline, and the acreage required
to produce it distorts land prices. Farmers this year planted
the largest corn crop in 75 years, according to the U.S.
Agriculture Department. The price of an acre of  prime farmland 
in  Iowa  -- the nation’s biggest corn producer -- has more than
doubled in the past five years, a time when other real estate
prices tumbled.  Researchers at  Texas A&M University  have  estimated  that
diverting corn to make ethanol forces Americans to pay $40
billion a year in higher food prices. On top of that, it costs
taxpayers $1.78 in subsidies for each gallon of gasoline that
corn-based ethanol replaces,  according  to the  Congressional
Budget Office .  As for the environmental virtues of ethanol, those were
debunked long ago. True, gasoline-ethanol blends can lower
greenhouse emissions by 20 percent, and ethanol can replace
toxic additives such as benzene that make gasoline more
combustible. But growing corn is energy intensive. Tractors that
run on  diesel fuel  must plow fields, plant seed, spread
fertilizer and pesticides (that run into local waterways),
harvest the crop and haul it to refining plants. Unlike oil,
ethanol is highly corrosive and can’t be transported by
pipeline. Trucks or trains must carry the finished product to
gasoline blenders. By some  calculations , ethanol takes more
energy to produce than it yields, negating the environmental
benefits.  More than 150 House members and 25 U.S. senators, as well
as the director general of the United Nations Food and
Agricultural Organization, have asked Obama to temporarily
suspend the ethanol mandate in order to check the rise in food
prices. He should listen to them, and Congress should
permanently roll back the ethanol requirements.  This isn’t to say ethanol doesn’t have a place in the U.S.
energy mix. Gasoline needs to be combined with agents that carry
oxygen to help cars and trucks run more efficiently. Ethanol
fits the bill. But the government should let the demand for
ethanol obey the laws of the market, rather than the desires of
the agricultural lobby.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on  Israel’s threat  to strike
 Iran ; Stephen L. Carter asks whether anything is really
 “politically impossible” ;  Noah Feldman  on  Egypt’s democratic
coup ; William Pesek on  reviving India’s economy ; Amity Shlaes on
 lessons of the lobster trade ;  Jonathan Weil  on  Standard
Chartered ’s  money laundering settlement ; Adam Kirsch on
 presidential weakness  in the novel “Primary Colors.”  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 