-- Etihad CEO Interested in Buying Ryanair’s Aer Lingus Stake
-- B y   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-08-16T12:19:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/etihad-is-interested-in-buying-aer-lingus-stake-from-ryanair.html
Gulf carrier  Etihad Airways  said
it’s interested in buying  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA) ’s near 30 percent
stake in  Aer Lingus Group Plc (AERL)  as Europe’s biggest discount
airline struggles to take over its Irish competitor.  Etihad, which already owns 3 percent of Aer Lingus, would
be “very happy to have that discussion,” Chief Executive
Officer  James Hogan  said today by telephone from  Brisbane ,
 Australia . “Dublin is a strong, profitable route for us and
we’re very keen to strengthen our partnership there.”  The third-largest Middle Eastern carrier has also had talks
about buying the Irish state’s 25 percent stake in Aer Lingus as
it invests overseas to help bolster traffic through its Abu
Dhabi hub. Ryanair’s bid for Aer Lingus has drawn opposition
from management and politicians and sparked a review by European
Union regulators who blocked a similar takeover bid in 2006.  Dublin-based Ryanair said in its June bid statement that if
Etihad or another investor acquired the state’s stake it would
be willing to enter into talks about selling its own holding.
Ryanair spokesman Stephen McNamara declined to comment today.  Limited Opportunities  Aer Lingus  rose  as much as 1.4 percent and was trading 0.9
percent higher at 1.08 euros as of 11.50 a.m. in Dublin -- 17
percent below Ryanair’s offer of 1.30 euros. The stock hasn’t
closed above 1.09 euros since the bid was announced.  Ryanair rose 1.7 percent and was later priced 0.8 percent
higher at 4.11 euros.  Etihad has already invested in Air Berlin Plc,  Virgin
Australia Holdings Ltd. (VAH)  and Air Seychelles Ltd., as well as
striking about 36 code-share agreements. Talks on code-sharing
with  Air France-KLM  are under way, Hogan said, though an equity
investment isn’t being considered.  The Gulf operator is interested in few other airlines and
has ruled out “mega-carriers” and airlines based in North and
South America, Hogan said.  “There aren’t many other opportunities,” he said. Non-
European investors can’t hold majority stakes in EU carriers
because of global aviation agreements.  Etihad signed a code-sharing agreement with Aer Lingus in
July, allowing it to sell tickets on the Irish company’s flights
linking Dublin with airports including  London Heathrow . Irish
Transport Minister  Leo Varadkar  said May 1 after Etihad took its
holding that the Gulf carrier’s involvement was a “good thing.”  Ryanair Offer  Ryanair has offered to buy out other Aer Lingus investors
in a deal valuing the smaller carrier at 694 million euros ($852
million). Aer Lingus has rejected the proposal, saying the EU
will probably veto it on competition grounds.  U.K. regulators are separately investigating Ryanair’s
existing Aer Lingus stake and its impact on the travel market. A
tribunal rejected attempts to block the investigation on Aug. 8.  Emirates Plans  Hogan said a potential tie-up between Etihad’s neighbor
Emirates and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  on Australia-Europe routes
would be a boon for the Middle East aviation sector. Dubai-based
Emirates, the world’s largest carrier by international passenger
traffic, may reach a deal with Qantas within six months,
Chairman Sheikh Ahmed bin Saeed al-Maktoum, said Aug. 2.  “It’s great for the Gulf carriers the more people that fly
through the Gulf,” Hogan said. Etihad has a similar agreement
with Virgin Australia, and said in a statement today it will add
new flights to Brisbane from February, taking services between
Australia and Abu Dhabi flown by the two to 28 a week.  Etihad has also guarded against an increase in fuel prices
by hedging 80 percent of its requirement for the year, Hogan
said.  Jet fuel  prices have risen 23 percent in Singapore trading
since hitting a low for the year on June 22.  Ryanair CEO  Michael O’Leary ’s combined pay jumped 18
percent to 1.3 million euros in the year ended March 31, the
company said in its annual report. His salary rose to 800,000
euros from 600,000 euros and the bonus to 500,000 euros from
400,000 euros. There was no pension contribution, compared with
0.1 million euros in the previous year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Fickling in Sydney at 
 dfickling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  