-- Etisalat Targets Rivals’ Customers for 45% Nigeria Growth
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-08-16T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/etisalat-targets-rivals-customers-for-45-nigeria-growth.html
Emirates Telecommunications Corp. (ETISALAT) ,
the largest publicly traded company in the  United Arab Emirates (ADSMI) ,
is targeting subscriber growth of 45 percent in Nigeria next
year by luring customers from its three larger rivals.  Etisalat, as the company is known, is the smallest mobile
phone operator in sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second biggest economy.
It is aiming to have 20 million active subscribers by the end of
next year, from about 13.8 million now, Steven Evans, chief
executive officer of the Nigerian unit, said in a phone
interview yesterday from Lagos, the country’s commercial
capital.  “Most of our growth is coming from people leaving other
operators,” he said.  Etisalat, which has operated in Nigeria since October 2008,
is looking to increase its customer share in Africa’s most
populous nation of more than 160 million people, to become the
third- or second-largest phone operator. Its rivals include
 South Africa ’s  MTN Group Ltd. (MTN) , the largest operator, accounting
for 42.8 million users, according to April data compiled by the
Nigerian Communications Commission, the industry regulator.
Globacom Ltd. has 20.8 million customers and  Bharti Airtel ltd. 
has 18.6 million.  There were 120.4 million users phones using the Global
System of Mobile communication, the most widely used technical
standard, in Nigeria at the end of June, according to the
regulator.  Big Game  Voice call growth in Nigeria is “slowing down” and “data
is a big game,” Evans said.  With Nigeria’s voice market expanding at about 10 percent
or less on an annual basis across the industry, data services
are providing faster revenue growth, with subscribers on 3G
networks started in September last year growing as much as six-
fold since then, he said.  Etisalat plans to invest as much as $500 million annually
in  Nigeria  this year and the next to improve infrastructure and
fund expansion. The industry regulator fined the four operators
in May for failing to meet minimum service standards.  MTN and Etisalat were each fined 360 million naira ($2.2
million), while Airtel was given a 270 million naira penalty and
Globacom was charged 180 million naira, the NCC said May 11.
Nigeria’s mobile-phone companies reached an agreement in June to
pay the penalties.  Service Quality  “Initially all of the four operators were surprised by the
move by the regulator and we made it clear that we felt that
fining the operators was a very counter-productive move, given
the amount of investment all the operators are making into the
network,” said Evans. “We agreed a set of strong key
performance indicators which the regulator is happy with and
we’re happy with.”  Service quality in the country is hindered by a lack of
reliable power as the company has to run two diesel generators
at thousands of network sites, Evans said.  Etisalat isn’t looking immediately to raise funds for
expansion or other expenses, nor considering a stock listing at
the moment, said Evans. The focus of the company’s growth is
“organic” and acquisition opportunities in Nigeria are
“pretty few and far between,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Vernon Wessels at 
 vwessels@bloomberg.net  