-- EU Says It Hasn’t Received Spain Bank Aid Payment Request
-- B y   A n d r e w   C l a p h a m
-- 2012-08-16T11:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/eu-says-it-hasn-t-received-spain-bank-aid-payment-request-1-.html
Spain  hasn’t yet asked the European
Union for an emergency disbursement of financial aid for its
banks, European Commission spokesman Olivier Bailly said.  “The commission has not received any request from the
Spanish authorities, which means in this case Banco de Espana,
for emergency financial aid to its banking sector or any
specific banks,” Bailly told reporters in Brussels today.  Spain is about to receive an emergency disbursement from
the 100 billion-euro ($123 billion) bailout of its financial
system because of restrictions the  European Central Bank  imposed
on bank borrowing, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  The ECB last month imposed limits on how much it will lend
banks against government-guaranteed bonds. The rule change meant
Spain had to ditch a plan for nationalized lender Bankia group
to get a loan from the Frankfurt-based central bank, said the
person, who asked not to be named because the matter is private.  Bailly said that any Spanish request would be submitted to
the commission, the ECB and the so-called eurogroup working
group, a subset of the EU’s  Economic and Financial Committee ,
headed by Austrian Thomas Wieser. The committee is composed of
senior officials from national governments and central banks,
the ECB and the commission.  “Each of the three institutions would have to make its own
assessment and give its opinion,” Bailly said. “As this would
be an emergency request, we can expect that the three
institutions would deal with this matter swiftly.”  Bailly said the commission is in “regular contact” with
the Spanish authorities on implementation of the memorandum of
understanding on bank aid.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Clapham in Brussels at 
 aclapham@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  