-- EU Seeks to Prevent ECB Dominance of European Bank Authority
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 2012-08-16T15:54:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/eu-seeks-to-prevent-euro-dominance-of-european-banking-authority.html
European Union officials are seeking
to prevent the 17 states that share the euro from dominating its
forum for resolving disputes among financial regulators, the
European Banking Authority, according to two people familiar
with the plans.  Euro-area leaders agreed in late June that the Frankfurt-
based  European Central Bank  should oversee lenders in the bloc
as part of their efforts to quell the debt crisis. European
Commission officials drafting a proposal for a common supervisor
are concerned that the central bank’s legal independence may
allow it to override decisions taken by the EBA, which co-
ordinates the work of supervisors in the EU’s 27 member states.  The commission is also weighing changes to the EBA’s voting
rules to prevent euro countries from wielding overwhelming
influence at the London-based authority, the people said on
condition of anonymity because the preparations are private. The
commission intends to unveil legislation on creating the single
supervisor around Sept. 11.  Handing supervisory responsibilities to the ECB shouldn’t
prevent the EU from placing “provisions and limitations” on
its new powers,  Sharon Bowles , chairwoman of the European
Parliament’s Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, said by e-
mail today. “It does not need to be all or nothing.”  Binding Mediation  The euro area is racing to create a single bank supervisor
“involving the ECB” as part of a  deal  reached at a June 28-29
summit that would allow banks to seek direct aid from the
currency union’s bailout funds. It’s one of several steps
advocated by leaders including ECB President  Mario Draghi  to
build a banking union that would combine oversight and crisis-
management functions.  Under current rules, the independent EBA has the power to
rule on disputes between  banking  regulators that concern
interpretations of EU law through a process known as binding
mediation.  Officials working on the single-supervisor plan have found
this may clash with the ECB’s operational independence, which is
guaranteed in EU treaties. This may mean it could overrule or
ignore the EBA’s decisions, according to the people. Efforts to
find a legal solution are continuing, they said.  Stefaan De Rynck, a spokesman for  Michel Barnier , the EU’s
financial services chief, declined to comment immediately.
Spokespeople for the ECB and EBA declined to comment.  ‘Limited Task’  Commission officials working on economic policy and the ECB
agree that the central bank should be covered by binding
mediation, according to documents obtained by Bloomberg news.  “I only foresee a limited task for EBA, possibly in
technical standard setting, if at all,” once the new single
supervisor is in place, said  Karel Lannoo , chief executive
officer of the Centre for European Policy Studies in Brussels.  “We have to accept that the EBA did not have the clout to
stand up against the national supervisors and need to take the
full consequences of this,” he said.  The U.K. is calling on the commission to avoid a situation
in which non-euro countries are covered by mediation decisions
that are optional for the ECB, according to the documents, which
include EU and U.K. analysis of the policy debate. U.K.
authorities have said that such an approach would damage the
single market.  The U.K. is also pressing for guarantees that euro states
won’t have an automatic majority in the EBA’s decision-making,
according to the documents.  Still, it wants national regulators in the currency region
to retain individual seats on the EBA’s board of supervisors,
according to the documents.  One policy option under consideration in the commission would
make the ECB the sole representative of the euro area at EBA
meetings, an option preferred by the central bank, an EU
official said earlier this month.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;
 Rebecca Christie  in Brussels at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net  