-- Euro-Area Inflation Held Steady in July After Economy Contracted
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-08-16T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/euro-area-inflation-held-steady-in-july-after-economy-contracted.html
Euro-area inflation  held steady last
month after the economy slipped into contraction and as
companies eliminated jobs to weather the fiscal crisis.  The  inflation rate  in the 17-nation single-currency bloc
remained at 2.4 percent from a year ago, the same as in June and
May, the European Union’s  statistics office  in Luxembourg said
today, confirming an initial estimate published on July 31.  Core
inflation , excluding energy costs, quickened to 1.7 percent from
1.6 percent. That’s the fastest since April 2009.  The euro-area economy contracted 0.2 percent in the second
quarter after stalling in the previous three months as
governments stepped up budget cuts, undermining consumer and
company spending. While crude  oil prices  have increased about 12
percent over the past two months, the  European Central Bank  in
July cut borrowing costs to a record low, with President  Mario Draghi  on  Aug. 2  calling inflation risks broadly balanced.  “Overall, there are no inflation threats for the euro
region given the economic environment,” said Christian Melzer,
an economist at Dekabank in Frankfurt. “The economy will
continue to shrink in the third and fourth quarters, weighing on
prices. We expect another  interest rate  cut in September.”  Euro-area consumer prices fell 0.5 percent from the
previous month, when they dropped 0.1 percent, the statistics
office said. In the 27-nation EU, inflation held at 2.5 percent.
Inflation slowed in 12  member states , remained stable in one and
quickened in 14, the statistics office said.  Easing Inflation  The ECB’s quarterly survey of professional forecasters
showed last week that euro-area inflation may average 2.3
percent this year before weakening to 1.7 percent in 2013. The
central bank aims to keep inflation just below 2 percent.  Signs of a deepening economic slump may leave companies
with less room to pass on higher prices, forcing them to focus
on cost cuts instead. The euro-area  unemployment rate  held at a
record 11.2 percent in June.  RWE AG (RWE) , Germany’s second-largest
utility, said Aug. 14 it will cut 2,400 jobs to lower costs.  Adding to signs of easing cost pressures across Europe,
producer-price inflation slowed to 1.8 percent in June from 2.3
percent in the previous month. In Germany, Europe’s largest
economy, producer prices probably increased 1.2 percent in July
from a year earlier after rising 1.6 percent in the previous
month, a  survey of economists  shows ahead of tomorrow’s release.  ‘Appropriate Modalities’  The ECB on Aug. 2 kept its  benchmark interest rate  at 0.75
percent and said it’s ready to purchase  government bonds  in
tandem with the region’s rescue funds to fight the fiscal
crisis. Draghi said the ECB will design the “appropriate
modalities” over the coming weeks.  Simon Grose-Hodge, head of investment strategy for  Asia  at
LGT Group Ltd. in Singapore, said the announcement may pave the
way for a “much larger scale of bond buying.”  “The comments from Draghi seem to suggest that there’s a
new combined effort coming along between EU officials and the
ECB,” Grose-Hodge told Rishaad Salamat on Bloomberg
Television’s “On the Move Asia” on Aug. 15. “We know it may
take many months for them to put it together and often we have
to sit through a lot of delays but it does seem to be a
significant change in the language Draghi is putting out.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  