-- Euro Hits 6-Week High; Merkel Shows Support for ECB Plan
-- B y   S h a r o n   C h e n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-08-17T06:43:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/euro-set-for-week-as-merkel-signals-support-for-debt-plan.html
The euro rose to a six-week high
versus the yen as Germany signaled its support for a  European
Central Bank  approach to resolve the debt crisis.  The shared currency is set to complete five-day gains
against all 16 of its major counterparts before German
Chancellor Angela Merkel meets French President  Francois Hollande  on Aug. 23 and Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras a
day later. The yen headed for its biggest weekly loss in almost
two months versus the greenback as the extra yield investors
receive from U.S. securities over Japanese debt climbed.
Singapore’s dollar weakened as exports rose at a slower pace.  “We’re starting to see the early signs of some real
progress being made in the euro area,” said  Andrew Salter , a
currency strategist in Sydney at  Australia & New Zealand Banking
Group Ltd. (ANZ)  “We do see the euro rebounding modestly over the
next few months.”  The euro gained 0.1 percent to 98.18 yen as of 7:23 a.m. in
London, after touching 98.19, the most since July 6. It was at
$1.2362 after rising 0.5 percent to $1.2356 in New York. Japan’s
currency fetched 79.41 per dollar from 79.35 yesterday, after
touching 79.43, the weakest since July 12.  The euro is set to gain 0.6 percent against the dollar this
week. The yen headed for a 1.4 percent loss versus the
greenback, its biggest drop since the five days ended June 22.  Berlin Meetings  Merkel is due to host Hollande, Agence France-Presse
reported, one day before Samaras visits Berlin for talks.
Italian media reported that Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is due in
the German capital on Aug. 29, while Spanish Prime Minister
 Mariano Rajoy  has said that Merkel will visit Madrid on Sept. 6.  “Obviously time is pressing” on stamping out the debt
crisis, though “on many of these issues we feel we’re on the
right track,” Merkel told reporters in Ottawa yesterday at a
joint press conference with Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper . Euro-area policy makers “feel committed to do
everything we can to maintain the common currency.”  Asked about ECB chief  Mario Draghi ’s announcement that the
bank may return to sovereign bond buying, Merkel said recent ECB
decisions “have made it clear that the European Central Bank is
counting on political action in the form of conditionality as
the precondition for a positive development of the euro.”  The euro has lost 4.5 percent over the past three months,
the worst performer alongside the Swiss franc among the 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The yen declined 1.8 percent and the dollar
slid 1.6 percent.  Yield Gap  The  difference  between yields on two-year U.S. Treasuries
and similar maturity Japanese  government bonds  was 20 basis
points today, the most since July 3. Five-year  U.S. government
debt  offered a  premium  of 58 basis points over comparable JGBs,
up from this year’s low of 36 basis points.  “The interest-rate differential is a key driver of the
dollar-yen  exchange rate ,” ANZ’s Salter said. “As it appears
that pockets of the  U.S. economy  are doing better, in particular
the housing sector, the bias is for Treasuries to weaken. That
should put pressure on the yen.”  The yen may fall to 85 per dollar in the next three months,
 Masafumi Yamamoto , chief foreign-exchange strategist for Japan
at Barclays Plc in Tokyo, said in an interview yesterday. This
is mainly because the U.S. economy bottomed out in the second
quarter and will pick up momentum in the fourth, he said.  Fed Policy  Sales of existing U.S. homes probably  rose  to a 4.5 million
annual rate in July from a 4.37 million pace in June, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a report by the National Association of Realtors due Aug.
22. Housing starts fell 1.1 percent to a 746,000 annual rate
last month from June’s 754,000 pace, Commerce Department figures
showed yesterday.  Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis President Narayana Kocherlakota said he believes the  Federal Open Market Committee 
has gone too far by pledging to hold the main  interest rate  near
zero at least through late 2014.  “I would not have chosen to put that date as far out as
the committee has chosen,” Kocherlakota said in response to an
audience question after a speech in Williston, North Dakota.  U.S. central-bank officials refrained from boosting
monetary stimulus at the conclusion of their last meeting on
Aug. 1. The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury
debt from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing to cap borrowing costs. Policy makers have held the
bank’s key rate in a range of zero to 0.25 percent since 2008
and plan to keep it there at least through late 2014.  Dollar Index  The Dollar Index may be set rise toward 84.10 after finding
support at 82.04 earlier this month,  Axel Rudolph , a senior
analyst at Commerzbank AG in London, wrote in a note to clients
yesterday. Support refers to an area on a chart where orders to
buy may be clustered.  The gauge, which  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  uses to
track the greenback against the currencies of six U.S. trading
partners, last reached 84.10 on July 24. The index was little
changed from yesterday at 82.41.  Singapore’s currency weakened versus its U.S. counterpart,
heading for a second-straight weekly drop, after government data
showed  exports  climbed 5.8 percent in July from a year earlier,
compared with a revised 6.6 percent gain in the previous month.
The  Singapore dollar  fell 0.2 percent to S$1.2525, extending
this week’s decline to 0.7 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sharon Chen in  Singapore  at 
 schen462@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  