-- Mexico Economy Weakened Less Than Forecast in Second Quarter
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-08-16T15:36:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/mexico-economic-expansion-weakens-as-u-s-growth-slows-correct-.html
Mexico ’s economic growth slowed less
than analysts forecast in the second quarter as auto exports
climbed to a record, helping offset a downturn in shipments of
some manufactured goods and oil.  Gross domestic product expanded 0.9 percent from the first
quarter, an annualized rate of 3.5 percent and down from a
revised 1.2 percent in the first three months, the statistics
agency said today on its website. That beat the 0.7 percent
median estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Economic growth in the U.S., the buyer of 80 percent of
 Mexico’s exports , slowed to a 1.5 percent annual rate in the
second quarter amid unemployment that has held above 8 percent
for more than three years. While Mexico’s expansion slowed from
the fastest annual pace since 2010 on the weaker U.S. expansion,
growth has topped  Brazil ’s for the past year. The central bank
said last month that  monetary policy  is adequate with the
economy on a positive trajectory.  “We see less growth in the manufacturing sector due to
lower growth in the  U.S. economy , but we believe this is a good
figure overall,”  Rafael Camarena , an economist at  Banco
Santander SA (SAN) , said by phone from Mexico City. “If the U.S.
economy grows at least two percent this year and a similar
figure for 2013, the Mexican economy could see a good
performance probably close to four percent this year.”  Mexico’s annual growth will slow to 2.9 percent in the
third quarter before rising to 3.1 percent in the final three
months of the year, according to the median estimates in a
Bloomberg survey.  June Growth  The statistics agency, known as Inegi, also said today that
the economy expanded 3.79 percent in June from a year earlier as
measured by the global economic indicator, less than the 3.9
percent median estimate of 15 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Annual growth in GDP eased to 4.1 percent in the second
quarter from a revised 4.5 percent in the first quarter, missing
the 4.3 percent average analyst estimate, Inegi said.  Mexico’s peso erased its advance after the release of the
economic reports, remaining little changed at 13.1366 per dollar
at 10:34 a.m. in Mexico City.  Earnings for Mexican companies such as  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) 
and  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  reflected the slowdown in demand.
Homex, Mexico’s largest homebuilder by sales, has cut its 2012
revenue projection, while Femsa, Latin America’s biggest Coke
bottler, reported second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’
estimates.  Interest Rates  The central bank may be limited in its ability to cut
 interest rates  to boost growth after annual inflation breached
its 2 percent to 4 percent target range in June and reached a
28-month high of 4.42 percent in July as a bird flu outbreak and
drought drove up farm prices.  Mexico’s central bank has kept the nation’s benchmark rate
at 4.5 percent since July 2009, the lowest level among major
rate-setting banks in  Latin America  after  Peru .  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in a July 26
interview that the effects of higher food prices will be
temporary and isolated, and that Mexico’s stability will enable
the economy to outpace Brazil’s expansion in coming years.  The chances of a “severe weakening” in the global economy
have caused medium-term inflation risks to abate and the growth
outlook to worsen, according to the central bank’s last rate
decision on July 20.  Export Growth  Mexican exports  grew 3.8 percent in the second quarter from
the same period a year earlier, down from 11.6 percent in the
first three months of 2012, according to the statistics
institute. Oil exports fell 14 percent from a year earlier as
crude prices dropped from a nine-month high in February to an
eight-month low in June, according to calculations based on
statistics institute data. Growth in shipments of non-auto
manufactured goods slowed to 7.1 percent in the second quarter
from 7.4 percent in the first, data from the agency showed.  Still, auto exports rose to a record during the first half
of the year, the Mexican Automobile Industry Association said on
July 10.  Signs of slowing growth haven’t fazed investors in Latin
America’s second-largest economy. Mexico’s peso has rallied 6.1
percent this year, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Stock Market High  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of  U.S. Treasuries  dropped 63 basis points
to 159 this year through yesterday, according to  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) ’s EMBI Global Index. The yield on Mexican local-currency
bonds due in 2024 fell to a record low on July 20 and slid 113
basis points, or 1.13 percentage points, this year through
yesterday. The nation’s  IPC stock index  has climbed 9.5 percent
this year, reaching an all-time high on July 27.  Mexico’s economy probably will feel the impact of a global
economic slowdown more in coming months as spending projects
that were ramped up before the nation’s July 1 presidential
election came to an end, said Sergio Martin of HSBC Mexico SA.  “We’re seeing a slight downturn in external demand,”
Martin, HSBC’s chief Mexico economist, said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “We expect this slowdown to become
more drastic in the third and fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 