-- Mexican Economic Growth Probably Slowed as U.S. Expansion Cooled
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-08-16T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/mexican-economic-growth-probably-slowed-as-u-s-expansion-cooled.html
Mexico ’s economic growth probably
slowed in the second quarter to about half its pace in the prior
three months as exports of oil and some manufactured goods
weakened amid a downturn in the  U.S. economy .  Gross domestic product expanded 0.7 percent from the first
quarter, when it grew 1.3 percent, according to the median
estimate of seven economists surveyed by Bloomberg. Annual
growth eased to 4.3 percent from 4.6 percent over the same
period, analysts forecast. The national statistics institute
will release the figures at 8 a.m. in Mexico City.  Economic growth in the U.S., which buys 80 percent of
 Mexico’s exports , slowed to a 1.5 percent annual rate in the
second quarter amid unemployment that has held above 8 percent
for more than three years. While Mexico’s expansion may have
slowed from the fastest pace since 2010, growth has topped
 Brazil ’s the past four quarters. The central bank said last
month that  monetary policy  is adequate with the economy on a
positive trajectory.  “We’re seeing a moderation in the manufacturing cycle from
previous quarters,” Gabriel Lozano, chief Mexico economist at
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) , said by phone from Mexico City. “It’s not
something we should be too worried about, and it’s in line with
a decrease in dynamism in the  United States .”  Annual growth will slow to 2.9 percent in the third quarter
before rising to 3.1 percent in the final three months of the
year, according to the median estimates in a Bloomberg survey.  Company Earnings  Earnings for Mexican companies such as  Coca-Cola Femsa SAB (KOFL) 
and  Desarrolladora Homex SAB (HOMEX*)  reflected the slowdown in demand.
Homex, Mexico’s largest homebuilder by sales, has cut its 2012
revenue projection, while Femsa, Latin America’s biggest Coke
bottler, reported second-quarter profit that trailed analysts’
estimates.  The central bank may be limited in its ability to cut
 interest rates  to boost growth after annual inflation breached
its 2 percent to 4 percent target range in June and reached a
28-month high of 4.42 percent in July as a bird flu outbreak and
drought drove up farm prices.  Mexico’s central bank has kept the nation’s benchmark rate
at 4.5 percent since July 2009, the lowest level among major
rate-setting banks in Latin America after  Peru .  Central bank Governor Agustin Carstens said in a July 26
interview that the effects of higher food prices will be
temporary and isolated, and that Mexico’s stability will enable
the economy to outpace Brazil’s expansion in coming years.  Easing Inflation Risk  The chances of a “severe weakening” in the global economy
have caused medium-term inflation risks to abate and the growth
outlook to worsen, according to the central bank’s last rate
decision on July 20.  Mexican exports  grew 3.8 percent in the second quarter from
the same period a year earlier, down from 11.6 percent in the
first three months of 2012, according to the statistics
institute. Oil exports fell 14 percent from a year earlier as
crude prices dropped from a nine-month high in February to an
eight-month low in June, according to calculations based on
statistics institute data. Growth in shipments of non-auto
manufactured goods slowed to 7.1 percent in the second quarter
from 7.4 percent in the first, data from the agency showed.  Signs of slowing growth haven’t fazed investors in  Latin
America ’s second-largest economy. Mexico’s peso has rallied 6.1
percent this year, the most among 16 major currencies tracked by
Bloomberg.  Bond Yields  The  extra yield  investors demand to own Mexican government
dollar bonds instead of U.S. Treasuries dropped 63 basis points
to 159 this year through yesterday, according to JPMorgan Chase
& Co.’s EMBI Global Index. The yield on Mexican local-currency
bonds due in 2024 fell to a record low on July 20 and slid 113
basis points, or 1.13 percentage points, this year through
yesterday. The nation’s  IPC stock index  has climbed 10 percent
this year, reaching an all-time high on July 27.  Mexico’s economy probably will feel the impact of a global
economic slowdown more in coming months as spending projects
that were ramped up before the nation’s July 1 presidential
election came to an end, said Sergio Martin of HSBC.  “We’re seeing a slight downturn in external demand,”
Martin, HSBC’s chief Mexico economist, said in a telephone
interview from Mexico City. “We expect this slowdown to become
more drastic in the third and fourth quarter.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Eric Martin  in Mexico City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net . 