-- Facebook Lockup Ending Triggers Yandex Rally: Russia Overnight
-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 2012-08-16T22:09:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/facebook-lockup-ending-triggers-yandex-rally-russia-overnight.html
Yandex NV (YNDX)  jumped the most in five
months in New York trading on speculation investors selling
Facebook Inc.’s stock at the end of a lockup period will move
proceeds into stocks of  Russia ’s biggest Internet search engine.  Shares of the Hague-based company surged 6.6 percent to
$21.46 yesterday, leading gains on the  Bloomberg Russia-US
Equity Index (RUS14BN)  of the most-traded Russian stocks listed in the
U.S. The measure climbed 0.1 percent to 94.96.  RTS stock-index
futures  expiring in September added 0.8 percent to 143,905. OAO
Gazprom, the country’s natural-gas export monopoly, increased to
a three-month high after oil rose above $95 a barrel for the
first time in three months.  While Facebook, the biggest social network website,
disappointed investors on July 26 by reporting slowing sales
growth in the second quarter, Yandex reiterated five days later
that it  expects  sales to increase as much as 45 percent this
year. Yandex, which gets most of its revenue from online ads,
said it benefits from a quickening economic expansion in Russia,
the world’s largest energy exporter.  “Investors want to see cash and feel it in their pockets,
that’s why they sell  Facebook (FB)  and buy Yandex,” Iouli Matevossov, a senior analyst at  Alfa Bank , said by phone from
Moscow yesterday. “The Russian company proved to be good at
showing growth in terms of very real cash as opposed to
Facebook.”  ‘Good at Making Money’  The  Market Vectors Russia ETF (RSX) , the biggest U.S.-traded fund
that holds Russian shares, increased 0.9 percent to $28.02, the
highest level since May 3. The RTS Volatility Index, which
measures expected swings in  stock futures , dropped 2.1 percent
to 29.05.  Yandex said on July 31 that second-quarter net income,
before adjustments to additional taxes, rose 76 percent to 1.98
billion rubles ($61.5 million). Revenue expanded 50 percent in
the first half of the year from the same period a year ago.  Facebook plunged to a record low of $19.87 yesterday after
freeing up an additional 271.1 million shares, boosting by 60
percent the number available to trade.  The  Menlo Park , California-based company,  worth  about $48
billion, has lost more than $40 billion in market value since
the offering, making it the worst performer among all large IPOs
on record, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The company
reported  sales growth  of 32 percent in the second quarter from
the year-ago period, down from 45 percent in the first quarter
and 55 percent in the fourth quarter.  “Yandex is very good at making money from their users,
while Facebook is yet to learn how to do it,” Matevossov said.
“Facebook is good at getting users, not money.”  Largest Oil Producer  Russia, the world’s largest oil producer outside of the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, received about
half of its 2011 budget revenue from sales of oil and natural
gas, according to the government data.  Russia’s  gross domestic product  rose 4 percent in the
second quarter, compared with a 3.4 percent growth in the second
quarter of 2011, the Federal Statistics Service in Moscow said
on Aug. 10.  Oil for September delivery rose for a third day, gaining
1.3 percent to $95.60 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  yesterday. The price reached $95.75, the highest
intraday level since May 14.  Spain  is about to receive an emergency disbursement from
the 100 billion-euro ($123 billion) bailout of its financial
system because of restrictions the  European Central Bank  imposed
on bank borrowing, according to a person familiar with the
matter.  “The market is supported by stronger oil,” Yan Gloukhovski, a trader at Alfa  Capital Markets  in  London , said by
e-mail yesterday. In order to sustain the growth, “we need more
certainty on  Europe , especially in relation to Spain’s decision
on whether to apply for rescue funds,” he said.  Gazprom Gains  American depositary receipts of Gazprom rose 1.6 percent to
$9.89 yesterday, the highest since May 11. Gazprom added 1.3
percent to 156.65 rubles, or $4.92 on the Micex. One ADR is
equal to two ordinary shares.  Gazprom links its prices to oil and refined products with a
time lag, a method that dates back to the 1970s, when the fuels
were more commonly used in power generation.  Brent for September settlement, which expired yesterday,
advanced 0.6 percent to $116.90 a barrel on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange.  Urals crude  rose 0.3 percent to $116.93
per barrel yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in  New York  at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  