-- FBI's New York Office Head to Retire After 25 Years
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-16T23:13:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/fbi-s-new-york-office-head-to-retire-after-25-years.html
Janice Fedarcyk, who heads the FBI’s
office in New York and is the highest-ranking female  law
enforcement  officer outside of Washington, will retire after 25
years as a federal agent, the agency said.  Fedarcyk, 54, became the first woman to serve as Assistant
Director in Charge of the New York office when she was appointed
in August 2010. During her tenure, she supervised investigations
including the largest-ever crackdown of insider-trading at hedge
funds.  The FBI’s New York office, the largest in the U.S. with
some 2,000 agents and staff, has worked with federal prosecutors
in Manhattan to target insider trading by portfolio managers,
analysts and employees of technology companies.  At least 70 people have been charged with insider trading
since August 2009, and 66 have either pleaded guilty or been
convicted at a trial in federal court in New York, according to
prosecutors. Other cases are pending.  On June 15, former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  director  Rajat Gupta  was convicted of leaking tips to his former business
partner, Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is now
serving 11 years in prison for insider trading.  Agents working under Fedarcyk have also investigated
organized crime, computer hacking and terrorism.  Fedarcyk began her career in law enforcement at the Reno,
Nevada, police department. She joined the Federal Bureau of
Investigation in 1987 as a special agent in Los Angeles, where
she investigated drug trafficking.  Fedarcyk will open a security consulting business in
Washington after she retires Aug. 24, the FBI said in its
statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  