-- GameStop Rises After Increasing Quarterly Dividend by 67%
-- B y   R o b   G o l u m
-- 2012-08-16T20:09:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/gamestop-profit-tumbles-as-game-consumers-spend-online.html
GameStop Corp. (GME) , the largest video-
game retailer, rose 5.5 percent after the company boosted its
dividend by 67 percent and said it will buy back more stock
following a drop in second-quarter earnings.  GameStop, based in Grapevine,  Texas , rose to $17.98 at the
close in  New York . The shares have dropped 16 percent in the 12
months amid declining sales as video-game users reduced spending
on stores and shopped online.  The quarterly dividend will increase to 25 cents a share,
from 15 cents, giving the stock an indicated yield of 5.6
percent, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. GameStop plans
to return essentially all of its free  cash flow  to shareholders
in the future, executives said today on a  conference call .  “We don’t see anything significant on the short-term
horizon that’s going to change our approach to capital
allocation,” Chief Financial Officer Robert A. Lloyd said on
the call. “So you can expect that we’ll continue to return 100
percent-ish of our free cash flow to shareholders.”  The company has about $300 million left on a share
repurchase authorization and plans to “continue to be active in
the stock-buyback market going forward,” Lloyd said.  The shares may also be advancing on prospects for the new
Wii U game machine from Nintendo Co., according to  Michael Pachter , an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in Los Angeles
who has an outperform, or buy, recommendation on the stock.  Second-quarter net income slid to $21 million, or 16 cents
a share, from $30.9 million, or 22 cents, a year ago, the
retailer said today in a  statement . Analysts expected 15 cents,
the average of estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Sales have slumped for five straight quarters, and the
company is expanding into resales and repairs of  Apple Inc. (AAPL) 
products to add revenue. Revenue in the quarter ended July 28
fell 11 percent to $1.55 billion, hurt by a lack of new game
releases, GameStop said. Analysts projected $1.6 billion.  U.S. retail sales of video-game hardware, software and
accessories fell 20 percent in July to $548.4 million,
researcher NPD Group Inc. said this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  