-- Gap Quarterly Profit Rises 29% to Beat Analyst Estimates
-- B y   S a p n a   M a h e s h w a r i
-- 2012-08-17T14:05:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/gap-quarterly-profit-rises-29-to-beat-analyst-estimates.html
Gap Inc. (GPS) , the largest U.S.
specialty-apparel retailer, reported a 29 percent rise in
quarterly profit that topped analyst estimates, aided by
domestic sales, and raised its full-year earnings forecast.  Net income for the quarter ended in July rose to $243
million, or 49 cents a share, from $189 million, or 35 cents, a
year earlier, the San Francisco-based company said yesterday in
a statement. The average analysts’ projection was for 48 cents a
share, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg. The company had
forecast a range of 47 cents to 48 cents on Aug. 2.  Gap’s stock had the fourth-biggest  increase  on the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index this year, as new merchandise and marketing
at its namesake brand in  North America  drove the best first half
of  same-store  sales since 2003. Second-quarter sales rose 5.6
percent to $3.58 billion, the best in five years, driven by Gap
and  Banana Republic  brands in North America, the company said
earlier this month.  Gap is managing its inventory better and using fewer
discounts and promotions, which bodes well for the second half
of the year,  Jennifer Davis , an analyst at Lazard Capital
Markets in  New York  with a buy rating on the stock, wrote in an
e-mail. “The full-year guidance is conservative,” she wrote.  Fiscal full-year profit may be $1.95 to $2 a share, the
company said, up from a previous forecast in May of $1.78 to
$1.83. The average estimate of 26 analysts was $2.08 a share.  ‘Solid Results’  The shares rose 4.1 percent to $35.74 at 9:59 a.m. New York
time. The stock had risen 85 percent this year through
yesterday.  “The increased focus on product and marketing continues to
resonate with consumers and will continue to drive solid
results,” Randal Konik, a New York-based analyst at  Jefferies
Group Inc. (JEF)  with a buy rating on the stock, wrote in a note
before the report. Konik said he anticipates fall and holiday
designs to improve further from successful spring merchandise.  Analysts have been viewing Gap’s sales success as the start
of a turnaround, with new talent at the company’s Gap, Old Navy
and Banana Republic brands working to regain sales from rivals
like J. Crew Group Inc. and  Hennes & Mauritz AB. (HMB)   Gap said earlier this week it hired U.S. designer Narciso Rodriguez as an adviser for Banana Republic, which Konik wrote
“is yet another data point showing the elevated fashion at Gap
Inc.’s brands.” Earlier this year, the company hired back J.
Crew executive Tracy Gardner for a similar role at Gap and Jill Stanton, former vice president of global apparel at  Nike Inc. (NKE) ,
to advise at Old Navy.  ‘Positive Momentum’  “Customers responded well to our product offerings across
our brands,” Chief Executive Officer  Glenn Murphy  said in the
statement. “Our continued focus on product and store execution
are helping to drive positive momentum and we’re committed to
sustaining solid performance for the remainder of the year.”  Marketing expenses rose to $147 million in the quarter, a
$33 million increase from last year, primarily driven by
investments in the Gap brand, the company said. Operating margin
will be about 11 percent for the year, up from the 10 percent
guidance in May, according to the statement.  Inventory dollars per store fell 6 percent at the end of
the second quarter and the company said it expects inventory
dollars per store to be down in the “low single digits” at the
end of the third quarter compared with the year-earlier period.  Comparable store sales rose 4 percent in the quarter, and
in July, sales by the same measure jumped 10 percent.  Gap slid 16 percent in 2011 when sales fell to a three-year
low, as the retailer was plagued by a surge in cotton prices and
missteps including a failed marketing campaign at its  Old Navy 
division.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sapna Maheshwari in New York at 
 sapnam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  