-- Glaxo’s Experimental Drug Halves Asthma Attacks in Study
-- B y   M a k i k o   K i t a m u r a
-- 2012-08-16T22:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/glaxo-s-experimental-drug-halves-asthma-attacks-in-study.html
Patients with a rare form of asthma
who took an experimental  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  drug experienced
almost half the rate of attacks compared with those who took a
placebo, according to a company-funded study.  Among 621 participants with severe asthma, after a year of
treatment, the rate of attacks requiring oral corticosteroids,
emergency room visits or hospitalizations was about half for
those taking one of three monthly doses of the drug, called
mepolizumab, compared with those on placebo, according to a
study at the U.K.’s University Hospitals of Leicester NHS. The
research was published today in the Lancet medical journal.  The treatment targets the 4 percent of asthma patients who
experience attacks even after taking high doses of existing
medicines. Mepolizumab works by blocking the production of
eosinophils, a type of blood cell that causes inflammation of
lung airways.  “These effects are very promising and give hope to many
patients for whom no effective drugs are available without
significant adverse events,” Simone Hashimoto and Elisabeth Bel
from the University of Amsterdam said in a comment accompanying
the article.  While mepolizumab was effective in reducing exacerbations,
it failed to produce improvements in symptoms or lung function,
the study authors said. This observed dissociation between day-
to-day symptoms and the risk of asthma attacks implies that
different strategies are needed to manage the separate aspects
of the disease, they said.  Three patients died during the study, though the deaths
weren’t related to treatment, the researchers said.  Glaxo plans to continue studying the drug and will begin
late-stage trials by the end of the year, the London-based
drugmaker said in an e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Makiko Kitamura in London at 
 mkitamura1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kristen Hallam at 
 khallam@bloomberg.net  