-- Gold CEO Departures Fastest in Decade on Stock
-- B y   L i e z e l   H i l l
-- 2012-08-16T22:19:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/gold-ceo-departures-fastest-in-decade-on-stock.html
Canada ’s biggest gold miners are
replacing their senior executives at the fastest rate in at
least a decade as shareholders demand greater returns.  Five of the top 20 Canadian gold producers by market value,
including world leader  Barrick Gold Corp. (ABX) ,  Kinross Gold Corp. (K) 
and  Centerra Gold Inc. (CG) , have named new chief executive officers
in 2012.  The shakeup comes as the Philadelphia Stock Exchange Gold &
Silver 30-member companies index fell 11 percent this year,
compared with a 0.7 percent gain for the benchmark Toronto Stock
Exchange Index. The precious metals barometer has reached its
lowest level relative to the price of gold in 28 years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Gold equities are underperforming after “huge” project
cost overruns and dilutive acquisitions by producers, said Rob McEwen, chief executive officer of McEwen Mining Inc.  “There’s a skepticism that whatever a company says isn’t
actually going to happen,” the founder and former CEO of
 Goldcorp Inc. (G)  said in a phone interview Aug. 10 from Toronto.
“It’s going to be over budget, behind schedule and it’s not
going to deliver on the promise. That seems to be a mentality
that’s taking root among investors and the biggest companies are
just bright neon signs about the dangers.”  Disappointing Performance  Barrick announced June 6 it had appointed Chief Financial
Officer Jamie Sokalsky to replace CEO Aaron Regent, after the
Toronto-based company was “disappointed” by its share price
performance. Kinross Gold Corp., Canada’s third-largest producer
by sales, said Aug. 1 that J. Paul Rollinson, the company’s vice
president of corporate development, had been promoted to CEO,
replacing Tye Burt. Kinross, based in Toronto, said at the time
the change of leadership was needed to guide the company through
capital allocation and project development improvements.  Other producers to replace CEOs this year include St.
Laurent, Quebec-based  Semafo Inc. (SMF) , a miner with operations in
West Africa, which said Aug. 8 that Benoit La Salle, who ran the
company since it was founded in 1995, would become executive
vice-chairman and be replaced by Chief Operating Officer Benoit Desormeaux. Centerra Gold Inc., based in Toronto, appointed Ian
Atkinson, the senior vice-president for global exploration, CEO
from May 17. He replaced Steve Lang, who became chairman.  The latest announcement was from Great Basin Gold Ltd., a
producer with mines in  South Africa  and  Nevada , which said
yesterday CEO Ferdi Dippenaar had resigned and the company was
facing “liquidity challenges” and had started a strategic
review. CFO Lou Van Vuuren was appointed interim CEO.  Breaking Point  Board-led management changes are a reaction to years of
underperformance by North American producers compared with the
gold price and companies’ failure to meet targets on project
budgets and assets they acquire,  Jorge Beristain , an analyst at
Deutsche Bank AG in Greenwich, CT, said in a Aug. 2 note.  “Lack of capital discipline and stock underperformance has
reached a breaking point in the mining sector and we expect
further management changes to come,” Beristain said.  Andy Lloyd , a spokesman for Barrick, declined to comment.
 Steve Mitchell , a spokesman for Kinross, said he wouldn’t add to
Chairman John Oliver’s Aug. 9 remarks on a conference call that
the company is looking for a new approach. Centerra CEO Atkinson
also declined to comment beyond a March 14 statement that
announced the company’s succession plan. Semafo spokeswoman
Sofia St Laurent could not be reached for comment.  Institutional Pressure  Gold miners had been in a “scramble” to add reserves and
boost production amid sharply rising gold prices, and are
shifting their focus to cost containment and share-price
performance, said Thomas Caldwell, who oversees about $1 billion
as chairman and CEO of Toronto-based Caldwell Securities Ltd.  “There is some institutional pressure on these companies
to really get these stocks performing on a better level,”
Caldwell said in an Aug. 14 phone interview.  Centerra, which operates a mine in the Kyrgyz Republic, has
the worst return this year of 17 Canadian gold miners larger
than $1 billion, having declined 62 percent in Toronto this
year, compared with a 3.2 percent increase in gold futures.
Barrick dropped 23 percent and Kinross 29 percent over the same
period.  “When equities underperform, CEOs are held to account, or
should be held to account,” Ron Stewart, a Toronto-based
analyst at Dundee Securities Ltd., said in a phone interview
yesterday.  Most Active  Agnico-Eagle Mines Ltd. (AEM) , led by CEO Sean Boyd for the last
14 years, is the best performer this year, having risen 22
percent after a 52 percent drop in 2011. The company said in
October it suspended operations at its Goldex mine in  Quebec 
because of ground instability and flooding. Boyd is the longest
tenured chief of a large Canadian gold producer.  Agnico has “dramatically outperformed the senior gold
producers over the last 20 years, with the exception of last
year,” Dale Coffin, a spokesman for Agnico-Eagle, said by phone
yesterday.  Chuck Jeannes, CEO of Goldcorp, was promoted from executive
vice president of corporate development from January 2009. Since
then, Goldcorp has risen 4.4 percent. The company, which raised
its 2012 cost forecasts and lowered output projections last
month because of difficulties at mines in Canada and  Mexico ,
said Aug. 8 it had appointed George Burns COO to replace Steve
Reid, who’s leaving to pursue other interests.  Peter Marrone, CEO and founder of Yamana Gold Inc., the
third-largest Canadian gold miner by market value, has been in
the position since July 2003, while Vancouver-based Eldorado
Gold Corp. appointed Paul Wright CEO in October 1999. In the
past 24 months, Yamana has gained 48 percent while Eldorado has
declined 39 percent.  More Scope  Spokeswomen for Yamana and Eldorado and a spokesman for
Goldcorp didn’t return phone calls and e-mails seeking comment.  This year’s shakeups at large Canadian gold producers
compare with just one CEO replacement in 2011, when Aurizon
Mines Ltd. appointed George Paspalas to replace  David Hall , and
three CEO appointments in 2010. With more than four months still
remaining, the five announcements by top-20 Canadian gold miners
make it already the most active year in at least a decade,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “There’s probably more scope for more changes in the
sector,” Stewart said. “Investors are increasingly frustrated
with companies” that miss their own forecasts, he said. “I
wouldn’t be surprised if that continues to happen, that more
CEOs will find themselves in the pogey queue,” he said using
slang for unemployment insurance benefits.  Not all the CEO changes in the sector this year were
related to their share price. Aurico Gold Inc. said last month
CEO Rene Marion would resign for health reasons on Sept. 3. and
be replaced by CFO Scott Perry.  Companies may have opted to promote from within rather than
hiring externally so that the new CEOs are already familiar with
the assets, Caldwell said.  “You’ve got to be very careful when you are changing
horses running mining companies,” he said. “Every mining
company and every ore-body is so specific that you develop a
skill set that is almost proprietary.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liezel Hill in Toronto at 
 lhill30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at 
 scasey4@bloomberg.net  