-- Goldman Sachs’s Brafman Said to Leave Firm After 11 Years
-- B y   L i s a   A b r a m o w i c z   a n d   S t e p h a n i e   R u h l e
-- 2012-08-16T20:18:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/goldman-sachs-s-brafman-said-to-leave-firm-after-11-years.html
Lester R. Brafman, a managing
director in the high-yield debt sales and trading department at
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , left this week after 11 years at the
firm, according to five people familiar with the matter.  Brafman, 50, joined New York-based Goldman Sachs in 2001
after six years at Credit Suisse First Boston Inc., according to
records maintained by the Financial Industry Regulatory
Authority. He previously worked at Wasserstein Perella
Securities Inc. and Lehman Brothers Inc., the records show.  Brafman ran high-yield debt trading at Credit Suisse and
had a similar role after joining Goldman Sachs. He’s been a
Goldman Sachs managing director, the second-highest rank at the
firm, after partner, since 2003.  Goldman Sachs, which generated 58 percent of first-half
revenue from sales and trading, eliminated 20 to 30 jobs in that
division this week, a person familiar with the matter said
yesterday. The firm last month reported its lowest first-half
revenue since 2005 and said it would cut $500 million from
costs, on top of $1.4 billion in savings already achieved.  Sales of high-yield debt in the U.S. have already set a
record for August as companies tap into an unprecedented $44.9
billion of cash that has poured into funds that buy junk bonds
in 2012. Yields that are near record lows and a slowdown in
earnings growth have sparked concern that the market for the
debt has peaked.  Michael DuVally , a spokesman at Goldman Sachs, declined to
comment on Brafman’s departure.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lisa Abramowicz in New York at 
 labramowicz@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephanie Ruhle  in New York at 
 sruhle2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Alan Goldstein  at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net 
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 