-- Greedy Hedge Funder Revives Gekko in ‘Supercapitalist’
-- B y   F r e d e r i k   B a l f o u r
-- 2012-08-17T00:09:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/greedy-hedge-funder-revives-gekko-in-supercapitalist-.html
If movies were rated like debt,
“ Supercapitalist ” would be a junk bond. Cluttered with
cliches, unmemorable performances and a clunky script, this film
is no “ Wall Street ” or “ Margin Call .” Hyped as a financial
thriller, it’s unlikely to fare better than Facebook’s botched
IPO.  The movie opens with New York hedge-fund supremo  Mark
Patterson  ( Linus Roache  from “ Law & Order ”) telling potential
investors that Hong Kong is the world’s new financial frontier.
Hello? This is 2012, not 1992.  Roache evokes  Michael Douglas ’s Gordon Gekko, without the
hair gel. He talks about “the God-given right to make as much
money as you can,” and how hedge-fund managers “make events.”
As a master of the universe, he’s less than convincing.  Next we meet Patterson’s protege Conner Lee (Derek Ting), a
Chinese-American know-it-all with an uncanny ability to win
every gamble he takes, from sidewalk crap games to positions on
the next interest rate move by the  Federal Reserve . His mantra:
“If you aren’t gambling, you aren’t living.”  Patterson sends Lee to  Hong Kong  to orchestrate a high-
stakes deal involving Fei & Chang, a family-run conglomerate
whose stock price has taken a beating. Despite his Chinese
roots, Lee at first finds himself, like many Chinese-Americans,
terribly out of his depth in Hong Kong.  Financial Fratboys  Enter Quentin Wong ( Darren E. Scott ), a Eurasian working at
Lee’s firm, who teaches him how to work and live like a
supercapitalist, Hong Kong style. They drink. They do coke. They
spar in the gym. They get laid. They go to casinos. When they
aren’t behaving like frat boys, they punch out trades on their
Bloomberg terminals.  Reader alert: Bloomberg paid nothing for this product
placement, although it gave the film crew free access to our
Hong Kong office to shoot a couple of scenes.  Lee’s firm buys enough shares in the ailing company to
merit a seat on the board, where he is openly reviled as a brash
upstart by the family patriarch, ably played by veteran Hong
Kong actor  Richard Ng .  Kenneth Tsang  (“Die Another Day,”
“Rush Hour 2”) plays his brother and Number 2.  Then Lee meets Natalie Wang ( Kathy Uyen ), PR director at
Fei & Chang, who sees the good side of Lee before he does.
Despite the hackneyed dialogue -- “Every day you go out there,
you place bets, you take risks but can’t even take a gamble on
us” -- their romance blossoms. Together with a loyal corporate
lieutenant (Lester Chan) they uncover a plot that will undermine
both Lee’s own trades and the very future of the company.  Poison Pill  There’s a murder, and Lee gets beaten up, but ultimately he
unmasks the perpetrators of a secret poison pill inside his own
firm and at Fei & Chang in time to save the company and get the
girl.  Still, it takes far too long to reach the climax. Halfway
through the film, during one of the many scenes taking place in
an office high-rise, I found myself wishing Batman would come
crashing through a window to liven things up.  Ting, 36, who also wrote and produced the film, majored in
statistics at Cornell before taking a job as an actuary at
 Mercer Consulting (MMC)  in New York. After the Sept. 11, 2001
terrorist attacks, he decided to pursue acting. He started
making film shorts and moved to Hong Kong in 2005 to take a job
at  CNN .  Ting says he “didn’t grow up on indie art films,” and it
shows. Still, he’s to be lauded for producing something outside
Hong Kong’s clubby studio system.  Slick Look  The film was made for less than $500,000. Yet it looks as
slick as any studio film, a credit to director Simon Yin and
cinematographer Derrick Fong. And Ben Robinson’s original
soundtrack is terrific.  Though Ting says the film “won’t be such a capitalism-
driven thing,” there are probably enough people in finance --
with or without jobs -- who will want to see a movie about their
industry.  Once the movie opens in Hong Kong in October it may sell
enough tickets to break even, no mean feat for a first-time
filmmaker.  “Supercapitalist” premiered in the U.S. on Aug. 10 and
will open in Hong Kong in October. Rating: *  (Frederik Balfour is a reporter-at-large for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Martin Gayford  on art,  Lewis Lapham 
on history,  Zinta Lundborg’s   New York  weekend and  Mark Beech  on
arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Frederik Balfour, in Hong Kong, at 
 fbalfour@bloomberg.net  or on Twitter @frederikbalfour.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 