-- Miami Options Exchange Moves Closer to Becoming 11th U.S. Venue
-- B y   N i n a   M e h t a   a n d   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t
-- 2012-08-16T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/miami-options-exchange-moves-closer-to-becoming-11th-u-s-venue.html
The Miami  International Securities
Exchange ’s planned U.S. options venue will compete for orders by
giving priority to market makers that meet certain quoting
requirements, according to its application to regulators.  MIAX, as the proposed exchange is called, may become the
11th U.S. venue to trade equity options if the Securities and
Exchange Commission approves its application  published 
yesterday. The exchange has been planned for several years and
its filing, submitted to the SEC in April, provides the first
detailed look into its trading plans and rules. The SEC is
seeking comment on the exchange as it considers approval.  The surge in electronic trading since 2000 has spurred more
competition among older exchanges and startups seeking to draw
trades through different pricing and rules for matching orders.
MIAX will compete for volume in the growing options market with
10 exchanges, including three run by  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
two each from  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  and  CBOE Holdings Inc. (CBOE)  in  Chicago .  “At this point there are 10 exchanges, so they’re going to
have to offer something quite unique to stand out,” Stephen Solaka, who oversees about $60 million including options as co-
founder of Belmont Capital Group in  Los Angeles , said in a phone
interview. “You need something highly differentiated and
proprietary to succeed as a new options exchange.”  Management Team  The exchange doesn’t yet have a president and chief
executive officer, according to its parent company, Princeton,
New Jersey-based Miami International Holdings Inc. Shelly Brown,
senior vice president for strategic planning and operations,
declined to comment on the exchange’s application.  The company’s executive chairman is  Thomas P. Gallagher , a
founding partner at Princeton-based law firm Gallagher, Briody &
Butler, which helps companies raise money. Douglas M. Schafer is
the chief information officer, Barbara Comly is general counsel
and Paul Warner is the chief financial officer. The chief
regulatory officer is Edward Deitzel.  The parent company will contribute at least $2 million to
the exchange before it begins operating and provide enough
capital for it to meet its regulatory and operational
requirements, MIAX’s  application  said. Information about the
company’s financing wasn’t immediately available.  The company had about 60 employees in September, more than
double the staff in April 2011, Brown said last year.  The electronic exchange’s planned start follows a ninth
straight year of record equity options activity in the U.S.,
with almost 4.6 billion contracts changing hands in 2011,
according to Chicago-based OCC.  12th Venue  A 12th venue is also planned. The International Securities
Exchange, which in 2000 became the first fully electronic U.S.
options market, plans a second venue. Molly McGregor, a
spokeswoman, said the New York-based company, owned by  Deutsche
Boerse AG (DB1)  in  Frankfurt , hopes to introduce its new platform by
the end of this year. The exchange must be approved by the SEC
before it can start trading.  The Miami exchange must offer novel features to attract
market makers and orders from brokers and asset managers already
trading with the established venues,  Andy Nybo , principal and
head of derivatives at New York-based Tabb Group LLC, said in a
telephone interview.  ‘Challenging Environment’  “Miami’s launch and other exchanges bringing new ways of
trading provide a challenging environment for market makers to
support the provision of liquidity across all of these
exchanges,” Nybo said. “At some point the ability to provide
liquidity will start to impact market makers and they simply
will pick and choose when and where they provide liquidity and
how they do it. It’s a tall order to have a presence over 10 or
more exchanges.”  MIAX  said  it will consider some bids and offers from market
makers to be “priority” quotes and others “non-priority”
quotes. Priority quotes, which must meet specified requirements,
would enable the market maker to gain precedence over certain
orders willing to buy or sell contracts at the same price, the
exchange said. The venue will allow three types of market makers
and let them use multiple types of quotes, the application said.  MIAX will match some incoming option orders with bids or
offers based on who was the first at a given price, called
price-time priority. Other contracts will use a pro-rata system,
where some firms will receive a bigger share of incoming trade
requests. Adjustments to these methodologies, already employed
on rival exchanges, will also be used, the company said.  “Simply tweaking a pricing model in a race to the bottom
isn’t enough,” Nybo said. “They need to bring functionalities
that improve current market practices.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nina Mehta in  New York  at 
 nmehta24@bloomberg.net ;
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  