-- IBM Plans to Make More Storage Purchases After Texas Memory
-- B y   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-08-17T21:03:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/ibm-plots-more-storage-acquisitions-after-texas-memory-purchase.html
International Business Machines
Corp. (IBM) , following a deal to buy Texas Memory Systems Inc., vowed
to continue its five-year shopping spree by acquiring more
companies in the storage industry.  IBM announced the purchase yesterday of closely held Texas
Memory, a designer of  flash memory , without disclosing terms.
The goal is to provide a more complete storage system than
competitors by assembling the components through purchases of
smaller companies, said Bob Cancilla, vice president for storage
systems at Armonk, New York-based IBM.  “It’s not the end of our acquisition phase,” Cancilla
said. “We’ve been on an acquisition phase for the past four or
five years, and this was one of the missing pieces.”  IBM tends to assemble its technology by buying companies
that lack a strong sales force or all the parts a client would
need, said  Mark Moskowitz , an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co.
in  San Francisco , in a note to investors. Houston-based Texas
Memory, which specializes in little beyond fast data
performance, was a “classic” deal, he said.  Texas Memory’s technology will go into IBM products sold to
customers who are managing data centers or analyzing large
amounts of data, Moskowitz said.  With the acquisition, IBM can begin producing an “all-
flash array” storage system, which doesn’t use hard disk
drives, allowing faster performance with lower power
consumption. After the deal, expected to close in the fourth
quarter, IBM plans to add Texas Memory’s technology to its
PureSystems storage product.  “We have a much more comprehensive solution now, and we’re
not done yet,” said Cancilla, who declined to provide details
of IBM’s acquisition plans for competitive reasons. “There’s
clearly a fundamental change occurring in the data center.”  IBM shares  rose  less than 1 percent to $201.22 at the close
in  New York . The shares have gained 9.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at 
 nturner7@bloomberg.net  