-- ICAP to Create Single Global Voice Broking Division
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y
-- 2012-08-16T14:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/icap-to-create-single-global-voice-broking-division-1-.html
ICAP Plc (IAP) , the world’s biggest
interdealer broker, will start a single global voice broking
division, combining its three regional operations to adapt to
changing regulations.  The merged unit will be run by David Casterton, most
recently head of the European voice business, London-based ICAP
said in a statement today. Three regional heads will report to
him: Hugh Gallagher for Asia Pacific,  Gary Smith  for Europe and
Dan Flannery for the Americas, the company said. The move takes
effect on Sept. 1.  The changes “will give us a clear global structure that
will ensure our continued success and enable us to serve our
existing and potential customers on a worldwide basis,”  Michael Spencer , ICAP’s chief executive officer, said in the statement.
“The markets we operate in are undergoing unprecedented
change.”  ICAP, which is cutting costs to bolster profit as the
 European debt crisis  crimps transactions on its foreign-exchange
and fixed-income trading platforms, also runs its electronic and
post trade divisions on a global basis. It’s also dealing with
changing worldwide regulations, including the Dodd-Frank Act in
the U.S., which is changing the way banks and brokers trade and
clear derivatives.  “Significant regulatory changes such as Dodd-Frank will
change the structure of the over-the-counter markets.” said
Richard Perrott, an analyst at Berenberg Bank in  London . “In
the future there will be a greater level of electronic trading
infrastructure, and it makes sense to look to adapt to the
changes.”  ICAP also said that Doug Rhoten, CEO of its Americas unit,
will become chairman of ICAP Americas to lead the firm’s
response to regulatory changes. He will also have responsibility
for the Brazilian unit.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  