-- Idenix Shares Plunge on Hepatitis C Treatment Heart Fears
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-08-16T20:12:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/idenix-shares-plunge-on-hepatitis-c-treatment-heart-fears-1-.html
Idenix Pharmaceuticals Inc. (IDIX)  fell
30 percent after a trial of the company’s hepatitis C drug was
placed on hold because of heart failure concerns raised in a
competitor’s study of a similar medicine.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  is looking at other
compounds from the same class of medicines called nucleotide
polymerase inhibitors, Idenix Chief Executive Officer Ron Renaud
said on a conference call today.  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD) , Bristol-
Myers Squibb Co. and  Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. (VRTX)  are developing
similar treatments.  Idenix  declined  to $5.84 at 4 p.m. New York time, its
biggest one-day drop in almost two years. The experimental drug
is Cambridge, Massachusetts-based Idenix’s main pipeline
prospect. Bristol-Myers said Aug. 1 that it halted trials of its
treatment after a patient developed heart failure.  “This event is likely to raise concerns about the risks of
nuke programs across the spectrum, but we believe it is
important to understand the difference among the assets,” said
 Geoffrey Porges , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in
New York. The Vertex and Gilead drugs have different structures
and may not raise the same worries, he said in a note to
clients.  Gilead fell 2.2 percent to $56.69. Vertex rose less than 1
percent to $54.48. Erin Emlock, a spokeswoman for Cambridge-
based Vertex, and Cara Miller, a spokeswoman for  Foster City ,
California-based Gilead, said their companies hadn’t been
contacted by the FDA about cardiac safety issues with their
drugs.  Agency Review  The FDA gave a “verbal notice” that a “partial clinical
hold” has been placed on the Idenix trial while the agency
reviews the medicine’s safety, Idenix said. The company said
today it plans to give the FDA data on the treatment, which
isn’t being given to any patients right now.  “As a result of the recent occurrence of a serious
cardiac-related adverse event encountered with a competitor’s
nucleotide polymerase inhibitor for the treatment of HCV, the
FDA has expressed an interest in further reviewing the safety of
IDX184 and has placed IDX184 on partial clinical hold,” Idenix
said in a statement.  “We believe this will be temporary, unfortunately we can’t
give any concrete answer on our timeline,” Renaud said on the
conference call.  The experimental drugs from Idenix, Gilead, Vertex and
Bristol-Myers stop the hepatitis C virus from replicating, and
could be used in combination with other pills to replace the
current regimen of side-effect heavy injections.  Seeking Patients  Idenix is trying to track down 67 patients who took its
drug so they can perform cardiac tests on them. All of the
patients have been off the medicine for at least a month, Chief
Scientific Officer Douglas Mayers said on the conference call.  Renaud said he didn’t know whether the FDA would look at
all of the related drugs that are in clinical trials, or just
some. “They did mention they’d be looking at, to start, NS5B
polymerase inhibitors,” he said of the company’s discussions
with regulators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in  New York  at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  