-- Life Partners Holdings Accused of Fraud by Texas in Suit
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-16T18:42:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/life-partners-holdings-accused-of-fraud-by-texas-in-suit.html
Life Partners Holdings Inc. violated
 Texas  law by fraudulently selling unregistered securities to
investors, Attorney General  Greg Abbott  alleged in a state court
complaint.  Life Partners Holdings buys rights to death benefits from
policyholders in exchange for lump-sum payments, generating
revenue on the split between what they pay for policies they
acquire and what they charge investors for their interests.  Abbott, in a complaint filed yesterday in an Austin, Texas,
court, accused the company and its Life Partners Inc. unit of
manufacturing the value of life-settlement investments by using
artificially short life expectancies, an action he claimed is
akin to a used car salesman rolling back a vehicle’s odometer to
increase its value.  “Revenues have declined rapidly, escrow accounts are
depleting, policies are at risk, and the companies will be out
of cash in as early as two months,” according to Abbott’s
complaint.  The Waco, Texas-based company has more than 29,000
investors across the U.S., according to the attorney general. As
of Dec. 31, 2010, the companies held 3,879 policies, of which
3,152 were beyond the contrived  life expectancy  estimates given
investors, according to the complaint.  Abbott is seeking an immediate court order barring Life
Partners, Chief Executive Officer Brian D. Pardo and President
R. Scott Peden from continuing to sell the allegedly fraudulent
securities, appointing a receiver and other relief.  Quarterly Dividend  Abbott said that despite Life Partners’ “dire financial
situation,” the company will pay a $1.8 million quarterly
dividend next month.  “Pardo, either directly or through his Pardo Family Trust,
will benefit from this dividend by approximately $900,000,”
Abbott said in the complaint.  Travis County, Texas, District Court Judge Orlinda Naranjo
today granted a temporary order barring Life Partners and the
two executives from dissipating company assets and from
destroying or removing books and records.  A hearing originally set for today at which the judge would
consider the receivership appointment and a temporary
restraining order has been postponed until tomorrow, according
to Naranjo’s order.  Andrea Atwell, a spokeswoman for Life Partners, didn’t
immediately respond to telephone messages seeking comment.  The case is  State of Texas  v.  Life Partners Holdings Inc. (LPHI) ,
D-1-GV-12-001128, District Court of Travis County, Texas, 201st
Judicial District (Austin).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  