-- Militants Attack Air Base as Pakistan Plans Taliban Offensive
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 2012-08-16T19:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/militants-attack-pakistan-air-base-in-kamra-gun-battle-rages.html
Militants stormed Pakistan’s main
 air force  base yesterday near the capital of Islamabad, sparking
a gun battle that killed all nine attackers as the country
prepares for a fresh offensive against the Taliban.  The early morning raid on Kamra airbase, about 50
kilometers (31 miles) from Islamabad, triggered a firefight that
lasted more than two hours and killed eight militants, a
security official and damaged one aircraft, according to Air
Force spokesman Tariq Mahmood. The ninth militant blew himself
up outside the base, according to a statement by the Air Force.  The raid on Kamra is at least the third attack against
security forces in Punjab province since Pakistan agreed last
month to reopen supply routes for North Atlantic Treaty
Organization vehicles into  Afghanistan  after a seven-month ban.
U.S. and Pakistani forces have been at odds over how to fight
Islamic extremists as President  Barack Obama ’s administration
winds down its 11-year war in Afghanistan.  “This attack is basically an attempt by militants to hit
at the core of Pakistan’s military assets so that they can
demoralize them before they launch any major operation,” said
Imtiaz Gul, executive director of the independent Center for
Research and Security Studies in Islamabad. “This also reflects
badly on the Pakistani intelligence agencies, which have failed
many times to pre-empt such attacks.”  Offensive Against Taliban  Pakistan has told U.S. military officials it is preparing a
new operation against Taliban militants in North Waziristan, a
tribal region bordering Afghanistan from where gunmen, including
the Haqqani network, operate and attack western forces fighting
in Afghanistan, the  Associated Press  reported on Aug. 14, citing
U.S. Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta .  The Kamra base houses the country’s largest aeronautical
complex that builds Mirage V combat aircraft and JF-17 fighters,
a joint venture between Pakistan and  China .  The militants who attacked the base had explosives strapped
to their bodies and used rocket-propelled grenades and automatic
weapons during the two-and-a-half hour attack, which also
injured the base commander, Defense Minister Naveed Qamar said.  “Militants came with the intention to drag this battle for
two or three days,” Qamar told reporters in Islamabad. “We
have secured the base with minimum loss.”  The attack won’t weaken Pakistan’s resolve to fight
terrorism, Prime Minister Raja Pervez Ashraf said in e-mailed
statement.  In a separate incident, militants attacked three passenger
buses killing at least 19 passengers in the northwest Khyber
Pakhtunkhwa province yesterday, the state-run  Pakistan 
Television reported, citing officials it didn’t identify.  Taliban guerrillas, who are opposed to the country’s
alliance with the U.S., in May 2011 attacked a naval air base in
Karachi and killed 10 security force members in a 16-hour gun
battle that damaged two P-3C Orion aircraft.  Pakistan’s military freed 39 hostages in 2009 when security
forces stormed a building in the army headquarters compound in
Rawalpindi, ending a 22-hour siege by Islamic guerrillas that
killed five gunmen and six soldiers.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
Farhan Sharif in Karachi  at 
 fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net  