-- Illinois Beloved as Worst Pension Fails to Scourge: Muni Credit
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   T i m   J o n e s
-- 2012-08-16T04:00:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/illinois-beloved-as-worst-pension-fails-to-scourge-muni-credit.html
Illinois  has set aside only 45
percent of what it needs to meet public-worker pension
obligations, the worst of any U.S. state.  Standard & Poor’s  may
cut its bond rating if lawmakers don’t come up with a fix
tomorrow. Investors are unfazed.  The fifth-most populous state’s unfunded pension liability
is growing by an estimated $12.6 million a day, according to
Democratic Governor  Pat Quinn ’s budget office. Yet the  penalty 
on general-obligation bonds from issuers in Illinois, relative
to top-grade debt, fell to 1.51 percentage point last month, the
lowest since February 2011, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  At the same time, neighboring  Wisconsin , with a 99.8
percent pension-funding ratio, has seen spreads on similar debt
more than double over the same period.  “Investors are believing the situation is on the way to
being resolved, but not everyone’s believing that,”  Richard Ciccarone , director of fixed-income research in  Chicago  for
McDonnell Investment Management LLC, said of Illinois.  “I want to see the whites of their eyes,” Ciccarone,
whose firm owns more than $8 billion in munis, said in a
telephone interview.  Illinois is battling the same force that has helped throw
cities from Stockton,  California , to  Central Falls ,  Rhode
Island , into bankruptcy: unsustainable retirement expenses.
Quinn, 63, called on the Democratic-controlled Legislature to
enact cost-cutting changes “without delay” when he announced
tomorrow’s special session on July 30.  Rating Imperiled  State contributions to the $63 billion consolidated
retirement system in fiscal 2013 are projected to reach $5.2
billion, up from $4.1 billion in the fiscal year that ended June
30, budget documents show. Standard & Poor’s said in April it
may cut Illinois’s rating from A+, the fifth-highest, if
lawmakers don’t enact “structural budget solutions” and
address “significant pension liabilities.”  California, at A-, is the only state graded lower by the
New York-based company. Moody’s Investors Service downgraded
Illinois in January to A2, its lowest grade for a state.  A threatened downgrade may not be enough to prompt action
from lawmakers, who’ve been unable to agree on revamping the
state’s five pension plans for teachers, judges, legislators,
university employees and state workers.  “We’re not anticipating resolution of a pension-reform
plan on Aug. 17,” said  John Miller , co-head of fixed-income
investment in Chicago at Nuveen Asset Management, which oversees
about $86.5 billion in munis, including Illinois general-
obligations. “I wouldn’t be shocked to see a downgrade between
now and year-end.”  Higher Contributions  The unfunded pension liability is at least $83 billion,
according to state figures. Lawmakers have proposed increasing
employee contributions and passing some state costs onto local
school districts.  The most meager yields in a generation have pushed
investors into lower-quality debt issued in states such as
Illinois, Ciccarone said.  The  yield  on top-grade munis maturing in 10 years declined
to 1.63 percent on July 27, the lowest since January 2009,
according to a Bloomberg Valuation index. That decline
accompanied a wave of about $142 billion flowing to bondholders
from redemptions and refinancing that started in May, the most
ever for a three-month period, according to Citigroup Inc.  “If we were in a more normal environment, we’d see a wider
spread for the state of Illinois based on  credit quality ,”
Ciccarone said. “To make conservative investors comfortable,
they have a long way to go.”  Wisconsin Penalty  Issuers in Wisconsin, which has the third-highest grade
from both S&P and Moody’s, have seen spreads on their debt
widen. The  difference  between general-obligation bonds sold by
the state and its localities widened to 0.45 percentage point
this month relative to top-rated muni debt, the most in about a
year, Bloomberg data show. It’s more than triple the 0.13
percentage point penalty investors demanded for the securities
in February 2011, the data show. The Illinois penalty has
declined by about 0.33 percentage point since then.  Although Illinois lawmakers raised personal and corporate
income taxes in 2011, the state carries a backlog of about $8
billion in unpaid bills.  “I expect this process to be politically noisy and
messy,” Molly Shellhorn, senior research analyst at Nuveen,
said of tomorrow’s legislative meeting.  “We will look for pension reform to hopefully be passed
this session,” she said. “But if it’s not all completed on
Friday, we’re not going to be panicked.”  TEXAS is set to borrow $9.8 billion of revenue-anticipation
notes as soon as Aug. 21 through competitive bid, Bloomberg data
show. Moody’s rates the sale MIG 1, its highest short-term
rating. (Added Aug. 15)  DALLAS plans to sell $366.9 million of wastewater and
sewer-system revenue debt, including taxable bonds, as soon as
next week, Bloomberg data show. Proceeds will refinance debt.
Moody’s rates the bonds Aa1, its second-highest grade. (Added
Aug. 15)  Editors: William Glasgall, Mark Schoifet  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net 
Tim Jones in Chicago at 
 tjones58@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  