-- Hindalco to Double Sales on Audi, Jaguar Orders: Corporate India
-- B y   A b h i s h e k   S h a n k e r
-- 2012-08-17T10:30:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/hindalco-to-double-sales-on-audi-jaguar-orders-corporate-india.html
Hindalco Industries Ltd. (HNDL) , the
world’s biggest  supplier  of aluminum to carmakers, may double
group sales to $33 billion in five years as  Audi AG (NSU)  and other
European carmakers swap steel with the lightweight metal.  “Automobiles are a huge prospect,” Debnarayan Bhattacharya, managing director of India’s second-largest
producer of the metal, said in an interview. “The European auto
market is booming. New environmental norms are an opportunity
for aluminum makers.”  Billionaire Kumar Mangalam Birla’s flagship, contending
with falling metal prices and rising costs, is betting
regulation to cut carbon emissions and improve  fuel efficiency 
in the U.S. and  Europe  will prompt carmakers to use more
aluminum. Jaguar Land Rover plans to start selling its first
all-aluminum Range Rover SUV next month, reducing the car’s
weight by 39 percent, while Daimler AG’s Mercedes is using the
metal for its 93,534-euro ($114,800) SL model.  Carmakers use about 50 million metric tons of steel a year
globally, equivalent to the world’s total aluminum capacity,
Bhattacharya, who’s also the vice chairman of Hindalco’s
Atlanta-based unit Novelis Inc., said in his office in Mumbai.
Stricter carbon emission norms in Europe are bound to lift
aluminum demand, he said.  The trend to use aluminum “was started by Audi 20 years
ago, and today many automakers including Jaguar are using the
alloy” said  Ferdinand Dudenhoeffer , director of the Center for
Automotive Research at the  University of Duisburg-Essen  in
 Germany . “This trend will continue for the next five years,
before we see materials such as plastics and carbon fiber become
more widespread.”  Emission Rules  Hindalco’s  shares  fell 2.6 percent to 113.7 rupees at close
in Mumbai,  compared  with a 0.2 percent gain in the benchmark BSE
India Sensitive Index.  The European Union renewed its crackdown on carbon-dioxide
emissions from cars by seeking a binding target for 2020 that’s
27 percent below the existing limit. The European Commission on
July 11 proposed to cap average emissions by passenger vehicles
in the EU at 95 grams a kilometer in 2020 through varying
targets for individual manufacturers ranging from Volkswagen AG
to General Motors Co.  “The lightweight aluminum platform has delivered
significant enhancements in performance and agility,” Del
Sehmar, a  Jaguar Land Rover (TTMT)  spokesman, said in an e-mail
response. “We are looking at the extensive use of lightweight
vehicle technologies to all of our future products.”  LME Prices  Aluminum content in Europe will rise by more than 25
kilograms per vehicle by 2025, Novelis, which supplies Jaguar
Land Rover, Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, Daimler AG’s Mercedes-
Benz and Audi among others, said in June. Audi, owned by
Germany’s Volkswagen AG, registered a 12.4 percent gain in sales
in the seven months to July, while BMW posted a 7.6 percent rise
in the same period.  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the largest U.S. aluminum  producer, in July
reported second-quarter earnings and revenue that beat analysts’
 estimates  as a result of an increase in orders from the
automakers including Ford Motor Co. and Honda Motor Co.  Hindalco, which bought Novelis in 2007 to gain 20 percent
of the high-end aluminum market and customers including Coca-
Cola Co., reported its biggest profit drop in three years in the
three months ended June 30 at its Indian operations due to lower
prices on the  London  Metal Exchange and higher costs, according
to a statement to exchanges on Aug. 14.  Novelis reported a 20 percent increase in net income at $91
million in three months ended June 30, according to a release on
the same day. The company aims to add 900 kilotons of capacity,
it said without giving a timeline.  Aluminum for three-month delivery, which has fallen 9
percent this year, gained 0.2 percent to $1,846 a ton as of
11:27 a.m. in London. Benchmark hot-rolled steel, used in making
cars, traded at $633 a ton as of Aug. 14, according to weekly
price update by the Steel Business Briefing.  China Plant  Novelis also plans to spend $100 million to build a
120,000-ton automotive sheet facility in  China  and will start
construction at the end of this quarter, Chief Executive Officer
Philip Martens said on Aug. 14. Global automotive demand for
aluminum is forecast to grow 25 percent in five years, he said.  “At present we supply from our European unit,”
Bhattacharya said. “With rising demand in both the regions we
have decided to set up a new unit” in China, he said.  Sales of luxury car brands took off in the last six months,
Peter Jones, chief executive officer at Lookers Plc, a U.K. car
dealership and parts supplier said on Aug. 15. Profit per unit
on new cars increased 11 percent, he said.  Regulation Delayed  Hindalco’s increasing focus on automobile makers may be
affected should the governments defer deadlines for cutting
 carbon emissions , said Bhavesh Chauhan a Mumbai-based analyst at
Angel Broking Ltd.  U.S. auto and environmental regulators delayed, past a
self-imposed deadline of Aug. 15, the release of a final rule
requiring automakers to raise the average fuel-economy of their
fleets to 54.5 miles per gallon by 2025. President  Barack
Obama ’s administration didn’t say when it will issue the rule
targeting model-year 2017 passenger vehicles sold in the U.S.  Hindalco is boosting capacity at home to meet rising
demand. It is spending 270 billion rupees ($4.8 billion) by
fiscal year 2015 that will almost triple its domestic capacity
to 1.7 million tons helping boost revenue.  No Delays  The company, set up in 1958 by Birla’s grandfather
Ghanshyam Das Birla, is building aluminum smelting capacities in
the central state of  Madhya Pradesh  and in the eastern states of
Odisha and Jharkhand with capacities of 360,000 tons each. The
project in Madhya Pradesh was scheduled to start in December,
according to a September report on the company’s website.  “I don’t think they will be able to finish their
greenfield projects in India by 2015,” said Angel Broking’s
Chauhan, who has a neutral  rating  on the stock. Coal needed to
fuel the company’s power plants “aren’t coming on time,” he
said. Bhattacharya said he doesn’t expect further delays.  Hindalco, which had $16.4 billion of  sales  in the year
ended March 31, is seeking supplies of raw materials outside
India to cut production costs, Bhattacharya said.  The company aims to secure raw material supplies including
bauxite and coal to fire its projects, Bhattacharya said. The
two materials account for 60 percent of the cost of producing
the metal.  “I don’t want to put all my eggs in one basket -- that is
 India ,” Bhattacharya said, without elaborating. “We are
currently evaluating other opportunities outside. We may go for
some mines or form joint ventures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Abhishek Shanker in Mumbai at 
 ashanker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  