-- Individuals Order $3.2 Billion in California Note Sale
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-08-16T00:48:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/individuals-order-3-2-billion-in-california-note-sale.html
 Individual investors ordered $3.24
billion of $10 billion in notes offered by  California  with
yields of as much as 0.55 percent, according to Treasurer Bill Lockyer’s office.  Individuals bought about 40 percent of the $8 billion in
securities offered to them in the state’s largest short-term
borrowing in two years, according to an e-mailed statement from
Lockyer’s office.  In September, individual investors purchased 66 percent of
a $5.4 billion offering at yields of 0.38 percent to 0.4
percent. Lockyer ended that sale after two days, a day earlier
than planned.  Last year’s sale probably went more briskly because it was
smaller, said Michael E. Johnson, a managing director at Gurtin
Fixed Income Management LLC. The Solana Beach, California, firm
manages about $6.1 billion, including $4 billion in municipals.  “When you look at the pricing, it looks fair to us,”
Johnson said by telephone. “Given the size of it, they may need
to add 10-ish basis points to get it done.”  Final prices will be set tomorrow after institutional
investors, such as pensions and insurers, place their orders,
according to the e-mail from Lockyer spokesman  Tom Dresslar .  ‘Very Satisfied’  “We’re very satisfied with the retail results,” Dresslar
said. “Now we have to complete the job at the best possible
price for taxpayers.”  The revenue-anticipation notes offered yields ranging from
0.3 percent to 0.4 percent for those coming due in May and 0.4
percent to 0.55 percent for a June maturity, according to a
pricing memo e-mailed by Dresslar. The range is almost 12 basis
points to about 37 basis points higher than yesterday’s 0.18
percent yield on benchmark AAA one-year tax-exempt debt,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis point is 0.01
percentage point.  Borrowing costs for the most populous U.S. state have
declined as Governor  Jerry Brown , a Democrat, has taken steps to
curb borrowing and reduce the state’s reliance on fiscal
maneuvers such as internal loans and delaying payments owed to
schools and local governments. Both  Standard & Poor’s  and
Moody’s Investors Service gave the notes top ratings.  With the note sale and borrowing planned through October,
California will issue $17.48 billion in debt this year, up from
$11.18 billion in 2011, according to calculations by Dresslar.
In 2010, when the Build America Bonds program ended, California
sold $21.12 billion in debt. The numbers include general-
obligation bonds, revenue-anticipation notes and lease-revenue
bonds issued by the state Public Works Board.  Additional Sales  The state plans to sell $1.6 billion in general-obligation
bonds on Sept. 25, including $1.3 billion for infrastructure
projects and $300 million to refinance existing bonds, according
to the treasurer’s office.  The state also plans a $500 million sale Oct. 23 to
refinance general-obligation bonds.  The Public Works Board scheduled a $250 million sale of
lease-revenue bonds Sept. 13 for the  University of California 
and California State University systems, and $548 million on
Oct. 17 for various projects, according to Dresslar.  State and local governments typically sell short-term debt
to raise cash until the bulk of tax receipts arrive later in the
fiscal year, which in California ends June 30. The notes must be
repaid in the fiscal year they are sold.  JPMorgan, Wells  JPMorgan Chase & Co. and Wells Fargo & Co. are joint senior
managers and Los Angeles-based bond firm De La Rosa & Co. is co-
managing the sale. The state will complete the offering with
institutional sales tomorrow.  Following the September sale, California, the most indebted
state, had to borrow $1 billion more in February after tax
collections fell short and spending topped expectations.  In the September sale, two-thirds of the debt was sold to
individual investors. A portion that matured in May was priced
at 0.38 percent, while the bulk of the bonds, which came due in
June, were offered at 0.4 percent.  Those yields at the time were about 17 basis points  higher 
than yields on AAA rated tax-exempt debt maturing in a year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in  Los Angeles  at 
 Jnash24@bloomberg.net 
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  