-- Interest in March, June Carbon Plunges on EU Phase Risks
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-08-16T13:37:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/interest-in-march-june-carbon-plunges-on-eu-phase-risks.html
Open interest in March and June 2013
European Union carbon futures plunged yesterday on risks
associated with converting Phase 2 permits into Phase 3.  The open interest in March futures dropped 27 percent to
28.4 million metric tons from a record 36.3 million on Aug. 14,
while for June it fell 31 percent to 25.1 million tons,
according to data from the ICE Futures Europe exchange in
 London , the biggest exchange for carbon trading.  Traders may be unwinding positions because of the
conversion risks, said Tom Greenwood, an analyst in London for
Ideacarbon, which rates emission credits. Trading in both months
yesterday surged to records on ICE.  “If you arbitraged the March-June time spread, you could
be in trouble because you’ll get a Phase 2 EU allowance
delivered from the March contract you’ve bought, but you may not
be able to use it for delivery on the June contract you sold,”
he said today in an e-mailed response to questions. That’s
prompted traders to close both positions, Greenwood said.  Yesterday, ICE said it would not accept Phase 2 allowances
for delivery into futures contracts after April. Factories,
power stations and airlines in the system need to hand in
allowances to match 2012 emissions by April 30, 2013. The second
phase runs for the five years through this year, with Phase 3
extending until 2020.  Unwinding Positions  The EU will exchange emitters’ surplus Phase 2 permits for
Phase 3 no later than the end of June, according to a European
Commission  questions and answers  website. It’s unclear when the
conversion of Phase 2 allowances will begin. The last trading
day for the June ICE futures contract is June 24.  Unwinding the positions means selling March and buying
June, Greenwood said.  “It ultimately involves closing positions in both, so open
interest falls in both,” he said.  Traders may have initially bought March and sold June to
take advantage of the contango in the carbon market, Greenwood
said. Those two contracts were offering a three-month return of
2.8 percent six months ago, which is about 11 percent on an
annualized basis, according to ICE data.  Yesterday, the contracts were offering a 3.6 percent
spread, or about 14 percent annually.  Open interest is a measure of trading positions that have
not been closed or delivered.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in London at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lars Paulsson at 
 lpaulsson@bloomberg.net  