-- IPhones Become Mobile Casinos by Adding Real-Money Bets
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-08-16T14:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/iphones-become-mobile-casinos-by-adding-real-money-bets.html
IPhone users will soon be able to
gamble with real money on virtual slot machines, trying their
luck with the swipe of an index finger.  Big Fish Games Inc.  is introducing a version of its
gambling application Big Fish Casino with real-money betting in
the U.K., where it is legal, the Seattle-based company said. It
will arrive in  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s  App Store  in the coming weeks, and
 Betable Ltd. , a London-based partner of Big Fish, will process
bets in the program.  Game developers are building digital versions of Las Vegas
casinos as users of smartphones and tablets are expected to
wager $100 billion annually on the devices by 2017, up from
about $20 billion last year,  estimates  Juniper Research. That
potential payout has made Big Fish and other developers eager to
replace virtual currencies with real cash in apps, even though
use may be limited by gambling restrictions in the U.S.  “This is the biggest opportunity that game developers have
had since the advent of the Internet,” Christopher Griffin,
chief executive officer of Betable, said in an interview.  Big Fish may soon face competition from  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the
largest maker of social games, which last month said it plans to
introduce real-money betting in the first half of 2013.  Restrictions on  Internet gambling  in the U.S. may also
ease, as several states, including California,  Nevada  and  New
Jersey , are considering legislation to legalize the practice.  Game Makers  In the U.K., companies including  Betfair Group Plc (BET) , and
 William Hill Plc (WMH)  currently have gambling in iPhone apps. Betable
is working with dozens of other game makers to debut real-money
games this year, Griffin said.  Big Fish Casino enables users to provide credit card
numbers to place bets. Betable and Big Fish will divide the
“take,” or the amount made on each slot machine wager.  Even as Apple’s storefront plays host to an increasing
number of casino apps, the Cupertino, California-based company
isn’t taking a cut of sales from gambling in its apps,  Tom Neumayr , a spokesman for Apple, said in an interview. Games are
permitted in the App Store as long as they comply with local
laws, said Neumayr, who declined to comment specifically on Big
Fish.  “Apple wants to keep arms’ length from this,” said Paul Thelen, CEO of Big Fish. “They don’t want to be the middleman
in a gambling operation.”  Last year, Apple prevented Big Fish from operating a
subscription service that would have given iPad users access to
dozens of video games for a monthly fee.  Big Fish, founded in 2002, had revenue of more than $180
million last year, Thelen said. He expanded in online gambling
with the March acquistion of Self Aware Games, a startup based
in Oakland,  California .  Many players already pay real money for virtual currency in
Big Fish games to bet on poker, slots and other games of chance,
though they cannot cash out their winnings. These users are
likely to flock to real-money wagers, Thelen said.  “It’s a very lucrative opportunity,” Thelen said of real-
money gambling in mobile games.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 Tgiles5@bloomberg.net  