-- Is Israel’s Rush to Strike Iran Based on U.S. Politics?
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-08-16T22:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/is-israel-s-rush-to-strike-iran-based-on-u-s-politics-.html
Israeli officials are warning they
might have to launch an attack on  Iran ’s nuclear facilities,
perhaps even before the  U.S. presidential election  in November.
 Israel ’s concerns about a nuclear-armed Iran are well-founded,
but this speeding up the timeline on a potential strike is ill-
judged.  What is the sudden urgency? Nobody has been able to point
to a recent game-changing event in Iran.  Michael Oren , Israel’s
ambassador to the U.S., was asked Wednesday by  Bloomberg News 
whether it was tied to U.S. politics, the idea being that Israel
might have more leverage to influence U.S. responses during an
election campaign than after. He dismissed this.  If Israel is about to attack Iran (and this time the
threats are backed up by distribution of gas masks and other
civil defense preparations), then using the campaign season to
pull in the U.S. makes tactical sense. Neither President  Barack Obama  nor Republican candidate  Mitt Romney  would want to
alienate Jewish or evangelical Christian voters and donors by
failing to support Israel. But it would also damage Israel’s
most important strategic partnership. Nobody likes getting
blackmailed.  The threats could, of course, be another bluff, designed to
pressure the U.S. and  Europe  into quickly putting in place
tougher sanctions. If so, that seems unwise, too. After so many
unfulfilled warnings of an imminent attack on Iran, Israel’s
credibility is eroding, not to mention the destabilizing effect
on oil and other global markets.  Decision Maker  So what about the substance? Political considerations don’t
matter if this is the right time to strike at  Iran’s nuclear
program . As an unnamed Israeli official (referred to as “the
decision maker”) insisted in a recent Haaretz newspaper
 interview , a single atom bomb is enough to finish off the
Zionist story.  According to this official’s calculation, Israel has at
best until next spring before Iran has stockpiled sufficient
nuclear material to reprocess into a bomb. By that time, Iran
would have reached the point of immunity from Israeli attack.
The U.S. would still be able to take action, with its greater
capabilities, but understandably Israel does not want to
outsource its essential security.  This is where the argument of the strike-now camp breaks
down (which is why so much of the Israeli security establishment
thinks this is not the time to attack, contra Defense Minister
 Ehud Barak  and Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ). It’s very
likely that go-it-alone airstrikes would make the situation
worse for Israel. Haaretz’s “decision maker” (heavy hints in the
piece suggest it was Barak) acknowledged that all Israel can
hope to do is to delay Iran’s nuclear program. His estimate was
six, eight or 10 years, by which time Iran might have a new
regime.  U.S. and most military estimates are far less sanguine --
that it would set back the Iranians for two years at best. More
important, it’s wishful thinking that an Israeli airstrike would
lead to the fall of the government in Tehran. More likely, an
Israeli assault would strengthen the regime, because the nuclear
program is one of the few issues on which it enjoys broad-based
support from an increasingly unhappy populace.  Past experience suggests Iran would also accelerate its
nuclear program after being struck. Contrary to the general
mythology, this is what happened in  Iraq  after Israel bombed the
Osirak nuclear power plant in 1981. Iraqi nuclear scientists
 have confirmed  in interviews that after the Osirak attack,
 Saddam Hussein  threw thousands of scientists and billions of
dollars into what had been a desultory nuclear weapons effort.
It was the 1991  Gulf War  and subsequent international sanctions
that killed the program off.  Radioactive Uranium  An attack on Iran’s nuclear fuel infrastructure would need
to target, among other things, the uranium conversion plant at
Isfahan, a city of more than 3 million people. That  would
probably release  several tons of toxic and radioactive uranium
tetrafluoride and uranium hexafluoride into the atmosphere. It’s
hard to know how many civilians would be affected, or how badly.  Iran would certainly retaliate. This week, Israel’s
outgoing home defense minister, Matan Vilnai, estimated that
Israeli airstrikes would be followed by a 30-day Iran-Israel war
that would cost 500 Israeli lives, mostly due to Iranian missile
strikes -- although he acknowledged that the death toll could
easily be more or less. At a time of civil war in  Syria  and
instability in Lebanon, the potential for wider fallout is real.  Finally, U.S.-led international sanctions, joined by Europe
this year specifically to avert military action by Israel, might
not survive an attack. Good luck getting the Europeans to stay
committed, let alone persuading Japan and  South Korea  to agree
to sanctions, if Israel strikes first. By contrast, a U.S.
assault on Iran made after sanctions have been given a realistic
chance to work stands a better chance of succeeding militarily
and of keeping international pressure on Iran afterward.  Tough sanctions only took effect this year. It’s true they
have not yet changed Iran’s behavior, beyond a brief visit to
the negotiating table in the spring. They are, however, having
an enormous impact inside the country. Iranian oil exports are
down 52 percent this year, the rial has fallen sharply against
the  U.S. dollar , and the  inflation  rate has risen to 24 percent.
The noose is likely to tighten further. The U.S. has given 20
important buyers of Iranian oil, including China, India and
Japan, six-month waivers from U.S. punitive sanctions. The
waivers come up for renewal in December. That’s the deadline
Israel’s leaders should be focusing on, not November’s
presidential vote.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  U.S.’s ethanol policy ;
Stephen L. Carter asks whether anything is really  “politically
impossible” ;  Noah Feldman  on  Egypt’s democratic coup ; William
Pesek on  reviving India’s economy ;  Amity Shlaes  on  lessons of
the lobster trade ;  Jonathan Weil  on  Standard Chartered ’s  money
laundering settlement ; Adam Kirsch on  presidential weakness  in
the novel “Primary Colors.”  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 