-- Israel Bonds Drop as Inflation May Delay Rate Cut; Shekel Gains
-- B y   S h a r o n   W r o b e l
-- 2012-08-16T13:55:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/israel-bonds-drop-as-inflation-may-delay-rate-cut-shekel-gains.html
Israel ’s benchmark bonds fell,
pushing yields to a seven-week high, and the shekel rose on bets
the central bank will keep interest rates steady this month
after inflation and economic growth accelerated.  The yield on the 5.5 percent bonds maturing in January 2022
rose one basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 4.29 percent
at the 4:30 p.m. close in Tel Aviv, the highest since July 1.
The yield gained 12 basis points this week. Inflation erodes the
value of fixed-income payments over time. The shekel gained 0.3
percent to 4.0353 a dollar at 4:50 p.m. in Tel Aviv.  The  Bank of Israel  will probably hold the key policy rate
at 2.25 percent on Aug. 27, according to seven out of 13
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg. Economic growth quickened to
an annualized 3.2 percent in the second quarter from a revised
2.8 percent in the first quarter as exports and consumption
rose, the  Central Bureau of Statistics  said today. Inflation
climbed to 1.4 percent in July from 1 percent a month earlier as
housing costs and taxes increased, the bureau said yesterday.  “The Bank of Israel is likely to be concerned about the
latest revival of the real estate market as well as rising
inflation expectations and may postpone an interest-rate cut to
later this year,” said Modi Shafrir, chief economist at Tel
Aviv-based I.L.S. Brokers Ltd. “The growth data, which looks
better than anticipated, is also adding to the likelihood that
borrowing costs will remain unchanged this month.”  Nine economists were expecting growth of 2.5 percent,
according to the median forecast on Bloomberg.  Higher Taxes  The central bank reduced  interest rates  twice this year,
citing weakness in  Europe ’s economy. Six economists are
forecasting another 25 basis-point reduction at this month’s
rate-setting meeting.  One-year interest rate swaps , an indicator
of investor expectations for the benchmark rate in the period,
gained one basis point to 2.15 percent. The swaps have increased
19 basis points this month.  Parliament this month approved raising value-added and
income taxes, while the  Finance Ministry  in July increased taxes
on beer and cigarettes. Food costs, including dairy, poultry and
egg prices, are expected to climb by year-end, Israel’s Ministry
of Agriculture said yesterday.  The two-year break-even rate, the yield difference between
the inflation-linked bond and fixed-rate government bonds of
similar maturity, rose seven basis points to 262, implying an
average annual inflation rate of 2.62 percent.  The  Tel Aviv  Bond 40 Index, which measures inflation-linked
and fixed-rate corporate bonds, rose 0.6 percent, the most since
July 19, to 266.55.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sharon Wrobel in Tel Aviv at 
 swrobel4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  