-- Mitt Romney’s Impossible Critics
-- B y   S t e p h e n   L .   C a r t e r
-- 2012-08-16T22:30:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/mitt-romney-s-impossible-critics.html
Mitt Romney ’s  critics  have had a lot
of fun with  the recent report  from the Tax Policy Center
proclaiming the Republican presidential candidate’s tax proposal
“mathematically impossible.” Romney’s  supporters , meanwhile,
have struck back, insisting that the report relies on
assumptions that Romney’s plan doesn’t make.  I don’t want to get into the middle of that tussle. More
fascinating to me as a wordsmith is the report’s use of the term
“mathematically impossible.” Because the claim is that Romney’s
numbers don’t add up, many a lexicographer will immediately
protest that the proper qualifier is “arithmetically,” not
“mathematically.”  Still, either way, the phrase implies a claim refuted with
scientific exactitude, as if I were to say that all the people
in the world weigh more than all the insects in the world. (The
insects  win , by a 2-to-1 margin. Sorry.)  “Impossible” is a strong word. In ordinary usage, a thing
is impossible when, as the Oxford English Dictionary says, “it
cannot be done or effected.” U.S. contract law, for example,
distinguishes between a claim that performance of a promise is
impossible and a claim that performance is more difficult or
expensive than expected. The first is a defense; the second
usually isn’t. A painter who dies is freed from his obligation
to paint a picture, but the painter who protests that the price
of his materials has skyrocketed must generally perform or pay
damages.  Not Impossible  In politics, however, the assertion that something is
“impossible” rarely means that.  Robert Caro , in “The Passage of
Power,”  the latest volume  of his biography of  Lyndon B. Johnson ,
reminds us of the widespread opinion among pundits in the early
1960s that passage of a civil-rights bill was “impossible.”
Nobody thought the assassination of  John F. Kennedy  had changed
the political outlook. The concern wasn’t that Congress was
constitutionally incapable of enacting such legislation: The
word “impossible” meant only that it was unlikely to occur.  I believe this is the sort of impossibility that the good
people at the Tax Policy Center had in mind. The center’s
analysis rests on the presumption that although Romney promises
to cut all tax rates by 20 percent and to eliminate unspecified
deductions, he would never touch the exclusion from taxation of
either savings in life-insurance policies or earnings from
municipal bonds. Romney’s defenders note that he has not said a
word about protecting those exclusions. But the center isn’t
saying it is mathematically impossible to make these cuts;
really, the report merely predicts that they won’t be made.  Thus, what the report really means (and presumably would
have said, but for the need to grab headlines) is that no matter
what any president proposes, Congress will never repeal those
exemptions. If one believes this is true, then the correct
description of Romney’s plan is not “mathematically impossible,”
but “politically impossible.”  What we need is a scale along which to measure the
likelihood of various political ideas that critics consider
impossible, so that we will not be forced to reach for
attention-getting, but formally inaccurate, claims about
mathematics and logic.  Which is just what the physicist Michio Kaku proposes for
science in his delightful little book “ Physics of the
Impossible .” He divides things that scientists think can’t be
done into three categories, providing a useful model for our
political debates.  Scientifically Impossible  In Kaku’s typology, Class I impossibilities are ideas that
violate no physical laws but that we are a long way from
figuring out how to do; Class II includes those things not
forbidden by the laws of physics but sitting “at the very edge
of our understanding” -- things that, “if possible at all,”
would probably not come into existence for hundreds or even
thousands of years; Class III comprises “technologies that
violate the known laws of physics” -- that is, they could not be
constructed without “a fundamental shift in our understanding of
physics.”  Creating an analogous set of categories to organize
political ideas is relatively straightforward. Class I would
include things that seem within the capacity of our politics,
even though we have little idea so far how to achieve them.
Class II would be those things at the outer edge of political
possibility, not likely to come about for many decades. (I won’t
say millenniums, as Kaku does, because I won’t presume that our
politics will last as long as our technologies.) Class III would
include those things that are not possible within our politics
as understood. In this category would be, among other things,
those that are clearly unconstitutional.  A couple of years ago, Washington Post columnist Eugene Robinson warned that real control of health-care costs  will be 
“virtually impossible to achieve” as long as patients keep
insisting that only other people’s care -- not their own -- be
cut back. Robinson’s claim was not that some formal logical
impediment exists, only that the task is politically difficult.
This use of the word plainly belongs to Class I.  Also in Class I would be  Theodore Roosevelt ’s coy
insistence in 1916 that his strident advocacy for U.S. entry
into what would become World War I had made it “impossible” for
him to be nominated by the Republicans for president. He wasn’t
nominated -- he finished sixth at the convention -- but the
political winds might well have shifted in his favor. In short,
his nomination wasn’t impossible at all, just highly unlikely.  The argument that passing civil-rights legislation in 1964
was impossible represents at most an example of Class II.
Racial segregation at the time was deeply entrenched not only in
law but in politics. To get his bill, Johnson had, in effect, to
turn the nation’s politics on its axis, spinning the legislative
process in a direction few believed it could take. In the end,
however, he prevailed.  Constitutionally Impossible  What about Class III impossibilities -- those that require
us to rethink the entire political process as we know it? Our
politics are remarkably supple. Apart from blatant
unconstitutionalities -- a president who arbitrarily awards
himself a third term, say -- Class III may well be an empty set.
After all, not long ago most Americans would probably have
placed into this category the possibility that a black man would
soon be elected president.  True, many observers would consider serious entitlement
reform a Class III impossibility, but I think it belongs in
Class II or even Class I: In the case of  Social Security  and
Medicare, we know  what has to be done . The question is whether
we have the will to do it.  If Romney defeats President  Barack Obama  in November, and
if he then proposes eliminating the popular exclusions that the
 Tax Policy Center  says he wouldn’t dare touch, he would face
only a Class I impossibility. No matter how sacred investors and
others might hold them, and no matter how much money their
supporters might shower on congressional chairmen, popular
loopholes have been repealed before. The task is surely easier
than passing a civil-rights bill at a time when both houses of
Congress were largely controlled by segregationists.  Ambitious political programs, whether foolish or wise, are
often difficult to achieve. But “impossible”? Maybe we should
leave that word to the mathematicians.  (Stephen L. Carter is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
professor of law at  Yale University . He is the author of “The
Violence of Peace: America’s Wars in the Age of Obama,” and his
most recent novel is “The Impeachment of  Abraham Lincoln .”)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  U.S.’s ethanol policy  and
on  Israel’s threat  to strike  Iran ;  Noah Feldman  on  Egypt’s
democratic coup ; William Pesek on  reviving India’s economy ;
 Amity Shlaes  on  lessons of the lobster trade ;  Jonathan Weil  on
 Standard Chartered ’s  money laundering settlement ; Adam Kirsch on
 presidential weakness  in the novel “Primary Colors.”  To contact the writer of this article:
Stephen L. Carter at  stephen.carter@yale.edu  or @StepCarter on
Twitter.  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
 Michael Newman  at   mnewman43@bloomberg.net  