-- Macy’s Sues J.C. Penney Over Martha Stewart Agreement
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-16T21:55:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/j-c-penney-sued-by-macy-s-over-martha-stewart-agreement.html
Macy’s Inc. sued J.C. Penney Co. in
 New York  state court over the rights to sell products branded by
 Martha Stewart  Living Omnimedia Inc. in their respective
department stores.  Macy’s, the second-biggest U.S. department-store chain,
sued  Martha Stewart Living (MSO)  in January to stop it from executing
a sales agreement that was announced in December with J.C.
Penney. Cincinnati-based Macy’s claimed an exclusive right to
sell Martha Stewart products in certain categories.  Justice Jeffrey K. Oing in  Manhattan  last month granted
Macy’s a preliminary injunction blocking Martha Stewart Living
from taking any steps under the agreement with J.C. Penney.
Martha Stewart Living filed a notice of appeal of that decision
last week.  In a suit filed today in the same court, Macy’s said Plano,
Texas-based J.C. Penney, the No. 4 U.S. department-store chain,
caused it to “incur substantial damages and threatens to
inflict incalculable further harm” and that the Martha Stewart
pact is “transparently designed to eliminate the competitive
advantage that Macy’s enjoys in the area of home products.”  “ J.C. Penney (JCP)  has tortiously interfered, and continues to
tortiously interfere, with a contract that Macy’s validly
entered into with Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc.,” Macy’s
said in the complaint. “J.C. Penney knew that such a contract
existed, and nonetheless induced MSLO to materially breach that
contract.”  ‘Status Quo’  The lawsuit seeks a preliminary injunction “preserving the
status quo” and a permanent injunction stopping J.C. Penney
from using Martha Stewart’s name or likeness in connection with
the “manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution” of products
in certain categories, including cookware, housewares and home
decorations, as well as unspecified damages.  “This requested injunction would cover, but is not limited
to, any current designs in Macy’s exclusive product categories
that were developed by MSLO for J.C. Penney at any time in the
past or that may be in the future,” Macy’s said in a statement.
“Macy’s plans to continue to fully support its exclusive Martha
Stewart-branded product sold in its stores and online under its
contract with MSLO, which currently extends through January
2018.”  Home Goods  J.C. Penney, seeking to revive sales with new mini-stores
dedicated to the Martha Stewart home-goods brand, acquired a
17 percent stake in Martha Stewart Living for $38.5 million.  Martha Stewart Living said last month that J.C. Penney
agreed to pay at least $282.9 million in sales commission over
10 years under an amended agreement, a $110.5 million increase
from the terms disclosed in December. The amended pact also
added new products.  “J.C. Penney doesn’t provide comment on pending
litigation,” Daphne Avila, a spokeswoman, said in a telephone
interview.  Jeanne Meyer, a spokeswoman for New York-based Martha
Stewart Living, which isn’t a defendant in the suit, didn’t
respond to voice-mail and an e-mail seeking comment.  The case is  Macy’s Inc. (M)  v. J.C. Penney Corp., 652861/2012,
New York State Supreme Court (Manhattan). The old case is Macy’s
Inc. v. Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia Inc., 650197/2012, New
York state Supreme Court (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  