-- Japan Deports 14 Chinese for Landing on Disputed Island
-- B y   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a   a n d   I s a b e l   R e y n o l d s
-- 2012-08-17T13:21:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/japanese-group-heads-to-disputed-islands-after-chinese-arrested.html
Japan deported 14 Chinese nationals
arrested for visiting an island in the  East China Sea  claimed by
both countries, defusing an incident that revived tensions
between  Asia ’s two biggest economies.  Seven members of the group who left by plane from Okinawa
have arrived in  Hong Kong , while the other seven will set off by
boat to return later, according to a statement from the Chinese
city’s government today.  China  demanded their release after they
planted a Chinese flag on one of the islands known as Senkaku in
Japanese and Diaoyu in Chinese.  “We have confirmed our response to deport those
involved,” Japanese Chief Cabinet Secretary Osamu Fujimura said
at a press conference today in  Tokyo .  The arrests reignited bilateral animosity at a time when
Japan is mired in a separate territorial dispute with  South
Korea . Both involve sovereignty over areas with energy reserves
and all three countries are seeking to bolster domestic support
ahead of leadership contests this year.  “Standard rules of the road are to charge these people and
release them to China,” said Brad Glosserman, executive
director of  Pacific Forum CSIS , a Honolulu-based research
institute. “We’re in the middle of political transition and
uncertainty. Everyone needs to be dialing back their rhetoric.”  The decision to deport the activists preceded a trip
beginning tomorrow to the islands by a Japanese group including
opposition lawmakers. The group is scheduled to arrive in the
area by boat on Aug. 19 and will travel around the area without
landing.  Sovereignty, Pride  “Territory is not just a physical thing, it’s also about
sovereignty and pride,” said Satoru Mizushima, the head of
Ganbare Nippon, the group organizing its 10th tour around the
uninhabited islands that are administered by  Japan . “The
government should be in charge of this, but they are doing
nothing, so China is making these claims.”  Opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  lawmakers Yoshitaka
Shindo and Eriko Yamatani are among the group of about 150.  Vice Foreign Minister Zhang Zhijun called his Japanese
counterpart yesterday and asked for the immediate release of the
“illegally arrested” activists, according to a statement
posted on China’s Foreign Ministry website.  The collision of a Chinese fishing boat with two Japanese
Coast Guard vessels near the islands in September 2010, sent
bilateral relations to the lowest level in at least five years.
The captain of the boat was detained for 17 days before being
released.  Failed Deal  The two countries have failed to implement a June 2008 deal
to develop a natural  gas field  in the area and Japan has
objected to Chinese drilling nearby.  Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara in April said the
metropolitan government was seeking to buy the islands from a
private Japanese family that owns them, sparking outrage in
China.  “Growing competition for the rich energy and fishing
resources that lie beneath Asia’s waters is adding an economic
incentive for rivalry,” Thomas Berger, a professor of
international relations at  Boston University , said in e-mailed
comments. “The landing and arrest of the Chinese activists on
the disputed Senkaku/Diaoyu islands is only the latest sign of
troubles ahead.”  The arrests, on the 67th anniversary of the Japanese
surrender that ended World War II, came after South Korean
President  Lee Myung Bak  on Aug. 10 visited a string of islets
also claimed by Japan. Noda’s government recalled its ambassador
to South Korea in protest.  Fishing Grounds  The rocks, called Takeshima in Japanese and Dokdo in
Korean, lie 87 kilometers (54 miles) east of the closest South
Korean territory and 158 kilometers from the nearest Japanese
land, and are near fishing grounds and natural gas reserves.  Fujimura today said Japan will refer the dispute to the
United Nations International Court of Justice. The appeal may
have a limited impact because both parties have to recognize the
court’s jurisdiction, which South Korea has declined to do.  Japan is also reconsidering a decision to expand a foreign
exchange swap agreement with South Korea, Finance Minister  Jun
Azumi  said. An existing accord was expanded to $70 billion in
from $13 billion at a meeting between Noda and Lee in October.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net ;
Isabel Reynolds in Tokyo at 
 ireynolds1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  