-- JPMorgan, UBS Said Among Banks Queried in Libor Probe
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-08-16T23:41:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/jpmorgan-ubs-said-among-banks-queried-in-libor-probe.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  and  Barclays
Plc (BARC)  are among seven banks subpoenaed in New York and
Connecticut’s investigation into alleged manipulation of Libor,
according to a person familiar with the matter and company
filings.  Subpoenas were sent in recent weeks to  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ,
 Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  in
addition to JPMorgan and Barclays, the person said yesterday.
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  UBS AG (UBSN)  received subpoenas earlier this year
as part of the investigation.  New York Attorney General Eric Schneiderman and Connecticut
Attorney General George Jepsen are jointly investigating alleged
manipulation of the London interbank offered rate by lenders.
RBS, UBS,  Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY)  and Deutsche Bank are among
the lenders that regulators in Europe, Asia and the U.S. are
investigating. The U.S. is conducting a criminal investigation.  Confidence in Libor, a benchmark for financial products
valued at $360 trillion worldwide, has been dented by Barclays’
admission that it submitted false London and euro interbank
offered rates.  Robert Diamond  resigned as Barclays’ chief
executive office after the bank was fined 290 million pounds
($456 million).  False Submissions  Derivatives traders requested the false submissions in the
Libor and Euribor setting process, as they were “motivated by
profit and sought to benefit Barclays’ trading positions,” the
U.K. Financial Services Authority said.  The investigation by Schneiderman and Jepsen could broaden
to include additional banks, said the person. Jennifer Givner, a
spokeswoman for Schneiderman, and Jaclyn Falkowski, a
spokeswoman for Jepsen, declined to comment on the subpoenas.  Separately, Florida Attorney General Pam Bondi’s office is
“actively reviewing the Libor matter” and has subpoenaed 14
banks, spokeswoman Jenn Meale said. In addition to the seven
institutions in the New York and Connecticut probe, Florida
subpoenaed  Bank of America Corp. ,  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  Credit
Suisse Group AG (CSGN) ,  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) ,  Royal Bank of Canada ,
Rabobank Groep and Lloyds Banking Group.  Sarah Binnie, a spokeswoman for Edinburgh-based RBS, said
the bank continues to receive requests from various regulators
investigating the setting of Libor and other interest rates. The
lender is cooperating with the investigations and “keeping
relevant regulators informed,” she said in an e-mail.  “It is not possible to estimate with any certainty what
effect these investigations and any related developments may
have on the group,” Binnie said.  Information Requests  Kathryn Hanes, a spokeswoman for Frankfurt-based Deutsche
Bank, said the lender has received subpoenas and requests for
information from some regulators and governmental entities in
the U.S. in connection with setting interbank rates and is
cooperating.  New York-based Citigroup said in a regulatory filing that
subsidiaries “have received additional requests for information
and documents from various U.S. and non-U.S. governmental
agencies, including the offices of the  New York  and Connecticut
attorneys general.”  UBS, based in Zurich, said in a regulatory filing that
numerous agencies, including “various state attorneys general”
are investigating whether there were improper attempts to
manipulate Libor and other rates. A second person familiar with
the matter said the bank received a subpoena from New York in
February. Both declined to comment because the matter is
private.  Regulatory Demands  Nicole Sharp, a spokeswoman for London-based Lloyds Banking
Group, said the company is assisting various regulators in their
investigations.  Royal Bank of Canada (RY)  spokeswoman Katherine Gay
said the bank is also cooperating with regulators.  “We did not find any evidence of collusion with other
banks, and we have determined that our Libor submissions
reflected our perception of our cost of funds,” Gay said in an
e-mailed statement.  London-based HSBC said in a 2012 interim report that it is
“the subject of regulatory demands for information” and is
cooperating with the investigations.  Representatives of the other institutions couldn’t be
reached for comment or declined to comment.  Massachusetts Attorney General  Martha Coakley ’s office said
in July it was also conducting a Libor investigation and was
working with other state agencies.  Libor is derived from a survey of banks conducted each day
on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in London. Lenders
are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one another
for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a set number of quotes are excluded, those remaining are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David McLaughlin in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  