-- Junk-Bond Sales Soar to Record in August: Credit Markets
-- B y   S a r i k a   G a n g a r
-- 2012-08-16T16:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/junk-bond-sales-soar-to-record-in-august-credit-markets.html
Sales of  junk bonds  in the U.S. have
already set a record for August, even as  yields  at about record
lows combined with a slowdown in earnings growth spark concern
the market for the riskiest corporate debt has peaked.  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , the cable-TV provider that
emerged from bankruptcy in 2009, and Energy Future Holdings
Corp., the Texas power producer struggling with $36.6 billion of
long-term debt, are among companies that have  sold  $29.6 billion
of speculative-grade securities this month. That compares with
an average $8.4 billion in August sales for the past five years,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Companies are tapping into an unprecedented $44.9 billion
of cash that has poured into funds that buy junk bonds in 2012
as the fourth year of near-zero short-term  interest rates 
prompts investors to put their money into higher-yielding
assets. Issuance accelerated even as the pace of earnings at
speculative-grade companies slowed in the second quarter and as
U.S. unemployment held above 8 percent for the 42nd month.  “It has become such a feeding frenzy,” Bonnie Baha, who
helps oversee $40 billion as head of global developed credit at
DoubleLine Capital LP in  Los Angeles , said in a telephone
interview. “It’s almost like credit fundamentals don’t even
matter in markets like this. You’ve got too many dollars chasing
too few bonds.”  Junk Yields  The average yield on speculative-grade debt was 7.4 percent
yesterday, 0.2 percentage point from the record low 7.19 percent
reached in May 2011, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data
show. The extra yield investors demand to own the bonds instead
of Treasuries has dropped 135 basis points, or 1.35 percentage
points, since June 5 to 588 basis points.  Concerns the slowing economy will suppress company earnings
and trigger an increase in defaults “have been steamrolled by
the renewed push to reach for yield,” Oleg Melentyev, a New
York-based credit strategist at Bank of America Corp., said in
an Aug. 14 report. Flows into credit funds “in some respect are
reaching bubble levels, never before breached in history.”  Elsewhere in credit markets, the cost to protect against
corporate defaults in the U.S. reached a 10-week low. The extra
yield investors demand to hold the top-ranked portion of bonds
backed by commercial mortgages dropped to the lowest since at
least January 2008.  Swap Spreads  Bonds of New York-based Morgan Stanley were the most
actively traded dollar-denominated corporate securities by
dealers today, with 45 trades of $1 million or more as of 11:55
a.m. in  New York , according to Trace, the bond-price reporting
system of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  The U.S. two-year interest-rate swap spread, a measure of
debt market stress, increased 0.5 basis point to 21 basis
points. The measure, which has declined from a four-month high
of 39.13 on May 15, narrows when investors favor assets such as
corporate bonds and widens when they seek the perceived safety
of  government securities .  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, fell 1.2
basis points to a mid-price of 102 basis points, the lowest
since May 8, according to prices compiled by Bloomberg.  In  London , the  Markit iTraxx Europe Index  of 125 companies
with investment-grade ratings declined 0.8 to 145.5.  Commercial Mortgages  The indexes typically fall as investor confidence improves
and rise as it deteriorates. Credit swaps pay the buyer face
value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  In commercial mortgage-backed  securities market , spreads on
the Barclays CMBS AAA Super Duper Index narrowed 5 basis points
yesterday to 147 basis points. The relative yields have dropped
from 261 basis points at the end of 2011, the index data show.  Junk-bond offerings in August, typically constrained by
U.S. summer holidays, surpassed the previous  record  of $23.7
billion for the month in 2010, Bloomberg data show. Sales are
higher than the monthly average of $16.1 billion the past five
years and less than the $44.7 billion sold in May 2011, the most
in any month. Companies have sold $197 billion of the debt this
year.  Speculative-grade, or junk, bonds are rated below Baa3 by
Moody’s and lower than BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  U.S. investment-grade bond sales in August of $42.7 billion
are below the record $92.7 billion for the month in 2007,
Bloomberg data show.  Not Waiting  “The market’s strong and bankers are certainly pushing
companies to come to the market opportunistically now and not
wait until the September-October time frame,” said Thomas O’Reilly, who co-manages the $3 billion  Neuberger Berman High
Income Bond Fund (NHINX)  in  Chicago .  Charter Communications sold $1.25 billion of 5.25 percent,
10-year debt last week to yield 373 basis points more than
similar-maturity Treasuries, Bloomberg data show. The funds will
help redeem bonds with a 13.5 percent coupon maturing November
2016. The St. Louis-based company exited Chapter 11 bankruptcy
in November 2009 with its debt reduced by about 40 percent, or
about $8 billion.  Energy Future, taken private in 2007 in the largest buyout
in history, sold $850 million of securities in a two-part
offering, including a $600 million add-on to its 11.75 percent
second-lien notes, to repay a loan to one of its units,
Bloomberg data show. The company’s capital structure is complex
and “untenable,” according to Moody’s Investors Service, which
downgraded the company’s debt to Caa3, nine levels below
investment grade, the day the bonds sold on Aug. 9.  Fund Flows  The $44.9 billion deposited into high-yield funds globally
through Aug. 8, as measured by Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
EPFR Global, compares with $14.3 billion in the same period last
year.  Investors are being lured by returns more than seven times
what would be earned holding Treasuries and government agency
debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data show.
Speculative-grade bonds in the U.S. gained 9.65 percent this
year through Aug. 14, compared with 1.32 percent for government
debt, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  While total yields have declined, spreads over government
debt have widened from last year’s low of 452 basis points on
Feb. 21 and are more than pre-credit crisis levels of 291 basis
points at the start of 2007, Bank of America Merrill Lynch index
data show.  Default Rate  At the same time, the trailing 12-month default rate of 2.8
percent in July among global speculative-grade companies has
held below the historical average of 4.8 percent in Moody’s data
going back to 1983. Moody’s projects the rate will increase to
3.1 percent by year-end.  “There’s a certain resilience in the high-yield market,”
Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery
Scott LLC in Philadelphia, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
still our No. 1 asset class pick for the balance of 2012.”  The rally may be pressured as the economy slows, Bank of
America’s Melentyev said.  Speculative-grade companies reported growth in earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or
Ebitda, of 1.2 percent in the second quarter, down from high
single-digit growth in the past few quarters, the analyst said
in the research note this week.  ‘Economically Sensitive’  “You take a step back and ask the question, ‘Let’s look at
valuations; what’s happened with the balance sheets behind this
market?’ and it just doesn’t add up,” Melentyev said. “High-
yield is an economically sensitive market, as opposed to
investment-grade which is much less so, and is very sensitive to
risk appetite.”  The  International Monetary Fund  on July 16 cut its global
growth forecast for 2013 to 3.9 percent from a 4.1 percent
estimate in April. The European Commission forecasts a 0.3
percent contraction for the 17-nation euro economy this year.
The Italian economy contracted 0.7 percent in the second
quarter, extending a recession that started last year, while
Spanish GDP fell 0.4 percent.  The U.S. unemployment rate was 8.3 percent in July, up from
8.2 percent the previous month, according to the Labor
Department in  Washington .  “There’s this cavalier attitude that nothing bad is going
to happen and all of these credits are going to do fine,” Baha
said. “The magnitude of the bust is usually equal to or greater
than the magnitude of the boom. I can’t help but think that
there’s going to be a day of reckoning.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarika Gangar in New York at 
 sgangar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  