-- Kasowitz Benson, Slaughter and May, Debevoise: Business of Law
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-08-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/kasowitz-benson-slaughter-and-may-debevoise-business-of-law.html
A  New York  law firm that represented
 Paul Ceglia  in his claims to own part of  Facebook Inc. (FB)  quit
after it determined the contract on which he based his case was
a fraud, according to a letter cited by a judge.  The letter was sent by Kasowitz Benson Torres & Friedman
LLP to two other firms that formerly represented Ceglia, DLA
Piper LLP and Lippes Mathias Wexler Friedman LLP, according to
an order filed yesterday in federal court in Buffalo, New York.  U.S. Magistrate Leslie Foschio yesterday fined Ceglia and
his current lawyer, Dean Boland, $2,000 for failing to obey
earlier orders to produce the document, calling their conduct
“beyond disrespect.” The judge disclosed the subject of the
letter, which wasn’t made public, in the order, which requires
Ceglia to turn it over to Facebook within three days.  The three firms quit in June 2011 after less than three
months on the case, without giving a reason. DLA Piper, which
has 4,200 lawyers, is one of the biggest law firms in the world.
The Lippes Mathias team was headed by former New York Attorney
General Dennis Vacco.  Facebook is trying to get Ceglia’s suit dismissed, arguing
the case is a fraud.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  News  Standard Chartered’s N.Y. Probe Ends as U.S. Inquiries Loom  Slaughter and May  and Sullivan & Cromwell LLP assisted
 Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  in its $340 million Aug. 14 settlement
with the New York State Department of Financial Services in its
money laundering probe.  Slaughter and May corporate partner Nigel Boardman and
dispute resolution partner Richard Swallow and Sullivan &
Cromwell’s corporate and financing partner Rodgin Cohen and
dispute resolution partner Samuel Seymour were the key lawyer
contacts, according to Slaughter and May’s website.  On Aug. 6, New York financial regulator  Benjamin Lawsky 
issued an order alleging Standard Chartered helped Iran launder
about $250 billion in violation of federal laws. He accused the
bank of a decade of deception, including keeping false records,
in handling lucrative wire transfers for Iranian clients. The
bank sent them through its New York unit in so-called U-Turn
transactions with client names omitted to hide their provenance,
Lawsky said.  The  New York regulator  said yesterday in a statement that
“the parties have agreed that the conduct at issue involved
transactions of at least $250 billion.” The $340 million fine
will go to Lawsky’s agency, New York’s Department of Financial
Services, or DFS, and the state.  As part of the settlement, New York said the bank agreed to
install an independent on-site monitor for at least two years
who will report directly to regulators. Examiners from the DFS
will also be placed at the bank.  Standard Chartered  said in a statement yesterday that “a
formal agreement containing the detailed terms of the settlement
is expected to be concluded shortly.” It “continues to engage
constructively with the other relevant U.S. authorities,” the
bank said.  For more, click here.  U.S. Workers’ Wage-and-Hour Suits Rise in Precarious Job Market  Lawsuits by U.S. workers contesting  wages and hours ,
including demands for overtime pay, reached a 20-year high this
year as unemployment remained above 8 percent.  There were 7,064 federal wage-and-hour cases filed during
the 12 months ending March 31, a number that has grown almost
every year since 2000, when the total was 1,854, according to
the Administrative Office of the U.S. Courts, which plans to
release the data publicly later this year.  The recession and the  unemployment  rate contributed to the
rise, said  Richard Alfred , chairman of the national wage and
hour litigation practice at Seyfarth Shaw LLP, who represents
companies in lawsuits brought by groups of workers. His firm
 reported  the 2012 data in July.  “When employees are laid off, that may be an opportunity
for them to seek legal counsel either to see if there’s any
basis for contesting their termination or to make sure that what
they’re receiving in severance or other benefits is proper,”
Alfred said in a telephone interview.  Jason Rozger , a partner at Beranbaum Menken LLP in New
York, which represents employees, said high unemployment gives
companies leverage to compel work off the clock because people
are worried about losing their jobs. That changes once they get
fired, he said.  Attorneys for terminated employees seeking advice may be
prompted to look into wage-and-hour lawsuits, Alfred said.  “I don’t suggest these cases are brought in such a
cavalier way, but they’re complicated,” he said.  Different courts have reached different conclusions on the
same questions, such as which employees are entitled to overtime
pay, he said.  For more, click here.  News Corp. Revamps Ethics-Oversight Program After Scandal  News Corp. (NWSA) , the media company run by billionaire  Rupert
Murdoch , revamped its compliance and ethics program following
last year’s phone-hacking scandal at its U.K. newspaper
business.  News Corp.’s general counsel,  Gerson Zweifach , will now
serve as chief compliance officer, according to a memo sent to
employees yesterday. As part of the effort, business units will
be organized into five compliance groups: Los Angeles cable and
broadcast; film and TV production;  Europe  and  Asia ; Australian
operations; and New York news.  News Corp., based in New York, is streamlining its
compliance rules as the company prepares to spin off its
publishing division into a separately traded public business, a
process that is slated to take about a year to complete.  The company has been trying to move past a hacking scandal
that erupted last year after reports that one of its newspapers
in the U.K. accessed the voice mail of a murdered teenager,
Milly Dowler. Rebekah Brooks, the former head of the company’s
British division, was charged by  London  police this month for
her part in those alleged crimes.  Authorities in the U.K. are considering whether to bring
corporate charges against News Corp.’s board for hacking and
bribery. About 60 people have been arrested in connection to
those allegations, including at least eight former journalists.  For more, click here.  Deals  Carlyle Buys Getty From Hellman & Friedman for $3.3 Billion  Carlyle Group LP (CG) , the world’s second-largest private-equity
firm, agreed to buy photo archive  Getty Images  Inc. from Hellman
& Friedman LLC in a deal valued at $3.3 billion.  Carlyle was advised by Debevoise & Plimpton LLP, and Getty
Images was advised by Weil Gotshal & Manges LLP and Simpson
Thacher & Bartlett LLP. Davis Polk & Wardwell LLP is advising
Getty Investments.  The Debevoise team was led by partners Paul S. Bird and
Jonathan E. Levitsky, and included partners David A. Brittenham,
Jeffrey P. Cunard, Peter A. Furci and Elizabeth Pagel Serebransky,  Simpson Thacher partners included Chad Skinner, mergers and
acquisitions; Katharine Moir, tax; Tristan Brown, ECEB; and Bill Brentani and Brian Steinhardt, credit.  The Weil team was led by Silicon Valley corporate partner
Kyle Krpata and included Silicon Valley intellectual property
transaction partner Karen Ballack and corporate partner Craig Adas. London competition partner Douglas Nave and New York
corporate partners Michael Nissan and Richard Ginsburg also
assisted on the deal.  The Davis Polk corporate team includes partners Daniel G. Kelly Jr. and Sarah K. Solum. The tax team includes partner
Kathleen L. Ferrell, Partner Frank J. Azzopardi is providing
intellectual property advice. Members of the Davis Polk team are
based in the  Menlo Park  and New York offices.  Carlyle will acquire a controlling stake in the company,
while Getty co-founder and Chairman Mark Getty and the Getty
family will roll “substantially all” of their ownership
interests into the transaction, Washington-based Carlyle said
yesterday in a statement. Getty Images’ management, including
co-founder and Chief Executive Officer Jonathan Klein, will also
invest “significant equity” in the company, Carlyle said.  For more, click here.  Moves  Zhao to Lead McDermott’s Team Advising Chinese Companies  McDermott Will & Emery LLP announced the appointment of
international dealmaker Winston (Jiusu) Zhao as head of its
 China  Outbound Transactions team. He joins McDermott from the
 Shanghai  office of  Jones Day , the firm said.  Zhao will be based in Shanghai at MWE China, McDermott’s
strategic alliance firm in China, where he will build a team of
lawyers from across the firm, who will focus on providing
Chinese companies looking to make investments outside of China
with legal services ranging from corporate, to intellectual
property to international tax planning. Zhao will also be a
member of the firm’s china management committee.  Zhao has more than 20 years of experience advising
companies in their international corporate and commercial
projects in China, including cross-border mergers and
acquisitions operations, China inbound and outbound investments,
corporate restructuring, corporate finance, IP and product
liability matters, the firm said.  McDermott Will has more than 1,000 lawyers, with 17 offices
in the U.S., Europe and a strategic alliance in Shanghai.  Sheppard Mullin Hires Beijing Lawyer Simon Kai-Tse Cheong  Simon Kai-Tse Cheong has joined Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton LLP as a partner in the firm’s corporate and finance and
bankruptcy practice groups, in the Beijing office. Cheong joins
from the Chinese law firm Zhong Lun in Beijing, the firm said.  Cheong has more than 16 years of experience advising
multinational companies and financial institutions on cross-
border mergers and acquisitions and financing matters. In
addition to his private practice experience, Cheong served as
senior counsel for the World Bank Group’s International Finance
Corporation and was responsible for managing the IFC’s legal
activities in mainland China, the firm said.  Cheong’s clients have included multilateral and government
institutions such as the IFC, China-ASEAN Investment Cooperation
Fund, the Swedish Export Credit Corporation, KfW IPEX-Bank, and
the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation.  Sheppard Mullin has close to 600 attorneys in 15 offices
located in the U.S., Europe and Asia.  Locke Lord’s Hires Litigation Partner in New York Office  Antitrust litigation partner Paul Kaplan has joined Locke
Lord LLP’s New York office as part of the firm’s litigation
department and antitrust practice group. Previously he was a
partner in the New York office of Alston & Bird LLP, the firm
said.  Kaplan brings more than 25 years of experience in handling
litigation and counseling for major corporations as well as for
domestic and international financial institutions.  Locke Lord has more than 650 lawyers in 13 offices in the
U.S., London and  Hong Kong .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in  Brooklyn , New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 