-- N.J. Revenue May Be $540 Million Off Target, Analyst Says
-- B y   E l i s e   Y o u n g
-- 2012-08-17T15:09:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/n-j-revenue-540-million-off-annual-target-budget-analyst-says.html
New Jersey ’s revenue collections
were as much as $540 million less than targeted by Governor
 Chris Christie  through the fiscal year ended June 30, according
to a memo from the nonpartisan Office of Legislative Services.  The total was $24.2 billion, compared with $24.7 billion
projected by Treasurer Andrew Sidamon-Eristoff, according to
 David Rosen , legislative budget officer. The gap will narrow by
as much as $300 million after year-end accounting adjustments,
Rosen wrote in a letter yesterday to Senator Barbara Buono, a
Metuchen Democrat who requested an analysis.  “Even allowing for typical adjustments of $200 million to
$300 million, that means we will have started off this fiscal
year with about half of Governor Christie’s projected surplus
already gone,” Buono said in a statement.  The state is in the process of shifting some of July’s cash
collections to the fiscal year that ended June 30 in order to
achieve balance. This is a typical accounting process, according
to Rosen and  Kevin Roberts , a Christie spokesman.  “Whether it is this year, last year, five or 10 years ago,
the process of closing out a fiscal year and moving from one to
another always includes accounting adjustments and transfer
between fiscal years,” Roberts said in an e-mail.  Partial Report  Because those adjustments aren’t complete, the revenue
figures released yesterday are preliminary, and it is premature
to report a shortfall, Roberts said.  The Christie administration on Aug. 15 released only
partial revenue figures for July. That prompted criticism from
Buono, who said the governor wasn’t obeying his own executive
order signed in January 2010, his first month in office, which
stipulates that revenue reports be issued monthly.  Sidamon-Eristoff’s office released more July figures late
yesterday. Revenue was $304 million, 5.5 percent under target,
as casino taxes were 30 percent less than projected. The report
didn’t disclose whether sales-tax collections, one of the
state’s biggest revenue sources, met goals.  Collections Rise  Collections for all of the state’s major revenues were 2.5
percent higher last month than in July 2011, Sidamon-Eristoff
said in a statement. Corporate taxes were 26 percent higher and
sales levies were 4.4 lower, while income taxes were up by 10
percent.  “The fact that July collections were significantly higher
is a clear signal that the economy continues to grow,” Sidamon-
Eristoff said.  Christie has traveled the state touting a “Jersey
Comeback,” an economic-recovery plan that includes a  tax cut .
The $31.7 billion budget for fiscal 2013 didn’t include a tax
reduction because Democrats, who control the Legislature,
weren’t certain whether revenue would meet Christie’s targets.
His plan maintained a surplus of more than $600 million.  The governor has said his tax cut will help create jobs.
New Jersey’s unemployment rate jumped to a 35-year high of 9.8
percent in July, the state Labor Department said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elise Young in Trenton at 
 eyoung30@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  