-- N.Z. Producer Prices Post Slowest Annual Gain in Two Years
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-08-16T22:58:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/n-z-producer-prices-post-slowest-annual-gain-in-two-years.html
Prices paid by  New Zealand  farms,
factories and other producers for commodities and services rose
at the slowest annual pace in more than two years, a sign that
wholesale inflation is contained.  Producer input prices increased 1.9 percent in the second
quarter from the year-earlier period,  Statistics New Zealand 
said in Wellington today. That was the smallest annual rise
since the first quarter of 2010. Prices rose 0.6 percent from
the first quarter.  Prices paid by dairy manufacturers fell 14 percent from the
year-earlier quarter as global milk prices dropped. Prices for
logs and meat also had annual declines, today’s report showed.  In the quarter, prices paid by electricity retailers rose
8.2 percent as lower flows into hydro storage lakes pushed up
wholesale power prices, today’s report showed. Rising crude oil
prices and refining fees increased costs for the  petroleum
industry .  New Zealand’s dollar fell in the quarter, increasing prices
of imported goods. The currency weakened 6.2 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  and also declined against the yen, pound and euro
during the period, the statistics agency said. The  price index 
is calculated based on exchange rates as of May 15 compared with
Feb. 15.  Producer output  prices, which are paid to factories, farms
and other producers, rose 0.3 percent from the first quarter,
the agency said. From a year earlier, output prices gained 0.5
percent, also the smallest annual increase since the first
quarter of 2010.  Electricity generators and retailers received more for the
power they produced and sold as market prices increased, the
statistics agency said. Rentals for office property gained the
most since records began in 1994.  Payments to dairy farmers fell 6.9 percent from the first
quarter after Fonterra Cooperative Group Ltd., the world’s
largest dairy exporter, reduced its payments to suppliers,
citing falling world prices and a rising currency.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  