-- Nazi-Looted Medieval Sculpture Returns to Family
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-08-16T12:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/nazi-looted-medieval-sculpture-returns-to-family.html
A 500-year-old sculpture looted by
the Nazis for  Adolf Hitler ’s planned “Fuehrermuseum” in the
Austrian city of Linz was today returned to heirs of the
original owner by Dresden’s state art collections.  The wooden sculpture of St. Peter was one of about 560
artworks seized from Jewish collectors for Hitler’s museum. The
Germany-based family to whom the sculpture has been restituted
does not wish to be identified by name and plans to keep the
artwork, according to Gilbert Lupfer, the head of provenance
research for Dresden’s  public art collections .  “The sculpture is late Gothic and may have come from an
altar, probably from the Rhineland or somewhere in southwestern
 Germany ,” Lupfer said by telephone from Dresden. It has been on
display in Meissen and Chemnitz, he said.  A fan of German and Austrian 19th-century painting and
himself a failed artist, Hitler planned to build the
Fuehrermuseum in Linz after World War II.  He assigned Hans Posse, then director of the Dresden
Gemaeldegalerie, the task of collecting paintings, sculptures,
furniture, porcelain and tapestries. More than 4,700 objects are
listed on a  database  of the collection on the  Deutsches
Historisches Museum ’s website.  The museum was never built, and some of the works stayed in
Dresden after the war: Others were stored in the “Fuehrerbau”
in Munich.  Dresden established a  provenance research unit  in 2008 to
research the history of objects in its collection that arrived
after 1933. As well as restitutions to the heirs of Jewish
collectors persecuted by the Nazis, the city has returned art
and artifacts, including porcelain, to the heirs of aristocratic
families dispossessed under communism in 1945 and 1946.  To contact the writer on the story:
Catherine Hickley in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 