-- Neo-Gothic Brain Transplant; Menacing ’Frostydickfantasy’
-- B y   L a n c e   E s p l u n d
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/neo-gothic-brain-transplant-menacing-frostydickfantasy-.html
A doll receives a brain transplant
in a tailor shop, and a crucified pocket watch spews viscera --
welcome to the romantic-grotesque world of the Quay Brothers.  These are scenes from their 1986 film “Street of
Crocodiles,” which put the identical twins on the map.  Stephen and Timothy Quay, born in 1947 in  Pennsylvania  and
longtime Londoners, are best known as neo-Gothic fabulists who
create psychosexual and surreal stop-motion animations employing
antiquated puppets, dolls, stuffed animals and machinery.  The Museum of  Modern Art ’s retrospective, “Quay Brothers:
On Deciphering the Pharmacist’s Prescription for Lip-Reading
Puppets,” exhibits a full range of their multifaceted work --
from designs for theater, opera, dance, posters and book and
record-album covers to television commercials, experimental
films and music videos, such as Peter Gabriel’s “Sledgehammer.”  A dark, cramped, labyrinthine funhouse installed on two
floors, the show’s main attractions are the roughly seven hours
of film, projected across walls and unspooled in tight corners
and mini-theaters, and the actual puppets, props and decors --
small stage-set dioramas in which the movies came to life.  Inspiration for their work comes from the Victorian
wonderlands of Joseph Cornell, the mystical dreamscapes of
Odilon Redon, the macabre mise-en-scenes of Hieronymus Bosch,
 Max Ernst  and Hans Bellmer, the films of  Luis Bunuel  and the
literature of  Franz Kafka  and Edgar Allan Poe.  Yet their primary influence, unfortunately, is  Salvador Dali ’s melting clocks -- a celebration of the ambiguous and
illogical imagery of dreams.  As weird, entertaining and fastidious as their work is,
there is little here that is truly original or even surprising.
Overall, it represents a rehashing of the most mundane of
Surrealist sensibilities -- an inherited mannerism in which
eccentricity stands in for poetry and mystery.  Andre Masson, one of Surrealism’s founders, saw it coming: “The
meeting of the umbrella and the sewing-machine on the operating
table happened only once,” he wrote in 1944. “Traced, repeated
over and over again, mechanized, the unusual vulgarizes itself.”  “Quay Brothers” runs through Jan. 7 at the  Museum of Modern
Art , 11 W. 53rd St. Information: +1-212-708-9400;
 http://www.moma.org .  John Chamberlain  Four of John Chamberlain’s large, whimsical abstract
sculptures are currently enlivening the plaza of the Seagram
Building (designed by  Philip Johnson  and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe).  Unlike the robust metal sculptures crafted out of his
signature junkyard material -- cut and crushed automotive parts,
particularly chrome bumpers -- Chamberlain (1927-2011)
originally fashioned the Seagram grouping at tabletop scale out
of crumpled household aluminum foil.  Twisting like vines, flaring like horns, these looping,
tubular works suggest a cross between futuristic flora and Dr.
Seuss contraptions.  “ROBUSTFAGOTTO” (2008), like a pitcher winding up on the
mound, and “PINEAPPLESURPRISE” (2010), which resembles the head
of Medusa on the body of a giant snail, both shine like new
pennies.  Coiled like a snake, “MERMAIDSMISCHIEF” (2009) gleams
metallic green. And the menacing “FROSTYDICKFANTASY” (2008), in
cool silver, sprouts enormous cleavers, flippers or wings.  Though not Chamberlain’s strongest, these sculptures add
spry, colorful counterpoint to Johnson and Mies’s monument to
corporate modernism.  “John Chamberlain,” presented by Gagosian Gallery, runs
through Nov. 16 at the Park Avenue plaza outside the Seagram
Building, 375 Park Ave. Information: +1-212-744-2313;
 http://www.gagosian.com .  Ruth Abrams  Abstract Expressionism’s macho, clubhouse mentality is
often cited as the primary reason more mid-20th-century American
women artists were not recognized in their time and still remain
undervalued.  Yeshiva University Museum’s compact survey of Ruth Abrams
(1912-1986), aims to revive the reputation of a painter who,
though at the center of the  New York  School, is all but
forgotten.  Abrams’s career is presented here through approximately 30
abstractions, still lifes, interiors, landscapes, figure
paintings and collages.  There is also a short cosmic film, “Paradox of the Big”
(1974), and groupings from her “Microcosm” series -- tiny
landscape fragments and abstract oil studies on paper.  Expressionism and domesticity, figuration and abstraction
all flow easily into one another, and the show reveals a
competent individualist who embraced both the New York School
and European Modernism.  In “Conversation in Corfu” (1983-85),  Pierre Bonnard ’s fire
pours through an open window, threatening to envelop its
inhabitants.  Studies of Fire Island recall Helen Frankenthaler and Albert
Pinkham Ryder. Other works pay homage to  Fernand Leger , Georges Rouault
and Abrams’s teacher Arshile Gorky.  But it will take a larger, better-chosen retrospective to
make the case that Abrams is more than another among many
second-tier members of the New York School.  “Microcosms: Ruth Abrams, Abstract Expressionist” runs
through Jan. 6 at the Yeshiva University Museum, 15 W. 16th St.
Information: +1-212-294-8330;  http://www.yumuseum.org .  (Lance Esplund is U.S. art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  car  and  dining  reviews.  To contact the writer on the story:
Lance Esplund, in New York, at  lesplund@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 