-- Nestle Loses Bid to Bar Sales of Rival Nespresso Capsules
-- B y   K a r i n   M a t u s s e k   a n d   D e r m o t   D o h e r t y
-- 2012-08-16T15:39:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/nestle-loses-bid-to-block-sales-of-rival-nespresso-capsules-1-.html
Nestle SA (NESN) , the world’s biggest food
company, lost court rulings over attempts to stop companies from
selling rival capsules compatible with Nespresso machines in
 Germany .  Nestle’s patents for the coffee machine system don’t
prevent consumers from using other capsules, the Dusseldorf
Regional Court said in an e-mailed statement today. The capsules
are neither the key component nor a “special feature” of the
protected invention, the judges said.  Nespresso faces increased competition as food companies
including  DE Master Blenders 1753 (DE)  seek to sell single-serve
capsules that can be used with Nespresso machines. The German
court’s decisions came from Vevey, Switzerland-based Nestle’s
suits against Ethical Coffee Co. and Betron AG.  “This is not the end of the story,” said  Warren Ackerman ,
an analyst at  Societe Generale  in  London . “There’ll be more
court cases and this is just one small battle in the war.”  Nestle, which had asked for a preliminary injunction under
fast-track proceedings, can ask the court to hear the case under
full civil-trial process in an effort to get a different
decision and can also appeal today’s judgment.  “We are convinced of the power of our legal arguments and
will thus take further steps to defend our intellectual
property,” Holger Feldmann, managing director of Nestle’s
German Nespresso unit, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Competition must be fair and rules must be the same for all.”  France, Austria  Master Blenders markets its L’Or capsules in  France , the
Netherlands, Belgium and Spain, while Ethical Coffee’s rival
capsules are available at least 10 countries including Austria
and Germany. Both Betron and Ethical Coffee are selling capsules
that say they are “usable for Nespresso machines” at prices
that are as much as a third cheaper than the Nestle capsules,
according to the court.  “Since the buyer acquires the right to use the machine,
there is no patent violation when he uses capsules of other
producers,” the German court said.  Nespresso, which produced 3.5 billion Swiss francs ($3.6
billion) in revenue in 2011, or 4 percent of Nestle’s sales, has
been one of the company’s fastest-growing brands. Sales are
increasing about 20 percent annually and Nespresso continues to
take market share even as new competitors arise, Ackerman said.  Nestle fell as much as 1.1 percent. The  stock closed down 
0.66 percent in Zurich.  Today’s cases are: LG Dusseldorf, 4b O 81/12 and 4b O
82/12.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Karin Matussek in Berlin at 
 kmatussek@bloomberg.net   Dermot Doherty in Geneva at 
 ddoherty9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@Bloomberg.net . 