-- NetEase Tumbles Most Since 2005 as Sina Rallies: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-08-16T21:53:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/netease-leads-retreat-on-profit-disappointment-china-overnight.html
NetEase Inc. (NTES)  plunged the most in six
years, leading declines in Chinese equities traded in New York,
after the online games company reported second-quarter earnings
that trailed analysts’ estimates.  The  Bloomberg China-US Equity Index (CH55BN)  of the most-traded
Chinese companies in the U.S. retreated 0.9 percent to 91.69
yesterday. NetEase sank 15 percent, the most since November
2005, as profit and sales for the second quarter were below
estimates.  China Mobile Ltd. (CHL)  slid the most in three years on
slower profit growth while Sina Corp. jumped to a two-month high
as net income tripled.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co Ltd. (QIHU)  rose to the
highest level since June after starting an online search engine.  Foreign direct investment in China declined 8.7 percent in
July from a year earlier to $7.58 billion, the smallest inflow
in two years, Commerce Ministry data showed yesterday. Forty-
seven percent of the 32 largest U.S.-listed Chinese companies
that  reported earnings  since mid-July have missed analysts’
average sales estimates, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Twenty-three percent missed sales projections in the
same period last year.  “NetEase’s quarter-on-quarter sales drop was unexpected,
and their results are likely to be soft for the third quarter or
even in the fourth quarter,” Andy Yeung, a technology and
Internet companies analyst at Oppenheimer & Co., said by phone
from  New York  yesterday. “The market seems to be responding to
results and expectations for individual companies.”  China ETF Slumps  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., dropped 0.9 percent to $34.62,
down the most in two weeks. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index of
the biggest U.S. shares gained 0.7 percent to a four-month high
of 1,415.51, after U.S. building permits, a proxy for future
construction, jumped in July to a four-year peak.  China’s exports grew 1 percent in July after climbing 11.3
percent in June and inflation eased to 1 percent, the slowest
pace since January 2010, government data showed last week.
Policy makers cut  interest rates  in June and July after two
reductions in banks’ reserve-requirement ratios this year, as
the  economy  decelerated for a sixth quarter.  “The market is basically fighting between the poorer-than-
expected economic data and the potential for stimulus that could
come, the two forces that are affecting daily moves,” Sam
Mahtani, who oversees about $5 billion as director of  emerging
markets  at  F&C Asset Management Plc (FCAM)  in  London , said by phone
yesterday.  Beijing-based NetEase, China’s second-biggest online games
operator, sank 15 percent to $49.56 in New York.  NetEase Earnings  The company’s second-quarter profit of $137.8 million
trailed the $140.6 million  average forecast  of eight analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Its sales of $315.5 million missed the
average projection of $334.4 million, according to the company’s
statement on Aug. 15.  American depositary receipts of China Mobile, the world’s
biggest phone company by subscribers, plunged 7 percent to
$54.74, the steepest drop since November 2008. The ADRs traded
2.2 percent below its  Hong Kong  shares, the widest  discount 
since Sept. 22.  Profit at the Beijing-based carrier in the three months
ended in June fell to 34.40 billion  yuan  ($5.4 billion) from
34.42 billion yuan a year earlier, according to figures derived
by Bloomberg News from half-year numbers reported yesterday.  Chief Executive Officer Li Yue is boosting  capital spending 
to invest in a fourth-generation network and planning 26 billion
yuan in handset subsidies to maintain his lead in smartphone
users over rivals  China Unicom (Hong Kong) Ltd. (CHU)  and China
Telecom Corp. Growth in net income may be 1 percent this year,
down from 5 percent last year and the slowest pace since 1999.  “China Mobile’s profit was lower than expected, so some
investors may take the opportunity to take profit after its
stock rose more than 20 percent this year,” Jun Zhang, an
analyst at Wedge Partners Corp. in  Greenwood Village ,  Colorado ,
said by phone yesterday.  The decline in China Mobile’s ADRs trimmed its  gain this
year  to 13 percent, compared with Unicom’s 26 percent loss and
China Telecom’s decrease of 7.4 percent. China Unicom and China
Telecom will report second-quarter results next week.  Sina, which provides the Twitter-like Weibo service in
 China , jumped 10 percent to $56.19, the highest level since June
19.  Net income tripled to $33.2 million in the second quarter
from $10 million a year earlier, Shanghai-based Sina said in a
statement yesterday. The company was expected to post a loss of
$3.9 million, according to the average of 11 analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg.  Weibo Outlook  Weibo had about 80 advertising customers in the second-
quarter and the number will “probably double” by the end of
the year, CEO Charles Chao said in a conference call yesterday.
Weibo contributed about 10 percent of revenue in the second
quarter, he said.  Qihoo, the maker of China’s most-used Web browser, climbed
5.4 percent to a two-month high of $18.66.  The company’s new search engine went online yesterday for
public testing and the product may eventually generate
advertising sales from the product, Co-Chief Financial Officer
Alex Xu said in a phone interview yesterday, without providing a
time frame.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  slid for a second day, losing
0.3 percent to a two-week low of 2,112.20. The  Hang Seng China
Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  of Chinese companies traded in Hong Kong
dipped 0.4 percent to 9,741.78.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tal Barak Harif at 
 tbarak@bloomberg.net  