-- New York University Sued Over Village Development Plans
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/new-york-university-sued-over-village-development-plans.html
New York  University faces a lawsuit
in state court by tenants of rent-stabilized apartments at
Washington Square Village over the school’s development plans
for the area.  The New York City Council voted last month to allow  New
York University  to add 1.9 million square feet to its Greenwich
Village campus for classrooms, a gym and housing in the face of
objections from residents and faculty who said it would change
the character of the neighborhood.  The lawsuit was filed yesterday in New York State Supreme
Court in Manhattan seeks a court order stopping the university
from taking any action that would eliminate a two-acre park in
the middle of Washington Square Village, as well as a commercial
strip and a garden that form the boundary of the park.
Washington Square Village is a group of high-rise apartment
buildings bordered by West Third Street, Mercer Street, Bleecker
Street and LaGuardia Place.  “Subjecting plaintiffs and other rent-stabilized tenants
to 20 years of major construction and the destruction of the WSV
park and the destruction of the LaGuardia strip (which includes
the one supermarket in the neighborhood that delivers) is
clearly an attempt to forcibly evict the plaintiffs and other
rent stabilized tents at WSV,” the tenants said in their
complaint.  School Growth  The school, whose enrollment of 41,000 makes it the largest
private, nonprofit university in the U.S., is seeking to
accommodate plans to grow to 46,500 by 2031, President John Sexton told the city council in June.  “NYU’s proposal to build new academic facilities, student
dormitories and faculty housing went through a five-year
planning and consultation process,” the university said in a
statement. “The City Planning Commission and City Council
overwhelmingly approved NYU’s proposal after holding lengthy
public hearings and engaging in a through and rigorous public
review process as required by law. We are confident that we will
prevail in court against any claims that were made.”  Greenwich Village, between Houston Street and 14th Street,
has been home to artists, writers and musicians, including
 Edward Hopper ,  Jackson Pollock ,  Henry James , Edgar Allan Poe,
 Mark Twain  and  Bob Dylan . Actor  Matthew Broderick  joined
hundreds of neighbors at a council meeting in June to oppose the
plan.  The case is WSV Green Neighbors Inc. v. New York
University, 155507/2012, New York State Supreme Court
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at   adunn8@bloomberg.net  