-- New York’s Tavern on the Green to Reopen Under New Management
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-08-16T20:14:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/new-york-s-tavern-on-the-green-to-reopen-under-new-management.html
New York ’s  Tavern on the Green , the
 Central Park  restaurant popular with tourists that closed in
2009, will reopen next year as a casual eatery operated by the
Emerald Green Group of Philadelphia, city officials said.  Emerald Green principals Jim Caiola and David Salama have
operated  Beau Monde/L’etage  in Philadelphia for more than a
decade, Parks Commissioner Adrian Benepe said in a news release.
Katy Sparks has been hired as executive chef, after having
worked at Bobby Flay’s Mesa Grill and Bolo as well as the
Quilted Giraffe, all in  Manhattan .  “They have done an outstanding job with Beau Monde in
Philadelphia and their vision for the iconic Tavern on the Green
will create a casual restaurant and outdoor café that everyday
park-goers, neighbors and visitors can enjoy,” Benepe said in a
statement.  The deal, if approved by the city’s Franchise Concession
and Review Committee in September, will provide a 20-year
operating agreement in which Emerald Green would pay the city
the larger amount of either $1 million or 6 percent of gross
receipts for the first year, with the terms gradually escalating
to $1 million or 15 percent of gross receipts, whichever is
more, said Phil Abramson, a spokesman for the Parks Department.  Tavern on the Green, designed and built in the second half
of the 19th century, was originally called the Sheepfold because
it housed 200 of the animals that grazed nearby. It was
converted to a restaurant in 1934 by then-Parks Commissioner
Robert Moses.  Treasured Landmark  “It is one of the city’s finest examples of Victorian
Gothic architecture and one of the park’s most treasured
landmarked buildings,” the Parks and Recreation Department said
in the release.  Operated by restaurateur Warner LeRoy and his family since
1974, Tavern on the Green filed for  bankruptcy protection  in
2009 after the city awarded the license to a higher bidder. In
2008, it was the second-highest-grossing restaurant in the U.S.,
with about $27 million in annual sales, according to Restaurants
& Institutions magazine. Taos  Las Vegas  ranked first.  The restaurant, near the West 67th Street entrance to the
843-acre park, is familiar to tens of thousands of people as the
site of the finish line of the New York City Marathon. The
renovated Tavern will accommodate as many as 300 diners inside
and 300 outdoors, city officials said.  Central Park attracts more than 40 million visitors a year,
making it the most visited park in the U.S., the department
said. Its popularity created a need for more services and
amenities, and city officials decided to transform the Tavern on
the Green from a venue for formal dining and catering to a focus
on serving visitors and local residents, the department said.  The Parks Department is part of the administration of Mayor
 Michael Bloomberg , founder and majority owner of Bloomberg news
parent Bloomberg LP.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman in New York at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelmana at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net . 