-- New York Times Has Enough Cash To Go Private
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2012-08-16T21:24:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/new-york-times-has-enough-cash-to-go-private-real-m-a.html
New York Times Co. (NYT) , after losing $7
billion in market value since 1999 amid plummeting industry
advertising sales, is better positioned than ever to go private
as  Mark Thompson  takes the reins.  Thompson, who slashed more than $1.6 billion in expenses as
director general of the private, nonprofit British Broadcasting
Corp., was named chief executive officer this week of the
publisher controlled by the Ochs-Sulzberger family. Times Co.
would have about $840 million in  cash  and short-term investments
-- equal to 61 percent of its $1.37 billion market value -- if
it succeeds in selling how-to website About.com. That would be
more cash versus its market value than any U.S. publisher worth
$200 million or more, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Times Co., after five straight years of  declining revenue 
and more than $300 million in net losses since 2005, slumped to
its lowest valuation on record relative to earnings in June. The
company has sold off regional newspapers and a stake in the
Boston Red Sox, eliminated its  dividend  and is working on
lowering its pension liability. As Times Co. slims down, the
family could buy back the business and remove it from public-
market scrutiny, according to DeSilva & Phillips LLC.  “Now would be a good time for the company to go private,”
said Reed Phillips, managing partner and co-founder of DeSilva &
Phillips, a New York-based investment bank that focuses on the
 media industry . “The Times and other print newspapers are at an
all-time low in valuations. They have been ‘cleaning up’ the
business by selling off orphan assets for some time now.”  About.com Sale  “The company does not plan to go private and is not for
sale,” said  Robert Christie , a spokesman for Times Co.  Today, shares of Times Co. increased 1.8 percent to $9.39,
the highest closing price since April 2011. The stock rose for a
10th straight day, the longest stretch of gains since December
2000.  Times Co.  said  last week that it was in talks to unload
 About.com , which has struggled to attract users and ad dollars.
The company is trying to sell the Web property to St. Louis-
based Answers.com for $270 million, a person with knowledge of
the deal said last week. While the company purchased About.com
in 2005 for $410 million, the unit posted an operating  loss  last
quarter as the company wrote down some of the value of the
business. Answers.com didn’t respond to requests for comment.  If the sale is successful, Times Co.’s cash holdings will
reach $840 million, based on the company’s cash, equivalents and
short-term investments at the end of the second quarter. That
would give it more cash than debt, and an  enterprise value  of
about $1.31 billion, down from $1.58 billion as of yesterday’s
close, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Rising Cash  The mounting cash pile would make it easier for the company
to go private, according to Phillips. Excess cash is typically
tapped to help pay off the debt used to finance a going-private
transaction.  Currently, the company’s $570 million in  cash  represents
about 42 percent of its market value. U.S. publishing companies
with market capitalizations higher than $200 million have only
15 cents in cash for every dollar of market value, on average,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Times Co. hasn’t been rewarded for being a public company.
The stock is down 83 percent from its  peak  in 2002, and the
publisher’s enterprise value was only 3.58 times earnings before
interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization on June 25, a
record low, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts
 estimate  on average that the stock will fall to $8.90 within the
next 12 months, down from $9.22 yesterday.  ‘Going Private?’  The New York-based company has also suffered a 31 percent
drop in revenue from a high of $3.37 billion in 2000 as
advertisers pulled back from print publications across the
industry. After posting net losses in three out of the last six
years, the company sold the rest of its stake in Fenway Sports
Group, owner of the  Boston Red Sox , for $93 million this year
and completed the sale of its regional newspaper division for
$143 million.  “When you start to put all the pieces together -- the
liquidation of the assets, paying down the debt, getting the
pension liability under control, not buying back stock, not
paying a dividend -- you have to wonder what’s going on,” Doug Arthur, an analyst with Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York , said
in an interview. “The question is, are they going private?”  Family’s Dividend  The company stopped paying a dividend after 2008 that had
furnished the Ochs-Sulzberger family with more than $20 million
annually. Some family members have expressed concern about the
loss of the quarterly payment, according to two people with
direct knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be named
because the family discussions have been private. Going private
would help the family reassert control of Times Co.’s cash,
without having to answer to public investors.  “The best buyer would be the family itself,” said
Phillips of DeSilva & Phillips. The other options would be for
someone close to the family to partner with them to take it
private, or for the company to buy back its own stock while
remaining public, he said.  Either way, the company has been considering restarting the
stock dividend after the new CEO is in place, two other people
with knowledge of the situation said.  “The company’s positioned to go to a foundation structure
by going private,” said Arthur of Evercore. “I think the
family would be happy going private for cash and reaping the
benefits.”  Trust’s Control  Arthur Sulzberger Jr., chairman of the company and
publisher of its flagship newspaper, has also served as interim
CEO since pushing out Janet Robinson in December. He has
championed an accelerated shift toward the Internet. Times Co.’s
so-called digital paywall, enacted last year, forces online
readers to buy a subscription after reading a limited number of
free articles. The effort has drawn over half a million
subscribers in one year.  The family trust traditionally elects two-thirds of the
Times Co. board through its ownership of 90 percent of the Class
B shares, while the remaining one-third of directors are elected
by holders of the publicly traded Class A shares. The trust is
charged with  preserving editorial independence .  Any change of control would have to be approved by at least
six of the eight members of the family trust, which votes its
stock as one block. The trust’s agreement requires it to vote
against a merger or asset sale that would take control away from
the trustees “unless they determine that the primary objective
of the trust can be achieved better by the implementation of
such transaction,” according to a regulatory filing.  CEO Thompson  The trust and family descendants owned about 15 percent of
the company’s total equity as of Feb. 27, according to the
filing. Class A shareholders are entitled to vote on “certain
material acquisitions,” and the two classes of stock have equal
 voting rights  outside of board elections.  Still, being publicly traded forces Times Co. to disclose
more information and undergo a higher level of scrutiny --
something that may present challenges as management tries to
transform the  161-year-old  publisher into an  Internet company .  Thompson, 55, will take over as CEO in November and report
to Sulzberger. As the head of the  BBC , Thompson primarily
managed costs since almost all of the commercial-free network’s
revenues were handled by the U.K. government through fees paid
by television viewers. As of October, the BBC had undergone cost
cuts of more than 1 billion pounds ($1.6 billion) since 2008.  The company still faces contentious union negotiations with
the New York Newspaper Guild, as Times Co. works to lower its
future pension payments. The Times’ pension is underfunded by
about $500 million, though the company has four to five years to
pay into the fund. A bill passed by Congress also alleviates the
company’s pension burden by giving it more flexibility in the
timing of payments.  Carlos Slim  Times Co. has reduced its debt to $776 million from $1.28
billion in the first quarter of 2009. During that quarter, it
resorted to accepting a $250 million loan from Mexican
billionaire  Carlos Slim  to help refinance its existing debt
burden. The company repaid the loan a year ago, 3 1/2 years
ahead of schedule.  Slim, who still owned a 17 percent stake in Times Co. as of
the end of 2011, didn’t return phone messages seeking comment
through spokesman  Arturo Elias .  Times Co.’s remaining  debt  still may make it difficult to
take the company private,  Edward Atorino , media analyst with
Benchmark Co. in New York, said in an interview. Both Moody’s
Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s  have given the company a
 credit rating  that’s four levels below investment grade.  Rising Swaps  “It’s a big stretch to go private,” Atorino said. “They
still have a lot of debt and the business is going downhill --
who would finance it?”  The cost to protect debt issued by Times Co. from losses
for five years surged today by the most since October. Credit-
default swaps on the company’s debt added 30.9 basis points to
282.4 basis points as of 10:30 a.m. in New York, according to
data provider CMA, which is owned by McGraw-Hill Cos. and
compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately negotiated
market.  That’s the biggest jump since the contracts added 49 basis
points on Oct. 4, the data show.  Credit-default swaps, which typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates, pay the buyer
face value if a borrower fails to meet its obligations, less the
value of the defaulted debt. A basis point equals $1,000
annually on a contract protecting $10 million of debt.  Newspaper Buyouts  The swaps often rise if a company is the potential target
of a leveraged buyout because the debt added to its balance
sheet to fund the transaction erodes its  credit quality  and
could lead to ratings downgrades.  Leveraged buyouts of newspaper owners haven’t always
proceeded as planned. Real-estate billionaire  Sam Zell  led an
$8.3 billion buyout of Tribune Co. in 2007. The company filed
for bankruptcy a year later.  The Ochs-Sulzberger family is unlikely to sell the company
outright, according to two people with direct knowledge of their
thinking.  Still, a strategic buyer may be willing to pay as much as
$1.8 billion for Times Co., according to Evercore’s Arthur,
about a 32 percent premium to yesterday’s closing price. A
multiple of five or six times estimated 2012 Ebitda is
“reasonable, particularly given the premium one would expect
for a renowned, global franchise,” he said. Times Co. may bring
in about $300 million in Ebitda this year after selling
About.com, according to data and analysts’  estimates  compiled by
Bloomberg.  Real Estate  Leo Kulp, an analyst with Citigroup Inc. in New York, said
Times Co. can also squeeze more money from its headquarters in
 Manhattan  to help fund a buyout.  After spending as much as $616 million to help construct
the Renzo Piano-designed tower, Times Co. sold back a portion of
the floors it occupies in 2009 to help finance debt. The
leaseback arrangement allows the company to rent the space with
the option to repurchase its share of the building in 2019.  The option on the 21 floors has almost doubled in value to
$495 million, Kulp estimates. Combined with the seven floors
already owned, Times Co. could sell the space and the option for
almost $600 million, according to Kulp.  “The deal was done in 2009, and of course the real estate
is worth more now,” he said. “It’s really an asset. If they
monetized that right now, they could go private with cash on
hand and then go rent somewhere. There’s some real value on the
balance sheet if you look closely.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sarah Rabil at   srabil@bloomberg.net ;
 Nick Turner  at   nturner7@bloomberg.net . 