-- NFL Reaches Agreement With Cablevision for NFL Network, RedZone
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/nfl-reaches-deal-with-cablevision-to-show-nfl-network-redzone.html
The  National Football League  reached
an agreement with  Cablevision Systems Corp. (CVC)  to carry the league-
owned NFL Network and RedZone channel.  The deal between the most-watched U.S. sports league and
the New York-area cable television operator leaves Time Warner
Cable Inc. as the only major cable provider without the NFL
Network.  Financial terms of the multiyear agreement weren’t
disclosed in a joint statement from the NFL and Bethpage, New
York-based Cablevision. The NFL Network debuts in Cablevision
homes today.  “It’s very important for the NFL,” cable TV consultant
Lee Berke said in a telephone interview. “It shows that the NFL
is methodically pulling together all the major distributors and
has not given up equity or management control to an outside
media company. They own it all.”  Berke said he expects the league and Time Warner to reach
agreement sooner rather than later.  Time Warner spokeswoman  Maureen Huff  said negotiations
continue, and the cable operator wants an agreement to be
reached.  “But we have been close before only to have it fall apart,
so we need to be cautious about predicting success,” she said.  The league and Time Warner aren’t talking, Brian Rolapp,
chief operating officer of NFL Media, said during a conference
call with reporters.  “As a result, we’re obviously not close,” he said.  NFL Network airs 13 primetime regular-season games. RedZone
is a game-day network that shows touchdowns and important plays
inside the 20-yard line. NFL Network shows its first regular-
season game of the year on Sept. 13, when Chicago visits  Green
Bay . NFL Network’s broadcast  schedule  contains one game
involving a New York-area team, the Giants at Carolina on Sept.
20.  The NFL season begins Sept. 5 with the  Dallas Cowboys 
visiting the Super Bowl champion Giants.  Cablevision shares fell 31 cents to $15.06.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Soshnick in  New York  at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  