-- NFL Sues Insurers Over Refusal to Defend of Head Injury Lawsuits
-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/nfl-sues-insurance-companies-to-pay-for-head-injury-lawsuits.html
The  National Football League  accused
more than 30 insurance companies in a lawsuit of refusing to pay
for the defense of lawsuits against the league over head
injuries suffered by former players.  The NFL is a defendant in at least 143 lawsuits by former
players and their spouses, according to a complaint the league
filed yesterday in California state court in  Los Angeles . The
insurers, including Fireman’s Fund Insurance Co. and TIG
Insurance Co., have refused to defend the NFL in the injury
lawsuits, according to the complaint.  The NFL is accused of negligence and failing to inform
players of the link between repeated traumatic head impacts and
long-term brain injuries, including early onset of Alzheimer’s,
dementia and chronic traumatic encephalopathy, according to a
so-called master complaint filed June 7 in federal court in
Philadelphia, where 80 cases are consolidated.  The league accuses the insurers of breach of contract and
says it has incurred $5 million in attorneys’ fees and other
costs to defend against the lawsuits.  “The duty-to-defend policies contractually impose on each
issuing insurer a duty to defend any suit against the NFL and/or
NFL Properties on account of bodily or personal injury covered
or potentially covered by the policy, even if the allegations of
the suit are groundless, false or fraudulent,” the NFL said in
the complaint.  Janet Ruiz, a spokeswoman for Fireman’s Fund, a unit of
Munich-based  Allianz SE (ALV) , and  Paul Rivett , a spokesman for
Toronto-based  Fairfax Financial Holdings Ltd. (FFH) , the owner of TIG
Insurance, didn’t immediately return phone calls to their
offices after regular business hours yesterday for comment on
the lawsuit.  The case is National Football League v. Fireman’s Fund
Insurance, BC490342, California Superior Court, Los Angeles
County.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in Los Angeles at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  