-- Norway Oil Output Growth Strangled by Rising Rig Costs, Red Tape
-- B y   M i k a e l   H o l t e r
-- 2012-08-16T12:59:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/norway-oil-output-growth-strangled-by-rising-rig-costs-red-tape.html
Norway  needs to simplify rules for
offshore oil rigs and reduce labor costs to support efforts to
increase oil and gas production in western  Europe ’s largest
energy exporter, a government-appointed committee found.  Drilling costs in Norway are about 40 percent to 45 percent
higher than in the U.K., meaning companies are drilling less and
exploitable resources are being left in the ground, Eivind Reiten, the committee’s head, said in Oslo today before handing
a report to Oil and Energy Minister Ola Borten Moe.  “You won’t change the big picture unless you do something
both with regulations and working shifts,” said Reiten, a
former chief executive officer of  Norsk Hydro ASA. (NHY)  Drilling
costs, which doubled between 2000 and 2010 and may reach 80
billion kroner ($13.4 billion) this year, mean Norway isn’t
reaching its potential in terms of oil and gas output, he said.  Norway, the world’s third-richest nation per capita, is
trying to boost oil and gas production by expanding into new
areas including the  Barents Sea  off its northern tip. Crude
production has dropped by half since peaking at 3.12 million
barrels a day in 2000 as output falls from aging North Sea
fields, according to the  Norwegian Petroleum Directorate .  “We have to look at what they’re doing in the U.K. and
what the bottlenecks are, and then consider the relevance of
what we have,” Borten Moe said in an interview.  The costs of adapting drilling rigs to operate offshore
Norway “have stayed at a disturbingly high level” and
authorities need to develop a “very simple procedure” to get
rigs cleared for work quicker, Reiten said.  Aging Fleet  Norway also needs more new rigs, with more than half its
current fleet being more than 20 years old, he said. In January,
 the NPD , which oversees the industry, expressed fears that a
lack of rigs may cause projects to be delayed, even as expected
investment in Norwegian oil and gas climbs to a record 194
billion kroner next year, according to  Statistics Norway .  The government must also consider regulations on working
hours for offshore personnel, with a reduction in normal working
hours having led to an increase in more highly-paid overtime,
Reiten said. Under current rules, oil service workers in Norway
can legally work 1,582 hours a year before overtime, compared
with 2,160 in the U.K., according to today’s report.  Norwegian oil and gas professionals enjoy the world’s
highest salaries, with annual pay checks averaging $180,300 --
more than double the global average, according to a report
published by Hays Oil & Gas this year.  Better Paid  That compares with annual pay of $124,000 for U.S. workers
and $87,100 for British oil professionals, according to the
U.K.-listed recruiting group.  Oil production from Norway fell to the lowest level in
almost 21 years in June after a strike by workers, the first
since 2004, disrupted operations. The nation produced 1.502
million barrels a day in June, according to the most recent
figures from the NPD. That’s the lowest since August 1991, when
the Sleipner platform sank and daily production averaged 1.431
million barrels.  Norway’s LO labor union, the biggest representing oil
workers, ended its involvement in today’s report before it was
completed, contending that the study of working hours wasn’t
part of the committee’s mandate, Reiten said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mikael Holter in Oslo at 
 mholter2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonas Bergman at   jbergman@bloomberg.net  