-- Tobacco Packaging, Calvin Klein: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-08-16T11:06:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/tobacco-packaging-calvin-klein-intellectual-property.html
Australia will become the first
country to require cigarettes to be sold in uniform packages
after its top court rejected a challenge from tobacco companies,
setting a precedent for other nations to follow.  The High Court of Australia yesterday dismissed claims by
 Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) ,  British American Tobacco Plc (BATS) ,  Philip Morris
International Inc. (PM)  and  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  that the
government illegally seized their intellectual property by
barring the display of trademarks on packs.  The ruling is a victory for a government faced with A$31.5
billion ($33 billion) in annual health costs from smoking, a
habit it estimates killed 900,000 Australians over six decades.
New Zealand and the U.K. are among countries whose governments
have indicated interest in implementing similar legislation,
which takes effect in Australia Dec. 1.  The Australian law requires cigarettes to be sold with no
company logos and with the same font for all brands on a dark
brown background. Graphic health warnings will cover 90 percent
of the back of the packaging and 70 percent of the front.  Trademark laws vary in other countries, and the Australian
decision isn’t necessarily precedent-setting, Japan Tobacco, the
maker of the Camel brand, said in an e-mail.  Philip Morris  plans to pursue claims against the Australian
government for the loss of its ability to use trademarks, said
Chris Argent, a spokesman for the maker of Marlboro cigarettes.  Once a country implements a tobacco-control measure, it
becomes easier for other countries to do the same, Rob
Cunningham, a senior policy analyst at the Canadian Cancer
Society in Ottawa, said in an e-mail. Canada was the first to
make pictorial health warnings mandatory in 2001 and about 50
nations followed, he said.  The government in New Zealand, where consultations are
being held on plain packaging, has watched the Australian
developments with “huge interest,” said Tariana Turia,
Associate Minister of Health.  Consultations on a U.K. government plan to enforce
standardized packaging for tobacco products ended last week,
with the International Chamber of Commerce among bodies raising
concerns. The plain-pack requirements would probably breach a
number of the U.K.’s international obligations, including World
Trade Organization intellectual property pacts,  Andrew Wilson ,
the ICC’s director of policy, said Aug. 9 after the hearings.  In the U.S., cigarette makers have relied on the First
Amendment of the Constitution, which protects the right to
freedom of expression from government interference.  Philip Morris has said the Australian law violates a treaty
with Hong Kong and may cause billions of dollars in damages. The
New York-based company is pursuing the case in international
arbitration, it said.  The case is British American Tobacco Australia Ltd. v the
Commonwealth of Australia, S389/2011, High Court of Australia
(Canberra).  Secret Ikea Fortune Gets Less Foggy After Rights Sale  The complex ownership structure behind Ikea, the world’s
largest furniture retailer created by billionaire  Ingvar
Kamprad , became more transparent last week after Ikea’s
franchiser published its financial performance publicly for the
first time.  The new details allow for a more complete valuation of the
secretive Ikea empire, increasing the  Bloomberg Billionaires
Index  estimate of Kamprad’s fortune by more than $1.4 billion,
to almost $39 billion.  The financial details were contained in the 2011 annual
report issued by Inter Ikea Group, Ikea’s franchiser. It
disclosed a January transaction to acquire Ikea’s closely held
 intellectual property , including the Ikea trademarks, by Inter
Ikea Systems BV, a wholly owned subsidiary of Inter Ikea, for 9
billion euros ($11 billion).  Swedish-born Kamprad, 81, has said that the Ikea fortune is
no longer his since he separated the company he founded in 1943
into two parts more than 30 years ago. Bloomberg attributes the
full value of Ikea to him on the basis of his ultimate control
over the structure. The split, Kamprad said at the time, was
designed to protect the long-term survival of the business.  In the 1980s, Kamprad placed all of the shares of the Ingka
Group, which owns most of Ikea’s retail stores, into the Leiden,
Holland-based Stichting Ingka Foundation. At year-end 2011,
Ingka owned 290 of Ikea’s 325 retail stores.  At the time, Kamprad also separated out Ikea’s intellectual
property rights, which, until the January transaction, were held
by Interogo Foundation, a Vaduz, Liechtenstein-based holding
company that owns all of Inter Ikea Group. Kamprad controls
Interogo, which financed the January rights transfer with a 3.4
billion euros capital injection and a 5.6 billion euros loan.  The disclosure marks the second time in the past three
years the companies opened their books. In 2011, the Ikea retail
operation reported net income of almost 3 billion euros on
revenue of 25 billion euros, while the franchiser delivered
profit of 87 million euros on revenue of 2.4 billion euros.  All Ikea franchisees pay a fee of 3 percent of gross sales
to Inter Ikea, amounting to 789 million euros in 2011. Inter
Ikea then paid Interogo 550 million euros for the rights to use
the Ikea trademarks in its franchise concept. The cost was about
18 times that 2011 license fee, which reflects the current and
future value of the brand, Gydell said.  The trademark valuation was conducted by two outside
financial groups and vetted by local tax authorities, including
regulators in the Netherlands.  For more trademark news, click here.  Patents  Lululemon Accuses Calvin Klein of Infringing Yoga-Pants Patents  Lululemon Athletica Inc. (LULU) , the Canadian yoga-wear retailer,
sued  Calvin Klein  Inc. claiming the clothing brand infringed
three patents for pants.  Calvin Klein’s “Performance” brand pants violate three
design patents issued in June and September 2011, lawyers for
Lululemon said in the complaint filed Aug. 13 in federal court
in Wilmington, Delaware. Lululemon seeks unspecified damages,
including lost profits and royalties, and a court order barring
the alleged infringement.  “The accused products include substantially the same
waistband design elements and pant style,” Lululemon said in
the complaint.  Founded in 1998, Lululemon describes itself as a pioneer
and innovator of yoga and exercise pants and has built a cult-
like following since moving into the U.S. in 2003. The company
generated a record $1 billion in sales last year and boasts the
fourth-highest sales per square foot among North American
retailers after  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ,  Tiffany & Co. (TIF)  and Coach Inc.  The company lists 47 stores in Canada and 108 stores in the
U.S. as of Jan. 29, according to the complaint.  Lululemon sells products governed by the patents listed in
the suit in the U.S. under the brand name Astro Pant. Calvin
Klein’s alleged infringing products include its performance
knee-length running tights and performance compression
overlapping waistband pants.  Calvin Klein was acquired in 2003 by  PVH Corp. (PVH) , which also
owns the Tommy Hilfiger label.  Malcolm Carfrae, a spokesman for Calvin Klein, didn’t
immediately return a phone call and e-mail seeking comment on
the complaint.  In dispute are patents D645,644, D661,872 and D662,281.  The case is Lululemon Athletica Canada Inc. v. Calvin Klein
Inc., 12-01034, U.S. District Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  Apple, Samsung Judge Asks CEOs to Talk Before Deliberations  The judge presiding over an intellectual property dispute
between Apple Inc. and  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  said the chief
executive officers of the contending companies should talk again
before the jury begins deliberating.  “I’m going to make one more request that CEOs from both
sides speak by phone,” U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh said in
federal court yesterday in San Jose, California. “I see risks
here for both sides,” she said.  Koh earlier this year ordered Apple CEO  Tim Cook  to meet
face to face with his counterpart at Samsung, Choi Gee Sung.
That conference didn’t yield a settlement.  “It’s at least worth one more try,” the judge said. Koh
has given each side 25 hours to present its case.  Apple sued Samsung in April 2011, accusing it of copying
patented designs for mobile devices, and Samsung countersued.
The case is the first to go before a federal jury in a battle
being waged on four continents for dominance in a smartphone
market valued by Bloomberg Industries at $219.1 billion.  Apple is claiming at least $2.5 billion in damages for
patent and trade-dress infringement. Cupertino, California-based
Apple also wants to make permanent a preliminary ban it won on
U.S. sales of a Samsung tablet, and extend the ban to Samsung
smartphones.  “If all you wanted is to raise that you have IP on these
devices, message delivered,” Koh said. “In many ways, mission
accomplished,” she said. “It’s time for peace.”  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  For more patent news, click here.  Copyright  Home Depot Accused of Infringing Decorative Iron Products  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest retailer of home-improvement
items, was sued for copyright infringement by a designer of
decorative iron products.  According to the complaint filed Aug. 14 in federal court
in Atlanta, Home Depot is carrying exact copies of the iron
items designed by Nafra Worldwide LLC of Lawrenceville, Georgia.  Nafra claims it made an initial presentation of its designs
to Atlanta’s Home Depot in October 2004. At that time, the
company said, Home Depot expressed a desire to carry products
made to these designs.  The complaint details a series of meetings with Home Depot
officials through September 2007, after which Nafra set up
merchandise for display at a newly opened Home Depot store in
North Carolina. Nafra said it wasn’t informed until June 2008
that Home Depot decided not to carry the products.  In February 2011, Nafra said it discovered exact copies of
its designs were sold at a Home Depot store in Florida, and
later learned they were produced by a company headed by a former
Home Depot employee.  Nafra said it’s harmed by the alleged infringement, and
asked the court to order any additional unauthorized copying of
its designs.  The company also asked for money damages, attorney fees and
ligation costs.  Home Depot didn’t respond immediately to an e-mail request
for comment.  The case is Nafra Worldwide LLC v. The Home Depot Inc.,
12-028080-TCB, U.S. District Court, Northern District of Georgia
(Atlanta).  For more copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Ex-Bridgestone Scientist Indicted for Trade Secret Theft  A resident of Hudson, Ohio, was indicted for theft of trade
secrets relating to tires at a  Bridgestone Corp. (5108)  research
facility in Akron, Ohio.  Xiaorong Wang, 50, was a research scientist at the center
from May 1995 until he was terminated in April 2010, according
to the indictment filed in federal court in Cleveland, Ohio,
Aug. 14.  He was also charged with making a false statement to
investigators from the  Federal Bureau  of Investigation that he
wasn’t planning to leave the country when, in fact, he was
planning to accept a job at a university in China, according to
court documents.  He was also allegedly lied about having approached anyone
in China regarding setting up a research facility at that
university, and about denying that he was asked to provide
information from Tokyo-based Bridgestone.  Wang is represented by Paul F. Adamson of Burdon & Merlitti
of Akron, who didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request
for comment.  The case is U.S. v. Wang, 5:12-cr-000380-PAG, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of Ohio (Akron).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Dunn at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  