-- Oil Trims Third Weekly Gain on Speculation It’s Not Sustainable
-- B y   J a c o b   A d e l m a n   a n d   A n n   K o h
-- 2012-08-17T07:03:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/oil-set-for-third-weekly-gain-on-signs-of-u-s-economic-growth.html
Oil fell for the first time in four
days, paring a third weekly advance in New York, on speculation
that its rise to a three-month high was not sustainable.  Futures dropped as much as 0.7 percent after yesterday’s
1.4 percent increase to more than $95 a barrel. Oil may slide
next week on concern that slower economic growth in the U.S.
will reduce demand, a Bloomberg survey showed. The world’s
biggest crude consumer is considering a plan to release
emergency stockpiles, Reuters reported.  “Crude’s a little bit overbought,” said  Ken Hasegawa , a
commodity-derivative sales manager at Newedge Group in  Tokyo .
Investor-concern over a potential stockpile release “is one of
the factors that might be negative for oil,” he said.  Oil for September delivery fell as much as 62 cents to
$94.98 a barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $95.11 at 2:45 p.m. Singapore time. The
contract increased $1.27 yesterday to settle at $95.60, the
highest price since May 11.  Brent crude  for October settlement slid as much as 1
percent to $114.15 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The September future expired yesterday at
$116.90, up 0.6 percent. October Brent’s premium to  New York  oil
for the same month was at $18.55 a barrel, down from $21.30.  Oil has climbed 2.4 percent in New York this week after
U.S. retail sales, industrial output and building permits for
July exceeded expectations. Crude also got support from a report
on U.S. stockpiles, which dropped by 3.7 million barrels last
week as consumption reached a nine-month high, according to
Energy Department data released Aug. 15.  Relative Strength Index  Crude is trimming gains after its 14-day relative strength
index reached the highest level since March and prices failed to
close above technical support levels. Oil settled yesterday
below the upper Bollinger Band on the daily chart, at $96.47 a
barrel today. The 14-day relative strength index rose to 66. A
reading of 70 and above is a sign it may have risen too fast.  Losses reflect “traders repositioning themselves in light
of the overnight moves,” said  Michael McCarthy , a chief market
strategist at CMC Markets in Sydney.  Fifteen of 27 analysts, or 56 percent, forecast crude will
decline through Aug. 24 in the Bloomberg survey. Seven
respondents, or 26 percent, predicted that futures will gain and
five said there will be little change in prices. Last week, 48
percent of analysts and traders projected an increase.  Brent Premium  North Sea Brent remained at least $20 a barrel more
expensive than West Texas Intermediate traded in New York in the
five days through yesterday after the gap almost doubled since
June 20, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. has predicted since April that the spread will drop
to $5 a barrel in three months.  The growing difference underscores how falling output from
the  North Sea ’s aging oilfields and U.S.-led sanctions on
Iranian crude sales are stoking Brent while a production boom
adds to a glut of landlocked U.S. supplies, limiting WTI gains.  The White House is considering a plan to potentially
release of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, Reuters
reported, citing a source with knowledge of the situation.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacob Adelman in Tokyo at 
 jadelman1@bloomberg.net ;
Ann Koh in Singapore at 
 akoh15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  