-- Home Construction in U.S. Probably Held Near a Four-Year High
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/home-construction-in-u-s-probably-held-near-a-four-year-high.html
New-home  construction  in the U.S.
probably held in July near a four-year high, adding to signs the
market is stabilizing, economists said before a report today.  Builders broke ground on 756,000 houses at an annual rate,
according to the  median  estimate of 79 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. June’s 760,000 pace was the highest since
October 2008. Other reports may show  manufacturing  in the
Philadelphia area shrank in August and claims for  unemployment
benefits  were little changed last week.  Less costly properties combined with record-low  mortgage
rates  are reviving demand, helping builders like  PulteGroup Inc. (PHM) 
boost profits. A drop in foreclosures, increased hiring and
easier access to credit may be required to foster a more
pronounced and sustained rebound in the industry that triggered
the recession.  “Housing activity continues to improve,” said  Michael Carey , chief economist for  North America  at Credit Agricole CIB
in  New York . “It’s still a slow recovery. The big picture for
housing is one of a turning point this year and a pickup next
year.”  The starts data are due from the Commerce Department at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates in the Bloomberg survey
ranged from 730,000 to 800,000. Building  permits , a proxy for
future construction, may have climbed 1.2 percent to a 769,000
annual rate, according to the survey median.  Also at 8:30 a.m., figures from the Labor Department may
show jobless  claims  rose to 365,000 last week from 361,000 the
prior week, according to the Bloomberg survey median.  Philadelphia Factories  At 10 a.m., the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  may
report manufacturing in the region shrank for a fourth
consecutive month, economists predicted. The bank’s index
improved to minus 5 in August from minus 12.9 in July, according
to the Bloomberg survey median. Figures less than zero indicate
contraction.  Construction company leaders are turning less pessimistic.
The National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo index of
builder  confidence  climbed in August to the highest level in
more than five years, the Washington-based group said yesterday.  Investors have taken notice. The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite  Homebuilder Index (S15HOME)  has climbed 54 percent this
year through yesterday, outpacing a 12 percent gain for the
broader  S&P 500 (SPX)  Index.  More Affordable  Low borrowing costs and cheaper homes are helping spur
demand. The average rate on a  30-year fixed  mortgage dropped to
3.49 percent in the week ended July 26, the lowest in records
dating to 1971, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .
The  median price  of a new house was down 3.2 percent in June
from the same time last year, according to figures from the
Commerce Department.  PulteGroup, the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, posted
a better-than-estimated profit and a 32 percent jump in orders
in the second quarter. The  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based
company is seeing the market improve, while it had entered 2012
assuming new- home sales would be little-changed from 2011,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard J. Dugas said.  “We have been pleasantly surprised as demand throughout
the selling season and extending into these initial weeks of
July has exceeded our expectations,” Dugas said on a July 26
conference call with analysts.  Still, “many of the macro drivers of demand really haven’t
changed all that much,” he said, citing high unemployment, weak
consumer sentiment and concern over  Europe ’s debt crisis and
impending U.S. tax changes.  Raising Forecast  Home Depot Inc. (HD) , the largest U.S. home-improvement
retailer, reported second-quarter profit that topped analysts’
estimates and raised its forecast for profit this year as
customers spent more on remodeling projects.  A sustained rebound in demand remains elusive. Sales of new
homes unexpectedly  dropped  in June from a two-year high,
Commerce Department figures showed. Contracts to buy existing
homes fell 1.4 percent in June, according to the National
Association of Realtors.  Builders also have to contend with distressed houses that
add to inventory and restrain prices. The mortgage delinquency
rate increased in the second quarter for the first time in a
year, a sign more borrowers were struggling to pay their bills.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  