-- Hong Kong Closes Ports, Shuts Schools as Typhoon Kai-Tak Nears
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-16T14:45:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/hong-kong-suspends-ports-warns-travelers-as-typhoon-approaches.html
Hong Kong  suspended port services
and shut schools as the city issued a gale warning in
preparation for the second typhoon in a month.  The  Hong Kong Observatory  issued the No. 8 storm signal,
the third-highest indicator, at 10:15 p.m. local time, according
to a  statement  on its website. Winds with mean speeds of 63
kilometers (39 miles) per hour or more are expected as Typhoon
Kai-tak approaches, the bureau said.  At 10 p.m., Typhoon Kai-tak was centered about 270
kilometers south of Hong Kong and is forecast to move at about
25 kilometers per hour toward the coast of western  Guangdong
province , according to the statement.  “According to the present forecast track, Kai-Tak will be
closest to Hong Kong in the next few hours, skirting within 250
kilometers south-southwest of Hong Kong,” the bureau said in
its bulletin. “Local winds will strengthen further. Tropical
Cyclone Warning Signal No. 8 will stay in force for some time.
The public should be on alert and pay attention to the latest
news on the tropical cyclone.”  The city’s marine department suspended pilotage services,
while the education bureau earlier announced a suspension of
classes at all schools. Hongkong International Terminals Ltd.
and COSCO-HIT Terminals (Hong Kong) Ltd. suspended some
container operations at the city’s ports. Cathay Pacific, the
city’s biggest carrier, said flights may be disrupted from
midnight.  Severe Typhoon Vicente, the most serious storm to hit Hong
Kong since 1999, felled trees throughout the city and damaged a
coal conveyor belt at a  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2)  power station last
month. Plastic pellets owned by China Petroleum and Chemical
Corp. were spilled into the city’s waters from a ship during the
storm, affecting fishermen.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Lee in Hong Kong at 
 slee936@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hwee Ann Tan at 
 hatan@bloomberg.net  