-- Hong Kong May Act to Curb Property Speculation, Leung Says
-- B y   K e l v i n   W o n g
-- 2012-08-16T03:55:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/hong-kong-may-act-to-curb-property-speculation-leung-says.html
Hong Kong  Chief Executive Leung Chun-ying said he will take measures to curb property
speculation, underscoring concerns that a bubble is forming
after  home prices  gained more than 10 percent this year.  The government will seek to prevent “over-expansion” of
bank credit to “ensure the healthy development of the
residential market,” according to a transcript on the
government’s website of Leung’s comments at a public event
yesterday.  Home prices  have recovered from a decline in the second
half of last year even as the government lowered its growth
forecast for 2012 and as the Chinese economy slows down. Leung
took office in July after having pledged to boost housing supply
to bridge a widening wealth gap and rein in property prices that
have gained more than 80 percent since early 2009.  “He’s sending a message to the market that the government
can still act when things get out of control,” said Buggle Lau,
chief analyst at  Midland Holdings Ltd. (1200) , Hong Kong’s biggest
publicly traded realtor. “Since he took over, there has been
some expectation that he won’t be as aggressive or would wait
until next year to introduce measures to curb prices.”  Since taking office, Leung has said he would stick to his
commitment to restart a subsidized housing program halted in
2004.  Leung will delay his first policy address until mid-
January, the government said this month.  Slowing Growth  The  Hang Seng Property Index (HSP) , which tracks the city’s
seven-biggest builders, rose 0.1 percent as of 11:49 a.m. local
time. It has gained 18 percent this year, compared with the 9
percent increase in the benchmark  Hang Seng Index .  The government cut its estimate for full-year growth to 1
percent to 2 percent from a previous 1 percent to 3 percent this
month after saying the economy contracted 0.1 percent in the
second quarter from the first three months.  Home prices have been underpinned by low  interest rates  and
an influx of mainland Chinese buyers, who made up 36.8 percent
of all new sales by value in the first quarter, down from 37.9
percent in the previous three months, according to Midland. The
proportion reached 53.9 percent in the third quarter last year,
the realtor said.  Savills Plc (SVS)  said Hong Kong is the world’s costliest place
to buy an apartment, with prices about 85 percent higher than in
 London , where the property broker is based.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelvin Wong in Hong Kong at 
 kwong40@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  