-- Hong Kong Stocks Fall as Growth Concerns Temper Wen
-- B y   N o r i e   K u b o y a m a   a n d   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a
-- 2012-08-16T08:32:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/hong-kong-stocks-advance-as-wen-sees-room-for-more-easing.html
Hong Kong   stocks  fell as
disappointing earnings underscored growth concerns even after
after Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  said slowing inflation is
giving more room for using monetary policy to support expansion.  China  Mobile Ltd. dropped 5 percent, the most in a year, as
the world’s No. 1 phone company by subscribers posted earnings
that missed estimates.  Tsingtao Brewery Co. (168)  fell as slowing
economic growth damped demand for beer produced by China’s
second-largest brewer, eroding profit. Jiangxi Copper Co.,
China’s biggest producer of the metal, rose 1.6 percent after
Wen’s comments.  The Hang Seng Index decreased 0.5 percent to 19,962.95 at
the 4 p.m. close in Hong Kong, erasing a gain of as much as 0.5
percent, with two shares falling for each that climbed. The
China-enterprises index of mainland companies’ Hong Kong-listed
H shares slipped 0.4 percent to 9,741.78. Shares retreated after
a report showed foreign direct investment in China dropped to
the lowest in two years last month.  “The market has been expecting the Chinese government to
do more to boost economic growth in the second half,” Benjamin Tam, who helps manage about $1.5 billion at IG Investment in
Hong Kong, said in a phone interview. “Growth momentum has been
pretty weak this year. The monetary easing has been offset by
that weakness. The government needs to do more.”  The benchmark  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  fell 7.9 percent from this
year’s high in February through today amid signs China’s
slowdown is deepening and on concern  Europe  will struggle to
contain its debt crisis. Shares on the gauge were  valued  at 10.5
times estimated earnings on average, compared with 13.6 for the
 S&P 500 Index  and 11.6 for Stoxx Europe 600 Index.  Earnings Analysis  Of 60 companies on the Hang Seng Composite Index that have
reported first-half earnings, and for which Bloomberg has
 estimates , 60 percent have exceeded projections. Earnings per
share is expected to fall 3 percent this year.  China Mobile fell 5 percent to HK$86.85, the biggest drag
on the Hang Seng Index. Second-quarter net income was unchanged
at 34.4 billion  yuan  ($5.4 billion) from a year earlier,
according to figures derived from first-half earnings reported
to Hong Kong’s stock exchange today. Profit was projected at
35.6 billion yuan, according to the median of nine analysts’
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  “Most of the earnings result announcements are not too
good, and there are a lot of profit warnings coming from
mainland Chinese stocks,” said  Kenny Tang , Hong Kong-based
general manager of AMTD Financial Planning Ltd. “If the
government further loosens monetary policy and cuts interest
rates and the reserve requirement ratio, that should help the
liquidity and the operating environment.”  Beer Sales  Tsingtao Brewery posted first-half profit that missed
analysts’ estimates as slowing economic growth damped demand for
beer produced by China’s second-largest brewer. The stock
dropped 4.4 percent to HK$43.20, the lowest since April, as net
income rose to 1 billion yuan, compared with the 1.13 billion
yuan average of four analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Citic Pacific Ltd. (267) , a steelmaker with a mine in  Australia ,
fell 1.2 percent to HK$11.44 after reporting earnings during the
trading break. Production at the Australian mine will be
delayed, Chairman Chang Zhenming said.  “We have the conditions and capabilities, and will be sure
to fulfill this year’s economic and social development
targets,” Wen said during a two-day inspection tour to the
eastern province of Zhejiang, the official Xinhua News Agency
reported yesterday. He said downward pressure on the economy
remained “relatively large,” according to state radio, and
state television reported him as saying there’s “growing room
for monetary policy operation.”  Futures, Volatility  Futures on the Hang Seng Index, which closed at its highest
level since May 9 on Aug. 14, dropped 0.8 percent to 19,922. The
 HSI Volatility Index (VHSI)  rose 1.2 percent to 19.07, indicating
traders expect a swing of about 5.5 percent in the benchmark
index during the next 30 days.  “Monetary easing is taking effect in China,” said  Kiyoshi Ishigane , a Tokyo-based strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $70 billion. “Wen’s
remarks are pushing it, and that’s a positive catalyst for the
markets. The Premier seldom makes such direct remarks, but he
might want to emphasize that government wants to support the
economy by monetary policies.”  Jiangxi Copper climbed 1.6 percent to HK$18.36.  Anhui Conch
Cement Co. (914) , the country’s biggest supplier of the building
material, added 0.5 percent to HK$20.25.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Norie Kuboyama in Tokyo at 
 nkuboyama@bloomberg.net ;
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  