-- Lonmin Mine Death Toll Reaches 34 as Police Kill Strikers
-- B y   F r a n z   W i l d ,   S i k o n a t h i   M a n t s h a n t s h a   a n d   M a t t h e w   H i l l
-- 2012-08-17T17:28:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/lonmin-workers-killed-as-police-disperse-strikers.html
South African police killed 34
striking workers at  Lonmin Plc (LMI) ’s Marikana platinum-mining
complex yesterday, the worst death toll in police action since
the end of apartheid in 1994.  At least 78 people were injured in the clashes, Police
Commissioner Riah Phiyega told reporters in Marikana in North
West province today.  Violence erupted yesterday as police used tear gas and live
ammunition to disperse thousands of workers gathered on a
hilltop near the mine. Clashes between rival labor unions led to
a six-day standoff with police in which 10 people had already
died, including two officers. Police say they acted in self-
defense yesterday after coming under attack from the workers
armed with spears, machetes and pistols.  “Police had no option but to open fire,” Phiyega said.
“This is a dark moment for the country. This is no time for
pointing fingers.”  President  Jacob Zuma  will set up a commission of inquiry to
investigate the violence, he said in a televised press
conference from Marikana. Zuma cut short his trip to  Mozambique ,
where he was attending a regional heads-of-state summit.  “There’s something serious behind this happening,” Zuma
said. “That’s why I’ve taken the decision to establish a
commission, because we must get to the truth. This is
unacceptable.”  Illegal Strike  About 3,000 rock-drill operators went on an illegal strike
on Aug. 10 demanding that Lonmin increase their pay to 12,500
rand a month ($1,505). The protests turned violent this week
because of rivalry between the Association of Mineworkers and
Construction Union and the  National Union of Mineworkers ,
according to Lonmin. AMCU has tried to recruit workers at the
mine to challenge the dominance of NUM.  AMCU’s President Joseph Mathunjwa wept today as he told
reporters in Johannesburg that he pleaded with miners to
disperse before police opened fire. NUM General Secretary Frans
Baleni said in an interview he supports Zuma’s inquiry because
“it will tell us who armed the workers” and investigate
allegations of intimidation against workers that didn’t want to
participate in the illegal strike.  “It’s a national tragedy,” Dianne Kohler Barnard, a
spokeswoman on police matters for the  Democratic Alliance , said
in a phone interview. “An independent inquiry must take
place.”  Sharpeville Massacre  South African newspapers carried front-page photos today of
police in riot gear and armed with rifles standing over about
six bodies on the ground.  The police action is the worst in the country since 1985,
when apartheid security forces shot and killed 20 marchers at a
funeral procession in Langa in Eastern Cape, according to the
Johannesburg-based South African Institute of Race Relations.  There was evidence that police randomly shot into the crowd
of protestors yesterday in a scene reminiscent of the massacre
in Sharpeville in 1960, in which 69 people protesting the
policies of racial discrimination were killed, according to the
institute.  Phiyega said police “did what we could with what we had”
and their task “is to protect the community and our members.”  Protest Marches  Protests have turned more violent in  South Africa  since
2006. Eight police officers are currently facing charges related
to the death of an unarmed protester, Andries Tatane, in
Ficksburg in the central Free State province, in April 2011. He
was shot and beaten by police during a community march over the
lack of delivery of government services. Photos of his death
were broadcast on national television and published in
newspapers, stoking condemnation from opposition political
parties.  “After we became a democracy, nobody bothered to train
them to deal with this sort of situation,” Steven Friedman,
director of the Centre for the Study of Democracy at the
University of Johannesburg, said in a phone interview today.
“Some police officers were killed earlier in the week and that
made police even more disinclined to do what police are supposed
to do, which is to stop violence, rather than cause violence.”  Siyonela Cebile, 34, who was among the protestors yesterday
said police used water cannons on the back of  armored vehicles,
known as Casspirs, to disperse the crowd.  ‘Shoot to Kill’  “The people were sitting on the rocks, stood up when the
Casspirs came,” Cebile said in an interview outside a hospital
in Marikana where he visited his injured brother. “The police
pointed firearms at us and opened fire.”  Johannesburg-based eNews Channel interviewed a woman who
wept as she said she was searching for her husband. About 100
women today gathered near the vicinity of the shooting, holding
placards saying “Don’t kill our men.” One of the women shouted
“Down with the killers,” referring to the police.  Zuma is struggling to maintain public trust in the security
services. He appointed Phiyega two months ago to replace Bheki Cele, who was fired in the wake of a corruption scandal. Cele
was criticized during his term in office for introducing
military ranks to the police structure and telling police
officers to “shoot to kill” when faced with armed criminals.  Lonmin Shares  “We are the only democracy in the world where the police
is militarized,” Keith Gottschalk, a professor at the
University of Western Cape in  Cape Town , said in a phone
interview. “This comes with a mindset of being macho and using
maximum force with firearms.”  Workers’ safety must be assured before there’s a return to
normalcy at Marikana mine, located about 100 kilometers (62
miles) west of the capital,  Pretoria , Director Mohamed Seedat
said in a phone interview today. The company said in a statement
it will help fund education costs for children of employees that
died.  Lonmin shares fell as much as 8.6 percent to 592.5 pence
today and closed at 639.5 pence in  London . Platinum for
immediate delivery gained 2.2 percent to $1,472.45 an ounce,
adding to yesterday’s 3.3 percent.  Shanduka Group Ltd., the investment holding company that
owns a stake in Lonmin’s operations, will help pay for funerals,
it said in a statement. Shanduka is controlled by  Cyril Ramaphosa , who founded NUM in 1982.  Apartheid Shadow  “This is a terrible tragedy,” Ramaphosa said in an
interview in Marikana. “It’s shocking. It’s something that one
thought that we’d left behind in the shadow of apartheid.”  Earlier this year fighting between the unionists at  Impala
Platinum Holdings Ltd. (IMP) ’s operation close to Marikana led to the
closure of the world’s biggest platinum mine for six weeks and
four people were killed.  Eighteen years after the end of apartheid, South Africa is
struggling to cut a 25 percent  unemployment rate  and boost
income for about 35 percent of the population that live on less
than $51 a month. Crime is still rampant, with the murder rate
of 31.9 per 100,000 people more than six times that of the U.S.  The rand fell 1.3 percent to 8.3222 against the dollar as
of 5:45 p.m. in Johannesburg, while the yield on the R157
government bond gained 3 basis points, or 0.03 percentage
points, to 5.7 percent  “We have a tremendous problem here in terms of inherited
inequalities and we have a police force that doesn’t know how to
deal with public violence in a human way,” Friedman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net ;
Franz Wild in Johannesburg at 
 fwild@bloomberg.net ;
Sikonathi Mantshantsha in Johannesburg at 
 sikonathim@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  