-- Lonmin Plunges as CEO Hospitalized, Strike Cuts Output
-- B y   M a t t h e w   H i l l   a n d   A n a   M o n t e i r o
-- 2012-08-16T18:54:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/lonmin-plunges-as-ceo-hospitalized-strike-cuts-output.html
Lonmin Plc (LMI)  slumped in London trading
after saying Chief Executive Officer Ian Farmer was hospitalized
with an illness and it may miss output goals following a violent
strike. South African press photographs showed at least 10
people dead today as police opened fire on armed miners.  A six-day work stoppage at Lonmin’s Marikana operations in
South Africa’s North West province has resulted in rioting, and
fatalities rose as police moved in to disperse protesters,
Johannesburg’s eNews channel reported. Lonmin also issued a
statement saying Farmer had a “serious illness” and Chairman
Roger Phillimore will take charge of the executive committee.  Farmer’s hospitalization gives Lonmin “a lot of
problems,” Carole Ferguson, an analyst at Fairfax IS Ltd., said
by telephone from  London . Farmer has a “hands-on role” where
the company has its operations, she said.  Lonmin, the world’s third-biggest platinum miner, has lost
metals output equivalent to 15,000 ounces of platinum at
Marikana since rock-drill operators downed tools on Aug. 10, the
Johannesburg-based company said in a separate statement. The
workers, many of whom have camped out near the site, have been
issued with an ultimatum to return by tomorrow or face
dismissal, it said.  The violence at Marikana, located about 100 km (62 miles)
west of  Pretoria , is a “public order rather than a labor
relations associated matter,” Phillimore said in an e-mailed
statement. South African Minister of Minerals and Energy Susan Shabangu is awaiting a report on the violence at Lonmin and is
“in liaison” with police minister Nathi Mthethwa, her
spokeswoman Zingaphi Jakuja said.  Shares Drop  Lonmin slumped 6.8 percent to close at 648 pence in London
trading, the lowest price since December 2008. The stock was the
worst performer on the  FTSE All-Share Mining Index. (FAMNG)   Before today, 10 people had died in violence related to the
strike. The company has attributed the tension at the mine to
rivalry between the dominant  National Union of Mineworkers  and
the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union, which is
seeking to recruit members.  “At this point it is still very difficult to know how many
people have died” today,  Lesiba Seshoka , a spokesman for the
NUM, said by telephone from Johannesburg. “What we know for a
fact is that since yesterday those guys got given several
warnings from the police to move away.”  Alarmed, Saddened  Johannesburg’s eNews television channel said its reporter
had seen 12 bodies while the  South African Press Association 
said 18 people were dead or injured. Police spokesman Dennis Adriao didn’t answer calls,  text messages  and e-mails. His voice
mail box on his mobile phone was full.  “President  Jacob Zuma  is alarmed and saddened at the
manner in which a dispute at the industrial level at the Lonmin
mine in Rustenburg has degenerated,” the office of the South
African leader said in an e-mailed statement. “We are shocked
and dismayed by this senseless violence.”  Most Lonmin mines are running on essential services, with
production disrupted by the work stoppage. Marikana produced 96
percent of the company’s platinum group metals in concentrate
last year.  “It is unlikely that Lonmin will meet its full-year
guidance of 750,000 saleable ounces of platinum,” the company
said. “Unit costs will be negatively impacted as well, and as a
result we expect the guidance of an 8.5 percent increase” in
full-year costs to be exceeded.  Lonmin Problems  Platinum producers in  South Africa , which account for
three-quarters of world output, are facing plunging profits and
surging costs as demand for the metal weakens, raising the
prospect of violating loan terms. Lonmin, which has two debt
covenants due on Sept. 30, said last month it’s examining
increasing borrowing as metal prices retreat.  “The company is in significant operational and financial
difficulty,” Abhishek Shukla, an analyst at  Societe Generale  in
Bangalore, said in an interview. “If metal prices stay where
they are, they will miss both those covenants.”  Police “massacred” the workers that had been camped on a
rocky outcrop at Lonmin’s Marikana mining complex, the
Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union President
Joseph Mathunjwa said by phone.  “These things should be blamed squarely before management
of Lonmin and the NUM,” he said  The NUM’s Seshoka said AMCU is to blame for the violence.
Abey Kgotle, a spokesman for Lonmin said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Hill in Johannesburg at 
 mhill58@bloomberg.net ;
Ana Monteiro in Johannesburg at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amanda Jordan at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net  