-- Moore Capital Buys J&J as Investors Add Defensive Stocks
-- B y   N i k o l a j   G a m m e l t o f t   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-08-16T16:17:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/moore-capital-buys-j-j-as-investors-add-defensive-stocks-1-.html
Moore Capital  Management LP added
shares of  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ)  and sold  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the second
quarter, reflecting a switch among investment funds to stocks
that are least-tied to economic growth.  J&J, the biggest health-care products company, had the
largest increase in ownership among money managers as holdings
grew by $21 billion through purchases of 271.7 million shares
and price appreciation, according to regulatory filings from
firms with at least $100 million in U.S. equities. Apple had the
seventh-biggest decrease as managers reduced their stake by
$9.32 billion, the data show.  Investors added the most in health-care stocks and
companies that make household goods during the weakest quarter
for U.S. corporate profits since 2009. They cut technology and
energy shares as the industries in the S&P 500 dropped more than
6.5 percent between March and June.  “The trade was not so much of buy health-care and staples,
but to rotate away from companies most dependent on economic
growth,” said  Alan Gayle , a senior strategist at RidgeWorth
Capital Management in Richmond,  Virginia , which oversees about
$47 billion. He spoke in a telephone interview. “Concern about
a global slowdown and a worsening of Europe’s debt crisis caused
a lot of investors to rethink their cyclical exposure.”  Industry Rotation  Investment firms boosted the proportion of their equity
holdings in health-care companies and consumer staples stocks by
0.7 percentage points and 0.5 percentage points, respectively,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The industries in the S&P 500
have price-earnings ratios of 13.7 and 17.4, the highest since
2008, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Managers cut technology weightings by 0.7 percentage point
and energy stocks by 0.5 percentage point, the data show.
Positions in financial shares dropped 0.2 percentage point.  The  S&P 500  lost 3.3 percent in the three months ended June
30, snapping a rally in the previous two quarters, amid concern
about global economic growth. During the second quarter, the
U.S. unemployment rate unexpectedly increased,  China’s economy 
slowed and concern about Greece leaving the euro intensified.  So-called defensive companies, which generate profits that
are less sensitive to changes in the economy, were the only
industries to gain during the quarter among 10 main groups in
the S&P 500. Phone companies, utilities, makers of household
goods and health-care providers added at least 1.1 percent.
Banks and brokers, technology companies and commodity producers
had the biggest losses, falling more than 4.7 percent.  J&J Purchases  Birinyi Associates Inc., Renaissance Technologies LLC and
AQR Capital Management LLC bought J&J shares as the  New
Brunswick , New Jersey-based company rose 2.4 percent. The stock
jumped 2.2 percent on June 13 after executives said its $21.3
billion purchase of Synthes Inc. will boost 2012 earnings.  J&J slipped 0.2 percent to $68.21 as of 11:59 a.m. in  New
York .  Greenlight Capital Inc., the hedge fund run by  David
Einhorn , bought more than 6 million shares in  Cigna Corp. (CI)  and
 Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  while selling its holdings in Dell
Inc. Schafer Cullen Capital Management Inc. added 4.12 million
in Merck & Co. during the quarter.  Cigna, based in Bloomfield,  Connecticut , and Coventry
Health in Bethesda,  Maryland , have unlevered balance sheets and
trade at single-digit price-earnings ratios, making them cheap,
Greenlight said in an investor letter dated July 23, a copy of
which was obtained by Bloomberg News.  Jonathan Gasthalter, a spokesman for Greenlight and
Renaissance, declined to comment on the trading and James
Cullen, president of Schafer Cullen, didn’t respond to e-mail
messages seeking comment. Laszlo Birinyi, the president of
Birinyi Associates, didn’t reply to a voice message and e-mail
sent yesterday.  Technology Weighting  Technology shares, which make up about 20 percent of the
S&P 500, had the largest decrease in money managers’ ownership
in the second quarter. Apple, the world’s most valuable company,
had the third-biggest drop in ownership within the industry
behind  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)   AQR, in Greenwich, Connecticut, sold 25,739 Apple shares.
D.E. Shaw & Co., the New York-based hedge fund that uses
computer models to pick trades, cut its position in the maker of
iPads by 190,205 shares.  Margaret Wyrwas, a spokeswoman for AQR, said the firm
doesn’t comment on individual stocks. An e-mail to D.E. Shaw’s
media relations department was not returned.  Apple Declines  Moore Capital Management bought about 300,000 J&J shares
and sold approximately 52,000 shares of Apple. The iPhone maker
dropped 2.6 percent during the second quarter. Shares of
Cupertino, California-based Apple are up 56 percent in 2012,
compared with a 12 percent rally in the S&P 500.  The hedge fund that had boosted its  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) 
investment earlier this year, joined other firms in selling the
bank’s shares following a multibillion-dollar trading loss. The
$15 billion New York-based firm run by Louis Moore Bacon, sold
its full JPMorgan holding of about 6.47 million shares in the
second quarter. TPG-Axon Management LP, the $4 billion fund run
by  Dinakar Singh , sold its stake of 3.13 million shares.  Shawn Pattison, a spokesman for Moore Capital, and Dan
Gagnier, a spokesman for TPG-Axon, declined to comment.  JPMorgan stakes held by  hedge funds , mutual funds and other
asset managers with at least $100 million in U.S listed equities
shrank by $29.7 billion to $92.5 billion in the second quarter,
the biggest position decrease among all U.S. equities in the
quarter, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Firms sold a
net 71.5 million shares in the period after the New York-based
bank disclosed a trading loss that has grown to at least $5.8
billion.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nikolaj Gammeltoft in New York at 
 ngammeltoft@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lynn Thomasson at 
 lthomasson@bloomberg.net  