-- Oracle Paying $2 Million Settlement Over SEC Claims
-- B y   A a r o n   R i c a d e l a
-- 2012-08-16T20:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/oracle-paying-2-million-settlement-over-fcpa-claims-by-sec-1-.html
Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , the largest maker of
 database software , agreed to pay $2 million to settle claims by
the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission that it violated the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.  The company failed to prevent a subsidiary from secretly
setting aside money off the company’s books that was used to
make unauthorized payments to phony vendors in  India , the SEC
said in a statement.  “Through its subsidiary’s use of secret cash cushions,
Oracle exposed itself to the risk that these hidden funds would
be put to illegal use,”  Marc Fagel , Director of the SEC’s San
Francisco office, said in the statement.  Employees of the subsidiary, Oracle India Private Ltd., set
up transactions with India’s government in a way that let
distributors hold about $2.2 million in proceeds in unauthorized
side funds, the SEC said. The employees then directed the
distributors to make payments from the funds to purported
vendors, several of which were storefronts that didn’t provide
any services to Oracle, according to the statement.  Oracle’s subsidiary documented certain payments with fake
invoices, the SEC said. Oracle agreed to the  settlement  without
admitting or denying the allegations.  The practices were carried out from 2005 to 2007, according
to the SEC, which cited a complaint filed in U.S. District Court
for the Northern District of  California .  Extra Profit  The database provider discovered in 2007 that a few
employees in India “directed distributors to maintain side
funds in violation of Oracle business practices,” said  Deborah Hellinger , a spokeswoman for  Redwood City , California-based
Oracle. The workers were fired after an investigation, she said.  “Oracle has established policies, programs and controls to
deter and detect inappropriate conduct that have been recognized
among the best in our industry,” Hellinger said. “We will
continue to maintain a high standard of compliance and
accountability.”  According to the SEC’s complaint, Oracle India employees
created “extra” profit margins 14 times across eight
contracts, between the price distributors paid for its products
and the price end customers paid. The money was used to create
side funds to pay parties that weren’t Oracle vendors.  “Because the Oracle India employees concealed the
existence of the side fund,” the company didn’t properly
account for the money, the SEC said. “Oracle India’s parked
funds created a risk that they potentially could be used for
illicit means, such as bribery or embezzlement.”  Fake Invoices  One example was a $3.9 million deal with India’s Ministry
of  Information Technology  and Communications in 2006. Oracle
booked $2.1 million in revenue from the contract from its
distributor. Two months later, an Oracle India employee invoiced
the distributor eight times for amounts ranging from about
$110,000 to $396,000 for payments to third party vendors, the
complaint said.  “These invoices were later found to be fake,” the
complaint said.  Other large technology companies have dealt with similar
investigations in recent years.  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM)  last year agreed to
pay $10 million to settle charges that it violated the FCPA by
paying bribes to officials in South Korea and China. In 2010,
the U.S. Justice Department and SEC joined a probe by German
prosecutors as to whether  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ)  employees engaged
in bribery, embezzlement and tax evasion in Russia.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Giles in  San Francisco  at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  