-- Mortgage Rates for U.S. Home Loans Climb for a Third Week
-- B y   N o a h   R a y m a n
-- 2012-08-16T14:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/mortgage-rates-for-u-s-home-loans-climb-for-a-third-week.html
U.S.  mortgage rates  rose for a third
week as 10-year Treasury yields, a benchmark for  consumer debt ,
jumped amid signs the economy is improving.  The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage increased to
3.62 percent in the week ended today from 3.59 percent, McLean,
Virginia-based  Freddie Mac  said in a statement. The average 15-
year rate was 2.88 percent, up from 2.84 percent.  Yields for 10-year U.S. Treasuries touched a three-month
high today, extending gains from a record low in July as
improved economic data damp demand for the safety of government
debt. An increase in borrowing costs may spur homebuyers to
enter the market on the expectation mortgage rates will continue
to rise, said  David Goldberg , an analyst with UBS AG.  “Rising mortgage rates, initially, in a growing economy,
would help to create demand,” Goldberg, based in  New York , said
in a telephone interview yesterday.  The average rate for a 30-year loan reached a record-low
3.49 percent in the week ended July 26.  The housing market is showing signs of stabilization after
the worst slump since the Great Depression. Confidence among
U.S. homebuilders climbed in August to the highest level in more
than five years, the National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo builder confidence  index  showed this week. The S&P/Case-
Shiller  index  of prices in 20 cities fell 0.7 percent in the 12
months through May, the smallest decline since September 2010.  An index of applications for  refinancing  fell 5.1 percent
in the week ended Aug. 10, the Washington-based  Mortgage Bankers
Association  said yesterday. The group’s  purchase  gauge dropped 2
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Rayman in New York at 
 nrayman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  