-- Building Permits in U.S. Increase to Four-Year High: Economy
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a   a n d   M i c h e l l e   J a m r i s k o
-- 2012-08-16T20:36:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/housing-starts-in-u-s-decline-as-permits-reach-four-year-high.html
American builders took out more
residential construction permits in July than at any time in the
past four years, a sign the market will continue to improve.  Applications, a proxy for future work, rose to an 812,000
annual rate, exceeding the highest estimate of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg and the most since August 2008, Commerce
Department figures showed today in  Washington . Housing  starts 
fell 1.1 percent to a 746,000 rate from June’s 754,000, which
was the strongest pace in more than three years.  Less costly properties combined with record-low  mortgage
rates  are reviving demand, helping companies like  PulteGroup
Inc. (PHM)  boost profits. Another report showed Americans this month
were the most pessimistic on the economic outlook since late
last year as fuel costs climb, a hurdle that may prevent the
economy from strengthening in the second half of the year.  “Housing is one of the bright spots in the economy,” said
 Ryan Sweet , a senior economist at Moody’s Analytics Inc. in  West
Chester ,  Pennsylvania . “The recovery’s resilience will be
tested over the next couple months because of  Europe , the
weakening in China, and also given that the consumer and
business moods are rather gloomy right now.”  Stocks rose, sending the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index to its
highest level since April, as the increase in building permits
brightened the outlook for housing. The 500 Index climbed 0.7
percent to 1,415.51 at the 4 p.m. close in  New York . The S&P
Supercomposite Homebuilding Index advanced 4.4 percent.  Survey Results  Permits were projected to rise to a 769,000 pace, according
to the  median estimate  of 52 economists surveyed by Bloomberg.
Estimates ranged from 737,000 to 805,000.  Elsewhere today, U.K. retail sales unexpectedly rose in
July as promotions helped to boost gasoline receipts and food
purchases increased.  In  China , foreign direct investment fell in July to the
lowest level in two years, fueling concern that waning
confidence in the nation’s growth prospects may restrain any
economic rebound.  The share of U.S. households viewing the economy as heading
in the wrong direction rose to 45 percent in August, the highest
since November, from 36 percent the prior month, the Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort survey showed today. The  monthly expectations 
gauge dropped to minus 22 from minus 11 in July. The weekly
Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index fell to minus 44.4 in the
period ended Aug. 12, lowest since January, from minus 41.9.  “The American public appears to have tired of running
harder to stand still, expressing their displeasure with the
current state of economic affairs in the country and their own
personal finances,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist
at Bloomberg LP in New York.  Spending Risks  The report raises the risk that a pickup in  retail sales 
last month will not be sustained after gasoline prices climbed
by 38 cents a gallon in less than two months. A jobless rate
that’s exceeded 8 percent for a post-World War II record 42
months is probably also contributing to concern that the world’s
largest economy is failing to make enough progress.  Another report today signaled the job market is stabilizing
after hiring improved last month. The number of Americans filing
 claims  for jobless benefits was little changed last week,
bringing the average over the past month to the lowest level
since late March, Labor Department data showed.  Filings climbed by 2,000 to 366,000 in the week ended Aug.
11, in line with the  median  forecast of 45 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg, which called for an increase to 365,000. The four-
week moving average, a less volatile measure, dropped to
363,750, the fewest since the week ended March 31.  Starts Breakdown  The housing report showed starts of single-family houses
fell 6.5 percent in July to a 502,000 rate, the first decline
since February. Work on multifamily homes, such as apartment
buildings, rose 12 percent to an annual rate of 244,000, a five-
month high.  Three of four regions showed a decline, led by a 5.3
percent decrease in the West. That area also showed the biggest
jump in permits, climbing 14 percent in July, taking them to the
highest level since June 2008. Construction applications in the
West soared 54 percent over the past 12 months, the biggest
year-to-year jump since December 1986.  Residential construction leaders are turning less
pessimistic. The National Association of Home Builders/Wells
Fargo index of builder  confidence  climbed in August to the
highest level in more than five years, the Washington-based
group said yesterday.  Spurring Demand  Low borrowing costs and cheaper homes are helping spur
demand. The average rate on a  30-year fixed  mortgage dropped to
3.49 percent in the week ended July 26, the lowest in records
dating to 1971, according to McLean, Virginia-based  Freddie Mac .
The  median price  of a new house was down 3.2 percent in June
from the same time last year, according to figures from the
Commerce Department.  PulteGroup, the largest U.S. homebuilder by revenue, posted
a better-than-estimated profit and a 32 percent jump in orders
in the second quarter. The  Bloomfield Hills , Michigan-based
company is seeing the market improve, while it had entered 2012
assuming new home sales would be little-changed from 2011,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Richard J. Dugas said.  “We have been pleasantly surprised as demand throughout
the selling season and extending into these initial weeks of
July has exceeded our expectations,” Dugas said on a July 26
conference call with analysts.  Facing Headwinds  Still, “many of the macro drivers of demand really haven’t
changed all that much,” he said, citing high unemployment, weak
consumer sentiment and concern over Europe’s debt crisis and
impending U.S. tax changes.  Some of those headwinds may be holding back producers.
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia region contracted in August
for a fourth consecutive month as orders and employment
declined, another report today showed.  The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia’s general economic
 index  improved to minus 7.1 in August from minus 12.9 the
previous month. Economists forecast the gauge would climb to
minus 5, according to the  median estimate  in a Bloomberg survey.
A reading of zero is the dividing point between contraction and
expansion in the area covering eastern Pennsylvania, southern
 New Jersey  and  Delaware .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Jamrisko in Washington at 
 mjamrisko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  