-- How Israel Accidentally Saved Egypt’s Brotherhood
-- B y   N o a h   F e l d m a n
-- 2012-08-16T23:00:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/how-israel-accidentally-saved-egypt-s-brotherhood.html
Egypt  has just experienced its
second coup in as many years. The event was surprising in two
ways. First, it will actually strengthen Egyptian democracy.
Second, whether they meant to or not, the Israelis helped make
it possible.  The first coup came in February 2011, when the Egyptian
Army responded to popular protests by removing President  Hosni Mubarak  from office. Although it came in the context of the Arab
Spring, and the generals claimed it was just an interim measure,
this was assuredly a military coup. The Supreme Council of the
Armed Forces, led by Field Marshal Mohamed Hussein Tantawi,
allowed legislative and presidential elections. But it kept
control through the nation’s constitutional court, which oversaw
the disqualification of several important presidential
candidates and eventually ordered the legislature to dissolve
just as voters were electing Mohamed Mursi, the candidate of the
Muslim Brotherhood.  Since Mursi was elected in June -- indeed, since the
legislative elections in January -- there has been serious
tension between the elected representatives of the Brotherhood
and the military. The goal of the Supreme Council, and
especially of Tantawi, has been to delegitimize the politicians
by claiming that they are Islamists intent on turning the
country into another  Iran . This old tactic, borrowed from
Mubarak and other dictators in the region, has resonance in some
foreign capitals, and no doubt with some Egyptian secularists
who fear what an Islamic democracy in their country might look
like.  Weakened Army  Meanwhile, the goal of the Islamic democrats has been to
weaken the army and use the fact that they were elected to
generate public support. The only trouble with this strategy has
been that the army wouldn’t budge, and that the Egyptians who
went to the streets for freedom in the early Arab Spring haven’t
been eager to repeat their heroic efforts.  Hence the subtlety of the latest coup. It came in the
aftermath of an Aug. 5 attack by jihadis on an Egyptian military
encampment in the Sinai desert, not far from the Gaza border.
The militants, who probably included local tribesmen and al-
Qaeda-trained outsiders, and probably got help from Palestinians
inside Gaza, killed 16 Egyptian soldiers. Then they crossed into
 Israel , where they would presumably have attacked Kibbutz Kerem
Shalom just across the border. They made it a mile in -- half a
mile from the kibbutz -- before Israeli strikes wiped them out.  The resulting humiliation for the Egyptian military gave
Mursi the chance he had been waiting for. Over the course of
several days, he forced the retirement of the head of
intelligence and then of Tantawi himself and the other senior-
most brass. They went unwillingly, but they went.  This gives Mursi and the Brotherhood the chance to
negotiate power-sharing with a more pliant group of somewhat
younger officers who have replaced the old ones. The Supreme
Council’s bid to consolidate power has failed.  To make this happen, Mursi used the tools of traditional
coups: taking advantage of the weakness of the powers-that-be at
their most vulnerable moment. Here is where Israel helped. By
quickly and easily killing the jihadis who had just as easily
defeated the Egyptian soldiers in the desert, the Israelis
reminded everyone concerned that the Egyptian military is weak
and ineffectual against the most serious threat it faces, that
of jihadism.  Failed Promise  Because the army’s claim to legitimacy was precisely that
it could protect the state against Islamists, this was no small
point to have made in public. To make matters worse, in Egypt
there is still residual memory of the terrible defeat to Israel
in the Six-Day War of 1967, which brought down the military
regime of Gamal Abdul Nasser. Mursi must have been thanking his
lucky stars for the object lesson.  The Israelis didn’t mean to weaken the generals when they
killed the jihadis -- they were just protecting themselves. But
something more complex was going on, as we saw when Israeli
Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  publicly stated that he considered
the attacks “a wakeup call” for Egyptian authorities.  Presumably, Barak wanted only to send the message that
Sinai security must be improved and that militants in Gaza
should be reined in by Egypt, which has significant and
increasing influence there. Yet the effect was to weaken the
very generals whom the Israelis had previously seemed to
support. The message was that the generals were not taking their
job seriously. This, too, was a major gift for Mursi --something
Barak should have foreseen.  In addition to the unwitting help from Israel, Mursi’s
success depended on his fundamental democratic legitimacy. The
techniques were traditional, but the situation was shocking for
the Arabic-speaking world: A coup against a usurping military
leader was brought about by the democratically elected president
-- not the other way around.  This is a harbinger of good things for the Arab Spring,
which has been badly stalled in large part because of the
Egyptian Supreme Council. The remarkable democratic successes of
tiny  Tunisia  are not enough to make the Arab Spring a
historically significant moment. For that, there must be
transformation on a bigger scale.  Egypt, historically the regional leader, is the best
possible demonstration case for Arab democracy, which so far
means Islamic democracy. If Egypt can succeed, then anything is
possible -- even a democratic outcome from  Syria ’s civil war.  ( Noah Feldman , a law professor at  Harvard University  and
the author of “Scorpions: The Battles and Triumphs of FDR’s
Great Supreme Court Justices,” is a Bloomberg View columnist.
The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Noah Feldman in Cambridge, Massachusetts, at
 noah_feldman@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at   tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 