-- Toyota’s $26,000 Scion FR-S Flutters Like Hummingbird
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/toyota-s-26-000-scion-fr-s-flutters-like-hummingbird.html
Let’s address this quickly. Yes,
this is a review of a Scion, the  Toyota (7203)  sub-brand normally aimed
at teenagers. Yes, you’re a grown-up and are probably about to
click on the next internet distraction. Don’t.  At least, not if you have a taste for buzz-worthy fun on an
extremely modest budget. Other Scion models may be boxy
oddities, but the  FR-S  is a hummingbird on wheels. This small
coupe delivers a flutter of fast, dive-bombing activity and
starts at only $25,600.  Carmakers don’t design all-new models like the FR-S very
often. Crossovers and eco-boxes are in greater demand than small
two-door sports cars with tiny rear seats. If a manufacturer is
looking for a halo-worthy sports car, they are likely to go way
upmarket. Reference Lexus’s $375,000  LFA .  If you want a fast, fun and cheap car of the rear-wheel
variety, you’re looking at the long-in-the-tooth Mazda MX-5
Miata for $24,000. Or you can pony up $52,000 for a  Porsche
Cayman , an awesome small car indeed.  The FR-S provides a viable new alternative. Less than 14
feet long and only 4.2 feet high, it weighs around 2,800 pounds
and has an incredibly low center of gravity.  Working as a joint venture, Toyota and Subaru designed
their rear-wheel-drive architecture and drivetrain together to
save on development costs. The result is the release of two
extremely similar cars, the FR-S and the  Subaru BRZ .  Looking Good  The BRZ is priced about the same as the FR-S. Its grill is
altered and the suspension set up differently, but otherwise the
two cars are alike. Some buyers may opt for the Subaru nameplate
simply because it sounds more grown up.  Take my advice: get over the Scion branding, because the
car itself handles fantastically, and it looks great, too.  It may not be big, but the design is tricked out, with a
complex interplay of character lines, indentations and a
blacked-out rear diffuser. Unlike the Miata, the designers
didn’t go for understatement on the limited expanse of sheet
metal.  The powerplant is conservative, a 2.0-liter four-cylinder
Boxer engine that forgoes turbochargers for a naturally-
aspirated setup. It gets 200 horsepower and 151 pound-feet of
torque.  However, a car this light doesn’t need 500 hp to push it
down the road. You’ve just got to whip it rather strenuously.  Manual Transmission  The FR-S comes with a six-speed manual. That is, clearly,
the right choice. Like matching a blue suit with brown shoes and
belt, they just go together. The six-speed automatic is okay,
but less entertaining.  In fact, eking the most out of the 200-hp engine will
likely run against your car-conserving instincts. The engine
redline is at 7,400 revolutions per minute, and to really get it
to perform, that’s where you need to shift. You won’t be hurting
the engine, even though it does seem a bit destructive. It’s
also the only way to elicit any real engine noise.  With an automatic transmission, this necessitates pushing
the gear lever to the left into “manual” mode. Then you’ll
control the gears with the behind-the-wheel paddles.
Importantly, the FR-S will hold shifts at the redline in this
mode. The full 151 pound-feet of torque arrives at 6,400 rpm.  The suspension is wonderful, courtesy of sophisticated
parts you’d find in very adult  sports cars , including a Torsen
limited-slip differential, MacPherson struts up front, and a
double wishbone rear.  Handles Curves  When I took it on one of my favorite serpentine roads,
which I drive weekly, I found I could carry a lot more speed in
the corners than I’m accustomed to. It’s a matter of weight and
nimbleness.  In a high-horsepower car like a Corvette, I’ll often power
down straightaways, cram hard on the brakes to negotiate the
turn, then blend back on the gas.  Since the FR-S didn’t have much more power to give on those
patches of straight road, I was content with simply throttling
lightly off the gas through corners. The car hangs on with very
little body lean.  The car’s interior is craftily simple. The dashboard has
interesting contours and undulations and the red-stitching along
the doors seems to suggest it’s holding together pieces of
leather, rather than plastic. The plastic also has a faint
scale-like texture, which makes it easier on the eye.  The seats are fabric, with significant bolsters to keep you
fastened down when cornering. However, those bolsters are tight
and extend all the way up to the shoulder. Fine for protecting a
10-year-old, but I felt squished.  The low height and positioning of the FR-S’s door sills
made it difficult to get in and of. I also wouldn’t suggest
stuffing anyone in the rear seats for long.  Still, these are the sacrifices one makes for the price of
the FR-S’s hummingbird nature.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Richard Vines  on restaurants and
Lance Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 