-- Padres’ Sale to O’Malley Family, Golfer Mickelson Backed by MLB
-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 2012-08-17T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/padres-sale-to-o-malley-family-phil-mickelson-approved-by-mlb.html
The $800 million purchase of the San
Diego Padres by a group including the family of former Los
Angeles Dodgers owner  Peter O’Malley  and golfer  Phil Mickelson 
was approved by  Major League Baseball .  John Moores agreed this month to sell the franchise he’s
owned since 1994 to the group headed by Del Mar, California,
beer distributor Ron Fowler. The price includes the team’s 21
percent stake in Fox Sports San Diego, a person with direct
knowledge of the transaction said on Aug. 7.  The sale was finished after receiving unanimous approval
from the other 29 club representatives at an owners’ meeting in
Denver yesterday.  Fowler, the chairman of closely held Liquid Investments
Inc., gains control of a franchise that hasn’t won a  World
Series  championship since joining the National League in 1969.
The Padres appeared in the World Series in 1984 and 1998.  The team last reached the playoffs in 2006 and this year is
in fourth place in the five-team NL West with a 52-68 record.  Fowler will represent the Padres at league meetings, Major
League Baseball said in a statement.  O’Malley’s son Kevin and nephew Tom Seidler also are part
of the new ownership group. The O’Malleys brought baseball to
the West Coast when they moved the Dodgers to Los Angeles from
Brooklyn, New York, in 1958.  Mickelson, a  San Diego  resident who ranks ninth in U.S. PGA
Tour history with 40 wins, gains a minority stake in the team.
He’s said he’ll leave the business operations to others.  “The O’Malley and Seidler family have been involved in
baseball for decades,” Mickelson, 42, said in an Aug. 7
interview before the PGA Championship in Kiawah Island, South
Carolina. “They know what they’re doing. I don’t want to
interrupt or get in the way.”  Price Escalation  Moores told MLB.com last month that he’s handing the team
over to the right people, with a new ownership group that
“brings a long baseball blood line to San Diego.”  The $800 million sale price is about 8 1/2 times the $94
million that Moores paid for the team in 1994.  The price escalated after the Padres signed a $1.2 billion
television contract with Fox, MLB.com said when the two sides
agreed on the sale.  The Padres are the first major league team sold since the
Dodgers went for a record $2.1 billion in a bankruptcy auction
in March to a group including basketball Hall of Fame player
 Magic Johnson  and Guggenheim Partners executive  Mark Walter .  Prior to the Dodgers, the record sale price for a baseball
team was the $845 million that  Joe Ricketts , founder of  TD
Ameritrade Holding Corp. (AMTD) , paid the Tribune Co. three years ago
for the Chicago Cubs and Wrigley Field.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in New York at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  