-- Penn State Officials Seek to Toss Sandusky-Related Charge
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-16T17:29:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/penn-state-officials-seek-to-toss-sandusky-related-charge.html
Gary Schultz  and Timothy Curley, the
two  Pennsylvania  State University officials accused of lying in
the Jerry Sandusky sexual-abuse case, asked a judge to dismiss
the perjury charge against them claiming it lacks specificity
and can’t be corroborated.  State prosecutors have failed to establish sufficient
evidence and haven’t provided details on the false statements
allegedly made by the men, defense lawyers argued during a
hearing today in state court in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  “We need more specificity as to what we are defending
against” Caroline Roberto, an attorney for Curley, told
Commonwealth Judge Todd Hoover.  Schultz, a former vice president in charge of university
police, and Curley, the athletics director at the time, are
charged with lying to a grand jury about a 2001 sex-abuse
allegation against Sandusky, a former football coach, and
failing to report the incident to police. A judge ruled in
December that there was enough evidence for the case to proceed
to trial.  Sandusky, 68, who spent 31 seasons as a defensive assistant
under Paterno, was convicted in June on 45 criminal counts tied
to the abuse of 10 boys over a 15-year period. He is awaiting
sentencing.  Request Premature  Deputy Attorney General Bruce Beemer argued that the
request from Curley and Schultz was premature. The state has
provided details on the alleged false statements including seven
instances in which Schultz claimed particulars on the 2001
allegation were turned over to child protective services and
three instances in which Curley denied knowledge of an earlier
investigation, Beemer said.  Sandusky’s arrest and indictment last year led to firings
of university President  Graham Spanier  and coach  Joe Paterno ,
who headed the football program at  Penn State  for 46 years.
Paterno died in January.  Roberto argued that Paterno’s death makes proving the
alleged false statements virtually impossible.  “Mr. Paterno’s grand jury testimony can’t be used at the
trial; therefore that corroboration is gone,” Roberto argued.  With Paterno gone, there is no one else who could
corroborate what Curley was told about the incident by  Mike McQueary , a former assistant football coach who witnessed the
alleged abuse.  Shower Incident  McQueary testified in December that he told Curley and
Schultz he had seen Sandusky with what appeared to be a 10-year-
old boy in a football locker room shower in March 2002. That
date was later amended to February 2001. McQueary testified that
he described the incident as sexual.  Neither Curley nor Schultz reported the incident to  law
enforcement  or attempted to learn the identity of the boy,
identified in the grand jury report as Victim 2.  The men denied that McQueary told them about witnessing
anal sex, according to the grand jury report. Curley testified
McQueary told him about Sandusky “horsing around.” Schultz
testified that McQueary reported “disturbing” or
“inappropriate” conduct. He later conceded the report was of
inappropriate sexual conduct, according to court documents.  Today’s hearing comes roughly a month after a report on
Penn State’s handling of the Sandusky allegations faulted
Curley, Schultz, Spanier and Paterno with concealing critical
facts in order to avoid bad publicity. The report, which
concluded a seven-month investigation by  Louis Freeh , a former
 Federal Bureau  of Investigation director, said the men failed to
take responsible action after the February 2001 incident
although they all knew of an early allegation and investigation
in 1998.  ‘We’re Confident’  “The Freeh report has no evidentiary value,”  Tom Farrell ,
an attorney for Schultz, said after the hearing. “We’re
confident we’re going to win this case. We’re confident that
we’re right as a matter of law.”  Hoover gave no indication when he would rule on the
request. Arguments on tossing the second charge of failing to
report the 2001 allegation were continued to allow attorneys
more time to debate whether the statute of limitations has
expired for that offense.  The case is Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Schultz, CP-22-
CR-5164-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net  