-- Pina Colada E-Cigs Leading Push Into Smokeless Tobacco
-- B y   K e l l y   B l e s s i n g   a n d   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-08-16T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/pina-colada-e-cigs-leading-push-into-smokeless-tobacco.html
The advertisement features a
scowling granny in an Argyle cardigan. “Dear Smoking Ban,” she
says, brandishing a middle finger.  The ad, which has appeared in several U.S. publications,
touts Blu Ecigs, a maker of electronic cigarettes acquired
earlier this year by  Lorillard Inc. (LO)  for $135 million in cash.
“Take back your freedom to smoke anywhere with blu electronic
cigarettes,” the ad continues. “It’s the most satisfying way
to tell smoking bans to kiss off. OK, maybe the second-most
satisfying way.”  In recent years, U.S. tobacco companies have rolled out a
range of smokeless products, from battery-powered e-cigarettes
to lozenges laced with tobacco. Lorillard,  Altria Group Inc. (MO)  and
Reynolds American Inc. have tried various marketing tactics,
including positioning the products as a way for nicotine addicts
to thumb their noses at the anti-smoking police.  Yet because it’s hard persuading smokers that an e-cig or
lozenge is a substitute for lighting up, these alternative
products account for about 1 percent of the $90 billion U.S.
cigarette market, said David Adelman, a Morgan Stanley analyst.  “Consumers like the tobacco products they currently
consume,” said Adelman, who is based in  New York . “This isn’t
like asking someone to change their laundry detergent or the
type of mop they use.”  The industry is trying to goose sales as U.S. smokers,
increasingly hemmed in by higher cigarette taxes and smoke-free
zones, puff less and less each year. Cigarette volume has been
falling at an annual rate of 3 percent to 4 percent. Meanwhile,
sales of smokeless products, including traditional snuff, grew
about 7.5 percent from 2010 to 2011, according to Euromonitor
International.  Trading Discount  The trend has weighed on tobacco companies’ shares. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Tobacco Index has traded at an average 18
percent  discount  to the broader  S&P 500  during the past decade
on a price-to-earnings basis. The index consists of Lorillard,
Altria,  Reynolds (RAI)  and Philip Morris International Inc.  The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration , which in 2009 won
the power to regulate tobacco products, has yet to impose rules
on these new cigarette alternatives. That means the industry has
an opportunity to test-market its new wares without FDA
oversight, said Mitch Zeller, a former director of the agency’s
Office of Tobacco Programs who works for Pinney Associates, a
health policy consulting firm based in Bethesda,  Maryland .  “This isn’t like test-marketing a new cigarette, where
companies have decades of experience and the most highly
developed set of consumer insights and expertise,” Zeller said.
“These are brand new styles of nicotine delivery these
companies have no experience with. These are real-life sales,
not paying people to participate in a focus group.”  Cigarette Cravings  The “holy grail” for the  tobacco companies  is “a
cigarette-like product that accomplishes the flavor, the ritual
and all the cravings of a cigarette,” said Thilo Wrede, an
analyst for Jefferies & Co. Inc.  Dissolvables, which contain tobacco and are consumed like
lozenges or mints, sometimes look like candy. Reynolds sells 
Camel Orbs, whose appearance has been compared to Tic Tacs. 
Last year, Altria, which is based in Richmond,  Virginia , began 
testing a dissolvable stick, much like a toothpick, under its 
Marlboro and Skoal brands. In May, the company debuted Verve, 
a disc containing nicotine.  Nicotine Punch  Many smokeless products have failed in test markets because
they lack the nicotine punch of cigarettes and are too removed
from the smoking ritual, said Greg Connolly, director for the
Center for Global Tobacco Control at the Harvard School of
 Public Health . Reynolds pulled Camel Dissolvables and re-
released them in a few markets last year with new packaging.
They cost between $3 and $5 compared with an average price of
$5.98 for a pack of cigarettes.  “If dissolvables were going to catch on, they would have
already,” said Michael Lavery, a CLSA Credit Agricole
Securities USA Inc. analyst. “It’s a tough proposition. This
stuff is weird.”  E-cigarettes, electronic tubes that use nicotine and flavor
cartridges, are an attempt to mimic the look and feel of
traditional cigarettes without the smoke and ash. About 2.5
million people use e-cigs in the U.S., according to the Tobacco
Vapor Electronic Cigarette Association, an industry group.  A blu Ecig “starter kit,” which includes a wall charger,
two batteries and five flavor cartridges, sells for $80. Flavor
cartridges, including Pina Colada and Classic Tobacco, run about
$12 for a five-pack. The rechargeable devices feature a glowing
blue tip.  Blu Ecigs  At a conference in May, Lorillard Chief Executive Officer
Murray Kessler justified acquiring Blu Ecigs by saying such
products will generate $1 billion in annual sales in the next
few years. The niche now generates about $300 million, he said.  Eric McCone, a 29-year-old radiology technician from
Columbia, Maryland, has tried electronic cigarettes a few times.  “The electronic cigarette is better than products like
nicotine inhalers,” McCone said. “But it’s no replacement for
a real one.”  More promising are products that mimic chewing tobacco,
which is already widely used in the U.S., according to Tom Russo, who manages more than $4 billion, including shares of
Altria, for Gardner Russo & Gardner. Reynolds and Altria both
sell snus, a variant of Swedish snuff, that comes in pouches and
doesn’t require the user to spit.  Enjoy Freedom  Last year, Reynolds ran newspaper ads promoting Camel Snus
Frost in New York to coincide with the city’s ban on smoking in
outdoor public spaces. “Enjoy freedom without the flame,” the
ads exhorted smokers. “Reclaim the world’s greatest city.”  Camel snus sales, which account for a penny per share of
Reynolds’s earnings, grew by about 20 percent in 2011, according
to Lavery.  “This is a very profitable category,” said  Jack Russo , a
St. Louis-based analyst for Edward Jones & Co. “Gross margins
are higher than they are for cigarettes, and the companies are
always happy to provide something like that.”  Though tobacco companies haven’t found the ideal cigarette
alternative, they need to keep investing in these products to
compensate for declining cigarette sales, Lavery said.  “Right now, there is a big size disparity between the
cigarette and smokeless categories,” he said. Still, over the
long haul, “the picture is changing.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kelly Blessing in New York at 
 kblessing@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at 
 cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  