-- Portugal Default Swaps Signaling Gain From Pain: Euro Credit
-- B y   A b i g a i l   M o s e s   a n d   M a r i a   T a d e o
-- 2012-08-16T08:25:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/portugal-default-swaps-signaling-gain-from-pain-euro-credit.html
Portugal ’s fiscal reforms are giving
investors the greatest confidence in its debt in more than a
year, even as its economy struggles under the weight of
austerity.  Credit-default swaps on Portugal dropped as low as 725
basis points today, from 1,515 in January and 1,237 in May. The
contracts have fallen by the most of any government this year
and by more than every nation except Ireland in the past month.  The implied probability of Portugal defaulting on its debt
has declined to 46 percent from 73 percent as optimism that
spending cuts and tax increases will get finances back on track
outweighs a shrinking economy and rising unemployment. The
government is trying to fulfill the terms of a 78 billion-euro
($122 million) bailout and return to bond markets next year.  “It’s the poster child of success for the European
programs,” said Arif Husain, the London-based director of
European fixed-income at AllianceBernstein Ltd., which oversees
$407 billion and holds Portuguese bonds. “The reforms, unless
something goes crazily, strangely wrong, will always lead to a
short term contraction but put it on a better foot going
forward.”  Investors are both buying bonds and paring bearish bets,
with  credit-default swaps  protecting the smallest amount of
Portuguese debt since at least 2009, when Bloomberg started
collecting data from the Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. A
total of 4,153 swaps contracts covering a net $4.5 billion of
bonds were outstanding as of Aug. 10, down from $9.6 billion in
January 2010.  Record Yields  The Portuguese 10-year yield was at 9.88 percent at 9:07
a.m. in  London , down from a euro-era record of 18.29 percent on
Jan. 31, while the rate on similar-maturity Spanish debt was
6.68 percent. German 10-year bunds yield 1.55 percent and Irish
nine-year bonds pay 6.06 percent.  Portugal’s gross domestic product shrank for a seventh
quarter in the three months through June, falling 1.2 percent
from the previous period, while unemployment rose to a euro-era
record of 15 percent.  The nation, which has 173 billion euros of debt
outstanding, according to data compiled by Bloomberg, is seeking
to narrow its  budget deficit  to 4.5 percent of GDP this year and
3 percent in 2013. It sold stakes in state-owned companies
including utility EDP-Energias de Portugal SA and power-grid
operator REN-Redes Energeticas Nacionais SA to bolster public
finances.  Troika Demands  Reforms are being demanded by the so-called troika of
international creditors -- the European Commission, the  European
Central Bank  and the  International Monetary Fund .  “Portugal has been successful in meeting the targets
required by the troika, the privatization program has been
quickly implemented and the country is responding to
austerity,” said Joaquim Gomes, a fund manager of Dunas Capital
Gestao de Activos in Lisbon. “I’m confident that Portugal will
make a successful return to the bond market in 2013.”  Gomes said he’s now buying Portugal’s 30-year bonds, after
buying five-year notes starting last year. The nation’s five-
year notes yield 8.38 percent, while the rate on the longer-
dated securities is 8.89 percent.  In the first seven months of 2012, Portuguese debt returned
28 percent, the most of 26 markets tracked by indexes compiled
by Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German bunds rose 4.1 percent and Spanish debt fell
5.1 percent.  Irish Risk  As austerity in Portugal wins plaudits from credit
investors, Irish debt risk is also falling as the government
reforms its economy. The nation sold bonds last month for the
first time since it sought a 67.5 billion-euro international
rescue in November 2010.  Swaps on Ireland dropped as low as 449.5 basis points
today, the lowest in almost two years, from a peak of 1,181 last
July.  “A lot of people are extrapolating Portuguese yields
toward where Ireland has gone,” Husain said.  The troika will arrive in Lisbon on Aug. 28 for its fifth
review mission ensuring that the conditions attached to the
bailout program remain on track.  Risks remain and a return to the bond market next year may
be “premature,” according to Gilles Moec, co-chief European
economist at Deutsche Bank AG in London. But the government is
doing “more than enough to justify continued support from the
EU,” he wrote in an Aug. 10 note to investors.  Crisis Contagion  Contagion from the crisis in neighboring  Spain  is one of
the biggest threats to Portugal’s recovery, according to
 Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank in London. The
Spanish government is considering requesting aid,  European
Economic  and Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  signaled in
a Bloomberg Television interview this week.  “As long as Spain is in trouble, returning to the markets
for Portugal will be difficult,” Schulz said. “One big
advantage for Portugal is politically stability, the country has
a stable government and the success of the adjustment program
acts as glue.”  Portugal’s President Anibal Cavaco Silva last week called
on the ECB to buy its debt to help the government return to
markets. The central bank said this month it may intervene in
tandem with  Europe ’s bailout funds if troubled nations commit to
improving their economies and fiscal positions.  “The  Portuguese government  has exceeded expectations,”
said Schulz. “The real test for the Portuguese economy will be
whether or not it can return to the market in 2013 at a
sustainable level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abigail Moses in London at 
 Amoses5@bloomberg.net ;
Maria Tadeo in London at 
 mtadeo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  