-- Port CEO Says Vancouver Avoiding Asia Economic Slowdown
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n
-- 2012-08-16T21:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/port-ceo-says-vancouver-avoiding-asia-economic-slowdown.html
Vancouver ’s  port  is avoiding the
impact of an economic slowdown in  China  and other Asian
countries thanks to increased coal and container traffic, chief
executive officer Robin Silvester said.  Cargo volume in the first half of 2012 rose 6 percent from
a year earlier to 62.3 million tons, and that pace of gain
should continue for the rest of the year, Silvester said in a
telephone interview today. Dry bulk shipments such as coal from
 Canada ’s busiest port rose 10 percent to 16.7 million tons while
container traffic increased 6 percent to a record 1.3 million
twenty-foot equivalent units, a standard measure of volume.  China’s annual export growth slowed to 1 percent in July
from 11.3 percent in June according to an Aug. 10 customs bureau
report, adding to evidence of a slowdown in the world’s second-
largest economy. Leaders of the ruling Communist Party pledged
earlier this month to keep adjusting policies to promote a
stable expansion.  “China is slowing from 9 percent growth to 7 percent
growth, and 7 percent growth is still pretty good,” Silvester
said. “We aren’t seeing it so far,” he said of an Asian
slowdown, and “we would expect to be ending the year in a very
healthy position.”  Vancouver is Canada’s main conduit for sea shipments to
markets such as China,  South Korea  and  India . The Pacific-coast
port handles about C$75 billion ($76 billion) of goods each
year.  The federal government’s decision to end its monopoly on
wheat exports from the western provinces may also boost future
traffic at the port, Silvester said.  “We are seeing a lot of interest from the grain sector to
expand grain capacity,” he said. “It’s a number greater than
one or two that we are talking about,” he said, declining to
name specific companies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  