-- Premier League Will Struggle to Match Last Season’s Title Frenzy
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-16T23:04:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/premier-league-soccer-prepares-for-kick-off-after-best-season.html
English Premier League soccer clubs
will struggle to live up to the climax of last season’s title
race, Chief Executive Officer  Richard Scudamore  said.  The world’s richest soccer league returns tomorrow, six
days after the end of the London  Olympic Games . The previous
campaign ended May 13 with  Sergio Aguero  scoring in the last
seconds of the final game to give  Manchester City  its first
league title since 1968. Aguero’s goal denied  Manchester United 
a record extending 20th championship.  “Whether it’s quite as exciting as last season isn’t
really the measure because that’s an awfully high bar through
which to pass,” Scudamore said in an interview. “All that
matters is that clubs go out and create those contests again and
things will happen.”  City is the 5-4 favorite with William Hill Plc to retain
its title, meaning a successful $4 bet will bring in $5 plus the
original stake. Manchester United is the 9-4 second choice ahead
of European champion Chelsea at 5-1.  The program begins with seven games tomorrow. The next day,
City hosts newly promoted Southampton, with United completing
the opening round of games at Everton on Aug. 20.  If he passes a physical examination, striker  Robin van Persie , the league’s top scorer last season with 37 goals, will
shortly join United from Arsenal for a fee reported to be 23
million pounds ($36.2 million).  No Choice  Arsenal manager  Arsene Wenger  has said he had to trade the
29-year-old Netherlands international -- English soccer’s player
of the year last season -- because  Van Persie  only had a year
remaining on his contract and had refused to sign a new one.  Scudamore said he’s glad Van Persie is staying in the
Premier League, which has lost players including Cristiano Ronaldo,  Xabi Alonso  and Cesc Fabregas to Spain’s top two teams,
Real Madrid and Barcelona, in recent seasons.  “I’m neutral about whether he’s at Arsenal or Manchester
United or wherever he goes as long as he stays in the league
because players of that quality and talent we want to stay
here,” Scudamore said.  During the offseason, United signed a $559 million accord
shirt sponsorship deal with  General Motors Co. (GM)  and raised $233.3
million in an initial share sale in the U.S.  The offering on the  New York  Stock Exchange gives the team
controlled by the Florida-based Glazer family an enterprise
value of $2.9 billion, or about $1 billion more than Real
Madrid, according to data compiled by Bloomberg and Forbes.  Off-Field Business  Other teams have also boosted their off-field income.
Liverpool, the 18-time champion owned by the Fenway Sports
Group, signed an apparel contract with New Balance Athletic Shoe
Inc.’s Warrior Sports brand worth 25 million pounds per season,
while  Under Armour Inc. (UA)  entered into its first soccer
manufacturing agreement with Tottenham Hotspur.  The most-watched soccer league in June announced the sale
of its domestic television rights from 2013-14 for a record 3.02
billion pounds, 70 percent more than the current contract.  “The business of sport is positive, particularly for those
that have got premium properties, particularly for those that
have got premium brands that have can reach and can transcend
international boundaries,” said Scudamore. “That’s why I think
the prospects for the future are good.”  Soccer can also benefit from the success of the Olympics,
Scudamore said.  “It’s good for all of us,” he said. “It’s good for the
reputation of Britain that we pulled this thing off -- just like
we’re good for the reputation of Britain, we’re popular around
the world. We’re part of what people recognize as being good
about a lot of what goes on in this country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in Manchester at  tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  