-- Putting $1 Trillion in Good Hands Gets Results
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-08-16T21:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/putting-1-trillion-in-good-hands-gets-results.html
The citizens of India sure have an
odd way of punishing a man who wreaked havoc with their economy:
they promoted  Pranab Mukherjee  from finance minister to
president.  One man isn’t responsible for all of India’s woes, of
course. The blame for decades of institutionalized neglect,
rampant corruption and dismal standings in nutritional rankings
must be assigned widely and multigenerationally. But Mukherjee,
finance minister from May 2009 until June this year, deserves a
disproportionate share of the responsibility among India’s
current crop of leaders.  The costs of the favoritism, meddling and short-term
thinking that characterized his tenure are still being counted.
The 65 percent plunge in foreign direct investment in the second
quarter is but one example.  Europe ’s crisis and turbulence in
world markets explain some of the drop, but it’s mostly a
referendum on the erratic policies of recent years.  Flip-flops on the tax treatment of multinational companies,
opening  India ’s retail, aviation and pension sectors to greater
competition and anti-corruption strategies tarnished the
economy’s image. Pledges to alleviate poverty in a nation in
which 800 million out of 1.2 billion people live on less than $2
a day fell flat.  Junk Status?  Creeping inflation isn’t helping. The benchmark wholesale-
price index, up 6.9 percent in July, is well above India’s 5.3
percent economic- growth  rate. India’s inflation is the highest
among the major  emerging markets  and a slumping rupee is driving
up borrowing costs. That is tempting credit-rating companies to
downgrade India to junk status.  India deserves better. The good news is it may get it as
Palaniappan Chidambaram returns to the job of finance minister.
In November 2008, he was moved to the Home Affairs Ministry to
strengthen internal security after terrorist attacks in Mumbai
left 166 people dead.  Just as you can’t pin all of India’s failings on one man,
it’s too much to expect another to right them all. At least
Chidambaram and Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  are rejoining
forces on the economy at the right time. Change is contingent on
growth. Without it, political will tends to be in short supply.
Growth averaged 8.9 percent a year when Chidambaram last had the
finance portfolio and he may be just the man to stabilize
things.  Singh, himself a former  finance minister , is the
development economist who unleashed free-market reforms on the
economy. He eliminated layers of red tape and dialed back the
state-enforced constraints on various industries, paving the way
for the rapid growth over the last decade.  As a politician, Singh has sometimes lost the plot.
Granted, the mechanics of his coalition  government , one that has
at times relied on the support of communists, aren’t easy to
control. Yet Singh let those pressures distract him from raising
 living standards  for his impoverished masses. At times, he
delegated to officials ill-equipped to manage the task. Now that
Mukherjee is focused on the largely ceremonial job of president,
Singh’s government can get back to  business .  Chidambaram’s first job is to end the policy volatility
that has sapped market confidence. Just as important is reducing
the endemic corruption that keeps the benefits of growth from
reaching the vast majority of Indians. Chidambaram must rein in
powerful regional leaders such as West Bengal’s Mamata Banerjee.
Some believe her efforts to stymie moves to open the economy to
foreigners deserve as much of the blame for India’s funk as
anything.  Growth Story  The key now is to restore trust in India’s growth story.
Given the nation’s demographics and economic potential,
investors would be foolish to write off  Asia ’s third-biggest
economy. Yet lots of hard work awaits the country’s political
leaders. No challenge is bigger, perhaps, than attracting the
investment needed to fill gaps in infrastructure underscored in
July by spectacular outages that cut power to almost 700 million
people. Moody’s Investors Service says the blackouts had a
“credit negative effect” on India.  Increasing India’s share of global manufacturing jobs
requires a better  power grid  and cheaper electricity. It also
needs new roads, airport terminals, railways, ports and bridges.
India plans to spend about $1 trillion on all this over the next
five years. Doing that requires far more foreign  investment  and
that’s why Chidambaram’s return is so timely.  Policy Volatility  Chidambaram, 66, isn’t untouched by controversy. Opponents
want an investigation of his role in a 2008 sale of phone
licenses that triggered corruption charges and did damage to
Singh’s government. We will leave that up to the courts. For
now, the focus should be on Chidambaram’s race against time to
win fresh investment and strengthen the financial system.  Becoming the first BRIC economy --  Brazil ,  Russia , India,
 China  -- to lose its investment-grade rating wouldn’t just be a
dubious honor, but the undoing of the “India Shining”
narrative that once won over so many investors. Chidambaram must
work quickly to get India back on track and Singh should lend
firm support to his efforts.  Dropping $1 trillion on physical upgrades is a great start.
Putting in charge a policy maker who knows what to do with it is
even better.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  U.S.’s ethanol policy  and
on  Israel’s threat  to strike  Iran ; Stephen L. Carter asks
whether anything is really  “politically impossible” ;  Noah
Feldman  on  Egypt’s democratic coup ;  Amity Shlaes  on  lessons of
the lobster trade ;  Jonathan Weil  on  Standard Chartered ’s  money
laundering settlement ; Adam Kirsch on  presidential weakness  in
the novel “Primary Colors.”  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  