-- Qatar Telecom Offers $2.2 Billion for Wataniya Stake
-- B y   S h a j i   M a t h e w   a n d   F i o n a   M a c D o n a l d
-- 2012-08-16T11:08:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/qatar-telecom-offers-2-2-billion-for-wataniya-stake.html
Qatar Telecom QSC (QTEL)  offered $2.2
billion for the remainder of Kuwait’s National Mobile
Telecommunications Co. as the company steps up acquisitions amid
competition at home.  Qatar Telecom, majority owned by the gas-rich country’s
government, will pay 2.6 dinars ($9.2) each for the 239.4
million shares it doesn’t own after approval from the Kuwait
Capital Markets Authority, it said in a statement today. That’s
an 18 percent premium to 2.2 dinars when the stock last traded
on June 25. Shares of National Mobile, also known as Wataniya
Telecom, have been suspended since the offer was announced.  “It’s reasonably priced,” said Umar Faruqui, a financial
analyst at Kuwait-based Global Investment House KSCC. “Our fair
value is 2.59 dinars. One of their strategies is to increase
their stake in companies which are performing well, so Wataniya
is one of them.”  Qatar Telecom , which owns stakes in phone companies from
Tunisia to  Indonesia , is expanding outside its home market where
it faces competition from Vodafone Qatar, a unit of Vodafone
Group Plc. The Doha-based company in June reached agreements to
double its holding in Asiacell, a mobile operator in  Iraq , for
$1.47 billion. It teamed up with Princesse Holding of Tunisia in
2010 to buy Orascom Telecom Holding SAE’s 50 percent stake in
Telecom Tunisie for $1.2 billion.  Qatar Telecom  shares  rose the most since May 10 to close
3.3 percent higher at 108.9 riyals in Doha today.  Growth Potential  While Wataniya has suffered from currency losses in its
Algerian and Tunisian operations, “the potential for growth is
there, and Kuwait is a high-revenue market for Wataniya,”
Faruqui said. Wataniya competes in Kuwait with Mobile
Telecommunications Co., the market leader known as  Zain (ZAIN) , and
with Kuwait Telecommunications Co., which operates under the
Viva brand.  Qatar Telecom paid about $3.8 billion for 51 percent of
Wataniya in March 2007 and its stake was most recently 52.5
percent, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The  Kuwait
Investment Authority , the country’s sovereign wealth fund, is
the second-biggest  shareholder  in the Kuwaiti phone company with
23.5 percent.  Today’s bid represents a multiple of 1.8 times revenue and
4.7 times earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortization, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Europe Interest  “This is very much in line with our strategy where, if we
like an asset, we want more of it,” Qatar Telecom Chief
Strategy Officer Jeremy Sell said today. The acquisition “is a
good deal” for Qatar Telecom shareholders, giving them a more
simplified structure, and gives Wataniya shareholders a chance
to exit at “a reasonable premium,” Sell said in a Bloomberg
television interview.  Qatar Telecom benefits from having Qatari government
support and is “very interested in what’s happening in
 Europe ,” Sell said. The company will discuss later this year
whether to include Europe as part of its expansion area. “It’s
currently off strategy for us but never say never,” he said.
The Qatari company has focused on Southeast Asia, the  Indian
subcontinent  and the  Middle East  and North Africa region, where
it has the majority of its investments, he said.  Qatar uses wealth accumulated from the world’s third-
largest gas reserves to acquire regional and European assets.
Qatar Holding LLC in 2010 bought Harrods Ltd., while the
country’s sovereign wealth fund has taken an 11.6 percent stake
in Swiss miner Xstrata Plc. Mayhoola for Investments SPC, a
company backed by unidentified Qatari investors, agreed to buy
Italian luxury brand Valentino Fashion Group SpA last month.  Wataniya Telecom  encompasses Qatar Telecom Group’s
businesses in Kuwait, Tunisia,  Algeria ,  Saudi Arabia , the
Maldives and Palestine, according to Qatar Telecom’s first-
quarter financial statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Fiona MacDonald in Kuwait at 
 fmacdonald4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shaji Mathew at 
 shajimathew@bloomberg.net ; 