-- Track & Field Must Seize Olympic Momentum, Nike’s Denson Says
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-08-16T07:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/track-field-must-seize-olympic-momentum-nike-s-denson-says.html
Track and field needs to build on
the feats of athletes including sprinter Usain Bolt and runner
Mo Farah at the London Olympics to boost its profile in between
games,  Nike Inc. (NKE)  executive  Charlie Denson  said.  The sport may attract more media and sponsor interest in
non-Olympic years if it “repackaged” itself in the manner of
the $1 billion Indian Premier League Twenty20 series, which
lifted cricket’s shortest format into the mainstream, said
Denson, brand president at Beaverton, Oregon-based Nike.  “I would love to see track and field come back on a more
consistent regular basis,” Denson said in an interview during
the London games, which closed Aug. 12. “It would certainly be
good for our business and I think there are a lot of people
who’d be very interested. It’s a very compelling product to
watch if done properly.”  Track and field suffers as marketing and broadcasting
budgets are dominated by sports such as soccer. The
International Association of Athletics Federations has sales
about $200 million over three years, according to the governing
body’s latest accounts. The IAAF holds a world championship
every two years and its annual Diamond League series of meets is
held in 14 cities around the world. The four-yearly soccer  World
Cup  generates about $5 billion.  Bolt’s gold medal-winning sprints in the 100 and 200 meters
in London produced more discussion on social media than any
other event at the games.  Topping Twitter  The 25-year-old Jamaican’s victory in the 200 meters Aug. 9
generated more than 80,000 tweets per minute on Twitter,
 according to figures released  by the social-networking service.
His Olympic-record run in the 100 meters four days earlier was
the most mentioned Olympic moment on Facebook and generated
74,000 tweets per minute. Bolt is sponsored by  Puma SE. (PUM)   Britain’s Farah, 29, became only the seventh man in Olympic
history to win the 5,000 and 10,000 meters at the same games.
His run in the longer distance, where the Nike-sponsored athlete
was cheered on by a sellout crowd of 80,000 at the stadium,
attracted an audience of 17.1 million, according to the British
Broadcasting Corp. Only the opening ceremony and Bolt’s 100-
meter run attracted more U.K. viewers.  “The Olympics is athletics’s showcase,” Denson said.
“Certainly the sport itself has suffered more recently in the
non-Olympic periods to some degree.”  IPL Example  Denson, whose company supplied more than 100 federations
and 3,000 athletes with clothing and equipment in  London , cited
the Indian Premier League as an example of a sporting makeover
that track and field could try to emulate.  The nine-team IPL, which finished its fifth edition in May,
takes place over eight weeks and attracts most of the world’s
best cricketers for matches that last about 3 1/2 hours. In
2008, a group including Sony Entertainment Television agreed to
pay $1 billion for the competition’s broadcast rights over 10
years.  “If somebody could come in and do to track and field what
the IPL did to cricket in  India  we would certainly like to be a
large part of it,” said Denson.  Nike may play a bigger role at the 2016  Summer Olympics  in
Rio de Janeiro.  Since the 2000 Sydney games, the company has outfitted
teams and athletes while its biggest rival  Adidas AG (ADS)  has been an
official partner, which brings with it benefits such as using
the  International Olympic Committee ’s logo in marketing
campaigns and selling merchandise inside venues.  Adidas has said it won’t be an official partner in 2016.
Nike has signed a sponsorship agreement with Rio organizers and
the Brazilian national team, the Sports Business Journal
reported. Denson declined to comment directly on the report.  “We’re continually evaluating the cost versus the benefit
like we do with anything,” Denson said of Nike’s involvement in
the Olympics. “We would never say never and we would always
look at it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tariq Panja in London at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  