-- Travelers CEO Says Budget Standoff Causing Economic Gloom
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r   a n d   S t e v e n   N o r t o n
-- 2012-08-16T12:00:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/travelers-ceo-says-budget-standoff-causing-economic-gloom.html
Travelers Cos. Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Jay Fishman said that businesses are curbing
spending and hiring because U.S. lawmakers haven’t addressed
fiscal imbalances the country faces in the next decade.  “The best thing that could happen right now is a
bipartisan solution” to the nation’s mounting debt and widening
deficit, Fishman, 59, said in an interview for  Bloomberg Radio ’s
“A Closer Look With  Arthur Levitt ” to be aired next month.
“The sense of gloom and despair would lift and, in fact,
businesspeople would be more optimistic.”  Executives including  BlackRock Inc. (BLK) ’s Laurence D. Fink and
Pacific Investment Management Co.’s Mohamed El-Erian have warned
that Congress’s inaction on fiscal policy will hurt economic
growth in the world’s largest economy. Businesses see challenges
beyond the end of this year, when the U.S. faces a so-called
fiscal cliff of automatic spending cuts and tax increases, said
Fishman, whose New York-based firm provides insurance coverage
to almost a million companies in the country.  “Most businesspeople are worried about the intermediate
term,” he said. “They understand there will be some fiscal
response to the cumulative debt and deficit situation we’re in.
And that response will be challenging to the economy, whether
it’s a year from now or two years from now, but it’s coming. And
so they hunker down.”  President  Barack Obama ’s administration forecast July 27
that the country’s budget deficit will be $1.21 trillion this
year.  Government spending  exceeded revenue by more than $1
trillion annually since 2009 as the U.S. sought to stimulate the
economy and spur job growth after the longest recession in
almost eight decades.  U.S. Economy  Gross domestic product, the value of all goods and services
produced, slowed to a 1.5 percent annual rate in the second
quarter from 2 percent in the first three months of the year as
limited job growth prompted Americans to curb spending,
according to U.S. Commerce Department data released July 27. The
 jobless rate  has remained above 8 percent since January 2009.  Fink, 59, who heads the world’s largest asset manager, said
last month that U.S. lawmakers need to provide more certainty
about spending and  tax policy  and have been “snoring away” as
European leaders grapple with deficits.  “It’s all about confidence,” he said in a July 3
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Market Makers” with  Erik Schatzker  and  Trish Regan . “No one is investing for tomorrow.”  El-Erian, 53, CEO of the world’s largest bond fund, said
July 2 that inaction on the fiscal cliff could cut economic
growth by about 4 percent.  Spending Plan  Congressional leaders said July 31 that they will vote in
September on a $1.047 trillion, six-month measure that would
keep the government operating after the start of the fiscal year
on Oct. 1. That would give lawmakers more time to figure out how
to avoid spending cuts and tax increases measured by the
 Congressional Budget Office  at $607 billion due to begin Jan. 1.  Fishman echoed billionaire investor  Warren Buffett , who
said last month that municipal bankruptcies in  California  have
lifted some of the stigma of towns and cities filing for court
protection from creditors. Travelers is among the largest
investors in state and local debt, with $39 billion in the
securities at the end of June, according to a regulatory filing.  “Philosophically, you’ve got to feel not quite as good
today as you did a year ago,” Fishman said. “Whatever you own,
you don’t feel as good today as you did a year ago.”  Cities and towns across the U.S. have been strained by
rising costs for labor, including pensions and retiree health
benefits, while the longest recession since the 1930s crimped
tax revenues.  Fishman said Travelers has selected safe debt and owns
“the right bonds in the right places.” The muni portfolio had
a net unrealized gain of $2.8 billion as of June 30.  Levitt, 81, is a former chairman of the Securities and
Exchange Commission. He is a director of Bloomberg LP, parent of
Bloomberg News.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 nbuhayar@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Norton in New York at 
 snorton7@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  