-- Real Madrid Offers Spurs $55 Million Package for Modric: Roundup
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-16T08:24:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/real-madrid-offers-spurs-55-million-package-for-modric-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable Internet links.  $55-Million Package  Luka Modric is set to travel to  Spain  within the next 48
hours to have a physical examination and discuss personal terms
with Real Madrid after the Spanish champion offered a package
that guarantees Tottenham close to 35 million pounds ($55
million), the  Daily Telegraph reported .  Spurs had initially placed a 50 million-pound price on the
Croatia midfielder and rejected a deal that could have risen to
more than 35 million pounds because they were unhappy with the
guaranteed proportion of the payment, the newspaper said.  Hernandez Unhappy  Manchester United striker  Javier Hernandez  could move to
Arsenal after his club agreed to buy Gunners’ captain Robin van Persie, the  Daily Mirror reported .  Hernandez is said to be frustrated at an inevitable lack of
starting opportunities now that van Persie is joining, amid
speculation he has told United manager Alex Ferguson that he
wants to leave, the newspaper said.  On Song  Arsenal will consider selling midfielder  Alex Song  to
Barcelona if the London club receives an offer between 15
million pounds and 20 million pounds, the  Daily Mail reported .  The Gunners will step up their interest in Yann M’Vila, who
plays for French club Rennes, if Song departs, the Mail added.  Merseyside Move  Everton is preparing a move for Liverpool midfielder
 Charlie Adam , who would cost 5 million pounds because he won’t
be picked as a starter by new manager  Brendan Rodgers , the
 Mirror reported .  David Moyes , Everton’s manager, is gauging what the
reaction would be to Adam becoming the first Liverpool player to
be sold directly to Everton since Gary Ablett in 1992, the
newspaper said.  Sahin Swayed  Scotland international Adam could be replaced by Real
Madrid’s Nuri Sahin after Liverpool moved ahead of Arsenal in
the pursuit to take the 23-year-old Turkish midfielder on a
season-long loan, the  Guardian reported .  The deal has swung in Liverpool’s favor because Rodgers
worked under Real Madrid manager  Jose Mourinho  at Chelsea and
Sahin’s teammate Xabi Alonso has been extolling the virtues of
his former club in recent weeks, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  