-- Renewables Rout Ends as Asian Bidders Seek Q-Cells, A123
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   M a r t i n
-- 2012-08-17T09:04:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/renewables-rout-ends-as-asian-bidders-seek-q-cells-a123-energy.html
The slump in renewable energy shares
is ending as bidders from China and  South Korea  signaled
interest in German solar manufacturer  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and  A123
Systems Inc. (AONE) , a U.S. maker of batteries for electric cars.  Wanxiang Group Corp. of Hangzhou, China, confirmed it would
invest as much as $465 million in A123 yesterday, two hours
after Q-Cells said it’s in talks to sell assets to Seoul-based
 Hanwha Chemical Corp. (009830)  The WilderHill New Energy Index of 96
shares has risen 8.8 percent since hitting a nine-year low on
July 26.  “Valuations have come down so significantly in the clean
energy sector that many of these companies are starting to look
like they’re worth the risk,” Mark Florian, managing director
at First Reserve Corp., a private equity investor that’s raised
$23 billion, said in an interview at Bloomberg’s office in  New
York . “With A123 you’ve got the holy grail of  energy storage .
In solar you’ve got the advantages that come with scaling-up.
We’re going to see more consolidation.”  With the  NEX index  trading at less than a quarter of its
2007 peak, investors and analysts are beginning to turn less
pessimistic about the future of the industry, which is coping
with excess capacity, declining margins and government subsidy
cuts. There’s evidence investors are reducing short positions in
 Vestas Wind Systems A/S (VWS)  and  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the
biggest wind and solar companies.  Shares Rally  The NEX index climbed 0.5 percent today, led by a 7.7
percent jump in Vestas and a 5.9 percent gain in its rival
Gamesa Corporacion Tecnologica SA.  Declining short positions, where investors borrow shares to
bet on a decline in the stock’s price, suggests a floor is
emerging to support clean energy shares, said  Mark Bachman , an
analyst at Avian Securities Inc. in  Boston .  About 7.6 percent of Suntech shares were  sold short  on Aug.
16, half the level of November, according to data from Markit.
At Vestas, the short position was 19 percent, down from 23
percent in May. For A123, the short position was 16 percent on
Aug. 14, down from 23 percent in March. About 14.5 percent of
the  NEX index  was sold short at the end of July, around the same
as it’s been for the past year.  ‘Risky Shorting’  “It starts to look risky shorting a stock that’s lost
almost all its value,” Bachman said in an interview. “How much
more of a downside is there when you’ve already become a penny
stock?”  For solar panel makers, increasing competition among
Chinese manufacturers along with concern about government
subsidy cuts caused a 50 percent decline in prices last year and
quarterly losses for most manufacturers. For  wind energy ,
difficulty financing projects in Europe and the looming expiry
of a U.S. tax credit has halted new orders. That’s made them
attractive targets for those expecting a rebound.  Last week, Platinum Equity LLC bought Clipper Windpower
from  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  for an undisclosed sum.  United
Technologies  purchased a 49.5 percent stake in Clipper for $206
million in December 2009 then paid $222 million for the rest a
year later.  Yesterday, Q-Cells disclosed that Hanwha is in talks to buy
the assets of what was five years ago the world’s biggest solar
cell maker. Now insolvent, Q-Cells would help the chemicals
company of South Korea’s 10th-largest industrial group build its
solar business. Hanwha may buy equipment for as much as 40
million euros ($49 million) and guarantee debt owed by Q-Cells
Malaysia of up to 850 million Malaysian ringgit ($272 million).  Boost for Solar  “Korean cash and German branding could help boost Hanwha
Solar’s performance,” said Martin Simonek, a solar analyst at
Bloomberg New Energy Finance in London.  The Asian move for Q-Cells follows LDK Solar Co.’s
acquisition of German solar-cell and module maker  Sunways AG (SWW)  in
April. The deal marked the first time a Chinese manufacturer
bought an entity in  Germany , the world’s largest solar
market. Sunways had reported losses for 2011.  A month earlier, United Arab Emirates-based cell
manufacturer Microsol International bought  Solon SE (SOO1) , a German
solar company that was in insolvency. That deal included most of
its employees, global brand rights, research and development,
production in Berlin and sales operations.  Solar companies have struggled with reduced  government aid 
and competition from Suntech and its Chinese rivals, which have
taken the lead in manufacturing cells. At least 12 solar
companies including Solon SE of Germany and Solyndra LLC of
California have filed for insolvency in the past year.  Bankrupt or Bought  Still, with solar module prices still declining and
supplies outstripping demand, many manufacturers will continue
to bleed cash and may go bankrupt without a suitor, said  Gordon Johnson , an analyst at Axiom Capital Management in New York.  “It’s go bankrupt or get bought out, and the guys who are
still short are betting on bankruptcy,” Johnson said in an
interview. “If a company goes to zero then there’s no tax
liability.”  A123, a maker of  lithium-ion batteries  for electric cars,
may get financing worth as much as $465 million from Wanxiang in
exchange for an 80 percent stake in the company based in
Waltham, Massachusetts. A123 has received a $249 million federal
grant to build a factory in the U.S.  Quarterly Losses  It racked up at least 12 quarters of losses and needs help
after struggling with costs from a recall of batteries. A123
shares reached as high as $25.77 after their initial offering in
September 2009 and since have dropped to 46.57 cents, giving the
company a market value of $74.3 million.  Clipper, along with Denmark’s Vestas and tower maker
 Broadwind Energy Inc. (BWEN)  in the U.S., have struggled to get new
orders because a tax credit that pays developers 2.2 cents per
kilowatt-hour expires at the end of this year. Broadwind has
dropped 72 percent in the past year.  Their fortunes could change with an extension of the wind
energy tax credit after the U.S. election on Nov. 6, according
to Florian at First Reserve.  “The risks are high when you’re dependent on government
subsidies,” Florian said. “The rewards can be too.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Martin in New York at 
 cmartin11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  