-- RG Steel Sells Sparrows Point, Other Assets for $94 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-08-16T01:23:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/rg-steel-sells-sparrows-point-other-assets-for-94-million-1-.html
RG Steel LLC, the fourth-biggest
U.S. maker of flat-rolled steel, won court approval to sell more
of its assets for a combined $93.7 million after selling $22
million worth of assets last week.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin Carey at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , granted the steelmaker approval to sell
assets at its prized Sparrows Point, Maryland, facility and its
Warren and Yorkville,  Ohio , plants.  RG Steel held auctions on July 31 and Aug. 7 reaching deals
worth $122.7 million, court papers show. After today, the
company has completed about $132.2 million in court-approved
sales.  The steelmaker will seek court approval to sell its
Wheeling Corrugating division in Wheeling,  West Virginia , to
 Nucor Corp. (NUE)  for $7 million next week. Last week it sold assets
at its Mingo Junction and Martins Ferry facilities in Ohio for
$22 million. It sold a plant in Steubenville, Ohio, for $15
million in June.  Environmental Liability Transfer Inc., Commercial
Development Co. and Hilco Trading Co. will buy the assets of
Sparrows Point, one of the largest single-site steel-making
facilities in the U.S. with an annual capacity of 3.9 million
tons, for about $72.5 million.  The group added $500,000 to the purchase price to resolve
objections from the Environmental Protection Agency and the
Maryland Department of Environment by funding an offshore
investigation.  ‘Find Operators’  “We want to find operators to help people get back to
work,” said Eric W. Kaup, general counsel for Hilco Trading.
“Going concern options” will be explored in an effort to keep
the mills open, Kaup told Carey.  The Warren assets were sold to CJ Betters Enterprises Inc.
for about $16 million and its Yorkville assets were sold to
Esmark Steel Group LLC for about $5.2 million, according to
court filings. Esmark also bought equity in Ohio Coatings Co.
for $1.5 million.  RG Steel, based in Sparrows Point,  Maryland , listed assets
and debt of more than $1 billion each in Chapter 11 documents
filed May 31. The company suffered “substantial liquidity
problems” beginning in mid-2011, “driven by a rapid decline in
steel prices, while raw material prices remained at peak
levels,” according to a filing by Chief Financial Officer
Richard Caruso.  OAO Severstal  Renco Group Inc. bought the steelmaker from  Russia ’s  OAO
Severstal (CHMF)  last year for about $1.2 billion, less than three
years after Severstal acquired it for $2.2 billion. Renco
created RG Steel to buy the mills, which can produce 8.2 million
tons of steel a year.  The company and its affiliates are 75 percent-owned by
Renco, with the remaining equity owned by Cerberus RG Investor
LLC, according to court papers.  The lead case is In re WP Steel Venture LLC, 12-11661,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  