-- Rupiah Forwards Extend Drop on Current-Account Gap; Bonds Fall
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n
-- 2012-08-16T09:20:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/rupiah-trades-near-three-week-low-before-long-muslim-holiday.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah forwards declined
for a fifth day on concern the nation’s current-account gap will
deepen as President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono called for more
spending on infrastructure.  Government bonds  fell.  The current-account deficit more than doubled to $6.9
billion in the second quarter from $3.2 billion in the previous
three months, the central bank said Aug. 10. Southeast  Asia ’s
largest economy needs to increase investment as exports falter
and use its fiscal policy to drive growth, Yudhoyono said in a
speech today to lawmakers in Jakarta before his annual state
budget address this evening. The rupiah rose after foreign funds
bought $33 million more local shares than they sold in the first
three days of the week, exchange data show.  Concern about the current-account shortfall “is still in
the background,” said  Gundy Cahyadi , an economist at Oversea-
Chinese Banking Corp. in  Singapore .  Twelve-month non-deliverable forwards fell 0.2 percent to
10,094 per dollar as of 3:59 p.m. in Jakarta, a 5.9 percent
discount to the spot rate, data compiled by Bloomberg showed.
Forwards are agreements to buy or sell assets at a set price and
date. Non-deliverable contracts are settled in dollars.  The rupiah rose 0.1 percent to 9,503 per dollar, according
to prices from local banks compiled by Bloomberg. The currency
reached 9,533 yesterday, the weakest level since July 27. It has
declined 4.6 percent this year, the second-worst performance
among Asia’s 11 most-active currencies. One-month implied
volatility, which measures exchange-rate swings used to price
options, rose 150 basis points, or 1.5 percentage points, to 7.5
percent. The rate was unchanged from last week.  Bonds Drop  “We need to support national efforts to accelerate
infrastructure development to ensure sustainable growth,”
Yudhoyono said.  Economic expansion may reach 6.2 percent to 6.3 percent
this year, compared with 6.46 percent in in 2011, central bank
Governor Darmin Nasution said today. The current-account deficit
may improve to 2.2 percent of gross domestic product by year-end
from 3.1 percent in the second quarter, he said.  Local financial markets will be shut tomorrow for the
Independence Day holiday and from Aug. 20 through Aug. 22 for
the Muslim festival of Eid al-Fitr.  The yield on the government’s 6.25 percent bonds due April
2017 climbed four basis points to 5.58 percent, according to
prices from the Inter Dealer Market Association. The yield has
increased 17 basis points this week after  Bank Indonesia  raised
the minimum rate for the deposit facility by 25 basis points to
4 percent effective Aug. 13.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net . 