-- Russia’s Micex Index Gains as Crude Trades at Three-Month High
-- B y   A l e x   N i c h o l s o n   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-08-16T15:24:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/russia-s-micex-index-gains-as-crude-trades-at-three-month-high.html
Russian stocks  rose as crude oil
climbed to the highest in more than three months, boosting
appetite for equities in the world’s biggest energy exporter.  The  Micex Index (INDEXCF)  rose 0.3 percent to 1,451.87 by the close
in Moscow, paring yesterday’s 1 percent drop. OAO Gazprom, the
country’s natural-gas export monopoly, added 1.3 percent, while
OAO Rosneft,  Russia ’s biggest oil producer, increased 0.7
percent. The companies have a combined weight of about 21
percent in the index.  Oil climbed as much as 0.8 percent to $95.06 a barrel in
 New York , the highest since May 11, after U.S. stockpiles
dropped to the lowest in four months. Concern that Middle East
tension would disrupt supplies from a region responsible for
about one third of the world’s crude production has helped lift
crude prices 7.8 percent this month. Oil and natural gas
contribute about 50 percent of Russia’s government budget
revenue.  “The market is supported by the elevated price of crude,”
Julian Rimmer, a trader at CF Global Trading UK ltd., said by e-
mail. At the same time, Russian stock gains have been held back
because “there’s a world of difference between a ‘good’ oil
price rise predicated on rising demand and a ‘bad’ oil price
rise sparked by geopolitical tension or supply-side shocks,” he
said.  The Micex trades at 5.4 times  estimated earnings  and has
climbed 3.5 percent this year. That compares with a multiple of
10 times for the MSCI  Emerging Markets  Index, which has advanced
6.4 percent this year.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Nicholson in Moscow at 
 anicholson6@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  