-- Ryan Learning Romney Ropes as Staff Studies Him Via Video
-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 2012-08-16T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/ryan-learning-romney-ropes-as-staff-studies-him-via-video.html
On the third day of his vice
presidential campaign, U.S. Representative Paul Ryan met his
staff.  Fresh from a workout at a hotel gym in Iowa, Ryan stared
into a video-conference monitor in exercise shorts and a
 University of Wisconsin  baseball cap pulled down low. In  Boston ,
a team of lawyers trooped into an office at campaign
headquarters to greet their new boss -- from 1,300 miles away.  The cross-country meeting was part of the education Ryan
has been getting since being selected as  Mitt Romney ’s running-
mate on Aug. 11 and making his debut on the national stage.  The Wisconsin congressman managed his first days of
campaigning for the Republican presidential ticket with no
apparent mistakes. His crowds have counted in the thousands and
been loud and enthusiastic. He used his life experiences and
those of his home state constituents to make personal
connections with voters he met along the way.  Questions on contentious issues, such as his budget plan,
asked at campaign events were referred to Romney staff.
Strolling through the  Iowa  State Fair on Aug. 13, the House
Budget Committee chairman known for chatting informally with the
reporters in the halls of the U.S. Capitol refused to answer any
questions. “We’ll play stump the running-mate later,” he said.
When reporters tried again on his campaign plane two days later,
Ryan stayed silent, responding only with a smile and a peace
sign.  Inside Bubble  Between campaign rallies -- which included one yesterday at
Miami University in Oxford,  Ohio , his alma mater -- his
schedule was packed with conference calls and briefings
organized to teach the seven-term congressman from Janesville,
Wisconsin, the ins-and-outs of operating inside the Romney
bubble.  Ryan, 42, acted as his own boss for nearly 14 years in
Congress, managing his political strategy with help from a
handful of close aides. He built a reputation as an accessible,
affable figure, eager to describe his fiscal policy vision to
just about anyone who would listen.  Now, he must integrate into an insular campaign that prides
itself on discipline, loyalty, and message-control.  Romney campaign headquarters has provided an entourage of
senior staff to accompany their newest member. Bob White, a co-
founder with Romney of Bain Capital LLC, and Republican National
Committee Chairman Reince Priebus traveled with Ryan early this
week. Romney foreign policy adviser  Dan Senor , who first met
Ryan years ago when both were congressional aides, has been
charged with managing his campaign on the road.  Convention Speech  Hours before his first solo public event as Romney’s
running mate on Aug. 13, aides held a series of meetings in the
Des Moines Marriott for Ryan, including the remote introduction
to the Boston staff. After that, there were briefings on
finance, policy and communications. On flights between events,
Ryan has begun charting out his convention speech with aides.  One of his major roles will be fundraising, giving Romney a
fresh draw to replenish their campaign coffers. In  Las Vegas , he
held a private meet-and-greet session with top donors in the
Venetian hotel. Participants included  Sands Corp. (LVS)  executive
 Sheldon Adelson , the casino mogul who’s spending tens of
millions of dollars to defeat President  Barack Obama .  As Ryan learns about the campaign, his new staff is
studying him.  Staff Education  They’ve discovered that he prefers to receive paper
briefings rather than verbal ones, according to an aide not
authorized to speak about private meetings on the record. His
background as a House member -- who often collaborate with
colleagues on legislation -- comes out in briefings, which staff
describe as free-wheeling brainstorming sessions. And those who
observed Ryan during his morning workouts -- he follows the
grueling P90x fitness regime -- discovered that he really likes
to break a sweat.  His exercise routine mystifies even Romney, a devoted
practitioner of the elliptical machine. “I have never tried
that,” he said in an interview on CBS’s “This Morning”
yesterday. “I might have him show me how to do it someday.”  The differences between the two men go deeper than their
preferred workouts. When Romney’s campaign put the candidate in
jeans -- he favors Levi’s 501s -- it was a strategic decision
designed to loosen up a buttoned-down candidate. Ryan prefers
scuffed cowboy boots, carries his IPhone in a camouflage case,
and props his feet up on the seat in front of him on his
campaign plane.  While Romney can be awkward while interacting with voters,
Ryan looks for ways to bond.  Gym Buddies  He described U.S. Senator  Dean Heller , a Nevada Republican,
as one of his “morning gym buddies” to voters in Las Vegas. He
recounted teaching his young children to cook over a fire on a
camping trip in  Colorado  at an event outside Denver.  At a “homecoming” rally in Wisconsin on Aug. 12, he wiped
tears from his eyes and said ’Hi’ to his mother from the podium,
before proclaiming his love of foods and beers linked to the
state. “My veins run with cheese, bratwurst and a little
Spotted Cow, Leinie’s and some Miller,” he told 10,000 cheering
voters.  Sauntering past the Jumbo Corn Dog stands and Nacho booths
of the Iowa State Fair the following day, Ryan connected with
attendees by recounting his home state’s  agriculture  community.
“We do cow milking contests in  Wisconsin ,” he told a small
crowd. “I usually lose to a 17-year-old woman, who grew up on a
dairy farm, who’s wearing like a sash and tiara.”  Few Bumps  Ryan’s political experience -- he was elected to the House
when he was 28 -- enabled him to manage the few bumps that did
occur with aplomb.  When confronted by hecklers at the Iowa fair, he paused for
only a moment before continuing to plow through his stump
speech. “Iowans and Wisconsinites, we like to respectful of one
another,” he said, after two women rushed the stage. “These
ladies must not be from Iowa or Wisconsin.”  Last year, Romney faced similar protesters during an August
speech on the Des Moines Register soapbox, a traditional stop
for presidential candidates, and wound up shouting in response
that “corporations are people,” providing Democrats with an
enduring attack line.  Ryan’s ease on the stump is helping Republican voters grow
so comfortable with their new candidate that they frequently
call him by his first name at rallies. “That was so cool,”
said Stephen Boggioni, after Ryan caught a baseball with one
hand at the event in Las Vegas. “We got a better candidate than
Sarah Palin this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lisa Lerer in Oxford, Ohio, at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  