-- S&P Says Critics of U.S. Downgrade Misunderstand Credit Ratings
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-16T20:45:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/s-p-says-critics-of-u-s-downgrade-misunderstand-credit-ratings.html
Those who point to falling Treasury
yields since last year’s U.S. downgrade as a sign the rating
should be higher show a “misunderstanding” of credit rankings,
according to  Standard & Poor’s .  Treasuries have returned 5.6 percent since the U.S. was
stripped of its AAA ranking by S&P on Aug. 5, 2011, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data, while yields have sunk
to all-time lows. The rally in the past year may reflect
investors seeking a “haven” from  Europe ’s debt crisis and
demand for liquid securities, S&P said.  “Ratings are really just a rank ordering of our opinion of
relative credit worthiness based on our criteria,” Peter Rigby,
a credit analyst at S&P, said in a telephone interview. “It’s
neither an objective nor goal or intent to determine yields or
prices. Obviously, investors do that using a whole host of
information and different investors have their different
valuation objectives.”  The New York-based unit of McGraw-Hill Cos. cited the
government’s lack of a plan to rein in its growing debt load and
weakening “effectiveness, stability, and predictability of
American policymaking and political institutions” in cutting
the U.S. one step to AA+. The firm has a negative outlook on the
U.S., as do Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings, which
assign America their highest credit grades.  Foreign governments investment in the dollar, a reserve
currency, and the dollar-denominated oil market provides an
“insatiable demand” for the U.S. currency, S&P said.  Yields on Treasuries due in  10 years  touched 1.38 percent
on July 25, the lowest ever. That compares with 2.56 percent the
day the U.S. was downgraded. “Investors, some of which include
the  Federal Reserve , have indeed pushed yields down on  U.S.
Treasuries  in the past 12 months,” S&P said.  ‘Relative Safety’  The Fed bought $2.3 trillion of mortgage and Treasury debt
from 2008 to 2011 in two rounds of so-called quantitative
easing, or QE. The central bank also pushed down U.S. borrowing
costs by holding interest-rates near zero since 2008 and by
announcing its intention to keep them there through 2014 to
stimulate the world’s biggest economy.  “In the wake of the ongoing euro-zone sovereign-debt
crisis, haven-seeking investors have turned to highly rated
debt, including U.S. Treasuries, because of their relative
safety and liquidity,” S&P said. “One of the attractions about
buying and selling a U.S. government bond is the liquidity of
the market.”  Australia , rated AAA by S&P, has about $116 billion in
marketable securities, while top-rated  Canada ,  Sweden  and  Norway 
have marketable debt of $400 billion to $40 billion, S&P said.
The U.S. has $7 trillion of marketable debt, the firm said.  Seeking ‘Liquidity’  Treasuries due in five years yield 0.82 percent, compared
with 1.55 percent for Canada’s similar-maturity debt and 1.09
percent for Sweden. Credit default-swaps tied to  U.S. debt  are
priced at about 42 basis points, according to data provider CMA,
which is owned by McGraw-Hill and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market. Swaps on Sweden are
priced at about 40 basis points, while those of Australia trade
at about 62 basis points.  “Ultra-low yields on U.S. bonds don’t mean we should raise
our rating on the U.S.,” S&P said. “Investors consider many
other factors when pricing a bond, particularly liquidity. No
other  bond market  in the world offers the kind of liquidity that
U.S. Treasuries do.”  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in  New York  at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  