-- San Bernardino Firefighters May Resist City Bankruptcy
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-08-16T19:26:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/san-bernardino-firefighters-may-fight-city-s-bankruptcy.html
Firefighters in San Bernardino,
 California , asked the judge overseeing the city’s bankruptcy for
more time to decide whether they will fight the decision by
elected officials to seek court protection from creditors.  Should the union, one of the city’s most powerful,
challenge the bankruptcy decision, the case could last months
longer. The San Bernardino City Professional Firefighters Local
891 said in court papers filed late last night that it opposes
the city’s request to force creditors to decide quickly whether
to try to block the case by challenging the city’s eligibility
to reorganize under Chapter 9 of the U.S.  Bankruptcy Code .  “As it stands, it is impossible for the firefighters to
verify debtor’s eligibility,” the union said. “If the motion
is approved, the firefighters may be forced to file an objection
to the petition on limited facts and knowledge, leading to
uninformed decision-making and potentially unnecessary
litigation.”  Under Chapter 9, creditors, including unions, lenders and
bondholders, can force a municipality to prove it is eligible to
remain in bankruptcy after a case is filed. In two other recent
municipal bankruptcies, a battle over eligibility added months
to the cases and delayed work on reorganization plans they need
to exit court protection.  Hearing scheduled  The city is scheduled to be in court tomorrow seeking to
impose a deadline on creditors to file any challenges. They
include National Public Finance Guarantee Corp., which also
objected to the city’s proposed Sept. 21 deadline for any
challenges to its bankruptcy filing.  City Attorney Jim Penman didn’t return an e-mail requesting
comment on the firefighters filing.  After the City of Vallejo filed bankruptcy in 2008, three
city unions spent months trying to get the case thrown out, said
Dale Ginter, a lawyer who represented retired city workers in
that case. Challenging eligibility slows a case down, he said.  “It does cause delay,” Ginter said.  Creditors may feel they have no choice, even if they think
they will lose a fight over eligibility, he said. That’s because
once a judge rules that a city’s bankruptcy was properly filed,
the city gains the power to try to cancel certain contracts,
like union agreements and leases that are tied to bond
financings, Ginter said.  The right to challenge whether a city is entitled to file
bankruptcy is a key difference between municipal and corporate
bankruptcies. Under Chapter 11, a corporation automatically
gains the right to try to cancel contracts and seek other help
from a court as soon as it files a bankruptcy petition.  “The city obtains a great deal of leverage” if it wins
the eligibility fight, Ginter said in a telephone interview.
“Creditors may fight eligibility, even if they have a low
percent chance of winning.”  The case is In re San Bernardino, 12-28006,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Central District of California (Riverside).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  