-- Santander Mexico Said to Seek Up to $4 Billion in IPO
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   J .   L e v i n ,   J o s e   E n r i q u e   A r r i o j a   a n d   L e e   S p e a r s
-- 2012-08-16T09:17:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/santander-mexico-said-to-seek-as-much-as-4-billion-in-offering.html
Banco Santander SA (SAN) ’s Mexican unit
plans to raise as much as $4 billion in a record initial public
offering for Latin America’s second-biggest economy, according
to two people familiar with the matter.  Grupo Financiero Santander Mexico SAB, the nation’s fourth-
largest lender by  outstanding loans , will probably sell the
shares after the first week of September, said the people, who
asked not to be identified because the information isn’t public.
The Mexico City-based bank may sell a 25 percent to 30 percent
stake, one of the people said.  Santander will register sale prospectuses with Mexican and
U.S. authorities in “the coming days,” and the shares will
trade in Mexico and  New York , the parent company said in a
filing in  Madrid  today. The size of the sale is still to be
determined and Santander will retain a majority stake, it said.  While Spanish banks’ net borrowings from the  European
Central Bank  rose to a record in July as access to other types
of funding narrowed, Santander’s Mexican subsidiary reported a
second-quarter profit of 5.3 billion pesos ($404 million) in an
economy that is growing at about twice the pace of the U.S. The
IPO will come as Grupo Financiero Banorte SAB, Mexico’s biggest
publicly-traded bank, has rallied 65 percent this year.  Consumer Plays  “People are looking for consumer plays, more liquid
names,” Eric Conrads, who helps manage $1 billion in stocks at
ING Groep NV in New York, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “If they’re flexible enough in terms of valuation,
it could take some of the flows from  Banorte. (GFNORTEO) ”  Citigroup Inc., JPMorgan Chase & Co., Deutsche Bank AG and
Santander are among the banks helping manage the sale, according
to the people.  A Santander Mexico press official, who asked not to be
identified, declined to comment, citing company policy. A
spokeswoman with the Madrid-based parent company, who also asked
not to be named, declined to comment on the size of the sale and
how much the company plans to raise.  Santander shares rose 0.5 percent at 11 a.m. in Madrid to
5.424 euros. The main Ibex 35 share index rose 0.55 percent.  Mexico IPOs  Corp. Inmobiliaria Vesta SAB (VESTA*) , a Mexican industrial park
operator, sold shares on July 19 after  Alpek SAB (ALPEKA) , the country’s
largest publicly-traded petrochemical company, sold stock in
April, in Mexico’s only two IPOs this year.  Banco Santander  Chairman  Emilio Botin  said June 25 the bank
planned to sell shares in an IPO of its Mexican unit on Oct. 4
to take advantage of growth in the Latin American country.  Paulo Carreno, a spokesman with Citigroup’s Mexico unit
Banamex, didn’t return a phone call seeking comment. Jorge Arce,
chief country officer at Deutsche Bank’s Mexico unit, didn’t
respond to a phone call. An official at JPMorgan’s Mexico unit,
who asked not to be identified, declined to comment.  The subsidiary is raising money abroad as a deepening
recession in  Spain  pushes the  unemployment rate  there to almost
25 percent. Spain has asked for a European bailout of as much as
100 billion euros for its banks as the government struggles to
maintain sufficient access to debt markets.  Consumer Loans  In contrast,  Mexico ’s outstanding consumer loans rose 24
percent in real terms in June compared with the same period a
year ago, according to the latest lending report from the
 National Securities and Banking Commission . Total mortgage
credit increased 9 percent in real terms versus the same month
in 2011, the report showed.  Santander Mexico’s outstanding loans totaled 339 billion
pesos at the end of June, an increase of 17 percent from the
same month a year earlier, the company said on July 26.  Banco Santander, Spain’s biggest bank, said the same day
that second-quarter profit dropped 93 percent on costs for
purging bad loans. Net income fell to 100 million euros ($122
million) from 1.39 billion euros a year ago, missing analysts’
estimates.  Banorte climbed 0.2 percent yesterday after paring gains of
as much as 1.7 percent amid speculation the Santander offering
may redirect investor interest.  Brazil  has completed three offerings and three were
scrapped, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Four Chilean
companies have made their trading debuts in 2012, making the
country the most active IPO market in  Latin America .  Colombia 
has had two IPOs.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan J. Levin in Mexico City at 
 jlevin20@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Enrique Arrioja in Mexico City at 
 jarrioja@bloomberg.net ;
Lee Spears in New York at 
 lspears3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  