-- SAP Courts Startups From Health to Retail in Data Push
-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 2012-08-17T07:57:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/sap-courts-startups-from-health-to-retail-in-data-push.html
Jan Karstens is looking for ways to
reduce the amount of food supermarkets have to throw away and
avoid items getting out of stock. As better forecasts require
processing ever more data, he opted to seek an ally in  SAP AG. (SAP)   Karstens, head of development at Karlsruhe, Germany-based
Blue Yonder GmbH & Co., joined more than 30 startup executives
in Berlin this week to pitch ideas to the world’s largest maker
of business-management software -- and earn access to SAP’s
real-time data crunching technology. The software giant hopes
its tiny partners will spawn new concepts that give it an edge
against competitors including  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) , which dominates the
$26.7 billion database market.  “If you can do a business model change with innovation,
that’s very hard to catch up with,” Aiaz Kazi, SAP’s senior
vice president of technology and innovation market strategy,
said in an interview at the event. “We have something here
that’s frankly beyond traditional SAP.”  SAP’s Startup Focus Program was begun at the behest of
company co-founder Hasso Plattner and Chief Technology Officer
Vishal Sikka to aid the rollout of Hana database technology. The
program began a world tour in March, starting in  California ’s
Palo Alto and moving through cities including  Seattle , Toronto,
 Tel Aviv  and Bangalore,  India , with  Tokyo  and  Singapore  to
follow in coming weeks.  Health Treatment  In Berlin, candidates vying to use the technology include
 Pixray GmbH , whose software helps photographers and companies
find illegal copies of their images on the Web, and  Next
Audience GmbH , which helps advertisers better grasp the
interplay between their digital marketing activities, Internet-
advertising platforms and customer management systems.  Alacris Theranostics GmbH  would use Hana to improve its
ability to analyze the genome of cancer patients and predict
which treatments work best on particular individuals. That would
reduce side effects and raise rates at which drugs are approved
by regulators, Chief Executive Officer Bodo Lange said.  The startups’ offerings will be more attractive to clients
if the systems allow larger amounts and more types of data to be
analyzed and if they issue results more quickly, using
technology such as Hana, the startup leaders said.  Faster Analysis  Karstens, Lange and the other executives now await the
verdict from SAP’s jury on which companies will be given free
use of Hana development tools for a year and marketing
assistance. Walldorf, Germany-based SAP, via its venture arm,
may also invest a share of the $155 million it has budgeted for
that purpose.  SAP  shares  were little changed at 51.96 euros as of 9:53
a.m. in Frankfurt trading, giving the company a market value of
63.8 billion euros ($78.8 billion). SAP overtook Siemens AG last
month to become  Germany ’s most valuable public company. Oracle
added 1.5 percent in  New York  yesterday.  Hana is designed to quickly analyze vast caches of sales
and operational information, as well as unstructured data such
as e-mail and social media. It allows operations to be performed
in a computer’s memory, avoiding data transfers to and from
slower hard drives.  Sales of Hana have exceeded 300 million euros so far this
year, Kazi said. That compares with a target of more than
doubling last year’s figure of 160 million euros by the end of
2012. SAP is evaluating how to make Hana-based software more
affordable by delivering it via the Web, he said.  SAP Investments  The ramp-up comes at a cost. In April, SAP said it planned
to spend almost $500 million to convince customers to adopt Hana
and get smaller partners to develop software to showcase the
capabilities of the technology. The company may offer Hana to
the startups at a discounted upfront price or take a share of
the revenue the companies generate.  SAP has invested in smaller companies via its SAP Ventures
arm. Investments have included professional social network
LinkedIn Corp., e-mail marketer ExactTarget Inc., Box Inc., a
provider of cloud storage and collaboration systems, and Lithium
Technologies Inc., a social-media marketing company.  Oracle CEO  Larry Ellison  last year unveiled the so-called
Exalytics Intelligence Machine, which also analyzes information
within dynamic random access memory. SAP has said its in-memory
approach leads rivals by about 18 months, and that Hana is
cheaper and more versatile than other offerings.  “Oracle has reacted the least,” Blue Yonder’s Karstens
said. “They’ve cobbled something together from old technologies
that’s not an alternative for me.”  Hewlett-Packard Co. (HPQ) ’s
Vertica,  International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) ’s solidDB,
 Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s SQL Server, and Germany’s ParStream GmbH are
more useful than Oracle’s big data offering, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  