-- Saudi Envoy’s Alleged Assassin’s Trial Postponed to January
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-08-16T18:13:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/saudi-envoy-s-alleged-assassin-s-trial-postponed-to-january-1-.html
The trial of Manssor Arbabsiar, the
Iranian-American car salesman accused of plotting to assassinate
the Saudi ambassador to the U.S., was postponed to January.  U.S. District Judge John Keenan in  New York  today agreed to
delay Arbabsiar’s trial until Jan. 7. He said the original Oct.
22 trial date will now be a hearing to determine whether to
grant Arbabsiar’s motion to dismiss the indictment or suppress
his confession.  Arbabsiar and Gholam Shakuri, who the U.S. said was a
member of  Iran ’s Qods Force, were charged in a five-count
indictment filed in October with plotting to hire a member of a
Mexican drug cartel to kill Ambassador Adel Al-Jubeir in the
U.S. The person the two men approached to be their assassin was
a U.S. informant, prosecutors said. Arbabsiar has pleaded not
guilty while Shakuri is at large, prosecutors said.  “I want this case to go to trial,” Keenan told lawyers
today. “All that seems to happen here is every time I come to
court, somebody wants to adjourn it.”  Keenan said today prosecutors had asked for a brief
postponement of a pretrial hearing. Sabrina Shroff, Arbabsiar’s
lawyer, told the judge today that she may also need more time
because prosecutors yesterday turned over a 21-page doctor’s
report about her client, and she may hire an expert to assess
it. Assistant U.S. Attorney Glen Kopp in court identified the
doctor as Susan Brandon.  Brandon is chief of research from the High Value Detainee
Interrogation Group, an interagency group of the U.S. Department
of Defense and the  Federal Bureau of Investigation .  Receiving Evidence  After the hearing, Shroff said she was still receiving
evidence about her client’s case from prosecutors in a process
known as discovery.  “One can only hope that discovery is now complete,”
Shroff said. “It’s hard to prepare for trial when discovery
isn’t complete.”  Dr. Michael First, a professor of psychiatry at  Columbia
University  hired by the defense to evaluate Arbabsiar, said in a
report filed July 16 that Arbabsiar suffers from bipolar
disorder and was “likely cycling in and out of manic episodes”
that include symptoms of inflated self-esteem and grandiosity
during the period the government says he committed the crimes.  Bankroll Plot  The U.S. State Department has described the Qods Force as
an arm of the Iranian Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. Other
Qods Force members in Iran were involved and helped to bankroll
the plot, which was to have cost $1.5 million, prosecutors said.  At Arbabsiar’s arraignment in October, Keenan said evidence
the U.S. gathered against Arbabsiar includes recordings of
conversations made by investigators working with the U.S. Drug
Enforcement Administration and the FBI. Some documents include
an alleged admission of guilt and needed to be translated,
Keenan said at the time.  The case is U.S. v. Arbabsiar, 11-cr-00897, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of New York ( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 