-- Scene in D.C.: Julia Child’s 100th Draws Kimsey, Spivey
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   G r e e n
-- 2012-08-16T15:13:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/scene-in-d-c-julia-child-s-100th-draws-kimsey-spivey.html
The spirit of Julia Child hung over
a reunion of old friends last night as they celebrated what
would have been her 100th birthday.  The “Good Time” dinner, named after Child’s adage “Above
all, have a good time,” was hosted by Ris Lacoste at her
eponymous restaurant Ris in the  West End  of  Washington .  Wearing her white kitchen costume, the chef greeted guests
such as  America Online Inc. (AOL)  co-founder Jim Kimsey and  TransDS 
LLC Chairman Eric Spivey.  Both Spivey and Lacoste met Child in the early 1980s.
Lacoste said she honed her beef Wellington and quiche recipes
from Child’s instruction, and added meatloaf to the Ris menu at
her insistence.  Spivey, who shares Child’s birthday, planned a dinner for
her and friends on Aug. 15, 2004. Guests were en route to his
home in  California  for the celebration when she died on Aug. 13.  “We went ahead with it,” he said. “It was what she would
have wanted.”  Spivey is a trustee of the  Julia Child Foundation for
Gastronomy and the Culinary Arts , which promotes her legacy.
Susan Davidson, the foundation’s executive director, said
everyone in the organization knew Child personally.  Last night, Lacoste replicated her menu for Child’s 90th
birthday dinner, held at 1789 in Georgetown.  The main courses were lobster, sea scallops and soft-shell
crab cooked in carrot saffron Pernod broth, and lamb with
Child’s mustard crust. Veggies included butter greens with
Champagne vinaigrette and a sampling of local cheeses.  Fleurs-de-Lis  French and American wines gave a nod to Child’s
transatlantic friendships. Fleurs-de-lis decorated the menus to
honor her love of Gallic culture.  Guests finished with peach cobbler and honey almond ice
cream.  Child’s relatives in attendance included her niece Phila
Cousins, and her great-nephew Alex Prud’homme, who co-wrote her
posthumous memoir “My Life in  France .”  “All I can say is bon appetit,” Prud’homme said.  His parents, Hector Prud’homme, a former Wall Street
banker, and Erica Prud’homme, a painter, came from  New York  for
the occasion.  Also from New York was Child’s godson Henry Breed, a United
Nations political adviser. He said his favorite memory was Child
teaching him to make vinaigrette “when I was about eight or
nine.”  Child’s Kitchen  Tickets were $250, of which $150 benefited the
Smithsonian’s  National Museum of American History ’s new
exhibition “Food: Transforming the American Table, 1950-2000,”
which will feature Julia Child’s kitchen. Her cookbooks,
breakfast table, and mixer are exactly as she left them in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts . Everything in the kitchen is original,
except for the floors.  The exhibition opens in November, but the Julia Child
section, which also has Child’s pot and pans and Legion of Honor
medal, opened yesterday in honor of her centennial. It will
close on Sept. 3.  In the early afternoon yesterday, about 3,000 people
gathered at the museum for a posthumous birthday bash, complete
with the Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra leading a
“Happy Birthday to You” sing along. Tourists and sweaty kids
tore into Child’s mocha chocolate chip cookies. The children,
from the Smithsonian Summer Camp, wore large chef hats.  ( Stephanie Green  is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  Muse highlights include  Jason Harper  on cars and Lance
Esplund on  art .  To contact the writer on this story:
Stephanie Green in Washington at  sgreen57@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter @stephlgreen.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 