-- Sina Says It Expects More Weibo Ad Revenue as Customers Double
-- B y   M a r k   L e e
-- 2012-08-16T03:40:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/sina-says-it-expects-more-weibo-ad-revenue-as-customers-double.html
Sina Corp. (SINA)  said it expects sales
from Weibo, the Twitter-like site it operates in  China , to rise
in the second half as the number of advertisers jumps.  Weibo had about 80 advertising customers in the second-
quarter and the number will “probably double” in the second
six months of this year, Chief Executive Officer Charles Chao
said in a conference call today. Weibo contributed about 10
percent of revenue in the second quarter, he said.  The operator of China’s most-popular microblogging site
also said it plans to introduce a new version of the service by
the end of the current quarter. Sina started selling advertising
in April on Weibo, while the country’s economic slowdown
weakened growth in ad sales on its online portal.  Advertising revenue in the third-quarter may rise as much
as 21 percent to $122 million, said in a statement yesterday.
The growth represents an acceleration and was helped by
Olympics-related promotions by clients, Chao said.  Sina fell 1.3 percent to $50.90 in New York trading
yesterday before the results announcement. The stock has
declined 2.1 percent this year, compared with a 54 percent gain
for the Hong Kong-traded shares of  Tencent Holdings Ltd., (700)  which
offers a rival microblogging service in China.  Net income tripled to $33.2 million in the second quarter
from $10 million a year earlier, Shanghai-based Sina said. The
company was expected to post a loss of $3.9 million, the average
of 11 analysts’ estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Profit included
a $45.3 million gain from Sina’s investment in China Real Estate
Information Corp., it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Mark Lee  in  Hong Kong  at 
 wlee37@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  