-- Skype Founder’s New Startup, FreedomPop, Picks CEO
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-08-16T18:55:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/skype-founder-s-new-startup-freedompop-picks-ceo.html
FreedomPop  Inc., the wireless
Internet startup backed by Skype co-founder  Niklas Zennstrom ,
named Stephen Stokols its chief executive officer as it prepares
to offer limited access for free to iPhones and other devices.  Stokols, 37, was CEO of Woo Media Inc., a video-chat and
entertainment  startup  backed by Zennstrom that was sold in
November. Before then, Stokols worked as a vice president of
strategy and product development at  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  and as e-
commerce director for Qwest Communications International Inc.  FreedomPop, based in Los Angeles, will have wireless
service for laptops and smartphones ready in the next four to
eight weeks, Stokols said. The company will initially offer as
much as 1 gigabyte of free wireless Internet access per month to
30,000 to 50,000 users in the U.S., and could expand to 100,000
users within 90 days, he said.  “We are doing something that’s extremely disruptive and
potentially massive,” Stokols said in an Aug. 14 phone
interview. “We’ve got a lot of pent-up demand.”  FreedomPop will make money by charging for additional use
and for extra services the company could sell to clients over
their Internet connections, he said.  The wireless provider will first offer its service through
its website, where customers will be able to order a USB dongle
or a Wi-Fi hotspot device called Freedom Spot Photon to get
online, first via  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  and later through  Sprint
Nextel Corp. (S) ’s fourth-generation, or 4G, wireless network.
Later, FreedomPop will sell cases for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and
iPod that provide Web access.  Case Orders  Early next year, the company will start selling its devices
through a major online retailer and a large physical retailer,
Stokols said. FreedomPop has already received pre-orders for
“tens of thousands” of the cases, he said.  FreedomPop, which has about 40 employees, has raised $7.5
million from venture capitalists including Zennstrom, Stokols
said. It’s in the process of raising a “few million” dollars
in debt, he said. The company is also in talks to raise $15
million to $20 million more in venture funding, expected to
close later this year or in early 2013, he said.  Zennstrom co-founded Web-calling provider Skype with Janus Friis and sold the company in 2005 to online auctions provider
 EBay Inc. (EBAY)  for an eventual $3.1 billion. Later, a consortium that
included Zennstrom bought Skype back, and sold to  Microsoft
Corp. (MSFT)  in 2011 for $8.5 billion cash. Zennstrom also co-founded
other startups, including Kazaa, Joltid and Joost. He serves on
the boards of companies including mobile games maker Rovio
Entertainment Oy.  Woo Media, Stokols’s previous company, had 10 million
users, Stokols said. It raised $19 million in  venture capital 
before Zoosk Inc. bought the company for an undisclosed price.  Stokols holds a master’s degree in business administration
from the  University of California , Berkeley, and a master’s
degree in finance from the  London Business School .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  