-- Spanish 10-Year Bond Yield Drops to Month Low on ECB Speculation
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-08-16T16:32:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/spanish-italian-notes-snap-gain-amid-spain-bank-aid-speculation.html
Spanish 10-year bond yields dropped
to the least in a month amid speculation  Spain  is moving closer
to receiving aid from the  European Central Bank .  Two-year yields dropped the most in more than a week after
a person familiar with the matter said Spain is about to receive
an emergency payout from an aid package for the nation’s ailing
banks. German bunds,  Europe ’s benchmark government securities,
rose after a report showed  euro-area inflation  was unchanged
last month. ECB President  Mario Draghi  signaled on Aug. 2 that
the central bank would consider purchasing notes as part of
plans to stem the region’s debt crisis.  “The broad-based improvement in Spanish yields comes amid
more speculation that the ECB will buy Spanish debt,” said
 Peter Chatwell , a fixed-income strategist at Credit Agricole
Corporate & Investment Bank in London. “This may have served to
flush out a few more short positions,” referring to bets that
an asset will fall.  The yield on 10-year Spanish bonds dropped 12 basis points,
or 0.12 percentage point, to 6.52 percent at 5:05 p.m. London
time, the lowest level since July 12 and a fourth day of
declines. The 5.85 percent security due January 2022 rose 0.785,
or 7.85 euros per 1,000-euro ($1,236) face amount, to 95.31.  Spanish two-year yields slid 15 basis points to 3.99
percent, after falling as much as 19 basis points, the most
since Aug. 6. The additional yield investors demand to hold
Spanish 10-year debt over the notes rose six basis points to 261
basis points, the first time it had widened in eight days.  Spread Widens  The spread increased to as much as 343 basis points on Aug.
6, days after Draghi said that any ECB debt purchases would
focus “on the short end of the yield curve.”  Spain’s Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said earlier this week
he would ask the ECB to buy Spanish bonds “if it seems
reasonable” and “until we know what we are talking about, we
aren’t going to take any decisions.”  Cezary Lewanowicz, a spokesman for the European Commission
in Brussels, said Spain hasn’t requested mobilization of the
initial 30 billion-euro payment for its banks, declining to
comment further. Officials at the Frankfurt-based ECB and Bankia
and Spain’s Economy Ministry in  Madrid , declined to comment.  Spain will apply for aid at a meeting of finance ministers
and central bank governors next month, allowing the ECB to buy
Spanish government debt in the secondary market once approval 
is won, according to a Medley Global Advisors report Bloomberg 
News obtained. Medley officials weren’t immediately available 
to comment.  ECB Buying  “The move that happened a little earlier in part was
supported by the Medley report, which, while it didn’t say
anything new, just reminded everybody that in their view the
Spaniards will eventually ask for a bailout,”  Thomas Molloy ,
chief dealer at FX Solutions LLC, an online currency-trading
company in Saddle River,  New Jersey , said in a telephone
interview. “With a bailout will likely come some ECB buying,
which is likely to smack bond yields.”  Italian two-year yields slid 11 basis points to 3.22
percent, while German 10-year bund yields fell four basis points
to 1.53 percent, snapping a three-day advance.  Inflation in the 17-nation single-currency bloc remained at
2.4 percent from a year ago, the same as in June and May, the
European Union’s statistics office in Luxembourg said today,
confirming an initial estimate published on July 31.  Volatility on Finnish bonds was the highest in euro-area
markets today, followed by Italy and  Germany , according to
measures of 10-year debt, the spread between two-year and 10-
year securities and credit-default swaps.  German bonds returned 2.5 percent this year through
yesterday, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. Spanish
securities lost 3.8 percent, while Italy’s debt made 10 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  