-- Spotify, Pandora Spur U.S. Digital Music Sales Past CDs
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-08-16T21:16:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/spotify-pandora-spur-u-s-digital-music-sales-past-cds.html
The CD’s reign as the music
industry’s biggest U.S. revenue source will end this year,
eclipsed by downloads and newer streaming services such as
Spotify Ltd. and  Pandora Media Inc. (P) , according to a researcher.  U.S. digital music sales will rise to $3.4 billion this
year, exceeding the $3.38 billion in revenue from CDs and vinyl,
Boston-based Strategy Analytics Inc. said yesterday on its
 website . Globally, digital music will surpass physical purchases
in 2015, the company said.  Record companies  are licensing artists’ catalogs to
streaming services as CD purchases shrink. Sales of digital
tracks and albums will rise 6.7 percent this year, while
streaming revenue will climb 28 percent, Strategy Analytics
said. Together they account for 41 percent of U.S. music sales,
compared with 22 percent worldwide.  “Streaming music services such as Spotify and Pandora will
be the key growth drivers over the next five years as usage and
spending grow rapidly,” Ed Barton, director of digital media at
 Strategy Analytics , said in a statement. “The industry will be
hoping that digital can rebuild the U.S. music market to
something approaching its former stature.”  Pandora, based in Oakland, California,  gained  4.4 percent
to $9.71 at the close in New York. The company, which only
serves U.S. listeners, has declined 3 percent this year.
Spotify, the closely held London-based service, streams music in
15 countries, including the U.S. since July 2011.  Vinyl Decline  U.S. sales of CDs and vinyl will decline 9 percent in 2012,
a slower rate of decline than the rest of the world, Strategy
Analytics said. Total U.S. recorded music spending this year
will rise $134 million, or 2.1 percent, to about $6.38 billion,
according to the researcher.  Vivendi SA (VIV) ’s  Universal Music Group , the world’s biggest
record company, is seeking European regulatory approval for its
proposed $1.9 billion acquisition of EMI Group’s recorded music
business from  Citigroup Inc. (C)  A Sony Corp.-led investor group
purchased EMI’s music publishing in April for $2.2 billion.  Sony Music  is the second-biggest record company, followed
by billionaire Len Blavatnik’s Warner Music Group.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  