-- Square Lets Merchants Forgo Swipe Fees for Monthly Charge
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-08-16T23:51:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/square-lets-merchants-forgo-swipe-fees-for-monthly-charge.html
Square Inc., the mobile-payment
startup founded by Jack Dorsey, is giving small merchants more
flexibility in how they pay for credit-card transactions,
increasing competition with PayPal’s rival card reader.  Businesses with less than $250,000 in revenue a year will
have the choice to forgo the standard rate of 2.75 percent per
credit-card swipe and instead pay $275 a month with no fees,
Dorsey said in an interview today. Square lets retailers accept
payments through a device that plugs into a phone or tablet.  Dorsey is aiming to give customers a reason to choose
Square over PayPal Here, a mobile card reader from the  EBay Inc. (EBAY) 
unit that also plugs into the headphone jack of a smartphone yet
charges less -- 2.7 percent per transaction. The companies give
away the devices, which both accept the four major types of
credit cards, and generate revenue by collecting swipe fees.  “Sixty-two years ago was the first time a merchant was
charged a percentage on a transaction,” said Dorsey, chief
executive officer of Square and a co-founder of Twitter Inc.
“The industry really hasn’t reconsidered the pricing.”  Square, based in  San Francisco , is processing about $6
billion in transactions on an annualized basis. EBay’s PayPal
expects mobile-payment volume to reach $10 billion in 2012.
PayPal hasn’t said whether its product that competes with
Square, which was released in March, will contribute to the
total volume of mobile transactions.  Square’s flat monthly rate will give sellers another way to
predict costs and budget accordingly, Dorsey said.  Unpredictable Costs  Merchants usually “can’t predict what they’re going to pay
to accept these payments,” he said. “If you put a normal
credit card down, they may pay a really low rate. If you put a
card down with rewards, it might go up to as much as 5 percent.
What that means for a small business is they don’t understand
how much money they can use to spend on inventory.”  The $275 monthly rate is equivalent to a 1.3 percent fee
for the first $250,000 a business reaches in revenue, Square
said.  The checkout-anywhere devices are helping Square and PayPal
stand out in the market for mobile payments, which may top $170
billion in transactions by 2015, up from about $60 billion last
year, according to Juniper Research. Both gadgets accept cards
from  Visa Inc. (V) ,  MasterCard Inc. (MA) ,  Discover Financial Services (DFS)  and
 American Express Co. (AXP)   Starbucks Accord  Square said earlier this month that it will process all the
transactions in 7,000  Starbucks Corp. (SBUX)  stores, in an attempt to
leverage the more than 1 million mobile purchases the largest
coffee-shop chain already handles in the U.S. each week. While
Starbucks will use Square’s software to process each transaction
and will pay the startup a fee, the company won’t use Square’s
mobile-card reader. That means the checkout experience for
customers won’t change.  At the same time, Starbucks will invest $25 million in
Square, whose portable card reader is used by about 2 million
merchants and is available at Wal-Mart Stores Inc.,  Target Corp. (TGT) 
and Apple outlets. The coffee chain’s founder and chief
executive officer,  Howard Schultz , also joined the startup’s
board.  The Starbucks investment is part of $200 million in funding
that gives Square a valuation of $3.25 billion, a person with
knowledge of the matter said earlier this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Kucera in San Francisco at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  