-- Standard Bank Sees ’Challenging’ Six Months as Costs Rise
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2012-08-16T15:19:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/standard-bank-first-half-profit-climbs-9-on-lending-boost-1-.html
Standard Bank  Group Ltd.,  Africa ’s
largest lender, warned of a “challenging” six months ahead for
its consumer and corporate banking operations as costs at the
unit jumped 17 percent in the first half.  Operating expenses climbed to 19.2 billion rand ($2.3
billion) from 16.3 billion rand in the year-earlier period,
outstripping the 15 percent rise in income from banking
activities, the Johannesburg-based lender said in a statement
today. Loan impairments surged 35 percent to 3.9 billion rand.  Standard Bank has cut jobs and put an end to its expansion
in  emerging markets  to focus on boosting returns in its existing
operations in Africa. To lure customers and gain market share,
it has focused on offering services to low-income customers in
 South Africa . It has also increased mortgage lending to become
the country’s biggest provider of home loans, according to data
submitted to the central bank.  The bank’s “inability to rein in an out-of-control cost
line, especially after the big head count reduction in 2009 and
2010, is a big disappointment,” Neville Chester, a shareholder
and fund manager at Cape Town-based  Coronation Fund Managers
Ltd. (CML) , said by e-mail. “The growth has failed to exceed cost
growth.”  Finance Director Simon Ridley said costs won’t rise by as
much as 17 percent in the second half. Increases will be in the
“high teens,” he told investors on a call today.  Standard Bank closed 2.4 percent down at a three-week low
of 113.43 rand in Johannesburg trading.  Net income increased to 7.17 billion rand from 6.58 billion
rand in the year-earlier period, the company said. Total lending
increased 10 percent to 814 billion rand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at   dcrofts@bloomberg.net  