-- Standard Chartered Fought the Lawsky and the Lawsky Won
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-08-16T22:30:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/standard-chartered-fought-the-lawsky-and-the-lawsky-won.html
Benjamin Lawsky ,  New York ’s top
state banking regulator, shook up the financial world by
squeezing a record settlement out of  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  over
allegations that it laundered money for Iran. Let’s get this
much straight about him, too: He’s no rogue cop. He’s a loyal
soldier.  Look at the section on the New York State Department of
Financial Services website that lists the agency’s  press
releases  this year, and you will see a pattern. Most of the
headlines start with the name of New York Governor  Andrew Cuomo ,
not Lawsky, the department superintendent who serves at the
governor’s pleasure. Within minutes of Lawsky’s disclosure this
week that Standard Chartered had agreed to pay a $340 million
penalty, Cuomo released his own  statement  taking much of the
credit for the 10-month-old department’s creation last year.  Lawsky, 42, may be in the limelight as the person who put
the Department of Financial Services on the map. But the guy who
has his back is Cuomo. In an odd twist, Cuomo, 54, never scored
such a clear-cut victory in a high-profile case when he was New
York’s attorney general. Ever the grandstander, Cuomo publicly
 castigated  Moody’s Investors Service and  Standard & Poor’s 
during an investigation by his office in 2008, for instance,
only to reach a settlement later in which the discredited rating
companies paid  no penalties .  Banking Universe  The Cuomo administration has  upset  the banking universe’s
traditional pecking order. Under the usual way of doing
business, state regulators take a back seat to the  Federal
Reserve , the Treasury Department and the  Justice Department  and
do as they are told. Lawsky disliked the pace of their  Standard
Chartered  probe. He saw a case to be made based on state-law
violations. The U.K. bank’s initial $5 million settlement offer
to his department was an insult. So he went his own way, at the
risk of straining relations with other regulators.  The bank caved eight days after Lawsky  threatened  to revoke
its New York state license, and one day before it was scheduled
to appear at a hearing on the matter. The settlement is believed
to be the largest ever for an individual regulator in a money-
laundering case, although Standard Chartered deserved worse. In
June, ING Bank NV  agreed  to pay $619 million to settle criminal
claims that it moved about $2 billion of prohibited Cuban and
Iranian funds through the U.S. financial system. The penalty was
split evenly between the federal government and the Manhattan
District Attorney’s Office, which each collected $309.5 million
and let ING off with deferred-prosecution agreements.  Perhaps it is accurate for Lawsky’s  critics  in the federal
government to say he hijacked their investigation in an
ambitious power grab. Even if true, the public seems better off
for it. Lawsky’s counterparts will now feel pressure to seek
larger penalties for their own money-laundering settlements with
Standard Chartered. It is hard to see a downside in that.  The deal also blows up Standard Chartered’s assertion that
it had only $14 million of improper transactions with Iran,
which is the subject of U.S. economic sanctions. Lawsky, a
former federal prosecutor, estimated the figure at $250 billion.  Standard Chartered’s chief executive officer,  Peter Sands ,
last week tried to  frame  the issue as a disagreement over how to
interpret U.S. rules on so-called U-turn transactions, in which
overseas funds pass through a U.S. bank before being turned back
to foreign banks as dollars. As Lawsky’s order made clear, the
department’s case was always about Standard Chartered covering
up the use of its New York office to move Iranian banks’ money,
by stripping information from wire-transfer messages used to
identify sanctioned countries and individuals.  Clear Jurisdiction  The financial services department’s predecessor, the New
York State Banking Department, in 2004 entered a written
 agreement  with Standard Chartered and the Fed in which the bank
 promised  to correct deficiencies in its anti-money-laundering
systems. Lawsky contended that Standard Chartered lied to the
banking department about complying with that agreement, and lied
in its books and records about its transactions with  Iran . Those
are matters of state law over which Lawsky’s department had
clear  jurisdiction .  Standard Chartered at first tried to fight back against
Lawsky in the press,  saying  it “strongly rejects the position
and portrayal of facts” made in his Aug. 6 order. Perhaps
Standard Chartered now could say it paid up to avoid more bad
publicity and negate the risk (however slight) that Lawsky might
yank its license. The fact remains that it entered a settlement
in which “the parties have agreed that the conduct at issue
involved transactions of at least $250 billion,” according to
an Aug. 14  statement  released by Lawsky’s office.  U.K. officials, including  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King , were especially upset by Lawsky’s treatment of Standard
Chartered.  London  Mayor  Boris Johnson  even accused New York of
seeking to damage its biggest competitor as a financial center.
The criticism was off the mark. This was a turf battle between
federal and state agencies, not New York and London, although it
remains to be seen if Lawsky would ever have the nerve to
threaten a huge New York-based bank with serious penalties.  If the federal government would do a better job of
overseeing large banks, rather than protecting them, there would
be no opportunity or reason for someone like Lawsky to step in.
Having active, competent, functional state financial regulators
can only be a good thing. The country needs more.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View . Subscribe to
receive a  daily e-mail  highlighting new View editorials, columns
and op-ed articles.  Today’s highlights: the editors on the  U.S.’s ethanol policy  and
on  Israel’s threat  to strike Iran; Stephen L. Carter asks
whether anything is really  “politically impossible” ;  Noah
Feldman  on  Egypt’s democratic coup ; William Pesek on  reviving
India’s economy ;  Amity Shlaes  on  lessons of the lobster trade ;
Adam Kirsch on  presidential weakness  in the novel “Primary
Colors.”  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  