-- Sunshine Oilsands Favors a Venture With Sinopec to Tap Oil Sands
-- B y   A i b i n g   G u o
-- 2012-08-16T05:55:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/sunshine-oilsands-favors-a-venture-with-sinopec-to-tap-oil-sands.html
Sunshine Oilsands Ltd. (2012)  held talks
with cornerstone investor  China  Petrochemical Corp., the
nation’s biggest refiner, to jointly develop the Canadian
company’s  oil sands  reserves.  The companies discussed “every aspect” of forming a joint
venture to accelerate exploration and production of Sunshine’s
estimated 71 billion barrels of oil sands reserves, Chief
Executive Officer John Zahary said today in an interview in  Hong
Kong . He said they may establish a plan for a joint venture
within a year.  The Calgary-based oil sands explorer raised HK$4.5 billion
($580 million) in a Hong Kong initial public offering in March,
attracting cornerstone investors that include China’s sovereign
wealth fund China Investment Corp.,  China Life Insurance Co. (2628) ,
and China Petrochemical, also known as Sinopec Group.  “We need to sell our oil and they need to buy oil,”
Zahary said. “We need to hire people and they have many skilled
people, and we need to build infrastructure and they have a very
capable engineering and construction business.”  Sunshine Oilsands will not begin commercial oil production
until next year. It plans to produce 6,000 barrels a day at
three project areas in 2013, aiming to increase production to
200,000 barrels a day.  Open to All Options  “We are totally open to all options in shareholding
structure in the joint venture” including a minority stake,
Zahary said.  Sunshine Oilsands and a Sinopec Group Unit, Sinopec
International Exploration and Production Corp., signed an
agreement in January to examine joint-venture opportunities in
 Canada .  Lv Dapeng, Sinopec Group’s Beijing-based spokesman, did not
answer two calls to his office seeking comment.  “From a strategic point of view, Sinopec would love to
build-up its upstream asset portfolio in Canada through forming
partnerships,”said Simon Powell, the Hong Kong-based head of
Asian oil and gas research at CLSA Ltd.  Sinopec bought Calgary-based Daylight Energy Ltd. for $2.1
billion in November. In 2010, it bought a stake in Alberta’s
Syncrude Canada Ltd. for $4.65 billion.  Canadian oil sands production is expected to more than
double to 3.7 million barrels a day by 2025, according to the
Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.  Another Chinese oil major, China National Petroleum Corp.,
holds assets next to Sunshine Oilsands’ fields. Zahary said
Sunshine hasn’t formally talked with CNPC as the “synergy” is
not there between the two companies.  Cnooc Ltd. (883) , China’s largest offshore oil producer, last
month bid $15.1 billion for Calgary-based  Nexen Inc. (NXY) , a deal
being reviewed by the Canadian and U.S. governments amid
scrutiny of Chinese investments in  North America .  Zahary said he sees a 98 percent chance that Cnooc-Nexen
would be approved, citing Canada’s relatively open attitude to
foreign investment.  He said he didn’t expect Sinopec Group to encounter any
regulatory problem if it decided to invest in the joint venture.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Aibing Guo in Hong Kong at 
 aguo10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Rogers at 
 jrogers73@bloomberg.net  