-- Swap Dealers May Get Until January to Complete CFTC Registration
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-08-16T16:09:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/swap-dealers-may-get-until-january-to-complete-cftc-registration.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM)  and other firms may have until January to register
swap-dealing units subject to the highest collateral and conduct
standards under U.S. efforts to cut risk in the $648 trillion
market.  The  Commodity Futures Trading Commission  set in motion a
series of Dodd-Frank Act rules this week when it published a
regulation effective Oct. 12 determining when trades will be
considered swaps. Under a separate CFTC timetable, dealers may
get until at least January to register.  “You don’t start counting your dealer positions until Oct.
12,” Andrea S. Kramer, a Chicago-based partner and head of the
financial products, trading and derivatives group at law firm
McDermott Will & Emery LLP, said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “It would make no sense to apply the rules on the
same day you start counting dealer positions.”  Steven Adamske , the CFTC’s spokesman, declined to comment.  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,  France ’s second-largest bank, and
lobby groups representing U.S. and international financial
institutions have pressed the CFTC to delay registration of
swap-dealing units because its Dodd-Frank rulemaking hasn’t been
completed. The main U.S. derivatives regulator is taking
comments on a proposal for how the rules will apply to foreign-
based banks and units of U.S. banks operating overseas.  Prudence Questioned  “Our board is concerned that it may not be prudent to
expose SG to new and extensive regulatory oversight if the
extent of the oversight, and all applicable rules, are not
known,” Laura Schisgall, general counsel for  Societe Generale ’s
corporate and investment banking unit, and Mark Kaplan, the
unit’s chief operating officer, said in an Aug. 8 letter.  Bank of America  Corp.,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and JPMorgan have
also urged the CFTC to change its guidance.  “The CFTC could be clearer in outlining deadlines and when
exceptions are available,” Donald N. Lamson, Washington-based
counsel at Shearman & Sterling LLP, said today in a telephone
interview.  The agency estimated that 125 firms will register as swap
dealers, which will face the highest standards for collateral,
capital and conduct when trading with pension funds and cities.
Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in response to the
2008 credit crisis, includes provisions meant to reduce market
risk after largely unregulated trades helped fuel a collapse
that forced a U.S. bailout of  American International Group Inc. (AIG)   Footnotes  and details in  a CFTC regulation  published May 23
laid out a timeline for when and how firms must determine if
they meet the swap-dealer definition. Companies must first
determine whether they do at least $8 billion in aggregate gross
notional swap-dealing business with counterparties.  They must begin to aggregate trades starting on Oct. 12,
when the  swap-definition rule takes effect . The firms then get
two months from the end of the month they cross the $8 billion
threshold to register as dealers. That means if a firm crosses
the threshold in mid-October, they wouldn’t need to register
until January, though they could choose to do so earlier.  Without the ‘roll-in’ period, “entities whose dealing
activities surpass the relevant de minimis factors would
immediately be in violation of dealer registration
requirements,” the CFTC said in  final swap-dealer definitions 
released with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The extra
time was needed to avoid “undue market disruptions,” the
agencies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gregory Mott at 
 gmott1@bloomberg.net  