-- Sweden’s Banks Conceal Mortgage Risks Borg Pledges to Lay Bare
-- B y   N i k l a s   M a g n u s s o n   a n d   J o h a n   C a r l s t r o m
-- 2012-08-16T22:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/swedish-banks-need-to-adjust-risk-weights-eventually-borg-says.html
Sweden’s banks , Europe’s safest on
paper, have been hiding mortgage-asset risk behind rules the
government now says are out of date and too lax.  Finance Minister  Anders Borg  said yesterday he wants banks
to raise the risk weights on their mortgage assets as a next
step to enforcing some of the world’s highest  capital ratios .
Stricter risk-weight requirements could add as much as 2.5
percentage points to  reserve requirements , the central bank
estimates.  After enforcing higher capital ratios through 2015,
“eventually, we ought to adjust risk weights,” Borg said in
response to questions in Stockholm yesterday. “We have an
exposed banking sector that we need to deal with.”  Low risk weights have fueled house price growth and
borrowing in Sweden, where residential property prices are now
20 percent overvalued, according to the National Housing Credit
Guarantee Board, or BKN. Sweden, which already requires  Nordea
Bank AB (NDA) ,  Svenska Handelsbanken AB (SHBA) ,  SEB AB (SEBA)  and Swedbank AB to
target bigger capital buffers than those set by the  Basel
Committee on Banking Supervision , says the industry is still
understating potential losses.  “The risks are much higher today than the historical data
indicate,” Bengt Hansson, head of research at  BKN , which
advises the government on housing finance, said in an interview.
“With that in mind, banks should have bigger reserves on
mortgages.”  ‘The Problem’  The Financial Supervisory Authority says that a habit of
basing calculations for potential losses on historic data
doesn’t reflect the risks banks may face in the future.  “The problem with that reasoning is that’s always the way
it is before things go wrong,” Par Magnusson, chief economist
at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc in Stockholm, said in an
interview. “As an example, until 2006,  U.S. house prices  had
never fallen and credit losses in the U.S. had never exceeded
2.5 percent.”  Risk weights on Swedish housing loans are among the lowest
in  Europe , averaging about 6 percent, according to the central
bank. That compares with an average of more than 15 percent in
 Germany . Sweden’s FSA wants to increase risk weights -- which
determine how much capital a bank must set aside to guard
against potential losses -- to as high as 20 percent.  Banks in the largest Nordic economy have been basing their
loss estimates on housing market data going back as far as the
1990s. Since then, household indebtedness has swelled, leaving
Swedes more vulnerable to declines in property prices, Magnusson
said. Household debt reached 170 percent of disposable incomes
in 2010, compared with 90 percent in the mid-1990s, according to
central bank data.  Housing Bubble   Bank lending to households  rose 50 percent to 2.65 trillion
kronor ($396 billion) in 2011 from 2006, driven by an 86 percent
increase in mortgage lending to 2.12 trillion kronor, according
to Statistics  Sweden .  “We have a housing bubble in Sweden and one of the biggest
risk factors in the Swedish economy is household indebtedness,”
Hansson said. “If prices were to fall by 20 percent, there
would be credit losses on mortgages for the banks, as we have
seen elsewhere in the world. It is good to have large reserves
so that a bank crisis stays at bank loan losses and doesn’t
spill over too much to the state.”  Raising Swedish risk weights to 20 percent would reduce the
capital ratio at Swedbank, Sweden’s biggest mortgage lender, to
12.3 percent from its current 14.8 percent, according to central
bank estimates based on Basel III requirements. Handelsbanken,
the second-biggest home-loan provider, would see its 14.6
percent ratio drop to 12.4 percent.  Basel Rules  Nordea, the Nordic region’s largest lender, and SEB would
see their common equity Tier 1 ratios drop to 10.2 percent from
10.5 percent, and to 11 percent from 11.6 percent, respectively,
the central bank estimates.  Swedish banks need to target capital ratios of at least 10
percent from January and 12 percent from 2015. That compares
with the 7 percent minimum requirement set by the Basel
Committee from 2019 on.  The banks themselves, which suffered a housing bubble and
financial crisis that laid the industry to waste in the early
1990s, say there may be a need to rethink risk calculations.  “We agree that the current risk weights are too low and
don’t reflect the risks in terms of household indebtedness,”
Goran Bronner, chief financial officer at Swedbank, said in an
interview. “It’s like when you’re driving a car -- you cannot
only look in the back-mirror, you also have to look ahead.”  Somewhat Inflated  Bronner said an average risk weight of about 15 percent on
mortgages would be “adequate.” That means reported capital
ratios are “somewhat inflated,” though “Sweden’s banking
system is still very well-capitalized,” he said.  The FSA, which in June delayed plans to push for higher
risk weights as it awaits a Europe-wide agreement on bank
regulation, now wants to have its proposal ready to coincide
with implementation of the higher capital ratios, said Aino
Bunge, executive director of economic analysis at the Stockholm-
based watchdog.  The new model is “preventive” and will make “risk
weights on mortgages more adequate for the future,” Bunge said
in an interview.  According to Hansson at BKN, the danger is that the
authorities will do too little too late as imbalances continue
to grow in Sweden’s mortgage market.  “Valuations are stretched and there will be an adjustment
ahead of us,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Niklas Magnusson in Hamburg at 
 nmagnusson1@bloomberg.net 
Johan Carlstrom in  Stockholm  at 
 jcarlstrom@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 