-- Syms Gets OK to Sell Miami Property for $4.4 Million
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B a t h o n
-- 2012-08-16T19:15:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/syms-gets-ok-to-sell-miami-property-for-4-4-million.html
Syms Corp. (SYMSQ) , the bankrupt discount
clothing chain, and its Filene’s Basement LLC unit won court
approval to sell a Miami property for $4.35 million.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Kevin J. Carey at a hearing today in
Wilmington,  Delaware , gave the company permission to sell the
assets to Florida-based Independent Living Systems LLC, the
initial bidder for the property.  The sale was at “fair market value and was the highest and
best offer,” Jason M. Liberi, a lawyer for Syms, told Carey.
The sale is “essential” to the retailer’s reorganization
effort, he added.  No other offers surfaced to compete with Independent
Living, Liberi said in court. Independent Living will get
3.6 acres (1.5 hectares) in Miami with more than 5,000 square
feet (465 square meters) of building space. The sale is expected
to close during the week of Aug. 27.  The company shut down operations and sold its remaining
inventory after seeking  bankruptcy protection  Nov. 2. Syms and
Filene’s crafted a restructuring plan to reorganize around Syms’
real estate assets, valued at about $147 million, which they
would then manage, lease and sell over the coming years,
according to court documents.  The company listed  assets  of $236 million, including
$97.7 million in real estate inventories, and liabilities of
$94 million, according to court papers.  Sy Syms  Syms, based in Secaucus,  New Jersey , was founded by  Sy Syms 
in 1958. The company bought Filene’s Basement in a bankruptcy
auction for about $64.4 million in June 2009. They had 25 Syms
stores and 21 Filene’s Basement locations.  Filene’s, famous for the “Running of the Brides” wedding
gown sale, was founded by Edward Filene in 1909, when he opened
up his Boston basement to clear out merchandise from his
family’s department store, eventually leading other retailers to
bring their unsold goods to him, according to the store’s
 website .  The lead case is In re Filene’s Basement LLC, 11-13511, U.S
Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware (Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Bathon in Wilmington at 
 mbathon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  