-- Syrian Battle Puts Art Treasures at Risk: Martin Gayford
-- B y   M a r t i n   G a y f o r d
-- 2012-08-17T22:02:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/syrian-battle-puts-art-treasures-at-risk-martin-gayford.html
One casualty of the current Syrian
conflict is seldom mentioned in the news: the country’s
extraordinary archaeological and architectural heritage.  The landscape is covered, in some areas thickly, with late
Roman cities, medieval and Byzantine castles, mosques, and early
Christian churches.  When I visited them two years ago, they seemed half-
forgotten, scarcely visited and extraordinarily intact.  (To see a slideshow of ancient Syrian sites, click  here .)  Now the defensive positions that were used hundreds of
years ago have been fought over once again. Tanks have occupied
buildings originally fortified hundreds, even thousands, of
years ago. Ancient walls have been blown up and classical
mosaics looted from museums.  One of the places affected is  Apamea , a city in the valley
of the Orontes in central Syria, founded in 300 B.C. It was a
wonderfully tranquil place when I went there. I walked down the
1,850 meter (6,070 feet) colonnade of the Roman era main street
and admired the mosaics in the little museum. Since then,
thieves have managed to remove two huge stone capitals from that
astonishing street.  Photographs of 12 mosaics stolen from that museum are now
on the Interpol  website . The mosaics were drilled out of the
floors and walls, according to reports in the  Daily Star  of
Lebanon and the quarterly journal Antiquity.  Shelled Citadel  The 13th-century citadel of al-Madiq located above the site
of ancient Apamea -- which contains a village within its walls -
-is on YouTube, with its caption indicating it was heavily
shelled in January.  Apamea is just one example. Among numerous others is the
Crusader fortress of Krac des Chevaliers, often regarded as the
most magnificent castle surviving anywhere. It was also shelled,
causing damage to the chapel within. The historic buildings of
Homs have been shattered, judging from photographs.  There are six UNESCO World Heritage Sites in  Syria :
Damascus, Aleppo, Krac des Chevaliers, Bosra, Palmyra and the
deserted late classical settlements known as the Dead Cities
that dot the northern landscape.  Every single one of these has been damaged, or is currently
under threat. Aleppo, with its magnificent souk and medieval
citadel, has been the center of an intense firefight.  There’s also a high risk of organized theft from the
museums of Syria, especially the smaller provincial ones.  Already losses have been reported from a number of them,
including the one in the little town of Maarat al-Numaan, site
of an uprising against the Assad regime in 2011.  Destruction List  The mosaics there were even more spectacular than those at
Apamea. The list of destruction goes on and on. A detailed
report on the damage up to May 2012 by Emma Cunliffe of Durham
University is available on the  Global Heritage Fund  website.  Obviously all of the above, though very sad, matters little
in comparison with the tens of thousands of human casualties in
the war. Equally, there’s not a great deal that can be done
about it.  UNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova has called more than
once for both sides to respect the cultural heritage of Syria.  Of course, there’s not much hope that, in the heat of a
bitter civil war, they will. It’s worth remembering, however,
that as well as being a battle zone, Syria is an extraordinarily
beautiful place. At some point it just may be possible to do
something to protect it.  (Martin Gayford is chief art critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  Muse highlights include  Lewis Lapham  on history,  Zinta
Lundborg’s   New York  weekend and  Mark Beech  on arts.  To contact the writer on the story:
Martin Gayford at  martin.gayford@googlemail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 