-- U.K. Says Technology Advances May Cut Carbon Capture Cost by 29%
-- B y   S a l l y   B a k e w e l l
-- 2012-08-16T16:39:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/u-k-says-technology-advances-may-cut-carbon-capture-cost-by-29-.html
The U.K. government said advances in
technology may help reduce a projected 143 billion-pound ($225
billion) cost of capturing and burying carbon from  power plants 
by as much as 29 percent through 2050 to meet emission goals.  New discoveries may save 41 billion pounds from the cost of
deploying 30 gigawatts of power plants fitted with the carbon
capture and storage equipment by 2050, according to a  report 
from authorities including the Department of Energy and Climate
Change and the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills.  The state is contributing 1 billion pounds to promote CCS
technology, yet to be fully put in place at a power station on a
large scale, as it seeks to curb emissions while ensuring power
supply. The report is one of three on low-carbon technology from
the group of bodies also including  Scotland ’s government and the
Energy Technologies Institute. High costs and regulation mean
widespread deployment of CCS is unlikely before 2020, they said.  The 30-gigawatt figure is a “medium scenario,” according
to the report, which also gave a potential cost of 69 billion
pounds before technology savings of 14.8 billion pounds, and 279
billion pound costs, excluding savings of 66.8 billion pounds.  The cost cuts would need new technology to be developed in
areas including emissions capture, transport and storage, as
well as developments in monitoring, according to the report.  “Innovation is key to the growth of the low-carbon economy
here in the U.K.”, Energy and Climate Change Minister  Greg Barker  said today in a  statement  accompanying the report. The
British CCS industry may contribute 8 billion to 16 billion
pounds to the economy by 2050, according to the release.  To contact the reporter responsible for this story:
Sally Bakewell in London at 
 Sbakewell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  