-- U.K. Retail Sales Unexpectedly Rise on Fuel Discounting: Economy
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-08-16T11:07:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/u-k-retail-sales-unexpectedly-rise-as-discounting-boosts-fuel.html
U.K. retail sales  unexpectedly rose
in July as promotions helped to boost gasoline sales and food
sales increased.  Sales including auto fuel gained 0.3 percent from June, the
 Office for National Statistics  said today in  London . The median
forecast of 22 economists in a  Bloomberg News survey  was for a
0.1 percent decline. Sales in June were revised to a 0.8 percent
gain from 0.1 percent, which means second-quarter sales fell 0.3
percent, less than initially estimated. The ONS said the change
would have a negligible impact on gross domestic product.  The report follows factory and construction data suggesting
GDP may have fallen less than the 0.7 percent estimated in the
second quarter.  Jobless claims  dropped in July and the Bank of
England says cooling inflation may help to bolster demand.
Still, with the euro-area crisis showing little sign of abating
and the U.K. government cutting spending, any recovery is likely
to be only gradual.  “Together with yesterday’s firm looking jobs numbers, we
continue to have doubts about the message from the GDP report,
suggesting the U.K. is in a deepening recession,” said  James Knightley , an economist at ING Bank NV in London. “That said,
the uncertainty over the U.K. data, coupled with worries about
 Europe  and the U.S. fiscal cliff will keep the BOE wary.”  The pound advanced against the euro and the dollar. It was
0.1 percent stronger at $1.5694 as of 11:42 a.m. London time and
advanced 0.2 percent to 78.21 pence per euro.  Fuel Sales  Gasoline sales surged 2.6 percent in July from June, the
statistics office said, partly due to promotions that saw fuel
prices drop 0.8 percent on the month. Food sales rose 0.4
percent, while non-store retailing gained 1.4 percent. From a
year earlier, overall retail sales increased 2.8 percent.  In the three months through July, sales rose 0.9 percent
compared with the previous three months and were up 2.5 percent
from a year earlier.  Excluding fuel , sales were unchanged in
July from June and were up 3.3 percent on the year.  The July trading period covered two days of the London
Olympics and the statistics office said responses from retailers
suggested there was no impact on sales from the games.  Today’s report also showed that the annual price deflator
fell to 0.2 percent in July from 0.3 percent in June, the lowest
since October 2009. The deflator on food declined to the lowest
since February 2010. The statistics office said that for the
past 2 1/2 years, increased sales at department stores has
mainly been a result of “on-going promotions and discounting.”  Inflation Outlook  Bank of England  policy makers forecast that inflation will
ease toward their 2 percent target over the next year and have
left the door open to more stimulus if needed. Minutes of their
August meeting showed they voted unanimously to keep their  bond-
purchase target  at 375 billion pounds ($588 billion) this month.
Inflation accelerated to 2.6 percent in July.  Data yesterday showed jobless-benefit claims fell 5,900
last month from June. Unemployment as measured by International
Labour Organization methods fell to a one-year low of 8 percent
in the second quarter. Employment also rose in the quarter,
suggesting hiring by private companies is making up for the loss
of tens of thousands of public-sector jobs.  Elsewhere today,  foreign direct investment  in  China  fell to
the lowest level in two years in July, fueling concern that
waning confidence in the nation’s growth prospects may restrain
any economic rebound. Investment declined 8.7 percent from a
year earlier to $7.58 billion, the eighth drop in nine months
and the smallest inflow since July 2010.  Euro-Area Prices  In Europe,  euro-area inflation  was 2.4 percent in July, the
same as in June and May, the European Union’s  statistics office 
in Luxembourg said, confirming an estimate published on July 31.
 Core inflation , excluding energy costs, quickened to 1.7 percent
from 1.6 percent, the fastest since April 2009.  Spanish  exports  slowed in June, undermining the only growth
driver left in the euro region’s fourth-biggest economy as the
strictest austerity push in decades deepened the second
 recession  since 2009. Spanish exports rose 5.1 percent to 18.9
billion euros ($23.2 billion) compared with a 10.8 percent
increase a year earlier and a 6.2 percent increase in May, the
 Economy Ministry  said in a statement from  Madrid  today.  In  Switzerland , an index of  investor confidence  and analyst
expectations increased to minus 33.3 in August from minus 42.5
in July,  Germany ’s ZEW and Zurich-based  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) 
said in a statement today.  U.S. Homebuilding  In the U.S.,  house building  held near a four-year high in
July, according to economists surveyed before a report from the
Commerce Department due at 8:30 a.m. in  Washington .  Builders broke ground on 756,000 houses at an annual rate,
according to the  median of 79 estimates  compiled by Bloomberg
News. June’s 760,000 pace was the highest since October 2008.  The  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia  will say that
 manufacturing  in its region shrank for a fourth month,
economists forecast. The bank’s  index  climbed to minus 5 in
August from minus 12.9 in July, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. Figures less than zero indicate contraction.  A Labor Department report may show  jobless claims  rose to
365,000 last week from 361,000 a week earlier, according to the
 median forecast  of 45 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Matthew Brockett at 
 mbrockett1@bloomberg.net  