-- U.S. Loses Bid to Limit Disclosure in Dotcom Extradition
-- B y   J o e   S c h n e i d e r
-- 2012-08-16T06:12:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/u-s-loses-bid-to-limit-disclosure-in-dotcom-extradition.html
The U.S. lost a bid to limit the
amount of information it must turn over to Megaupload.com
founder Kim Dotcom, accused of orchestrating the biggest
copyright infringement in the country’s history, in his fight
against extradition from  New Zealand .  New Zealand High Court Justice Helen Winkelmann today
 rejected  a U.S. request to review a district court judge’s order
to turn over evidence relating to Dotcom’s indictment, including
all records obtained in connection with covert operations
undertaken by agents involved in the investigation.  “The NZ High Court ruling in @KimDotcom case citing Bill
of Rights protects Kim’s rights and the rights of all New
Zealand residents,” Ira Rothken, a lawyer for Dotcom, wrote on
Twitter following the ruling.  Dotcom, 38, was indicted in what U.S. prosecutors dubbed a
“Mega Conspiracy,” accusing his file-sharing website of
generating more than $175 million in criminal proceeds from the
exchange of pirated film, music, book and software files. He
faces as long as 20 years in prison for each of the racketeering
and money-laundering charges in the indictment, with the U.S.
seeking his extradition for a trial in  Virginia .  The amount of documentation ordered to be turned over to
Dotcom was unprecedented in the country or anywhere else for
extradition cases, the U.S. had said.  “Disclosure in relation to extradition cases is extremely
limited,” prosecutors had said, according to a summary of the
arguments written by Winkelmann.  Extradition hearings are “essentially criminal in
character” and the accused must be assured a fair hearing,
according to New Zealand’s Bill of Rights, Winkelmann wrote.  “The more significant the rights affected, the more
stringent the procedural rules designed to maintain the fairness
of the process are likely to be,” the judge wrote.  The case is between  United States of America  and Kim
Dotcom. Civ 2012-404-3026.  High Court  of New Zealand (Auckland).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joe Schneider in Sydney at 
 jschneider5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  