-- U.S. Seasonal Drought Outlook for Aug. 16 to Nov. 30 (Text)
-- B y   S t e p h e n   R o s e
-- 2012-08-16T12:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/u-s-seasonal-drought-outlook-for-aug-16-to-nov-30-text-.html
Following is the text of the U.S.
 Seasonal Drought Outlook  as released by the National Weather
Service in  Camp Springs , Maryland:  Latest Seasonal Assessment - Drought covered over 60 percent of
the contiguous 48 states as of mid-August 2012, although
significant expansion finally halted during the last couple of
weeks. Still, almost one-quarter of the country was experiencing
extreme to exceptional drought (D3 - D4 on the Drought Monitor),
primarily in a large swath generally extending from the central
Rockies eastward through the Mississippi and Ohio River Valleys.
Many locations from Indiana, the western reaches of Tennessee
and Kentucky, and Arkansas westward through parts of Iowa,
central Kansas, and eastern  Oklahoma  received 8 to 12 inches
less precipitation than normal April 1 - August 14, 2012, with a
few areas reporting deficits exceeding one foot. According to
the  U.S. Department of Agriculture , 51 percent of the corn crop
was in poor or very poor condition across the 18 primary corn-
producing states, as was 48 percent of sorghum (11 primary
producing states) and 38 percent of soybeans (18 states). For
the contiguous 48 states as a whole, 59 percent of pastures and
rangelands were in poor or very poor condition, with 4 states
reporting more than 90 percent of their pastures and rangelands
in poor or very poor condition (Missouri 98 percent, Illinois 94
percent,  Nebraska  92 percent, Kansas 90 percent) and another 6
states topping 85 percent. The Drought Outlook valid through the
end of November 2012 indicates drought conditions will remain
essentially unchanged in large sections of the central
Mississippi Valley, the central and southwestern Great Plains,
most of the High Plains, the central Rockies, the Great Basin,
and parts of the Far West, though the seasonal declines in
temperatures, evaporative moisture loss, and water demand should
preclude any widespread worsening of conditions. At least some
improvement is forecast for much of the central Rockies, the
Southwest, the southern Great Plains, the Ohio Valley, the Great
Lakes region, the upper Midwest, and the eastern tier of states.
In Hawaii, the odds favor cooler- and drier-than-normal
conditions through the rest of the year as a whole, which should
cause drought to persist and expand through most of the state
except for eastern sections of the Big Island. The developing El
Niño episode, expected to last through the winter, could begin
to bring above-normal precipitation to parts of the southern and
eastern states late in the period.
Discussion for the Seasonal Drought Outlook  Tools used in the U.S. Drought Outlook (USDO) included the
official CPC temperature and precipitation outlooks for
September 2012 and the long lead forecast for September through
November 2012, various medium- and short-range forecasts and
models such as the 6-10 day and 8-14 day forecasts, the most
recent 384-hour GFS total precipitation amounts, the soil
moisture tools based on the Constructed Analog on Soil (CAS)
moisture, the Climate Forecast System (CFS, versions 1 and 2),
the four-month Palmer drought termination and amelioration
probabilities, climatology, and initial conditions.  For the eastern tier of states, improving conditions are
expected both in the Southeast and Northeast, some improvement
is expected across the interior mid-Atlantic region, and
persistence is expected in  Delaware  and adjacent  Maryland . The
odds favor above-normal rainfall through the last half of August
in all these areas, and the long-lead forecast leans wet in
western  Georgia  and adjacent  Alabama . The southeastern drought
region has been slowly improving for a number of months now, and
given short-term forecasts and the potential for the developing
El Niño to bring enhanced rainfall to the region late in the
period, improvement is the logical forecast. In the Northeast,
the expected wetness during the last half of August, the
seasonal drop in temperatures (inducing less surface water
evaporation and reduced water demand) and the potential for snow
late in the period (which can efficiently replenish soil
moisture content) all argue for improvement there. The interior
mid-Atlantic region is less clear-cut given the milder autumn
temperatures (relative to the Northeast) and the lack of a
strong correlation between El Niño conditions and precipitation
during this period, so a forecast of some improvement seemed
most prudent. In the coastal mid-Atlantic region, significant
precipitation deficits date back a couple of years if not more.
Here, drought conditions should persist given the amount of
precipitation necessary to substantially reduce large, long-term
precipitation deficits
Forecast confidence for the Eastern States is high in the
Northeast and Southeast, and moderate in the mid-Atlantic
region.  For the large area of drought covering areas from the High
Plains eastward through much of the Mississippi and Ohio River
Valleys, the forecast is difficult to say the least. Above-
normal precipitation (indeed, locally heavy rainfall) is
expected during August 16 - 21, 2012 in the southern tier of the
region from central and eastern  Texas  eastward; odds favor
above-normal precipitation for the remainder of August from
southern and eastern Texas, the lower Mississippi Valley, the
Ohio Valley, and the eastern Great Lakes region eastward to the
Atlantic Coast; and the long-lead outlook for September -
November 2012 indicates enhanced chances for above-normal
precipitation in eastern Texas, Louisiana, and Alabama. Farther
north and west, near- to below-normal precipitation seems more
likely in the High Plains and northern half of the Great Plains
for the last half of August, and the September - November
outlook leans neither dry nor wet. These precipitation
considerations are rather straightforward, but what complicates
matters is the seasonal decline in temperatures, which brings
with it reduced evaporative water loss, lower water demand, and
declining vegetative need for soil moisture. This consideration
is particularly important this year given how excessive summer
heat amplified and accelerated drought development in the
central  United States . In the end, improvement was forecast in
southern Texas (where both weeks during the last half of August
could be quite wet), the lower Mississippi Valley (where odds
favor a wet September - November), the Ohio Valley and eastern
Great Lakes region (where wet weather is favored in late August,
and where the seasonal temperature decline could have a
significant effect), and the upper Midwest and northern Plains
(primarily for a more marked effect from cooler autumn
temperatures, and because precipitation deficits do not date
back quite as far as in many other areas). Some improvement was
forecast in areas adjacent to these improvement regions, and
persistence was forecast effectively for the interior and
western parts of this large drought region. However, the effect
of cooler autumn weather is not easy to determine, and given the
indeterminate precipitation forecast, improvement could well be
felt in a considerably larger part of this region. The most
likely area for persistence is across southern Nebraska,  Kansas ,
Oklahoma, and the southern High Plains, where near or below
normal precipitation is anticipated in the short term, the
September - November period leans neither wet nor dry, autumn
temperatures are relatively mild, and excessive heat has been
felt more recently than in areas farther east, north, and even
south.
Forecast confidence is low through most of the central United
States, but moderate in Kansas, Oklahoma, and the southern half
of the High Plains.  From the Rockies westward, improvement was forecast for much of
 Arizona  and adjacent portions of southern  California ,
southeastern  Utah , southwestern  Colorado , and western New
Mexico. A fairly narrow area of some improvement surrounds the
improvement area, with drought expected to persist farther north
and west, as well as in central  New Mexico . The September -
November outlook identifies enhanced chances for above-normal
precipitation in the Southwest, leading to a forecast of
improvement there. Just to the north and northeast of this
region in southwestern Colorado and nearby areas, this is a
fairly wet time of year, so the chances for improvement are
fairly good, especially as autumn temperatures decline.
Elsewhere in the West, however, the last half of August looks
dry, and the 3-month outlook favors below-normal precipitation
in central California, northwestern  Nevada ,  Oregon , and adjacent
 Idaho . In addition, mountain snow water content is one critical
indicator of drought given the way water is managed in the West
and the ecology of the region. Precipitation during September -
November has little impact on mountain snow water content, which
typically peaks in the spring, and thus drought tends to change
little during this time of the year.
Forecast confidence from the Rockies westward is high, except
moderate in and near the improvement area across southwestern
Colorado and immediately adjacent areas in Utah, New Mexico, and
Arizona.  Most indicators point toward cooler and drier than normal
weather prevailing across Hawaii for the rest of the year as a
whole. Therefore, drought is expected to persist where it
already exists, and expand to cover most of the state (except
the eastern Big Island) by the end of November.
Forecast confidence for Hawaii is moderate.  SOURCE:  National Weather Service   To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Rose in Washington at 
 srose31@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  