-- ubs phony transactions
-- B y   E m i l y   G r a n n i s
-- 2012-08-16T21:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/ubs-phony-transactions.html
CDR Financial Products Inc. took
payments from  UBS AG (UBSN) ’s municipal derivatives group for work CDR
never performed 10 to 15 times in return for rigging municipal
bond bids, a former CDR senior vice president told jurors in
 Manhattan  federal court today.  Douglas Goldberg, who worked for  Beverly Hills , California-
based CDR from 1994 until 2006, testified four members of the
UBS team facilitated payments from Financial Security Assurance
Holdings Ltd. to CDR for brokering swap transactions CDR never
did.  According to Goldberg, the payments, the largest of which
was for about $475,000, were actually to thank CDR for ensuring
FSA Holdings and UBS won bids CDR brokered.  Goldberg is testifying for the government in a trial
against Peter Ghavami, the former head of UBS’s municipal
derivatives group, and Michael Welty and Gary Heinz, both former
vice presidents in the group. The men are charged with
conspiracy to defraud municipal issuers and U.S. tax
authorities, as well as  wire fraud  and mail fraud.  Goldberg also testified about examples of transactions he
said he rigged with UBS.  Discussing one involving the Centinela Valley Unified
School District in Lawndale,  California , Goldberg told jurors,
“I called Mark Zaino at UBS and told him that we were going to
be doing this transaction and we could set it up for him.”  Zaino, a former member of the UBS municipal derivatives and
reinvestment desk, testified for the government earlier in the
trial.  Winning Bid  Goldberg said he told Zaino UBS would owe CDR if it won the
bid.  “You’ll have to figure out some way to get us paid,”
Goldberg said he told Zaino. Within two days, Goldberg told
jurors, UBS had asked CDR to send an invoice for $65,000
supposedly for a deal involving the state of  Illinois . Goldberg
said that though CDR didn’t work on the Illinois deal, it did
get paid.  Goldberg pleaded guilty in March 2010 to one count of bid
rigging and two counts of fraud. He is testifying as part of a
cooperation agreement with the government, but told jurors he
faces up to 35 years in prison.  Defense attorneys will begin questioning Goldberg tomorrow.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emily Grannis in New York at 
 egrannis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  