-- UBS’s Outlook Raised to Stable by S&P on Risk Reductions
-- B y   D a v i d   S c h e e r
-- 2012-08-16T16:18:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/ubs-outlook-revised-to-stable-by-s-p-on-investment-bank-overhaul.html
UBS AG (UBSN) , Switzerland’s largest bank,
had the outlook on its  credit rating  revised to “stable” from
“negative” by  Standard & Poor’s , which cited the firm’s
efforts to reduce risks in its investment bank.  “The stable outlook reflects our view that UBS will
continue to refocus the investment-banking division’s operating
model and reduce risk exposures, amid continued strained
economic and market conditions,” S&P said in a statement today.  The rating company affirmed Zurich-based UBS’s A long-term
and A-1 short-term counterparty credit ratings, S&P said. The
 bank rose  1 percent to 10.55 Swiss francs in Zurich trading,
trimming the  decline  this year to 5.6 percent.  UBS posted a 58 percent drop in  second-quarter profit  last
month, hurt by a loss at the investment bank. Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Ermotti  is shrinking the unit’s risk-weighted
assets by more than half to focus on wealth management as rising
capital requirements and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis drag on
profitability. The 52-year-old Ermotti took over last year after
his predecessor  Oswald Gruebel  stepped down following a $2.3
billion loss the bank blamed on unauthorized trading.  UBS already cut total annualized expenses by 1.1 billion
francs ($1.13 billion) in the first half from a year ago and
reached its 2013 headcount reduction target at the securities
unit, Ermotti told reporters on July 31. The bank will further
adjust costs for the group and its investment bank, he said.  The bank said in a statement S&P’s decision “reflects the
significant progress that we have made in adapting to changes in
the regulatory and market environment.” The rating company
“also acknowledges that UBS is well positioned to withstand the
ongoing economic and political uncertainty in the euro zone,”
UBS added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Scheer in  New York  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  