-- HUD to Auction $1.7 Billion in Delinquent Home Mortgages
-- B y   J o h n   G i t t e l s o h n
-- 2012-08-16T16:12:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/hud-to-auction-1-7-billion-in-delinquent-home-mortgages.html
A $1.7 billion portfolio of non-
performing, federally insured home loans will be offered for
sale at auction next month as the government seeks to reduce
losses from mounting foreclosures.  The loans will be auctioned in pools consisting of homes in
 Chicago ; Phoenix; Newark,  New Jersey ; and Tampa,  Florida ,
according to a statement today from SEBA Professional Services,
a Washington-based financial adviser, and Debt Exchange Inc., a
Boston-based online loan-auction service also known as DebtX.
They are handling the sale for the portfolio, which consists of
9,442 loans with an average balance of $182,000, for the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development.  “There is pent-up demand in the investor community to
acquire assets in bulk,” DebtX Chief Executive Officer Kingsley Greenland said in the statement.  The  Federal Housing Administration , the HUD agency that
insures loans to first-time homebuyers and other borrowers with
limited funds for down payments, expected to sell 9,000
discounted loans in September to start its expanded bulk-sale
program, acting FHA Commissioner Carol Galante said last month.
The FHA’s bulk sales began in 2010 with a pilot program that
offered buyers as much as 65 percent off unpaid loan balances
with the understanding that they would write down debt and
modify terms to help borrowers keep their homes.  About 9 percent of FHA-insured mortgages were 90 days late
or in  foreclosure  as of June 30, compared with 7.3 percent rate
for all home loans, the  Mortgage Bankers Association  said on
Aug. 2. Foreclosure starts on FHA-insured loans increased to
1.53 percent in the second quarter, up 0.57 percentage point
from the previous three months. It was the only type of mortgage
with an increase in foreclosure starts during the period, the
association said.  SEBA and DebtX will accept bids from qualified buyers on
Sept. 12, the companies said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Gittelsohn in  Los Angeles  at 
 johngitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kara Wetzel at 
 kwetzel@bloomberg.net  