-- UN Ends Syria Mission; Gulf Citizens Told to Flee Lebanon
-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-08-17T17:00:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/un-ends-syria-mission-as-gulf-citizens-urged-to-flee-lebanon.html
The  United Nations Security Council 
won’t renew its unarmed observer mission in Syria, conceding it
was unable to stem the violence as concerns grew that the
country’s conflict was spilling across borders.  The council decided yesterday in  New York  to let the
mandate for the observer team expire, with operations scheduled
to “fade out” beginning Aug. 19, French Ambassador to the UN
Gerard Araud said. The mission has numbered about 300 unarmed
military observers.  The council endorsed a plan by Secretary-General Ban Ki- moon to open a small political liaison office in Damascus to
prepare for a Syria without Bashar al-Assad as president.  The decision marked the latest setback in efforts by the UN
to broker a cease-fire and open talks between Assad’s government
and rebels. A diplomatic impasse continued between the U.S. and
 France , which support the opposition and want Assad to step
down, and Russia and China, which have vetoed UN resolutions to
increase sanctions and diplomatic pressure on Syria.  Exception, Not Rule  “The UN succeeds at managing crises the strongest powers
don’t care much about; it fails at managing crises when the
major powers have interests,” said Kori Schake, a research
fellow at Stanford University’s Hoover Institution in California
and an associate professor of international  security studies  at
the U.S. Military Academy in West Point, N.Y. “Cooperation on
international crises is the exception, not the rule.”  More than a million people have been uprooted since
fighting began 17 months ago and another million have “urgent
humanitarian needs due to the widening impact of the crisis on
the economy and people’s livelihoods,” UN humanitarian aid
chief  Valerie Amos  told journalists in Damascus yesterday.  The prospect of the conflict spilling into neighboring
countries intensified yesterday as citizens of Saudi Arabia,
Bahrain,  Kuwait , the U.A.E. and Qatar were warned to leave
Lebanon amid kidnapping threats. The warnings came after the
abduction of a Lebanese man in Syria who is part of the Meqdad
clan, an extended family that belongs mostly to Lebanon’s Muslim
Shiite community.  Retaliation  The clan kidnapped 20 Syrians and a Turkish national in
Lebanon in retaliation for the abduction, the Lebanese
Broadcasting Corporation reported, citing an unnamed family
spokesman who threatened to capture Saudis and Qataris. Maher
Meqdad, a clan spokesman, said yesterday that his family had
halted kidnappings and has no links to the recent abductions,
the  Daily Star  said.  A second Turkish national was kidnapped last night in
Chweifat, outside  Beirut , the official National News Agency
said. It identified him as Orssolane Basset Abd and said he was
driving a Mercedes truck when the abduction took place. It said
Lebanese businessman Raja Zoheiry was also seized and his
kidnappers have demanded $1 million ransom to release him. The
Lebanese Cabinet set up a crisis cell yesterday to resolve the
kidnap issue, the agency said.  Turkey  and Gulf states including  Saudi Arabia  and Qatar
have backed the opposition against Assad’s government, where
fighting has taken on an increasingly sectarian character. Many
rebels are  Sunni Muslims , while the government is dominated by
members of the Alawite sect, an offshoot of Shiite Islam.  Brahimi Appointed  As of Aug. 13, 23,002 people have been killed in Syria,
including 16,142 civilians and 5,842 soldiers, the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  said in an e-mail yesterday.
Fighting today left 140 people dead after at least 238 were
killed yesterday, according to the activist Local Coordination
Committees.  The  Security Council  action reflects the limitation on
movements by observers amid the violence in Syria and the
failure of the mediation efforts of  Kofi Annan , who resigned on
Aug. 2 as joint special envoy for the UN and  Arab League . Former
Algerian Foreign Minister Lakhdar Brahimi was named as Annan’s
replacement today, the UN said in a statement.  Vitaly Churkin, Russia’s ambassador to the UN, faulted
countries that he said “did not really show a commitment to
ending hostilities,” a reference to the U.S., France and
Britain, which supported halting the UN mission.  Churkin said the nations in the Syria Action Group,
originally formed to support Annan’s mediation efforts, will
continue to press for implementation of Annan’s six-point plan.
The group includes the Russia, China, the U.S., the U.K. and
France, which are the five permanent members of the Security
Council, plus Turkey, the European Union and Arab states.  Not Fulfilled  The new UN office will have 20 to 30 people and will
include political, military, humanitarian and human-rights
advisers, as well as a de-mining unit, said Edmond Mulet, the
UN’s assistant secretary-general for peacekeeping.  The challenge now facing diplomats is how to end the
fighting quickly.  “It won’t burn itself out,” said Schake, who served as a
senior policy adviser to Republican U.S. Senator  John McCain  of
 Arizona  during his 2008 run for the presidency. “It’ll consume
the tinder in surrounding countries and set the whole region
aflame.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter S. Green in New York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
Donna Abu-Nasr in Beirut at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net ;
Louis Meixler at 
 lmeixler@bloomberg.net  