-- Turkey Central Bank Keeps Rate Corridor as Oil Prices Increase
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-08-16T11:01:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/turkey-central-bank-keeps-rate-corridor-as-oil-prices-increase.html
Turkey ’s central bank kept both ends
of its interest-rate corridor unchanged, declining to loosen
policy to stimulate growth while rising oil and commodity prices
threaten inflation targets worldwide.  The bank in Ankara held its benchmark one-week repo rate at
5.75 percent, in line with the forecasts of all nine economists
surveyed by Bloomberg. It also kept the top rate for overnight
loans at 11.5 percent.  Central Bank Governor Erdem Basci varies  interest rates 
within the corridor on a daily basis to balance above-target
inflation, a slowing economy and a currency that depreciated
more than any other major world currency last year. Predictions
for a rate cut fell in August, with one-year interest rate swaps
rising 44 basis points in the month, as the price of  Brent crude 
surged to above $116 from $104.92 at the close on July 31.  The bank’s year-end inflation estimate is 6.2 percent,
higher than its official target of 5 percent. Inflation
accelerated to 9.1 percent in July, though that was down from a
3 1/2 year high of 11.1 percent in April, according to data from
the state statistics institute in Ankara.  Yields on benchmark two-year lira debt have increased from
7.49 percent on Aug. 3, their lowest this year, as expectations
that Basci would ease receded.  Basci had said on July 6 that inflation risks were easing
as oil prices declined, and that the year-end inflation figure
may be closer to the 5 percent target than previously expected.
The price of Brent crude rose amid rising tensions over Syria
and speculation of possible Israeli military action against
 Iran .  The threat of rising  oil prices  leading to higher inflation
hinders Basci’s ability to use monetary policy to jump-start
Turkey’s nearly $800 billion economy, which has shown signs of
stalling. The economy contracted on a quarterly basis in the
first quarter for the first time since 2009, and loan growth in
July slumped to 17 percent, the lowest in two years. Turkey was
the world’s third-fastest major economy last year on the back of
a credit boom that saw loans growing by 40 percent in October.  Turkey imports more than 70 percent of its total energy and
Iran is nation’s biggest crude supplier, according to the
Ankara-based energy market regulator. Turkey’s energy bill is
likely to rise to $60 billion this year from $54 billion last
year, Finance Minister  Mehmet Simsek  said in remarks on social
media website Twitter yesterday.  Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  is targeting economic
growth of 4 percent this year, almost double the 2.3 percent
predicted by the  International Monetary Fund . Turkey could miss
the target as the crisis in  Europe , Turkey’s largest trading
partner, threatens growth, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan
said in an interview with NTV news on Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  