-- Vale to Postpone $3 Billion Potash Project in Canada
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o
-- 2012-08-16T20:55:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/vale-to-postpone-3-billion-fertilizer-project-in-canada.html
Vale SA (VALE5)  will postpone a $3 billion
fertilizer project in  Canada  and may delay other investments as
it seeks to contain spending and focuses on the expansion of its
biggest mine, Chief Executive Officer Murilo Ferreira said.  The world’s largest iron-ore producer is committed to
“cost austerity,” Ferreira told reporters during an event in
 Rio de Janeiro  today. Vale’s priority is the expansion of its
$8.04 billion Serra Sul investment in Carajas, the world’s
largest iron-ore mine, which is the company’s biggest project
ever, Ferreira said.  Ferreira, who took the helm at the Brazilian miner from
 Roger Agnelli  a year ago, is considering selling unprofitable
assets and reviewing spending plans amid rising costs and labor
shortages. The company this year sold a thermal-coal project in
Colombia for $407 million, its ferromanganese alloy businesses
in  Europe  for $160 million and also exited the kaolin mineral
business.  Vale, based in Rio, will postpone the development of its $3
billion Kronau potash project in the Canadian province of
Saskatchewan, the world’s largest potash producing region, which
the company is reassessing, Ferreira said.  “Certainly it won’t be implemented now,” Ferreira said.
“We have other” projects that may be postponed too, he said,
declining to name them “because it needs to be announced to
shareholders first.”  Price Recovery  Vale expects iron-ore prices to start rebounding as soon as
next month because of declining stockpiles in  China  and the
country’s rising demand for construction, Ferreira said. Iron-
ore prices dropped to the lowest since December 2009 today on
slower growth in China, the biggest user of the steelmaking
ingredient, and a weaker outlook for the global economy.  “We will have a good improvement in price starting in
September or October,” he said.  The price of ore with 62 percent iron content for immediate
delivery to the Chinese port of Tianjin dropped 1.1 percent to
$111.90 a ton today, the lowest since Dec. 24, according to a
 price index  compiled by The Steel Index Ltd. The price, which
rose to as much as $191.90 per ton last year, slid 19 percent
during 2012.  Chinese manufacturing growth is “anemic” and private
companies in China are reluctant to invest, while the country’s
construction industry shows “much better” signs of recovery,
Ferreira said.  Vale  rose  1.2 percent to close at 35.92 reais in  Sao Paulo .
The stock declined 9.6 percent in the past 12 months.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  