-- Venezuela Bridge Collapses on Highway From Caracas to East
-- B y   C h a r l i e   D e v e r e u x
-- 2012-08-16T15:27:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/venezuela-bridge-collapses-on-highway-from-caracas-to-east-1-.html
A bridge on the main highway
connecting  Venezuela ’s capital Caracas to the eastern part of
the oil-producing country collapsed yesterday, restricting
transit to cities including Puerto La Cruz.  Five vehicles, including a cargo truck were on the bridge
when it fell into a river due to an excess of weight at the town
of Cupira in Miranda state, 85 miles east of Caracas, the
Transport Ministry said in a  statement . The government is
working to establish temporary bridges and alternative routes,
Vice President Elias Jaua said.  “We have so-called war bridges to at least establish the
transit of light vehicles in the next three days,” Jaua said in
comments broadcast on state television, adding that a
provisional bridge that can carry heavy loads will be
established within 10 to 15 days. “We’re taking measures to
guarantee provisions of food and gasoline to the people.”  Highway 9 connects Caracas with the oil refining complexes
of Jose and Puerto La Cruz. Oil exports won’t be affected by the
fallen bridge as crude is loaded onto tankers along the coast.  The maintenance of highways has turned into a political
issue after President  Hugo Chavez  handed responsibility to the
central government from governorships in 2009, some of which are
in the hands of the opposition.  ‘Weeks, Months’  “It’s going to take days, weeks, even months to re-
establish the bridge,” Adriana D’Elia, who took over as
governor of Miranda state when Henrique Capriles Radonski stood
down to face Chavez in Oct. 7 presidential elections, said on
Globovision. “It’s true that the responsibility for the bridge
belongs to the ministry but seeing as we’re in Miranda state the
logical thing would be to coordinate.”  An alternative route to reach the eastern part of the
country via the central Guarico state is in bad condition and
will add at least three hours to the journey, Victor Lira,
director of the emergency response team in Miranda, said in an
interview on Globovision.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Charlie Devereux in Caracas at 
 cdevereux3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  