-- Verizon, Comcast Airwaves Accord Wins Antitrust Approval
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-16T18:34:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/verizon-comcast-airwaves-accord-wins-antitrust-approval-1-.html
Verizon Wireless won clearance from
the U.S.  Justice Department  to buy unused airwaves from  Comcast
Corp. (CMCSA)  and other cable providers with conditions that limit the
companies’ agreements to sell each other’s services.  The decision by antitrust regulators leaves final approval
of the $3.6 billion deal between the biggest U.S. cable and
wireless companies to regulators at the Federal Communications
Commission. That agency’s chairman today recommended approval.  “The department has provided the right remedy for
competition and consumers,” by limiting the commercial
agreements and letting Verizon and T-Mobile USA Inc. acquire
more airwaves,  Joseph Wayland , the acting head of the
department’s antitrust division, said in a statement.  The airwaves sale and cooperation pact that the companies
proposed in December, if left unaltered, would have brought
higher prices and lower quality for consumers, the department
said. The department and the FCC said today’s agreements promote
competition. Verizon in June agreed to sell airwaves to T-
Mobile, the smallest of the four nationwide wireless providers.  Leading U.S. wireless provider Verizon, based in Basking
Ridge,  New Jersey , wants to add airwaves as customers
increasingly adopt smartphones such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone to
watch video and browse the Web. Philadelphia-based Comcast, the
top U.S. cable company by revenue, and No. 2  Time Warner Cable
Inc. (TWC) , are selling airwaves they’re not using.  Higher Prices  Verizon and cable companies, Comcast, Time Warner, Bright
House Networks LLC and Cox Communications Inc. agreed to
restrict the scope of cross-marketing agreements and have those
deals end in December 2016 unless U.S. officials agree to an
extension, the Justice Department said in the statement. The
companies also agreed to limit to four years a joint technology
venture to produce new products.  Verizon and the cable companies agreed there will be no
cross-marketing of each other’s services in areas served by
Verizon’s FiOS high-speed Internet, telephone and television
service, including in regions where Verizon plans to expand the
service.  “We have addressed the Department of Justice’s concerns,”
William Petersen,  Verizon Wireless ’s general counsel, said. “We
now believe the consumer benefits of the transaction will be
promptly realized, and look forward to the conclusion of the FCC
review.”  ‘Important Goals’  FCC Chairman Julius Genachowski today proposed approving
the deal. The companies have made “a number of binding pro-
competitive commitments,” Genachowski said in an e-mailed
statement. The deal needs majority approval from the agency that
has three Democrats including the chairman and two Republicans.  Comcast Executive Vice President  David Cohen  said the
settlement with the Justice Department “preserves the most
important goals of the agreements, including preserving
Comcast’s ability to market Verizon Wireless services.”  The conditions won’t do enough to ensure competition in a
market characterized by locally exclusive cable companies and a
wireless sector dominated by four players, critics said.  “The DOJ and the FCC tried valiantly to put lipstick on
the pig, but it’s still a pig,”  Gigi Sohn , president of the
advocacy group  Public Knowledge , which opposed the deal, said in
a telephone interview. The conditions aren’t permanent and
protect some consumers while leaving others -- such as about 7
million Verizon customers in areas without FiOS -- with only a
regional cable monopoly as a source for fast  Internet service ,
Sohn said.  Higher Prices?  Free Press, a Washington-based policy group that also
opposed the transaction, said the concessions don’t solve
structural problems in the market for high-speed Internet
service.  “There is still no meaningful competition -- and that will
mean higher prices for everyone,”  Joel Kelsey , a policy adviser
with the group, said in an e-mailed statement.  “This deal will result in Verizon abandoning further
investment in FiOS, its high speed network,”  Candice Johnson , a
spokeswoman for the  Communications Workers of America , said in
an e-mailed statement. As a result, there will be no high-speed
Internet competition in Baltimore, Boston, Buffalo, cities
across upstate New York and most of Pennsylvania, Maryland,
Massachusetts, Delaware and Virginia, she said.  Verizon earlier told the FCC it had decided in 2009 it
wouldn’t increase its planned deployment of FiOS, according to a
company  filing  at the agency.  Marketplace Competitor  Final approval would give Verizon success where No. 2
mobile carrier  AT&T Inc. (T)  failed last year when regulators barred
it from buying T-Mobile USA Inc. because the transaction would
have eliminated the smaller carrier and reduced competition.  “Verizon’s deal has some key differences from AT&T-T-
Mobile, but it’s not a small feat to get it done in an
administration that’s been focused on limiting the power of AT&T
and Verizon,”  Paul Gallant , a Washington-based analyst with
Guggenheim Securities, said.  Buying cable company airwaves won’t remove a competitor
from the marketplace, which would have occurred if T-Mobile had
been bought by AT&T, Gallant said in a telephone interview.  Verizon’s proposed sale of spectrum to T-Mobile, contingent
on winning approval of the cable-airwaves deal, turned the unit
of Bonn-based  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE)  from an opponent of the
transactions into a supporter.  Selling Airwaves  Closely held Bright House Networks contributed some of the
airwaves being sold to Verizon by the cable group including
Comcast and Time Warner known as SpectrumCo. Separately, Cox
Communications agreed to sell airwaves to Verizon for $315
million.  Comcast owns 64 percent of SpectrumCo and is to receive
about $2.3 billion from the sale, the companies said in a
statement in December. Time Warner Cable owns 31 percent of
SpectrumCo and will receive about $1.1 billion. Bright House
owns 5 percent of SpectrumCo and will receive about $189
million, the companies said.  Verizon Wireless is 55 percent owned by New York-based
Verizon and 45 percent-owned by  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , based in
Newbury, England.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net  or
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at 
 adunn8@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net . 