-- Verizon-Cable Agreement Said to Gain Antitrust Approval
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n ,   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-08-16T04:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/verizon-cable-agreement-said-to-win-antitrust-approval-tomorrow.html
The U.S.  Justice Department  is set
to give approval to Verizon Wireless’s purchase of airwaves from
 Comcast Corp. (CMCSA)  and other cable companies today in exchange for
limits on agreements to sell each other’s services, four people
with knowledge of the situation said.  Verizon, the largest U.S. wireless carrier, has been
seeking clearance from the Justice Department and the Federal
Communications Commission for the $3.6 billion deal, which will
supply the phone company with spectrum that the cable providers
aren’t using. The people asked not to be named because the
decision hasn’t been made public.  Verizon and Comcast have agreed in principle with U.S.
antitrust officials to limit joint ventures as a condition for
the deal’s approval, people familiar with the negotiations said
yesterday.  In a filing yesterday, Verizon told the FCC it will use the
airwaves to serve 70 percent of the population covered by the
frequencies within seven years. It also vowed to reach
agreements to let other wireless companies use its airwaves in
areas where it’s acquiring frequencies from the cable companies.  Verizon, based in Basking Ridge, New Jersey, is adding
airwaves to relieve a traffic crunch on its network caused by
customers using smartphones such as Apple Inc.’s iPhone to watch
video and browse the Web.  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC) , second to
Comcast in U.S. cable customers, also is selling airwaves in the
deal.  More Cooperation?  Charles Miller , a spokesman for the Justice Department,
didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment after
business hours.  Brenda Raney , a spokeswoman for Verizon,
declined to comment, as did Charlie Douglas at Philadelphia-
based Comcast, and Justin Venech at Time Warner Cable. Neil Grace, a spokesman for the FCC, also declined to comment.  Critics have said the agreement will replace competition
with cooperation, bringing higher prices and less choice for
consumers. The FCC set an Aug. 21 target date for finishing its
review.  Verizon Wireless is co-owned by  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) 
and Vodafone Group Plc.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net ;
Sara Forden in Washington at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Turner at   nturner7@bloomberg.net ;
Bernard Kohn at   bkohn2@bloomberg.net  