-- Vietnam Will Provide Funds to Banks to Spur Credit Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-16T10:32:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/vietnam-will-provide-funds-to-banks-to-spur-credit-growth.html
Vietnam ’s monetary authority will
inject funds into commercial banks to spur lending after credit
growth missed targets amid a slowing economy.  “Credit growth has been very slow so far this year,”
Nguyen Thi Hong, head of the central bank’s monetary policy
department, said in an interview in Hanoi today. The regulator
will “provide funds to banks that have the potential to make
good loans but face difficulties with funding,” she said.
Lenders can access funds through daily open-market-operations or
loans using bonds and bills as collateral, she said.  Vietnam’s bank lending has stagnated as businesses contend
with growing inventories and decreased demand. The country’s
 inflation , once the fastest in  Southeast Asia , has since eased,
giving the central bank room to reverse monetary tightening and
cut interest rates five times this year to shield the  economy 
from  Europe ’s debt crisis and  China ’s growth slowdown.  Credit growth was 1.07 percent as of Aug. 8, according to a
release from the central bank today. That compares to the
regulator’s target of 14 percent to 15 percent in 2012.  Deputy Prime Minister Vu Van Ninh has said the country may
miss its 6 percent growth target after the economy grew 4.66
percent in the three months to June from a year earlier.
Consumer prices may rise in August from July because of higher
power and fuel costs, the Ministry of Finance said yesterday.  The central bank will “closely watch” the pace of
inflation, the dong’s exchange rates and fuel prices to
“adjust” borrowing costs to balance between growth and
inflation targets, Hong said today.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Nguyen Dieu Tu Uyen in Hanoi at 
 uyen1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  