-- Vivendi to Tap Rothschild, Deutsche Bank for GVT Plann
-- B y   S e r e n a   S a i t t o   a n d   C r i s t i a n e   L u c c h e s i
-- 2012-08-16T19:17:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/vivendi-said-to-hire-rothschild-deutsche-bank-for-gvt-options.html
Vivendi SA (VIV) , Europe’s biggest media
and telecommunications company, hired Rothschild and Deutsche
Bank AG to study strategic options for its Brazilian phone
operator GVT, said two people familiar with the matter.  Vivendi may sell the company, or a stake, or propose an
initial public offering, said one of the people, who asked not
to be named because the plans are private.  GVT, which Vivendi acquired for $4.18 billion in 2009 after
trumping a bid from Spain’s  Telefonica SA (TEF) , has helped drive
revenue growth at the Paris-based media company and may be worth
5.2 billion euros ($6.4 billion), according to estimates in
April by Morgan Stanley.  Vivendi is re-evaluating its businesses as Chairman Jean- Rene Fourtou looks to overhaul the company’s structure and
restore investor confidence after the  stock  fell to a nine-year
low in April. Moody’s Investors Service and Fitch Ratings have
said that Vivendi’s debt rating may be cut unless it reduces
liabilities.  Jean-Louis Erneux, a Vivendi spokesman, said the company
“never comments on rumors on its different businesses.”
Representatives for Deutsche Bank and Rothschild declined to
comment.  Fourtou said last month in an interview that he was seeking
a buyer for Vivendi’s stake in video-game maker  Activision
Blizzard Inc. (ATVI)  Vivendi may sell the stake to Activision after
finding little interest from potential buyers, according to
another person familiar with the matter.  Fourtou has taken over overseeing strategy since Chief
Executive Officer  Jean-Bernard Levy  was ousted in June. The
Vivendi Chairman is interested in exploring a de-emphasis of the
group’s telecommunications businesses, which he believes require
too much investment to be successful and lack scale, people
familiar with the matter said in June.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Serena Saitto in  New York  at 
 ssaitto@bloomberg.net ;
Cristiane Lucchesi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 clucchesi5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  