-- ACLU to Appeal in Pennsylvania as Parties Clash on Vote Laws
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-17T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/voter-rules-fights-unfold-in-presidential-battleground-states.html
The  American Civil Liberties Union 
filed a notice that it will appeal  Pennsylvania  state court’s
upholding of a voter photo-ID requirement.  A motion for an expedited schedule was also filed
yesterday, the ACLU said. The plaintiffs who sued the state
asked that oral arguments be held in the period Sept. 10 to 14,
according to documents they provided. The filings couldn’t
immediately be confirmed with the court.  The ACLU will seek the reversal of the Aug. 15 ruling that
it failed to prove Pennsylvania voters would be disenfranchised
by a demand for photo identification at the polls. Judge Robert E. Simpson in state court in Harrisburg ruled as the major
parties clashed in two crucial states.  In neighboring  Ohio , Secretary of State Jon Husted set
uniform hours for in-person absentee voting in all 88 counties
for the Nov. 6 presidential election after the Ohio Democratic
Party said times were being expanded mostly in Republican-
leaning counties.  Pennsylvania has 20 Electoral College votes, and Ohio has
18. In Ohio, which Obama won with 51.5 percent of the vote in
2008, no Republican has ever won the presidency while losing the
state.  Republican-controlled legislatures in several states passed
laws they said were necessary to prevent fraud and help
elections run smoothly. Democrats said the steps are aimed at
helping Republicans by limiting votes for President  Barack Obama   Voter cases are also active in  Texas ,  South Carolina ,
Florida and  Wisconsin .  Ohio Hearing  “It’s a presidential election year, and so people tend to
care more about these kinds of disputes,” said Michael Dimino,
a law professor at Widener University in Harrisburg,
Pennsylvania.  Absentee voting in Ohio starts 35 days before the election.
Husted directed county election offices to remain open from 8
a.m. to 5 p.m. for the first three weeks and until 7 p.m. on
weekdays in the final two.  “All Ohioans will vote by the same standards,” Husted, a
first-term Republican, said at a news briefing in Columbus. All
registered voters in Ohio also are being sent applications for
absentee ballots they can return by mail, Husted said.  Ohio Democratic Party Chairman  Chris Redfern  complained
that Republican election-board members were allowing extended
early-voting in Republican-leaning counties but not in
Democratic ones to help presumptive Republican nominee  Mitt Romney .  Critical Statement  Redfern issued a statement criticizing Husted for
eliminating the possibility of early, in-person absentee voting
on weekends. He said Republicans “have done everything they can
to limit voting access.”  Husted said he spoke with county elections officials and
concluded that expanded weeknight hours were sufficient,
considering financial limits in many counties. The playing field
is now level, said Robert T. Bennett, the Ohio Republican Party
chairman, in a telephone interview.  Pennsylvania is one of nine states requiring photo IDs to
vote. Its law became a test case in the voter-eligibility debate
after a state analysis found as many as 9 percent of its
electorate might be unable to cast a vote for president.  State officials including Governor Tom Corbett, a
Republican, said the law enacted in March will deter in-person
voter fraud, protect the integrity of elections and ensure
public confidence in the election process.  Minorities, Poor  The ACLU sued in May, saying the law unfairly burdens
minorities, the elderly and the poor and might suppress voting.
The Harrisburg judge disagreed on Aug. 15 in a 70-page opinion
that set the stage for an appeal to the state’s highest court.  “The photo ID requirement of Act 18 is a reasonable, non-
discriminatory, non-severe burden when viewed in the broader
context of the widespread use of photo ID in daily life,”
Simpson wrote. “The commonwealth’s asserted interest in
protecting public confidence in elections is a relevant and
legitimate state interest sufficiently weighty to justify the
burden.”  Obama, a Democrat, won Pennsylvania with 55 percent of the
vote in 2008. He won by 620,478 votes there, fewer than the
number who, according to plaintiffs in the suit, might be kept
from the polls on Nov. 6.  Pennsylvania has 20 Electoral College votes, and Ohio has
18. In Ohio, which Obama won with 51.5 percent of the vote in
2008, no Republican has ever  won the presidency  while losing the
state.  Constitutional Argument  The Obama campaign has sued over another facet of Ohio’s
early-voting law, asserting that it violates the U.S.
Constitution’s guarantee of equal protection by giving members
of the armed services and certain overseas voters three more
early voting days than other Ohioans. Arguments on a court order
that would block that were heard Aug. 15 in Columbus.  Ohio previously allowed everyone to vote by in-person
absentee ballot until the day before the election. Laws signed
by Republican Governor  John Kasich  created the division.  The state has a rational basis for treating military and
overseas voters differently, and cutting off early voting the
Friday before the election for nonmilitary citizens allows local
election boards to synchronize those votes with those at 9,800
polling places to prevent double-voting, Husted said.  Obama and Democrats say no distinction between otherwise-
eligible voters justifies giving more time to one group than
another, and that 30 percent of the ballots cast in Ohio in 2008
were by early absentee ballots.  The Pennsylvania case is Applewhite v. Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, 330-md-2012, Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania
(Harrisburg). The Ohio case is Obama for America v. Husted, 12-
cv-00636, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio
(Columbus).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia
at   spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Dunn  at   adunn8@bloomberg.net . 