-- Wal-Mart Drops After Profit Forecast Lags Some Estimates
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h
-- 2012-08-16T20:21:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/wal-mart-drops-after-second-quarter-sales-trail-estimates.html
Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT) , the world’s
largest retailer, dropped in  New York  trading after its forecast
for profit this year trailed some analysts’ estimates amid
slowing sales growth in the U.S.  Wal-Mart fell 3.1 percent to $72.15 at the close, the
biggest decline since April 23. The  shares  advanced 21 percent
this year.  Profit this year may be $4.83 to $4.93 a share, up from a
previous forecast of $4.72 to $4.92, the Bentonville, Arkansas-
based company said today in a statement. The average  estimate  of
28 analysts was for profit of $4.93. Third-quarter profit per
share will be $1.04 to $1.09. Analysts project $1.05.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Duke  has been cutting prices
to lure shoppers seeking bargains amid the weakening U.S.
economy. Second-quarter sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at
least a year gained 2.2 percent, slower than the 2.6 percent
gain in the first quarter.  “The market wanted all-around perfection,”  Brian Sozzi ,
chief equity analyst with New York-based research firm NBG
Productions Inc., said in a telephone interview. “Same-store
sales were up, but not at the top end of guidance. Investors
also wanted more upside on earnings guidance and didn’t get
it.”  Second-quarter  net income  rose 5.7 percent to $4.02
billion, or $1.18 a share, from $3.8 billion, or $1.09, a year
earlier, Wal-Mart said. The average of 26 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was $1.17 a share.  Sales Gain  Total revenue rose 4.5 percent to $114.3 billion in the
quarter. That trailed analysts’ $115.8 billion average
estimates. Currency exchange rate fluctuations reduced sales by
about $2.2 billion.  Duke said consumers in the U.S. and in Wal-Mart’s key
international markets are still struggling and will keep
shopping for the lowest prices.  “Given continuing economic pressures, we believe that our
price leadership and value are growing in importance to
customers across income levels,” Duke said in the statement.
“Walmart’s low prices drive greater customer loyalty.”  Consumers will continue to struggle, and Wal-Mart’s focus
on low prices should continue to bring in shoppers, Natalie Berg, an analyst with London research firm  Planet Retail , said
in a telephone interview.  Well Placed  “Wal-Mart is well placed to capitalize on cash-strapped
consumers,” Berg said.  To keep investors interested in the stock, Wal-Mart will
have to report stronger growth and earnings than second quarter
showed, said  Colin McGranahan , an analyst with Sanford C.
Bernstein & Co. Inc., a New York-based research firm.
McGranahan, who rates the shares “market perform,” or hold,
said the stock may have peaked recently and today’s fall shows
that the best is over.  “Results were good but not good enough,” McGranahan said
in telephone interview. “Traffic was negative in every
international region. From here, the stock isn’t going up, it’s
going down.”  The company’s international  operations  boosted sales 6.4
percent to $32 billion, and Sam’s Club sales climbed 3.8 percent
to $14.2 billion.  Wal-Mart is pulling back its expansion plans overseas as a
result of an investigation into bribery allegations at its
Mexican business and to improve operations in  Brazil  and  China ,
Chief Financial Officer  Charles Holley  said on a conference call
with reporters.  Delayed Openings  Wal-Mart has delayed some store openings in  Mexico  by 90
days because the company is strengthening the approval process,
Holley said.  In China and Brazil, Wal-Mart is trying to improve
operations and change its stores to sell products at the
retailer’s traditional everday low pricing strategy instead of
promoting temporary sales and discounts.  “We got ahead of ourselves in Brazil and China,” Holley
said. “We pulled back growth to allow the teams to focus on
Everyday Low Price.”  Wal-Mart didn’t provide an update on the investigations by
the  U.S. Department of Justice  and the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission into possible violations of the Foreign
Corrupt Practices Act. The government agencies are investigating
allegations that Wal-Mart systematically bribed Mexican
officials so it could more quickly open stores in the country.  Mexico Probes  Federal and local government agencies in Mexico also have
started investigations of these matters, and the company has
said it is cooperating with those probes as well.  Several of Wal-Mart’s  shareholders  have filed lawsuits
against the company, current and former directors and officers
and past and present officers of its Walmex unit. Wal-Mart’s
board audit committee is conducting a probe as well.  Maryland Representative  Elijah Cummings  and California
Representative  Henry Waxman , both Democrats, said in an Aug. 14
letter to Duke that Wal-Mart de Mexico SAB,  Latin America ’s
largest retailer, may have engaged in  money laundering  and  tax
evasion  in Mexico. The letter said the investigation is looking
at five nations in addition to Mexico.  Wal-Mart said in a statement after its earnings
announcement that it isn’t aware of any pending investigation
into such matters by Mexican authorities and that the matter has
been referred to Wal-Mart’s investigative counsel for review.  Wal-Mart has had two briefings with Congressional staff
members and is “exploring ways to make additional information
available,” Brooke Buchanan, a company spokeswoman, said in the
e-mailed statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  