-- Ward Ferry Asia Hedge Fund Returns 16% This Year, Beating Peers
-- B y   B e i   H u
-- 2012-08-16T02:02:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/ward-ferry-asia-hedge-fund-returns-16-this-year-beating-peers.html
WF  Asia  Fund Ltd., a $209 million
Hong Kong hedge fund, beat peers this year by betting on stocks
that benefit from rising consumer demand and wagering against
companies with flawed business models or fraudulent management.  The fund, which started trading in February 2001, returned
almost 16 percent in the first seven months, according to the
July newsletter that Hong Kong-based Ward Ferry Management Ltd.
sent to investors and was obtained by Bloomberg News. The
Eurekahedge Asia Long-Short Equities Hedge Fund Index gained 0.9
percent in the period, according to preliminary data from the
Singapore-based data provider.  WF Asia has increased  wagers  on consumer staples and other
defensive stocks as well as bets against technology companies
and industrial machinery producers that are more affected by the
economic slowdown across the world, according to the letter.
Global economic worries and the  European debt crisis  have
contributed to the more than 7 percent drop by the  MSCI Asia-
Pacific Index (MXAP)  from its 2012 peak.  The fund invests in Asian companies traded on  stock
exchanges  or over-the-counter markets as well as government and
corporate bonds. Veronica Cheung, who handles  investor relations 
at Ward Ferry, said its senior staff declined to comment, citing
company policy not to comment on media reports.  Among the stocks that contributed to the fund’s performance
this year was PT Tower Bersama Infrastructure, a Jakarta-based
company that builds and leases telecommunication towers to
service providers, according to Ward Ferry’s June newsletter.  PT Tower, CP All  Ward Ferry  estimates  that PT Tower can double its profits
in the next three years partly because  Indonesia  has half of the
number of towers per capita as the U.S. and has been increasing
them at 26 percent a year since 2006, according to the letter.
The stock has  surged  18 percent since June 1 through yesterday.  Among its five largest holdings in July was  CP All Pcl (CPALL) , the
world’s third-biggest operator of 7-Eleven convenience stores,
according to the newsletter. It also bought  President Chain
Store Corp. (2912) , which holds the 7-Eleven franchise in Taiwan and
owns stakes in Starbucks Taiwan and  Shanghai , 7-Eleven
Philippines and Shanghai, the newsletter showed.  “We believe convenience retail to be one of the most
attractive structural growth sectors in Asia over the next five
to 10 years,” according to the newsletter. “Sector growth is
driven by rising affluence and market share gains against single
owner-operated stores.”  Short Bets  The fund also made money from selling borrowed securities
in companies with flawed business models or whose management
teams are believed to have engaged in fraud, according to the
July newsletter.  It shorted regional computer makers as tablet adoption in
 emerging markets  will further weaken their sales and profit
margins, according to the June newsletter. Companies it shorted
also included a food retailer in Singapore, a distributor in
Hong Kong and  China , an Indian real estate management and
development company, according to the newsletter, which didn’t
identify any of the companies by name.  Ward Ferry was founded by Ward, former chief investment
officer at Lloyd George Management, and Peter Ferry, Lloyd
George’s chief marketing officer, in 2000, according to its
website. It was ranked by New York-based trade journal
Institutional Investor Asia’s fourth-largest hedge fund in 2006.  The company’s assets fell to about $630 million by March
this year, from almost $2 billion four years earlier, according
to the annual rankings published by Institutional Investor.  WF Asia Fund’s assets  peaked  at $1.28 billion in October
2007 before  net asset value  declined 32.5 percent in 2008 in its
worst year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Eurekahedge
Asia Long Short Equities Hedge Fund Index was down 22 percent in
2008, in its worst year on record.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bei Hu in  Hong Kong  at 
 bhu5@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  