-- Myanmar Lawmakers Know Little About New Appointed Vice President
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e
-- 2012-08-16T04:19:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/myanmar-lawmakers-know-little-about-new-appointed-vice-president.html
Myanmar lawmakers struggled to find
out details about a new vice president appointed yesterday,
underscoring the military’s lingering influence as the country
shifts toward greater political openness.  Naval chief Nyan Tun was nominated by army-appointed
lawmakers for the post, replacing one of two vice presidents who
resigned last month. The military is granted 25 percent of
parliamentary seats by the  constitution  and has the right to
nominate one of the top three leaders in the country.  “We don’t know about him and have never seen him before,”
Myo Aung, a lawmaker with the main opposition party headed by
former political prisoner  Aung San Suu Kyi , said by phone.
“Since we didn’t see his background and his biodata, right now
we can’t evaluate how supportive he will be with democratic
reforms.”  Myanmar’s shift toward democracy since a 2010 election
ended five decades of direct military rule prompted the U.S. and
European Union to ease sanctions, encouraging companies
including  Coca-Cola Co. (KO) , Unilever and General Electric Co. to
invest in the country of 64 million people that borders China
and  India .  President Thein Sein is pushing to create jobs as his
ruling Union Solidarity and Development Party looks ahead to
elections in 2015. Suu Kyi’s National League for Democracy,
which boycotted the 2010 nationwide vote, won 43 of 45 by-
election seats up for grabs in April, signaling a challenge to
the country’s power structure.  Under the constitution, the president is chosen from three
vice-presidents in the event of a vacancy. The process to
confirm Nyan Tun took about 20 minutes, said Tin Nwe Oo, a
lawmaker with the National Democratic Force, a smaller
opposition party.  “It’s difficult to understand why we as parliamentary
members didn’t get his biography before his approval,” she
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  