-- Hypo Alpe Says Austrian Regulator Found 48 Areas for Improvement
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-08-16T10:47:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/hypo-alpe-says-austrian-regulator-found-48-areas-for-improvement.html
Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank International
AG, the nationalized Austrian lender loaded with bad debt, said
the nation’s central bank found 48 areas where risk management
needs improvement.  The Austrian central bank, which was probing the lender’s
tools for measuring default risks and collateral valuations,
presented a preliminary report to the bank on Aug. 8, Hypo Alpe
said in its  half-year report  released today. The exam is meant
to update the Klagenfurt, Austria-based lender’s capital needs,
which were last year determined by the central bank to stand at
1.5 billion euros ($1.8 billion).  “The report includes 48 concrete findings where a need for
change and improvement is seen,” Hypo Alpe said in the report.
“The majority of those critical remarks are compatible” with
the company’s own plan to improve, it said, adding that it will
reply by Sept. 16.  Hypo Alpe, which is the third-biggest lender in the former
Yugoslav nations, is one of three banks that  Austria  has had to
rescue since 2008 after shareholders walked away. The risk of
further state capital injections into banks was one of the main
reasons the Alpine republic lost its triple-A rating at  Standard
& Poor’s  and was put on negative outlook at Moody’s Investors
Service earlier this year.  Hypo Alpe said this week that it has cut risky assets and
improved controls to reduce capital needs, while “economic
tension” in its “core countries” will boost risk weightings
and may drive the capital needs higher.  Capital Injections  Hypo Alpe’s common equity Tier 1 ratio, a measure of
financial strength, rose to 2.6 percent in the first half from 2
percent at the end of last year as it cut assets and bought back
hybrid capital, it said in a presentation for investors on its
website today. Its Tier 1 ratio, a broader measure, fell to 6.1
percent from 6.2 percent.  Hypo Alpe would have to ask for more  government aid  if the
central bank sticks to the capital requirement. It has received
1.35 billion euros in state capital and a 200 million-euro
guarantee already, of which the federal government wrote off 700
million euros in last year’s budget. About 16.7 billion euros of
its funding is also guaranteed by Austria and the province of
Carinthia, Hypo Alpe’s former owner.  While the lender swung to a loss in the first six months of
this year, the units it put up for sale were all profitable,
according to the presentation. The biggest, in the former
 Yugoslavia , had after-tax profit of 26 million euros, down from
32.3 million euros a year earlier. Profit almost doubled in
 Croatia  and narrowed in  Serbia , while the bank had losses in
Slovenia and Montenegro. Hypo Alpe’s larger rivals in the former
Yugoslavia are  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and Nova Ljubljanska Bank dd.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  