-- Myriad Wins U.S. Appeal Over Ability to Patent Isolated DNA
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-08-16T22:47:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/myriad-wins-u-s-appeal-over-ability-to-patent-isolated-dna-2-.html
Myriad Genetics Inc. (MYGN) , owner of
patents related to genes linked to hereditary cancer risks, won
an appeals court  ruling  that it can receive patents on isolated
DNA, a case that has split the medical community.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit today did
say that some specific patent claims related to comparing the
DNA sequences are abstract ideas not worthy of a patent,
although a claim related to a method of screening potential
cancer therapeutics is eligible for legal protection. The same
three-judge panel made a similar decision a year ago, before it
was ordered by the Supreme Court to reconsider its findings.  The dispute centered on whether isolated DNA -- genetic
coding that has been removed from the body and separated from
other material -- is a product of nature and thus ineligible for
patent protection.  “The isolated DNA molecules before us are not found in
nature,” Circuit Judge Alan Lourie wrote. “They are obtained
in the laboratory and are man-made, the product of human
ingenuity. While they are prepared from products of nature, so
is every other composition of matter.”  Myriad owns patents for a test that can determine the
hereditary risk of breast and ovarian cancers, and groups
including the Association for Molecular Pathology and the
American College of Medical Genetics argued Myriad was trying to
get legal ownership of parts of the human body.  Allowing Research  Myriad, which said it was pleased with the ruling, said
gene-related patents haven’t hindered research.  “Myriad has never denied, opposed or impeded any research
studies on these, or any other, genes,” the company said in a
statement. It said almost 1 million patients have received the
test.  The Federal Circuit was ordered to reconsider its July 2011
decision after the U.S.  Supreme Court  issued a ruling in a
separate case that limited the ability to get patents on certain
types of medical diagnostic tests. Lourie said that ruling
didn’t apply to the issue of isolated DNA and didn’t change
policies created three decades ago by the high court.  “The biotech industry should take some comfort from this
decision because the basic underpinning of the patent protection
for the biotech industry for the past 30 years remains in
place,” said Greg Castanias of  Jones Day  in  Washington , who
represented Myriad in the case.  Circuit Judge William Bryson said that some of the DNA
claims that involve gene fragments shouldn’t be entitled to
patent protection.  ‘Broad Consequences’  “The court’s decision, if sustained, will likely have
broad consequences, such as preempting methods for whole-genome
sequencing, even though Myriad’s contribution to the field is
not remotely consonant with such effects,” Bryson wrote.  The Supreme Court has issued two rulings since June 2010
seeking to determine what ideas can be eligible for patents. In
the most recent case over diagnostic tests, the Supreme Court
rejected the patents even after the Federal Circuit upheld them
twice, said  Daniel Ravicher , president of the Public Patent
Foundation at Cardozo Law School in  New York , who represented
researchers suing Myriad.  “We’re saddened that two judges on the Court of Appeals
still believe human genes are patentable,” Ravicher said. “We
remain heartened to see that one of the Court of Appeals judges
still strenuously dissents from that opinion.”  The Federal Circuit, which specializes in  patent law , has
been directed by the high court to consider another case
involving patent eligibility. That case involves Internet
business methods.  Natural Laws  In the Supreme Court’s March 20 decision, Justice  Stephen Breyer  wrote for a unanimous court in warning against “tying up
the use of the underlying natural laws.”  The Federal Circuit said courts shouldn’t confuse the
general issue of whether an idea is eligible for a patent with
separate questions about whether a specific invention using that
idea should get a patent.  The Myriad dispute has split the medical community. Some
scientists argue they have been stymied in their quest for new
medicines and treatments because they fear coming up against
demands for royalties or letters demanding they stop using
patented inventions.  The U.S. Patent and  Trademark Office  has issued more than
2,600 patents on genes. Many of those patents are nearing the
end of their life, said Bill Gaede of  McDermott Will & Emery  in
 Menlo Park ,  California . The aspect of the ruling today
concerning the diagnostic claims adds to the confusion of what
types of tests can be patented, he said.  Attracting Investments  Companies such as  Genomic Health Inc. (GHDX)  and  Alnylam
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (ALNY)  argue they can’t attract investment dollars
if they can’t protect their research from competitors.  “If it starts getting applied that these DNA test kits are
viewed as difficult to patent, it’s a dangerous thing,” said
Pete Corless, a lawyer with Edwards Wildman Palmer LLP in  Boston 
who has a client with a test for ovarian cancer. “People will
be more reluctant to make the investment in developing those
products.”  The genetics groups, backed by the  American Civil Liberties
Union  and the Public Patent Foundation, sued to challenge
aspects of seven Myriad patents, and won at the trial court.  Myriad reported $496 million in revenue last year and said
Aug. 14 that its BRACAnalysis test accounted for 82 percent of
total revenue in the fourth quarter.  Gene databases and technology to analyze them can be the
key to new medical discoveries and more efficient ways of
providing treatment. Annual U.S. spending on medical DNA testing
will rise to $25 billion in the next decade from $5 billion in
2010, according to  UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the biggest for-
profit health insurer in the nation.  The case is Association for Molecular Pathology v. Myriad,
10-1406, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit
(Washington). The lower court case is Association for Molecular
Pathology v. U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, 09cv4515, U.S.
District Court for the District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  