-- Zurich Insurance Profit Drops After Year-Earlier Asset Sale
-- B y   C a r o l y n   B a n d e l
-- 2012-08-16T07:18:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-16/zurich-insurance-profit-drops-after-year-earlier-asset-sale-1-.html
Zurich Insurance Group AG (ZURN) , the
biggest Swiss insurer, said second-quarter profit declined 19
percent after a gain in the year-earlier period from selling a
stake in  New China Life Insurance Co. (1336)   Net income fell to $1.08 billion from $1.33 billion a year
earlier, the Zurich-based company said in a statement today.
That compares to the $994 million average estimate of 16
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Zurich Insurance booked a gain of $441 million in the year-
earlier quarter from the sale of 5 percent of New China Life.
The company last year acquired 51 percent of  Banco Santander
SA (SAN) ’s Latin America insurance unit to build its  emerging markets 
business as low  interest rates  depress investment income.  “We have a lower investment income which is a factor for
the lower income in the second quarter,” Chief Financial
Officer Pierre Wauthier said on a conference call. “This is
reflecting the low interest rate environment.”  Zurich Insurance declined 0.5 percent to 225 francs as of
9:11 a.m. in Swiss trading, bringing this year’s gain to 6
percent and giving the company a market value of 33.2 billion
francs ($34 billion).  Net investment income dropped 7.8 percent to $1.73 billion
in the quarter as rates crimped returns from the insurer’s bond
holdings.  Weather-related losses in the second quarter were about
$100 million, after hail storms in Europe and an earthquake in
 Italy , the company said.  Natural Disasters  Natural disasters caused an estimated $5.48 billion of
insured losses for insurers and re-insurers in the second
quarter, down from more than $27 billion a year earlier,
according to estimates from Aon Benfield, the world’s biggest
reinsurance broker.  Allianz SE (ALV)  and  Axa SA (CS) , Europe’s biggest insurers, earlier
this month reported profit that beat analysts’ estimates helped
by higher earnings at their life and health businesses.  “The result is OK, but nothing more,” said Stefan Schuermann, a Zurich-based analyst with Vontobel Holding AG.
“There is little drive in the results today after Allianz’s
upbeat earnings presentation last week.”  Zurich Insurance reported a business operating profit
after-tax return on equity of 10.9 percent in the quarter
compared with its long-term target of 16 percent.  That target may be difficult to achieve in the current low-
interest rate environment and a target of 14 percent would be
“more realistic” in the short term, Chief Executive Officer
Martin Senn said today.  Zurich Insurance yesterday appointed Michael Kerner as CEO
of its general insurance unit, replacing  Mario Greco , who joined
Assicurazioni General SpA as CEO on Aug. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carolyn Bandel in Zurich at 
 cbandel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at   fconnelly@bloomberg.net  