-- 
African Development Bank to Provide Financing Soon to Tunisia, Ivory Coast

-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-16T19:19:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/african-development-bank-to-provide-financing-soon-to-tunisia-ivory-coast.html
The  African Development Bank  will
disburse budget aid to  Tunisia  next month and is ready to
quickly support  Ivory Coast  to help the countries deal with
immediate financing needs in the wake of political turmoil,
President Donald Kaberuka said.  The bank plans to make between $400 million and $500
million available to Tunisia and will increase aid to about $1
billion later this year, Kaberuka said in an interview in
Washington today. The institution is considering $150 million in
immediate support for Ivory Coast, he said.  In Ivory Coast, Former President Laurent Gbagbo was
captured and his security forces surrendered this week, ending
weeks of post-election conflict. Tunisia has been experiencing
political transition after President Zine el Abidine Ben Ali was
ousted in January, triggering a wave of anti-government protests
in the Arab world and North Africa over economic hardship and
corruption.  Funds “will go to the budget of Tunisia to help with
unemployment, youth opportunities, regional inequalities and
voice and accountability of the institutions,” Kaberuka said.
For Ivory Coast, “now that they are back, we’re prepared to go
in quickly to provide support in all forms.”  The bank had stopped disbursements to Ivory Coast as Gbagbo
defied world opinion and held onto power after his defeat in a
Nov. 28 election to  Alassane Ouattara .  Move Headquarters  The ADB’s governors, meeting in Washington next week, will
discuss whether to move their headquarters back to Ivory Coast
from Tunis, said Kaberuka.  “Their wish to return is very strong but you can return
only if the basic conditions are there,” he said.  The bank is also speaking to authorities in  Egypt , where
President  Hosni Mubarak  abandoned power after three decades on
Feb. 11, to determine its needs and will probably help with its
budget as well, Kaberuka said.  The bank is now forecasting growth of about 3.5 percent in
North Africa this year, which will drag the continent’s
expansion to below 5 percent, chief economist Mthuli Ncube said
in an interview in  Washington  yesterday. Ivory Coast’s economy
is seen contracting 7.3 percent, he said.  Kaberuka said he is concerned that aid to Southern Sudan,
which will become independent in July, may not be coordinated
well.  An existing multidonor fund has to coordinate different
conditions, reporting systems and auditing requirements,
Kaberuka said.  “It would be easier if there was one platform,” he said
after attending a meeting on the topic during the  World Bank  and
 International Monetary Fund ’s meetings.  He also said contributors may have to accept the risk that
resources may not be well used in the beginning because the
country’s institutions will be young.  Almost 99 percent of Southern Sudanese voters chose to
secede from  Sudan  and form an independent country in a January
referendum.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  