-- 
Asian Currencies Fall on Global Recovery Concerns, Rising Commodity Prices

-- B y   F i o n   L i
-- 
2011-04-16T04:52:16Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/asian-currencies-fall-on-global-recovery-concerns-rising-commodity-prices.html
India ’s rupee and  South Korea ’s won
led declines in Asian currencies this week on concern higher
commodity prices will slow the global economic recovery, hurting
exports and curbing demand for emerging-market assets. The
 Singapore  dollar climbed to a record after a revaluation.  Overseas investors sold $591 million more South Korean and
Taiwanese shares that they bought in the week, exchange data
show. The  International Monetary Fund  cut its 2011 growth
forecasts for the U.S. and Japan on April 11, citing “key
downside risks” tied to a 20 percent gain in crude prices this
year. The yuan hit a 17-year high yesterday as China reported
bigger-than-expected increases in gross domestic product and
consumer prices.  “People are taking risk off the table as there are still
uncertainties in  Japan  and because of strong commodity prices,”
said Roland Randall, a senior currency strategist at TD
Securities Inc. in Singapore.  The rupee dropped 0.6 percent this week to 44.333 per
dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The won
weakened 0.6 percent to 1,089.80 and the Philippine peso slid
0.6 percent to 43.24. The Singapore dollar rose 1 percent to
S$1.2452 after the city-state’s central bank said on April 14
that it would allow faster gains to combat inflation.  Growth Forecast  The IMF lowered its forecast for economic growth in the U.S.
this year to 2.8 percent from its January projection of 3
percent, while its Japan estimate was cut to 1.4 percent from
1.6 percent. Japan’s government cut its assessment of the
economy for the first time in six months on April 13, after a
record earthquake and ensuing tsunami last month killed more
than 12,000 and led to the worst nuclear crisis since Chernobyl.  China ’s economy expanded 9.7 percent from a year earlier in
the first quarter and consumer prices rose 5.4 percent in March,
the statistics bureau said yesterday. Economists expected growth
of 9.4 percent and a 5.2 percent inflation rate, based on the
median estimates of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  The yuan gained 0.05 percent this week to 6.5325 per dollar,
according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It touched
6.5290 yesterday, the strongest level since the country unified
official and market exchange rates at the end of 1993, on
speculation policy makers will allow gains to tame inflation.  “The inflation problem is getting more complicated because
it’s not only about domestic costs but rising import bills as
well,” said Kenix Lai, a foreign-exchange analyst at Sun Hung
Kai Securities Ltd. in  Hong Kong . “China needs a package of
tools, including currency appreciation, to deal with the price
pressure.”  Intervention Prospects  The won retreated from a 31-month high this week and
Thailand’s baht fell from its strongest level of the year on
concern policy makers would intervene to combat appreciation.  The baht declined 0.3 percent in the first two days of the
week to 30.14 per dollar. Financial markets in Thailand were
closed for the last three days of the week for public holidays.  Bank of Korea  left  interest rates  unchanged on April 12 and
Governor Kim Choong Soo said policy makers were looking
“seriously” at the volatility of the currency. Deputy Governor
Atchana Waiquamdee said April 11 that the Bank of  Thailand 
“stepped in” to ease excessive volatility in the currency.
 Taiwan ’s central bank sold the local dollar in the last minute
of trading that day, according to two traders who declined to be
identified because the authorities don’t disclose such details.  Elsewhere, Taiwan’s dollar fell 0.2 percent for the week to
NT$29.050, according to Taipei Forex Inc. Indonesia’s rupiah
dropped 0.2 percent to 8,663 and  Malaysia ’s ringgit slipped 0.2
percent to 3.0235.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Fion Li in Hong Kong at 
 fli59@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  