-- 
Australia Needs Carbon Tax to Protect Its Prosperity, Swan Says

-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 
2011-04-17T04:02:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/australia-needs-to-introduce-carbon-tax-to-prepare-for-future-swan-says.html
Australia needs to forge ahead with
a carbon tax to protect its prosperity, Treasurer  Wayne Swan 
said as labor unions threatened to oppose the government’s plan
over concerns it will cost jobs.  “These big reforms are always hard fought, they’re always
difficult and they’re always contested,” Swan said in an
interview with Sky Television. “Moving to price carbon is to
make sure we do protect the prosperity and the jobs of the
future.”  The  steel industry  should be given complete exemption from
a carbon tax, Paul Howes the national secretary for the
 Australian Workers Union , said on April 15, according to the
Sydney Morning Herald. Howes also demanded compensation for the
aluminum, cement and glass industries. The Australian
Manufacturing Workers Union supported the AWU, the country’s
biggest union, the newspaper said.  Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s Labor party wants to set a
price on  carbon emissions  from July 2012 in preparation for a
trading system that could begin as early as 2015. Companies
including  BlueScope Steel Ltd. (BSL) , Rio Tinto Group and  Woodside
Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  have called for changes to the plan and warned of
job losses.  “I’m not surprised by the vigor that we’ve seen in the
debate at the moment,” Swan said today. “There’s no doubt that
trade-exposed industries do deserve assistance and we’re engaged
with that sector in discussions.”  Fifty-one percent of 1,016 people polled on March 23-27
opposed Gillard’s plan and 34 percent support it, according to
an  Essential Media  survey. The poll had a margin of error of
plus or minus three percentage points.  Lost Majority  Gillard’s Labor Party lost its majority at the August 2010
national election, the closest ballot in 70 years, and relies on
the support of four non-party lawmakers to pass legislation.  Australia ’s economy is “fundamentally strong” in a still-
fragile global economy recovering from the financial crisis,
Swan said during the interview, speaking from a meeting of the
Group of 20 nations in  Washington .  While parts of the Australian economy such as the retail
and tourism industries are struggling with the strong Australian
dollar, the government remains “determined” to return to a
 budget surplus  by 2013-14, helped by firm commodity prices and a
robust investment pipeline, Swan said.  Australia’s dollar reached $1.0584 on April 8, the
strongest since it was freely floated in 1983.  Growth will be reduced as a result of record flooding in
Queensland this year as well as the earthquake and tsunami in
 Japan , Swan said.  The economy may lose as much as much as 0.75 percent of
growth during the current 2010-11 financial year, he told CNBC
April 14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  