-- 
Tavern on the Green Trustee, New York Settle Over Trademark

-- B y   E d v a r d   P e t t e r s s o n
-- 
2011-04-16T01:26:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/tavern-on-the-green-trustee-new-york-settle-over-trademark-1-.html
The trustee for the liquidation of
Tavern on the Green’s former owners settled a trademark dispute
with  New York City  over the Central Park restaurant’s name.  Under the proposed settlement, the trustee will assign the
restaurant trademark to the city, according to a filing today in
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . The trustee will get 75
percent of the net proceeds from an auction sale to use the name
for restaurants outside New York,  New Jersey ,  Connecticut  and
parts of  Pennsylvania , according to court papers.  Any establishment outside that area that uses the name
“Tavern on the Green” under the agreement will have to
differentiate itself by adding the name of its geographic
location and have a prominent disclaimer that it is not
affiliated with Tavern on the Green in Central Park, according
to the settlement.  The registration for the restaurant’s name expires May 12,
and neither the city nor the estate may be able to renew if the
dispute hasn’t been resolved, lawyers for trustee Jil Mazer-
Marino said in today’s filing, seeking an expedited hearing for
approval of the settlement.  “Interlopers will then have an opportunity to take
advantage of the federal registration lapse to appropriate what
was formerly valuable estate property,” the lawyers said in the
filing.  Most Valuable Asset  Lawyers for Tavern on the Green LP, which filed for
bankruptcy in September 2009, and its creditors have said in
court that the rights to the Tavern name were the most valuable
asset the company possessed, estimated at $19 million.  In March 2010, U.S. District Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum
ruled that  New York  held the rights to the trade name, saying
the city had maintained a restaurant under that name since 1934.
The trustee appealed that ruling in May.  “The city is happy with the settlement and ending the
litigation,” Gerald Singleton, a lawyer for New York City, said
in a telephone interview.  Alan Marder, a lawyer for the trustee, didn’t immediately
return a call to his office after regular business hours.  The trademark case is City of New York v. Tavern on the
Green LP, 09-09224, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
New York (Manhattan). The Chapter 7 liquidation case is Tavern
on the Green LP, 09-15450, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern
District of New York.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edvard Pettersson in  Los Angeles  at 
 epettersson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 