-- 
BofA Hires SEC’s Former Top Cop Lynch for Legal Disputes, Probes

-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 
2011-04-16T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/bank-of-america-enlists-sec-s-ex-top-cop-lynch-for-legal-disputes-probes.html
Gary Lynch, the former Securities
and Exchange Commission enforcement head who later helped Morgan
Stanley and Credit Suisse AG tackle legal disputes, is looking
to repeat his success at the biggest U.S. bank.  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)   announced yesterday  that it had hired
Lynch, 60, as its global chief of legal, compliance and
regulatory relations.  Scott Silvestri , a Bank of America
spokesman, said Lynch wasn’t available for an interview.  Chief Executive Officer Brian Moynihan, 51, brings in Lynch
as the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank deals with lawsuits
and investigations tied to soured loans from the housing boom.
The lender, which posted its first profit in three quarters
yesterday, had its capital plan rejected by the  Federal Reserve 
last month.  “It’s a great challenge, and he’s more than up for it,”
said Harvey Pitt, SEC chairman from 2001 to 2003 and now head of
Washington-based consulting firm Kalorama Partners LLC.
“Regulators will be receptive to him because he has the
experience and knows what their concerns are, but also because
he’s a straight shooter.”  Lynch, who started at the SEC in 1976, headed the
regulator’s enforcement division from 1985 to 1989. He led
investigations of  Ivan Boesky , the former takeover investor who
was convicted of  insider trading , and  Michael Milken , the high-
yield bond chief at Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. who went to
prison for securities violations.  Lynch joined Credit Suisse First Boston as it faced a
federal probe into its handling of initial public offerings
during the dot-com bubble. He took over  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s legal
division after it lost a $1.57 billion verdict as its lawyers
failed to turn over relevant e-mails.  Among the Best  “Companies that find themselves facing these really big
issues need people like Gary, and he’s clearly among the best,”
said Joseph Grundfest, a former SEC commissioner who is now a
Stanford Law School professor. “He’s a problem solver, in a way
that transcends the narrow legal questions and is able to
address the larger business and political policy issues. And the
reality is that a company like Bank of America has to
simultaneously solve all of those questions.”  Lynch’s position was newly created, and general counsel Ed O’Keefe will report to him, the bank said. Lynch, who’s been in
 London  since 2009, is moving back to New York.  Lynch may face a greater variety of issues at Bank of
America than at his previous firms. The bank was among the 14
largest U.S. mortgage servicers that agreed with federal
regulators to review all foreclosed loans from 2009 and 2010,
and pay back losses in cases that were mishandled.  Foreclosure Practices  Bank of America still faces an investigation by state
attorneys general into foreclosure practices. It has agreed to
pay insurers and investors more than  $7 billion  to retire
mortgage-repurchase claims since Moynihan became CEO in 2010.  “Lots of people can litigate in court, but few people know
how to negotiate with regulators because you’ve been there and
done that yourself,” said  John Coffee , a law professor at
 Columbia University  in  New York . “The major banks are still
going to have complicated negotiations with the SEC and other
financial regulators, and it’s good to have someone who knows
how the other side thinks and how to persuade the other side.”  Lynch is among at least three former SEC enforcement
directors helping oversee legal departments at the largest
global banks. Deutsche Bank AG General Counsel Richard Walker
stepped down at the agency in 2001. JPMorgan Chase & Co. named
 Stephen Cutler  to be its top legal officer in 2006, about a year
after he left the government.  Special Access  SEC Inspector General H. David Kotz has questioned how
staff members interact with former SEC enforcement attorneys in
reports, including examinations of how the SEC handled probes of
 Stanford Financial Group , Allied Capital, and Pequot Capital
Management. Kotz said in a 2008 report that a lawyer for a major
Wall Street firm with an interest in the Pequot investigation
was given special access to senior SEC officials.  Lynch, who earned his law degree in 1975 from  Duke
University , was one of  John Mack ’s first hires at  Credit Suisse
First Boston  when Mack became CEO in 2001. He helped negotiate a
$100 million settlement in 2002 of charges the firm allotted
sought-after shares of initial public offerings in exchange for
investor kickbacks in the form of higher commissions.  Mack recruited Lynch to join him when he returned to Morgan
Stanley in 2005, shortly after the firm had lost a $1.57 billion
verdict in a case brought by financier  Ronald Perelman , leading
the then-general counsel to step down. In 2007, the firm won an
appeals court decision that overturned the verdict.  Leaving Morgan Stanley  Less than two months after Mack stepped down as Morgan
Stanley’s CEO, Lynch announced in February 2010 that he would
give up his role as chief legal officer. Lynch remained with the
firm as vice chairman and advised on policy and strategy issues
until he left last month.  “Gary is both very smart and also very experienced, and
they’re not always the same thing,” Pitt said. “Whatever your
past reputation has been, you always have to prove yourself all
over again, but in Gary’s case, that’s not going to be an
issue.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 