-- 
Banks Backed by Private Equity Funds Do Deals as Six U.S. Lenders Collapse

-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-16T04:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/banks-backed-by-private-equity-do-deals-as-6-u-s-lenders-fail.html
Community banks backed by private-
equity funds purchased at least two lenders, or a third of this
week’s  failures , as regulators shutter institutions weakened by
the plunge in real-estate values.  Hamilton State Bancshares Inc. and Community Bancorp LLC,
which together raised more than $1.2 billion for acquisitions,
bought failed lenders in  Alabama  and Georgia, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. said in statements on its website. The
six failures yesterday drained $588.1 million from the FDIC’s
deposit-insurance fund. Community Bancorp purchased Superior
Bank of Birmingham, Alabama.  “This transaction represents a sound strategic move for
Community Bancorp and an exciting growth opportunity,” Chief
Executive Officer Paul B. Murphy Jr. said in a statement. “We
continue to build our competitive banking franchise in the
Southeast.”  Banks are closing under stress from commercial real estate
loans, tied to property values that fell as much as 45 percent
from the October 2007 peak through last August, according to
Moody’s Investors Service. More than 350 lenders have been shut
down since the start of 2008.  Superior Bank, with $3 billion in assets, is the biggest
lender to be shut this year. Community Bancorp will keep the
Superior Bank name, adding 73 branches and 24 consumer-finance
offices in Alabama and  Florida , according to the company’s
statement. It picks up $2.7 billion in deposits, the FDIC said.  $1 Billion  Community Bancorp completed a $1 billion capital raise in
November. Murphy, a former Zions Bancorporation executive, runs
the company with former JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chairman William B. Harrison, the architect of one of the biggest bank mergers in
U.S. history, the $58 billion purchase of Bank One in 2004.  Former JPMorgan executives also sit on the board at
Hamilton State, which paid a 1 percent premium to acquire $304.1
million in total deposits of Cartersville, Georgia-based Bartow
County Bank.  Hamilton added four branches to its 7 existing locations,
according to the FDIC. With deposits of $199.7 million before
the transaction, Hamilton State offers commercial banking for
small- to medium-sized businesses in north  Georgia .  Hamilton State is backed by Angelo Gordon & Co. and
Tailwind Capital LLC, the New York-based firms that invested $60
million each in the Hoschton, Georgia-based lender earlier this
year, according to a statement. Hamilton completed the $231.6
million private placement in February.  AloStar Bank  Regulators closed a second Alabama lender when they
shuttered Birmingham-based  Nexity Bank  and sold its operations
to AloStar Bank of Commerce, according to the FDIC. AloStar
added almost $800 million in assets and more than $630 million
in deposits held at one branch.  AloStar, a newly chartered bank, was started by Michael J. Gillfillan, a former Wells Fargo & Co. chief credit officer, and
former SunTrust Banks Inc. executive Andrew McGhee, founder of
Atlanta-based private-equity firm Archway Equity Partners.  New Horizons Bank, of East Ellijay, Georgia, and Rosemount
National Bank, Rosemount,  Minnesota , were also closed by
regulators.  Citizens South Banking Corp. (CSBC)  paid the FDIC a premium
of 1 percent for New Horizons’ more than $100 million in
deposits,  the FDIC said . Stillwater, Minnesota’s  Central Bank 
bought Rosemount’s sole branch.  Trustmark National Bank, of Jackson,  Mississippi , paid the
FDIC a premium of 0.15 percent to acquire almost $200 million in
deposits from Heritage Banking Group, of Carthage, Mississippi.
Trustmark adds eight branches with the acquisition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in  San Francisco  at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 