-- 
Burkina Faso President Dismisses Cabinet as Soldiers Loot in Ouagadougou

-- B y   S i m o n   G o n g o   a n d   J a s o n   M c L u r e
-- 
2011-04-16T14:55:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/burkina-faso-president-dissolves-government-as-soldiers-rampage.html
Burkina Faso’s  president, Blaise Compaore, dismissed his government and replaced top military
leaders after demonstrating soldiers fired in the air and looted
parts of the capital, Ouagadougou.  General Dominique Djindjere, whose house was attacked March
30 by demonstrating soldiers, was replaced as army chief of
staff by Colonel Honore Nabere Traore, according to a statement
read on state television late yesterday. The head of Compaore’s
presidential guard also lost his job.  Many businesses were closed today in the city as shop
owners protested against looting by the soldiers. “They broke
into shops to collect mobile phones, they took any kind of
objects they could find,” said Morou Koala, a phone seller.  During their march in the city’s Koulouba district, the
shop owners set fire to a bus, said Seydou Zangre, the head of
an association of informal businesses. “We thought they were
going to take measures for our security, but they did nothing,”
Zangre said, referring to the dissolved government.  Burkina Faso , sub-Saharan Africa’s biggest cotton producer,
has been in turmoil since student demonstrations in February
against the death of a pupil in police custody. On March 22,
soldiers protested a court decision sentencing officers to
prison. Compaore, who took power in a 1987 coup, fled
Ouagadougou April 14 after some members of his presidential
guard mutinied,  Agence France-Presse  reported. He returned to
the presidential palace yesterday.  Inequality and Repression  The government declared a 7 p.m. to 6 a.m. curfew starting
today, according to a decree read on state television.  “There is a long history in Burkina of high unemployment,
economic inequality, closed politics and police repression,”
 David Shinn , a former U.S. ambassador to the country, said in an
e-mailed response to questions. “Similar factors applied to
Tunisia and  Egypt ,” where popular protests ousted longstanding
rulers earlier this year.  After the announcement that Compaore dissolved his
government, residents heard more gunfire around two military
bases, while the area near the presidential guard was quiet.  Colonel Moussa Cisse, a spokesman for the army, declined to
comment on the situation until Compaore announces the members of
his new government, when contacted on his mobile phone today.  A government statement read on state television at 1 p.m.
local time yesterday said the soldiers were protesting about
their housing allowance and food rations.  Government’s ‘Regret’  “The government reassures the people that steps are being
taken right now to resolve this situation and expresses its
regret and compassion for all those who have suffered harm,”
according to the statement.  Compaore was elected to a second five-year term in November,
winning about 80 percent of the vote in an election disputed by
opposition parties.  “It may be the end of Blaise Compaore’s rule,” David
Zounmenou, a researcher for the African conflict prevention
program at South Africa-based  Institute for Security Studies ,
said of the uprisings. “The youth are inspired by what is
happening in North  Africa  and you add to this the unhappiness
within the army. He might have to think about a transition.”  Burkina Faso, which borders  Mali ,  Ivory Coast ,  Ghana , Togo,
 Benin  and Niger, ranks 161st out of 169 nations on the United
Nations  Human Development Index , a broad measure of economic and
social well-being.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Gongo in Ouagadougou via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net ;
Jason McLure in Accra at 
 jmclure@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Barden at   abarden@bloomberg.net . 