-- 
Canadian Dollar Snaps Rally as Bank of Canada Notes Currency `Headwinds'

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 
2011-04-16T04:00:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/canada-dollar-snaps-rally-as-boc-notes-currency-headwinds-.html
Canada ’s dollar snapped a three-
week rally against its U.S. counterpart as oil, the country’s
biggest export, declined and the  Bank of Canada  said
“headwinds” caused by currency strength may curb exports.  The loonie, as the currency is nicknamed, weakened as
central bank officials are forecast to keep the rate target at 1
percent during the second quarter before boosting it to 1.5
percent during the third quarter and 2 percent during the fourth
quarter, according to the median in a Bloomberg News survey of
24 analysts. Statistics Canada may report next week that
consumer prices rose 2.8 percent from a year ago, according to
another Bloomberg survey.  “There was a damper on the Canadian dollar this week,”
said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of Nova
Scotia in Toronto. “It should come as no surprise that a strong
Canadian dollar is hurting our manufacturers. It has been for
some time.”  The loonie depreciated 0.4 percent to 95.92 cents per  U.S.
dollar  yesterday, from 95.54 cents on April 8. One Canadian
dollar buys $1.0425.  The currency touched 95.27 cents April 8, the strongest
level since Nov. 15, 2007. The loonie has gained 4.1 percent
against the U.S. currency this year.  Bank of Canada  Canada’s central bank said April 13 that economic growth
will slow, with auto production hampered by  Japan ’s earthquake
and exports curbed by the nation’s strong dollar. Policy makers
kept the benchmark target rate at 1 percent on April 12 where
they’ve kept it since September. They reiterated that further
increases would be “carefully considered.”  “People were expecting a little more hawkish views out of
the bank,” said  John Curran , a senior vice president in Toronto
at CanadianForex Ltd., an online foreign-exchange dealer.
“You’ll probably see the Canadian dollar continue to weaken off
a little here.”  Consumer prices rose 2.8 percent in March from a year ago,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg. The index increased 2.2 percent in February.
 Statistics Canada  is scheduled to report the data on April 19.  Economic Data  Canadian factory sales fell three times faster than
economists predicted in February in a widespread decline led by
lower automobile production. Sales fell 1.5 percent to C$47.1
billion ($49 billion), the largest drop since May 2009,
Statistics Canada said April 14 in Ottawa. Economists in a
Bloomberg News survey predicted a 0.5 percent decrease, based on
the median of 21 estimates.  Crude oil for May delivery declined 2.8 percent this week,
the first drop since the period ended March 18.  “The one thing that’s going to determine where we’re going
to move in the next little while is commodities,” Curran said.
“If you start to see commodities losing cabin pressure, that’ll
turn things around rather quickly.”  Canadian  government bonds  rose this week, pushing the yield
on the benchmark 10-year down 15 basis points, or 0.15
percentage point, to 3.30 percent. The price of the 3.5 percent
security maturing in June 2020 added $1.13 to C$101.60.  U.S. consumers said they expect an inflation rate of 4.6
percent during the next 12 months, the same as in the March
survey, according to the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan
preliminary measure of consumer sentiment yesterday. The
consumer-price index increased 0.5 percent for a second month,
in line with the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, figures from the Labor Department showed
yesterday in  Washington .  Inflation Watch  “Both core inflation and expectations in the Michigan
conference highlighted that there aren’t a lot of pricing
pressures in the U.S.,” Sutton said in a telephone interview.
“That’s a positive sign if you think the  Federal Reserve  is on
hold for some time, which is our base case.”  The  International Monetary Fund  and Group of 20 nations
were gathering in Washington yesterday as the U.S. and  Europe 
debate when and how to rein in budget deficits.  The Canadian dollar “is biased toward a little bit of
weakness,” said  Michael O’Neill , managing director at
Knightsbridge Foreign Exchange Inc. in Toronto. “It’s going to
retreat a bit on profit-taking ahead of a weekend with the G-
20.”  To contact the reporter for this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  