-- 
Capitals Take 2-0 NHL Series Lead Over Rangers; Tampa Bay Defeats Penguins

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-16T05:55:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/capitals-take-2-0-nhl-series-lead-over-rangers-tampa-bay-defeats-penguins.html
The top-seeded  Washington Capitals 
have a two-game advantage against the  New York Rangers  in the
National Hockey League Eastern Conference quarterfinals.  Jason Chimera and Jason Arnott scored two minutes apart in
the second period last night at the Verizon Center in  Washington 
to give the Capitals a 2-0 victory against the eighth-seeded
Rangers. Michal Neuvirth stopped 22 shots for his first playoff
shutout as the Capitals took a 2-0 lead in the best-of-seven
series.  Game 3 between the Capitals and the Rangers will be played
tomorrow when the first-round series moves to  New York .  At Consol Energy Center in Pittsburgh, the Tampa Bay
Lightning beat the Pittsburgh Penguins 5-1 to tie their Eastern
Conference series at one game apiece.  Eric Brewer scored 2:02 into the game to put  Tampa Bay 
ahead 1-0. Vincent Lecavalier scored on a power play five
minutes later, followed by Nate Thompson’s goal for a 3-0 lead
late in the first period. Martin St. Louis scored on a power
play late in the second period for Tampa Bay, and Mattias Ohlund
scored an empty net goal with 2:05 left in the game.  Craig Adams scored Pittsburgh’s only goal in the second
period.  The series moves to Tampa for Game 3 on April 18.  At Rogers Arena in Vancouver, British Columbia, the Canucks,
favored to win their first Stanley Cup, defeated the defending
champion Chicago Blackhawks 4-3 to take a 2-0 advantage in their
Western Conference series.  Daniel Sedin scored two goals for the Canucks, who move to
 Chicago  for their next game against the Blackhawks.  At Honda Center in Anaheim, California, the Anaheim Ducks
beat the Nashville Predators 5-3. Bobby Ryan had two goals for
the Ducks, who split their Western Conference series at one game
each.  The Predators host Game 3 tomorrow in Nashville.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in Washington at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  