-- 
China's Tightening to Continue for ‘Some Time,’ Central Bank Governor Says

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-16T08:19:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/china-s-tightening-to-continue-for-some-time-central-bank-governor-says.html
China  will continue tightening
monetary policy for “some time,” central bank Governor Zhou Xiaochuan said a day after the world’s second-biggest economy
reported inflation accelerated to the fastest pace since 2008.  “We will remove the monetary factors that are related to
inflation,” Zhou said at a briefing today in the southern
Chinese province of  Hainan , where he’s attending the Boao Forum
for  Asia . “Our monetary policy will continue to move from
moderately loose to prudent. This means properly tightening. The
trend will continue for some time.”  China may increase the reserve requirement ratio for the
nation’s banks this month in an effort to curb inflation, which
the government said yesterday accelerated to 5.4 percent in
March, according to  Barclays Capital  and Citic Securities Co.
The People’s Bank of China has raised  interest rates  four times
and increased reserve requirements six times since the third
quarter of last year in a bid to rein in consumer prices.  “Policy tightening should remain firm,” Chang Jian, a
Hong Kong-based economist with Barclays Capital, said by phone
today. “Inflation risk remains significant. If they maintain
the tightening stance and continue to withdraw liquidity and
continue to control credit as well as the pace of lending, that
at least gives you a higher chance of success.”  Economic Growth  China’s economy  grew 9.7 percent in the first quarter,
faster than the 9.4 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
survey, according to figures released by the National Bureau of
Statistics yesterday.  The central bank reported a day earlier that M2 money
supply grew a faster-than-expected 16.6 percent in March, and
that new yuan loans for the month also exceeded economists’
estimates at 679.4 billion yuan.  China last increased the reserve requirement effective from
March 25 and raised benchmark lending and deposit rates from
April 6. The central bank has also imposed differentiated
reserve requirements on the nation’s lenders. The reserve ratio
is 20 percent for China’s biggest banks and the one-year
benchmark for borrowing costs is 6.31 percent.  Zhou said today China would continue to use differentiated
regulations for financial institutions based on their systemic
importance. He also said there isn’t an absolute ceiling for the
level of banks’ reserve requirements.  “I agree with the general view that there is no absolute
line or limit for where to set the reserve requirement ratio,”
Zhou said. “It depends on many conditions. When those
conditions change, the force and room for reserve requirement
ratio adjustments will also change.”  Inflation in March was largely driven by food costs, which
rose 12 percent last month from a year earlier. Non-food
inflation accelerated to 2.7 percent.  --Eva Woo,  Henry Sanderson . With assistance from Huang Zhe in
Beijing. Editors: Bloomberg News, Reinie Booysen  To contact Bloomberg News staff on this story:
Eva Woo in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7537 or
 ewoo9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Liu  at   jliu42@bloomberg.net  