-- 
Clinton Discusses North Korea’s Nuclear Program, Trade in Seoul

-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n
-- 
2011-04-16T13:23:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/clinton-discusses-north-korea-s-nuclear-program-trade-in-seoul.html
U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary
Clinton  met with her South Korean counterpart to discuss  North
Korea ’s nuclear weapons program and a free-trade agreement.  “We have worked closely together, and will continue to do
so, on non-proliferation,” Clinton said in  Seoul  together with
Foreign Minister Kim Sung Hwan.  Commenting on the outlook for congressional approval for
the Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement, Clinton said the two
governments will be “making the case together to our respective
legislators and I am very confident that there will be a
positive outcome.”  Kim expressed “deep appreciation for your steadfast
support and close coordination with us in dealing with North
Korean issues.”  Clinton will meet with President Lee Myung Bak tomorrow
before flying to  Japan  to pledge her support for the country’s
citizens after the March 11 earthquake and tsunami.  Clinton’s meeting with Kim will explore ways to rekindle
six-party nuclear negotiations that stalled in December 2008
after North Korea refused to allow inspectors to take samples
out of the country for testing. Tensions flared on the Korean
peninsula after North Korea’s Nov. 23 bombing of a South Korean
island that killed four people.  China , the two Koreas, Japan, U.S. and Russia first
convened in 2003 to conduct a series of negotiations geared
towards convincing North Korea to give up nuclear weapons.  Separately, former U.S. president Jimmy Carter plans to
travel to North Korea this month on a private mission following
the arrest of a U.S. citizen. This would be his second visit to
Pyongyang since August, when Carter secured the release of
Aijalon Mahli Gomes, who was held for seven months.  Trips by former presidents can “help set the mood” for
nuclear talks, according to Kim Yong Hyun, professor of North
Korean studies at  Dongguk University  in Seoul.  Former U.S. president  Bill Clinton  went to Pyongyang in
August 2009, winning the release of two U.S. journalists
arrested in March that year for entering the country illegally.  -- With assistance from Bomi Lim in Seoul. Editors: Will
Kennedy, Andrew Blackman  To contact the reporter on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in Seoul at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  