-- 
Currency Intervention Shouldn't Be a Part of Trade Policy, Subbarao Says

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-16T21:08:07Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/currency-intervention-shouldn-t-be-a-part-of-trade-policy-subbarao-says.html
Countries should not use currency
intervention as a part of trade policy, and should allow
economic fundamentals to dictate exchange rates, said  Duvvuri Subbarao , governor of India’s central bank.  “Letting exchange rates remain aligned with economic
fundamentals, and an agreement that currency interventions
should not be resorted to as an instrument of trade policy
should be central to a coordinated approach at a multilateral
level,” Subbarao, who is chief of the Reserve Bank of India,
said today in the text of a speech to the International Monetary
and Financial Committee in Washington.  The comments are part of a weekend of meetings during which
Group of 20 nations officials outlined methods to decide when
indicators, including budget deficits and external trade
balances, appear excessive. India is among the seven countries
targeted for further study.  The global recovery may be “jeopardized” by a sustained
rise in oil prices, and food-supply constraints are also causing
volatility in prices, Subbarao said in a separate statement to
the IMFC, the steering committee of the IMF.  Regarding capital flows into developing economies, Subbarao
said that managing such flows “should not be treated as an
exclusive problem of emerging market economies.” While growth
prospects of emerging markets and their declining rates of
inflation are helping to pull in capital, advanced economies are
also pushing capital flows with “easy  monetary  policies,” he
said.  Countries must collectively work to stem protectionism and
resist the short-term pressures that are likely to grow in
coming years, Subbarao said. “Covert protectionism has been on
the rise,” he said in the speech.  The challenges of a single reserve currency for the world
have become apparent, and while a solution must be developed,
the Special Drawing Rights don’t yet satisfy the conditions for
an alternative, Subbarao said. “We see the move to a
multicurrency world as a gradual evolution,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Shobhana Chandra  in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  