-- 
Draghi Sees European Banks Raising Capital Within a Year

-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-04-16T23:11:06Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/draghi-sees-european-banks-raising-capital-within-a-year-1-.html
European Central Bank  governing
council member  Mario Draghi  said major European banks are
raising capital or will do so within a year, bringing them into
compliance with new capital requirements.  “The landscape in  Europe  is divided between banks that can
raise capital and the banks that cannot raise capital,” Draghi
told journalists in Washington. “The banks that can raise
capital are doing so and will be doing so within a year. They’re
doing so in a way that will place them in compliance” with
Basel III rules, he said.  The comments underscore how European lenders are
strengthening their balance sheets to repay government support
and meet stiffer regulatory requirements more than two years
after the financial crisis which intensified with the collapse
of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. in September 2008.  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  said this week that it raised more than half
of its targeted 11 billion euros ($16 billion) in the first step
of a plan to repay aid from the German government.  Draghi, who was speaking in his capacity as chairman of the
Financial Stability Board, said he believes banks around the
globe are seeking to apply the capital rules agreed to by
regulators under the aegis of the  Basel Committee on Banking
Supervision . Banks are seeing the benefits that will come with
stronger balance sheets, he said.  No ‘Flagrant Deviations’  “So far, frankly, we’re not observing flagrant
deviations,” said Draghi, who is also governor of the Bank of
 Italy . “We have the feeling that, in fact, banks understand
that solid  capital requirements  are fundamental to doing
business in a healthy and safe way. It may decrease the  risk
premium  that institutions will have to pay on their funding.”  Draghi also said that the FSB intends to tackle what it
sees as “inconsistencies” in derivative rules across
jurisdictions, while also tightening supervision of the so-
called shadow banking system and exchange-traded funds.  “If you look at the crisis, much of the credit
intermediation that was happening in the shadow-banking system
was actually supported by banks,” he said. Special-purpose
vehicles and  hedge funds  that are supported by credit lines from
banks are an example of such support, he said.  Some exchange-traded funds may need closer surveillance, he
said.  “Most of the ETF’s on the market remain plain vanilla,”
Draghi said. “There has been rapid financial innovation in some
areas, bringing elements of opacity, complexity” and possible
concerns about liquidity, he said.  “These disquieting developments, including synthetic
ETFs,” require “increased scrutiny,” he said. “We’re not
saying it’s all wrong, we’re just saying we have to look at
these instruments with great care.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in  Washington  at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  