-- 
Tighter Monetary Policy Likely as Europe Fights Price Pressure, Weber Says

-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-04-16T22:03:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/ecb-s-weber-says-tighter-monetary-policy-can-be-expected-1-.html
Bundesbank President  Axel Weber 
said today that European price pressures have increased
significantly and that tighter monetary policy can be expected.  Weber, who is a  European Central Bank  governing council
member, told reporters in  Washington  that the ECB “countered”
inflationary pressure with its interest-rate increase April 7.  “We see a significant increase in inflationary pressure,”
Weber said. “We’re still of the opinion that the current
monetary policy stance at an interest rate level of 125 basis
points continues to be supportive of the economy and
expansive.” A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  The ECB is balancing the need for tighter policy in
countries like  Germany , whose economy is booming, against the
risk that higher rates could exacerbate the sovereign debt
crisis afflicting peripheral euro-area nations.  The euro region’s inflation rate of 2.7 percent in March,
which followed a 2.4 percent reading in February, represents a
“clear overshooting” of the ECB’s definition of price
stability, said Weber, who’s attending the Spring Meeting of the
 International Monetary Fund  and the  World Bank  in Washington.  “If global price pressure continues -- there have been few
signs in IMF discussions that this will change over the rest of
the year -- one has to expect a further normalization of
monetary policy in view of the price outlook,” Weber said.  Support Reduction  Weber said he expects “banking markets to normalize” and
that a further reduction of support and special measures for
banks will be on the agenda of central banks in the course of
this year. The ECB last week maintained its emergency program of
government-bond purchases and providing banks with unlimited
liquidity.  Germany’s budget deficit may shrink “in the direction of 2
percent” of gross domestic product this year, said Weber,
providing an outlook that’s more optimistic than the
government’s. Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble , who briefed
reporters alongside Weber, said earlier today he expects the
shortfall to contract to 2.5 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Washington at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  