-- 
Egypt Orders Dissolution of Mubarak’s Former Ruling Party

-- B y   A b d e l   L a t i f   W a h b a   a n d   O l a   G a l a l
-- 
2011-04-16T22:00:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/egypt-orders-dissolution-of-mubarak-s-former-ruling-party-3-.html
An Egyptian court ordered the
dissolution of the former ruling  National Democratic Party  of
ousted president  Hosni Mubarak , a measure protesters had
demanded in recent weeks.  The court also ruled that the party’s assets should be
liquidated and transferred to the government, Judge Magdy al-
Agati, head of the Supreme Administrative Court, said yesterday
in Cairo. The party had held the majority of seats in the now
defunct parliament. Protesters have also called for members to
be banned from standing in legislative elections in September.  Mubarak’s three-decade rule ended in February after he
ceded power to the country’s Supreme Council of the Armed Forces
following 18 days of mass protests. Top NDP officials, including
Mubarak, his son Gamal and businessman Ahmed Ezz, chairman of
Ezz Steel, have since been arrested and questioned as part of a
wider corruption investigation.  The ruling is irreversible and may not be appealed,
according to court documents seen by Bloomberg.  The court said its decision was based on the reality that
the downfall of Mubarak and his ruling regime by the popular
uprising required the dissolution of the NDP since it was part
of the toppled regime, according to the documents.  The decision to dissolve the NDP “is a patronizing act and
assumes custodianship over the Egyptian people, who have already
brought down the party,” said Hisham Kassem, a human rights
activist and a publisher. “They should rather leave it to the
ballots and let people have the choice of voting for them or
not, but dissolving it through a court decision brings us back
to the old system. This is unacceptable.”  Restitution  In December’s parliamentary election the NDP won more than
80 percent of the seats while its main rival and  Egypt ’s biggest
opposition group, the Muslim Brotherhood, didn’t take a single
seat. Egyptian human rights groups said the election was marred
by violations, including vote-rigging, violence and obstruction
of opposition candidates.  “The former members of the party should in retrospect pay
back any benefits they have acquired illegally through their
membership in the party,” Kassem said.  Mubarak and his top aides were summoned for questioning
about alleged embezzlement of public funds, and attacks on
protesters during the uprising against his regime, the
prosecutor said on April 10.  Mubarak’s health is stable after he suffered a heart attack
while being questioned, Egyptian state television reported April
14. Egypt’s public prosecutor last week ordered the transfer of
the former leader to a military hospital, said Adel el-Saeed, a
spokesman for the prosecutor’s office. Mubarak, 82, who remains
in the resort town of Sharm El Sheikh, will be detained at Torah
Prison near Cairo when his health improves, el-Saeed said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Abdel Latif Wahba in Cairo at 
 alatifwahba@bloomberg.net 
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Digby Lidstone at 
 dlidstone@bloomberg.net . 