-- 
Erdogan Pledges More Democracy, Roads in Turkish Election Bid

-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 
2011-04-16T15:58:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/erdogan-pledges-more-democracy-roads-in-turkish-election-bid.html
Turkish Prime Minister  Recep Tayyip Erdogan  begin his party’s re-election campaign, pledging a more
democratic system and infrastructure investment that he said
would triple the size of the economy in 12 years.  The  Justice and Development Party  will rewrite the
constitution and review the way that political parties are
funded and organized, Erdogan said in a speech at the Ankara
headquarters of his party today.  He also pledged to work toward a solution to the country’s
Kurdish situation. The party stands by its goal of full European
Union membership for the country and plans to build close ties
with the Middle East, he said.  Erdogan, 57, is campaigning for a third term in office,
which would make him the longest-serving prime minister since
the country began competitive elections in 1950. He won 341
seats in the Ankara parliament in 2007 elections, short of the
367 needed to approve constitutional change without holding a
public referendum.  Boosted by gross domestic product growth of 8.9 percent
last year, his party has the backing of 45 percent of the
electorate, Milliyet newspaper reported on April 11, citing Adil Gur, chief of research company A&G Arastirma. Justice and
Development would get between 290 and 360 seats in parliament,
depending on which parties beat the 10 percent vote threshold
required to enter the legislature, Milliyet said.  Erdogan told voters his party wants to extend its record of
economic expansion and set a goal of $2.1 trillion in GDP by
2023, the 100th anniversary of the foundation of the republic.
GDP last year was about $730 billion. Coalition governments are
marked by instability and “the loss of everything that has been
achieved,” he said.  The party remains committed to budgetary discipline and a
“low inflation, low rates” environment, he said, outlining
plans to expand the road and rail network as well as build low-
cost housing for the poor. He said there would be cheap
furnished homes for newly-weds on low wages. Half of  Turkey ’s 74
million population is under 29 years of age.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  