-- 
Texas University Endowment Storing About $1 Billion in Gold Bars

-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g   a n d   P h a m - D u y   N g u y e n
-- 
2011-04-16T09:45:57Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/texas-university-endowment-storing-about-1-billion-in-gold-bars.html
The University of  Texas  Investment
Management Co., the second-largest U.S. academic endowment, took
delivery of almost $1 billion in gold bullion and is storing the
bars in a  New York  vault, according to the fund’s board.  The fund, whose $19.9 billion in assets ranked it behind
 Harvard University ’s endowment as of August, according to the
National Association of College and University Business
Officers, added about $500 million in gold investments to an
existing stake last year, said Bruce Zimmerman, the endowment’s
chief executive officer. The holdings are worth about $987
million, based on yesterday’s closing price of $1,486 an ounce
for Comex futures.  The decision to turn the fund’s investment into gold bars
was influenced by Kyle Bass, a Dallas hedge fund manager and
member of the endowment’s board, Zimmerman said at its annual
meeting on April 14. Bass made $500 million on the U.S.
subprime-mortgage collapse.  “Central banks are printing more money than they ever
have, so what’s the value of money in terms of purchases of
goods and services,” Bass said yesterday in a telephone
interview. “I look at gold as just another currency that they
can’t print any more of.”  Gold reached an all-time high of $1,489.10 an ounce
yesterday in New York as sovereign debt concerns boosted demand
for the metal as a store of value. Gold has climbed 28 percent
in the past year on Comex.  The endowment, which oversees funds held by the University
of Texas System and  Texas A&M University , has 6,643 bars of
bullion, or 664,300 ounces, in a Comex-registered vault in New
York owned by  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA) , the London-based bank,
according to a report distributed at the meeting in Austin.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin, Texas, at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net .
Pham-Duy Nguyen in  Seattle  at 
 pnguyen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 