-- 
Finance Chiefs at IMF Meeting Split Over Causes of Capital Flow Imbalances

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 
2011-04-16T20:21:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/finance-chiefs-at-imf-split-over-forces-behind-capital-flows.html
Global finance chiefs split over
which policies are most to blame for propelling potentially
risky capital flows into emerging markets, with both sides
pushing the  International Monetary Fund  to adjudicate.  The disagreement marked the second day of the IMF’s semi-
annual meetings which drew policy makers from the lender’s 187-
nation membership to Washington. U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner blamed a lack of currency appreciation in developing
nations such as China for driving so-called hot money into more
open markets, while  Brazil  Finance Minister  Guido Mantega 
pointed his finger at loose monetary policies in rich nations
including the U.S.  The argument came as nations again sparred over an IMF
proposal to endorse a limited use of capital controls to shield
economies from such flows before they spur overvalued currencies,
inflation and asset bubbles. Group of 20 policy makers ducked
the issue yesterday, saying they would keep studying the topic.  “Capital recipient countries are experiencing both
commodity inflation and currency overvaluation related to
capital flows,” Mantega said in  a statement  today to the IMF’s
policy-steering committee.  The  World Bank  calculated in January that net private
capital flows to  developing countries  expanded 44 percent in
2010 to about $753 billion. While these investments often fuel
growth, economies including Brazil and  South Korea  have recently
begun to fret that they risk undermining their economies.  ‘Primary Trigger’  By keeping  interest rates  low, countries such as the U.S.
are providing the “primary trigger of many of today’s economic
woes,” said Mantega. He defended the use of capital controls as
legitimate “measures of self defense.”  “Domestic political constraints have been too easily
invoked by reserve currency issuing countries as a reason for
adopting ultra-expansionary monetary policies, but this does not
change the fact that these policies generate spillovers that
have made life difficult for other countries,” he said.  The U.S. was also chastised for its  budget deficit  even as
Geithner reiterated President  Barack Obama ’s plan of this week
to cut the cumulative shortfall by $4 trillion within 12 years.  “Insufficient budgetary consolidation may spark off
further escalation of debt sustainability issues with
repercussions on confidence and the still fragile financial
sector,” Dutch Finance Minister  Jan Kees de Jager  said. As well
as worries over  Europe ’s finances “debt dynamics in other
advanced countries, including the  United States , are of
concern,” he said.  Imposed Tax  With its currency climbing, Brazil has imposed a tax of 6
percent on international bond sales and loans with an average
minimum maturity of up to 360 days. It received net inflows of
$10.5 billion in foreign currencies from trade and financial
investments this month through March 25, compared with $7.4
billion for all of February, according to the central bank.  People’s Bank of China Deputy Governor  Yi Gang  suggested
the IMF pursue “management” of cross-border capital flows as
he reiterated inflation remains his country’s biggest challenge.  “Great volatility of cross-border massive capital flow
brings heightened risks in terms of inflation and asset
bubbles,” Yi said. “Loose monetary conditions build up
inflationary pressures” in both advanced and emerging market
economies, he said.  ‘Fueling Inflation’  In his statement, Geithner put the onus on nations that
manage their currencies, blaming them for magnifying “capital
flows into emerging markets with open capital accounts,
heightening upward pressure on exchange rates that are flexible
and fueling inflation in economies with managed, undervalued
exchange rates.”  “The IMF has the capacity and responsibility to play a
critical role in solving this problem and should do so by
significantly strengthening its surveillance,” he said.  The IMF said in a report this month that nations should use
 capital controls  as a last resort to manage inflows of money
that threaten their financial stability. Such barriers should be
applied only after countries strengthen their banking systems
and adopt economic measures such as building up reserves,
tightening fiscal policies and lowering central bank interest
rates, it said.  While he welcomed the IMF’s recognition that capital
controls have some use, Mantega rejected its proposal for a code
of conduct as failing to account enough for the policies of
advanced economies and for constraining the response of those
countries suffering from the flows.  ‘Overburdened’  “Ironically, some of the countries that are responsible
for the deepest crisis since the Great Depression, and have yet
to solve their own problems, are eager to prescribe codes of
conduct to the rest of the world, including to countries that
are overburdened by the spillover effects of the policies
adopted,” he said  Geithner said the IMF’s initiative marked a “good start”
and that the U.S. agrees with guidelines laying out which
measures should be used before capital controls. “The Fund
could increase capital account coverage in its bilateral and
multilateral surveillance,” he said.  Singapore Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam, who
heads the IMF’s steering committee, said the Fund would work to
ensure policy makers understand the consequences of their own
actions for other countries.  ‘Fragile Situation’  “We’re still in a fragile situation, we have to be very
alert and the task of the fund is to enhance its surveillance
capability,” he said.  Chilean central bank president Jose De Gregorio said in  his
address  that while capital controls can work if they help reduce
current account deficits and insulate economies against
vulnerabilities, “their actual effectiveness in these areas is
still a matter of debate” given they can create distortions.
The G-20 said yesterday it will continue to study the matter.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the G-20 is
making gradual progress on the issue. “We’re making progress,”
Schaeuble told reporters. “We’re moving towards each other step
by step.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in  Washington  at  skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 Srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  