-- 
France Telecom, Deutsche Telekom Said to Prepare Joint Equipment Purchases

-- B y   M a t t h e w   C a m p b e l l
-- 
2011-04-17T11:13:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/france-telecom-deutsche-telekom-said-to-ready-purchasing-pact.html
France Telecom SA (FTE)  and  Deutsche
Telekom AG (DTE)  are preparing an accord that may lead to joint
purchasing of telecommunications equipment at lower costs,
according to a person familiar with the plan.  The companies will announce their plans tomorrow, the
person said. They are also in discussions that may result in
joint bids on electronic health projects, sharing of mobile
networks in Poland and common standards for “machine-to-
machine” communications in some western European countries,
according to a second person familiar with the situation.  Both people declined to be identified because the talks are
private. Officials for both Paris-based France Telecom and Bonn-
based Deutsche Telekom declined to comment.  Deutsche Telekom Chief Technology Officer Ed Kozel and
 France Telecom ’s Olaf Swantee, who is responsible for sourcing
equipment, will be present at a London press conference
tomorrow, the companies said April 15 in a joint e-mailed
invitation. The companies will announce “a new step” in their
co-operation plans, they said.  Economies of Scale  France and Germany’s largest phone companies are trying to
cut costs and increase economies of scale by working together on
new technologies. France Telecom and Deutsche Telekom have
already announced plans to co-operate in different areas as part
of a broader push by phone companies to connect devices like
home appliances to wireless networks. They agreed in September
2009 to merge their U.K. mobile-phone units, creating that
country’s largest mobile operator.  The rising pace of technological change in the mobile
industry is pushing mobile operators to collaborate. France
Telecom Chief Executive Officer Stephane Richard has built
closer links between Europe’s five largest mobile operators, a
group that includes  Telefonica SA (TEF) ,  Vodafone Group Plc (VOD) , and
 Telecom Italia SpA (TIT) , in addition to Deutsche Telekom and France
Telecom.  The CEOs of the five companies, four of which are former
national phone monopolies, met last year in Paris to discuss
subjects including work on mobile operating systems and handling
surging quantities of data traffic on wireless networks.  Europe’s biggest operators also are working through the
London-based GSM Association, an industry group, on common
standards for emerging technologies like so-called embedded SIM
cards and mobile payment using near-field communication, or NFC.  Apple Inc. and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , whose respective iOS and
Android operating systems are increasingly dominating the mobile
industry, are both experimenting with their own NFC systems that
would allow users to pay for physical goods with a swipe of
their smartphone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Campbell in Paris at 
 mcampbell39@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at   kwong11@bloomberg.net . 