-- 
G-20 Sees Global Economy Strengthening Amid Shocks to Outlook

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/g-20-sees-global-economy-strengthening-amid-shocks-to-outlook.html
Group of 20  finance chiefs said the
world economy is strengthening even after recent shocks as they
fleshed out details of a surveillance system aimed at
highlighting and fixing fault lines that threaten growth.  While the recovery is “broadening and becoming more self-
sustained,” social unrest in the Middle East and North Africa,
as well as Japan’s earthquake, raise “uncertainty” in the
outlook, the G-20’s finance ministers and central bankers said
after talks yesterday in  Washington . The officials outlined
methods to decide when indicators, including budget deficits and
external trade balances, appear excessive.  Policy makers want to spot imbalances earlier and then
prescribe policies to rectify them before they imperil global
growth. The intent is to encourage more-balanced international
expansion after uneven trade and investment flows helped trigger
the credit crisis.  “The guidelines operate like a net which holds the
countries which violate or do not respect” the benchmarks,
French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  told reporters. Seven
countries, including the U.S. and China, are large enough to be
of systemic importance and will face tougher scrutiny.  New Ammunition  The discussions have proved difficult, as China signaled
concern that the initiative will give the U.S. and  Europe  new
ammunition in their push for the yuan to appreciate faster.
Differences over the root causes of imbalances and the lack of a
mechanism to enforce policy shifts may still undermine the
initiative, said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at
Bank of Nova Scotia in Toronto.  “We’re a long way from fixing the global imbalances,”
said Sutton.  The G-20 oversees 85 percent of the world economy and
policy makers including U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner and Brazilian central bank governor Alexandre Tombini
met as investors debate the strength of the expansion. While
data yesterday showed China grew a faster than estimated 9.7
percent in the first quarter, its policy makers are trying to
curb the quickest inflation in three years. Elsewhere, higher
 oil prices  are sapping  consumer spending  in the U.S., Japan is
struggling after last month’s natural and nuclear disaster and
Europe is still battling a debt crisis.  ‘Increasingly Robust’  The G-20 noted “increasingly robust” demand growth as a
reason for confidence. Germany-based carmaker  Volkswagen AG (VOW) 
yesterday posted record first-quarter sales, powered by
deliveries of models in China, Europe and the U.S.  France ’s
Carrefour SA, the world’s second-largest retailer, this week
reported first-quarter sales rose 3.9 percent, led by Latin
America and  Asia .  Officials of the G-20 said downside risks remain, although
there is enough capacity to meet global energy demand while oil
exceeds $100 a barrel.  The G-20 also agreed to strengthen coordination “to avoid
disorderly movements and persistent exchange rate
misalignments” and to establish a path to increasing the number
of currencies that comprise the IMF’s Special Drawing Rights.
Members will also research the use of  capital controls  further,
officials said.  Private Savings  Having agreed in February to monitor indicators, including
budget deficits and private savings rates, for signs of
imbalances, the G-20 yesterday outlined the guidelines against
which they will be assessed. Two are focused on the
circumstances and history of each economy and the others on
historical comparisons with the remainder of the G-20 and
similar countries.  A nation identified as having persistently dangerous levels
of two of the measures will be subjected to further study and
may have remedies suggested.  Countries accounting for more than 5 percent of the G-20’s
gross domestic product will be more rigorously studied given
their “greater potential for spillover effects,” the statement
said. The seven are the U.S.,  Japan ,  Germany , France, U.K.,
 India  and China, Canadian Finance Minister Jim Flaherty
indicated.  The G-20 wants to avoid a repeat of the last expansion when
trade imbalances opened, which helped spark the deepest global
recession in seven decades. China and other Asian nations
recycled the dollars from their trade surpluses into U.S. bonds,
depressing global yields, while U.S. consumers relied on the low
interest rates to drive an unsustainable global spending spree
and record trade deficit, in a self-reinforcing cycle.  Remain Wide  The  International Monetary Fund  this week predicted global
current account imbalances will remain wide if countries with
trade surpluses, such as China, fail to spur domestic demand and
those with trade deficits, like the U.S., don’t save more. Data
also showed  China ’s currency reserves exceeded $3 trillion for
the first time; in the U.S., lawmakers are at odds over how to
pare a record budget deficit.  The next step is for officials to fine-tune the plan and
present leaders with a list of those countries aggravating
imbalances at a November summit in Cannes, France.  Slowing agreement on the guidelines has been suspicion on
China’s part that it’s being bullied into letting the yuan
appreciate more quickly. China has limited its currency’s gain
to about 4.5 percent against the dollar since the end of 2009,
sparking criticism the world’s second-largest economy is fueling
domestic inflation, building excessive reserves and exacerbating
trade deficits.  The yuan gained 0.05 percent this week to end at 6.5325 per
dollar, according to the China Foreign Exchange Trade System. It
declined 0.02 percent yesterday and touched 6.5290 earlier, the
strongest level since the country unified official and market
exchange rates at the end of 1993.  More Flexibility  Chinese central bank governor  Zhou Xiaochuan  said yesterday
in the southern Chinese province of Hainan that the G-20 should
focus on economic issues and that his nation will continue to
allow more flexibility in the yuan. Chinese officials say low
 interest rates  in the west are causing strong capital flows into
emerging markets such as theirs.  “The communique has fully reflected demands of all parties
and is balanced,” China vice finance minister  Zhu Guangyao  said
in Washington. “China is satisfied with the result.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Simon Kennedy  in Washington at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Deen in Washington at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  