-- 
Currency Exchange Needs More Flexibility to Stem Imbalances, Geithner Says

-- B y   R e b e c c a   C h r i s t i e
-- 
2011-04-16T19:00:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/geithner-says-major-economies-should-let-currencies-adjust-1-.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  said the world’s major economies need greater
flexibility in exchange rates to avoid economic disruptions.  A few emerging-market nations are running “tightly managed
currency regimes” by using capital controls and accumulating
 excess reserves , Geithner said today in a statement for the
International Monetary Fund’s steering committee. The controls
put pressure on countries with market-driven exchange rates and
fuel inflation in the countries whose currencies are undervalued,
he said.  Geithner’s comments, while not identifying China, are part
of the U.S.’s efforts to get the country to allow the yuan to
rise further. The Group of 20 nations, including the U.S. and
China, agreed yesterday to set up a process for identifying and
addressing economic imbalances.  “The current system of exchange rates is an obstacle to
effective international cooperation on imbalances,” Geithner
said in prepared remarks to the International Monetary and
Financial Committee in Washington. “Facilitating rebalancing
requires broad consensus that major economies -- advanced and
emerging -- need to allow their exchange rates to adjust in
response to market forces.”  Geithner called on the IMF to take a larger surveillance
role on exchange rates, reserve accumulation and capital flows.
He said the U.S. “will do its part” to rein in budget deficits
and address its own imbalances and called for other nations to
take action.  Budget Cuts  “Others, especially those whose fundamentals call for
greater exchange-rate flexibility, must also contribute,”
Geithner said.  U.S. President  Barack Obama  has proposed cutting $4
trillion in  cumulative deficits  within 12 years through a
combination of spending cuts and tax increases. The
administration is resisting Republican calls for swifter cuts,
while also pushing for a set of rules to enforce spending
reductions over time.  Geithner said the administration wants to limit spending
without threatening the economic recovery. He said the U.S.
economic outlook has “improved substantially” since October.  The global economy faces headwinds from budgetary and
banking strains in some European countries, he said. Emerging-
market nations are grappling with rising commodity and energy
prices and will need to craft policies that do not exacerbate
global imbalances, Geithner said.  Egypt, Tunisia  The World Bank and the IMF will play an important role by
providing financial support to Egypt, Tunisia and other
countries in political transition, Geithner said in a separate
statement today to the IMF and World Bank development committee.
The World Bank also can help mitigate the effects of rising food
costs, he said.  “In some countries, the recurrence of rising food and
commodity prices threatens to slow economic recovery, increase
poverty and undermine social stability,” Geithner said in the
text of remarks. “It is critical that the international
community pursue longer-term actions to improve resilience to
supply shocks, particularly as global food supplies will have to
increase by an estimated 50 percent over the next 20 years to
meet projected demand.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Rebecca Christie  in Washington at 
 rchristie4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  