-- 
Gilt Yields Fall Most in 14 Months as Interest Rate Wagers Drop

-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 
2011-04-16T06:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/gilt-yields-fall-most-in-14-months-as-interest-rate-wagers-drop.html
U.K. government bonds posted a
weekly advance, pushing two-year yields down the most in more
than a year, as investors reduced bets on higher  interest rates 
after reports signaled the economic recovery may stall.  The pound headed for its first decline in three weeks
against the dollar after inflation unexpectedly slowed in March
and retail sales plunged. The reports came as the economic
recovery faces the biggest budget cuts since World War II.
Short-sterling futures advanced during the week, as traders
pushed back expectations for higher borrowing costs from the
 Bank of England .  “The consumer price index data was sharply below central
expectations and retail sales showed pain on the high street,”
said Mark Capleton, U.K. interest-rate strategist at  Societe
Generale  in  London . “There’s been a massive reduction in the
rate-hike probability, with the market pricing out the chance of
a May rate hike.”  The two-year gilt yield slid 20 basis points to 1.21
percent as of 4:21 p.m. yesterday, the biggest weekly decline
since the five days ending Feb. 26, 2010. Ten-year yields also
slid 20 basis points, to 3.60 percent.  Inflation slowed to 4 percent in March from 4.4 percent in
February, the  Office for National Statistics  said on April 12,
while the  British Retail Consortium  reported that retail sales
fell 1.9 percent from a year earlier, the most since the data
began in 1995. A report released on April 13 showed jobless-
benefit claims unexpectedly rose by 700 in March.  Short-sterling futures advanced, leaving the implied yield
on the contract expiring in December down 15 basis points in the
week at 1.28 percent.  The pound declined 0.5 percent against the dollar, its
first fall in three weeks, and was little changed versus the
euro.  The Bank of England is scheduled to release the minutes of
its last policy meeting on April 20, after keeping the main
interest rate at a record low 0.5 percent on April 7. The
central bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee remains
split on the outlook for rates. Three members called for a rate
increase last month and one said the bank should expand its bond
program from the current 200 billion pounds ($327 billion).  Britain’s currency has lost 0.1 percent this year, compared
with a 3.4 percent gain by the euro, according to Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes, which track the
performance of a basket of 10 currencies.  Gilts have lost investors 0.6 percent this year through
April 14, according to indexes compiled by Bank of America
Merrill Lynch. The German bunds index fell 2.6 percent this
year, while  U.S. Treasury  lost 0.1 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Charlton in London at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 