-- 
Greek Yields Reach Records on Debt Restructuring Speculation

-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 
2011-04-16T06:30:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/greek-yields-reach-records-on-debt-restructuring-speculation.html
Greek government bonds dropped the
most in five weeks as speculation mounted that the nation may
restructure its debt, leading a slump in securities from
 Europe ’s most indebted nations.  The 10-year yield reached a record after German Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that  Greece  may need to
renegotiate its debt burden. Irish yields surged after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the nation’s credit rating. Portuguese
two, five and 10-year yields all climbed to records as the
government negotiated its financial aid package, while German
bunds rose as investors sought security.  “Talk of Greek restructuring and concerns over  Portugal ’s
bailout and ongoing worries about the peripherals have been key
drivers in pushing spreads wider,” said Eric Wand, a rates
strategist at Lloyds Bank Corporate Markets in London. “Bunds
are appreciating compared to peripherals, but not keeping ground
with Treasuries and gilts.”  The Greek 10-year yield increased 97 basis points in the
week to 13.83 percent at 4:07 p.m. in London yesterday, after
reaching a record 13.84 percent. Yields on two-year notes rose
216 basis points to 18.44 percent.  The extra yield investors demand to hold Greek 10-year debt
instead of equivalent German securities surpassed 1,000 basis
points for the first time since before the euro’s debut in 1999.
 Standard & Poor’s  head of European sovereign ratings,  Moritz Kraemer , told Bloomberg Television that a restructuring could
involve imposing losses of between 50 percent and 70 percent on
bondholders.  Irish Downgrade  Investor confidence in the area was further dented as
Ireland’s credit rating was cut two levels by Moody’s to the
lowest investment grade.  Greek debt has lost 3.2 percent this month as default
concerns mount, making it the worst performer among the euro-
area nations, according to indexes compiled by the European
Federation of Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg. The
bonds of Portugal, which last week became the third nation to
request financial aid, have handed investors a 2.2 percent loss,
while bunds are 0.4 percent lower. Ireland’s debt has returned
4.9 percent and  Spain  0.4 percent.  Benchmark German 10-year bonds rose, pushing the yield down
10 basis points in the week to 3.38 percent. The yield on two-
year notes slipped six basis points to 1.85 percent.  Spain will auction bonds maturing in April 2021 and January
2024 next week. Belgium plans to sell debt due in 2013, 2021 and
2041, while Greece and Portugal will auction bills.  France  will
sell inflation-linked securities.  “The market may try to force a concession ahead of the
auctions, given the general backdrop for peripheral products,”
said Wand. “Further wobbles in periphery before that means they
may be paying a worse price to get their paper away.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in  London  at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at   dtilles@bloomberg.net . 