-- 
ICICI May Curtail Lending to Indian Companies From Units in U.K., Canada

-- B y   G e o r g e   S m i t h   A l e x a n d e r   a n d   A n t o   A n t o n y
-- 
2011-04-18T05:59:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/icici-bank-s-u-k-canada-subsidiaries-may-cut-lending-to-indian-companies.html
ICICI Bank Ltd. (ICICIBC) ,  India ’s second-
largest lender, said it may curb credit to Indian companies from
its U.K. and Canadian units as regulators seek to curtail risks
tied to funds it collected in those nations.  “Overseas regulators are increasingly requiring deposits
raised in a particular geography to be deployed largely in the
same domain,” Chief Financial Officer N.S. Kannan said in an
interview on April 16. “The balance sheet of our overseas
subsidiaries in the U.K. and Canada will remain steady or see a
decline.”  A tightening of the rules may make it tougher for ICICI
Bank to tap demand from Indian clients for overseas loans as
domestic borrowing rates climb. Regulators globally are
increasing oversight after European governments spent $5.3
trillion bailing out banks amid the worst financial crisis in 70
years and the U.S. set up a $700 billion fund to buy troubled
assets from lenders.  “The fact is that growth abroad will be very muted”
because of the regulatory hurdles, said Manish Agarwalla, an
analyst at MF Global-Sify Securities Pvt. in Mumbai. ICICI Bank
“will have to rethink its strategy for its global offices.”  The Mumbai-based lender began discussions with regulators
in  Canada  and the U.K. last year after it was told about the
proposed restrictions, a person with direct knowledge of the
matter said. ICICI Bank aims to take a decision about its
international operations in three to six months, the person said,
declining to be identified before a public announcement.  Shrinking Assets  Assets of ICICI Bank’s U.K. unit fell 3 percent to $7
billion in the three months ended Dec. 31 from the previous
quarter, according to a  presentation  on the company’s website.
In Canada, its assets declined 6 percent to C$4.7 billion ($4.9
billion) from C$5 billion.  The U.K. financial regulator may be daunted by the prospect
of further rescues of local depositors in foreign banks
following the global credit crisis.  The 2008 failure of Iceland’s Landsbanki Islands hf
threatened to leave 350,000 British and Dutch depositors in the
lurch, forcing their governments to repay the funds and seek
compensation from the island. Icelanders this month rejected a
depositor claims accord with the U.K. and  Netherlands , setting
the stage for a yearlong court battle.  ‘Proceeding Cautiously’  The regulators “do not want an undue concentration of
assets to any single overseas” country, ICICI Bank’s Kannan
said. “Accordingly, we are proceeding cautiously with respect
to our growth strategy for overseas subsidiaries.”  Chris Hamilton , a spokesman for the U.K.’s Financial
Services Authority, and Rod Giles, a spokesman for Canada’s
Office of the Superintendent of Financial Institutions, declined
to comment.  Shares of ICICI Bank rose 1.1 percent to 1,114.05 rupees as
of 10:28 a.m. in Mumbai trading. That extended its gains for
this year to 21 percent, compared with a 12 percent advance in
the benchmark Sensitive Index.  “India-linked international opportunities, both corporate
and retail, continue to be an attractive segment for us and it
is the core of our international strategy,” Kannan said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
George Smith Alexander in Mumbai at 
 galexander11@bloomberg.net ;
Anto Antony in  New Delhi  at 
 aantony1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net ;
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  