-- 
IMF’s Singh Says Japan Power Loss May Disrupt Emerging Asia

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-04-16T17:49:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/imf-s-singh-says-japan-power-loss-may-disrupt-emerging-asia-2-.html
Anoop Singh, director of the
International Monetary Fund’s Asia-Pacific Department, said
power losses in  Japan  after the nation’s earthquake and tsunami
threaten to disrupt growth in the region’s emerging economies.  The IMF forecast for growth of about 8 percent in emerging
Asian economies this year would be imperiled by more outages in
Japan, where damage to the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear power
plant has prompted consideration of energy constraints, he said.  “The risks are clearly on the downside,” Singh said at a
news conference in Washington today. “There are uncertainties
about power outages that could disrupt production in the supply
chain.”  Japan may impose legal limits to electric power use as
policy makers prepare for shortages that are likely to worsen as
the summer approaches, the government of  Asia ’s largest
advanced economy said last week. “Sizeable” reconstruction
spending should help spur a rebound in growth, Singh said.  In  China , the world’s fastest-growing major economy,
inflation “should peak shortly and will come down later this
year,” he said.  China’s economy  will grow about 9.5 percent
this year, and  India ’s will expand approximately 8 percent,
Singh said.  First Quarter  China’s economy grew a more-than-estimated 9.7 percent in
the first quarter and inflation accelerated in March to the
fastest pace since 2008, the country’s statistics bureau said
yesterday, adding pressure for more monetary tightening.
The central bank may boost reserve requirements for lenders
“imminently” to drain cash from the economy, Credit Agricole CIB
and Australia & New Zealand Banking Group said.  “Bringing inflation under control is their top priority,”
Singh said. “Policies are targeting this. This is clearly
recognized by state leaders. We can be sure the measures that
they have taken so far, these will be increased until we are
certain inflation is coming down.”  Inflation pressures across Asia were highlighted by India
reporting a larger-than-forecast 8.98 percent jump in the
wholesale-price index in March from a year earlier. The leaders
of  Brazil ,  Russia , India, China and  South Africa , meeting in
Sanya, China, this week said that volatile commodity prices pose
a threat to the global economy, calling for more regulation.  While higher food prices are a risk for the Indian economy,
investment inflows are less of a concern than in other nations,
Singh said. Indian Finance Minister Pranab Mukherjee raised the
cap on foreign ownership of corporate infrastructure bonds five-
fold to $25 billion on Feb. 28 to promote investment in power
networks and transport facilities. Inadequate infrastructure in
those areas may cost Indian 1.1 percentage points of growth by
2017, according to McKinsey & Co.  “There’s certainly much more room for capital flows in
India to be supportive of greater infrastructure spending,”
Singh said. “We are quite optimistic on India’s growth rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in  Washington  at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  