-- 
IMF Should Help Manage Capital Flows, PBOC’s Yi Says

-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 
2011-04-16T20:11:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/imf-should-help-manage-capital-flows-pboc-s-yi-says-1-.html
The  International Monetary Fund 
should work on the management of cross-border capital flows and
global liquidity, the deputy governor of  China ’s central bank
said, highlighting inflation as a global “policy issue.”  “Great volatility of cross-border massive capital flow
brings heightened risks in terms of inflation and asset
bubbles,”  Yi Gang  of the People’s Bank of China said today at
an IMF meeting in Washington. “Loose monetary conditions build
up inflationary pressures” in both advanced and emerging market
economies, Yi said.  Advanced countries should “address global imbalances” from
their “root cause” by working on their fiscal sustainability
and reducing the cost of government and bank financing, Yi said.
The European sovereign debt crisis remains “severe” and
countries need to seek political consensus to reduce sovereign
debt risks, he said.  China, where inflation quickened to the fastest pace in
almost three years last month, has blamed the U.S. monetary
stimulus for fueling increases in its consumer prices. Some U.S.
economists say the inflation results from the yuan’s inflexible
exchange rate.  Currency depreciation in China and other Asia countries has
been “translated into” inflation,  Lawrence Summers , President
 Barack Obama ’s former top economic adviser, said earlier this
week at a conference in Washington. “So their ability to manage
the real exchange-rate is actually lower than many people would
have imagined,” he said.  Exchange-Rate, Inflation  The yuan’s gradual appreciation versus both the dollar and
a currency basket will help China tame inflation, Yi said in an
interview yesterday. The government is still able to meet a 4
percent target for inflation this year, he said.  China’s economy  grew a more-than-forecast 9.7 percent in
the first quarter, while consumer prices rose 5.4 percent, the
fastest pace since July 2008. The yuan has strengthened 0.9
percent this year to 6.5325 per dollar as of yesterday, after
appreciating 3.5 percent in 2010.  Yi also said in his statement that the IMF should explore
more diversified reserve currencies and wider use of the Special
Drawing Rights the basket of currencies that IMF
members use to settle accounts with each other.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  Washington  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  