-- 
Indonesia Seeks Suicide Bomber’s Identity, Motive for Police Mosque Attack

-- B y   F e m i   A d i
-- 
2011-04-16T06:42:38Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/indonesia-seeks-suicide-bomber-s-identity-motive-for-police-mosque-attack.html
Indonesian police are trying to
identify a suicide bomber and discover why he attacked a mosque
inside a West Java police station compound during prayers
yesterday, killing himself and wounding 30 other people.  “We can’t indicate the motive now,” Anton Bachrul Alam, a
spokesman for the Indonesian National Police, told reporters at
a briefing in Jakarta today. “It’s being investigated.”  The suicide bombing was the first such attack in  Indonesia 
since July 2009. The country, a secular state with the world’s
biggest population of Muslims, has stepped up raids against
terrorist suspects since bombings in 2009 at Jakarta’s JW
Marriott and Ritz-Carlton hotels killed nine people, including
the two attackers.  Indonesian authorities have blamed Jemaah Islamiyah, an al-
Qaeda-linked group, for bomb attacks at hotels, nightclubs and
embassies that claimed more than 200 lives in the past decade.  Yesterday’s incident occurred in Cirebon at 12:17 p.m.
Jakarta time, Alam said. The bomber was a man between 25 and 35
years old, 181 centimeters (5 feet, 9 inches) tall and weighed
about 70 kilograms (154 pounds). Police will publish a photo of
him and are asking the public’s help to identify him, Alam said.  “Police have to realize that there is a shift in the
target,” Noor Huda Ismail, founder of Jakarta’s Institute of
International Peace Building, said by phone yesterday from
Semarang, Central Java. “The bombers used to attack the U.S.
and its allies. Now they’ve turned to the state symbols that are
considered their enemy.”  Pakistan  Arrest  Pakistan notified Indonesian officials last month that it
arrested a man who may be Umar Patek, Pakistani  Foreign Ministry 
spokeswoman Tehmina Janjua told reporters in Islamabad on March
31. Patek is accused of helping carry out the October 2002
nightclub bombings in the resort island of Bali that killed 202
people,  The arrest may shed light on terrorist networks in the
region, according to an  International Crisis Group  adviser.  Patek’s arrest “does not mean an end to terrorist attacks,
only that his information may lead to better understanding of
networks and therefore more scope for preventive programs,”
Sidney Jones, a Jakarta-based senior adviser with Crisis Group,
said in an e-mail April 1.  Patek “will have information that everyone wants on the
nature of terrorist links between Pakistan and  Southeast Asia ,
between Indonesia and Mindanao, and perhaps between Mindanao and
the Middle East,” Jones wrote in the e-mail. Mindanao is an
island of the  Philippines  where Islamist insurgents have waged a
war for independence.  Noordin Mohammad Top  Police in 2002 described Patek as a Javanese Arab who lived
in Indonesian towns such as Solo, Yogyakarta and Pemalang. He
was accused of placing a getaway bike at a mosque to divert the
attention of police, Chief Investigator I Made Mangku Pastika
said at the time.  In September 2009, police killed militant leader Noordin Mohammad Top, the man suspected of involvement in every major
anti-Western attack in Indonesia since 2002. In March of the
same year, they killed terrorist leader and suspected Bali
bomber Dulmatin and two others.  On Feb. 10, Indonesian cleric Abu Bakar Bashir went to
trial in Jakarta on terrorism charges that could bring the death
penalty four years after his acquittal for links to the Bali
nightclub bombings.  While Bashir has served two jail terms since 2003,
authorities have never convicted him of terrorism as part of a
crackdown on militants under President Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono.  Training Camp  Police arrested Bashir, 72, last year and accused him of
contributing funds to a terrorist training camp in Aceh province.
The charges could result in a sentence ranging from three years
in prison to death, Bashir’s lawyer, Achmad Michdan, said in an
interview in February.  Bashir’s arrest last year followed a  February raid  on a
training camp in Aceh that produced a list of more than 100
terrorism suspects, according to the government.  Indonesia allowed Aceh to impose Islamic Shariah law in
2001 in a bid to win over the population during the central
government’s war with separatists there. More than 98 percent of
Acehnese are Muslims who mostly adhere to a stricter
interpretation of Islam than others in the country.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Femi Adi in Jakarta at 
 fadi1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  