-- 
Ivory Coast's Abidjan Faces Clashes Amid Attempts to Disarm Gbagbo Militia

-- B y   B a u d e l a i r e   M i e u
-- 
2011-04-16T09:21:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/ivory-coast-s-abidjan-faces-clashes-amid-attempts-to-disarm-gbagbo-militia.html
Fighting broke out in the Abidjan
neighbourhood of Yopougon as  Ivory Coast ’s new government
struggled to disarm militias loyal to former President  Laurent Gbagbo , according to residents in the area.  The Republican Forces, who support President-elect  Alassane Ouattara , are trying to “clear Yopougon of all the pro-Gbagbo
militants who are still armed,” said Doumbia Lancina, one of the
fighters, by phone from the area yesterday.  The pro-Gbagbo fighters moved into Yopougon following the
former president’s capture on April 11. Gbagbo had clung to
power in the world’s top cocoa producer after losing a Nov. 28
election to Ouattara, the internationally recognized winner of
the vote.  The pro-Gbagbo fighters “have arms caches everywhere,” said
resident Astin Yapi by phone yesterday. “The FRCI entered the
neighborhood to disarm Gbagbo’s fighters, but they’ve refused,”
he said, using the French acronym for the Republican Forces.  “The FRCI and militia are fighting every day in a kind of
urban guerrilla war,” Alain Gba, a resident of the
neighbourhood, said yesterday. “I had to move my wife and
children to shelter to avoid them getting hit by stray bullets.”  Gbagbo, who is being held in custody by the Ouattara
administration, was captured in his residence by Republican
Forces fighters that got backing during a 10-day battle for
Abidjan by  United Nations  and French air attacks.  Ivory Coast’s  Defense Ministry  called for the disbanding of
militias and asked citizens to hand in weapons to the country’s
security forces “without fear or risk of reprisals” in an e-
mailed statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Baudelaire Mieu in Lome via Accra at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at   asguazzin@bloomberg.net . 