-- 
Japan May Need to Restructure Nuclear Regulatory Agencies, Lawmaker Says

-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 
2011-04-16T05:40:20Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/japan-may-need-to-restructure-nuclear-controls-after-quake-lawmaker-says.html
Japan  should consider restructuring
oversight of its nuclear  energy  infrastructure after the crisis
in Fukushima revealed difficulties coordinating different
agencies, lawmaker Goshi Hosono said today.  “It’s fine when things are normal, but coordination
becomes extremely difficult in an emergency,” Hosono, a member
of the ruling  Democratic Party  of Japan, said on a TV Tokyo
weekly news program. There are too many nuclear-related
organizations, he said.  Japan may merge two agencies to create a body similar in
authority to the  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission , the
Mainichi newspaper reported last week, without saying where it
obtained the information.  The Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency, which dispatches
officials to power plants to oversee operations, and the Nuclear
Safety Commission of Japan, which advises the government when
accidents occur, may be combined, the newspaper said.  “Operations of the Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency
and the Nuclear Safety Commission of Japan overlap in many
areas,” Hosono said earlier on a TV Asahi broadcast. “We need
to think about how to restructure them.”  The Nuclear Safety Commission has caused public confusion
because it releases information in several different ways,
Hosono also said on TV Asahi. This variety can be useful when
things are normal, but in emergencies information must be
disclosed in a timely and appropriate manner, he said.  The March 11 magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami crippled
 Tokyo  Electric Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear station,
causing radiation leaks. The Nuclear and Industrial Safety
Agency on April 12 raised the severity level of the accident to
7, the highest level on the global scale, matching the 1986
Chernobyl disaster.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Tokyo at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net . 