-- 
Karzai and Gilani Agree on Commission for Taliban Peace Talks

-- B y   E l t a f   N a j a f i z a d a   a n d   J a m e s   R u p e r t
-- 
2011-04-16T15:01:02Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/karzai-and-gilani-agree-on-commission-for-taliban-peace-talks.html
The leaders of  Afghanistan  and
Pakistan announced a joint commission to support eventual peace
talks between the U.S.-backed Afghan government and the Taliban
guerrilla movement.  The governments “have agreed to establish the Afghanistan-
Pakistan joint commission for facilitating and promoting
reconciliation and peace,” Pakistan Prime Minister Yousuf Raza Gilani told reporters in Kabul after talks with Afghanistan
President  Hamid Karzai . “I assure president Karzai that
Pakistan strongly supports an Afghan-led process for
reconciliation.”  The announcement was the most public sign so far of plans
for peace talks following several rounds of meeting that have
involved the U.S., the U.K., Pakistan and Turkish officials.  The talks in Kabul follow visits by Pakistan’s top
government and military intelligence officials to the U.S., the
U.K. and  Turkey , all of which may play key roles in backing
Afghan government negotiations with the Taliban.  Afghanistan’s Taliban maintain bases in Pakistan’s border
districts with Afghanistan and many of its factions have long
had support from the Pakistani army. Afghan officials have
accused Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence Directorate of
backing Taliban attacks on Afghan government and Indian targets.  “Pakistan’s role as facilitator in the peace process is
important,” Karzai said at today’s press conference.  Pakistan’s army has ruled the country for 32 of its 63
years and retains control over policy making on security
matters, and its support would be essential to any peace talks
according to Pakistani analysts including Muhammad Mehdi, a
foreign policy adviser to former Prime Minister  Nawaz Sharif .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Rupert in Islamabad at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  