-- 
New York Jeweler Esmerian Pleads Guilty to Bankruptcy, Wire Fraud Scheme

-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-16T00:11:03Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/new-york-jeweler-esmerian-pleads-guilty-to-bankruptcy-wire-fraud-scheme.html
New York  jeweler Ralph O. Esmerian
pleaded guilty to a bankruptcy fraud scheme and other crimes for
pledging at least $20 million of jewels as collateral on
multiple loans from Merrill Lynch & Co. and other lenders.  Esmerian, 71, the former owner of Fred Leighton Holding
Inc., told U.S. District Judge  Denise Cote , in New York, today
that he had engaged in a scheme to conceal assets from the
 bankruptcy court  as well as  wire fraud , and attempted to sell
off and repurchase antique jewels when he was facing bankruptcy
in April 2008.  Prosecutors from the office of  Manhattan  U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara said in November, at the time the charges were
filed, that Esmerian borrowed $210 million against the jewels to
help finance his businesses. About $177 million was borrowed
from Merrill Lynch Mortgage Capital Inc. to buy  Fred Leighton , a
rare antique and vintage jewelry dealer.  Asked by Cote if he knew what he was doing was a crime,
Esmerian replied, “I knew it was something wrong.”  In court today, Esmerian told Cote that the assets and
jewels he had embezzled and double-pledged were worth “at least
$20 million.” Assistant U.S. Attorney David Massey told the
judge that the government valued the assets at “between $20
million to $50 million.”  While he had faced as long as 30 years in prison, under a
plea agreement with the U.S., Esmerian faces from 97 months to
ten years in prison when he is sentenced on July 22, Cote said
today.  ‘Sad Day’  “It’s a very sad day for Mr. Esmerian and his family,”
Patricia Pileggi, Esmerian’s lawyer, said outside the courtroom.
Esmerian and his family “have been collecting fine antique
jewelry for four generations and today everything is gone. He
has nothing.”  The U.S. said after he borrowed the funds, Esmerian, a
fourth-generation dealer and collector, began to sell collateral
pledged to Merrill without notifying the lender, according to
court papers. He also “double-pledged” the items to obtain
other loans, including $40 million from Acorn Capital Group LLC,
prosecutors said in November.  Prosecutors said when the charges were announced that after
Esmerian caused Fred Leighton to file for  bankruptcy protection 
in April 2008, he repeatedly and systematically embezzled
property belonging to Fred Leighton and other debtors, the U.S.
said.  Lalique Necklace  The criminal complaint described items Esmerian used in the
scheme worth more than $9 million, including a Lalique gold
enamel necklace belonging to Sarah Bernhardt valued at $858,500
and a golden album commissioned by  Marie Antoinette  in 1781,
worth an estimated $1.5 million.  Esmerian secretly sold one of the most valuable items
belonging to Merrill, an engraved diamond and ruby butterfly
brooch by Boucheron, circa 1894, worth at least $2.45 million,
according to the U.S. Esmerian sold it to another dealer for
$2.2 million and had about $1.1 million of the proceeds wired to
a Swiss bank account he controlled, Bharara’s office said.  When Merrill discovered the theft of the brooch, Esmerian
raised funds to buy it back by stealing an additional $10
million in property, according to the complaint. Prosecutors
said he also lied to the federal bankruptcy judge presiding over
the Fred Leighton bankruptcy.  “We appreciate the government’s handling of this matter,”
 Bill Halldin , a spokesman for Merrill, said in an e-mail.  Fred Leighton jewelry has been featured on the cover of
Vogue magazine and in  Sofia Coppola ’s “Marie Antoinette” film.
In November 2009, Fred Leighton was purchased out of bankruptcy
by a group led by Kwiat Enterprises LLC.  The case is U.S. v. Ralph Esmerian, 10-mj-2589, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  