-- 
Nigerian President Jonathan Extends Election Lead Over Muslim Rival Buhari

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-17T15:46:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/nigeria-awaits-results-of-presidential-election-amid-voting-irregularities.html
President  Goodluck Jonathan 
extended his lead in Nigeria’s presidential vote with about half
the results released, having 9.5 million votes compared with
5.3 million for his closest rival,  Muhammadu Buhari .  Jonathan’s ruling People’s  Democratic Party  won 11 of 17
states and Abuja, the capital, according to results released by
the Independent National Electoral Commission. Nuhu Ribadu of
the Action Congress of Nigeria scored 1.4 million votes, winning
only southwestern Osun state.  Africa’s most populous country of more than 140 million
people is roughly split between a north made up mainly of
Muslims and a largely Christian south. The main challengers to
Jonathan, a 53-year-old Christian from the oil-rich southern
Niger River delta region, are Buhari, a Muslim 68-year-old
former military ruler, and Ribadu, 50, of the Action Congress of
 Nigeria , the former head of the anti-graft agency.  “The election was not without problems, in particular
isolated incidents of intimidation, violence and illegal
voting,” Moshood Erubami, chairman of Project Swift Count, a
coalition of civic groups monitoring the vote, said in an e-
mailed statement today. However, “these incidents didn’t
undermine the overall credibility of the process.”  To win the presidency, a candidate has to win a majority of
the votes and take 25 percent of the vote in two-thirds of the
country’s 36 states.  Reduced Majority  While Jonathan’s party saw its majority in the Senate and
House of Representatives reduced in last week’s legislative
elections, it still scored well. The PDP took 45 of the 72
Senate seats declared so far and 123 of 234 seats in the lower
chamber, according to the website of the electoral commission.  Fifteen of the Senate’s 109 districts and 48 of the House’s
360 constituencies will hold the vote on April 26 because of
problems with the ballot papers, INEC said.  Jonathan has pledged to target spending on infrastructure,
including power and railways, in a bid to boost employment in a
country where more than half of the people live on less than $1
a day, according to the  United Nations Development Programme .  Buhari and Ribadu have said that Jonathan has failed to
tackle poverty, corruption and violence.  The son of a canoe-maker, zoology graduate Jonathan was
relatively unknown until 1999 when he became deputy governor of
Bayelsa state. He became governor when his boss, Diepreye
Alamieyeseigha, was impeached by the state assembly after being
charged in the U.K. with  money laundering . In 2007, he was
picked as the running mate on the PDP ticket and in May assumed
the presidency when Umaru Yar’Adua died.  Delta Amnesty  Yar’Adua started an amnesty program in the Niger River
delta that calmed militant attacks after they cut 28 percent of
Nigeria’s oil output between 2006 and 2009. The Hague-based
 Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,
 Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of San Ramon,  California ,  Total SA (FP)  of  France  and
Italy’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state oil company
that pump more than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Nigeria’s oil and gas industry, which accounts for 80
percent of government revenue, earned $59 billion last year,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  The competition for the spoils of office spurred a violent
electoral campaign with at least 25 people killed during the
legislative vote,  Independent National Electoral Commission 
Chairman  Attahiru Jega  said on April 13.  Polling Center Blast  One person died and eight others were injured in a blast at
a polling center yesterday in the Kabala district of the
northern city of Kaduna, police said.  Authorities in Nigeria’s north have blamed a group known as
Boko Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, for a spate of bomb attacks and killings targeting
government officials and the security forces since last year.  There were more than 50 incidents of ballot-box snatching,
under-age voting and voter intimidation reported from the
country’s 120,000 polling stations, according to a statement
from the Abuja-based Nigerian Election Situation Room, a
coalition of 22 civic groups monitoring the election.  The electoral commission expressed “regret” over the
arrests of some people who were observing the vote, according to
an e-mailed statement. “Partisan agents” posing as observers
were arrested and some legitimate monitors were rounded up at
the same time by mistake, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 