-- 
Nigeria Counts Presidential Votes With Incumbent Jonathan as Frontrunner

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-16T19:06:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/nigeria-counts-presidential-votes-with-incumbent-jonathan-as-frontrunner.html
Vote counting got underway in
Nigeria,  Africa ’s top oil producer, following a presidential
election that incumbent Goodluck Jonathan is favored to win.  Results are expected within 48 hours of the polls’ closing,
which took place around 6 p.m. local time in the West African
nation, the Independent National Electoral Commission said in an
e-mailed statement today.  There were more than 50 incidents reported, including
ballot-box snatching and voter intimidation, according to a
statement from the Abuja-based Nigerian Election Situation Room,
a coalition of 22 civil society observer groups.  Nigerian voters chose whether to give power to Jonathan, a
53-year-old Christian from the oil-rich southern Niger River
delta region, where an armed insurgency cut the nation’s crude
output by 28 percent from 2006 to 2009. His two main challengers,
both Muslim northerners, are former military ruler  Muhammadu Buhari , 68, and Nuhu Ribadu, the 50-year-old ex-head of the
anti-graft agency.  Reduced Majority  “It’s an emotional thing for the Niger delta to have one
of their own at the top,” Anyakwee Nsirimovu, executive
director of Port Harcourt-based Institute for Human Rights and
Humanitarian Law, said by phone yesterday.  While Jonathan’s ruling People’s  Democratic Party  saw its
majority in the Senate and House of Representatives reduced in
last week’s legislative elections, it still scored well. The PDP
took 59 of the 90 Senate seats declared so far and 40 of 262
seats in the lower chamber, the electoral commission said April
12.  Fifteen of the Senate’s 109 districts and 48 of the House’s
360 constituencies will hold the vote on April 26 because of
problems with the ballot papers, INEC said. To win in the first
round, Jonathan must obtain a majority and secure 25 percent of
the vote in two-thirds of  Nigeria ’s 36 states.  “The PDP has won across the country, unlike the other
parties,” Clement Nwankwo, executive director of the  Policy and
Legal Advocacy Centre , said by phone yesterday from Abuja. “In
places it didn’t win, it came second. I think that lead will be
difficult to overturn by the other parties.”  While Jonathan’s campaign slogan is a “breath of fresh
air,” his PDP has ruled Nigeria since it emerged from military
rule in 1999. There are no real ideological differences between
the candidates, said Rotimi Oyekanmi, the chief executive
officer of Renaissance Capital West Africa.  Power and Corruption  “Instead, there are a number of critical issues. One is
the power situation, another is the Niger Delta and then
corruption,” he said yesterday by phone from Lagos, Nigeria’s
commercial capital. “They all seem to be saying the same things,
though saying they’ll do better than the other.”  Jonathan has pledged to target spending on infrastructure,
including power and railways, in a bid to boost employment in a
country where more than half of the people live on less than $1
a day, according to the  United Nations Development Programme .  “The road map for power, which aims to improve power
supply by selling the state-owned power companies to investors,
is one critical thing he has done,” Oyekanmi said.  Buhari and Ribadu have said that Jonathan has failed to
tackle poverty, corruption and violence.  Canoe Makers  The son of a canoe-making family with a degree in zoology,
Jonathan was relatively unknown until 1999 when he became deputy
governor of Bayelsa state. He became governor when his boss,
Diepreye Alamieyeseigha, was impeached by the state assembly
after being charged in the U.K. with  money laundering . In 2007,
he was picked as the running mate on the PDP ticket and in May
assumed the presidency when Umaru Yar’Adua died.  Yar’Adua started an amnesty program in the Niger River
delta that calmed militant attacks. Hague-based  Royal Dutch
Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX) 
of  San Ramon ,  California ,  Total SA (FP)  of  France  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI) 
run joint ventures with the state oil company that pump more
than 90 percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Nigeria’s oil and gas industry, which accounts for 80
percent of government revenue, earned $59 billion last year,
according to the National Bureau of Statistics.  The competition for the spoils of office spurred a violent
electoral campaign with at least 25 people killed during the
legislative vote,  Independent National Electoral Commission 
Chairman  Attahiru Jega  said on April 13.  An explosion was reported at about 8:30 p.m. yesterday at
an electoral commission office in the northeastern city of
Maiduguri, capital of Borno state. No one was hurt, Borno Police
Commissioner Mike Zuokumor said by phone today.  The electoral commission expressed “regret” over the
arrests of some people who were observing the vote, according to
an e-mailed statement. “Partisan agents” posing as observers
were arrested and some legitimate monitors were rounded up at
the same time by mistake, the commission said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 