-- 
Noda Says Quake Reconstruction to Help Economy Recover From Temporary Dips

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 
2011-04-16T05:01:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/noda-says-quake-tsunami-reconstruction-will-help-japan-s-economy-recover.html
Japan’s economy will overcome some
temporary setbacks and may recover once reconstruction from last
month’s earthquake and tsunami damage begins, Finance Minister
 Yoshihiko Noda  said.  “Japan’s economy will likely slump in the near-term, but
it may start to recover once reconstruction activities start
kicking in,” Noda said in  Washington  overnight, after a meeting
of finance ministers and central bankers from Group of 20
nations. “We need to keep in mind three uncertainties -- the
nuclear problems, power supply shortages and global supply chain
disruptions.”  The March 11 magnitude-9 earthquake and tsunami left more
than 28,000 dead or missing, knocked out plants, and triggered a
nuclear crisis. The government last month estimated damages from
the disaster may swell to as much as 25 trillion yen ($300
billion).  While the recovery is “broadening and becoming more self-
sustained,” unrest in the Middle East and North Africa, as well
as  Japan ’s earthquake, raise “uncertainty” in the outlook, G-
20 finance ministers and central bankers said in a statement.
The G-20 will provide “any needed cooperation” with Japan, it
said.  Priority on Relief  Noda said the priority for the government is to undertake
relief measures, such as building temporary homes for evacuees
displaced by the disaster and clearing debris, and to submit an
extra budget to parliament in April to finance that work.
Following that, the government should immediately start
compiling a second extra budget for reconstruction that could
require more financing, he said.  “It’s necessary to address whether we are going to seek a
path to restore fiscal health in the medium-term at the same
time,” Noda said, indicating the government may flesh out a
consolidation plan around the middle of the year when it reviews
its fiscal goals.  Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  plans to unveil this
month what he says may be the first of multiple supplementary
budgets. Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano told reporters on
April 7 that the first budget may be 4 trillion yen.  Chernobyl Level  The quake and ensuing tsunami crippled the Fukushima Dai-
Ichi nuclear plant operated by Tokyo Electric Power Co., causing
radiation leaks and power shortages in eastern Japan. Government
officials this week raised the severity level of the accident to
the same level as the 1986 Chernobyl disaster.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, who held a joint
press conference with Noda in Washington, said he told the G-20
members that Japan’s financial system and the financial markets
remain “resilient” after the disaster.  “We will continue strong support of the economy and
financial markets,” Shirakawa said.  After the disaster in northeastern Japan, the central bank
doubled to 10 trillion yen a fund to provide cash to markets by
buying assets such as corporate debt and exchange-traded funds.
It also unveiled a 1 trillion yen, one-year loan program for
banks, aimed at getting funds to companies hit by the quake and
tsunami.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  