-- 
Obama, Republicans Trade Criticisms Over Nation’s Fiscal Future

-- B y   N i c h o l a s   J o h n s t o n   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 
2011-04-16T10:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/obama-republicans-trade-criticisms-over-nation-s-fiscal-future.html
U.S. President  Barack Obama  and
congressional Republicans traded attacks over the nation’s
fiscal future, a day after Obama’s signature on this fiscal
year’s final spending bill ended their first battle.  In his  weekly radio and Internet address  today, Obama
called a Republican proposal to slash government spending over
the next decade “wrong for America,” while in the Republican
address, Senator  Tom Coburn  of  Oklahoma  criticized the president
for politicizing the process.  The strong language on both sides of the debate highlights
the obstacles to a broad bipartisan deal to trim the federal
budget, something Obama acknowledged yesterday would be needed
to pave the way for an increase in the nation’s legal borrowing
limit, projected to be breached as early as mid-May.  “If we don’t act, a rising tide of borrowing will damage
our economy, costing us jobs and risking our future prosperity
by sticking our children with the bill,” Obama said in his
address today. “At the same time, we have to take a balanced
approach to reducing our deficit.”  The president yesterday signed spending legislation that
covers the rest of the 2011 fiscal year. The measure, which was
agreed to just hours before the government’s spending authority
was set to expire April 8, includes $38.5 billion in spending
cuts.  Obama on April 13 laid out a longer-term proposal to reduce
 government spending  by $4 trillion over the next 12 years.  ‘Three Steps Back’  In the  Republican address , Coburn said Obama’s speech was a
campaign-style attack that “took us three steps back.”  “Instead of describing the threat and bringing both sides
together, the president attacked those who have a different
vision of the government,” said Coburn, a member of the Senate
Finance Committee.  Coburn’s rebuke of the president comes as he and five other
senators from both parties seek final agreement on a measure,
based on the plan by the leaders of Obama’s debt commission,
that would trim $3.8 trillion from the federal budget in the
next decade through a mix of spending cuts and tax increases.  The so-called Gang of Six could be ready to propose a plan
during the first week of May, when lawmakers return from a two-
week recess.  “I believe we can live within our means,” Obama said.
“And in the weeks to come, I’ll work with anyone who’s willing
to get it done.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicholas Johnston in Washington at 
 njohnston3@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  