-- 
Oil Prices Will Ease in 2012 on Stimulus Withdrawal, Russia's Kudrin Says

-- B y   H a l i a   P a v l i v a
-- 
2011-04-16T06:00:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/oil-prices-will-ease-in-2012-on-stimulus-withdrawal-russia-s-kudrin-says.html
Russia , the world’s biggest energy
exporter, expects the price of oil shipments to the global
market to start decreasing next year as governments begin to
withdraw stimulus measures, Finance Minister Alexei Kudrin said.  Urals, the nation’s major export oil blend, will stay above
$90 a barrel for 12 months to 18 months, Kudrin told a press
briefing in  Washington , D.C., yesterday. The price will probably
fall to $60 a barrel in the next two years and stay at that
level for about six months, he said, reiterating a forecast he
made a year ago.  “With oil prices above $110 a barrel we are already in the
zone of a slowing global economy,” Kudrin told reporters. “We
expect  oil prices  to begin to decrease next year because
excessive liquidity will be withdrawn from the international
markets.”  Urals, Russia’s benchmark export blend, climbed above $100
a barrel in February as unrest in north  Africa  and the Middle
East disrupted some oil flows. The  International Monetary Fund 
cut its 2011 growth forecasts for the U.S. and  Japan  on April 11,
citing “key downside risks” tied to surging oil prices.  Russia’s budget deficit is expected to be between 1 percent
and 1.4 percent of gross domestic product in 2011, Kudrin said.
Inflation will be at “about 7 percent” in Russia in 2011,
Kudrin also said.  The country will use windfall revenue from energy sales to
replace about 280 billion rubles ($10 billion) of planned
spending from its Reserve Fund, Kudrin said.  Windfall Revenue  The government will use part of the windfall oil revenue to
avoid some of the planned borrowing, Kudrin said. It will borrow
mostly on the domestic market and won’t approve any decisions on
the foreign market for now, he said.  “If we are able to borrow on the domestic market without
rates going significantly higher, we will be borrowing,’’ Kudrin
said. “If not, we can use between $200 million and $400 million,
not more than that, to replace what we had planned to borrow
domestically.’’  Kudrin said he will resign as chairman of the board of ZAO
Alrosa, the world’s biggest diamond miner by output, and as a
chairman of VTB Group, Russia’s second-largest bank.  Medvedev Order  Russian President  Dmitry Medvedev  on April 2 instructed
eight senior government officials, including Deputy Prime
Minister  Igor Sechin , who is chairman of the largest Russian oil
company OAO Rosneft, to quit their jobs at state-owned companies
by July 1. Independent directors should replace them to improve
transparency, the president said.  Russia won’t extend a tax break on oil shipments from the
Vankor field for OAO Rosneft, the country’s biggest oil producer,
Kudrin said. The company has been allowed to pay a reduced fee
on exports of oil from the Vankor field. The measure expires in
May and won’t be prolonged, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Halia Pavliva in Washington at 
 hpavliva@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  