-- 
PepsiCo Says Cut U.S. Taxes on Foreign Profits to Boost Hiring

-- B y   S i m o n   L o m a x
-- 
2011-04-17T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/pepsico-says-cut-u-s-taxes-on-foreign-profits-to-boost-hiring.html
U.S. companies might hire more
workers if the U.S. were to cut the tax rate on cash that
companies bring home from foreign subsidiaries, PepsiCo Inc.
Chief Executive Officer Indra Nooyi said.  Some company profits are “trapped in overseas countries
because the tax rate to bring them back is extremely high,”
Nooyi said in an interview on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS”
program, scheduled for broadcast today. Taxing repatriated cash
at 15 percent, compared to the top corporate rate of 35 percent,
is “a creative way to address unemployment, without adding to
the deficit,” Nooyi said.  President  Barack Obama  and some U.S. lawmakers have
mentioned lower corporate tax rates as they debate how to reduce
the nation’s 8.8 percent unemployment rate while also bringing
down the federal government’s more than $14 trillion debt. In
exchange for lower rates, tax deductions and credits would be
eliminated to raise revenue, according to the proposals.  U.S. companies face the sixth-highest effective tax rate in
the world, according to an April 14 study by
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. The tax rate for the largest U.S.
companies between 2006 and 2009 was 27.7 percent, compared with
a non-U.S. average of 19.5 percent, according to the study.  The U.S. requires companies to pay the top corporate tax
rate on profits earned outside the country, though it allows
companies to defer taxation until they bring the cash home.  Of the revenue raised from repatriated profits taxed at 15
percent, two-thirds could be used by the government for general
purposes, Nooyi said. One-third should be used to set up a
“retraining fund” for workers or “a fund that retrofits
commercial buildings to make them energy efficient,” she said.  To contact the reporter on this story:  Simon Lomax in Washington at 
 slomax@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 