-- 
Prosser Declares Win in Wisconsin Race With Recount Possible

-- B y   M a r k   N i q u e t t e
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/prosser-declares-win-in-wisconsin-race-with-recount-possible.html
Challenger JoAnne Kloppenburg is
deciding whether to seek a recount after Wisconsin  Supreme Court 
Justice David T. Prosser Jr. emerged with a 7,316-vote victory
out of almost 1.5 million cast in a race that became a
referendum on limits on public-employee unions.  The margin will allow Kloppenburg to request a free
statewide recount, and the  Wisconsin Government Accountability
Board  won’t certify the results until that tally is completed or
the April 20 deadline to request one has passed, Michael Haas, a
staff attorney, said in a telephone interview.  Kloppenburg’s campaign will “focus our decision-making on
whether to request a recount,” Melissa Mulliken, her campaign
manager, said in a statement. “We will review the information
available to us and carefully weigh the options.”  Prosser is declaring victory and encouraging Kloppenburg to
accept the results, Brian Nemoir, the judge’s campaign manager,
said in a telephone interview.  “Today, the will of the electorate is clear,” Nemoir said
in a statement. “Justice Prosser hopes that a shared respect
for the judiciary allows the campaign to move to a positive
conclusion.”  Elections officials will certify the results after
reviewing the county-by-county canvass and awaiting the recount
deadline, Kevin J. Kennedy, director and general counsel of the
Accountability Board, said in a statement from Madison.  “That decision is now in the hands of the candidates,”
Kennedy said.  Looking Closer  Under Wisconsin  law , candidates must pay the costs of a
recount if the margin exceeds one-half of 1 percent of the vote,
according to the Government Accountability Board. The final
margin in the April 5 race was 0.488 percent, Haas said.  The April 5 vote had been too close to call, initially
showing that Kloppenburg led by 204 before an elections official
in Waukesha County discovered that votes were omitted from the
reported results. Prosser got more votes based on counties’
post-election canvasses, the state board said.  Kloppenburg’s campaign has requested public records related
to the count in Waukesha County after 14,000 mistallied votes
upended the unofficial result of the statewide ballot. Election
officials are reviewing the county clerk’s processes and
verifying the results, Haas said.  Votes from the city of Brookfield weren’t initially
reported by County Clerk Kathy Nickolaus because of what she
called “human error.”  The state also is reviewing results from 2006 because the
county reported more combined votes for the attorney general
candidates that year than total ballots cast in the election
there, Haas said.  Tilting the Balance  Prosser, 68, appointed to the high court in 1998 by former
Republican Governor Tommy Thompson, served as a Republican for
18 years in the Legislature. He had been seeking a second full
10-year term. Kloppenburg, 57, is an assistant state attorney
general who has given money to Democrats.  The Supreme Court race became a proxy fight over a law
championed by Republican Governor  Scott Walker  that curbs
government unions’ collective bargaining power and prohibits
governments from withholding union dues.  The law was challenged in a court case that may wind up
before the state Supreme Court. Prosser presents himself as “a
judicial conservative” on his website, and often votes in a
bloc with three other members to form a majority, Charles Franklin, a  University of Wisconsin-Madison  political science
professor, has said.  Political groups spent almost $3.6 million on television
ads in the race, according to the Brennan Center for Justice at
 New York University ’s law school. The amount was a state record
for television spending by noncandidate organizations, the
center has said.  To contact the reporter on this story: Mark Niquette in
Columbus, Ohio, at   mniquette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark
Tannenbaum at   mtannen@bloomberg.net  