-- 
S&P 500 Falls a Second Week as Quarterly Reports Miss Estimates

-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-04-16T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/s-p-500-falls-a-second-week-as-quarterly-reports-miss-estimates.html
U.S. stocks fell, giving the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index its second straight weekly decline,
as companies from  Alcoa Inc. (AA)  to  Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  reported quarterly results that missed estimates.  The benchmark gauge rose 0.4 percent yesterday as higher-
than-forecast data on  consumer confidence  and manufacturing
bolstered optimism about the economy. Alcoa dropped the most in
the  Dow Jones Industrial Average  this week, tumbling 7.8
percent. Google lost 8.2 percent, while Bank of America declined
4.9 percent.  Tyco International Ltd. (TYC)  surged 9.7 percent after
Bloomberg News reported Schneider Electric SA has been working
with bankers to explore a possible bid.  The S&P 500 declined 0.6 percent to 1,319.68 this week. The
index has fallen 1 percent since April 1. The Dow average
retreated 38.22 points, or 0.3 percent, to 12,341.83 this week.  “It’s going to be a scattered picture when you look from
company to company,” said James Dunigan, chief investment
officer in Philadelphia for PNC Wealth Management, which
oversees $108 billion. “It’s not that it will be a bad earnings
season. It’s just that we’re going to have more disappointments
based upon what the last couple of quarters were. That doesn’t
change my view on the fact that the economic recovery is
sustainable.”  S&P 500 ’s Gain  The S&P 500 has risen 4.9 percent in 2011. While total
income for the index has topped the average analyst projection
for eight straight quarters, the proportion of companies beating
forecasts has fallen three straight quarters, the longest streak
since 2000, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Among the
11 reports this week, profit trailed the average forecast by 3.5
percent, the data show.  The benchmark gauge for U.S. equities rose during the last
three trading days as reports showed sales at U.S. retailers
rose in March for a ninth consecutive month and industrial
production increased more than forecast. Confidence among U.S.
consumers climbed in April from a 16-month low. Stocks also rose
over that period as the House approved a spending bill that will
avert a U.S. government shutdown.  The index, which has gained as much as 99 percent since
March 2009, this month rose to near the highest closing level
for the rally, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The S&P
500 advanced to 1,335.54 on April 6, or 7.47 points below the
high on Feb. 18.  ‘Pretty Generous’  “This market had a pretty generous run,” said  Keith Wirtz , who helps oversee $18 billion as chief investment officer
for Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati. “We’re coming
into earnings season. The simple math suggests that comparisons
are going to be tougher year over year. Any kind of pullback in
stocks could be an opportunity to restructure portfolios.
There’s nothing that suggests that this  bull market  is over.”  Alcoa slumped 7.8 percent to $16.52. The largest U.S.
aluminum producer reported first-quarter sales that missed
analysts’ estimates as the dollar weakened. The company’s sales
of $5.96 billion compared with the average forecast of $6.06
billion, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Google tumbled 8.2 percent to $530.70. A first-quarter
hiring binge and increased marketing led to the biggest jump in
operating expenses in three years at the operator of the world’s
biggest Interest search engine.  Bank of America dropped 4.9 percent to $12.82. The largest
U.S. lender by assets reported first-quarter profit excluding
some items of 17 cents a share, missing the average analyst
estimate by 35 percent.  Tyco, Schneider  Tyco International rallied 9.7 percent to $51.70.
Schneider, a French maker of electrical components, held
preliminary talks after approaching Tyco earlier this year, said
three people with knowledge of the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. Schneider hasn’t
ruled out pursuing Tyco, another person said.  Schneider said that it was “not currently” in talks with
Tyco, and Anthime Caprioli, a spokesman for Schneider, declined
to comment further.  Quarterly reports scheduled for next week include  Citigroup
Inc. (C) ,  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Wells Fargo & Co.  Intel
Corp. (INTC) , the world’s biggest chipmaker,  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD) , the
world’s biggest restaurant chain, and  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , the world’s largest computer-services provider,
are also due to report.  Home sales and construction probably rose in March to
recover less than half the prior month’s declines, reflecting a
market struggling to regain its footing nearly two years into
the economic recovery, economists said before reports next week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  