-- 
Wembley-Bound Soccer Fans Contend With Travel Chaos as M1 Motorway Closed

-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 
2011-04-16T12:14:44Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/soccer-fans-face-travel-chaos-as-blaze-shuts-u-k-s-m1-motorway.html
Sports fans heading to  London  faced
“significant” delays as the M1 motorway remained closed
following a fire at a scrap yard beneath Britain’s main north-
south road link, the  Highways Agency  said.  The motorway is shut along an eight-mile stretch in both
directions between junctions one and four on the northern
outskirts of the U.K. capital, the agency said today. It advised
drivers to seek alternatives travel routes into London, which is
hosting two F.A. Cup soccer semi-finals and the  London Marathon .  Tens of thousands of  Manchester City  and Manchester United
soccer fans are heading from north west  England  to London today
for an F.A. Cup semi-final at Wembley Stadium, in the northwest
of the capital. The city’s annual marathon race is being held
tomorrow, drawing runners from across the country.  “London Fire Brigade has allowed the Highways Agency
access to the site which we have cleared to enable us to assess
the extent of the damage to the structure,” the agency said in
a statement today. “This will take several hours. Depending on
the results of the investigation we will open the M1 as far as
it is safe to do so.”  The stretch of the M1 has been closed since early yesterday
when about 40 firefighters tackled the blaze at the scrap yard
near Mill Hill. About 50 people living near the site were
evacuated as a precaution and train lines close to the area were
also shut, the Press Association reported.  The Highways Agency has said it aims to have one northbound
lane open by the time today’s game at Wembley finishes, though
the southbound section of motorway will remain shut.  The match between the two Manchester clubs is scheduled to
kick off at 5:15 p.m. today. The second semi-final, between
Bolton Wanders and Stoke, will be held at Wembley tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Rothwell in London at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  