-- 
Syria Moves to Meet Protest Demands as Libyan Rebels Await Arms Supplies

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n
-- 
2011-04-16T23:07:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/syria-s-assad-sets-deadline-for-reforms-as-libya-s-rebels-await-armament.html
Syrian President Bashar al-Assad
told his newly appointed cabinet that plans to lift the
country’s 48-year-old state of emergency must be completed next
week while in Libya rebels said they expected to receive heavy
weapons in their battle to overthrow  Muammar Qaddafi .  “We have to meet the daily needs of our people within our
capabilities,” Assad said in remarks broadcast yesterday by
state television during the first meeting of the cabinet.
Syrians need to be protected from government actions against
them, he said.  Lifting the emergency law, which has suspended most
constitutional protections for Syrians since 1963, has been a
key demand during protests that spread across Syria after
popular uprisings toppled the leaders of Egypt and  Tunisia . New
York-based  Human Rights Watch  says at least 130 people have been
killed as Assad’s regime has cracked down on demonstrators. The
government has blamed the unrest on foreign-led conspirators who
it says have exploited protests.  Fighting continued in  Libya , where the rebels expect to
receive heavy weapons from outside the country. “God willing,
heavy weapons will be received soon and we will take you to see
them,” a spokesman for the rebels’ National Transitional
Council, Abdul Hafiz Ghoga, said yesterday, declining to name
any source of supply.  Misrata Shelling  Forces loyal to Qaddafi shelled Libya’s coastal city of
Misrata, the main rebel-held city in the west and Libya’s third-
largest, Ghoga said.  Qaddafi’s forces have fired on residential areas with
rockets and cluster bombs, which scatter small bomblets over a
wide area, the New York Times and Human Rights Watch reported.  Rebels have struggled for weeks to take and hold cities in
central Libya, which have been the focus of most of the fighting
since the uprising began in February. Opposition forces
yesterday advanced once again on the oil town of Brega after
four days of airstrikes by the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization in a campaign to protect civilians, Al Jazeera
television reported.  Rebels in the eastern stronghold of Benghazi are shipping
food, medical supplies and weapons, including anti-tank rounds
seized from Libyan army depots, to their fellow fighters in
Misrata, McClatchy Newspapers reported from Benghazi.  Qaddafi Exile  The Obama administration is seeking a place of exile for
Qaddafi, possibly in an African state that hasn’t signed a
treaty that might allow Qaddafi to be turned over to the
 International Criminal Court  in the Hague, the New York Times
 reported  yesterday, citing three unidentified administration
sources.  Tommy Vietor, a spokesman for the U.S. National Security
Council,  said in an e-mail that he didn’t “anticipate any
comment” on the report.  “After 40 years in power, I am not sure Qaddafi’s ready to
live the life of an exile,” said Andrew Terrill, a Middle East
specialist at the Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army
War College in Carlisle,  Pennsylvania . “Any country he goes to
may be subject to Western pressure, and probably he assumes that
once he got to that African country he’d be defenseless.”  Anthony Cordesman , an analyst at the Center for Strategic
and International Studies in  Washington , said “the problem we
face with Qaddafi and any authoritarian leader today is that any
kind of prosecution is going to produce far more human suffering
than sending leaders into exile.”  The Greater Good  “The problem is the constant tendency to confuse the
niceties of international law with justice,” said Cordesman.
“Justice is concerned for obvious reasons with the greater
good.”  Ali al-Tarhouni, head of economic and oil affairs for the
Libyan Transitional Council, said in an interview in Doha,
Qatar, that his country will be rid of Qaddafi “in a matter of
weeks.” Al-Tarhouni said he is in Qatar seeking funding and
that the rebels’ council is in preliminary talks with
unidentified parties about support.  In  Egypt , where popular protests brought down President
 Hosni Mubarak ’s three-decade rule in February, a court ordered
the dissolution of Mubarak’s former ruling  National Democratic
Party , a measure protesters had demanded in recent weeks.  The court also ruled that the party’s assets should be
liquidated and transferred to the government, Judge Magdy al-
Agati, head of the Supreme Administrative Court, said yesterday
in Cairo. The party had held the majority of seats in the now
defunct parliament. Protesters have also called for members to
be banned from standing in legislative elections in September.  Syrian Funeral  In Syria, more than 10,000 demonstrators took to the
streets yesterday for the funeral of Osama al-Sheikha, a
protester killed as security forces cracked down on dissent in
 Banias  last week, the  Associated Press  reported.  Assad issued a decree on April 15 approving a new
government after the protests intensified. Besides Safar,
Foreign Minister Walid al-Muallem and Energy Minister Sufian Alao kept their positions. The Syrian president had promised to
remove a state of emergency in place since 1963 and end
restrictions on political and media freedoms.  “Some people believe that lifting the emergency law will
destabilize the country,” Assad said yesterday. “I believe, on
the contrary, that lifting this law will boost stability.”  The government needs to do more to tackle corruption and
reduce unemployment, which is  Syria ’s “biggest problem,” Assad
said in his televised address to the cabinet, which is headed by
former agriculture minister Adel Safar.  “This is something Middle East autocrats do, appoint
somebody to be a lightning rod for things that go wrong,” said
Terrill, referring to the new cabinet. “The problem for Assad
is that those kinds of tricks might have worked a year ago but
the demonstrators won’t fall for them now.”  Assad’s Legacy  Assad is stymied by his legacy, said Terrill, and the
assumption that if he cedes any power, he will let loose a
thirst for ethnic revenge.  “He is the leader of the Allawi community and he is
terribly afraid that if they are no longer on top there could be
a terrible vengeance against their community to pay for all the
terrible repression that occurred during his reign and his
father’s reign,” said Terrill.  Assad became Syria’s president in 2000 at the death of his
father Hafez al-Assad, who had ruled the country from 1971 to
2000.  “My final advice to the government is to be humble with the
people,” Assad said yesterday. “The value of an official is
measured by the satisfaction of citizens.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
To contact the reporters on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net ;
Peter S. Green in new York at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net  