-- 
Treasury Note Yields Drop Most in 11 Months on Europe, Cooling Inflation

-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-04-16T04:00:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/u-s-yields-fall-most-in-11-months-on-europe-cooling-inflation.html
Treasuries gained, pushing 2- and
10-year yields down the most in 11 months, as U.S. inflation
cooled, speculation rose that Europe’s debt crisis is worsening
and stocks and commodities dropped on a loss of risk appetite.  U.S. notes rose for the first week in a month as President
 Barack Obama  pledged to cut the deficit by $4 trillion within 12
years. Ireland’s debt rating was lowered by Moody’s Investors
Service, spurring demand for safety. The U.S. sold $66 billion
in notes and bonds, and the  Federal Reserve  will buy as much as
$11.5 billion of Treasuries next week in a plan to spur growth.  “Inflation fears have been put to rest for the time being,
and the market was able to digest the supply relatively well,
which eased the market’s fear,” said Larry Milstein, managing
director in New York of government and agency debt trading at
R.W. Pressprich & Co., a fixed-income broker and dealer for
institutional investors. “Now that concerns about  Europe  are
back, it has helped depress yields further.”  Yields on 10-year notes dropped 17 basis points, or 0.17
percentage point, to 3.41 percent in New York, from 3.58 percent
on April 8, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It was
the biggest drop since May 21, 2010. The price of the 3.625
percent security due in February 2021 climbed 1 13/32, or $14.06
per $1,000 face amount, to 101 25/32.  Two-year note yields fell 11 basis points, the most since
May 7, 2010, to 0.69 percent. Thirty-year bond yields slid 17
basis points, the biggest drop since Feb. 25, to 4.47 percent.  Stocks, Commodities  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.6 percent, while
the Thomson Reuters/Jefferies CRB Index of raw materials
retreated 1.6 percent in its first five-day loss since March 18.
Crude oil for May delivery also fell for the first week in a
month, declining 2.8 percent to $109.66 a barrel in  New York .  A gauge of inflation expectations that the Fed uses to help
determine monetary policy, the five-year, five-year forward
break-even rate, was at 3.1 percentage points, compared with
3.28 percentage points on Dec. 15, a 10-month high. The average
for the past five years is 2.78 percentage points.  The benchmark 10-year note’s real yield, its yield minus
the year-over-year core consumer price index, was 2.27 percent,
compared with a 10-year median of 2.19 percent.  Moody’s downgraded Ireland’s foreign- and local-currency
bond ratings yesterday by two levels to Baa3 from Baa1.  Nouriel Roubini , the economist who predicted the global financial
crisis, said a restructuring of  Greece ’s debt burden is just a
matter of time and  Spain  may soon follow. He spoke at a
conference in Almaty,  Kazakhstan ’s financial center.  Policy Differences  U.S. policy makers aired differences over how to tackle
inflation before a report yesterday showed U.S. consumer prices,
excluding food and fuel, rose less than forecast in March.  Richmond Fed President Jeffrey Lacker and Philadelphia Fed
President  Charles Plosser  indicated they’re more concerned about
prices, with Lacker saying the central bank must tighten credit
before inflation gains speed. Fed Governor Daniel Tarullo said
he sees no sign of inflation spreading more broadly.  Core consumer prices rose 0.1 percent last month, less than
the 0.2 percent forecast, data from the Labor Department showed
in  Washington . The broader consumer-price index increased 0.5
percent for a second month, in line with the median prediction
of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  U.S. producer prices also trailed forecasts last month,
Labor Department data showed on April 14. They increased 0.7
percent, compared with a 1 percent gain estimated in a Bloomberg
News survey and a rise of 1.6 percent in February. Initial
claims for jobless benefits rose last week more than predicted.  ‘Accommodative Policies’  “Some of the more hawkish Fed inflationary commentary will
not lead to any more meaningful debate at the Fed and is giving
more credibility to those advocating accommodative policies,”
said  Ian Lyngen , a government bond strategist at CRT Capital
Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut .  The Fed has kept its benchmark rate at zero to 0.25 percent
since December 2008 to support the economy and is purchasing
$600 billion of Treasuries through June to spur growth.  The Fed  bought  $26.9 billion in Treasuries this week in its
program. It scheduled buys for next week on April 18, 19 and 20.  The government auctioned $66 billion in 3-, 10- and 30-year
debt this week. It will sell $14 billion in 5-year Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities on April 21.  Nomura Holdings Inc. ended a neutral call on Treasuries and
said it’s “time to start buying bonds again” as the end of the
Fed’s debt-buying program looms amid volatile overseas markets.  Back to Treasuries  “Stocks and commodities have benefited more from the Fed’s
easy-money policy,”  George Goncalves , head of interest-rate
strategy at Nomura, one of 20 primary dealers that trade
Treasuries with the Fed, wrote April 14 in a client note. “As
liquidity slows into June 30, we expect  asset allocation  back to
U.S. Treasuries as investors take profits on risk assets.”  Foreign holdings of U.S. government securities increased
for the 22nd consecutive month in February, gaining 0.5 percent
to $4.47 trillion, according to the Treasury Department. Bill
holdings declined for fourth straight month to $432.4 billion,
the least since November 2008.  President Obama’s long-term plan for closing the budget
shortfall through a combination of spending cuts and tax
increases may be a “positive” for the nation’s credit quality
and mark a reversal in the budget debate, according to Moody’s
Investors Service.  “It seems both sides of this debate are now targeting
lower debt and lower deficits,” said  Steven Hess , senior credit
officer, based on Obama’s speech on April 13. “We do see this
as a  turning point  in terms of the debate. We would view that as
a positive, but we’ll have to wait to see the outcome.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robert Burgess at   bburgess@bloomberg.net  