-- 
U.S.’s Geithner Urges More Currency Flexibility: Full Text

-- B y   S c o t t   L a n m a n
-- 
2011-04-16T15:32:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/u-s-s-geithner-urges-more-currency-flexibility-full-text.html
Following is the text of a
statement from U.S. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner
released today:  *STATEMENT BY SECRETARY TIM GEITHNER AT THE INTERNATIONAL
MONETARY AND FINANCIAL COMMITTEE (IMFC) MEETING*  The IMF projects that the world economy will grow at about four
and a half percent in 2011, but the world still faces very
significant economic policy challenges.  Oil prices  have risen, driven by political developments in the
Middle East and North Africa, rapidly rising demand in emerging
markets, and a muted supply response. In the near-term, spare
capacity is sufficient to meet any disruption in supply. In the
longer term, we must create better incentives for  energy
efficiency .  Fiscal and banking strains in the euro-area periphery continue
to generate headwinds, and European officials are working to
assist the most affected countries. In the wake of the tragic
events of last month in Japan, we stand ready to do all we can
to help the Japanese people in their reconstruction efforts, and
we have full confidence in the capacity of  Japan  to address the
additional economic challenges it faces during its difficult
times.  The challenge in emerging economies is to deal with rising
commodity and energy prices--and, for some, volatile capital
flows--in a manner that allows for sustainable growth and does
not exacerbate global imbalances.  For the United States, the outlook has improved substantially
since we last met in October. We are encouraged by signs of
self-sustaining growth in consumer and business spending, along
with a quickened pace of hiring in recent months. Yet too many
Americans are not yet back to work, and many are still
struggling due to losses in their savings and the value of their
homes.  We must now work to deepen the recovery at home and to ensure
that the  U.S. economy  is a source of dynamism and stability over
time. The Administration is charting a course to achieve these
ends. We are working to improve the long-term competitiveness of
our economy through targeted investments in education, research
and development, and infrastructure. And we are committed to
fiscal reforms that will restrain spending and reduce deficits
while not threatening the economic recovery.  This week, the President proposed a comprehensive fiscal
framework that would reduce deficits to two and a half percent
of GDP in 2015 and put the nation’s debt-to-GDP ratio on a
declining path toward the end of this decade. The President’s
framework represents a balanced approach to  deficit reduction ,
with three dollars of spending cuts and interest savings for
every one dollar from  tax reform . It would be backed by a debt
failsafe that would trigger across-the-board spending reductions
if public debt as a share of the economy is projected in 2014 to
not be stabilized and declining by the end of the decade.  Even as we make progress on this pressing work at home, we must
continue to collaborate with our partners abroad to place the
global economy on a more stable and resilient foundation.  Since the annual meetings in October 2010, we have made
significant progress on reforms to the international financial
architecture. We bolstered available IMF resources through
ratification of the 2008 quota reform, activation of the New
Arrangements to Borrow, and an agreement to further double
quotas. We also secured significant reform of the Fund’s
governance structure and voting rights in order to better
reflect today’s global economy and enhance the Fund’s legitimacy
and effectiveness going forward. And the expansion of the global
financial safety net with the introduction of the Flexible
Credit Line and Precautionary Credit Line has served to bolster
resilience against future crises.  We welcome the progress in the G-20 in developing indicative
guidelines to reduce excessive imbalances and maintain current
account balances at sustainable levels. The IMF contributes
critical analytical and policy advice to this process. The
 United States  will do its part to address our external deficit
and repair our public finances, which is all the more important
given our role in the international monetary system. And we
welcome continued IMF surveillance of our fiscal and monetary
policies. However, others, especially those whose fundamentals
call for greater exchange rate flexibility, must also
contribute.  The IMF also needs to take a stronger role in fulfilling its
surveillance responsibilities with regard to exchange rates,
reserve accumulation, and capital flows.  The current system of exchange rates is an obstacle to effective
international cooperation on imbalances. On the one hand, most
advanced and emerging market economies operate largely flexible
exchange rate regimes with open capital accounts. On the other,
a few emerging markets run tightly managed currency regimes,
deploying extensive  capital controls  and accumulating excess
reserves well beyond precautionary levels. This asymmetry
magnifies capital flows into emerging markets with open capital
accounts, heightening upward pressure on exchange rates that are
flexible and fueling inflation in economies with managed,
undervalued exchange rates. Facilitating rebalancing requires
broad consensus that major economies--advanced and emerging--
need to allow their exchange rates to adjust in response to
market forces.  The IMF has the capacity and responsibility to play a critical
role in solving this problem and should do so by significantly
strengthening its surveillance. The Fund has the requisite tools
within the existing framework of the IMF Articles of Agreement--
but they have not been sufficiently utilized, as suggested by
the IMF’s Independent Evaluation Office.  Stepped-up surveillance should include greater independence to
publish IMF analysis, such as the Fund’s estimates of
equilibrium exchange rates, recommendations for how to preempt
the emergence of large imbalances, and advice on the appropriate
use of prudential tools.  The Fund’s recently proposed framework to provide coherent and
transparent advice to members on managing capital inflows is a
good start. We agree with the guidelines’ articulation of a
hierarchy of policy measures to be employed in the face of
inflows before turning to capital controls as a temporary and
inefficient last resort. The Fund could increase capital account
coverage in its bilateral and multilateral surveillance and
build consensus on a framework for managing capital inflows that
would inform Article IV consultations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Lanman in  Washington  at 
 slanman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  