-- 
Ukraine Gets Russian Gas Discount for Chemicals, Azarov Says

-- B y   R e g i n a   T a n   a n d   D a r y n a   K r a s n o l u t s k a
-- 
2011-04-16T16:16:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/ukraine-receives-russian-natural-gas-discount-for-chemicals-azarov-says.html
Russia  agreed to supply natural-gas
for Ukrainian chemical producers at a discount, Ukrainian Prime
Minister  Mykola Azarov  said.  The countries in February agreed to trade 4 billion cubic
meters of gas, or about a tenth of Ukraine’s annual imports, for
$170 per thousand cubic meters this year, Azarov said today in
an interview in Sanya,  China . Ukraine’s price for the fuel rose
to $293 from $264 last quarter. As the cost follows that of
crude oil, it may climb to as much as $347 in the fourth
quarter, the government estimated last month.  Russian gas shipments to  Europe  through Ukraine halted for
two weeks in 2009 before then-Premier Yulia Tymoshenko signed a
10-year contract with Russia. Last April, Russia agreed to
reduce the price it charges Ukraine in exchange for the
extension of a lease on a Black Sea naval base. Azarov today
reiterated that he wants to review the accords.  "Germany and  Poland  import Russian gas for $330 and $320
respectively," he said. "If you take into account distance, the
price offered to Ukraine should be about $200 per 1,000 cubic
meters."  The discount price will affect companies including AT Azot,
purchased by Ukrainian billionaire Dmitry Firtash last month.
Firtash also has a 50 percent stake in gas trader RosUkrEnergo
AG, which was the country’s sole importer of the fuel from 2006
to 2009. Russian gas monopoly OAO Gazprom has the other 50
percent in the company.  Economic Rebound  Ukraine’s economy shrank by almost 15 percent in 2009 as
the global financial crisis cut demand for its exports including
metals and chemicals. Gross domestic product rebounded last
year, growing 4.2 percent and will probably expand 5 percent in
2011, Azarov said. The biggest problem for Ukraine is the
stability of export markets, Azarov said.  "It comes down to stability of demand and prices for
Ukraine exports," he said. "It comes down to the stability of
oil and gas prices, and food prices."  The government seeks to cut the  budget deficit  to about 3
percent of GDP this year from 7.2 percent in 2010 and aims to
keep inflation below 10 percent, he said.  Azarov said he supports creating of a so-called grain pool
with Russia and  Kazakhstan . Russia banned grain exports this
marketing year, while Ukraine imposed quotas after drought
damaged crops last summer.  "Together with Russia and Kazakhstan, we have 30 percent of
the world’s grain market and we shouldn’t be rivals," Azarov
said. "It is better to agree on prices and the conditions of
grain trading."  To contact the reporters on this story:
Regina Tan in Beijing at 
 rtan87@bloomberg.net ;
Daryna Krasnolutska in Kiev at 
 dkrasnolutsk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Gregory Turk at 
 gturk2@bloomberg.net  