-- 
Hungarians Rally in Budapest Against Pension Steps, Constitution

-- B y   E d i t h   B a l a z s
-- 
2011-04-16T15:39:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/hungarians-rally-in-budapest-against-pension-steps-constitution.html
Thousands of Hungarian firemen,
police officers and soldiers protested in Budapest today against
government plans to scrap the early retirement system for law-
and-order officials.  About 15,000 people gathered in central Budapest and
marched to parliament,  MTI  news service reported, citing
organizers. Protesters demanded the government maintain the
possibility for those employees to retire at an earlier age.  Demonstrators threw smoke grenades and opened up fire
hydrants as they marched through downtown Budapest. The rallies
will continue until the government revokes the planned measures,
organizers said.  In a separate protest, civilians called on the government
to move away from plans to approve a new constitution, which
they claim curbs democratic rights.  The cabinet of Prime Minister  Viktor Orban , seeking to
narrow the  budget deficit  and cut the country’s debt level, has
announced measures to scrap the system of early retirement and
tighten disability pension rules. The ruling coalition of Fidesz
and the  Christian Democrats  is also scheduled to pass a new
constitution on April 18 without the participation of the
parliamentary opposition, which claims the new law eliminates
democratic checks and balances and concentrates power in the
hands of the government.  Several thousand civilians rallied against the constitution
at a demonstration organized by the Democratic Charter, a
platform founded by former Prime Minister  Ferenc Gyurcsany .  Opposition parties and civil groups have announced plans to
hold demonstrations tomorrow and April 18 throughout the city to
protest against the new constitution.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edith Balazs in Budapest at 
 ebalazs1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Gomez at   jagomez@bloomberg.net  