-- 
Warner Music Group Said to Narrow Suitor List to Gores, Burkle, Blavatnik

-- B y   J o n   E r l i c h m a n   a n d   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 
2011-04-16T04:00:08Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/warner-music-group-said-to-narrow-suitor-list-to-gores-burkle-blavatnik.html
Warner Music Group Corp. (WMG) , the music
company that put itself up for sale in January, narrowed the
list of bidders to three, according to two people with knowledge
of the deliberations.  Ron Burkle ’s Yucaipa Cos., Len Blavatnik’s Access
Industries Holdings and billionaire brothers Tom and Alec Gores
are competing for the deal, said one the people, who asked for
anonymity because the talks are private. More bidders may be let
in later, the person said.  The remaining suitors each offered $3 billion or more for
 Warner Music ’s recorded music and publishing assets, said one of
the people. A final decision may be made within four weeks, one
of them said. The New York-based company, which had originally
planned to sell its music-publishing unit and bid for EMI Group
Ltd., hired  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  in January and drew more
than 10 bids for all or parts of its businesses.  The Wall Street Journal reported on April 13 that the
Warner Music’s board will pursue the sale of the entire company,
rather than in parts.  Amanda Collins, a spokeswoman for Warner Music, declined
to comment. Eight of the company’s 13 directors are executives
of Thomas H. Lee Partners LP and Bain Capital LLC, two Boston-
based private-equity firms that together hold 51 percent of the
company’s shares. Edgar Bronfman Jr., who holds about 7 percent,
is chairman and chief executive officer.  Warner Music, whose artists include Cee Lo Green and The
Black Keys, fell 4 cents to $7.43 yesterday in New York Stock
Exchange composite trading. The shares have climbed 32 percent
this year.  Michael Sitrick, a spokesman for Blavatnik, declined to
comment. Blavatnik is a former director of Warner Music.  Brothers Bid  Frank Stefanik, a press contact for Alec Gores, declined to
comment. His Los Angeles-based private-equity firm Gores Group
made an unsolicited offer for  CKX Inc. (CKXE) , an owner of “ American
Idol ,” a person with knowledge of the bid said on April 1.  Alec Gores is teamed with Tom Gores, who runs  Beverly
Hills , California-based Platinum Equity LLC and last week agreed
to buy the  National Basketball Association ’s Detroit Pistons.
Mark Barnhill, a spokesman for Platinum Equity, didn’t
immediately respond to requests for comment.  Frank Quintero, a spokesman for billionaire Burkle’s Los
Angeles-based Yucaipa, didn’t immediately return messages
seeking comment.  BMG Rights Management GmbH, the Berlin-based music
publisher controlled by KKR & Co., made an offer for all of
Warner Music, people with knowledge with the discussions said in
March. Tamares Group, led by Finnish-born Poju Zabludowicz, also
bid for the entire company, the Financial Times and others have
reported.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Erlichman in  Los Angeles  at 
 jerlichman1@bloomberg.net ;
Andy Fixmer in Los Angeles at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  