-- 
Wigan Beats Blackpool 3-1 to Move Out of Premier League Relegation Zone

-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 
2011-04-16T17:27:40Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/wigan-beats-blackpool-3-1-to-move-out-of-premier-league-relegation-zone.html
Wigan won 3-1 at Blackpool to move
out of the relegation places in English soccer’s Premier League
and place their opposition in the drop zone.  First-half goals from Hugo Rodallega and  Charles N’Zogbia 
at Bloomfield Road helped Wigan jump from last in the 20-team
league up to 17th place, but the defeat places Blackpool in
18th. The three teams at the bottom of the standings drop to the
second division at the end of the season.  “The performance from the players was very, very good,”
Wigan manager Roberto Martinez told  Sky Sports . “I couldn’t be
prouder of the players.”  Aston Villa won 2-1 at West Ham, Birmingham beat Sunderland
2-0 to improve their chances of staying in the top flight,
Chelsea came from behind to win 3-1 at West Brom and Everton
beat Blackburn 2-0.  Wigan won for just the third time in 16 away matches to
climb off the bottom of the standings and drop Blackpool,
promoted at the end of last season, into the relegation zone.  Rodallega scored after three minutes with a shot through
the legs of goalkeeper Matt Gilks and N’Zogbia added a goal in
first-half stoppage time. Wigan’s lead increased to 3-0 on an
own goal from Neil Eardley in the second half before D.J.
Campbell scored for Blackpool, which is winless in six games.  Wigan now has 34 points, one more than Blackpool. West Ham
and Wolverhampton have 32 points, with Wolves last because of a
worse goal difference than the Hammers.  Relegation  Gabriel Agbonlahor’s goal in second-half stoppage time gave
Villa the win at West Ham and lifted it five spots to ninth
place, seven points clear of relegation.  Darren Bent  also scored
for Villa while  Robbie Keane  netted for West Ham.  Sebastian Larsson and Craig Gardner scored as Birmingham
extended Sunderland’s winless run to nine games. The Blues move
up two spots to 14th place above Sunderland on goal difference,
with both teams on 38 points.  Didier Drogba , Salomon Kalou and  Frank Lampard  scored as
Chelsea beat West Brom for the 12th straight time.  Peter
Odemwingie  scored his 12th Premier League goal of the season to
set a West Brom club record. It was West Brom’s first loss in
seven matches since manager  Roy Hodgson  took over in February.  Chelsea are now within a point of second-place Arsenal,
which hosts Liverpool tomorrow.  Leon Osman and  Leighton Baines  scored second-half goals in
Everton’s win. Blackburn is winless in nine games and stays two
points above the relegation zone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  