-- 
World's Poor ‘One Shock’ From Crisis as Food Prices Climb, Zoellick Says

-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n
-- 
2011-04-16T23:49:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-16/zoellick-says-world-economy-one-shock-away-from-food-crisis-1-.html
World Bank  President Robert Zoellick said the global economy is “one shock away” from a
crisis in food supplies and prices.  Zoellick estimated 44 million people have fallen into
poverty due to rising food prices in the past year, and a 10
percent increase in the food price index would send 10 million
more people into poverty. The United Nations FAO Food Price
index jumped 25 percent last year, the second-steepest increase
since at least 1991, and surged to a record in February.  Food price inflation is “the biggest threat today to the
world’s poor,” Zoellick said at a press conference
following meetings of the World Bank and the  International
Monetary Fund . “We are one shock away from a full-blown
crisis.”  “For most commodities, stocks are relatively low,” he
said. “You have one other weather event in some of these areas
and you really take a danger zone and start to push people over
the edge.”  Zoellick said he opposes export bans that nations use to
depress local commodity prices for their citizens, lifting costs
for consumers in other countries.  Farmers in  Russia , once the second-biggest wheat exporter,
are planting the fewest acres in four years, in part because a
government export ban kept prices low, a Bloomberg survey of
producers, traders and analysts showed last month.  India , the
largest grower after  China , is mulling lifting an export ban in
place since 2007 as harvests may reach a record for a fourth
straight year, Agriculture Minister  Sharad Pawar  said this month.  Economic growth “is leveling off after a post-crisis
recovery,” Zoellick said. “The question now is whether it’s
strong enough to reduce unemployment, particularly in developed
countries. Inflation is up in developing countries, and this
could lead to overheating or asset price bubbles.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eric Martin in Washington at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  