-- Asian Stocks Rise as U.S. Economic Reports Overshadow Europe Debt Concerns
-- B y   K a n a   N i s h i z a w a   a n d   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 2011-12-24T01:29:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/asia-stocks-gain-this-week-as-u-s-economic-data-boost-optimism.html
Asian stocks rose this week for the
first time in three, as a series of positive U.S. economic data
boosted optimism in the world’s largest economy and eased
concern  Europe ’s debt crisis will erode global demand.  James Hardie Industries SE (JHX) , a building-materials supplier
the counts the U.S. as its largest market, climbed 6.8 percent
in Sydney. Honda Motor Co., a Japanese carmaker that gets more
than 80 percent of its sales abroad, increased 2.8 percent in
 Tokyo . Gloucester Coal Ltd., an Australian coal explorer, surged
21 percent after  China ’s Yanzhou Coal Mining Co. agreed to buy
the company.  HTC (2498)  Corp., a smartphone maker, jumped 17 percent in
Taipei after saying it plans to buy back shares.  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index rose 1.1 percent this week,
erasing its drop at the week-start on news North Korean leader
Kim Jong Il has died. The gauge tumbled 17 percent this year
amid concern Europe’s debt crisis will slow global economic
growth.  Stocks (MXAP)  in the index were valued at 12.69 times estimated
earnings on average, compared with 12.80 times for the S&P 500,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The U.S. is showing it’s fairly robust in terms of not
being dragged down to the extent of European economies,” said
 Tim Schroeders , who helps manage $1 billion in equities at
Pengana Capital Ltd. in  Melbourne . “The question is, given we
are coming into a holiday period, how sustainable those gains
are going to be over the next week or so.”  Utilities posted the biggest decline among the 10 industry
groups in the Asia-Pacific gauge this year as Japanese
electricity generators tumbled after meltdowns at Tokyo Electric
Power Co.’s Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant. Tepco, as the company is
known, fell 3.1 percent this week, extending its 2011 rout to 89
percent.  Steel Producer’s Decline  OneSteel Ltd., an Australian producer of the industrial
metal, is the second-worst performer. The company extended its
year-to-date loss to 71 percent this week as South Korea’s
 Posco (005490) , the world’s third-biggest steelmaker, denied a MoneyToday
report it’s seeking to acquire OneSteel.  South Korea’s Kospi Index ended 1.5 percent higher this
week, even after plunging as much as 4.9 percent on Dec. 19 amid
concern Kim’s death would lead to instability in the region.
Japan’s  Nikkei 225 Stock Average (NKY)  slid 0.1 percent, unable to
recover from its earlier drop with a trading day cut short for a
public holiday.  Hong Kong ’s  Hang Seng Index (HSI)  added 1.9 percent and
 Singapore ’s Straits Times Index rose 0.7 percent. Taiwan’s Taiex
Index jumped 4.8 percent after its Vice Premier Sean Chen said
the National Stabilization Fund will buy stocks to support local
markets when necessary. The Shanghai Composite Index slipped 0.9
percent, while Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 fell 0.5 percent.  Holiday Closures  Hong Kong and Australian markets will be shut on Dec. 26
and Dec. 27. Singapore’s market will be closed on Dec. 26, while
South Korea won’t be trading on Dec. 30.  James Hardie rose 6.8 percent to A$6.96 in Sydney. Honda
gained 2.8 percent to 2,325 yen, while  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ,
South Korea’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics,
increased 2.2 percent in  Seoul .  In the U.S., a report on Dec. 20 showed builders broke
ground in November on 685,000 houses, the most since April 2010
and exceeding the highest estimate of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The number of U.S. applications for  unemployment 
benefits unexpectedly dropped last week to the lowest since
April 2008, a report showed on Dec. 22.  Confidence among U.S. consumers rose more than forecast in
December to a six-month high, according to the Thomson
Reuters/University of Michigan sentiment index. A gauge of U.S.
leading indicators climbed more than estimated in November, a
sign that the economy will keep growing in 2012.  ‘Positive Contrast’  “The U.S. economic outlook is getting brighter, and you
get a sense that the economy is recovering gradually,” said
 Hiroichi Nishi , an equities manager in Tokyo at SMBC Nikko
Securities Inc. “An improvement in the German economy is also a
positive contrast to the bleak situation in Europe.”  Concern about Europe’s debt crisis also eased after a
report on Dec. 20 showed German  business confidence  unexpectedly
rose for a second month in December. The Munich-based Ifo
institute’s  business climate index , based on a survey of 7,000
executives, climbed to 107.2 from 106.6 in November. The median
estimate of 36 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News was for a
drop to 106.  Spanish bill sales also boosted confidence in the euro
region. The country sold 5.64 billion euros ($7.40 billion) of
bills on Dec. 20, more than the maximum target, and yields fell
as the  European Central Bank  prepared to start offering banks
unlimited three-year loans.  Takeover Bid  Gloucester (GCL)  surged 21 percent to A$8.55 in Sydney this week,
after trading was suspended for three days. Yanzhou Coal,
China’s fourth-biggest coal producer, agreed to buy the company
for about A$2.1 billion ($2.1 billion) in cash and shares to
gain more mines and port access in Australia.  Yanzhou Coal, whose shares were also suspended for three
days, rose 3.3 percent in Hong Kong. Commodity trader  Noble
Group Ltd. (NOBL) , which controls Gloucester, closed unchanged at
S$1.19 yesterday in Singapore.  HTC surged 17 percent to NT$513 in Taipei after saying it
plans to buy back 10 million common shares, 1.16 percent of its
outstanding stock, from open market. The shares also gained
after its Chief Executive Officer Peter Chou said the company
will work around a U.S. agency ruling that found a user
interface in some handsets infringed an Apple Inc. patent.  Billabong Wipes Out  Among stocks that fell this week,  Billabong International
Ltd. (BBG) , an Australian surfwear maker, plunged 51 percent to A$1.80
in Sydney after saying first-half profit may fall by as much as
26 percent as sales stalled in three key markets, including
Australia, Europe and North America. The forecast comes less
than two months after the company predicted a strong increase in
earnings.  “The U.S. is showing signs of recovery, and investors
think that the worst is over for 2011 and next year will be
better,” said Francis Lun, managing director at Lyncean
Holdings Ltd. “If you have an economic recovery in the U.S. and
Europe, it will benefit Asia because they are the two biggest
export markets for Asia. The risk is that the recovery may be
short lived.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kana Nishizawa in Hong Kong at 
 knishizawa5@bloomberg.net ;
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  