-- Australia’s North Braces as Cyclone Forms Near Darwin on Tracy Anniversary
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2011-12-24T05:15:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/australia-s-north-braces-as-cyclone-forms-near-darwin-on-tracy-anniversary.html
Gale-force winds and heavy rains are
expected to hit Australia’s  Northern Territory  as a tropical low
develops into a cyclone, 37 years after its capital Darwin was
destroyed by a storm, according to the Bureau of Meteorology.  The low pressure system is expected to develop into a
 cyclone  by early tomorrow, the bureau said on its website today.
A cyclone warning is in place for coastal areas from Cape
Fourcroy to Milingimbi, including the Tiwi Islands, Cape Don and
Croker Island, it said.  On Christmas Eve in 1974, Darwin was devastated by Cyclone
Tracy, which killed 71 people and left thousands homeless. The
Northern Territory, home to Uluru, also known as Ayers Rock,
accounts for about 17 percent of Australia’s land mass and about
1.6 percent of the nation’s  population .  Darwin Port Corp. , which
ships livestock and bulk exports, said Dec. 22 it had invoked
the first stage of its cyclone management plan.  The weather system is expected to develop into a category-1
cyclone by early tomorrow and may strengthen into a category-2
storm by 1 a.m. local time on Dec. 26, the bureau said. Gales
with gusts of up to 110 kilometers (68 miles) an hour are
expected to develop between Cape Fourcroy, on Bathurst Island,
and Milingimbi, about 400 kilometers east of Darwin.  Australia ’s northern region has a 60 percent chance of
having more than the long-term  average  of two or three cyclones
during the 2011-2012 season, the weather bureau said Oct. 17.
Australia’s cyclone season runs from Nov. 1 to April 30,
according to the bureau.  A cyclone’s severity ranges from category 1, the weakest,
to category 5, the strongest.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  