-- Canada Dollar Reaches Strongest in Three Weeks on North American Recovery
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2011-12-24T05:06:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/canada-dollar-gains-most-in-3-weeks-on-north-american-recovery.html
Canada ’s dollar had its biggest gain
in three weeks as economic reports in the nation and the U.S.,
its largest trading partner, signaled a recovery may be gaining
momentum.  The currency rose against most of its major counterparts,
excluding  South Africa ’s rand, as stronger-than-expected data
outweighed climbing yields on European sovereign debt. Canada’s
dollar was buoyed as crude oil, its biggest export, advanced the
most in three weeks and stocks rallied to erase their 2011
losses. The nation added jobs in December for the first time in
three months, according to a Bloomberg survey.  “While we don’t think it will be over the top, we do think
that growth will be very moderate in the U.S. and will
definitely spill over to positive Canada news,” said C.J.
Gavsie, managing director for foreign-exchange trading at Bank
of Montreal in Toronto.  The loonie, as the currency is known for the image of the
aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, rose 1.7 percent to C$1.0206 per
 U.S. dollar  in the largest weekly advance since the five days
ended Dec. 2. The advance follows a 2.1 percent weekly loss. One
Canadian dollar buys 97.98 U.S. cents.  Gavsie said he expects the Canadian dollar to trade at
C$1.06 through the first half of the year as the continuation of
the European debt crisis weighs on broad risk sentiment.  ‘Great Week’  The currency rose for four consecutive sessions as the
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rallied 3.7 percent this week to
erase its year-to-date losses. The S&P/TSX Composite Index
climbed 2.5 percent, its first advance in three weeks. Crude oil
futures gained 6.5 percent in New York.  “Stocks have had a great week; the Canadian dollar is
following suit,” said  Steve Butler , director of foreign-
exchange trading in Toronto at Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia
Capital unit. “It looks like markets will stay risk-on going
into year-end.”  Movement in the Canadian dollar has been increasingly tied
to equities. The one-month correlation coefficient between the
gauge of U.S. equities and the Canadian dollar reached 0.9348 on
Nov. 14, the strongest relationship since Bloomberg data began
in 1992, versus an average since then of 0.2426. A reading of 1
indicates the measures move in lockstep. The reading was 0.853
yesterday.  Year-to-Date  The Canadian dollar saw the biggest intraday rally of the
month on Dec. 20, rising as much as 1.2 percent as oil rose 3.2
percent and the  consumer price index  gained 2.9 percent in
November from a year earlier, matching the prior month’s
increase.  The loonie is still among the worst performing major
currencies this year and is headed for a 0.2 percent loss this
month versus the greenback on concern a worsening fiscal crisis
in  Europe  and slowing global growth will crimp demand for its
raw materials.  The loonie has depreciated 1.7 percent in 2011, according
to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, a gauge of 10
developed-nation currencies. The greenback has appreciated 1.1
percent, and the yen has added 3.7 percent.  A report showed the number of applications for  unemployment
benefits  in the U.S. dropped last week to the lowest since April
2008 and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan final  index (SPX) 
of consumer sentiment increased to 69.9 in December.  “In terms of 2012, one of the feel-good stories will be
the incremental improvement in the U.S. outlook, and  North
America  as a whole is looking much better than Europe,” said
 Stewart Hall , senior currency strategist at Royal Bank of Canada
in Toronto.  Bond Reaction  Canadian  government bonds  fell, pushing the yield on the
10-year benchmark up 14 basis points, 0.14 percentage point, to
2.01 percent. The 3.25 percent security fell C$1.34 to C$110.61.
The nation’s bonds have returned 9.2 percent this year,
according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch index.  Canadian  wholesale sales  rose 0.9 percent to C$49.2 billion
($48 billion) in October in a sixth straight monthly increase.
Retail sales also climbed.  Canada may add 15,000 jobs in December, after two months of
declines, according to a Bloomberg News economist survey. The
 unemployment rate  is expected to remain at 7.4 percent.
 Statistics Canada  releases the figures on Jan. 6.  Yields on the six-month Canadian overnight index swap, a
security based on what investors expect the central bank’s rate
will average during that period, rose to 0.9XX percent yesterday
from 0.891 percent on Dec. 19, indicating traders are reducing
expectations for interest-rate cuts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  