-- Christchurch Struck by Quake Aftershocks as City Repairs Water, Roads
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2011-12-24T02:03:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/christchurch-struck-by-quake-aftershocks-as-city-repairs-water-roads.html
Aftershocks shook  Christchurch  as
officials seek to reconnect water mains and open roads in time
for Christmas after two earthquakes yesterday damaged buildings
and forced the evacuation of shopping malls and the city’s
airport.  A magnitude 5.0 temblor struck  New Zealand ’s second-largest
city at about 6:37 a.m. today, according to the  U.S. Geological
Survey . The shock was centered about 10 kilometers (6.2 miles)
east of Diamond Harbour and 8 kilometers deep, New Zealand’s
GeoNet reported.  Christchurch, on the nation’s  South Island , is recovering
from a series of earthquakes that began in September last year,
the worst being a magnitude 6.3 temblor that killed 181 people
on Feb. 22. Ten months later, many residents still await
property repairs while businesses have closed or relocated
because of devastation in the central city. Yesterday’s initial
quake was magnitude 5.8 and was followed by aftershocks
including one of magnitude 5.9, according to the USGS.  “By the end of the day, it’s our goal to have the water
supplies back to normal, to have the repairs on the waste water
systems around the city resolved,” Mayor  Bob Parker  told
reporters today. “Our goal is to get those roads open and do
everything we can to enable our people to get what they really
deserve, which is a reasonable Christmas day.”  No fatalities, serious injuries or widespread damage were
reported following yesterday’s shocks, New Zealand police said.
The first temblor was centered 20 kilometers northeast of the
city and 8 kilometers deep, New Zealand’s  GeoNet  reported. The
stronger quake was shallower and closer to the city, it said.  Lyttleton Port Closed  All port services at  Lyttleton Port of Christchurch (LPC) , New
Zealand’s largest coal-exporting hub, are closed until engineers
assess buildings, wharves and paving, the company  said  on its
website. Truck receivals and deliveries are suspended until Dec.
26, it said.  Christchurch Cathedral, which is being partially demolished
after suffering damage in February, was further affected, Roger Sutton, chief executive of the Canterbury  Earthquake Recovery 
Authority, told reporters at a televised news conference
yesterday. Other large buildings in the central business
district don’t appear to be badly affected, he said.  Christchurch International Airport Ltd. re-opened yesterday
with no damage to runways or systems, Chief Executive Officer
Jim Boult said in a statement yesterday. Domestic flights to and
from Christchurch were operating close to normal schedule last
night, according to  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR)   Damage, Electricity  An office building in the eastern suburb of New Brighton
was damaged, and staff were safely evacuated,  police  said
yesterday. Other properties were cordoned off after suffering
damage, and a previously damaged house collapsed, police said.  Fewer than 50 customers are without electricity today,
 Orion  New Zealand Ltd. said on its website.  New Zealand  faces a NZ$20 billion ($15.5 billion) bill to
rebuild homes, roads and commercial buildings in Christchurch
and surrounding towns after earthquakes in the past 15 months.
More than 6,500 homes have been condemned while 900 central city
buildings are being demolished.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  