-- Dollar Declines on Reduced Demand for a Haven in a Decoupling From Europe
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2011-12-24T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/dollar-falls-on-reduced-haven-demand-decoupling-from-europe.html
The dollar  fell (DXY)  for the third week
in the past four on reduced demand for haven assets as U.S.
economic data added to signs that the economy’s expansion may
withstand slowing growth in Europe where leaders seek to address
the region’s debt crisis.  The euro was little changed against the greenback as three-
year bank loans from  European Central Bank  helped ensure funding
for the region’s financial system in 2012.
IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, a gauge of the
U.S. currency against the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, fell 0.2 percent to 79.997 this week as U.S. durable
goods orders rose more than forecast before a private report
projected to show  consumer confidence  increased this month.  “We’re seeing a divergence where euro problems are
becoming euro-centric as opposed to market-wide,” said  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank of  Nova Scotia  in
Toronto. “It’s no longer the domino theory, where what’s
transpiring in Europe is automatically flowing into the Canadian
dollar, the Australian dollar.”  The dollar was little changed at $1.3044 euro in New York
from $1.3046 on Dec. 16. The U.S. currency rose 0.4 percent to
78.09 yen. The euro dropped 0.4 percent to 101.86 yen.  Winners, Losers  South Africa ’s rand has declined 18.7 percent against the
dollar in 2011, the most of the U.S. currency’s major peers,
according to Bloomberg data, followed by  Mexico ’s peso with a
10.8 percent loss. The yen has advanced 3.9 percent for the
largest gain against the greenback.  The euro depreciated 1.4 percent this year against nine
developed-nation counterparts as  Europe ’s crisis intensified,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The dollar has advanced 1.1 percent and the yen has gained 3.8
percent.  The ECB said Dec. 21 it had awarded 489 billion euros ($637
billion) in 1,134-day loans to banks, more than the 293 billion
euros forecast by economists.  John Taylor , founder of currency-hedge fund FX Concepts
LLC, said the ECB loans to euro-area banks is a form of
quantitative easing and the euro is destined to slide next year.  Taylor View  “This is QE in another form,” referring to the monetary
policy the  Federal Reserve  used in undertaking of purchasing
debt to keep long-term rates low, Taylor said in a Dec. 21
interview on Bloomberg Television’s “Inside Track” with  Erik Schatzker . “Three-year money at a low price -- you can give it
back after a year -- it’s a giveaway. What scares me is what the
hell are they going to do with it? They’ll buy Spanish and
Italian debt.”  While investors speculated that banks may use the loans to
buy higher-yielding sovereign debt, which could help reduce
borrowing costs for European countries including Spain and
 Italy , signs emerged that financial institutions may be hoarding
the cash for refinancing needs in 2012.  “There is a banking problem in Europe and the ECB is
trying to find creative ways to ease those funding problems,”
Sutton said. “At least the funding crunch of 2012 is pushed out
a bit further.”  Cash parked at the central bank by financial institutions
surged on Dec. 22 to 347 billion euros, up from 265 billion
euros on the previous day, the Frankfurt-based ECB said.  Less Stress  Banks borrowed more than expected, which “reduces the
pressure on the European financial system,” said Andrew Cox, a
currency strategist at Citigroup Inc. in  New York . “It remains
to be seen how much of an impact it will have on the illiquidity
plaguing sovereign-debt markets.”  Italy’s two-year yields fell 20 basis points to 5.09
percent this week. They yield has declined 1.1 percentage points
since ECB President Mario Draghi announced the unprecedented
loans on Dec. 8.  France ’s GDP rose 0.3 percent from the second quarter, when
it fell 0.1 percent, French statistics institute Insee in Paris
said yesterday. It had previously reported a gain of 0.4
percent. The euro-area economy will probably fail to grow next
year after expanding 1.6 percent in 2011, while the U.S. is
forecast to accelerate to 2.1 percent from 1.8 percent,
according to Bloomberg surveys of economists.  More Ease  ECB Executive Board member Lorenzo Bini Smaghi said policy
makers shouldn’t shirk from using quantitative easing if it’s
needed to avoid deflation.  “Most of the likely options for the ECB will be negative
for the euro,” said Noel Hebert, a credit strategist at
Mitsubishi UFJ Securities USA Inc. in New York. “The trend in
European GDP is pointing to recession, which in addition to
looming maturity issues in both regional sovereigns and banks is
likely to have President  Mario Draghi  and his ECB cohorts
exploring alternatives for further easing.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 3.7 percent. U.S. 10-
year notes fell, pushing the yield up 18 basis points, or 0.18
percentage point, to 2.02 percent.  Orders for U.S. durable goods jumped in November by the
most in four months, data showed yesterday, helping to offset
weaker-than-forecast  consumer spending . House Speaker  John
Boehner  agreed to a two-month extension of a payroll tax cut.  The Conference Board’s index may have increased to 58.6 in
December from 56 in November, according to the median estimate
in a Bloomberg News survey of 61 economists before the Dec. 27
report.  Futures traders decreased their bets from a record level
that the euro will decline against the dollar, figures from the
Washington-based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The
difference in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other
large speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those
on a gain -- so-called net shorts -- was 113,697 on Dec. 20,
compared with net shorts of a record 116,457 a week earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  