-- Lehman Pays Marsal Firm Almost $500 Million to Manage Bankruptcy
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/lehman-pays-marsal-firm-almost-500-million-to-manage-bankruptcy.html
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEHMQ)  has
paid almost half a billion dollars in fees to restructuring firm
Alvarez & Marsal LLC during its bankruptcy, according to a court
filing.  The firm, whose co-founder  Bryan Marsal  runs the defunct
investment bank, charged $496.2 million in fees for 38 1/2
months of “interim management,” including $8.6 million in
November, according to the filing in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in
Manhattan yesterday.  Lehman, which has spent more than $1.5 billion on fees
since filing the biggest bankruptcy in U.S. history in September
2008, paid $30.6 million to lawyers and managers in November,
according to the filing.  The Lehman bankruptcy became America’s most costly in April
2010, when it topped the $757 million cost of energy trader
 Enron Corp. ’s three-year liquidation, according to data compiled
by  Lynn LoPucki , a bankruptcy-law professor at the University of
California,  Los Angeles .  Fees earned by Weil, Gotshal & Manges LLP, based in  New
York , total $366.6 million so far for acting as Lehman’s lead
bankruptcy law firm, including $8 million in November.  Marsal, who bills Lehman hourly, has said he will start
distributing some cash to the defunct firm’s creditors by next
year, more than three years after the bankruptcy filing. He has
court approval for a $65 billion liquidation plan that would pay
the average Lehman creditor less than 18 cents on the dollar in
the next few years, according to court papers.  November Cash  Lehman and its affiliates were holding cash and investments
of $27.2 billion on Nov. 30, compared with $26.4 billion on Oct.
31. Some of the cash wasn’t available for use, according to the
filing.  Lehman’s creditors range from banks and  hedge funds  to the
New York Giants and Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, as well as
individuals who hold Lehman bonds. Once the world’s fourth-
biggest investment bank, Lehman filed for bankruptcy with assets
of $639 billion.  The case is In re Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., 08-13555,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 