-- Gingrich Doesn’t Make Republican Primary Ballot in Virginia
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2011-12-25T18:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/gingrich-perry-fail-to-qualify-for-ballot-in-virginia-republican-primary.html
Former House Speaker  Newt Gingrich ,
atop a recent opinion poll among Virginia Republicans, won’t be
on the party’s March 6 primary ballot because he couldn’t get
enough signatures.  The  Republican Party  of Virginia said yesterday that
neither Gingrich nor  Texas  Governor Rick Perry obtained
signatures from 10,000 registered voters, including 400 from
each of the state’s 11 congressional districts. Two other
Republicans, former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of Texas, qualified for the primary
scheduled for so-called Super Tuesday.  “It speaks volumes to me about the particular
organizational skills of the candidates,” said  Carl Tobias , a
law professor at the  University of Richmond . “It’s hard for me
to understand how they could miss this opportunity.”  Gingrich’s campaign director, Michael Krull, issued a
statement calling  Virginia ’s ballot requirement “a failed
system” and said the former House speaker would launch a write-
in campaign. Virginia law, however, doesn’t allow for write-ins
in primary elections.  “Voters deserve the right to vote for any top contender,
especially leading candidates,” Krull said.  ‘Exploring’ Alternatives  Krull said last night on Gingrich’s  Facebook page  that the
campaign was “exploring alternative methods to compete” in the
primary, and likened the failure to make the ballot to December
1941, when the Japanese bombed  Pearl Harbor .  “We have experienced an unexpected setback, but we will
regroup and refocus with interested determination, commitment
and positive action,” Krull wrote. “In the end, we will stand
victorious.”  Krull said the campaign will make other deadlines for
getting on the ballot in state primaries.  Gingrich now is turning his attention to  Iowa , where the
first test of the 2012 presidential race is scheduled for Jan.
3. Gingrich had led in state polls in recent weeks, though fell
behind Paul and Romney in the wake of attack ads, most of them
by a political action committee funded by Romney supporters.
Gingrich has called the ads “dishonest” and challenged Romney
to defend them in a debate.  Effects of Ads  Former Arkansas Governor  Mike Huckabee , who won the Iowa
caucuses four years ago, said the ads are hurting Gingrich.  “If you are soft on a candidate, and every day you get
pounded with about 20 messages telling you that the guy you
think you might want to vote for has a lot of problems, it’s
easier to switch horses at that point,” Huckabee said today on
“Fox News Sunday.”  “Newt is a good candidate,” Huckabee said. “He’s had a
great message. But he has been pounded by Ron Paul, Mitt Romney,
 Rick Perry  and pretty much anybody who has 15 cents to buy part
of an ad.”  In Virginia, Gingrich launched a last-minute effort last
week to get on the primary ballot in a state he led in a recent
opinion poll.  A  Quinnipiac University survey  of 489 registered Republican
voters taken Dec. 13-19 put Gingrich in the lead in Virginia,
with 30 percent, followed by Romney with 25 percent and Paul at
9 percent. Perry had 6 percent. The margin of error was plus or
minus 4.4 percentage points.  Not Prepared  At a Dec. 21 rally in Arlington, Virginia, Gingrich said he
wasn’t prepared for the surge that made him a frontrunner.  “We weren’t ready for it yet because we don’t have the
structure and we don’t have the money to compete at that level,
so we had to scramble a little bit,” Gingrich said.  His exclusion from the Virginia ballot highlights the
difference between his and Romney’s campaign apparatus.  “A real presidential campaign is more than just appearing
at a bunch of debates,” Republican consultant  John Feehery , who
is not supporting any of the candidates, said yesterday in an e-
mail.  Such organizational advantage may also help Romney if the
Republican nomination contest lasts longer than in previous
years. This time, states voting in March will no longer award
all of their delegates to the winner of their primaries.
Instead, they will be awarded proportionally. Romney had raised
$32.6 million through Sept. 30, more than any of his rivals.  That financial advantage is going to help Romney,
especially if his rivals don’t do well in the early states,
Huckabee said on Fox.  “Unless they have a bunch of millions banked away, they’re
not going to raise anymore,” Huckabee said. “So, that’s where
 Mitt Romney  does have the advantage.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Washington at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Mark Silva  at   msilva34@bloomberg.net . 