-- Libya Says Oil Output Tops One Million Barrels a Day as Industry Recovers
-- B y   O l a   G a l a l
-- 2011-12-24T11:51:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/libyan-oil-production-exceeds-1-million-barrels-a-day-noc-chairman-says.html
Libya, holder of  Africa ’s biggest
oil reserves, is now pumping “more than a million” barrels a
day as the oil industry recovers from months of armed conflict,
the chairman of its state-run National Oil Corp. said.  The country will resume normal oil production by the middle
of next year, Nuri Berruien told reporters in Cairo today, where
he attended a meeting of the Organization of Arab Petroleum
Exporting Countries, or OAPEC.  The North African nation was pumping about 1.6 million
barrels a day in January, before the armed uprising began in
February that eventually ousted leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  The country is seeking to raise its production to 2 million
barrels a day in three-to-five years’ time, Oil Minister Abdul- Rahman Ben Yezza said Dec. 14 in Vienna while attending a
meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
 Libya  is a member of both OAPEC and OPEC.  Ben Yezza said today in Cairo there’s a “gentleman’s
agreement” within OPEC to accommodate the return of Libyan oil.  OPEC set a new production ceiling for the first time in
three years at its Dec. 14 meeting. The agreement to raise the
group’s official output target to 30 million barrels a day
underscores how some members are concerned oil at about $100 a
barrel may sap demand amid signs  Europe ’s debt crisis is driving
the world toward a recession.  Libya Recovers  The recovery in its production rate to more than 1 million
barrels a day means Libyan output now exceeds that of two fellow
OPEC members,  Ecuador  and  Qatar .  At least four tankers had been booked in the week through
Dec. 22 to load 420,000 metric tons of crude oil in Libya,
according to data from Poten & Partners Inc.  The ships have been chartered to pick up the equivalent of
about 3.1 million barrels, compared with about 2.7 million
barrels booked to load on four vessels the previous week, the
New York-based shipbroker’s figures showed.  OAPEC was established in 1968 to foster the development of
the petroleum industry in  member states  as part of an economic
integration plan among Arab countries. The group said after the
meeting ended today that it set its 2012 budget at 2.07 million
Kuwaiti dinars ($7.4 million). OAPEC contains seven nations that
are also within OPEC, the broader 12-nation group that
influences prices by setting supply quotas.  Libya,  Saudi Arabia , Qatar, Kuwait,  Iraq , the United Arab
Emirates and Algeria are all members of both OPEC and OAPEC.  The 12 members of OPEC, which was founded in 1960, are
Algeria, Angola, Ecuador, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Libya, Nigeria,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Venezuela.  Some Arab oil ministers are scheduled to attend a gathering
of Gulf Cooperation Council officials tomorrow in  Abu Dhabi .
Saudi Arabian Oil Minister Ali al-Naimi declined to comment to
reporters today in Cairo.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Galal in Cairo at 
 ogalal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  