-- New York Times Co. Calls Union Back to Negotiations After CEO’s Departure
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/times-co-calls-union-back-to-negotiations-after-ceo-departure.html
New York Times Co. (NYT)  contacted union
leaders about restarting contract negotiations a day after the
publisher announced last week the retirement of Chief Executive
Officer Janet Robinson, according to the local  Newspaper Guild .  Negotiating groups plan to meet in January on a date to be
determined, Newspaper Guild of New York President Bill O’Meara
said in a telephone interview yesterday. The guild, representing
almost 1,100 workers at the company’s flagship New York Times
newspaper, said the two sides last met June 1.  “We have been asking for full meeting since,” O’Meara
said. “A lot of the big issues have yet to be dealt with.”  The negotiations come at a “strange time” as Times Co.
pushes a pension freeze for some employees that is intended to
save $9 million a year, about the same amount as Robinson’s
reported retirement payout, O’Meara said. The company said Dec.
15 that Robinson, who will retire Dec. 31 after seven years as
CEO, will be paid $4.5 million as a consultant for one year.
Reuters, citing unidentified sources, reported this week that
Robinson also stands to make $10.9 million in pension benefits.  “That would have paid pensions for over 1,000 employees,”
O’Meara said. “Our employees are very upset.”  Eileen Murphy, a spokeswoman for the New York Times
newspaper, declined to comment on union negotiations.  Letter to Sulzberger  Times employees published an open letter to Chairman Arthur Sulzberger Jr. at  Saveourtimes.com . The letter has more than 100
signatures.  “We have worked long and hard for this company and have
given up pay to keep it solvent,” the letter reads. “Some of
us have risked our lives for it. You have eloquently recognized
and paid moving tribute to our work and devotion. The deep
disconnect between those words and the demands of your
negotiators have given rise to a sense of betrayal.”  Times Co., which will have to pay $33 million in to the
employee pension plan next year, proposed halting its annual
accrual payments into the fund, O’Meara estimates. Even with a
pension freeze, the company would still have to fund the pension
at about $20 million to $25 million each year to honor prior
obligations, he said.  Times Co. fell 0.3 percent to $7.79 at the close yesterday
and has lost 21 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Edmund Lee in New York at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  