-- Iran Sales Sink Allot as Lawmaker to Seek Investigation: Israel Overnight
-- B y   G w e n   A c k e r m a n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2011-12-25T15:01:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/iran-sales-sink-allot-as-lawmaker-seeks-probe-israel-overnight.html
Allot Communications Ltd. (ALLT)  fell to
the lowest level this month after Bloomberg News reported that
the company’s gear was sold to  Iran  and a lawmaker called for an
investigation.  The  shares slumped  2.9 percent to 60.87 shekels, the
equivalent of $16.10, at the 4:30 p.m. close in  Tel Aviv , the
lowest since Nov. 29. Allot dropped 5.6 percent to $15.75 in the
U.S. on Dec. 23, extending the weekly decline to 8.1 percent.  Hod Hasharon, Israel-based Allot’s equipment for monitoring
Internet traffic was sold to Iran via a distributor in Denmark,
Bloomberg News reported on Dec. 23. The Jewish state bans trade
with Iran, which has called for its destruction. A member of
 Israel ’s parliament called for an investigation, and the
Ministry of Defense said it’s examining the report.  “Investors don’t like these kinds of international
violations of rules,” said  Jay Srivatsa , an analyst at Chardan
Capital Markets in  New York . “Given the tensions between Israel
and Iran, anything like this is probably going to take a little
bit of time to see what’s happening.”  The agreement with the distributor, RanTek A/S, said the
company could only market its products in Denmark, Allot Chief
Executive Officer Rami Hadar said in a Dec. 23 e-mail.  ‘Investigating claims’  “We do not believe that any Allot employees were aware of
RanTek selling outside of  Denmark ,” Hadar said. “But, if
anyone was, we will take strong appropriate action.”  The company said in a statement that it complies “fully
with Israeli and non-Israeli laws, including all applicable
export laws and regulations” and is “investigating the claims
contained in the Bloomberg article.”  Nachman Shai, a member of the opposition Kadima Party, said
in an interview he will ask the  Foreign Affairs  and Defense
Committee of Israel’s parliament to follow up on the report that
Allot’s product was sold to Iran.  Three former sales employees for Allot told Bloomberg News
it was well known inside the company that the equipment was
headed to Iran. Allot officials said they have no knowledge of
their equipment going there and are looking into RanTek’s sales.  “We do not authorize any sales to Iran,” said Jay Kalish,executive director of  investor relations  at Allot. If its
products were shipped there by RanTek, it would be a “breach of
contract.”  ‘Greatest Threat’  Ira Hoffman, an attorney at Shulman Rogers Gandal Pordy &
Ecker, P.A. in Potomac,  Maryland , said the U.S. could prohibit
American companies and individuals from doing business with
Allot if it found the company was complicit in shipments to
Iran.  “Israel considers Iran quite possibly its greatest threat,
and so the Israeli government would come down very strong
against any company that exported to Iran,” he said. “Iran is
also considered by the U.S. as one of its most strategic
threats.”  Daniel Cummins, an analyst at ThinkEquity LLC in New York,
said he doesn’t think Allot will face penalties.  “The risk is that there’s going to be more government
oversight for more types of networking products,” he said.
“It’s not necessarily onerous, but less regulation is always
better than more for a business.”  The gear shipped to Iran, called NetEnforcer, can inspect
pieces of data moving over a network. It can be used to
eliminate spam or help network operators prioritize or block
certain types of traffic.  Best Performance  Allot’s technology “is not designed for intrusive
surveillance purposes,” the company said in the statement on
Dec. 23. “Our equipment lacks any capability to analyze or
extract knowledge on the actual content of  Internet traffic .”  The company’s U.S. shares have surged 35 percent this year,
the best performance on the  Bloomberg Israel-US 25 Index . Sanjit Singh, an analyst at Wedbush Securities, told clients in a
research note that long-term investors should buy on the price
dip.  “We do not envision a scenario where an Israeli-based
company would sell  network equipment  to a nation that is
regarded as a state enemy,” Singh wrote. “It is ultimately
very difficult to prevent a distributor to funnel sales to
hostile nations if it is so inclined.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gwen Ackerman in Jerusalem at 
 gackerman@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in New York at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  