-- Japan Budget’s Dependence on Debt Sales to Rise to Record Next Fiscal Year
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2011-12-24T15:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/japan-budget-s-dependence-on-debt-sales-to-rise-to-record-next-fiscal-year.html
Japan’s budget for the year starting
April showed the government more dependent than ever on bond
sales to fund spending as Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda 
struggles to tame the world’s biggest  public debt burden .  The government will sell 44.2 trillion yen ($566 billion)
of new bonds to fund 90.3 trillion yen of spending, raising the
budget’s dependence on debt to an unprecedented 49 percent, a
plan approved by the Cabinet in Tokyo yesterday showed. Spending
will shrink for the first time in six years after the government
delayed appropriations for the nation’s pension fund and used
supplementary expenditure packages to pay for earthquake
reconstruction.  Noda’s first budget may fail to reassure credit-rating
companies and analysts monitoring his efforts to control  public
debt  twice the size of annual economic output. The government
trimmed 2.6 trillion yen from the package by allocating special
bonds to delay pension funding until a planned sales-tax
increase boosts revenue.  “The government is trying to maintain surface appearances
by playing with the numbers,” said  Takahide Kiuchi , chief
economist at Nomura Securities Co. in Tokyo. “This budget
clearly shows  Japan ’s fiscal situation is worsening.”  Noda will submit the budget bill to parliament next year.  The primary deficit will narrow to 24.1 trillion yen, the
Finance Ministry said, equivalent to about 5.1 percent of  gross
domestic product . Noda aims to post a primary balance, achieved
when revenue matches spending, excluding bond sales and interest
payments, by 2020.  Tax Revenue   New bond issuance will surpass tax revenue for a fourth
year, the government predicts. Receipts from levies have shrunk
about a third after peaking at 60.1 trillion yen in 1990.  “It’s very regrettable that bond sales will exceed tax
revenues and that debt dependence rose to 49 percent,” Azumi
told reporters in  Tokyo  yesterday. “I think the reliance on
bonds to compile budgets is reaching its limit.”  Non-tax revenues including surplus from foreign exchange
reserves halved to 3.7 trillion yen. The budget plan includes a
3.8 trillion yen special account for reconstruction spending.  Expenditures in the current fiscal year’s initial budget
totaled a record 92.4 trillion yen. The government had planned
to cap new bond issuance at 44.3 trillion yen next year.  An aging population and reduced growth since an asset
bubble popped in the early 1990s have left the nation with debt
projected at a record 1 quadrillion yen this fiscal year. The
economy is smaller than a decade ago and remains mired in
 deflation .  Social-Security Spending  Social-security expenses, which have become 2.5 times more
than that of two decades ago, will account for 52 percent of
general spending next year.  The  Bank of Japan  said Dec. 21 that activity in the world’s
third-biggest economy is looking “flat,” downgrading its
assessment. The government estimated that the economy will
shrink 0.1 percent this fiscal year on supply-chain disruptions
from the record temblor in March, the strengthening of the yen
and the European debt crisis.  Gains in the yen are weighing on growth by eroding
exporters’ profits, a factor cited by Moody’s Investors Service
in cutting the rating outlook for  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  on Dec. 22.  The Japanese currency traded at 78.09 per dollar on Dec. 23
after touching a post-World War II high of 75.35 on Oct. 31. The
government allocated 21.9 trillion yen for debt servicing costs
on the premise that benchmark 10-year yields will remain below 2
percent. Japan’s debt burden hasn’t impeded the government’s
ability to borrow, with the 10-year bond yield at 0.97 percent
on Dec. 23.  Reconstruction Demand  “Japan will barely grow by the middle of next year,”
 Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist at Dai-Ichi Life Research
Institute in Tokyo, said before the budget announcement. “The
negative impact of a global slowdown centered on the European
debt crisis will probably surpass the positive impact of demand
from reconstruction at home.”  In a step unseen since 1947, Japan’s Cabinet has approved a
fourth extra budget, to rebuild devastated northeast regions and
spur growth. The nation has compiled about 20 trillion yen of
the supplementary packages after the March 11 earthquake.  Japan is on “a dangerous path” as the government relies
on an increased sales tax that is not certain to be enacted,
said Hiroshi Miyazaki, chief economist at Shinkin Asset
Management Co. in Tokyo.  The ruling coalition plans to raise the sales levy to 8
percent in October 2013 and 10 percent in 2015,  Kyodo News 
reported Dec. 21, citing government sources. The  Finance
Ministry  estimates each 1 percentage point increase will reap
about 2.5 trillion yen of revenue.  Rating Warning  Noda faces opposition to raising the tax from the public
and within his  Democratic Party  of Japan, even as  Standard &
Poor’s  considers further cutting the nation’s credit rating,
reduced in January to AA-.  About 53 percent of voters oppose an increase, with a third
saying Noda should call an election before such legislation,
news service Jiji Press said last week, citing a Dec. 9-12
survey of 2,000 people.  The ruling Democratic Party of Japan lost its majority in
the upper house of the parliament last year after then-Prime
Minister  Naoto Kan  campaigned on a pledge to cut spending and
raise the  sales tax . DPJ members including  Ichiro Ozawa , a
former party leader, are opposed.  Noda’s popularity has fallen since he took office in
September, with his approval rating dropping to 32.4 percent
this month from 35.5 percent in November, Jiji Press reported
Dec. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  