-- New Zealand’s Key Says Latest Christchurch Quakes Unlikely to Add to Costs
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2011-12-24T04:28:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/new-zealand-s-key-says-latest-christchurch-quakes-unlikely-to-add-to-costs.html
New Zealand  Prime Minister John Key
said two earthquakes yesterday and a series of aftershocks in
 Christchurch  today probably won’t add significantly to the
nation’s rebuilding costs as officials seek to reconnect the
city’s water mains and open roads in time for Christmas.  “There will be some additional cost and some additional
impact, but we don’t think that will be overly significant in
the overall scheme of what has been a very expensive exercise in
terms of rebuilding Christchurch,” Key told reporters today,
saying most of the damage occurred in areas already affected by
prior temblors. A magnitude 5.0 quake struck New Zealand’s
second-largest city at about 6:37 a.m. today, according to the
 U.S. Geological Survey .  Christchurch, on the nation’s  South Island , is recovering
from a series of earthquakes that began in September last year,
the worst being a magnitude 6.3 temblor that killed 181 people
on Feb. 22. Ten months later, many residents still await
property repairs while businesses have closed or relocated
because of devastation in the city center. Yesterday’s initial
quake was magnitude 5.8 and was followed by aftershocks
including one of magnitude 5.9, according to the USGS.  “The most significant damage from the earthquakes is
really the psychological damage,” Key said. “This has been a
really extraordinarily difficult year for them. I can understand
why they’re nervous, they might be a little shaken, but they
should have absolute confidence that we are going to put
Christchurch back together again.”  Christmas Day  New Zealand  faces a NZ$20 billion ($15.5 billion) bill to
rebuild homes, roads and commercial buildings in Christchurch
and surrounding towns after earthquakes in the past 15 months.
More than 6,500 homes have been condemned while 900 central city
buildings are being demolished.  No fatalities, serious injuries or widespread damage were
reported following yesterday’s shocks, New Zealand police said.
The first temblor was centered 20 kilometers northeast of the
city and 8 kilometers deep, New Zealand’s  GeoNet  reported. The
stronger quake was shallower and closer to the city, it said.  “By the end of the day, it’s our goal to have the water
supplies back to normal, to have the repairs on the waste water
systems around the city resolved,”  Christchurch  Mayor  Bob
Parker  told reporters today. “Our goal is to get those roads
open and do everything we can to enable our people to get what
they really deserve, which is a reasonable Christmas day.”  Lyttleton Port Closed  All port services at  Lyttleton Port of Christchurch (LPC) , New
Zealand’s largest coal-exporting hub, are closed until engineers
assess buildings, wharves and paving, the company  said  on its
website. Truck receivals and deliveries are suspended until Dec.
26, it said.  Christchurch Cathedral, which is being partially demolished
after suffering damage in February, was further affected, Roger Sutton, chief executive of the Canterbury  Earthquake Recovery 
Authority, told reporters at a televised news conference
yesterday. Other large buildings in the central business
district don’t appear to be badly affected, he said.  Christchurch International Airport Ltd. re-opened yesterday
with no damage to runways or systems, Chief Executive Officer
Jim Boult said in a statement yesterday. Domestic flights to and
from Christchurch were operating close to normal schedule last
night, according to  Air New Zealand Ltd. (AIR)   An office building in the eastern suburb of New Brighton
was damaged, and staff were safely evacuated,  police  said
yesterday. Other properties were cordoned off after suffering
damage, and a previously damaged house collapsed, police said.  Fewer than 50 customers are without electricity today,
 Orion  New Zealand Ltd. said on its website.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in Melbourne at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  