-- Nigerian Army Says 72 Dead in Fight With Militants Inspired by the Taliban
-- B y   A r d o   H a z z a d   a n d   G b e n g a   A k i n g b u l e
-- 2011-12-24T15:48:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/nigerian-army-says-53-dead-in-fight-with-militants-inspired-by-the-taliban.html
At least 72 people died in two days
of fighting between Nigerian security forces and a militant
Islamic group in the northeastern city of Damaturu, military and
police officials said.  “There was a major encounter with the Boko Haram in
Damaturu,” Chief of Army Staff Azubuike Ihejirika told
reporters yesterday in Abuja, the capital. “In the encounter,
we lost three of our soldiers, seven were wounded. But we killed
over 50 of their members.”  Seven policemen and 12 civilians also died in the fighting
since Dec. 22, sparked when militants attacked the city with
explosives and gunfire, Tanko Lawal, the police commissioner in
Damaturu, said today by phone. “There could be more corpses.”
Fighting and bomb attacks have since spread to two other
northeastern cities of Potiskum and Maiduguri, according to the
police.  Authorities in  Africa ’s top oil producer blame the Boko
Haram, which draws inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s Taliban
movement, for a surge of violence in the mainly Muslim north and
Abuja in which hundreds of people have died this year. The
group, whose name translates as “Western education is a sin,”
claimed responsibility for a suicide car-bomb attack on the
United Nations building in the capital on Aug. 26 that killed 24
people.  It claimed multiple Christmas Eve blasts last year in the
central city of Jos that left 80 people dead, and another on New
Year’s Eve at an Abuja military barracks that killed at least 12
people.  Improvised Factories  Nigerian security forces had information the militants
planned to cause “mayhem” during the current “festive
season,” Ihejirika said. “We have put in place measures to nip
this plan in the bud.”  Improvised factories run by the group for producing
explosive devices were discovered in three cities, Damaturu,
Maiduguri and Kano, in the past week, police said. Among the
findings in Kano was a car laden with explosives, probably
prepared for a suicide attack, police said.  Nigeria , Africa’s most populous country of more than 160
million people, is roughly split between a mainly Muslim north
and predominantly Christian south. More than 14,000 people died
in ethnic and religious clashes in the West African nation
between 1999 and 2009, according to the Brussels-based
 International Crisis Group .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ardo Hazzad in Bauchi at 
 ahazzad@bloomberg.net ;
Gbenga Akingbule in Maiduguri at 
 gakingbule@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dulue Mbachu at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net  