-- North Korea Begins Calling Kim Jong Un ‘Supreme Commander’ Amid Transition
-- B y   J i y e u n   L e e
-- 2011-12-24T07:15:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/north-korea-s-media-begins-referring-to-kim-jong-un-as-supreme-commander-.html
North Korean state media began
addressing Kim Jong Un by the “Supreme Commander” title held
by his late father, signaling the communist regime’s new leader
is tightening his control over the nation’s military.  “We vow with bleeding tears to call Kim Jong Un our
supreme commander, our leader,” the North’s Rodong newspaper of
the Workers’ Party of  Korea  said in an editorial.  Becoming “Supreme Commander” would elevate Kim’s stature
as the totalitarian state undergoes a leadership transition in
the wake of this week’s announcement that  Kim Jong Il  died.
Analysts are split whether the younger Kim, who’s thought to be
in his late 20s, will assume immediate control of the world’s
fourth-largest army or initially cede powers to older statesmen.  “This means North Korea is announcing to the world that
Kim Jong Un has full control of the army,” said Kim Yong Hyun,
a professor of North Korea studies at  Dongguk University  in
Seoul. “The next step would be to promote Kim Jong Un as head
of the National Defense Commission and general secretary of the
Workers’ Party, but this will take longer as  North Korea  is
currently in a mourning period.”  Today is the 20th anniversary of Kim Jong Il’s ascension to
“Supreme Commander,” according to the official Korea  Central
News Agency . The late Kim was also head of the National Defense
Committee and general secretary of the  Workers’ Party of Korea.  ‘Great Successor’  His son, believed to be 28 or 29, was first mentioned in
official KCNA dispatches in September 2010, in an announcement
of his appointments as a four-star general and vice chairman of
the party’s Central Military Commission.  Kim Jong Un was hailed by the KCNA as the “Great
Successor” since this week. He quickly began asserting his
control over the military, ordering units to return to base
before the official Dec. 19 announcement of his father’s death,
South Korea’s Yonhap reported Dec. 21, citing an unidentified
government official.  The younger Kim, who studied in  Switzerland  in the 1990s,
inherits an economy where more than 20 million people suffer
from chronic malnutrition and are taught to believe the country
is in a constant struggle with South Korea, the U.S. and  Japan 
after the 1950-53  Korean War  ended without a peace treaty.  When Kim Jong Il handed official posts to his son last
year, he also elevated allies to act as guardians, including
sister Kim Kyong Hui and brother-in-law Jang Song Thaek. Not
everyone expects the younger Kim to assert immediate control.  ‘Little Experience’  “The younger Kim has very little political experience to
run what is one of the world’s most troubled countries,”
Business Monitor International wrote Dec. 19. “We therefore see
a high possibility that he will be a mere figurehead, with real
power wielded by the military.”  Some investors are optimistic.  “In some ways, the break from the past could be a good
signal so I’m more optimistic than pessimistic,”  Mark Mobius ,
executive chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Group, said in
a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday. “I think the
transition is going to be rather smooth.”  South Korea ’s benchmark Kospi stock index took two days to
recover from its 3.4 percent drop on Dec. 19, when North Korea
first announced Kim’s death.  Stalled Talks  South Koreans may also be optimistic. The North will
probably become more open to reforms under its new leader than
when Kim Jong Il was in power, according to almost half of
respondents to a Gallup Korea poll this week.  Officials from South Korea,  China , the U.S., Japan and
 Russia  are assessing the impact of the leadership change in the
regime following Kim’s death. Talks between the five countries
and North Korea have stalled since December 2008 after the
government in Pyongyang refused to allow inspectors to take
samples from a nuclear reactor.  South Korean and Chinese officials may discuss North Korean
issues next week in  Seoul , Yonhap News reported yesterday,
citing a South Korean government official it didn’t identify.
Vice Foreign Minister Park Suk Hwan will probably lead the South
Korean side, it said.  Tensions on the peninsula have risen since North Korean
attacks last year on a warship and a disputed island. The Obama
administration, which along with the  United Nations  increased
 sanctions  after the incidents, resumed direct talks with North
Korea in October on dismantling its nuclear program, including
work on a light-water atomic reactor that the KCNA said on Nov.
30 was “progressing apace.”  North Korea is estimated to have 1.2 million troops and
another 7.7 million in reserve, according South Korea’s 2010
Defense White Paper. It also has 70 submarines, including an
undetermined number of Yeono-class midget subs, compared with
South Korea’s 10.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jiyeun Lee in Seoul at 
 jlee1029@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jim McDonald at 
 jmcdonald8@bloomberg.net  