-- Payroll Tax Cut Extension Sets Up 2012 Fight in Congress Over Longer Plan
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2011-12-24T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/payroll-tax-cut-extension-sets-up-2012-fight-over-longer-plan.html
Congressional Democrats are making
clear they want to focus talks for a one-year extension of a
 payroll tax  cut on an issue that proved difficult before the
latest partisan brawl: whether higher taxes for the wealthy
should help cover the plan’s cost.  Congress yesterday passed a two-month  payroll tax -cut
extension eight days before its scheduled expiration after House
Republicans dropped their objections under growing political
pressure. President  Barack Obama  signed the measure, and
negotiators in both parties are making plans to start work on a
longer-term deal.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters yesterday that a surtax for millionaires may be part
of the debate, as “everything’s on the table.” The third-
ranking Senate Democratic leader,  Charles Schumer  of  New York ,
was more direct on Dec. 22 about seeking new taxes on higher
earners, a proposal rejected by House and Senate Republicans.  “Look, we think that’s the fairest way to go because
everyone has to give a little bit here, and those at the highest
income levels, over a million-dollar incomes, have done the best
in this economy,” Schumer said on CNN’s “The Situation Room.”
He said, “So that should still be on the table.”  Election Year  Their remarks reflect the tough task of negotiating a
longer extension of the payroll  tax cut  during an election year
that will feature a debate over tax and fiscal policy,
particularly whether to extend the $4 trillion in expiring
income tax cuts first enacted under President  George W. Bush .
The payroll tax talks will center on a much smaller $200 billion
extension.  Yesterday lawmakers were focused on a short-term agreement
that will continue the 2-percentage-point payroll tax cut
through February. Without a deal, the current tax cut would have
expired Dec. 31, reducing take-home pay for 160 million U.S.
workers.  “This is some good news, just in the nick of time for the
holidays,” said Obama, who signed the legislation yesterday.
“When Congress returns I urge them to keep working without
drama, without delay, to reach an agreement” on extending the
tax cut for all of 2012, he said.  Similar to a plan passed by the Senate Dec. 17, the measure
Obama signed extends the 4.2 percent payroll tax, continues
expanded unemployment benefits and heads off a reduction in
Medicare payments to doctors through February. It also calls on
Obama to accelerate his decision on the Keystone XL oil pipeline
from  Canada .  Shutdown Threats  The agreement capped a year of partisan battles marked by
threats to shut down the federal government and default on
government debt obligations. House Republicans backed down on
their objections to the bill after attacks from Obama,
congressional Democrats and Senate Republicans angered by the
House’s push for a yearlong extension.  “I hope this Congress has had a very good learning
experience, especially those who are newer to this body,”
Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid, a Nevada Democrat, told
reporters after his chamber’s action yesterday. “It seems that
everything we’ve done this past year has been a knock-down,
drag-out fight. There is no reason to do that.”  The agreement doesn’t resolve the deep divide over how to
cover the cost through 2012.  As Democrats seek higher taxes on the wealthy, Republicans
want to cut the federal workforce and freeze pay for government
employees, among other spending-cut options.  Unemployment Insurance   Other issues also may arise. Republicans want to attach
policies such as a rewrite of the  unemployment  insurance system
or weaker rules for industrial emissions -- both opposed by
Democrats. Republicans want to let states drug-test people who
receive  unemployment benefits  and require them to make progress
toward earning a high school diploma.  Both parties agree on one matter, saying they want to
eliminate lower reimbursements for doctors under Medicare.  A
two-year fix, averting a 27 percent cut effective Jan. 1, was
included in House-passed legislation.  “We passed, in our bill, two year’s worth of a doc fix so
that physicians would not have their Medicare reimbursements
cut,” said Representative Renee Ellmers of  North Carolina , one
of the Republican negotiators, said Dec. 22. “Our seniors need
to know that they can receive that good health care and continue
to do so.”  Taxes for Wealthy  The issue of higher taxes for the wealthy has been divisive
in this year’s debate over Obama’s $447 billion jobs plan, which
included a payroll tax-cut proposal. Few of the plan’s elements
became law, in part because of a push in the Democratic-
controlled Senate to offset costs with a “millionaires’
surtax” opposed by Republicans. Democrats control 53 Senate
seats, seven short of the 60 needed to overcome delaying tactics
by opponents of legislation.  Republicans might be in a weaker position in 2012. Senate
Republican leader  Mitch McConnell  of  Kentucky  has been unable to
advance an alternative approach on the payroll tax cut, in part
because some members of his caucus don’t think it’s the best way
to stimulate the economy.  Boehner’s task also may be more difficult.  “I don’t think it’s a time for celebration,” he told
reporters this week. “Our economy is struggling. We’ve got a
lot of work ahead of us in the coming year.”  Some Republicans were pleased to see that Boehner cut his
losses.  ‘Great Danger’  “The great danger would have been if we continued,” said
Representative Tom Cole of  Oklahoma . “We made our points. We’ve
gotten some modifications.”  Some  House Republicans  said yesterday they didn’t believe
Boehner’s agreement to pass the two-month extension put him in
immediate danger of losing the support of his House Republican
majority.  Representative  Sean Duffy , a freshman Republican from
 Wisconsin , said Boehner was trying to reflect the views of his
colleagues. Duffy said he is pleased a tax increase will be
avoided in January and doesn’t think the saga will hurt
Republicans in the 2012 election.  “I think the American public will look at the economy and
job growth and the lack thereof,” Duffy said. “I don’t think
this is an indicator of what will happen next year.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  