-- Thousands of Russians Wearing Symbolic White Ribbons Protest Putin’s Power
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v   a n d   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2011-12-24T15:41:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/russian-election-fraud-protest-support-rises-moscow-police-say.html
Russian Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin  faced more mass protests today over alleged election fraud
as former Finance Minister  Alexei Kudrin  warned of a
“revolution” unless the government assuages popular anger.  At least 30,000 people thronged Sakharov Prospect, a wide
avenue in Moscow named after Soviet-era dissident Andrei
Sakharov, police said. The event organizers said up to 120,000
people attended the rally.  Kudrin, who resigned in September after a clash with
President  Dmitry Medvedev  over military spending, backed
opposition calls for the resignation of the country’s senior
election official and their demand for a repeat of the disputed
Dec. 4 parliamentary poll.  Putin, 59, who is seeking to return to the Kremlin in March
presidential elections, confronted the biggest demonstrations of
his 12 years in power on Dec. 10, when tens of thousands of
people took to the streets of Moscow and other cities.  The government must hold the March 4 elections under more
democratic rules and new parliamentary elections, “otherwise
it’s revolution, otherwise we will lose this chance which we
have today -- a peaceful transformation, and the trust which the
new elected government must receive,” Kudrin told the
protesters from a stage.  Register Parties  Medvedev, 46, who agreed in September to step down to allow
Putin’s comeback, announced measures to loosen political
controls in his state-of-the-nation speech on Dec. 22, promising
to make it easier to register parties and run for president. The
changes wouldn’t take full effect until the parliamentary and
presidential elections in 2016 and 2018.  The protesters, who braved below-freezing temperatures and
snow, wore white ribbons that have become a symbol of the anti-
Putin movement. Some held up signs saying, “For Russia without
Putin.”  Rallies also took place today in other Russian cities
including  St. Petersburg , Yekaterinburg in the Urals and
Novosibirsk and Krasnoyarsk in Siberia.  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who is challenging Putin in
the 2012 presidential vote in what many commentators describe as
a ploy to give the election more legitimacy, was at today’s
event in Moscow. Prokhorov says he’s a genuine candidate.  The businessman said today he would order repeat
parliamentary elections under the new rules announced by
Medvedev if elected president. Kudrin, whom Prokhorov has
suggested he may appoint as prime minister, said Russia should
hold a new parliamentary vote within a year.  Legally Binding  Medvedev’s human rights council today also recommended that
Vladimir Churov, chairman of Central Election Commission, resign
over violations reported during the parliamentary elections.  The recommendation isn’t legally binding, Yelena Dubrovina,
a member of the Central Election Commission, was cited as saying
on state-run Rossiya 24 television.  Natalya Timakova, Medvedev’s spokeswoman, declined comment
on the calls by Kudrin and Prokhorov for new parliamentary
elections when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Putin last week insisted that the results of the
parliamentary vote were fair and accused protesters of being
funded by foreign powers.  The ruling United Russia party won just over half of seats
in the Dec. 4 vote, losing the two-thirds majority that allowed
it to alter the constitution unilaterally. International
observers said the elections were marred by ballot-stuffing.  “I came here as I am for honest elections,” said 20-
year-old economy student Kristina Menyazeva at the Moscow rally
today. “I think I was deceived and I’m fed up. I think we
should carry on with our demands and we must make sure that
there are honest elections on March 4.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  