-- Syrian Security Buildings Hit by Bombers
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2011-12-24T14:09:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/syrians-mourn-victims-of-suicide-bombings-as-arab-monitors-meet-minister.html
Crowds gathered in the Syrian
capital, Damascus, today for the funerals of those killed in two
suicide bombings as  Arab League  monitors planned to meet the
country’s foreign minister.  Forty-four people, civilians and security forces, were
killed and 166 others injured in the two explosions that
targeted security-service offices yesterday,  Al Jazeera  reported
on its website today, citing the interior ministry.  The attacks took place a day after the arrival of an Arab
League mission that will prepare for the monitoring of an accord
to end nine months of violence. The Arab League team will meet
Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem today, the English-langauge
news channel reported.  The state-run  Syrian Arab News Agency  said yesterday that a
preliminary investigation revealed the attack “carries the
blueprints of al-Qaeda.” The Syrian opposition has accused the
government of staging the attack, citing the timing concurring
with the fresh arrival of the Arab League delegates.  “The explosion has the Syrian authorities’ signature,”
Burhan Ghalioun, head of the Syrian National Council, said in an
interview with Al Arabiya television. “If they want to prove
the contrary, all they have to do is form international
investigation committees to determine who conducted these
operations, but they won’t do that, because they know it’s their
doing.”  Sanctions  President Bashar al-Assad’s government, which has been
grappling with nine months of unrest, previously blamed
“terrorists” and foreign provocateurs for fomenting the anti-
government protests.  Syria  agreed to an Arab League protocol to
allow about 500 observers into the country. The Dec. 19 signing
came as Arab League prepared to ask the  United Nations  to
address a crisis that the UN estimates has left more than 5,000
people dead.  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27,
increasing economic and political pressure on Assad. Efforts by
the U.S. and the European Union, which also have imposed
sanctions, to get a condemnation of his crackdown at the UN
Security Council have been blocked by Russia and  China .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  