-- Venezuela’s Chavez Takes to Airwaves Again, Gives Out Houses
-- B y   C o r i n a   R o d r i g u e z   P o n s   a n d   J o s e   O r o z c o
-- 2011-12-24T21:20:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/venezuela-s-chavez-takes-to-airwaves-again-gives-out-houses.html
Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez 
made his second live appearance this week on state television,
this time to give out homes as part of a housing drive ahead of
next year’s elections.  “I’m at the head of this housing mission, it’s a personal
challenge,” he said on Venezolana de Television. “We can’t let
our guard down.”  Chavez, who was treated this year in Cuba for an
undisclosed cancer and has declared himself cured, spoke for
three-and-a-half hours.  “I’m ending the year with an increased desire to live,”
he said. “I never thought almost six months ago that I’d be in
such good shape at the end of this year, and that’s how I
feel.”  Chavez, 57, has made resolving the country’s 2 million unit
housing deficit a priority heading into presidential elections
next year as he attempts to extend his 12-year rule with another
six-year term.  Venezuela  has spent 52 billion bolivars ($12.1 billion) to
build more than 140,000 units this year and will spend 60
billion bolivars to build 200,000 units next year with financing
from  Russia ,  China  and private sources, he said.  The president has been giving away homes to poor
Venezuelans, including those left homeless since heavy rains
last December prompted landslides and left 130,000 without
shelter.  Chavez also said on TV a group made up of representatives
from Citic Group,  China Development Bank  and a Chinese state
agriculture bank will visit the South American country on
Jan. 10.  Separately, Chavez named Wilfredo Figueroa Chacin as the
head of military intelligence, replacing Hugo Carvajal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Corina Rodriguez Pons in Caracas at 
 crpons@bloomberg.net ;
Jose Orozco in Caracas at 
 jorozco8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  