-- Yemeni President Saleh Says He’ll Leave for U.S.; Syrians Mourn Victims
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   Z a i d   S a b a h
-- 2011-12-24T22:03:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-12-24/yemeni-president-saleh-says-he-ll-leave-for-u-s-syrians-mourn-victims.html
Outgoing Yemeni President Ali Abdullah Saleh said that he plans to leave the country for the
U.S. and let an interim government get ready for an election
that will replace him.  At least nine people were killed yesterday in an attack by
Yemeni security forces on protestors marching to the capital of
Sana’a from the southern city of Taiz,  Al Jazeera   reported . In
Syria, at least 45, including three children, were killed, Al
Arabiya reported citing activists.  Saleh, addressing reporters at the presidential palace,
said that he’ll return to Yemen at an unspecified date to
represent the opposition. A U.S. State Department spokesman had
no immediate comment on Saleh’s plans. White House spokesman
 Josh Earnest  declined to comment.  “I am in good health and I will travel to the U.S. in the
coming days to get away from attention, cameras, and allow the
unity government to prepare properly for elections,” Saleh said
yesterday. The presidential election has been set for Feb. 21.  The demonstrators who took part in the march are calling
for the prosecution of Saleh and his aides in the deaths of at
least 1,100 people since the uprisings started in January.  Saleh said the unity government led by the opposition was a
“coup and unconstitutional. It is a government of an 11-month
crisis,” he said, referring to the almost yearlong uprising
against his rule.  He also said tribal business tycoon Hamid al-Ahmar was
funding the protesters, who are demanding a trial for Saleh. The
outgoing president said al-Ahmar was involved in the attack
against the presidential compound in which Saleh and some of his
aides were wounded in June 3.  Tear Gas, Water Cannons  Abdulnaser al-Kamali, a protester, said officials used
“tear gas, water cannons and even gunfire to stop us” and said
they were being prevented from marching on a street near the
presidential palace.  The protesters objected to the immunity given to Saleh in
November. Tanks were seen moving near the palace and members of
the elite Republican Guard, which is led by Saleh’s son Ahmed,
were deployed in the area, according to Yahia Nasser, a witness
who spoke by phone.  Dozens of protesters were arrested by the pro-Saleh forces,
the National Organisation for Defending Rights and Freedoms, a
non-governmental group, said in an e-mailed statement.  In  Syria , crowds gathered in Damascus for the funerals of
those killed in two suicide bombings as Arab League monitors
planned to meet the country’s foreign minister. Forty-four
people, civilians and security forces, were killed and 166
others injured in the two explosions Dec. 23 that targeted
security-service offices, Al Jazeera reported on its website
yesterday, citing the interior ministry.  Muslim Brotherhood  Syria’s Muslim Brotherhood denied responsibility for the
attacks, Mohammed Riad Al-Shaqfa, secretary general of the
group, told Al Jazeera yesterday in a telephone interview from
Istanbul.  “A few days ago, the regime evacuated the employees of
Damascus security building and replaced them with prisoners and
killed them in that explosion.” he said. “The Syrian regime
has created a fake website similar to ours and fabricated a
statement saying that the group is responsible of the attack.
The regime accused al-Qaeda 30 minutes after the attacks,
yesterday it accuses us. It’s a lying regime.”  President Bashar al-Assad’s government, which has been
grappling with nine months of unrest, previously blamed
“terrorists” and foreign provocateurs for fomenting the anti-
government protests. Syria agreed to an  Arab League  protocol to
allow about 500 observers into the country. The Dec. 19 signing
came as Arab League prepared to ask the  United Nations  to
address a crisis that the UN estimates has left more than 5,000
people dead.  Arab League  The Arab League imposed sanctions on Syria on Nov. 27,
increasing economic and political pressure on Assad. Efforts by
the U.S. and the European Union, which also have imposed
sanctions, to get a condemnation of his crackdown at the UN
Security Council have been blocked by Russia and  China .  “We welcomed the Arab initiative, but the suppression and
terror are still taking place,” Burhan Ghalioun, head of the
opposition Syrian National Council, said in an address,
according to footages broadcast by  Al Arabiya  television. “The
regime still incorrectly betting on misleading the general
opinion, misleading the Arab League and its observers.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Dubai at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net ;
Zaid Sabah in Washington at 
 zalhamid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emily Bowers at 
 ebowers1@bloomberg.net  