-- Analysts, Investors Comment on Apple-Samsung Verdict
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-25T01:46:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/analysts-investors-comment-on-apple-samsung-verdict.html
Analysts and legal experts comment
on  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s victory today in a federal court case in  San
Jose ,  California , against  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co.,
which it accused of copying mobile phone designs and patents.  Carl Howe, an analyst with Boston-based  Yankee Group :  “This is a big win for Apple. The jury found in their
favor for nearly every single claim.”  “It puts Google on notice.”  “In some sense it’s already had the effect Apple was
looking for. You’re already seeing Samsung change their designs
to avoid using the Apple-patented technologies and you’re going
to see more of that. They are going to avoid the infringing
issues. They will choose the path of least resistance.”  “It’s good for innovation. It says that if you create
something new, others can’t just piggyback on it. From a
competition point of view, it says create your own stuff. It
says copying is not OK.”  “You have to remember this is one venue and this is a
worldwide legal battle.”  “What I think really the overall upshot is that if you
don’t want to be tied up in court for the next 10 years, do
something different. That was Apple’s goal.”  Kevin Restivo, a Toronto-based analyst for IDC Corp.:  “The impact of the verdict to Samsung and Apple in the
marketplace is minimal at best. The technology in the market is
consistently ahead of the courts.  Mobile phones  are no
different.”  “Samsung has taken a sizable lead in the smartphone market
over Apple and every other phone maker in the world. There’s a
huge gap between the verdict and reality.”  “Samsung is not likely to cede the smartphone market
leadership to Apple or anyone else in the short term.”  “Apple has its hands full with Samsung, irrespective of
whether it’s been wronged or not.”  “There is no question about it, this is a victory for
Apple.”  “It’s proved what it wanted to prove and it’s received
significant monetary damages to that effect.”  “There’s no denying that this is an important day for
Apple in that it’s received some redress with respect to the
wrongdoings of Samsung vis a vis the iPhone design.”  “The net effect is going to be in future versions of
iPhone and any other smartphone.”  “This gives Apple that ability, and that important legal
precedent, to protect its valuable intellectual property.”  “Companies are going to think twice when designing their
future smartphones in ensuring there are no similarities between
their competitive versions to an iPhone.”  “In the short term, it doesn’t dent Android momentum.”  “It does give Apple the ability to better protect its
IP.”  “The damages assessed are huge, but relative to the size
of Samsung’s cash flow it’s not going to be noticeable impact on
its finances.”  “It is a black eye for Samsung.”  Michael Risch , patent law professor, Villanova University:  “This is a snapshot moment in time. Samsung has deep
pockets and they are going to change some designs up. They are
going to have to change some features that make things, but
maybe they will come up with something better.”  “Not being able to copy may make them do better things
than Apple.”  Risch said Apple succeeded where others haven’t by being
able to patent user-interface designs. When companies tried that
in the 1980s by using copyright law, the courts ruled against
those design claims. “Apple figured out a way around that.”  “This is going to lead to some hard thinking at the
Federal Circuit and maybe even the  Supreme Court  about design
patents.”  Apple was able to persuade the jury that if the overall
appearance of the devices is similar, the minor differences in
design don’t matter, Risch said.  “This case is not over. I think there is going to be a lot
of hang-wringing about what to do.”  Kevin Rivette, founder of 3LP Advisors LLC and former vice
president of intellectual property strategy for International
Business Machines Corp.:  “The court is 10 miles from Cupertino headquarters.”  “Microsoft is a big winner today. It’s the only other one
out there. If I were HTC, I’d be very concerned.”  “The licensees will start moving away from Android.
They’re business people. Google is now in a position that they
didn’t want to be in.  “Google is the one that has to stand up for the Android
system.  “It’s a good day for competition. You’re going to force
competitors to come into the marketplace with new designs.  “We’ve seen the first big win in a long battle.  “We’re not even close to being done.”  Hartmut Esslinger, founder of Frog Design Inc. and a consultant
to Apple on designing the first Mac computer:  “It’s a great day for design.”  “There’s many ways to make a nice tablet, you don’t have
to copy Apple.”  “This means companies will have to put more money into
more original designs. Samsung is a huge company, with the
reputation of being a copycat, which it is.”  “They’re a huge company and they can do much better.
Instead of paying the lawyers, they should pay some designers.”  “There’s huge value in creative design.”  --Ian King, with assistance from Peter Burrows and Adam Satariano in  San Francisco . Editors: Stephen West, Reed Stevenson  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Ian King in San Francisco at 
 ianking@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  