-- Apple-Samsung Jury Foreman Says Google E-Mail Persuasive
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t ,   K a r e n   G u l l o   a n d   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-08-26T16:14:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/apple-samsung-jury-foreman-says-google-e-mail-persuasive.html
Jurors who awarded Apple Inc. more
than $1 billion in its intellectual-property battle with Samsung
Electronics Co. relied on e-mails describing  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s
influence to arrive at their decision.  Velvin Hogan, foreman of the nine-member panel, said
yesterday in an interview that jurors went through a
“meticulous” process of determining that Samsung infringed
Apple’s products. When it came time to determine whether the
infringement was “willful,” or intentional, “we knew where we
had to go in the evidence,” Hogan said, referring to the e-
mails. The e-mails included an internal 2010 Samsung message
describing how Google asked it to change the design of its
products to look less like Apple’s.  The jury’s finding that the infringement was intentional
allows U.S. District Judge Lucy Koh in San Jose,  California , to
triple the damages next month when she considers Apple’s request
to bar sales of some Samsung products.  “Certain actors at the highest level at  Samsung
Electronics Co. (005930)  gave orders to the sub-entities to actually
copy,” Hogan said. “So the whole thing hinges on whether you
think Samsung was actually copying. The thing that did it for us
was when we saw the memo from Google telling Samsung to back
away from the Apple design.”  “The entity that had to do that actually didn’t back
away,” said the 67-year-old San Jose resident.  Android System  Following a four-week trial, Apple, based in Cupertino,
California, won more than $1 billion after the jury found on
Aug. 24 that Suwon, South Korea-based Samsung infringed six of
seven patents for its mobile devices in a verdict that may lead
to a ban on U.S. sales of handheld electronics a judge deems to
violate Apple’s rights. The jury was required under federal
rules to issue a unanimous verdict.  Samsung has used Google’s Android free operating system to
build phones that propelled it to the number one spot in the
phone market. The Samsung e-mails presented as evidence during
the trial included a Feb. 16, 2010, internal message describing
minutes from a design meeting that was sent to “pass along only
a few comments from Senior Designer Cho who went into the Google
meeting yesterday,” according to the message.  “Since it is too similar to Apple, make it noticeably
different starting with the front side,” according to the
message, referring to one of Samsung’s tablets.  A second e-mail, dated Feb. 22, 2010, was sent to more than
30  Samsung employees .  ‘Distinguishable Design’  “I am notifying you of the team leader’s directives from
the executives’ meeting yesterday,” the message begins. The
sixth item on the list addresses a need to “respond to the
issue of design similarity for the S series,” which Samsung
designer Kim Jin Soo testified was a reference to the company’s
S series of smartphones.  “Google is demanding distinguishable design vis-à-vis the
iPad,” according to the e-mail. “Consider design
distinguishability for the items demanded by Google while
maintaining the current design, and in regards to each carrier’s
demands.”  Kim testified that he didn’t recall any such directives
from his superiors. Looking at the e-mails at trial, he said he
saw the documents for the first time the day before in
preparation for his testimony.  No Breaks  Hogan said the group pressed through deliberations without
any formal coffee breaks, worked through lunches, and
deliberated for an hour longer than scheduled on two of the
three days.  Hogan, who told the court he had served on three juries in
civil cases and has two children in their 40s, spent seven years
working with lawyers to obtain his own patent covering “video
compression software,” a hobby of his. He worked in the
computer hard-drive industry for 35 years at companies including
Memorex Corp., Colorado-based Storage Technology Corp. and
Massachusetts-based Digital Equipment Corp.  Based in part on that experience, jurors elected him
foreman, Hogan said. The only dissenting vote was his own, he
said.  The jury’s first job was to determine which patents were
valid, he said.  Light Bulb  “When I got in this case and I started looking at these
patents I considered: ‘If this was my patent and I was accused,
could I defend it?’” Hogan explained. On the night of Aug. 22,
after closing arguments, “a light bulb went on in my head,” he
said. “I thought, I need to do this for all of them.”  The next day, the first full day of deliberations, Hogan
said he explained his thinking to his fellow jurors. “We
discussed each and every patent, each and every claim, each and
every limit” described in the patents, he said.  “We took this extremely seriously, we looked at it
meticulously, but the way we looked at it, a lot of things
grouped together,” he said. The group cut through unnecessary
work by hand-drawing a matrix on a notepad to illustrate which
patents Apple said were infringed by as many as 26 Samsung
smartphones and tablet computers, he said.  He said the process also helped to identify which set of
legal rules to apply for the three different types of claims at
issue -- utility patents, design patents and trade dress, or how
a product looks.  Speeding Process  “While on the outside people thought we got through this
quickly, our method was we threw some things out that didn’t
need to be considered,” Hogan said.  The jury also included a mechanical engineer, an aspiring
software engineer and a woman who worked for National
Semiconductor Corp.  While the interests and professional backgrounds of those
jurors reflect the Silicon Valley pool from which the panel was
drawn, another juror works at a cycling shop and one panelist
who didn’t go to college works in construction, according to
court transcripts. Seven of the nine panelists said they had
never served on a jury before.  Aarti Mathur, who told the court she had worked at
information technology startups as a benefits administrator,
spoke briefly about serving on the jury, her first, after the
verdict.  ‘Exciting Experience’  “It was a very exciting experience and a unique and novel
case,” she said in an interview at her home in  San Jose .
“There was a lot to go through and we were able to sort it
out.” She declined to comment further.  Hogan was issued a patent covering a “method and apparatus
for recording and storing video information,” according to the
U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.  “I could imagine him being very useful to the other jurors
as long as he’s not trying to dominate the jury room,” said
Mark McKenna, a University of Notre Dame Law School professor,
in an interview before the verdict. “It could be the case that
because this guy has a lot of expertise that a lot of jurors
defer a lot of specific questions to him.”  Hogan’s patent isn’t the same type as those covering
software features and design elements that were at issue in the
trial, McKenna said.  “But the patent is not as unrelated to Apple’s as a
biotech patent or a piece of farm machinery” he said. “It’s
still in the tech industry.”  One prospective juror whom Apple successfully fought to
remove from the case was a Google engineer who told the court he
worked in some capacity with patents covering technologies for
the search engine company’s YouTube unit, AdWords program and
Android operating system.  Samsung’s Galaxy Nexus smartphone, which the jury found to
infringe two Apple patents, was the first smartphone to use
Google’s Android 4.0 operating system.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 11-
cv-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net ;
Karen Gullo in San Francisco at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net ;
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  