-- Biden Cancels Tampa Visit During Republican Convention
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s
-- 2012-08-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/biden-cancels-tampa-visit-during-republican-convention.html
Vice President  Joe Biden  has
canceled plans to visit Tampa during next week’s Republican
National Convention because of concerns that his trip may
disrupt disaster planning for Tropical Storm Isaac.  Biden’s plan to stop on Aug. 27 in the Florida city hosting
the Republican convention was postponed so that local emergency
management authorities “can stay focused on ensuring the safety
of people who might be impacted by the storm, as well as those
attending the activities in Tampa,” President  Barack Obama ’s
re-election campaign said in an e-mailed statement last night.  Republicans are scheduled to gather next week in Tampa to
nominate  Mitt Romney  as their presidential candidate. The Obama
campaign had scheduled Biden for a two-day trip to  Florida  --
the biggest prize among swing states in the November election --
as a way to provide timely and proximate rebuttals to Republican
attacks on Obama’s record.  The core of Isaac, which may threaten the Republican
convention, was projected to cross Haiti overnight on a track
toward Cuba and the eastern  Gulf of Mexico , where it’s forecast
to become a hurricane, the U.S. National Hurricane Center said.  The hurricane center’s current tracking map shows Isaac
nearing the Florida Keys tomorrow and becoming a hurricane on
Aug. 27, the opening day of the convention. The storm may go
ashore the next day on the Florida Panhandle, the center said.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  said during a news briefing
yesterday in the state capital Tallahassee that Isaac wouldn’t
cause delays at the convention. Few delegates have canceled, he
said. Scott is scheduled speak at the convention on Aug. 27.  Biden’s plans to visit the Florida cities of Orlando and
St. Augustine, on the other side of the state, on Aug. 28 are
subject to change because of weather-related precautions, the
Obama campaign said in its statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  