-- Boehringer, Bayer Blood Thinners Backed for Arrhythmia
-- B y   A l l i s o n   C o n n o l l y
-- 2012-08-25T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/boehringer-bayer-blood-thinners-backed-for-arrhythmia.html
New blood thinners from Boehringer
Ingelheim GmbH and  Bayer AG (BAYN)  should be used to prevent stroke in
patients with a common irregular heartbeat known as atrial
fibrillation, the European Society of Cardiology recommended.  The drugs “offer efficacy, safety and convenience”
compared with standard therapy and should be considered for most
patients with atrial fibrillation when anticoagulants are
recommended, authors of the guidelines, led by  John Camm  of St.
George’s University of  London , said in a statement today at the
group’s annual conference in Munich.  Therapies approved since 2010, when the last guidelines
were published, include Boehringer’s Pradaxa and Xarelto from
Bayer and  Johnson & Johnson. (JNJ)  There’s insufficient evidence to
recommend one drug over the other, according to the statement.
The standard treatment has been warfarin, a drug approved in
1954. Patients on warfarin have to undergo periodic monitoring
with blood tests.  Atrial fibrillation affects almost 2 percent of the
population, with the average age of patients between 75 and 85
years old, according to the guidelines. The condition is
associated with a fivefold increased risk of stroke and
threefold higher risk of heart failure, the authors said.  Evidence that favors aspirin in stroke prevention is weak,
they said. Aspirin carries a high risk of bleeding in elderly
atrial fibrillation patients, and should be given only to those
who refuse to take an anticoagulant, they said.  ‘Major Improvement’  “Taken together these changes should lead to a major
improvement of the care of patients with atrial fibrillation,
the most prevalent sustained cardiac rhythm disturbance,”
according to the statement.  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  are seeking
approval of a drug called Eliquis to treat atrial fibrillation.
If approved, the drug should be considered along with Pradaxa
and Xarelto, according to the guidelines.  Other guidelines announced today recommend that patients
suspected of having a severe heart attack receive the drug
clopidogrel, also known as Plavix, made by Bristol-Myers Squibb
and  Sanofi (SAN) , and aspirin within 30 minutes of the start of
medical treatment and angioplasty within 90 minutes.  The European Society of Cardiology represents more than
75,000 doctors who treat cardiovascular disease.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Connolly in Frankfurt at 
 aconnolly4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  