-- E-Cigarettes Not Tied to Risk of Heart Disease in Study
-- B y   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-08-27T13:27:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/e-cigarettes-not-tied-to-risk-of-heart-disease-in-study.html
(Corrects brand spelling to “Blu” in seventh paragraph
of story that originally ran Aug. 25.)  Electronic  cigarettes  used by
smokers who want to kick the habit show no connection to  heart
disease , according to a study that adds to evidence of health
benefits of switching from tobacco to smokeless alternatives.  E-cigarettes, electronic tubes that simulate the effect of
smoking by producing nicotine vapor, prompted no adverse effects
on cardiac function in the study, researchers from the Athens-
based Onassis Cardiac Surgery Center said in a report presented
at the  European Society of Cardiology  annual meeting in Munich
today.  Investigators examined the heart activity of 20 young daily
smokers after one ordinary cigarette against 22 people who
smoked an electronic cigarette for 7 minutes. Whereas tobacco
smokers showed “significant” disruptions of functions such as
heartbeats or blood pressure, the effect of e-cigarettes on the
heart was minimal, Konstantinos Farsalinos, one of the
researchers, said in the presentation.  “Currently available data suggest that electronic
cigarettes are far less harmful, and substituting tobacco with
electronic cigarettes may be beneficial to health,” Farsalinos
said.  Previous studies have found that the electronic devices
would have to be smoked daily for four to 12 months to achieve
the levels of nitrosamines, a carcinogen, that are present in a
single tobacco cigarette, the researchers said. Industrywide e-
cigarette sales this year are likely to double from $250 million
in 2011, according to  UBS AG .  Psychological Effects  Electronic cigarettes, which mimic the look and feel of
traditional versions without generating smoke and ash, are one
of the few smoking alternatives that provide users with their
chemical need for nicotine and reproduce the psychological
effect of holding and smoking a cigarette, the researcher said.  Makers of the battery-powered devices include  Lorillard
Inc. (LO) , a Greensboro, North Carolina-based producer of standard
cigarettes, which acquired Blu Ecigs for $135 million in April.
The U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  has yet to impose rules on
the testing and production of e-cigarettes.  About 2.5 million people use e-cigarettes in the U.S.,
according to an estimate by the Tobacco Vapor Electronic
Cigarette Association.  Although nicotine is present in the devices’ vapor, it is
absorbed by the blood at a far slower rate than tobacco smoke,
accounting for the lower levels of toxicity, Farsalinos said. No
traces of nitrosamine were found in the e-cigarettes in the
study, he said.  The  World Health Organization  has asked that clinical
studies be conducted to determine whether e-cigarettes are safe
and effective as they aren’t regulated, he said. Manufacturers
market the product as safer than smoking without studies to back
it up, he said.  “Electronic cigarettes are not a healthy habit, but they
are a safer alternative to tobacco cigarettes,” Farsalinos said
in Munich today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehreen Khan in  London  at 
 mkhan108@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 