-- Hertz Said to Be Close to Cash Deal for Dollar Thrifty
-- B y   D a v i d   W e l c h ,   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   M a r k   C l o t h i e r
-- 2012-08-27T01:38:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/hertz-said-to-be-close-to-deal-for-dollar-thrifty.html
Hertz Global Holdings Inc. (HTZ)  may
strike a deal to acquire  Dollar Thrifty  Automotive Group Inc.
for about $2.56 billion in cash as soon as today, people
familiar with the negotiations said.  Hertz is in talks to pay $87.50 a share, said the people,
who asked not to be identified because the discussions are
private. The companies’ boards were scheduled to meet today to
consider approving the transaction, these people said. At that
price, Tulsa, Oklahoma-based Dollar Thrifty would get 8 percent
more than its closing price of  $81 (DTG)  on Aug. 24.  Hertz Chief Executive Officer Mark Frissora has tried for
more than five years to acquire Dollar Thrifty, in what may be
the last combination of major U.S. car rental companies that
competition regulators would probably tolerate. Dollar Thrifty
shareholders rejected  Park Ridge , New Jersey-based Hertz’s 2010
bid of about $1.2 billion. Frissora made another offer last year
that he later withdrew, citing market conditions.  Hertz, Enterprise Rent-A-Car, and  Avis Budget Group Inc. (CAR) 
together control about 75 percent of the market, with Dollar
Thrifty at 5 percent, according to a February report from
IBISWorld. No other competitor has more than 1 percent market
share, IBISWorld said.  Anna Bootenhoff, a spokeswoman for Dollar Thrifty, and
Richard Broome, a spokesman for Hertz, weren’t immediately
available for comment.  Investors Contacted  Hertz, which reaffirmed last month it wanted to buy Dollar
Thrifty, began contacting some Dollar Thrifty investors in
recent weeks to determine at what price they would sell, said
three people familiar with the matter.  As part of the transaction, Hertz has been trying to sell
its Advantage unit to satisfy U.S. antitrust concerns. The
company plans to sell the business to  Franchise Services of
North America Inc. (FSN)  and Macquarie Group Ltd.’s Macquarie Capital,
two people with knowledge of the transaction said.  The purchase price is $16 million, one of the people said.
Franchise Services, which operates the U-Save brand, is run by
Co-Chief Executive Officer Sanford Miller, the CEO of Budget
Group Inc. from 1997 to 2004.  Deal Terms  The overall transaction under discussion now includes no
breakup fees, the people said. That means that Hertz wouldn’t
have to pay Dollar Thrifty if antitrust regulators block the
transaction, and Dollar Thrifty wouldn’t have to pay if it took
a higher offer from a third party.  The terms of the deal would allow Dollar Thrifty to solicit
a higher offer for 30 days, the people said. Parsippany, New
Jersey-based Avis ended its previous pursuit of Dollar Thrifty
in September 2011, and turned down an approach from Dollar
Thrifty to re-engage as recently as last month, a person with
knowledge of the matter said at the time.  Dollar Thrifty shares traded below $1 in March 2009; this
year they gained 15 percent through Aug. 24.  The new offer is worth about $2.56 billion, based on the
29.24 million shares including options and compensation-related
stock listed in its quarterly  regulatory filing . Some of the
figures may have changed since the Aug. 2 filing that could
affect Hertz’s exact cost of the acquisition, said one the
people.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 David Welch  in Detroit at 
 dwelch12@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Clothier in Southfield, Michigan at 
 mclothier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net  