-- Euro Advances Most in Six Months as Fed Signals More Stimulus
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-08-25T04:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/euro-advances-most-in-six-months-as-fed-signals-more-stimulus.html
The euro had its largest weekly gain
against the dollar in six months as the  Federal Reserve  signaled
it’s increasing likely to try to stimulate economic growth and
amid growing optimism Europe’s leaders will contain its crisis.  The 17-nation shared currency gained for a second week as
German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  said she wants  Greece  to stay in
the monetary union and that her nation is ready to help the
Greek government take the needed steps to resolve its economic
woes. The euro on Friday snapped four days of gains after
European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi ’s plan to buy
 government bonds  was said to be held up pending a German court
ruling. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is to speak on Aug. 31 in
Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , where he may clarify his thinking on the
need for stimulus.  “The Fed’s dovish tone definitely put people on watch,”
Brian Kim, a currency strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group
Plc in  Stamford  Connecticut, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “That meeting took place before the latest payroll
data, before the latest consumer spending data. People said,
well, we have to take that into consideration. It definitely
puts more onus on the Jackson Hole speech.”  The euro rose 1.4 percent this week to $1.2512, its largest
weekly gain since the five days ended Feb. 24. The shared
currency climbed to $1.2590 Aug. 23, the strongest since July 4.
The euro gained 0.3 percent to 98.44 yen, the second weekly
advance. The dollar weakened 1.1 percent to 78.67 yen.  Fed Minutes  The  Federal Open Market Committee  said “additional
monetary accommodation would likely be warranted fairly soon
unless incoming information pointed to a substantial and
sustainable strengthening in the pace of the economic
recovery,” according to the record of the policy makers’ July
31-Aug. 1 gathering released Aug. 22 in  Washington .  Employers added 163,000 workers last month, the biggest
gain since February, according to the Labor Department jobs
report issued earlier this month. Americans’ paychecks in the
first half of 2012 grew at the fastest pace in five years,
according to calculations by UniCredit Group in  New York , based
on data from the Commerce Department, pointing to an improvement
in purchasing power that may help propel the economic expansion.  Fed officials next meet on Sept. 12-13. Bernanke signaled a
second round of bond buying by the Fed at  Jackson Hole  in 2010.  “Bernanke is likely to come off as more able and ready to
act than Draghi,” Noel Hebert, chief investment officer at
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania-based Concannon Wealth Management LLC,
which oversees about $250 million. “But, at this point, I would
argue the Fed policy transmission mechanism is in the repair
shop and movement from the ECB has more fundamental weight.”  ‘Mildly Optimistic’  Draghi announced on Aug. 2 that the central bank may
intervene in the secondary market to reduce bond yields. Central
bankers may wait until  Germany ’s Constitutional Court rules on
the legality of Europe’s permanent bailout fund before unveiling
full details of his plan to buy government bonds, two central
bank officials said.  With the court set to rule on Sept. 12, investors looking
for Draghi to announce a definitive purchase program at his
Sept. 6 press conference might be disappointed, according to the
officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the
deliberations are not public.  “The market continues to digest those early August
announcements from the ECB,”  Vassili Serebriakov , a currency
strategist at  Wells Fargo & Co . in New York, said in a telephone
interview. “It may have shifted sentiment from skeptical to
mildly optimistic.”  Greece, Spain  Merkel said Germany is ready to help Prime Minister Antonis
Samaras’s government as it takes the necessary steps to resolve
his country’s economic woes.  “I want Greece to stay in the euro zone and that’s what
I’m working for,” Merkel told reporters in Berlin yesterday at
a joint press conference with Samaras. “I am deeply convinced
that the new government under the leadership of Prime Minister
Samaras will do what it takes to solve the problem in Greece.”  Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  will hold a working
lunch with Merkel on Sept. 6 as the ECB governing council meets
to work on the details of a mechanism to lower borrowing costs
for peripheral euro members.  “Right now I don’t think anybody is going to be doing much
of anything going into Jackson Hole,” said Kim of RBS.
“September will hopefully bring a little more clarity on
things.”  The euro gained 0.8 percent on the week, the biggest
increase along with the Swiss franc and Norway’s kroner among 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The  U.S. dollar  fell 0.8 percent and the yen
added 0.4 percent. Canada’s dollar dropped 1.2 percent to lead
decliners.  Net Shorts  Futures traders decreased their bets that the euro will
decline against the U.S. dollar, figures from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by  hedge funds  and other large
speculators on a decline in the euro compared with those on a
gain -- so-called  net shorts  -- was 123,932 on Aug. 21, compared
with net shorts of 137,810 a week earlier.  Australia’s dollar fell against 12 of its 16 major peers
for the week as Reserve Bank Governor  Glenn Stevens  said the
nation’s resource investment boom will peak “within the next
year or two” and a report showed China’s manufacturing may
contract at a faster pace.  “Australia’s dollar has really been underperforming today
after weak Chinese data,” Eric Viloria, senior currency
strategist at Gain Capital Group LLC in New York, said Aug. 23
in a telephone interview. “It’s looking a bit heavy here.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  