-- Mexico Police Fire on U.S. Embassy Vehicle in Crime-Patrol Area
-- B y   E r i c   M a r t i n   a n d   I n d i r a   A . R .   L a k s h m a n a n
-- 2012-08-25T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/mexico-police-fire-on-u-s-embassy-vehicle-in-crime-patrol-area.html
Mexican Federal Police fired on a
U.S. Embassy vehicle yesterday after it drove through an area
where officers were working on anti-crime operations in an
incident that left two American employees wounded.  The victims were traveling with a member of the Mexican
Navy to visit a naval facility when they were confronted by
assailants on a dirt road about four kilometers (2.5 miles) from
the highway between Mexico City and Cuernavaca, according to an
e-mailed statement from the nation’s Naval Ministry. The embassy
personnel were trying to escape their attackers when police
vehicles arrived at the scene and officer fired. The ministry
didn’t say whose shots injured the U.S. personnel, who were
taken to a local hospital and are expected to survive.  “It’s clear this was an accident,” Alejandro Schtulmann,
president and head of research at Mexico City-based consulting
firm  Emerging Markets  Political Risk Analysis, said in a phone
interview. “I don’t think the federal police wanted to
deliberately shoot a diplomatic vehicle. Part of the problem is
lack of training of police in Mexico and the lack of protocol.”  The State Department wouldn’t disclose the names of the
wounded employees or the U.S. agencies for which they work.  “We are working with Mexican authorities” to investigate
the incident, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said
yesterday in earlier e-mailed statement that described the
assailants as unknown. She said the wounded Americans “are
receiving appropriate medical care and are in stable
condition.”  Cartels  Mexico is embroiled in a war against violent drug cartels,
and slayings linked to narcotics have soared since President
 Felipe Calderon  sent troops to fight crime groups when he took
office in December 2006.  There have been more than 47,000 deaths linked to drug
violence in the past five years, according the attorney
general’s office.  While Mexico City has been largely spared drug violence,
the state of Morelos, where the attack occurred, has been a base
of operation for the so-called Beltran Leyva Cartel.  Security officials say the cartel has splintered since
Mexican marines gunned down its leader, Arturo Beltran Leyva, in
a Cuernavaca condominium in 2009.  The U.S. has been aiding Mexico’s fight against drug
traffickers as part of a $1.6 billion assistance package known
as the Merida Initiative.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eric Martin in  Mexico  City at 
 emartin21@bloomberg.net ;
Indira A.R. Lakshmanan in Washington at 
 ilakshmanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  