-- Fed's Lacker Says More Easing Wouldn't Boost U.S. Growth
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-08-25T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/fed-s-lacker-says-more-easing-wouldn-t-boost-u-s-growth.html
Federal Reserve  Bank of Richmond
President  Jeffrey Lacker  said more monetary stimulus wouldn’t do
much to reduce unemployment or spur economic growth.  “My sense is that monetary policy isn’t capable of having
a material effect on growth, or employment, or unemployment at
this point,” Lacker said in an interview on the “Charlie Rose” show broadcast today. “I’m in the camp of being a bit of
a skeptic about more monetary stimulus at this time.”  Lacker’s views are in the minority among members of the
 Federal Open Market Committee , the Fed panel that sets monetary
policy, and he was the lone dissenter at the FOMC’s July 31-Aug.
1 meeting. Minutes of the gathering said “many members judged
that additional monetary accommodation would likely be warranted
fairly soon” unless economic reports pointed to a substantial
pick-up in growth.  The FOMC’s Aug. 1 statement said the committee “will
provide additional accommodation as needed to promote a stronger
economic recovery and sustained improvement in labor market
conditions.” Separately, Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the Fed
has the ability to take additional steps to boost the economy.  “There is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve
to ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,”
Bernanke said in a letter dated Aug. 22 to Representative
 Darrell Issa , a Republican from  California  and the chairman of
the House Oversight and Government Reform Committee.  Lacker dissented from the committee’s Aug. 1 decision to
reiterate a conditional commitment to keep the benchmark lending
rate close to zero “at least through late 2014.”  Dual Mandate  The  unemployment rate  has been higher than 8 percent for
more than three years, which means the Fed isn’t meeting its
dual mandate to achieve stable prices and full employment. Fed
officials’ central tendency estimate for full employment was 5.2
percent to 6 percent in June.  “This economy’s been disappointing,” Lacker said on the
show broadcast on PBS and Bloomberg Television. “It’s really
trying our patience.”  Growth cooled to a 1.5 percent annual pace in the second
quarter from 2 percent in the previous three months as consumers
and companies pulled back. Regulatory and fiscal uncertainty are
inhibiting economic growth, Lacker said.  “I get around and talk to businessmen, bankers, consumers
all the time,” Lacker said in the interview with Rose. “There
are good ideas out there, but they don’t know how to cost out a
new plan, they don’t know what the  tax rate ’s going to be, they
don’t know what the health care benefit costs are going to be
for any workers they hire.”  Direct Purchases  The Fed has engaged in two rounds of quantitative easing,
boosting total assets on its balance sheet to $2.83 trillion
through direct purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed
securities.  Bernanke said in his letter the Fed’s asset purchases
“have helped to promote a stronger recovery” and avert
deflation.  Lacker said the Fed’s 2010 asset purchase program “may
have increased inflation a bit.”  “Inflation’s in a good place right now though,” he said.
“I don’t think we want to push it up any higher.”  The Fed’s price benchmark, the personal consumption
expenditures price index, rose 1.5 percent for the 12 months
ending in June, below the FOMC’s 2 percent target.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Christopher
Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  