-- Gillard’s Labor Loses Power in Australia’s Northern Territory
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t
-- 2012-08-26T14:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/gillard-s-labor-loses-power-in-australia-s-northern-territory.html
Australian Prime Minister  Julia Gillard ’s  Labor Party  lost power in elections in the Northern
Territory after 11 years in office.  The Country Liberal Party, led by Terry Mills, won at least
14 of the 25 seats in the Legislative Assembly to oust Chief
Minister Paul Henderson’s Labor, according to incomplete results
from the Aug. 25 election published in the media.  People “voted for change and for a better future,” Mills
said in comments broadcast by  Sky News  yesterday.  The Northern Territory, about the size of Mongolia, is a
sparsely populated region in  Australia ’s arid central-north.
More than half of the territory’s 230,000 people live in the
port city of Darwin, and about a third of its population is
indigenous compared with the national average of about 3 percent,
according to government statistics.  The election was fought primarily on local issues,
including strengthening the police, affordable housing,
government funding in remote and rural areas, and indigenous
rights. The  Northern Territory ’s population is too small for it
to be declared a state.  Gillard, in an e-mailed statement yesterday, congratulated
Mills and paid tribute to Henderson’s work as chief minister.  Henderson “leaves the economy in superb condition, with an
unemployment rate of just 4 percent, down from 7.4 percent,”
Gillard said.  In March, Labor suffered a landslide poll defeat in
Queensland, leaving Gillard with her party governing just two of
the nation’s six states. Labor holds power in Australia’s other
territory, the Australian Capital Territory, home to the
national capital, Canberra.  Federally, the Northern Territory has two lower house seats
out of 150 nationwide and two senate seats out of 76.  Labor recorded its best performance in opinion polls in six
months last week as Gillard seeks to overcome public opposition
to her carbon tax introduced in July. The Labor government was
favored by 35 percent of voters in a Newspoll survey published
in the Australian newspaper on Aug. 21, up 2 percentage points
from two weeks earlier, compared with 45 percent for  Tony
Abbott ’s Liberal-National opposition coalition.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jason Scott  in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  