-- Isaac Skirts Cuba on Path to Florida Keys, Panhandle
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-25T21:49:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/isaac-skirts-cuba-on-path-to-florida-keys-panhandle.html
Tropical Storm Isaac is skirting
Cuba’s northern coast, then will turn north along western
Florida and possibly soak the  Republican National Convention  in
Tampa on track to landfall near Pensacola next week.  The storm may strike the Florida Keys as a Category 1
hurricane late tomorrow. About 8.6 percent of U.S. oil
production and 1.6 percent of natural gas output from the  Gulf
of Mexico  are shut because of Isaac, a Bureau of Safety and
Environmental Enforcement report today showed.  “It will be lifting off the northeast coast of Cuba
tomorrow and once it gets away from all this land, at that
point, we expect it to become a hurricane,” said Dan
Pydynowski, a senior meteorologist at AccuWeather Inc. in  State
College , Pennsylvania. “On Sunday night, it crosses the lower
Keys probably as a Category 1 hurricane” with winds of at least
74 miles (119 kilometers) per hour.  Isaac, 120 miles (193 kilometers) east of Camaguey, Cuba,
has been closely watched because of its potential threat to the
Republican National Convention, which starts Aug. 27, and
because its track will take it into the Gulf, home to 23 percent
of U.S. oil production, 7 percent of natural gas output and 44
percent of the country’s refining capacity.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  declared a statewide
emergency. A strike near Pensacola would mark the first time a
hurricane has gone ashore on the Gulf coast since 2008. The
National Hurricane Center said the Isaac might reach Category 2
strength before landfall.  Convention Outlook  Scott said yesterday that Isaac wouldn’t cause delays at
the convention. Few delegates had canceled, he said. Vice
President  Joe Biden  dropped plans to visit Tampa during the
convention because of concern that the trip may disrupt disaster
planning, according to a statement from President Barack Obama’s
re-election campaign.  Scott’s emergency declaration activates the National Guard.
The governor encouraged people planning to attend the convention
to carry on with their plans.  “There is no need to cancel hotel reservations at this
time due to Tropical Storm Isaac,” he said in a statement.
“Florida is the number one tourism destination in the country
and is accustomed to handling weather events as related to
visitors.”  Tampa Visitors  More than 50,000 people are expected to visit the Tampa Bay
area as Republicans hold their meeting, said James Davis, a
convention spokesman. The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site of the
gathering, is in a mandatory-evacuation zone once storms reach
96 mph, Category 2 on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale ,
according to the Hillsborough County Hurricane Guide.  Amtrak  suspended passenger rail service south of Orlando at
least through tomorrow because of the storm, according to a
statement from the federally run railroad.  Hurricanes don’t move under their own power. Instead, they
are pushed and pulled by other weather systems, Pydynowski said.  Isaac has become enmeshed with a low pressure area in the
Caribbean, and that will alter its track, possibly pushing it
further west as it moves into the Gulf, according to a forecast
analysis by Jack Beven, senior hurricane specialist at the  NHC
in Miami .  “For the next 24-36 hours Isaac and the center will likely
rotate around each other,” Beven wrote. “Based on this
expectation the forecast track shows Isaac moving northwestward
for 12 hours or so followed by a turn toward the west-
northwest.”  Path Uncertain  The result may be that Isaac could strike anywhere between
Louisiana and Florida, he said.  Tampa will probably feel the brunt of “squally winds” and
receive as much as 5 inches of rain, said  Jim Rouiller , senior
energy meteorologist at Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn,
Pennsylvania.  “For Tampa to get catastrophic flooding, the storm would
have to move west to east into the bay, and that is not going to
happen,” Rouiller said.  Isaac’s top winds were 60 miles per hour and the storm was
moving northwest at 21 mph, according to a hurricane Center
 advisory  at 2 p.m.  New York  time.  The  current forecast track  takes the storm along Cuba’s
northern coast today and then across the Florida Straits and
Keys tomorrow, according to the hurricane center. From there,
Isaac is expected to grow into at least a Category 2 hurricane
on the five-step Saffir-Simpson scale before going ashore near
Pensacola by mid-week, the center said in a forecast analysis.  Rig Risk  “We’re lessening the energy risk,” said Joel Widenor, co-
founder of Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.
“The risk to the western Gulf is declining.”  Rouiller said because storms spin counter-clockwise, the
parts of Isaac that will hit the bulk of energy platforms in the
Gulf will be the weakest.  “The most damaging part will be to the east of the rigs,”
Rouiller said. “I don’t expect any lasting damage.”  BP began evacuating its Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf
yesterday and suspended crude and natural-gas production there
before the storm. The London-based company also plans to remove
non-essential workers from its Na Kika, Horn Mountain and Marlin
platforms, Arturo Silva, a BP spokesman, said in a statement.  The  Williams Co. (WMB)  was securing the Blind Faith, Devils Tower
and Canyon Station platforms in the eastern Gulf of Mexico.
Based on Isaac’s projected track, the company expected to shut
the platforms and evacuate workers Aug. 26 or Aug. 27, a notice
posted on Williams’s website showed.  Gulf Evacuations       Exxon Mobile Corp., (XOM)   Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR) ,  Royal
Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Diamond Offshore
Drilling Inc. (DO)  and  Ensco Plc (ESV)  said they were evacuating
nonessential workers. Shell said on its website that drilling
operations have been suspended on some central and eastern Gulf
assets, though production hasn’t been affected. Murphy also
halted drilling operations, Barry Jeffery, a company spokesman,
said by e-mail.  Transocean Ltd. said it evacuated 91 non-essential workers
from three deepwater rigs. Most of the company’s 13 deepwater
rigs in the Gulf have secured the wells they were working on,
 Guy Cantwell , a company spokesman, said in an e-mail.  Isaac dropped heavy rain in Haiti, where about 500,000
people are still living in temporary housing since a 2010
earthquake. As much as 20 inches (51 centimeters) of rain may
fall, which can cause life threatening mudslides, the hurricane
center said.  At least three people have died in Haiti, according to the
 Associated Press .  Heavy Rain  As much as 12 inches of rain could fall across central and
eastern parts of Cuba, the Florida Keys and the southern
peninsula of Florida. Schools and offices in the Keys are closed
until the system passes.  A hurricane warning, meaning winds of at least 74 mph will
arrive within 36 hours, was posted for the Florida Keys, Florida
Bay, state’s west coast from Bonita Beach south to Ocean Reef.  A hurricane watch, meaning a strike is possible, covers
Haiti, Florida’s east coast from Golden Beach to Ocean Reef and
Andros Island in the Bahamas, according to the hurricane center.  Tropical storm warnings , meaning winds less than 74 mph are
probable, have been posted for Haiti, parts of Cuba, the
Bahamas, the Turks and Caicos Islands, Florida’s east coast from
Sebastian Inlet southward to Ocean Reef and Lake Okeechobee.
Some of these areas overlap with other warnings.  Isaac is the ninth named storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season this year. Ten storms have formed this year, including
Tropical Storm Joyce, which has already fallen apart.  The  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration , which
includes the National Hurricane Center, said there may be as
many as 17 named storms this season, including hurricanes,
according to a statement Aug. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  