-- Neil Armstrong, Whose ‘Giant Leap’ Put Man on the Moon, Dies
-- B y   D a n   H a r t   a n d   D a v i d   H e n r y
-- 2012-08-26T04:00:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/neil-armstrong-whose-giant-leap-put-man-on-moon-dies-at-82.html
Neil Armstrong , who set mankind’s
first steps on the moon during Apollo 11, the mission that
finally made extraterrestrial travel seem real and gave the U.S.
a lead in the Cold War space race, has died. He was 82.  The  National Aeronautics and Space Administration , citing
Armstrong’s family, said yesterday he died of complications
resulting from cardiovascular procedures. Earlier this month,
the  Associated Press  reported that he had heart surgery.  A record television audience of 528 million people
worldwide watched Armstrong, the mission commander, step off the
ladder of the lunar module Eagle and onto the moon’s surface at
10:56 p.m.  New York  time on July 20, 1969. He was followed by
pilot Edwin “Buzz” Aldrin about 20 minutes later.  Michael Collins  remained in orbit, in the command module that would take
them all home.  “That’s one small step for man, one giant leap for
mankind,” Armstrong said, a sentence that became one of the
most quoted of the 20th century. He told  NASA  interviewers that
he had intended to say “a man,” and that the article “a”
might have been lost in transmission. He said his inspiration
was the children’s game known as “Baby Steps, Giant Steps.”  The final minutes of the four-day, 239,000-mile trip to the
moon had tested Armstrong’s famous cool under pressure.  Piloting the lunar module, he searched for a safe landing
spot amid rough terrain, finally touching down with about 20
seconds of fuel left. Back in Houston, mission control had been
on the verge of ordering him to abort the landing and return to
the command module.  Pledge Fulfilled  “Houston, Tranquility Base here,” Armstrong radioed home.
“The Eagle has landed.”  Apollo 11 fulfilled President  John F. Kennedy ’s pledge from
May 1961 to put a man on the moon by the end of the decade, as
the world’s two superpowers jockeyed for advantage in space. A
month before Kennedy’s speech, the Soviet Union had launched
astronaut Yuri Gagarin into orbit after several successful
unmanned missions.  President  Barack Obama  said Armstrong was among the
greatest of American heroes of all time. When he stepped on the
moon, “he delivered a moment of human achievement that will
never be forgotten.”  House Speaker  John Boehner , a representative from  Ohio ,
said, “A true hero has returned to the Heavens to which he once
flew.”  NASA Administrator Charles Bolden said that as NASA enters
its next phase of exploration it does so “standing on the
shoulders of Neil Armstrong.”  Destined for the Job  Armstrong was an enigma to his NASA colleagues and to the
American public, who rarely saw him after he left the Apollo
program.  On one hand, he was widely respected in aviation circles
and considered the natural choice to lead the first lunar-
landing mission.  “All through the preparation for the mission, I was
absolutely amazed at how quiet, how calm he was,” recalled Gene Kranz, NASA’s flight director during Apollo. “The quiet,
absolutely superbly confident assurance that Neil had, in
retrospect, was pretty inspirational in itself. Here’s a guy who
knew he was destined to do a job.”  A man of few words, Armstrong also exhibited an aloofness
that troubled those who worked with him. He “never transmits
anything but the surface layer, and that only sparingly,”
Collins, his Apollo 11 crewmate, wrote. “I like him, but I
don’t know what to make of him, or how to get to know him
better. He doesn’t seem willing to meet anyone halfway.”  Refuge at Home  The loner with the “breakfast food face,” as writer
 Norman Mailer  described it, willingly relinquished the public
podium to Aldrin after the mission and faded into obscurity as
he sought to play down his groundbreaking role in history. While
Aldrin did the Hollywood party circuit and appeared on talk
shows, Armstrong took refuge on his Ohio dairy farm and accepted
modest jobs in academia and business that seemed to suit his
self-effacing image.  To Armstrong, fame was not just unwanted, but unwarranted.  Being first to land on the moon “is sort of
happenstance,” he told a NASA interviewer in 1966, when it was
unclear who would get the honor. “It’s not the same sort of
thing as when Lindbergh crossed the ocean,” an aviation
milestone that was “based on his own ideas and his own
techniques and his own accomplishments.”  Combat Missions  In a rare interview in 2005, timed to the release of his
biography, Armstrong told CBS’s “60 Minutes”: “We all like to
be recognized not for one piece of fireworks, but for the ledger
of our daily work.”  Neil Alden Armstrong was born on Aug. 5, 1930, near
Wapakoneta, Ohio, on his grandparents’ farm. During his
childhood, he moved frequently while his father, Stephen,
traveled around the state working as an auditor.  Armstrong developed an early love of airplanes, taking his
first flight when he was about 6 years old in Warren, Ohio,
 James Hansen  wrote in his 2005 biography, “First Man: The Life
of Neil A. Armstrong.”  Armstrong’s time at  Purdue University  in  West Lafayette ,
 Indiana , was interrupted by military service in Korea, where he
flew 78 combat missions for the Navy. In September 1953, he
struck an antiaircraft cable at 350 mph and ejected over a bay
he later learned was heavily mined, according to Craig Nelson’s
2010 book, “Rocket Men.” The wind carried him to a rice field,
where his hard landing cracked his tailbone.  NASA’s ‘Best’  After earning an aeronautical-engineering degree from
Purdue in January 1955, he became a research pilot for NASA’s
predecessor, the National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics, at
a center in  Cleveland , and transferred to the High-Speed Flight
Station at California’s Edwards Air Force Base in July 1955.  At Edwards, Armstrong flew such aircraft as the Bell X-1B
and North American X-15, Hansen wrote. He flew more than 900
flights in the seven years he spent there.  The Soviet launch of the Sputnik satellite in October 1957
and Kennedy’s speech to the nation about a moon mission helped
turn Armstrong’s interest toward space.  NASA chose a new group of astronauts in early 1962 to join
the original Project Mercury members in piloting the two-man
Gemini spacecraft. The goal was to learn how to rendezvous and
dock vehicles in orbit.  In September 1962, NASA introduced Armstrong as one of nine
new astronauts. James Lovell Jr., the future commander of Apollo
13, was also included. The “Next Nine,” as the second class
was called, “was the best NASA ever picked,” said Collins,
who, along with Aldrin, was in the third group of astronauts.  Moon Mission  Armstrong’s first spaceflight was on Gemini 8 in March
1966, the first planned rendezvous and docking in space. He and
 David Scott  achieved the first docking in space before their
mission was aborted when the connected spacecrafts began
spinning out of control. Armstrong managed to stop the spin and
both astronauts maintained consciousness. (Asked about the
emergency years later in a NASA interview, the understated
Armstrong called it “a non-trivial situation.”)  Testing a version of the lunar lander in May 1968,
Armstrong averted a fiery death by ejecting seconds before the
vehicle, leaking propellant, crashed. “I bit my tongue, but
that was the only real damage,” he said in a taped interview in
2011 with CPA Australia, an accounting industry membership
group.  Famous Photos  Armstrong was named backup commander for Apollo 8, the
December 1968 mission that put the first humans in orbit around
the moon. Once that mission was successfully under way,
Armstrong was ready for his next assignment. Deke Slayton, head
of the astronaut office, proposed that he lead Apollo 11. Soon
it became clear that, should Apollo 9 and 10 go smoothly, Apollo
11 would be the first attempt to land on the moon.  In April 1969, NASA said Armstrong would be the first to
step out onto the moon’s surface. Apollo 11 blasted off from
 Kennedy Space Center  in Florida on July 16.  “I thought we had a 90 percent chance of getting back
safely to Earth on that flight, but only a 50-50 chance of
making a successful landing” on the moon, Armstrong said in his
 2011 interview  with CPA Australia. He said there were “so many
unknowns” about descending from orbit to the surface.  A camera mounted on the lunar module sent back live, grainy
video of Armstrong, then Aldrin, alighting on the moon’s
surface. Under NASA’s carefully prescribed schedule, Armstrong’s
first assignment was to scoop up a sample of lunar dirt and
rocks, in case some emergency required an immediate departure.
He became so engrossed in taking photographs -- some of which
are among the  most famous images  in human exploration -- that
mission control had to remind him three times about the sample.  Parades and Honors  “I’m going to get to that just as soon as I finish this
picture series,” Armstrong replied.  He and Aldrin conducted experiments, collected lunar rocks,
planted a U.S. flag and left a commemorative plaque that reads:
“Here Men From the Planet Earth First Set Foot Upon the Moon.
July 1969, A.D. We Came in Peace for All Mankind.” It bore the
signatures of the three astronauts and President  Richard Nixon .  The first travelers to the moon’s surface then rendezvoused
with the Columbia command module, where Collins had been keeping
his lonely vigil.  Following their arrival back on Earth on July 24 and then a
precautionary quarantine, Armstrong, Aldrin and Collins
participated in parades in their honor, including one in New
York City that drew an estimated 4 million people. The trio each
received the Medal of Freedom, the nation’s highest civilian
honor.  Finger Severed  The next year, Armstrong was involved with NASA’s internal
investigation into the cause of the malfunction aboard Moon-
bound Apollo 13 that could have killed astronauts Lovell, Fred
Haise Jr. and John Swigert. An oxygen tank exploded in the
command module and forced them to abort the mission.  Armstrong quit the astronaut corps in May 1970 to become a
NASA administrator for a year before leaving, partly from the
constant demand for official public appearances.  He taught aerospace engineering at the University of
Cincinnati from 1971 to 1980 and joined numerous boards,
including that of rocket maker Thiokol Corp. He also served on
the Rogers Commission, which investigated the 1986 explosion
that destroyed the space shuttle Challenger.  In 1978, Armstrong severed the ring finger of his left hand
when his wedding ring got stuck on a latch at his Ohio dairy
farm. Rather than scream or run, Armstrong found his finger,
iced it, drove to the hospital and had it reattached, according
to Nelson’s account.  Media-Shy  Armstrong, who became increasingly media-shy in later
years, was involved in fundraising for Purdue, and in October
2007 took part in dedicating a $53.2 million engineering
building named after him.  Armstrong married Janet Shearon in January 1956. They had
two sons, Eric and Mark. A daughter, Karen, died in 1962 at 3
years old after a six-month battle with a brain tumor.  The couple divorced in 1994 after 38 years of marriage.
Armstrong then married Carol Knight, whom he had met two years
earlier at a  golf tournament .  In the 2011 interview, Armstrong said he wasn’t bothered
that a small but insistent group of conspiracy theorists
believed the moon landing was a hoax staged by the U.S.
government.  “It was never a concern to me,” Armstrong said, “because
I know that one day, somebody’s going to go fly back up there
and pick up that camera I left. So then they’ll be sure.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Hart in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net ;
 David Henry  in Frankfurt at 
 dhenry2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at   cstevens@bloomberg.net  