-- All Blacks Shut Out Wallabies for First Time in 50 Years
-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 2012-08-26T08:47:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/new-zealand-beats-australia-22-0-to-retain-rugby-s-bledisloe-cup.html
New Zealand  beat Australia 22-0 to
secure back-to-back Rugby Championship wins over the Wallabies
and retain the Bledisloe Cup for a 10th straight series.  Full-back Israel Dagg scored the only try and fly-half  Dan Carter  kicked five penalties and a conversion last night at
Auckland’s  Eden Park  as the All Blacks extended their winning
streak to 12 matches, a run that included their first World Cup
title since 1987. It was the first time Australia failed to
score a point against New Zealand in half a century.  “We got taught lessons in many facets of the game,”
Wallabies captain Will Genia said in a televised interview.
“They dominated us in attack and defense. We didn’t front up.”  South Africa  rallied for a 16-16 tie in  Argentina  in the
other second-round match to leave New Zealand atop the southern
hemisphere championship standings. The All Blacks also hold an
unbeatable 2-0 lead in the annual Bledisloe Cup contest against
 Australia , which last held the trophy in 2002.  New Zealand hosts Argentina next in Wellington on Sept. 8,
when Australia plays South Africa in Perth.  The  top-ranked  All Blacks, who won 27-19 when the teams met
in Sydney last week, took a 9-0 halftime lead courtesy of three
Carter penalties.  Although the home team had 63 percent of the possession,
Dagg’s 47th-minute try when he crashed over from close range was
the only five-pointer of the game as the All Blacks made 17
errors as passes failed to go to hand.  Carter added two penalties in the first 10 minutes of the
second half, one of which was a 53-meter (58-yard) effort from
inside his own half, and also converted Dagg’s try to make it
22-0.  No Try  Kieran Read went close to adding New Zealand’s second try
in the 62nd minute, though television replays showed the No. 8
lost control as he attempted to ground the ball.  The All Blacks continued to dictate the final 15 minutes
though lacked the finishing to extend their lead while keeping
Australia scoreless for the first time since a 3-0 victory in
Dunedin in 1962.  “I was proud of the way the boys hung in there, but the
All Blacks are a powerhouse,” said Wallabies coach  Robbie Deans . “They are the benchmark.”  South Africa scored the final 10 points to deny Argentina
the victory in its first-ever home game in the competition.
Francois Steyn’s converted 65th-minute try completed the
comeback in Mendoza.  Santiago Fernandez touched down for Argentina, while full-
back Martin Rodriguez kicked three penalties and a conversion.
Fly-half Morne Steyn also booted three penalties and a
conversion for the Springboks, who had won all 14 previous
meetings between the teams.  “We were not good enough and they played very well, but we
let our country and ourselves down tonight,” Springboks coach
Heyneke Meyer said in a news conference.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  