-- Ohio Secretary of State Sued Over Weekend Voting Curbs
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-08-25T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/ohio-secretary-of-state-sued-over-voting-hours-directive.html
Ohio ’s Republican secretary of state
was sued by his Democratic predecessor over a directive that
makes early-voting hours uniform in all 88 of the state’s
counties in part by eliminating weekend balloting.  Secretary of State Jon Husted issued the order Aug. 15.
Former Secretary of State Jennifer Brunner, together with the
advocacy group Fair Elections Ohio and a voters’ referendum
committee, claimed Husted violated their constitutional rights
in a complaint filed today in federal court in Columbus.  Husted’s action revived portions of a repealed Ohio law,
effectively reinstating parts of the statute that curbed or
eliminated weekend early voting, the plaintiffs said. They seek
a declaratory judgment that the directive and other actions are
unconstitutional. Husted set uniform hours for in-person
absentee voting after the Ohio Democratic Party said times were
being expanded mostly in Republican-leaning counties.  Ohio holds 18 of the 270 electoral college votes needed to
win the U.S. presidency. No Republican has ever won that office
without winning Ohio. President  Barack Obama  carried the state
in 2008 with 51.5 percent of the vote.  Husted’s order came hours after a federal judge heard
arguments in a separate case brought by Obama’s campaign
challenging Ohio laws enabling military and overseas voters to
cast early-voter ballots through Nov. 5, while ending early
voting for other Ohioans Nov. 2. Election Day is Nov. 6.  Matthew McClellan, a spokesman for Husted, criticized the
new lawsuit for attacking a measure promoting uniformity, which
the Obama campaign had sought in its complaint.  “They are contradicting themselves and grasping at straws,
while we are focused on making it easy to vote and providing for
a fair, uniform and secure election,” he said.  The new case is Fair Elections Ohio v. Husted, 12-cv-00763,
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio (Columbus). The
earlier case is Obama for America v. Husted, 12-cv-636, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Ohio (Columbus).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Harris in Chicago federal court
at   aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  