-- Hollande Tells Samaras to Show Greek Commitment to Get Support
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-08-25T10:38:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/hollande-tells-samaras-to-show-greek-commitment-to-get-support.html
French President  Francois Hollande 
told Greek Prime Minister Antonis Samaras that his government
must demonstrate commitment to overhauling its economy so  Europe 
can do its part and move on from the debt crisis.  “ Greece  needs once again to demonstrate the credibility of
its program and the determination of its leaders to go all the
way,” Hollande said at a joint press conference with Samaras
after talks in Paris today. “Once these commitments, which are
not only financial but about structural reforms that the Greeks
want, have been ratified by parliament and confirmed, Europe
must do its part.”  While Hollande repeated his view that he wants Greece to
stay in the euro, his remarks underline the hardening of
 France ’s position since Greece’s budget troubles were first made
public in late 2009. Samaras, for his part, said that he’s
determined to keep his country in the 17-nation single currency.  “Many say Greece won’t make it, that it can’t stay in the
euro,” Samaras said. “I came here to say Greece will make it,
it will stay in the euro zone.”  Samaras also addressed Hollande’s concern directly, saying
the Greek government will meet its obligations. “Of course we
need to make an effort,” he said. “We can keep our promises
and goals, reduce our deficit and debt, accomplish structural
reforms.”  German Backing  The meeting comes a day after Samaras held talks with
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Berlin. Merkel said that
 Germany  will stand behind the Greek government as it struggles
to overhaul the economy and that she is “deeply convinced”
Samaras will make every effort to solve the country’s problems.  “I want Greece to stay in the euro zone and that’s what
I’m working for,” Merkel said yesterday. “Fulfilling
commitments and expectations will lead to a return of confidence
in the euro zone.”  Samaras has used interviews this week with German and
French newspapers to call for more time to meet the targets set
under its bailout agreement. European officials are awaiting a
report next month by the so-called troika of the  European
Central Bank , the European Commission and the  International
Monetary Fund  on Greece’s fiscal progress.  Hollande said today that both Greece and Europe need to put
the turmoil behind them as quickly as possible.  “It’s now been 2 1/2 years,” he said. “There’s no more
time to be lost.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  