-- Penn State Sued by 18-Year-Old Over Sandusky Sexual Abuse
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-08-25T18:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/penn-state-sued-by-18-year-old-over-sandusky-sexual-abuse.html
Pennsylvania State University  was
accused of negligence and reckless oversight in a lawsuit filed
by a victim of convicted sex offender and former coach Jerry Sandusky.  The unidentified 18-year-old, who testified against
Sandusky, accused the university of intentionally concealing
multiple episodes of sexual abuse by the former assistant
football coach and enabling him to molest many young boys on the
college campus, according to a complaint filed yesterday in
state court in Philadelphia. The complaint was filed after hours
and couldn’t be confirmed in court records.  “Penn State knew or should have known of Sandusky’s
dangerous and unnatural sexual proclivities, his sexual
activities with children and the significant risks he posed when
allowed to be in close proximity to children,” Slade McLaughlin
and Michael Boni, attorneys for the victim, said in a copy of
the complaint posted on the website of McLauhlin’s law firm.  Sandusky, 68, was convicted in June on 45 criminal counts
tied to abuse of boys over a 15-year period, including all six
counts related to a boy identified as Victim 1, the plaintiff in
the suit against the school. Sandusky is awaiting sentencing.  “The university takes these cases very seriously but
cannot otherwise comment on pending litigation,” David La
Torre, a  Penn State  spokesman, said in an e-mail. The school’s
president and board of trustees “have publicly emphasized that
their goal is to find solutions that rest on the principle of
justice for the victims,” he said.  Spending Time  Sandusky began spending time on a regular basis with Victim
1 in the summer of 2005, according to the complaint. The boy
spent nights at Sandusky’s home and traveled with him to
professional sporting events including football and baseball
games in Philadelphia, according to the complaint.  Sandusky also coached the boy’s high school varsity
football team and had “unfettered access to the school” as a
direct result of his “exalted” status at the university,
according to the complaint. Sandusky abused the boy more than
100 times from 2005 to 2008, according to trial testimony and
the complaint.  The case against Sandusky led to the firings of university
President  Graham Spanier  and  Joe Paterno , who headed the
football program at Penn State for 46 years. Paterno died in
January.  School Officials  Two other Penn State officials are charged with lying to a
grand jury about a 2001 sexual assault incident involving
Sandusky and a boy in a football locker room shower and failing
to report it to authorities. A January trial is scheduled in
that case, against Timothy Curley, Penn State’s athletic
director at the time of the allegation, and  Gary Schultz , a
former vice president in charge of university police.  A $6.5 million university-commissioned investigation by
 Louis Freeh , a former federal judge and director of the  Federal
Bureau  of Investigation, concluded that school officials hid
critical facts surrounding Sandusky’s abuse in order to avoid
bad publicity. Victim 1’s lawsuit cites both the Freeh report,
published last month, and testimony from Sandusky’s trial.  Penn State’s concealment of Sandusky’s “sociopathic
pedophilia” allowed him to exploit his affiliation with the
university and his celebrity status at the school to solicit
donations for the Second Mile charity, according to the
complaint.  Sandusky used the charity he founded in 1977 to recruit and
groom his victims. Second Mile, which served children with
physical, emotional and academic needs, announced in May that it
would close and transfer its assets to a Houston-based
nonprofit.  The victim’s case is John Doe C v. Pennsylvania State
University, 120704291, Court of Common Pleas, Philadelphia
County (Philadelphia)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  