-- Powell Warns Against Outsident Military Action in Syria
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-08-25T15:59:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/powell-warns-against-outsident-military-action-in-syria.html
Outside military involvement in
 Syria  is “probably not the solution” to the “civil war”
occurring in the country, said former U.S. Secretary of State
 Colin Powell .  Powell made the remarks in an interview with CNN’s “Fareed
Zakaria GPS” scheduled for broadcast tomorrow.  “It’s not clear to me that the outside world can do much
more than lend encouragement to his departure, perhaps provide
some limited assistance to the free Syrian forces,” Powell
said, according to a CNN transcript.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad will use violence as long
as he thinks he has a chance to stay in power, Powell said.  Powell, a former U.S. Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff,
said that creating and enforcing a no-fly zone isn’t simple
either.  “The one thing I know the administration is certainly
considering is: What do we do after Assad departs?” he said.
“I think he will eventually depart. I don’t think history is on
his side, but it’s going to be ugly for a while until that point
is reached.”  Iran’s Nuclear Program  On  Iran , Powell said it would be difficult to get the
country to stop enriching uranium.  “I would make clear that they knew from our side and from
others in the region that the consequences of them using such a
weapon would be cataclysmic,” he said. “They are the ones who
would lose the next day.”  Powell, who supported President  Barack Obama  in 2008, said
he hadn’t decided yet how he will vote this year.  “I want to see the whole picture and then ultimately I
decide who I’m going to vote for,” said Powell, who was
secretary of state under President  George W. Bush , a Republican.
“And if you knew my whole voting life pattern, I voted for
Democrats, I voted for Republicans. Until President Obama, when
I voted for him in 2008, I’d voted for 20 straight years for
Republicans.”  Powell said he thought that on foreign policy, Obama has
done “reasonably well,” avoiding new conflicts and being
“vicious” on terrorists.  The interview was recorded Aug. 9, before Zakaria was
suspended by  CNN  for plagiarism in his Time magazine column and
a CNN blog posting. Zakaria accepted responsibility, apologized
and, after an internal CNN review, was reinstated by the
network.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  