-- Treasuries End Longest Loss Streak Since 2010 on Fed Speculation
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-08-25T04:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/treasuries-end-longest-loss-streak-since-2010-on-fed-speculation.html
Treasuries rose, with 10-year notes
snapping the longest weekly losing streak since 2010, amid bets
the  Federal Reserve  will buy more debt under quantitative easing
as global economic growth slows, renewing demand for safety.  Ten-year notes gained for the first time in five weeks as
hedge-fund managers and other large speculators boosted to the
highest level since 2008  futures bets  that the securities will
rise. Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  will speak next week at a
Jackson Hole,  Wyoming , conference where he previewed monetary
stimulus programs the past two years. Yields declined even as
the U.S. prepares to auction $99 billion in notes.  “Some people believe Bernanke will set the table for more
QE,” said  Jay Mueller , who manages about $3 billion of bonds at
Wells Capital Management in  Milwaukee . “The level of
uncertainty in terms of policy is very high. The level of policy
risk in  Europe  is also overwhelmingly high. The market has
overreacted in both directions.”  The benchmark 10-year  yield  dropped 12 basis points, or
0.12 percentage point, to 1.69 percent this week in New York,
the most since June 1, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader
prices. The price of the 1.625 percent security maturing in
August 2022 gained 1 1/8, or $11.25 per $1,000 face amount, to
99 14/32.  The 10-year yield rose 35 basis points in the preceding
 four weeks , the longest stretch since the five days ended Dec.
24, 2010. It touched a record low 1.379 percent on July 25.  The  30-year bond  yield slid 13 basis points, also the most
since June 1, to 2.8 percent. It gained 39 basis points over the
previous four weeks, the longest stretch since October.  Gain Pared  U.S. government securities have lost 0.7 percent this
month, paring their 2012 return to 2 percent, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master index.  Speculative long positions on 10-year note futures, or bets
prices will rise, outnumbered short positions in the week ended
Aug. 21 by 97,540 contracts on the Chicago Board of Trade, the
most since March 2008. The so-called  net long  positions more
than tripled from a week earlier, the Washington-based
commission said in its Commitments of Traders report.  Treasuries were almost the most expensive in more than two
weeks yesterday, according to the term premium, a model created
by economists at the Fed that includes expectations for  interest
rates , growth and inflation. The gauge was negative 0.84
percent, from negative 0.85 percent two days earlier, the most
costly since Aug. 6. It reached negative 0.70 percent on Aug.
16, the least costly since May. A negative reading indicates
that investors are willing to accept yields below what’s
considered fair value.  European Turmoil  U.S.  government bonds  also climbed this week as investors
sought refuge amid concern whether European leaders will curb
the euro bloc’s almost three-year-old debt crisis.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  may not
announce a definitive bond-purchase program at the bank’s Sept.
6 meeting, two central-bank officials said yesterday. A German
court is set to rule Sept. 12 on the legality of Europe’s
permanent bailout fund, and Draghi may wait until after the
decision, the officials said. They requested anonymity because
the deliberations aren’t public.  The ECB chief announced on Aug. 2 the bank may intervene in
the secondary market to reduce bond yields in countries such as
Spain and  Italy  if they apply to Europe’s bailout fund for aid
and accept the conditions attached.  Jackson Hole  Bernanke is scheduled to speak on Aug. 31 at the Kansas
City Fed’s economic-policy conference at  Jackson Hole , where he
may clarify his thinking on the need for stimulus.  The Fed signaled this week it’s ready to take further steps
to spur the economic recovery. Many policy makers said
additional stimulus probably will be needed soon unless the
economy shows signs of a durable pickup, according to minutes
released Aug. 22 of the central bank’s most recent meeting, on
July 31-Aug. 1.  The central bank bought $2.3 trillion of debt from 2008 to
2011 in two rounds of QE. It has also kept its benchmark
interest rate at zero to 0.25 percent since December 2008 and
has pledged to hold it there until at least 2014.  “The minutes re-priced the market, and we’ve got to wait
and see the data next week,” said Thomas Connor, president and
head of trading at Pierpont Securities Holdings LLC in  Stamford ,
 Connecticut .  Bernanke said in a letter dated Aug. 22 to Representative
 Darrell Issa , a California Republican who chairs the House
Oversight and Government Reform Committee, that the Fed has the
ability to take additional steps to boost the economy.  ‘Further Action’  “There is scope for further action by the Federal Reserve
to ease financial conditions and strengthen the recovery,”
Bernanke said in the letter.  U.S. gross domestic product rose in the second quarter by
1.7 percent on an annualized basis, according to the forecast of
66 economists before the Commerce Department reports the data on
Aug. 29. While the figure is larger than the initial estimate of
1.5 percent released last month, it remained lower than the 2
percent growth in the first quarter and the 4.1 percent pace
from October through December.  China ’s purchasing managers’ index fell to 47.8 in August
from a final reading of 49.3 for July, HSBC Holdings Plc and
Markit Economics said Aug. 23. A  euro-area  composite index based
on a survey of purchasing managers in services and manufacturing
was little changed at 46.6 this month, from 46.5 in July, Markit
Economics said in  London  the same day. Figures below 50 show
contraction.  The U.S. will auction $35 billion of two-year debt on Aug.
28, the same amount of five-year notes the following day and $29
billion of seven-year securities on Aug. 30. The amounts were
unchanged from last month’s sales of the securities.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in  New York  at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  