-- Republicans Delay Convention Because of Tropical Storm Isaac
-- B y   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k   a n d   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-08-26T00:08:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/republican-convention-start-delayed-because-of-hurricane-threat.html
The first day of the  Republican
National Convention  has been postponed because Tropical Storm
Isaac is bearing down on the site in Tampa, Florida.  “Our first priority is ensuring the safety of our
delegates and guests, members of the media attending the RNC
convention and citizens of the  Tampa Bay  area,” Reince Priebus,
the Republican National Committee chairman, told reporters on a
conference call today. “Officials have predicted participants
may encounter severe transportation difficulties due to
sustained wind and rain.”  The convention will formally convene on Aug. 27 as
scheduled and then immediately recess until Aug. 28.  Convention officials are looking into alternative housing
for delegates, if needed, Priebus said. About 50,000 out-of-town
visitors will be in the Tampa area because of the convention,
including delegates, members of the media and protesters.  The decision to cancel was unanimous among members of the
 Republican National Committee  and  Mitt Romney ’s presidential
campaign, Priebus said. A revised convention program will be
issued as early as tomorrow.  Priebus said among the greatest concerns about opening day
was the fact that many of the delegates are dependent on
causeway bridges in the area to get to Tampa’s downtown where
the convention is being held.  Wind Risks  “We’re not going to put delegates on a bunch of buses over
the bridges between Clearwater and St. Pete, when we can’t
predict how severe the wind is going to be and what the damage
could possibly be,” he said.  Russ Schriefer, a senior Romney strategist, told reporters
on the conference call that some of the remaining convention
days may start early to handle the compressed schedule.  “We will absolutely be able to get our message out,” he
said. “We think that we can absolutely do it in three days.”  As of tonight, the storm was moving along the coast of
northeastern Cuba and was forecast to strengthen into a
hurricane and make landfall in the  Florida  Keys tomorrow,
according to the National Hurricane Center. Forecasts show Isaac
entering the  Gulf of Mexico  tomorrow, sending rain and storm
surges along Florida’s west coast, including Tampa Bay.  Tuesday Start  “We look forward to a great start on Tuesday and can think
of no operational reason why that won’t happen,” Bill Harris,
president and CEO of the convention, told reporters on the call.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  canceled his convention-related
activities, including his speech to delegates on Aug. 27. Scott
said he spoke to Romney today about the storm’s possible impact
on Florida, which may make landfall in the Keys tomorrow and
again in the panhandle two days later.  Vice President  Joe Biden , who planned to campaign in the
Tampa area during the rivals’ convention, canceled earlier
because of the storm.  “It is my duty to make sure we can quickly respond to the
regions affected,” Scott said in a statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 John McCormick  in Tampa, Florida at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net ;
Michael C. Bender in Tampa, Florida at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  