-- Samsung Facing Product Delays After Apple Wins U.S. Jury Verdict
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g   a n d   S a e r o m i   S h i n
-- 2012-08-25T09:48:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/samsung-facing-product-delays-after-apple-wins-u-s-jury-verdict.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  may need to
delay introducing new mobile devices so it can make design
changes after a U.S. jury ruled that the world’s top maker of
smartphones infringed Apple Inc. patents.  Apple yesterday won a $1 billion judgment that may also
halt U.S. sales of Samsung’s mobile products. The companies
return to court next month for a hearing on Apple’s request for
a permanent ban on devices including Samsung’s Galaxy Tab 10.1.  Samsung vaulted to the top of a global smartphone market
valued at $219 billion by Bloomberg Industries by introducing a
variety of Galaxy models using Google Inc.’s Android software
and gaining share over Apple’s more-limited product range. The
Suwon, South Korea-based company may have to rush to change
products under development, leading to delays as it seeks to
widen its lead.  “Samsung will have to change some products in its
pipeline,” Chang In Whan, president of Seoul-based KTB Asset
Management Co., which oversees the equivalent of $5.8 billion,
said by phone today. “There could be delays in developing and
releasing new models at a time when products are coming out
every six months.”  Samsung’s schedules for debuting new products won’t be
affected by the verdict,  James Chung , a Seoul-based spokesman
for the company, said today by phone.  Galaxy Note  Samsung has gotten around other sales bans by modifying
some features of its products. The company last year changed the
frame of a Galaxy tab model and the location of speakers after
Apple won an injunction banning its sales in  Germany .  The global lineup for the rest of this year includes the
next version of the Galaxy Note, which sold more than 10 million
units in less than a year. The company began selling a tablet
edition of the Note this month, following the May release of the
Galaxy S III, the newest version in its bestselling smartphone
series.  Samsung -- the largest maker of computer-memory chips,
flat-screen panels and TVs -- plans to spend 25 trillion won
($22 billion) this year in  capital expenditure  to boost
manufacturing capacity, including 15 trillion won for chips and
6.6 trillion won for flat-screen panels used in smartphones,
tablet computers and televisions.  “Samsung has deep pockets and they are going to change
some designs up,” said Michael Risch, a  patent law  professor at
Villanova University in  Pennsylvania . “Not being able to copy
may make them do better things than Apple.”  HTC Devices  The verdict may affect other makers of Android-based
devices. Apple has sued other smartphone makers, including  HTC
Corp. (2498) , the world’s fourth-largest smartphone maker that
generated $15.8 billion in revenue last year mostly from selling
phones such as Desire and Sensation.  “HTC would need to look very closely at the patents in
question with Apple and see which may be similar to those with
the Samsung case,” said Marcus Clinch, an intellectual property
lawyer at Eiger Law in Taipei who is not involved in any of the
cases. “Having Samsung’s products banned in the U.S. may be a
bigger danger to HTC than the damages award because of the
precedent it sets for the industry.”  Two of the patents in the case brought by Apple against
Samsung are also part of the iPhone maker’s case targeting more
than a dozen HTC devices before the International Trade
Commission. HTC declined to comment in an e-mailed response to
queries.  Android Issues  “This is an issue for the whole Android camp, not just for
Samsung,” Seo Won Seok, a Seoul-based analyst at Korea
Investment & Securities Co., said by phone.  Apple, based in Cupertino,  California , won less than half
the damages it sought from the first U.S. jury verdict in the
fight to dominate the global smartphone market, though U.S.
District Judge Lucy Koh, who presided over the four-week trial
in  San Jose , California, could later triple the damages under
federal law. Samsung avoided a finding of damages for antitrust
violations or breach of contract.  Samsung will ask the judge to overturn the verdict and, if
she doesn’t, will appeal the case, Mira Jang, a spokeswoman for
Samsung, said in an e-mail.  The “verdict should not be viewed as a win for Apple, but
as a loss for the American consumer,” Samsung said in a
separate e-mailed statement. “It is unfortunate that patent law
can be manipulated to give one company a monopoly over
rectangles with rounded corners, or technology that is being
improved every day by Samsung and other companies.”  ‘Investor Uncertainty’  Apple (AAPL)  is Samsung’s largest customer, even as they compete
selling phones that allow users to surf the Web and play games,
and fight in courts on four continents over patent infringement
claims. Apple accounts for about 9 percent of Samsung’s revenue,
making it the company’s largest customer, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Koh set a hearing for Sept. 20 on Apple’s request to bar
U.S. sales of Samsung products. She ordered Apple to file a one-
page chart by Aug. 27 identifying which devices it seeks to ban.  Samsung shares have gained almost 21 percent this year,
trailing a 64 percent jump in Apple stock.  “A final decision would’ve been less burdensome,” Heo Pil
Seok, chief executive officer at Seoul-based Midas International
Asset Management Ltd., which oversees $5 billion, said by phone
today. “It’ll take some time for an actual sales ban to take
effect, and Samsung will appeal, making it a long-term fight.  “This will be an uncertainty for Samsung, and investors
hate uncertainty the most,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net ;
Saeromi Shin in Seoul at 
 sshin15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  