-- Saudi Shares Rise to 3-Month High on Possible Stimulus
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-08-25T12:57:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/saudi-shares-rise-to-3-month-high-on-possible-stimulus.html
Shares in Saudi Arabia rose to the
highest level in more than three months on climbing oil prices
and possible U.S. monetary stimulus as the stock market reopened
following the week-long Eid holiday.  Saudi Basic Industries Corp. (SABIC) , the world’s largest
petrochemical maker known as Sabic, advanced to the highest
level since June 30.  Al-Rajhi Bank (RJHI) , the kingdom’s biggest by
market value, rose the most since Aug 4.  Dar Al Arkan Real
Estate Development Co. (ALARKAN)  increased to the highest since July 8.  The Tadawul All Share Index gained 1.4 percent to 7,104.48,
the highest since May 13, at the close in Riyadh. The Arab
world’s biggest stock market has increased 11 percent this year.  “Following the one-week break, the Saudi market will do
some catching up with international markets and events,” Asim Bukhtiar, head of research at Riyad Capital, said in response to
e-mailed questions. “Hints of stimulus and resilient crude
prices are encouraging local investors to snap-up equities.”  In the U.S., many Federal Reserve policy makers backed
monetary easing and Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  cited the ability
to stimulate growth, according to minutes of the central bank’s
last meeting on July 31-Aug. 1. Attention now turns to
Bernanke’s Aug. 31 speech in Jackson Hole, Wyoming, where he may
clarify his thinking on the need for stimulus.  Oil rose for a fourth week as Tropical Storm Isaac
strengthened in the  Caribbean Sea  on a path that may threaten
crude production in the Gulf of Mexico. Crude for October
delivery slid 12 cents to settle at $96.15 a barrel on the  New
York  Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Prices rose 14 cents this
week. Oil has rallied 24 percent since this year’s closing low
of $77.69 reached on June 28.  Sabic gained 1.4 percent to 92.50 riyals, Al-Rajhi
increased 0.7 percent to 74 riyals and Dar Al Arkan advanced 7
percent to 9.95 riyals.  Saudi Arabia (SASEIDX) ’s stock exchange is the only Persian Gulf
bourse operating on Saturdays. The Saudi market was closed last
week for the Muslim Eid holiday after the end of Ramadan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  