-- South African Mines May Move to Centralized Labor Talks Over Pay
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-08-25T14:05:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/south-african-mines-may-move-to-centralized-labor-talks-over-pay.html
South Africa ’s government agreed
with gold and platinum mining companies to create a system to
centralize negotiations with unions on labor issues after 44
people were killed in clashes at a  Lonmin Plc (LMI)  mine.  The Chamber of Mines, executives from mining companies,
Mines Minister Susan Shabangu and Labor Minister Mildred Oliphant met today, Shabangu’s ministry said today in an e-
mailed statement. The system will formalize talks between
employers and employees, the Pretoria-based ministry said.  “The current status quo wherein each company negotiates
individually has created opportunity for non-recognized labor
structures to make demands outside the agreed and recognized
forums,” the ministry said.  President  Jacob Zuma  named a three-person panel to
investigate the deaths of miners, police and security guards at
Lonmin’s Marikana mine this month. The Congress of South African
Trade Unions, the nation’s largest trade federation, and
Johannesburg-based Lonmin have said that a splinter union
sparked a protest among rock drillers at the platinum mine.  Cosatu, as the trade group is known, has said that it will
not allow member National Union of Mineworkers to lose influence
because of the Association of Mineworkers and Construction
Union, which has been recruiting its members.  Lonmin has declined 45 percent in the past year to 640
pence by the close in  London  yesterday. The company’s eastern
shafts were operating today with a 57 percent attendance rate
from workers, Lonmin said in a statement today. The rest of its
mines in the area were shut for a scheduled “off-weekend,”
while talks continue to resolve the situation, it said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nasreen Seria at 
 nseria@bloomberg.net  