-- Storm Watches Posted for Florida as Isaac Nears Haiti
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-25T04:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/storm-watches-posted-for-florida-as-isaac-nears-haiti.html
Tropical Storm Isaac was set to make
landfall in Haiti overnight, slamming into the poorest country
in the Western Hemisphere before heading toward Cuba and the
Florida Keys. Some energy output in the  Gulf of Mexico  was shut.  The core of the storm, which may threaten the  Republican
National Convention  in Tampa next week, is projected to cross
Haiti on a track toward Cuba and the eastern Gulf, where it’s
forecast to become a hurricane, the U.S. National Hurricane
Center said.  “It’s important not to focus on the exact track due to
uncertainties in the forecast and the fact that Isaac has a
large area of tropical storm-force winds associated with it,”
the center said in advisory yesterday. Those winds extend 230
miles (370 kilometers) from the core.  As much as 20 inches (51 centimeters) of rain and life-
threatening floods and mudslides are possible on the island of
Hispaniola, which includes  Haiti  and the Dominican Republic, the
center said. A half-million Haitians are still living in
temporary housing since a devastating 2010 earthquake.  The Gulf region is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil
production, 7 percent of natural-gas output and 44 percent of
refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  More than 50,000 people are expected to visit the Tampa Bay
area on Florida’s west coast next week as Republicans hold their
four-day meeting, said James Davis, a convention spokesman.  Isaac’s Position  Isaac was 65 miles south-southwest of Port-au-Prince, Haiti,
as of 11 p.m. East Coast time last night, the Miami-based
hurricane center said in  an advisory . The system was moving
northwest at 14 miles per hour and had top sustained winds of 70
mph.  “Isaac is getting better organized as it moves
northwestward,” the 11 p.m. advisory said. “The center of
Isaac should make landfall in Haiti.”  The center’s  current tracking map  shows Isaac nearing the
Florida Keys tomorrow and becoming a hurricane on Aug. 27, the
opening day of the convention that is expected to nominate  Mitt Romney  as the Republican presidential candidate. The storm may
go ashore the next day on the Florida Panhandle, the center said.  BP Plc (BP/)  began evacuating its Thunder Horse oil platform in
the Gulf and suspended crude and natural gas production there in
anticipation of the storm. The London-based company also plans
to remove non-essential workers from its Na Kika, Horn Mountain
and Marlin platforms, Arturo Silva, a BP spokesman, said in an
e-mailed statement.  Blind Faith  The  Williams Companies Inc. (WMB)  was securing the Blind Faith,
Devils Tower and Canyon Station platforms in the eastern Gulf of
Mexico. Based on Isaac’s projected track, the company expected
to shut the platforms and evacuate workers tomorrow or Aug. 27,
a notice posted on Williams’ website showed.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc. (RDSA) ,
 Eni SpA (ENI) ,  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO)  and  Ensco
Plc (ESV)  said they were evacuating nonessential workers. Shell said
on its website that drilling operations have been suspended on
some central and eastern Gulf assets, though production hasn’t
been affected. Murphy also halted drilling operations, Barry Jeffery, a company spokesman, said by e-mail.  Transocean said it evacuated 18 non-essential workers from
the Discoverer Enterprise rig. The company has 14 rigs in the
area where the storm is projected to go, according to  Guy Cantwell , a Transocean spokesman.  “Based on the projected track of Isaac, most energy
platforms and rigs will be on the less-destructive side of
Isaac,”  Jim Rouiller , senior energy meteorologist at
Planalytics Inc. in Berwyn, Pennsylvania, wrote in an e-mail.  Hurricane Watch  A hurricane watch, meaning hurricane conditions are
possible within 24 to 36 hours, was posted for the Florida Keys
and the southern coast of the peninsula from Ocean Reef on the
Atlantic side to Bonita Beach on the Gulf. Watches and warnings
have also been posted for parts of Cuba, the Bahamas and Jamaica.  Tampa, on Florida’s Gulf coast, is the state’s second-
biggest metropolitan area, after Miami, with nearly 2.8 million
people, Census data show. The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site of the
gathering, is in a mandatory evacuation zone once storms reach
96 mph, a Category 2 on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale ,
according to the Hillsborough County Hurricane Guide.  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  said last night that Isaac
wouldn’t cause delays at the Republican National Convention in
Tampa. Few delegates have canceled, he said. Scott is scheduled
to deliver a speech to the convention on Aug. 27.  Storm Debby  Parts of Franklin and Wakulla counties in the Florida
panhandle are still flooded from Tropical Storm Debby in June,
and the state would be “lucky” if the storm dissipated over
Cuba, he said.  “The longer it could spend over Cuba, the better for
everybody,” Scott said.  Mississippi Governor Phil Bryant put on hold his plans to
attend the Republican convention as Isaac’s track became better-
defined, Mick Bullock, the governor’s spokesman, said yesterday
by e-mail.  “We are monitoring the situation hourly and will decide at
the proper time if the governor can attend,” Bullock said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in  New York  at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story: Dan Stets at
   dstets@bloomberg.net  