-- Syrian Forces Press Against Rebels in Aleppo, Damascus
-- B y   G l e n   C a r e y
-- 2012-08-26T07:24:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/syrian-forces-press-offensive-against-rebels-in-aleppo-damascus.html
Syrian forces used helicopters and
heavy weapons as they tried to push rebels from Aleppo and
Damascus after United Nations monitors completed their
withdrawal from the country.  Government forces attacked rebel positions in Aleppo, the
country’s largest city, with helicopter gunships, the  Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights  said on its Facebook page
yesterday. Clashes also took place around Damascus and in Daraa,
the U.K.-based group said.  Syrian President Bashar al-Assad’s forces killed 440 people
yesterday, the opposition Local Coordination Committees said in
an e-mailed statement. Among the victims were 221 people in the
Damascus suburb of Dariya, the opposition Syrian National
Council said on its Facebook page. Many of the dead in Dariya
were killed execution-style, the Coordination Committees said.
Thirty-nine soldiers died in the fighting yesterday, the Syrian
Observatory for  Human Rights  said.  State-run Syrian television said Syrian forces had killed
“terrorists” in Dariya and confiscated weapons and explosives.  International efforts have failed to halt a 17-month
uprising against Assad that, according to the opposition Syrian
Observatory, has claimed more than 23,000 lives. UN military
monitors completed their departure Aug. 24 after the two sides
failed to observe an April cease-fire. The UN envoy for  Syria ,
 Kofi Annan , resigned this month.  Assad’s Departure  Outside military involvement in Syria is “probably not the
solution” to the “civil war” occurring in the country, former
U.S. Secretary of State  Colin Powell  said in an interview with
 CNN ’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” scheduled for broadcast today.  “It’s not clear to me that the outside world can do much
more than lend encouragement to his departure, perhaps provide
some limited assistance to the free Syrian forces,” Powell
said, according to a CNN transcript.  Powell, a former chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of
Staff, said the U.S. administration is considering what will
happen after Assad leaves power.  “I think he will eventually depart,” Powell said. “I
don’t think history is on his side, but it’s going to be ugly
for a while until that point is reached.”  Lebanon Involvement  The fighting has started to spill into Lebanon. A Sunni
Muslim sheikh was killed last week by a sniper in the northern
Lebanese city of Tripoli, where clashes between supporters and
opponents of the Syrian government have flared up this month.
The death of Sheikh Khaled al-Baradei sparked fresh clashes
between anti-Syrian Sunni Muslims and Alawites who support
Assad, Lebanon’s official National News Agency said yesterday.  Assad and most of his top officials come from the Alawite
sect, affiliated with Shiite Islam. The majority of Syria’s
population and many leaders of the armed uprising are Sunni.  Rebel forces are fighting to seize control of al-Bukmal
city in the Deir Ezzor province in Syria’s oil-rich east, the
Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said on Facebook. The city
lies across from the Iraqi border town of al-Qaim. Rebels seized
control of the border post outside of Bukmal in July.  The number of refugees who have fled Syria exceeds 200,000,
 Al Jazeera  reported, citing the UN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Glen Carey in Riyadh at 
 gcarey8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  