-- Isaac May Become Hurricane, Reach Florida Keys Tomorrow
-- B y   A s j y l y n   L o d e r   a n d   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-08-25T12:05:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/hurricane-watch-posted-for-florida-keys-as-isaac-nears-haiti.html
Tropical Storm Isaac left the coast
of Haiti on a path toward Cuba and the Florida Keys, where it is
forecast to arrive tomorrow at hurricane strength, the U.S.
National Hurricane Center said. Some energy output in the  Gulf
of Mexico  is shut.  The Keys and parts of southern Florida’s west coast were
put under a hurricane warning today, while areas of the state’s
southeastern coast are on a hurricane watch, the center in Miami
said in an  advisory  on its website at 8 a.m. local time.  Isaac, which may threaten the Republican National
Convention in Tampa next week, had maximum sustained winds of 60
miles per hour (95 kilometers per hour) and was moving northwest
at 14 mph. The system was centered about 90 miles east-southeast
of Guantanamo, Cuba.  A hurricane watch, meaning hurricane conditions are
possible within 24 hours to 36 hours, was posted for all of the
Florida Keys, Florida Bay, the state’s west coast from Bonita
Beach southward and the east coast from Golden Beach southward.
The government of the Bahamas has also issued a hurricane watch
for Andros Island.  Energy companies including  BP Plc (BP/)  began suspending crude
and gas operations in the Gulf region, home to 23 percent of
U.S. oil production, 7 percent of natural-gas output and 44
percent of refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy
Department.  Heavy Rain  As much as 20 inches (51 centimeters) of rain and life-
threatening mudslides are possible on the island of Hispaniola,
which includes Haiti and the Dominican Republic, the center
said. As much as 12 inches of rain could fall across central and
eastern parts of Cuba, the Florida Keys and the southern
peninsula of Florida.  The hurricane threatens to disrupt the opening day of the
Republican Party convention, which begins on Aug. 27.  Mitt Romney  is expected to be nominated as the party’s presidential
candidate during the four-day event.  More than 50,000 people are expected to visit the Tampa Bay
area next week as Republicans hold their meeting, said James
Davis, a convention spokesman. The Tampa Bay Times Forum, site
of the gathering, is in a mandatory-evacuation zone once storms
reach 96 mph, Category 2 on the five-step  Saffir-Simpson scale ,
according to the Hillsborough County Hurricane Guide.  Few Cancellations  Florida Governor  Rick Scott  said yesterday at a news
briefing in the state capital, Tallahassee, that Isaac wouldn’t
cause delays at the convention. Few delegates had canceled, he
said. Scott is scheduled to deliver a speech to the convention
on Aug. 27.  Vice President  Joe Biden  canceled a plan to visit Tampa
during the convention on Aug. 27 because of concern that the
trip may disrupt disaster planning, according to a statement
from President Barack Obama’s re-election campaign.  A half-million Haitians are still living in temporary
housing since a devastating 2010 earthquake. The country had a
population of 10.1 million last year and gross domestic product
of $7.3 billion, according to data on the website of the  World
Bank , which describes it as a so-called low-income nation.  BP began evacuating its Thunder Horse platform in the Gulf
and suspended crude and natural-gas production there before the
storm. The London-based company also plans to remove non-
essential workers from its Na Kika, Horn Mountain and Marlin
platforms, Arturo Silva, a BP spokesman, said in a statement.  Gulf Preparations  The  Williams Co. (WMB)  was securing the Blind Faith, Devils Tower
and Canyon Station platforms in the eastern Gulf of Mexico.
Based on Isaac’s projected track, the company expected to shut
the platforms and evacuate workers Aug. 26 or Aug. 27, a notice
posted on Williams’s website showed.  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ,  Murphy Oil Corp. (MUR) ,  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ,  Eni
SpA (ENI) ,  Apache Corp. (APA) ,  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO)  and  Ensco Plc (ESV) 
said they were evacuating nonessential workers. Shell said on
its website that drilling operations have been suspended on some
central and eastern Gulf assets, though production hasn’t been
affected. Murphy also halted drilling operations, Barry Jeffery,
a company spokesman, said by e-mail.  Transocean said that it evacuated 18 non-essential workers
from the Discoverer Enterprise rig. The company has 14 rigs in
the projected storm path, according to  Guy Cantwell , a
Transocean spokesman.  Isaac is the ninth named storm of the Atlantic hurricane
season this year. The National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration, which includes the National Hurricane Center,
said there may be as many as 17 named storms this season,
including hurricanes, according to a statement on Aug. 9.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Asjylyn Loder in New York at 
 aloder@bloomberg.net ;
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  