-- Van Persie Gets First Goal as Manchester United Beats Fulham
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-08-25T18:58:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/van-persie-gets-first-goal-as-manchester-united-beats-fulham-3-2.html
Robin  van Persie  scored his first
Manchester United goal in a 3-2 victory over Fulham, as Chelsea
made it three straight wins to start the season in English
soccer’s Premier League.  Shinji Kagawa and Rafael da Silva also scored at Old
Trafford as United rebounded from last week’s season-opening
loss at Everton. Chelsea beat Newcastle 2-0, Swansea beat West
Ham 3-0 and Everton defeated Aston Villa 3-1.  Wigan won 2-0 at Southampton, West Brom snatched a last-
second 1-1 tie at Tottenham, Norwich and QPR drew 1-1 and the
Sunderland-Reading game was postponed by a wet field.  Van Persie, who led the league with 30 goals last season,
was given the start in his home debut after signing from Arsenal
with  Wayne Rooney  relegated to the bench.  Fulham took the lead in the third minute on a goal from
Damien Duff, but Van Persie tied the score seven minutes later
by putting Patrice Evra’s cross past Mark Schwarzer.  Kagawa gave United the lead in the 35th minute and da Silva
scored with a header before halftime. Fulham drew within 3-2 on
Nemanja Vidic’s own goal the 64th minute.  Rooney replaced Kagawa four minutes later and left the
field on a stretcher in injury time with a deep gash on his leg
after colliding with  Hugo Rodallega . He was taken to the
hospital and may be out as long as four weeks, manager  Alex Ferguson  said on the club’s website.  Eden Hazard and  Fernando Torres  scored as Chelsea beat
Newcastle at home to top the standings with the maximum nine
points from three games.  Nine Points  Hazard gave the Blues a 1-0 lead with a penalty kick in the
22nd minute after Torres was taken down in the area. The two
combined for the second goal just before halftime with Torres
scoring off a pass from Hazard.  Miguel Michu, Angel Rangel and  Danny Graham  scored as
Swansea beat West Ham in its home opener. The Swans have won
their first two games for new manager Michael Laudrup by a
combined score of 8-0.  Steven Pienaar,  Marouane Fellaini  and Nikica Jelvaic scored
as Everton ended a seven-match winless run at Villa Park.
Villa’s Ciaran Clark was red-carded early in the second half,
with Karim El Ahmadi scoring a consolation goal for the hosts in
the 74th minute.  Second-half goals from Franco Di Santo and Arouna Kone gave
Wigan the away win at newly promoted Southampton.  James Morrison 
scored in the final minute to give West Brom the draw with
Tottenham, which got a goal from Benoit Assou-Ekotto.  Norwich and QPR tied in a meeting of teams that both lost
their openers 5-0. Damian Jackson scored for Norwich and Bobby Zamora answered for QPR by putting in the rebound after  John
Ruddy  stopped Djibril Cisse’s penalty kick.  Sunderland’s home opener against Reading was called off
after heavy rain left the field at the Stadium of Light
unplayable. No make-up date was announced.  Arsenal visits Stoke and Liverpool hosts defending champion
Manchester City in tomorrow’s games.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 