-- Venezuelan Refinery Blast Death Toll Reaches at Least 26
-- B y   D a n i e l   C a n c e l   a n d   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-08-26T04:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/venezuelan-refinery-explosion-death-toll-climbs-to-at-least-19.html
A gas explosion at  Venezuela ’s
biggest  oil refinery  yesterday killed at least 39 people and
injured 86, shutting down the Amuay refinery, located about 240
miles west of Caracas.  Stella Lugo, governor of Falcon state in western Venezuela,
described the blast which occurred at 1:15 a.m. yesterday as
similar to an earthquake and said 219 homes near the refinery
were affected. Paraguana, which comprises the Amuay, Bajo Grande
and Cardon refineries, is the world’s second-biggest refinery
complex.  “There was a gas leak that caused an explosion and the
blast caused severe damage to a national guard post and an
adjacent housing complex,” said  Rafael Ramirez , the country’s
oil minister and head of state oil company Petroleos de
Venezuela SA. Videos posted on the Internet by witnesses showed
flames and smoke billowing from the area.  PDVSA, as the state-owned oil producer is known, is the
sole owner and operator of the refinery. The blast is among the
world’s deadliest at an oil refinery. Fifteen workers were
killed at  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Texas City refinery in 2005, while more than
50 people died in a fire at Hindustan Petroleum Corp.’s refinery
in Visakhapatnam,  India , in 1997.  The national guard stationed at the refinery bore the brunt
of the deaths, including 18 troops and 15 family members, Vice
President Elias Jaua said on television. Six bodies are as yet
unidentified. Firefighters hope to extinguish blazes at two
 storage tanks  within hours, he added.  Production Halt  Amuay, with the  capacity  to process 645,000 barrels of oil
a day, was halted as a result of the explosion, Ramirez said.
The Paraguana complex has a capacity of about 950,000 barrels a
day, second in size to  Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) ’s Jamnagar
refinery in India, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The fire didn’t cause any structural damage to the main
refining units and PDVSA has 10 days of inventory to meet its
supply obligations internally and externally, Ramirez said.  “The U.S. distillate market is tighter than a drum, any
sustained refinery outage that calls on more Gulf Coast exports
is problematic,” Robert MacMinn, a principal at clean product
trader CAN-OP based in Thunder Bay, Canada, said by e-mail.  The refinery will resume operations within two days,
Ramirez said yesterday. The blast affected nine storage tanks
for crude and products, he said.  Offshore Storage  PDVSA won’t declare force majeure on its exports from Amuay,
a mechanism to temporarily suspend the obligation to make
shipments due to unforeseen events, and will set up floating
storage facilities offshore to compensate for the damaged tanks,
Reuters reported, citing a phone interview with Ramirez.  President  Hugo Chavez , 58, who is currently campaigning for
re-election in October, said he’s “profoundly saddened” by the
incident and declared three days of mourning across the country.
Chavez said he’s ordered an investigation into the explosion.  The electoral council suspended until Sept. 2 a practice
run scheduled today for the Oct. 7 elections, electoral council
President Tibisay Lucena said in a televised press conference.  The government already has been contending with the
collapse of a bridge on the main highway from the capital to the
east of the country, flooding in areas of Sucre state and a
prison riot that killed 25 people on Aug. 20.  Tropical Storm  Energy companies including BP have begun suspending some
crude and gas operations in the Gulf of  Mexico  region as
Tropical Storm Isaac heads toward Cuba and the Florida Keys. The
area is home to 23 percent of U.S. oil production and 44 percent
of refining capacity, according to the U.S. Energy Department.  Venezuela, one of the 12 members of the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries and  South America ’s biggest crude
producer, had average output of 2.7 million barrels of oil a day
last year, according to BP  statistics . Its main export markets
are the U.S. and  China .  The accident is the latest outage affecting Venezuela’s oil
processing industry,  Andy Lipow , president of Houston-based
Lipow Oil Associates LLC, said by phone.  Cardon has closed units several times this year after
incidents, and PDVSA had to halt production and evacuate workers
from its Petropiar heavy-crude upgrader last year after a gas
leak and a fire.  Jose Bodas, an oil union leader who is critical of the
government, told Globovision that PDVSA has ignored calls by
workers to improve “hazardous” working conditions at
refineries.  Safety Standards  PDVSA has an “ongoing challenge” in implementing “very
high safety standards” that are up to par with other refineries
around the world, Roger Tissot, managing director at Tissot
Associates and a Latin American energy analyst, said in a
telephone interview.  “It’s something that was known that they had a problem
with safety standards, but now with this tragedy, they cannot
ignore it anymore,” Tissot said. “To me, this is really a
wake-up call for PDVSA to really, really improve their safety
standards.”  Seven out of nine planned maintenance programs for the
Amuay refinery were postponed during 2011 because of a lack of
materials, according to PDVSA’s 2011 annual report.  Jesus Luongo, head of refining at the Paraguana refining
complex, ruled out lack of maintenance as a cause of the
accident, saying PDVSA has invested $6 billion in maintenance of
refineries in the past three years.  “We have a rigorous maintenance program,” Luongo said on
state television. “I’d like to debunk emphatically that line of
thinking that says that events occur because of a lack of
maintenance.”  Drilling Rig  In 2010, a failure in the floating device of an offshore
drilling rig caused the Aban Pearl to sink off the eastern coast
of Venezuela. PDVSA rescued all 95 people on board.  Venezuela was the fourth-largest source of crude oil for
the U.S. in May, after  Canada ,  Saudi Arabia  and Mexico, at
821,000 barrels a day, based on data from the U.S. Energy
Information Agency.  The incident will probably have little effect on crude
prices, while possibly putting “upward pressure” on gasoline
and distillate prices, Lipow said. The refinery supplies a
“significant portion” of its products to the domestic market,
he said.  The accident is one of the worst at a refinery in recent
memory, Lipow said. “This is one of the extremes. It’s quite
extensive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Cancel in Caracas at 
 dcancel@bloomberg.net ;
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Attwood at 
 jattwood3@bloomberg.net  