-- Wen Says China Need Measures to Promote Export Growth
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-08-25T16:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/wen-says-china-should-adopt-measures-to-promote-export-growth.html
Premier  Wen Jiabao  said China needs
targeted measures to promote steady export growth, which will
help the nation meet its annual economic goals, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported.  The country must pay attention to problems in imports and
 exports , Xinhua cited Wen as saying during an inspection tour in
Guangdong, China’s biggest exporting province. He reiterated the
government needs to increase the intensity of macro-economic
adjustments to stabilize expansion in the second half of the
year.  China’s export growth collapsed to 1 percent in July while
industrial output and new  yuan  loans trailed estimates,
heightening concerns that a slowdown in the world’s second-
biggest economy is deepening. A private survey on Aug. 23 showed
manufacturing may contract in August at the fastest pace in nine
months and a gauge of new export orders was at its lowest level
in more than three years.  “There will still be a lot of problems and uncertainties
in exports going forward,” Xinhua cited Wen as saying during a
two-day visit to the southern province that ended yesterday.
“The third quarter is a crucial period for realizing full-year
targets on export growth.”  Overseas shipments in the first seven months of the year
rose 7.8 percent and imports gained 6.4 percent, putting  China 
at risk of missing its 10 percent goal of trade expansion for
the year. July’s export growth was the lowest since 2009,
excluding distortions caused by the timing of the Lunar New Year
holiday. Imports rose 4.7 percent from a year earlier, trailing
analysts’ estimates.  Yuan Gains  Measures that will help exports include speedier payment of
export tax rebates and an expansion in financial products used
to hedge foreign exchange risks, Wen was cited as saying. The
Xinhua and state television reports of his comments made no
mention of the Chinese currency.  The central bank has halted gains in the yuan this year,
providing some help to exporters amid deteriorating global
demand. The currency has dropped by almost 1 percent against the
 U.S. dollar  this year after a 4.7 percent gain in 2011.  China should expand imports, especially high-end equipment
and critical components, as well as daily consumer products,
Xinhua cited Wen as saying. The nation should also deal
appropriately with trade friction and reduce the risk and impact
of such incidents, he said.  The country is embroiled in a series of disputes with
trading partners over issues such as rare-earth minerals, solar
panels and  wind turbines .  Trade Spats  The  World Trade Organization ’s judges will probe China’s
export quotas and tariffs on rare earths, tungsten and
molybdenum, following complaints by the U.S., European Union and
 Japan  that the curbs break global commerce rules. U.S. President
 Barack Obama  last month accused China of imposing unfair taxes
on American vehicles, mostly from General Motors Co. and
Chrysler Group LLC.  China’s economy  expanded 7.6 percent in the second quarter
from a year earlier, the least in three years, as  Europe ’s debt
crisis and elevated unemployment in the U.S. crimped export
growth, and a prolonged crackdown on property speculation curbed
domestic demand.  The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  of stocks fell to
the lowest level since March 2009 on Aug. 24 on concern the
nation’s economic slowdown is hurting corporate earnings.  Slowing Demand  China Shipping Development Co. said on Aug. 22 it is
seeking to delay delivery of 10 new commodity and oil vessels as
slowing demand and a global glut damped rates. The Shanghai-
based ship operator swung to a loss in the first half of the
year and predicted it would remain unprofitable for the nine
months ending September.  Bank of America Corp. and Deutsche Bank AG this month
reduced their forecasts for China’s economic expansion in 2012
to 7.7 percent, which would be the slowest pace in 13 years. Wen
in March set a target of 7.5 percent.  Wen said there are still many “negative factors that will
affect stable economic operations in the second half” and the
difficulties of stabilizing economic growth are “still
relatively large.”  “Facing the current difficulties, we have to improve the
operating environment for companies and enhance the corporate
confidence,” Xinhua cited Wen as saying.  Good Results  Even so, “China’s economic fundamentals haven’t changed,
and we have a lot of good conditions and optimistic factors that
will help stabilize  growth ,” Xinhua cited Wen as saying. The
central government has been enhancing policy fine-tuning, and
has achieved good results on stabilizing economic growth and
improving market confidence, he said.  The premier visited the cities of Guangzhou, Foshan and
Dongguan, according to  China Central Television , whose footage
showed Wen accompanied by the province’s Communist Party chief
Wang Yang.  Wang is a candidate for the Politburo Standing Committee,
the party’s highest decision-making body, in China’s once-a-
decade leadership transition later this year.  Wen said he has “faith in Guangdong’s future,” CCTV
reported. The province’s development outlook “will get even
better,” he said.  Guangdong was the biggest contributor to China’s economy in
2010, accounting for about 11 percent of gross domestic product
and 30 percent of the nation’s exports, statistics bureau data
show.  The province, which grew 7.4 percent in the first half, is
set for the weakest full-year expansion since 1989 as toy, shoe
and textile industries move inland or abroad and a
transformation to higher-value production and services remains
unfinished.  Dongguan’s expansion in the first half of the year was 2.5
percent compared with 7.8 percent for the nation as a whole,
government data show.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Chua Baizhen in Beijing at 
 bchua14@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  