-- Nomura Said to Focus on Fewer Industries Amid Europe Job Cuts
-- B y   L i a m   V a u g h a n   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-09-05T20:48:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/young-british-doctors-choosing-australia-over-u-k-ft-reports.html
Nomura Holdings Inc.  will start
cutting jobs in Europe this month as it pares ambitions to be a
full-service, global investment bank and takes a narrower focus
on four or five industries in the region, according to three
people with knowledge of the situation.  The reductions will fall most heavily in equity sales and
trading and in investment banking, said the people, who asked
not to be identified ahead of an announcement today. Around 200
jobs could be cut in equities, including about 12 managing
directors, one of the people said. No final decisions on job
cuts have been made, the three people said.  The European investment-banking division, which advises
companies on mergers and underwrites share and bond issues, will
be shrunk to focus on financial services, natural resources,
industrial companies and private equity, two people said. The
fixed-income unit will remain largely intact, all three said.  The move marks a retreat in the Japanese bank’s four-year
struggle to build a presence in the region which began with the
2008 purchase of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.’s European arm.
 Koji Nagai , 53, who took over as chief executive officer from
 Kenichi Watanabe  last month following an insider-trading
scandal, is scaling back after the Tokyo-based bank’s non-
Japanese business reported nine consecutive quarterly losses.  The brokerage employed 3,975 people in Europe and 2,423 in
the Americas, mostly in New York, among its 35,063 staff
globally at the end of June. Officials at the bank declined to
comment.  Japan Refocus  The firm will refocus on domestic markets and cut spending
overseas by around $1 billion by 2014, Nagai said on Aug. 31.
That follows $1.2 billion in cost cuts last year.  William Vereker , the former Lehman banker who jointly ran
the investment bank globally, was made vice-chairman of the
business this week, leaving  Kentaro Okuda  as the unit’s sole
leader.  James DeNaut  and  Charles Pitts-Tucker  were named joint
international heads of investment banking, reporting to Okuda.  Watanabe, 59, and former Chief Operating Officer  Takumi Shibata , architects of the Lehman purchase, stepped down in July
after Japan’s financial regulator found that employees leaked
information on share sales managed by the company.  Shares of Nomura , which touched a 37-year low in November,
have gained about 12 percent this year, compared with the Nikkei
225 Index’s 2.7 percent advance.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Liam Vaughan in London at 
 lvaughan6@bloomberg.net ;
Zijing Wu in London at 
 zwu17@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  