-- Young Smokers Risk Cardio Disease From Artery Damage, Study Says
-- B y   M e h r e e n   K h a n
-- 2012-08-25T10:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-08-25/young-smokers-risk-cardio-disease-from-artery-damage-study-says.html
People who smoke cigarettes at a
young age already have significant artery damage that can lead
to cardiovascular disease, a study done by Swiss researchers
shows.  A narrowing of the carotid artery, known as CIMT, was
detected in young regular smokers between 8 and 20 years of age,
according to research led by  Julia Dratva , a doctor at the Swiss
Tropical and Public Health Institute, and presented at the
 European Society of Cardiology  in Munich today. Tobacco
cigarettes caused an increased thickness of 0.043 millimeters in
blood vessels compared to adolescent non-smokers, the study
found.  CIMT is an accepted indicator of atherosclerosis, a
condition caused by a clogging of the arteries leading to
restricted blood flow. The link between smoking and
cardiovascular disease is well-established in adults and is now
proven in adolescents, said Dratva in a statement. “After a
relatively short duration of active smoking, the vascular
structure already shows signs of structural changes,” she said.  Tobacco kills almost 6 million people each year, of whom
five million are users and former users, and more than 600,000
are non-smokers exposed to second-hand smoke, according to the
 World Health Organization .  The young people in the study had been smoking for an
average of 2.3 years to 4.3 years, and were part of the Swiss
Study on Air Pollution and Lung and Heart Disease.  Atherosclerosis in children can begin in the womb as
passive tobacco smoke crosses the placenta, leading to low
birth-weight and impaired lung development. The condition can
lead to blood clots and strokes later on in life.  The greater the duration of smoking, the greater the
thickness observed in the carotid artery, Dratva said. “Urgent
action is needed to help adolescent smokers kick the habit and
stop others from taking up smoking.”  For Related News and Information:
Bloomberg drug data: BDRG
For health policy stories: TNI US HCP BN
Top stories about science: TNI SCIENCE WWTOP
Top health stories: HTOP  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mehreen Khan in London at 
 mkhan108@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  