-- L’Oreal ‘Pink Petal’ Tops List of 400 Lipsticks Containing Lead
-- B y   A n n a   E d n e y
-- 2012-02-14T20:14:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/l-oreal-pink-petal-tops-list-of-400-lipsticks-containing-lead-fda-says.html
Four hundred types of lipstick from
brands such as  L’Oreal SA (OR)  and  The Procter & Gamble Co.  contain
trace amounts of lead, according to U.S. regulators who are
evaluating whether to recommend an acceptable limit.  L’Oreal’s Color Sensational Pink Petal topped the list of
brands purchased between February and July 2010 that were tested
for lead by the  Food and Drug Administration , with 7.19 parts
per million, the agency said on its  website . Paris-based L’Oreal
made half of the 10 lipsticks with the highest lead levels,
though all are safe, the FDA said.  Products sampled in 2010 had average concentrations of 1.11
parts per million, close to the average of 1.07 parts per
million in a smaller survey the FDA conducted in 2007. Lead
exposure can lead to kidney damage, reduced IQ and behavioral
and attention problems, according to the  National Institutes of
Health , with pregnant women and young children most vulnerable.
The agency doesn’t set limits for lead in cosmetics.  “Lipstick, as a product intended for topical use with
limited absorption, is ingested only in very small quantities,”
the agency said on its website. “The lead levels we found are
within the limits recommended by other public health
authorities.”  L’Oreal lipsticks are in compliance with FDA regulations and
European Union requirements for consumer safety, L’Oreal
spokeswoman Rebecca Caruso said in an e-mailed statement from
L’Oreal.  “L’Oreal maintains the highest standards for safety and
consumers can use all of our products with complete
confidence,” she said in the statement.  The  Campaign for Safe Cosmetics  tested 33 lipsticks for
lead in 2007 and found more than half contained the metal. The
Washington-based campaign called on makers to remove lead and
renewed the push earlier this month, singling out L’Oreal.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Edney in Washington at 
 aedney@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  