-- ABN Amro May Cut 15% of Clearing Unit Jobs in Reorganization
-- B y   M a u d   v a n   G a a l
-- 2012-02-14T16:06:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/abn-amro-may-reduce-15-of-clearing-division-jobs-in-reorganization.html
ABN Amro  Group NV, the Dutch lender
nationalized in 2008, said it may cut about 15 percent of jobs
at the firm’s clearing unit amid an overhaul.  “About 60 full time jobs out of 395 are in scope in this
reorganization,” said Jeroen van Maarschalkerweerd, a spokesman
for the Amsterdam-based bank. The cuts are a part of the
integration of former Fortis and ABN units following their
takeover by the Dutch state and also fit in with a group-wide
program to increase efficiency, he said.  ABN Amro Clearing , a unit of ABN Amro Group with its own
banking license in the Netherlands, plans to reduce its custody
and brokerage activities as it focuses on the clearing business,
Van Maarschalkerweerd said. Custody and brokerage activities for
retail clients will be moved to ABN Amro Bank in Breda, the
Netherlands, he said.  ABN Amro Clearing, which ranks itself among the world’s
three-biggest clearing operations, has lost business to BNP
Paribas Fortis, formerly known as Fortis Bank Belgium, resumed
its own activities.  “We’ll aim to move the workers it concerns to other
jobs,” Van Maarschalkerweerd said. Still, “forced redundancies
unfortunately cannot be excluded,” he said, adding that the
functions affected are mainly in operations, business
development and business support and administration.  Bailout  The Netherlands bought Fortis’s Dutch banking and insurance
units and its stake in ABN Amro Holding NV in 2008 after the
company ran out of short-term funding. Following the 30 billion-
euro ($39 billion) bailout, Dutch Finance Minister Jan Kees de Jager indicated he plans to sell ABN Amro shares as early as
2014, preferably through a stock-exchange listing.  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc,  Spain ’s Banco Santander
SA and Fortis bought ABN Amro in 2007 for about 72 billion euros
in the world’s biggest banking takeover. In addition to the
downfall of Fortis, RBS needed a 45.5 billion-pound ($71.3
billion) taxpayer rescue as the acquisition saddled it with bad
debt and depleted its cash reserves.  The firm in August said it plans to trim 2,350 jobs in the
next four years, partly offset by the creation of 450 new
positions. The reductions follow an earlier program of 6,000
cuts aimed at eliminating overlaps between the former Fortis and
ABN. The potential job losses at ABN Amro Clearing are separate
from the 2,350, Van Maarschalkerweerd said.  ABN Amro Chairman Gerrit Zalm in August stepped up the
lender’s cost-control targets as the first phase of integration
nears its end by 2012. The lender aims for a cost-to-income
ratio, or costs as a proportion of revenue, of below 60 percent
by 2014. That compares with 63 percent in the first nine months
of 2011.  ABN’s overall workforce fell to 24,947 at the end of
September from 30,200 in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maud van Gaal in Amsterdam at 
 mvangaal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  