-- Four Men Plead Not Guilty to Dell Stock Tipping Scheme
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s   a n d   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-02-14T20:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/accused-inside-traders-plead-not-guilty-to-62-million-dell-tip-conspiracy.html
Four men arrested last month and
charged with participating in a “criminal club” that made
almost $62 million using illegal tips to trade in  Dell Inc. (DELL) 
stock pleaded not guilty.  Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson;  Todd Newman , a portfolio manager formerly at Diamondback Capital
Management LLC; Jon Horvath, an analyst at hedge fund Sigma
Capital Management LLC; and Danny Kuo, a  fund manager  for
Whittier Trust Co., entered not guilty pleas to conspiracy and
securities fraud charges today in  Manhattan  federal court.  Prosecutors from the office of Manhattan U.S. Attorney
Preet Bharara said the ring, which allegedly involved five  hedge
funds  and investment firms, is the largest identified by the
U.S. to date tied to a single stock. One trade earned a
$53 million illegal windfall for Chiasson and Level Global,
prosecutors allege.  Bharara has called the group “a criminal club, whose
purpose was profit and whose members regularly bartered
lucrative inside information.”  All four men are charged with one count of conspiracy to
commit  securities fraud . Newman is charged with three counts of
securities fraud and Chiasson with four counts of securities
fraud. Horvath and Kuo are additionally charged with one count
of securities fraud. All four were arrested Jan. 18. They
entered their pleas at a hearing before U.S. District Judge
Richard Sullivan.  Kinnucan Recordings  Prosecutors have recordings of conversations between
Chiasson and John Kinnucan, founder of an expert-networking firm
whose mobile phone was wiretapped by federal investigators,
Assistant U.S. Attorney Antonia Apps told the judge. Kinnucan
hasn’t been accused of wrongdoing.  “Mr. Chiasson fired me after only three months, much to my
surprise at the time, but after seeing the kind of information
he was evidently getting elsewhere, now I understand why he
didn’t have any need for the types of channel checks I could
provide,” Kinnucan said in an e-mail today.  Kinnucan said he’s “highly confident Mr. Chiasson will not
be convicted of any  insider trading  charges based on any of our
conversations, since everything we talked about was industry-
standard research, as practiced by all the investment banks,
large and small, and which practices have been blessed by the
SEC for many years now,” a reference to the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission.  Prosecutors also have recordings of Newman, Horvath and Kuo
speaking with cooperating witnesses, Apps said. She didn’t name
the witnesses.  Three More  Three other men charged in the scheme pleaded guilty and
are cooperating with the U.S. -- Jesse Tortora, formerly of
Diamondback; Spyridon “Sam” Adondakis, a Level Global analyst;
and Sandeep Goyal, a former employee at  Round Rock , Texas-based
Dell, the third-largest maker of personal computers.  Apps told Sullivan the government will give the defendants
“a huge volume” of evidence, including millions of e-mails and
documents produced by the companies where the accused worked and
copies of the data from their former work computers.  Sullivan scheduled a conference in the case for April 13.
He didn’t set a trial date.  A five-year insider-trading probe by Bharara’s office and
the  Federal Bureau of Investigation  in  New York  called “Perfect
Hedge” has resulted in charges against at least 64 people,
according to the FBI.  More than 50 have pleaded guilty or been convicted after
trial since 2009, including Galleon Group LLC co-founder  Raj Rajaratnam , who is serving an 11-year prison sentence.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-cr-121, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net ;
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  