-- Actelion Sees 2012 Profit Unchanged as Economic Crisis Hurts Drug Prices
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-14T16:40:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/actelion-sees-2012-profit-unchanged-as-economic-crisis-hurts-drug-prices.html
Actelion Ltd. (ATLN) , the Swiss maker of
the Tracleer lung treatment, aims for profit this year to be
unchanged as the economic crisis puts pressure on drug prices
and the company loses market share to  Gilead Sciences Inc. (GILD)   Product sales will decline in the low- to mid-single-digit
percentage range this year, the Allschwil, Switzerland-based
company said in a statement today, repeating a previous
forecast. Actelion set a goal for core earnings, defined as
product sales minus cash operating expenses, to be unchanged
from 437.5 million Swiss francs ($476.6 million) in 2011 in
local currencies.  The pricing environment will be “a little bit worse” this
year, Chief Financial Officer Andrew Oakley said in a phone
interview today. Tracleer will also continue to lose ground to
Gilead’s Letairis after U.S. regulators last year allowed the
company to remove a reference to the risk of liver damage from
the drug’s label.  “It’s not falling off a cliff, but it’s just slowly
declining,” Oakley said. “We still hold overall more than 80
percent share globally.”  Actelion will pay an annual dividend of 80 centimes a
share, unchanged from 2010.  The company’s shares fell 5.9 percent to 33.37 francs in
Zurich. The stock, including reinvested dividends, has lost 39
percent in the past 12 months, the  worst performance  on the
Bloomberg  Europe  Pharmaceuticals Index of 18 companies. The
index has returned 17 percent.  ’Very Hopeful’  Actelion is betting on results from a late-stage trial of
macitentan, its successor to Tracleer, to fuel sales growth when
that drug loses patent protection in 2015. The company said it
expects to announce the results in the second quarter.  “I am as confident as you can be at this stage” that the
trial will have a positive result, Jean-Paul Clozel, Actelion’s
chief executive officer, said in a telephone interview today.
“I’m very hopeful that if we show macitentan is a very good
drug, doctors will prescribe it.”  The study is “very unlikely” to show a statistically
significant benefit in extending the lives of patients with
 pulmonary arterial hypertension , or PAH, because of the way the
trial is designed, Clozel said on a conference call with
analysts today. There have been about 120 deaths across the
study, which involves 742 people, he said.  “Hopefully if there is an effect on morbidity, we should
also see a trend on mortality,” Clozel said. “No drug in
pulmonary hypertension has ever been able to show any benefit on
morbidity-mortality in a double-blind randomized study.”  Incurable Condition  PAH is an incurable condition in which the arteries that
move blood from the heart to the lungs narrow, forcing the heart
to work harder and causing elevated  blood pressure . Over time
the  heart muscle  can weaken and fail, causing death. Tracleer,
macitentan and Letairis block a chemical called endothelin that
causes blood vessels to constrict.  Earnings before interest and taxes totaled 12.2 million
Swiss francs last year, compared with 457.3 million francs in
2010, the company said today. Actelion was expected to report a
9.8 million-franc loss, according to the average of eight
analyst  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg.  Actelion posted a net loss for the year of 146.3 million
francs, or 1.23 francs a share, wider than the average analyst
estimate of a 109.2 million-franc loss, or 88 centimes a share.  ’A Lot Worse’  The loss was because of a provision of 340.6 million francs
for a lawsuit Actelion lost to Asahi Kasei Corp. and a further
43 million francs for “doubtful debts” including from southern
European health-care providers. Actelion said it filed an appeal
against the lawsuit in December.  “The situation in southern Europe has got a lot worse in
the second half of the year,” Oakley said.  Sales of Tracleer fell 7 percent to 1.52 billion francs,
representing 85 percent of full-year revenue of 1.8 billion
francs. Sales of Gilead’s Letairis rose 22 percent to $293
million last year, the  Foster City , California-based company
said Feb. 2.  Actelion started human trials of seven new drugs last year.
The company will seek partners for some of them “relatively
early” in their development and spin off others, Oakley said on
the conference call. It’s also seeking “innovative partnerships
or outlicensing structures” for ponesimod, a treatment for
multiple sclerosis and psoriasis, and setipiprant for asthma, he
said.  “We will develop and commercialize compounds which are in
orphan or speciality indications, or where the size of the
commercial effort is appropriate for a company of our size,”
Oakley said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  