-- Thai Police Search for Two Suspects as Iranians Arrested After Bomb Blasts
-- B y   D a n i e l   T e n   K a t e   a n d   S u t t i n e e   Y u v e j w a t t a n a
-- 2012-02-15T15:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/thai-police-say-iranian-threw-bombs-on-bangkok-street-fleeing-authorities.html
Police in Thailand investigating
yesterday’s bomb blasts in Bangkok arrested two Iranians and
were searching for two additional suspects as  Iran  rejected
allegations by  Israel  that it sponsored that attack, as well as
others around the globe.  Two men with Iranian passports are in custody and evidence
shows that they aimed to target individuals, rather than groups,
according to Wichien Potephosree, secretary-general of the Thai
National Security Council. The suspects planned to assassinate
Israeli diplomats,  Agence France-Presse  reported, citing a Thai
intelligence official it didn’t identify.  “The problems of international politics have affected us
as well as other countries,” Wichien told reporters in Bangkok
today, adding that authorities have yet to link the suspects to
any organization. “Thailand is a soft spot because we welcome
foreigners to promote our tourism and economy.”  Yesterday’s explosions followed the Feb. 13 car-bomb
attacks on Israeli diplomats in the capitals of  India  and
 Georgia  that Israel has blamed on Iranian-backed terrorism.
Israeli leaders have said that time is running out for sanctions
to deter Iran from developing nuclear weapons. Israel hasn’t
ruled out a military strike on Iran, while the U.S. and  Europe 
have tightened sanctions.  Cabinet Meeting  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu ’s security
cabinet convened today to discuss the attacks and hear Foreign
Ministry and security officials’ assessments of the situation,
Netanyahu’s office said in an e-mailed statement.  Before the meeting, Netanyahu told the Knesset, Israel’s
parliament, that unless Iran is stopped, attacks against Israel
will spread to other countries.  “Israel’s security apparatus will know how to fight the
Iranian threat,” Foreign Minister Avigdor Liberman said today,
according to an e-mailed statement from his office.  Iran dismissed Israel’s accusations today, calling them
“baseless,” the state-run Mehr news agency  reported , citing
Ramin Mehmanparast, a foreign ministry spokesman.  “Efforts by Israel to harm the friendly relations between
 Thailand  and Iran will bear no results,” Mehr quoted him as
saying. Israel’s “coordinated baseless accusations of our
country having a hand in blasts in India and Georgia and Bangkok
shows the plot and the setting up of a suspicious scenario.”  A third suspect in the Bangkok blasts has fled to  Malaysia ,
according to Thailand’s deputy national police chief, Pansiri
Prapawat. Thai authorities have tightened security at
immigration checkpoints and “important places,” and have asked
neighboring countries for assistance, Wichien said.  U.S. Warning  The U.S. Embassy in Bangkok warned on Jan. 13 that
“foreign terrorists may be currently looking to conduct
attacks” on tourist areas in Bangkok. Three days later Thai
police charged a Swedish-Lebanese man they said was linked to
Hezbollah with possessing illegal substances after detaining him
in connection with a plan to attack sites frequented by
Americans and Israelis.  The U.S. and the U.K. warned citizens traveling in Thailand
to remain vigilant after yesterday’s attacks. The explosives
used in the blasts contained magnets and were designed to target
individuals, Police Chief Priewphan Damaphong told reporters
today.  Stocks Gain  Thailand’s  SET Index (SET)  gained 1.9 percent as of 3:06 p.m.
local time, mirroring gains across the region. The baht was
little changed.  Reports that the alleged perpetrator of the Bangkok blasts
possessed an Iranian passport may lend credence to Israeli
allegations that Iran is waging an international campaign,  Will
Hartley, head of the Terrorism & Insurgency Centre at defense
researcher IHS Jane’s, said in an e-mail.  “However, the attacks in India, Georgia and now Thailand
have all been highly amateurish, and lack the sophistication
that would normally be expected from an operation executed by
either” Hezbollah or Iran, Hartley said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Daniel Ten Kate in Bangkok at 
 dtenkate@bloomberg.net ;
Suttinee Yuvejwattana in Bangkok at 
 suttinee1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  