-- Airbus to Seek Alliances as Rivals Try to Sell Big Planes
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y   a n d   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-02-14T17:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/airbus-to-seek-alliances-as-new-entrants-try-to-sell-big-planes.html
Airbus SAS (EAD) , the world’s largest
commercial planemaker, will try to forge ties with companies
seeking to break into the market for large airliners because
there isn’t enough room for six competitors, an executive said.  The manufacturer’s current strategy of “making life
difficult” for aspiring entrants may evolve over time, said
Frederic Pochet, Airbus vice business for development and
cooperation.  Airbus, a Toulouse, France-based unit of  European
Aeronautic, Defence & Space Co. , shares the market for large
jetliners with Chicago-based  Boeing Co. (BA)  Commercial Aircraft
Corp. of China, Montreal-based Bombardier Inc. and Russia’s OAO
 Irkut Corp. (IRKT)  aspire to make single-aisle planes, which generally
seat 125 to 200 passengers.  Brazil ’s  Embraer (EMBR3)  decided late last
year not to push immediately into that market after Airbus and
Boeing began offering new engines on single-aisle models.  “In the medium term, we also want to enter into a game of
alliances, if it develops,” because there probably won’t be
sufficient demand to support half a dozen companies, Pochet said
today at a roundtable discussion at a conference in Paris.
“We’re ready for that reshuffle if it takes place in several
years.”  Commercial Aircraft, or  Comac (CACOFZ) , is working toward a 2014
deadline for the first flight of its C919, a plane that will
carry about 168 passengers, and is exploring cooperation with
 Bombardier. (BBD/B)   Suppliers  Planemakers already share subcontractors to provide
engines, avionics, landing gear and other parts. Pratt &
Whitney, a unit of  United Technologies Corp. (UTX) , is providing
geared turbofan engines to power Airbus’s A320neo, which comes
out in 2015, and is also powering Bombardier’s planned Cseries,
a 110- to 145-seat  passenger jet  set for first test flight by
the end of this year.  Bombardier said in October that it was talking to Comac
about how the two companies might share features between the two
planes.  Irkut Corp., a Russian state-controlled aircraft maker, has
said it is targeting a 10 percent share of the market for
single-aisle planes as it aims to put a jet seating 150 to 212
passengers into service by 2017.  EADS assumes that a Chinese single-aisle plane will compete
against Airbus outside  China  “around 2020,” said Marwan Lahoud, chief strategist for the aerospace company.  “There are too many players on this technology,” he said
at the conference, organized by Les Echos newspaper. “Sooner or
later, there will be some consolidation. One must properly pick
one’s partners, and that’s what we’re working on.”  The basic duopoly of Airbus and Boeing “will still be here
in 2020,” Lahoud said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Rothman at   aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  