-- Malaysian Growth Probably Slowed as Easing Exports Keep Need for Low Rates
-- B y   C h o n g   P o o i   K o o n   a n d   M i c h a e l   M u n o z
-- 2012-02-14T01:14:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/malaysian-growth-probably-slowed-as-easing-exports-keep-need-for-low-rates.html
Malaysian economic growth probably
cooled as the European debt crisis hurt exports, dragging full-
year  expansion  to the slowest since the global recession and
putting pressure on the central bank to keep  interest rates  low.  Gross domestic product  rose 4.8 percent in the three months
through December from a year earlier, compared with 5.8 percent
in the previous quarter, according to the median of 20 estimates
in a Bloomberg News  survey . Southeast Asia’s third-largest
economy probably grew 5 percent in 2011, down from 7.2 percent
the previous year, a survey of 18 economists showed.  The slowest growth since an economic contraction in 2009
may give Malaysia a reason to ensure borrowing costs stay low, 
as Southeast Asian policy makers from  Thailand  to the 
Philippines cut rates to buffer their economies against 
weakening global demand. The country, a manufacturing base for 
companies including  Intel Corp ., has refrained from easing for 
the past three years to manage inflationary pressures.  “Malaysia, being amongst the most open economies in the
Asia-Pacific region, still remains vulnerable to the worsening
global economic environment,” said Cynthia Kalasopatan, an
economist at IdeaGlobal in Singapore. “We believe that Bank
Negara Malaysia will likely maintain a stand-still stance but
has the leeway to cut rates if the global situation worsens.”  The ringgit, the best performing currency in Asia this year
after the Indian rupee, has gained more than 4 percent against
the dollar. The benchmark  FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI Index (KLCI)  has
risen about 2 percent this year, lagging behind most regional
markets.  Singapore Contracts  Asia ’s regional slowdown has seen nations from  Japan  to
Singapore report economic contractions last quarter. Singapore
probably declined 2.3 percent in the three months through
December from the previous quarter, according to the median of
nine estimates ahead of final GDP data due Feb. 16. A
preliminary government estimate in January showed a contraction
of 4.9 percent.  Indonesia last week joined the Philippines and Thailand in
cutting borrowing costs this year as easing inflation gave
policy makers scope to support Southeast Asia’s largest economy.  The  International Monetary Fund  predicts Malaysia’s growth
may  slow  to 4 percent in 2012, saying inflation has eased and
“remains contained.”  Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak, who has announced
plans to raise civil servants’ pay and boost spending on
railways and roads to spur growth, expects the $238 billion
economy to expand between 5 percent and 6 percent this year. The
nation has “resilience” and “enough momentum” for 2012, he
said last week.  Production Gains  Malaysia ’s industrial production growth accelerated in
December as manufacturing and electricity output increased.
Inflation slowed to a nine-month low of 3 percent in December.
While inflation has probably peaked, prices remain at a “risk-
elevated level” and policy makers must be mindful of conditions,
Bank Negara Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz said last month.  The central bank left the benchmark rate unchanged at 3
percent for a fourth straight meeting last month, and said the
global environment will become “more challenging.” It last
raised borrowing costs in May.  Across the Asia-Pacific region, Japan this week reported a
fourth-quarter contraction that was worse than economists
estimated.  China ’s exports and imports fell for the first time
in more than two years in January, and Premier Wen Jiabao said
this week the country needs to start “fine-tuning” economic
policies this quarter.  “External headwinds have picked up strongly in the fourth
quarter of last year,” said  Irvin Seah , an economist at DBS
Group Holdings Ltd. in  Singapore . “Real export growth is
unlikely to pick up significantly until a more pronounced
improvement in global outlook materializes.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chong Pooi Koon in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 pchong17@bloomberg.net ;
Michael J. Munoz in  Hong Kong  at 
 mjmunoz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net . 