-- Malaysia to Sell Up to $9.9 Billion Islamic Bonds to Finance Mass Railway
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w
-- 2012-02-14T10:50:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/malaysia-to-sell-as-much-as-9-9-billion-islamic-bonds-for-railway-project.html
Malaysia  aims to raise as much 30
billion ringgit ($9.9 billion) through an Islamic bond program
to fund construction of a mass railway in the Southeast Asian
nation’s capital, the project’s manager said.  Dana Infra Sdn., a finance ministry company set up to fund
infrastructure projects, will sell ringgit-denominated Islamic
bonds, or sukuk, with maturities of as much as 65 years, Azhar Abdul Hamid, chief executive officer of Mass Rapid Transit Corp.,
said in an interview today. It will initially take a bridging
loan of 500 million ringgit from a consortium of banks to cover
early building work, he said.  “Getting funding is not a problem as we have government
support,” Azhar said. Dana Infra “will sell 20 billion to 30
billion ringgit of sukuk in three to four months.”  The planned sale follows a record issuance of 30.6 billion
ringgit of Shariah-compliant bonds by Malaysia’s PLUS Bhd.
completed in January. Rising global investor appetite for sukuk,
that comply with the religion’s ban on interest, prompted
 Development Bank  of Kazakhstan, Islamic Bank of  Thailand  and
Turkey to announce plans to offer securities in 2012 over the
past three weeks.  Dana Infra’s bonds will likely receive a AAA rating from
local rating companies due to sovereign backing, Azhar said.
Irwan Siregar, deputy secretary to the treasury, wasn’t
immediately available to comment by telephone today.  State-owned MRT Corp. is managing the 156-kilometer (97-
mile)  Kuala Lumpur  railway that may cost 48 billion ringgit
including rolling stock, according to a government estimate in
2010. An updated costing will likely be made at year-end once
key contracts have been awarded, Azhar told reporters last week
when granting the project’s first major construction contracts
worth a total 1.74 billion ringgit to  IJM Corp. (IJM)  and  Ahmad Zaki
Resources Bhd. (AZR)   The railway will ease traffic congestion in the capital and
carry 2 million passengers a day when finished, with the first
line scheduled for completion in 2016, the government said in
its 2010 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Shelley Smith in  Hong Kong  at 
 ssmith118@bloomberg.net ;
Sandy Hendry in Hong Kong at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  