-- Alcatel-Lucent Seen as Leader in Wireless Capacity Fight: Tech
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-14T08:48:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/alcatel-lucent-seen-as-leader-in-wireless-capacity-fight-tech.html
Sprint Nextel Corp. (S)  is in talks to
use new  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  telecommunications gear designed to help
wireless networks handle more calls. The discussions reflect the
industry’s race to avert a capacity crunch for mobile service.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) ’s lightRadio, introduced a year ago, is a
Rubik’s Cube-sized device that contains radios and antennae and
can be mounted on rooftops, phone poles and bus shelters to
expand a network’s capacity in a given spot. LightRadio is one
of several new technologies created to help the mobile-phone
industry cope with the rising tide of calling and data that’s
putting a strain on mobile networks just as the wireless
airwaves -- or spectrum -- used to carry traffic grow scarce.  As consumers do more Web surfing and application
downloading on devices such as  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s iPhone and tablets
using  Google Inc. (GOOG)  Android software, mobile-data traffic will
surge 26-fold in the five years through 2015,  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) 
estimates. And with limited spectrum available, mobile-service
providers are looking for ways to squeeze more from existing
capacity. That has Alcatel-Lucent and other gear makers racing
for part of the $36 billion that Ovum predicts U.S. phone
companies will devote to capital spending in 2012.  “We use technologies to mine spectrum as much as
possible,” Bob Azzi, senior vice president of network at
 Overland Park , Kansas-based Sprint, said in an interview. “That
can give us some wiggle room along the way.”  ‘Spectrum Crunch’  Multiple U.S. carriers are testing lightRadio and may begin
deploying it this year, Marcus Weldon, chief technology officer
at Paris-based Alcatel-Lucent, said in an interview. He declined
to identify the carriers. Representatives of Dallas-based  AT&T
Inc. (T)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) , based in  New York ,
declined to comment.  “We are in a spectrum crunch,” Weldon said.  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  rose as much as 4.2 percent in Paris trading
today and was up 3.6 percent at 1.71 euros as of 9:42 a.m.,
valuing the company at 4 billion euros ($5.3 billion).  For the past two decades, the U.S. government has helped
carriers meet increased demand by auctioning off large blocks of
airwaves, used to carry calls and data. Freeing new spectrum has
emerged as a “crucial challenge,” Federal Communications
Commission Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said in a speech last
year. Even after new auctions happen, it would take several more
years for the buyers to deploy the spectrum.  As a result, U.S. carriers may grow more dependent on new
technologies to keep up with escalating user demand.  ‘Waiting’ for the FCC  “The No. 1 issue for us as we move forward, and for the
industry, I believe, continues to be spectrum,” AT&T Chief
Executive Officer  Randall Stephenson  said during a January
earnings call. “This growth cannot continue without more
spectrum being cleared and brought to market. And despite all
the speeches from the FCC, we’re all still waiting.”  Qualcomm Inc. (QCOM) , the biggest maker of mobile-phone chips, has
developed its own software and chips for small cells -- these
the size of a cigarette pack -- designed to boost network
capacity.  New capacity-boosting cells augur an overhaul of the design
of wireless networks, which now rely on placement of large,
expensive cell towers that transmit signals between handsets and
the vast underground fiber-optic cable networks that send calls
instantly across the globe.  “It’s going to change the way that networks get deployed,
and we’re going to get the data rates through the devices up
pretty dramatically by using that,”  Paul Jacobs , CEO of San
Diego-based Qualcomm, said during a November conference call
with investors.  Revamp Costs  A recent survey by  Informa Telecoms & Media  showed that 60
percent of carriers say small cells of various types will be
more important than traditional cells in advanced wireless
networks.  Revamping networks won’t come cheap. Each cell has to be
attached to existing equipment. The market for outdoor cells
like those from Alcatel-Lucent could rise to as high as $8
billion by 2016, according to  ABI Research . U.S. wireless
carriers will increase  capital spending  10 percent to $36
billion this year, according to London-based Ovum. That’s double
the rate of last year.  “There’s a real concern: Can we keep up with demand?”
Alcatel’s Weldon said. “There’s only one solution, and it’s a
difficult solution to afford. Carriers can’t afford to increase
spending much. All this means, they’ll take longer to do it.
Network congestion is always going to be a factor.”  Capacity constraints already interfere with call quality
and download speeds in highly populated areas. According to J.D.
Power & Associates, 13 percent of all calls made with
smartphones experience some degradation.  Congestion  “There are already isolated, but regularly occurring
congestion issues in major cities,” Peter Rysavy, president of
consulting firm  Rysavy Research , said in an interview. “Over
time, usage will increase, and it will constrain usefulness of
the service.”  Carriers such as Sprint are coping in other ways, including
shifting more traffic to local Wi-Fi networks, and using
software to adjust mobile video so it takes less bandwidth
during peak hours.  Sprint is also buying capacity from other network owners,
such as Bellevue, Washington-based  Clearwire Corp. (CLWR)  As a result
of the Clearwire arrangement, Sprint won’t face a spectrum
crunch until 2016, Azzi said.  Clearwire is in discussions to provide airwaves to other
carriers, Clearwire CEO Erik Prusch said in a recent interview.  “Spectrum deficiency really gets large in 2013-2014,”
Prusch said. “We are talking to a lot of players, anybody who’s
in need of it.” He declined to identify other carriers.  Rising Prices  Another option is for carriers to raise consumer prices,
discouraging network use. Tim Horan, an analyst at Oppenheimer &
Co., expects U.S. service providers to raise prices on wireless
contracts at a faster pace in the coming years.  “They are going to either charge for usage more or
increase the minimum amount” paid for a data plan, Horan said
in an interview. AT&T in January increased the cost of its
cheapest smartphone data plan for new customers to $20 a month,
from $15. Several carriers moved away from unlimited data plans
to limited plans last year.  For some carriers, technological innovation may do most to
avert the capacity crunch, said Reed Hundt, a former chairman of
the Federal Communications Commission.  “God only made a certain amount of spectrum,” Hundt said
in an interview. “To go beyond that you have to have a
different architectural solution, and that’s where micro cells
come in.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  