-- Alcatel CEO Forgoes Stock Options, Renews ‘Normality’ Pledge
-- B y   M a r i e   M a w a d
-- 2012-02-14T19:01:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/alcatel-ceo-forgoes-stock-options-after-incomplete-turnaround.html
Alcatel-Lucent (ALU)  Chief Executive
Officer Ben Verwaayen waived any  stock options  and performance-
linked shares this year after  France ’s largest phone-equipment
maker didn’t meet all of its financial targets.  Asked in an interview today about  Alcatel-Lucent (ALU) ’s next
objective, Verwaayen said: “By the end of 2012, if we have
normality, I will think again about finding another word.”  Last year marked the end of the CEO’s three-year strategy
to return the Paris-based company to a profit and free  cash
flow . While Alcatel reported its first annual net income in six
years, it pushed back to 2012 its goal of generating positive
cash flow.  Verwaayen, 60, asked the board of directors not to grant
him any stock options or performance-related shares, while his
fixed salary of 1.2 million euros ($1.6 million) will remain
unchanged this year, Alcatel-Lucent said in a statement
published on its  website .  The former  BT Group Plc (BT/A)  CEO, who has warned that visibility
was limited on the gear market in 2012, vowed to increase
adjusted operating margin this year.  “In a year, the reality of life is that not every quarter
will be great,” Verwaayen said in his office in Paris. “In a
normal company, if there is a bump up or down, the market
doesn’t react. At a company like Alcatel-Lucent, it reacts very
very strongly, up or down.”  Alcatel’s shares jumped 12 percent on Feb. 10, the day the
company announced its full-year results and said it plans to
license its trove of 29,000 patents to generate cash.  “I would love to build a confidence with the financial
markets so that they look much more to the trend, rather than to
an individual bump or product here and there,” Verwaayen said.
“The trend is certainly that we are in the right direction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marie Mawad in Paris at 
 mmawad1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  