-- Amazon Is Said to Have Fewer Prime Members Than Estimated
-- B y   E d m u n d   L e e   a n d   D a n i e l l e   K u c e r a
-- 2012-02-15T01:09:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/amazon-said-to-have-fewer-prime-subscribers-than-estimated-shares-decline.html
Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Prime service, a
linchpin of its effort to keep customers loyal and fuel  long-
term profit , has attracted fewer than half as many members as
analysts estimate, three people familiar with the matter said.  As of October, 3 million to 5 million people subscribed to
Prime, a program begun in 2005 that provides two-day shipping
for $79 a year, said the people, who asked not to be named
because the figures are private. Amazon is working to reach 7
million to 10 million in the next 12 to 18 months, the people
said. Analysts have pegged the current number at 10 million or
more, with expectations for it to climb higher this year.  The slower adoption of Prime adds to concerns about
Amazon’s revenue growth. The Internet retailer posted sales of
$17.4 billion last quarter, trailing the $18.3 billion predicted
by analysts. While the Prime service increases Amazon’s shipping
costs, it’s seen as a way to lock in customers and prod them to
shop more, according to ChannelAdvisor Corp. Fewer Prime users
would mean there are fewer of Amazon’s most dedicated customers.  “A Prime customer is much more likely to start and end a
search and purchase on Amazon without bothering to check other
channels,” said David Spitz, president of the Morrisville,
North Carolina-based firm, which supplies e-commerce software to
retailers. The subscribers spend three to four times more than
regular customers, said Spitz, who had estimated that Prime had
about 10 million to 12 million members.  Mary Osako, a spokeswoman at Seattle-based Amazon, declined
to comment on the number of Prime members.  Kindle Promotion  Amazon, the world’s largest Internet retailer, has begun
promoting Prime by offering free trial memberships to buyers of
the Kindle Fire tablet computer. The October figures don’t
include the impact of that promotion because the Fire didn’t go
on sale until Nov. 14. Even so,  JPMorgan Chase & Co . estimated
that Prime had already reached 13 million by Sept. 30.  While Kindle Fire users get a free trial of the service,
they must opt in if they want to continue using it. Amazon Chief
Financial Officer Thomas Szkutak said on a conference call in
January that it was too early to tell how many trial users were
converting to subscriptions, though “early stats that we’re
seeing we like a lot.”  Amazon shares  fell less than 1 percent to $191.30 today.
The stock has climbed 11 percent this year.  ‘All You Can Eat’  The company began Prime seven years ago as a way for
customers to get speedy unlimited shipping for a low annual fee.
Chief Executive Officer  Jeff Bezos  called it an “all-you-can-
eat” service that would make Amazon more convenient for
shoppers while boosting costs in the short term. In February
2011, the company added a video-streaming service to the
product, letting customers watch TV shows and movies over the
Internet.  Amazon has struck deals with  Viacom Inc. (VIAB)  and  News Corp. (NWSA)  to
add more video content, stepping up competition with Netflix
Inc.’s Internet service. Netflix has more than 23 million
streaming customers.  Analysts at Citigroup Inc., Needham & Co. and Robert W.
Baird & Co. had all estimated that Prime reached at least 10
million members. Amazon doesn’t disclose figures for Kindle
sales, Prime subscribers, or the amount of videos, books and
other content Kindle users purchase over the device. That makes
it difficult for analysts and investors to come up with accurate
projections and make investment decisions, said  Colin Gillis , an
analyst at BGC Partners LP in New York.  Missing Data  “It drills home the point that you’re paying a premium
valuation for this company and key pieces of their economics
aren’t disclosed,” he said. Amazon trades at 139.6 times its
trailing 12-month earnings, compared with 14.5 times for  Apple
Inc. (AAPL) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Even with less adoption than expected, the Prime promotion
has weighed on Amazon’s shipping costs. Those expenses jumped 55
percent to $4 billion last year, dwarfing the $1.55 billion
Amazon gets in shipping fees from customers.  Amazon has increased spending on distribution and
fulfillment centers in recent years. That investment has put
pressure on the company to earn a return on Prime customers,
said Gillis, who  recommends  selling Amazon shares.  “Prime drives more use, but you don’t know how much more
use it drives,” he said. “Amazon needs to rationalize its
fulfillment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Edmund Lee in  New York  at 
 elee310@bloomberg.net ;
Danielle Kucera in  San Francisco  at 
 dkucera6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  