-- Man-Hating Artist Kusama Covers Tate Modern in Dots: Interview
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-02-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/man-hating-artist-kusama-covers-tate-modern-in-dots-interview.html
On a chilly February morning, an 82-
year-old Japanese woman is wheeled into the  Tate Modern  gallery
in London, wearing a fringed red wig and a polka-dot dress
matching the balloons hanging all around.  She is the painter, peacenik and performance artist Yayoi Kusama, who made a splash in 1960s  New York  before heading home
a decade later and then checking herself into the mental
hospital where she still lives. Tate has opened a retrospective
of her work, featuring polka dots, limp sculptures of the male
organ and psychedelic rooms beamed with swirling colored spots.  Kusama sits at a long table on the gallery’s top floor,
flanked by two assistants and facing four journalists. Her wide
eyes are darkly lined, her lips theatrically traced. On the
table is an unwrapped box of chocolates that Godiva sent after
finding out she liked them.  “Today is the most wonderful day in my life,” says Kusama
in halting English, before reverting to Japanese to praise the
host country, its art-loving people and its monarchy.  “I hope royalty continues forever,” she says through an
interpreter, her expression one of permanent stupor. “This is
the thing that can contribute to peace throughout the world.”  The conversation turns to 46-year-old  Damien Hirst , whose
signature spot canvases are currently on show across 11  Gagosian
Galleries  worldwide. Is he a copycat?  “I have been using polka dots since I was a very young
child,” says Kusama. “It’s only after that, it seems, that
they’ve become popular throughout the art world.”  Single Particle  She loves Hirst, she says, and respects his work. Yet a
subsequent comment suggests disapproval of Hirst’s methods:
Kusama says she works alone, with no help from assistants, hence
the leg aches and the wheelchair.  To Kusama, dots represent her life -- “a single particle
among billions,” as she writes in her autobiography. It’s the
dots that got her noticed in New York in 1959: large white
“Infinity Net” canvases with faded gray spots. She became a
contributor to, if not a precursor of, Minimalism and  Pop Art .  Kusama’s mother was from a rich family of seedling
merchants. Yet rather than marvel at the flowers blooming around
her, little Yayoi developed visual and aural hallucinations that
have continued to haunt her.  Home life was traumatic. She suffered physical and verbal
abuse at the hands of a cheated mother whose husband chased
every woman, including the household help. The little girl grew
up to despise the opposite sex.  Nude Protest  Paradoxically, as a young artist in sixties New York, she
exuded sexuality. She struck kittenish poses, staged a nude
protest (“anatomical explosion”) outside the New York Stock
Exchange, and held ticketed orgies in her atelier -- staying
clothed throughout, and abstaining from sex.  Her portrayals of men are unflattering. Two early 1960s
exhibition rooms are crowded with drooping sculptures
representing male appendages. Like creeping overgrowth, they
cover shoes, sofas and even a rowboat that sits in a room of its
own.  What does she think of men now? “I don’t have many
positive feelings about them; I haven’t had sex with a man for
decades,” she says. “My father was the type who would play
around, who would womanize a lot.  “I saw this a lot, all the time, during my wretched
childhood, and that probably affected me to develop these views
against men,” she says, though she recalls having had gay male
friends for whom she made clothes and threw weddings.  So is she afraid of men? “The simple answer is yes, I am
afraid of men.”  Andy’s Pal  In New York, she came across her “close friend”  Andy Warhol , whose silkscreen cow posters were an “imitation or
appropriation” of the motif she papered her rowboat
installation with. She also had a platonic relationship with the
older artist Joseph Cornell, whose death in 1972 plunged her
into sadness. She moved back to  Japan  the following year.  In conversation, Kusama is both lucid and coherent, and
sounds no more unhinged than the next artist. Her mental
condition is something she has channeled into her art, she says,
and doctors tell her the channeling has kept illness in check.  The exhibition’s most enchanting room is a mirrored chamber
with dozens of tiny suspended lights that change color and are
reflected an infinite number of times, creating a mesmerizing
constellation. Designed in 2011, it may be a dazzling imagining
of Kusama’s next destination.  “Yayoi Kusama” is at Tate Modern,  London , through June 5.
Information:  http://www.tate.org.uk/modern   (Farah Nayeri writes for Muse, the arts and leisure section
of Bloomberg News. Any opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London at  Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 