-- Billionaire Fredriksen Buys Ships for $610 Million in Sign Slump Near End
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-14T17:11:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/tanker-billionaire-john-fredriksen-buys-ships-for-610-million-amid-slump.html
Shipping billionaire  John Fredriksen 
spent about $610 million to buy new vessels and indicated he may
make more purchases this year, a sign that a plunge in prices
might be near an end.  Fredriksen ordered six oil-product tankers from STX
Offshore & Shipbuilding Co. for 235.5 billion won ($210
million), the Changwon, South Korea-based company said today in
an e-mailed statement. He also is chairman of  Golar LNG Ltd. (GOL) ,
which placed orders worth $400 million with Hyundai Samho Heavy
Industries Co. for two ships to haul liquefied natural gas and
said it’s in talks on buying more.  The billionaire, ranked by Forbes magazine as the world’s
72nd-richest person, said in May he expected ship prices to
collapse “within a year or two,” after which he planned to
return to the market and buy tankers. A glut of vessels reduced
earnings for the largest carriers of crude oil to the lowest
level in more than 14 years in 2012, and the Baltic Dry Index, a
gauge of costs to ship commodities, reached a 25-year low.  “He knows what he’s doing,” Simon Newman, an analyst at
shipbroker ICAP Shipping International Ltd. in  London , said by
e-mail. “If he is the first mover, he’ll pick up cheaper assets
and orders, so even if the market does bump along the bottom for
longer, others moving after him will have to pay more.”  Golar’s order includes options to buy two more ships. The
tankers ordered from STX are so-called medium-range vessels,
each with a carrying capacity of about 50,000 deadweight tons,
hauling refined oil products such as jet or diesel fuel.  Longer Distances  “Medium-range tankers are the most promising sector for
the next few years,” Steve Christy, head of research at London-
based  EA Gibson Shipbrokers Ltd. , said by phone. Orders for the
ships were fewer since 2009 than those for other types, curbing
supply, and a shift in new refineries to  India  and the  Middle
East  from the U.S. and  Europe  means shipments must be carried
for longer distances, supporting demand, he said.  New tankers are the least expensive to order in 10 to 15
years, and energy-efficient designs give even greater savings
over older ships, shipping-industry newspaper TradeWinds and
London’s Financial Times cited Fredriksen as saying in
 interviews  in the past two weeks. The billionaire plans to make
a “substantial” order later this year for very large crude
carriers, the biggest  oil tankers , according to the FT.  “A major newbuild order would be a material negative for
the tanker market, as limited ordering has been the lone bright
spot in an oversupplied market,” Michael Webber, an analyst at
 Wells Fargo Securities LLC , said in a report today.  $10.7 Billion  Fredriksen has a net worth of $10.7 billion, according to
Forbes. The 67-year-old, now a Cypriot citizen, has public and
private shipping investments spanning container vessels, dry-
bulk carriers, oil tankers and offshore drilling rigs.  The 109-vessel fleet owned by Fredriksen is worth $3.55
billion, according to  VesselsValue.com , a unit of London-based
shipbroker Seasure Shipping Ltd. That excludes the billionaire’s
stake in Seadrill Ltd., an owner of offshore rigs. Hemen Holding
Ltd., a company indirectly controlled by Fredriksen, has a 25
percent share of Seadrill.  Hemen, the biggest shareholder of Frontline Ltd., in
December provided guarantees of $505.5 million and split the
tanker operator in two, forming a second company called
Frontline 2012. Frontline, previously the world’s biggest
operator of crude tankers, said it was running out of cash and
risked defaulting on loans because of the market downturn.  Peak Prices  Costs for new ships plunged as Asian yards began dropping
prices early in 2009 to win contracts. Medium-range tankers have
slid 37 percent from the peak of $53.5 million in August 2008,
according to data from Clarkson Plc, the world’s largest
shipbroker. LNG carriers have stayed between $202 million and
$200 million since May, down from a record $250 million in
October 2008, the figures show.  “He, as well as many others, believes we are near or at
the bottom,” Thomas Zwick, an analyst at Oslo-based shipping
consultant Lorentzen & Stemoco AS, said by phone today of
Fredriksen. “The proof remains to be seen.”  Average earnings for medium range tankers fell 1 percent
today to a daily $7,512, extending the year’s decline to 59
percent, according to Baltic Exchange data. The London-based
exchange assesses freight costs on more than 50 international
maritime routes.  The billionaire briefly owned a fleet of product tankers in
2001, inherited in a takeover of Osprey Maritime. He sold at
least 10 to a company owned by  Stelios Haji-Ioannou , founder of
U.K. budget airline EasyJet Plc, within months of the
transaction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  