-- Apple Says Fair Labor Association Began Foxconn Inspection
-- B y   H e a t h e r   P e r l b e r g   a n d   T i m   C u l p a n
-- 2012-02-14T18:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/apple-says-fair-labor-association-began-foxconn-inspection-3-.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  said the Fair Labor
Association began auditing supplier  Foxconn Technology Group (FOXCGZ) ’s
plants in China, its first inspections in an effort to respond
to criticism of conditions for workers making its gadgets.  Assessments will take about two weeks and include at least
four campuses in China, Louis Woo, chairman of Foxconn’s retail
unit and a spokesman for the Taipei-based company, said in a
telephone interview today.  Apple, which became the first technology company to join
the Washington-based labor group last month, has been criticized
by human-rights organizations over conditions at suppliers
including Foxconn. Apple released a list of suppliers for the
first time in January and publishes an annual report detailing
instances of labor and environmental violations by some
manufacturers.  Representatives are inspecting Foxconn facilities and
surveying workers at Longhua and Guanlan, Woo said. Many of the
representatives speak Mandarin, he said.  Labor-rights inspectors started yesterday at a Shenzhen
plant known as Foxconn City, Apple said in a statement.
Inspections also will be conducted at Foxconn factories in
Chengdu at Apple’s request, with similar audits of  Quanta
Computer Inc. (2382)  and  Pegatron Corp. (4938)  later this year, Apple said.  Random Access  Pegatron Chief Financial Officer Charles Lin said by phone
the company’s Shanghai factory was informed of the coming
inspection within the last two days and hasn’t been given a
schedule for the visit.  Carol Hsu, a spokeswoman for Taoyuan, Taiwan-based Quanta,
which makes iPods and notebooks for Apple, declined to comment.  The FLA has had “unfettered access” to the Foxconn
factories, which are large, state-of-the-art facilities, Auret Van Heerden, director of the Fair Labor Association, said in an
interview with CNBC today, after the group initiated factory
visits in China. It has 30 people on the ground and is working
to create “a very detailed picture of the work” being done.  Foxconn employs more than 1.2 million people in over 18
countries, chairman and founder Terry Gou said Dec. 1. The
company has operations in  Taiwan ,  Brazil ,  Mexico , Slovakia and
Vietnam in addition to its China factories.  “Unfettered Access’  ‘‘The reason why Apple is having this FLA inspection is not
because they want to solve the problems; instead, it’s because
Apple wants to get publicity and rebuild its positive image,”
 Li Qiang , executive director of China Labor Watch said in a
statement today. “What Apple should do now is to take action to
solve the problems and improve the labor conditions in their
supplier factories.”  Protesters demanding that Apple develop a worker-protection
strategy to prevent abuse at its suppliers’ facilities presented
the company with petitions signed by more than 250,000 people
 last week  at its Grand Central store in  New York  City.  In addition to criticism about workers’ conditions, Apple
is grappling with a dispute that has led some iPads to be
removed from shelves. A newspaper in  China ’s Hebei province
reported that authorities seized iPads from retailers there
because Hong Kong-listed Proview International Holdings Ltd.
claims to own the iPad name.  Proview also is asking China’s customs bureau to block
imports and exports of iPads, Roger Xie, the lawyer representing
Proview, said today.  Apple climbed as high as $505.23 in New York today, the
highest since the company was listed in 1980.  The company, burnished by the iPhone’s success and
memorials to co-founder  Steve Jobs , displaced Google Inc. as the
top company in Harris Interactive’s poll of corporate images.
Apple topped the public’s ratings for vision and leadership,
products and services, financial performance and workplace
environment -- four of the six categories Harris tracked.  The Fair Labor Association was set up in 1999 to monitor
workplace environments globally in an initiative by former U.S.
President  Bill Clinton . Its participants include  Nike Inc. (NKE)  and
 Nestle SA. (NESN)   To contact the reporters on this story:
Heather Perlberg in New York at 
 hperlberg@bloomberg.net ;
Tim Culpan in Taipei at 
 tculpan1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  