-- Apple Reaffirms Commitment to Safe Labor
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o   a n d   D i n a   B a s s
-- 2012-02-14T22:37:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/apple-ceo-cook-reaffirms-commitment-to-supplier-labor-conditions.html
Apple Inc. (AAPL)  Chief Executive Officer
 Tim Cook  said that the company takes working conditions
seriously and that it’s pressing suppliers to meet stringent
standards or risk losing business.  “We believe that every worker has the right to a fair and
safe work environment, free of discrimination, where they can
earn competitive wages and they can voice their concerns
freely,” Cook said during a San Francisco conference sponsored
by  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  “Apple suppliers must live up to
this to do business with Apple.”  Cook used the talk to reiterate remarks the company has
made, and to explain why he believes Apple does more to ensure
fair labor practices than any other technology provider. Apple,
based in Cupertino,  California , said yesterday that the Fair
Labor Association has begun inspections of  Foxconn Technology
Group (FOXCGZ) ’s plants in response to criticism of conditions for
workers assembling devices such as the iPhone and iPad.  Cook called the use of underage labor “abhorrent” and
said that while it’s rare in Apple’s supply chain, the company
is working to stamp it out. Using underage labor is a “firing
offense” for Apple suppliers, he said.  “We know people have a very high expectation of Apple and
we have an even higher expectation of ourselves,” Cook said.  Apple rose 1.4 percent to $509.46 at the close in New York.
The  shares  have gained 26 percent this year.  Labor Standards  Apple became the first technology company to join the
Washington-based Fair Labor Association last month. Protesters
demanding that Apple develop a worker-protection strategy to
prevent abuse at its suppliers’ facilities presented the company
with petitions signed by more than 250,000 people last week at
its Grand Central store in  New York  City.  Cook also asked for forbearance from investors while the
company discusses how to best use its growing cash pile.  “We have more cash then we need to run the business on a
daily basis,” Cook said. “I only ask for a bit of patience so
we can do this in a deliberate way.”  Apple, under co-founder  Steve Jobs , expanded from personal
computers into areas such as phones and tablets. Cook, who
succeeded Jobs as CEO in August, said his goal is to maintain
Apple’s focus on a limited number of selected “great products”
and on the culture Jobs instilled before his death in October.  “Apple is this unique company,” Cook said. “I’m not
going to witness or permit the slow undoing of it, because I
believe in it so deeply.”  Taking Sales  Cook said he’s convinced the market for tablets such as the
iPad will become bigger than that for PCs. While the iPad has
cut into sales of Mac computers, it’s taken even more sales
from PCs based on  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT) ’s Windows operating system,
the CEO said.  “It’s just a matter of time” for tablet sales to surpass
PCs, he said. “It’s too much of a profound change for it not
to.”  Cook also said Apple has called its TV effort “a hobby”
because it’s not as large as the company’s other businesses,
even though current customers enjoy the product. He emphasized
that Apple “doesn’t do hobbies as a general rule” and said the
company needs to find something that could be more mainstream.  Jobs told biographer Walter Isaacson before his death that
Apple had been working on a new television product.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net ;
Dina Bass in Seattle at 
 dbass2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  