-- Apple Apps Remain Developers’ Favorite Even as Android Spreads
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/apple-apps-remain-developers-favorite-even-as-android-spreads.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  has turned Android into
the most popular operating system for smartphones. And yet the
platform may be losing ground to Apple Inc.’s iOS in a major
area: new applications.  Relative to Apple, fewer apps were created for Android in
January than a year earlier, according to  Flurry , a company that
analyzes mobile-software data. Developers made roughly one new
Android app for every three Apple apps, Flurry found. A year
ago, they created two Android app for every three Apple apps.  While the study only tracked developers who design apps
using Flurry’s tools, the shift suggests that Google’s bid to
overtake Apple’s industry-leading App Store may be losing some
steam. Apple has more than 550,000 apps in its store, compared
with over 400,000 for Google’s  Android Market . Both companies
count on the array of apps to make their phones more enticing
and lock in consumers who are already using the devices.  “We saw a greater migration to iOS,” said Peter Farago,
vice president of marketing at San Francisco-based Flurry.  Google has made quick gains on Apple since the first
Android phones went on sale in 2008. In 2011, though, the growth
in new apps for Android was about half the level of Apple,
according to the firm, which tracks more than 55,000 developers.
The study measured more than 65,000 new software projects over
the course of the year.  Less Interested?  Other research firms are seeing a similar slowdown in
Android. A  survey  of about 2,000 developers conducted by
Appcelerator and IDC found that fewer programmers were “very
interested” in developing for Android phones and tablets in
November than in June, while their interest in iOS devices
remained unchanged.  Christopher Katsaros, a spokesman at Google in  Mountain
View ,  California , declined to comment. Christine Monaghan at
Cupertino, California-based Apple didn’t return a request for
comment.  The reasons for the smaller interest in Android involve
time and money. Apple apps can be quicker to develop and it’s
easier to generate revenue from them, thanks in part to Apple’s
iTunes system.  “Developers can make more money on iOS,” Farago said.  Take  GameHouse , a maker of games such as “Doodle Jump”
and “NCIS the Game.” It makes three to four times more revenue
on an iOS title than on an Android game, said Ken Murphy, a vice
president at the company, which is part of  RealNetworks Inc. (RNWK) 
GameHouse also has to spend an extra two months working on an
Android game versus an iOS title. That lengthens the time it
takes to get it to market by about 30 percent, he said.  “It’s nowhere near as simple as iOS,” Murphy said.  ‘Tough Spot’  The sheer variety of Android devices is one complication.
GameHouse has to tweak its games to account for variations in
accelerometers and responsiveness in more than 550 different
Android gadgets, Murphy said. Apple, by contrast, has just a few
models.  Bill O’Donnell, general manager of mobile products at the
travel site  Kayak.com , says his company isn’t able to test its
software on every variety of Android phone. There are just too
many of them.  “It puts developers in a tough spot,” he said.  Sometimes individual models require many extra changes.
With  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) ’s Kindle Fire tablet, two Kayak engineers
had to spend a month and a half changing all of the company’s
apps to work with Bing Maps rather than  Google Maps , O’Donnell
said. Despite being an Android device, Kindle Fire didn’t come
with Google apps preloaded.  “That was a huge pain,” he said.  App Stores  Distributing Android software to multiple application
stores takes more work as well, whereas developers only have to
submit iOS programs to Apple’s site.  “For Android, there are 90 app stores,” said  Alex Caccia ,
president of  Marmalade , whose software lets developers adapt
apps to different devices. “And if you are serious about this
market, you’ve got to do it.”  It’s also not as easy to charge Android users for apps as
it is on  Apple (AAPL)  devices. With iPhones and iPads, owners’ credit-
card accounts are already stored on iTunes, which makes app
purchases simple. Android doesn’t have the same mechanism for
all its users, Farago said.  “Consumers are more trained to get free things on
Android,” he said.  Long-Term Opportunity  While Android developers can make money off sales of in-
game merchandise, such as virtual weapons and other digital
items, many are still working out how to do that, Caccia said.  Even so, the slowdown in app development hasn’t stopped the
spread of Android devices. In the fourth quarter, Android  was
running on 47.3 percent  of U.S. smartphones, up from 44.8
percent in the previous three months, according to research firm
ComScore Inc. And while Google’s Android Market has fewer apps
than Apple’s store, the number of programs has almost tripled
from a year ago.  Developers still see Android as a valuable source of
revenue in the longer term, as Google irons out the wrinkles.
GameHouse is planning to hire more staff to work on the
software.  “In the short term, there’s a lot of money in iOS,”
Murphy said. “In the long term, we are very bullish on
Android.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  