-- Argentina Rain to Relieve Corn, Soybean Crops After Dry Week
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-02-14T19:41:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/argentina-rain-to-relieve-corn-soybean-crops-after-dry-week-1-.html
Argentine soybean and corn farmers
are expecting rain this week that will relieve crops after
months of dry weather, the  Buenos Aires  Cereals Exchange said.  Parts of the main crop-growing region received rain in the
last 24 hours, following five days without precipitation, said
Maximiliano Zavala, a forecaster at the exchange. More showers
are expected Feb. 16 through Feb. 18, he said.  Rain is restoring soil moisture for crops in Argentina
after months of dry weather caused by the La Nina weather
pattern, which also led to drought in parts of  Brazil  and
 Mexico . Corn and soybeans planted later in the season are
benefiting from the rain, while damage to the grain sowed at the
beginning of the season is irreversible, he said. Corn planting
runs from August to January, with soybean sowing taking place
September through February.  “The situation for the crops has improved, above all in
terms of soil conditions,” Zavala said by telephone from Buenos
Aires today. “Rain is expected for the rest of February and for
March. The situation is much better than it was a month or so
ago.”  Corn futures for May delivery fell 0.9 percent to $6.37 a
bushel at 1:03 p.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade. Soybeans for
May rose 0.4 percent to $12.65 a bushel.  Corn harvesting starts in February and runs through August,
while soybeans are harvested February through June. The soybean
crop was fully planted, with corn sowing almost complete, as of
Feb. 9, the cereals exchange said.  Argentina  is the second-biggest corn exporter after the
U.S., and the third-biggest soybean shipper after the U.S. and
Brazil.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Price in Buenos Aires at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  