-- Martha Stewart’s Chow Chow Out as Dalmatian, Dachshund Win at Westminster
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-02-14T16:08:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/martha-stewart-s-chow-chow-out-at-westminster.html
Familiar trumped exotic at the 136th
annual  Westminster Kennel Club  dog show in  New York , as a German
Shepherd, Dalmatian and Wirehaired Dachshund won their group
competitions and spots to compete in the finals tonight.  “These are dogs most people know,” David Frei,
communications director at Westminster, said in an interview at
 Madison Square Garden. (MSG)  “It’s a ‘regular dog’ show.”  Better-known breeds often capture the audience’s heart at
the prestigious pageant. In 2008, Uno invited comparisons with
Snoopy when he became the first beagle to win. Ian the
Dalmatian, potentially the first Westminster winner of his
breed, is marked by artful black spots and a wagging tail that
doesn’t quit.  “He’s silly, crazy, full of life,” Ian’s handler, Michael
Scott, told reporters. In winning the non-sporting group, he
bested a Chow Chow named G.K., short for  Genghis Khan , owned by
 Martha Stewart .  “He loves to be out there,” Jan Kolnik, G.K.’s handler,
said after his ouster.  The fourth finalist is an 11-pound Pekingese named Malachy,
the second-ranked canine in 2011 in  American Kennel Club 
competition. He ambled -- some might say waddled -- to victory
in the toy dog group. Front heavy, his breed is of Chinese
origin, and images of it date back to the eighth century.  “When he looks you in the eye, it’s just beautiful,” said
the judge who selected him last night, Timothy Catterson. The
 New Castle , Indiana-based president of the  Italian Greyhound
Club of America , he added, “If I had that dog in my house I’d
be thrilled.”  Before best in show is chosen by  Cindy Vogels , a breeder
and judge from  Greenwood Village , Colorado, three other
finalists must be selected -- from the sporting, working and
terrier groups. The top-ranked dog, Beckham, a black Cocker
Spaniel, must get past an Irish Setter, Weimaraner and 27 other
champions from the sporting group.  To contact the reporter of this story:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 