-- LDK Leads Solar Slump on German Tariff Reports: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-02-14T23:23:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/asiainfo-leads-drop-in-new-york-index-on-margin-concerns-china-overnight.html
LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  led a drop in Chinese
solar stocks in New York after a French materials supplier said
the companies are reducing orders and Citigroup Inc. signaled
Germany may cut industry subsidies by at least 20 percent.  LDK, a solar-panel maker based in  China ’s south-central
Jiangxi province, sank the most in four months, while solar-
module manufacturer  Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. (YGE)  slid the
most since Jan. 19.  The Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-
traded Chinese shares in the U.S. fell 0.2 percent to 106.54
yesterday in New York, retreating from a five-month high.  Chinese solar companies are cutting back on orders and
asking to delay bill payments, Thomas Baumgertner, chief
financial officer of Paris-based graphite supplier Mersen, said
in an interview yesterday.  Germany , the world’s biggest solar
market, will probably reduce so-called feed-in tariffs, the rate
paid to owners of solar installations in the country, by at
least 20 percent from April, Citigroup analysts led by Timothy Arcuri wrote in a report e-mailed yesterday.  “Germany’s tariff cut may come earlier than expected and
be deeper than expected, which damps investor optimism that has
helped bolster solar stocks,” Arcuri said by phone yesterday.
“Chinese solar companies may not see real earnings as the solar
pricing pressure remains.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., was little changed at $39.39,
after gaining 1.3 percent on Feb. 13. Casino operator  Melco
Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  traded at a 2.4 percent discount to its
shares in Hong Kong.  LDK, Yingli  American depositary receipts of LDK Solar sank 12 percent,
the most since Oct. 3, to $5.55 in New York. ADRs of Yingli,
based in Baoding in northern China, dropped 10 percent to a one-
week low of $4.75. The stock surged 23 percent last week and LDK
is up 33 percent this year.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL) , China’s fifth-largest solar-panel
supplier, fell 8.9 percent to $9.36, the biggest drop in four
weeks.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. (STP) , the world’s largest solar-
panel maker, slumped 8.3 percent, also the biggest decline in
four weeks, to $3.44.  Chinese solar makers “used to pay almost on delivery or
within 30 days, they can now pay within three to six months with
bank guarantees,” Mersen CFO Baumgartner said in an interview
in Paris yesterday.  Hari Chandra Polavarapu, an analyst who covers the Chinese
solar industry at Auriga USA LLC in New York, downgraded ratings
for Yingli and Trina to “hold” from “buy” yesterday. The
 Bloomberg Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS)  dropped 4.9 percent, the
most in two months.  AsiaInfo Margin  AsiaInfo-Linkage Inc. (ASIA) , whose largest customers are China’s
biggest wireless carriers, declined 1.4 percent to a one-week
low of $11.59 after saying that gross margin in the fourth
quarter shrank from a year ago. Its shares tumbled as much as
8.3 percent earlier in the New York day.  The Beijing-based company forecast first-quarter sales of
between $119 million and $121 million on Feb. 13, compared with
the $123.5 million average estimate of four analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Melco Crown’s ADRs, each representing three common shares
in the company, declined 1.7 percent to $11.82 in New York
trading, while its shares in  Hong Kong  gained 4.2 percent to
HK$31.30, the equivalent of $4.04 per share. The ADRs traded at
a 3.5 percent premium over the Hong Kong stock on Feb. 13.  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. , a computer security software
developer based in Beijing, advanced 4.8 percent to $16.98, the
most in two weeks.  Yale University  reported holding shares of
Qihoo stocks in the fourth quarter, along with positions in the
iShares FTSE China ETF, according to a filing with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission yesterday.  Mainland ETF  China’s securities regulator is reviewing an application
from E Fund Management Co. in China to start mainland China’s
first exchange-traded fund tracking the Hong Kong-listed shares
of Chinese companies, according to  data  posted on the website of
the China Securities Regulatory Commission.  An exchange-traded fund linked to Hong Kong stocks was part
of a range of measures unveiled by Vice Premier  Li Keqiang  on
Aug. 17 to boost cross-border investment between the mainland
and the former British colony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  