-- Asia Currencies Drop, Led by Ringgit, as Moody’s Cuts Italy, Spain Ratings
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o   a n d   A n d r e a   W o n g
-- 2012-02-14T08:29:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/asia-currencies-drop-led-by-ringgit-as-moody-s-cuts-italy-spain-ratings.html
Asian currencies weakened after
Moody’s Investors Service cut the debt ratings of six European
countries including Italy, Spain and  Portugal , sapping demand
for riskier assets.  The uncertainty over the euro area’s prospects for changing
its fiscal and economic framework is among the main drivers of
the action, the ratings company said yesterday. Data tomorrow
may show Malaysian economic growth cooled as Europe’s debt
crisis hurt exports and  South Korea ’s jobless rate rose to 3.2
percent in January from 3.1 percent the previous month,
according to Bloomberg News surveys.  The Bloomberg-JPMorgan  Asia  Dollar  Index (ADXY) , which tracks the
region’s 10 most-active currencies excluding the yen, fell 0.2
percent as of 4:03 p.m. in Hong Kong.  Indonesia ’s rupiah slumped
0.8 percent to 9,068 per dollar and the Philippine peso dropped
0.7 percent to 42.745, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Malaysia’s ringgit plunged 0.7 percent to 3.0463.  “ Europe ’s downgrades are hurting risk-taking,” said Eric Hsing, a fixed-income trader at First Securities Inc. in Taipei.
“It’s quite worrying that the austerity measures taken by these
European countries will eventually hurt demand for Asia’s
exports.”  Euro-area finance chiefs will convene in Brussels tomorrow
to decide whether to ratify a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion)
rescue package for  Greece .  Slower Growth  The rupiah weakened by the most since Nov. 28. Indonesia
may lower its 2012 growth target from 6.7 percent, Vice Finance
Minister Anny Ratnawati said today without saying what the new
estimate will be.  The ringgit touched 3.0535 per dollar, the lowest level in
two weeks, before a report tomorrow that is expected to show
gross domestic product expanded 4.8 percent from a year earlier
in the last three months of 2011, based on the median forecast
of economists in a Bloomberg survey. That compares with 5.8
percent growth in the previous quarter.  “Moody’s downgrade is affecting  market sentiment ,” said
Akira Banno, a treasury adviser at Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ
Bhd. in  Kuala Lumpur . “The Malaysian currency could weaken to
3.05 to the dollar because people are cautious and may want to
take some profit.”  South Korea’s won traded near a two-week low, slipping 0.2
percent to 1,123.78 per dollar.  “Negative news from Europe is putting downward pressure on
the won,” said Yu Won Jun, a Seoul-based currency dealer at
Korea Exchange Bank. “Still, exporters are waiting to sell the
dollar as the won weakens, and this will limit won declines.”  Xi-Obama Meeting  Taiwan’s dollar weakened 0.2 percent to NT$29.595 after
global funds sold $142 million more local shares than they
bought yesterday, according to exchange data. The island’s
exports slumped 16.8 percent in January from a year earlier,
after rising 0.6 percent the previous month, the government
reported last week.  China ’s yuan was little changed at 6.2999 per dollar ahead
of a meeting between Vice President  Xi Jinping  and U.S.
President Barack Obama today. China will continue to improve
reform of the yuan’s exchange-rate mechanism, the official
Xinhua News Agency reported yesterday, citing Xi in an interview
with the  Washington  Post. Xi, who is expected to become China’s
next president, will meet Obama in Washington today before
traveling to Iowa and Los Angeles.  “The ratings cut in Europe is just negative to market
sentiment rather than a shock to investors,” said Kenix Lai, a
currency analyst at Bank of East Asia Ltd. in  Hong Kong .
“Investors on the yuan will focus on any outcomes from today’s
meeting between Xi and Obama for implications on appreciation.”  Elsewhere, the Indian rupee fell 0.2 percent to 49.315 per
dollar and the Thai baht weakened 0.2 percent to 30.87.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net ;
Andrea Wong in Taipei at 
 awong268@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  