-- AT&T Must Give Shareholders Net Neutrality Vote
-- B y   J e s s e   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-15T00:04:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/at-t-must-give-beastie-boy-a-vote-on-net-neutrality-sec-decides.html
The U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission has told  AT&T Inc. (T)  and other telecommunications
companies they must include a resolution supporting wireless
net-neutrality in annual shareholder votes.  In a letter posted on the SEC website, the agency asserted
that net neutrality -- the idea that  Internet service  providers
must treat traffic equally -- has become a “significant policy
consideration” and can no longer be excluded from shareholder
ballots. AT&T,  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ)  and  Sprint Nextel
Corp. (S)  must now grant shareholder requests for votes this year on
resolutions that would support net neutrality.  “In view of the sustained public debate over the last
several years concerning net neutrality and the Internet and the
increasing recognition that the issue raises significant policy
considerations, we do not believe that AT&T may omit the
proposal from its proxy materials,” the SEC said in the Feb. 10
 letter .  The shareholder resolution would recommend each company
“publicly commit to operate its wireless broadband network
consistent with network neutrality principles,” the letter
said. The companies should not discriminate based on the
“source, ownership or destination” of data sent over their
wireless infrastructure.  “It allows shareholders to come to the table for the first
time on an issue that we think is really of preeminent
importance,” said Farnum Brown, an investment strategist at
Boston-based Trillium Asset Management LLC, which led the
multiyear effort of shareholder groups. “Persistence pays, I
guess is the moral of the story.”  FCC Regulation  The Democrat-led Federal Communications Commission approved
a regulation in 2010 that bars land-line  Internet-service
providers  from blocking or slowing online content sent to homes
and businesses, while still allowing mobile-phone companies to
put limits on Internet traffic. Verizon sued the FCC in federal
court, arguing the regulator lacks authority to regulate how
companies provide Internet service.  Trillium, with the Benedictine Sisters of Mount St.
Scholastica Inc. and the Nathan Cummings Foundation, had been
seeking access to company ballots for at least four years.  Beastie Boys  Trillium is representing three individual AT&T investors --
Michael Diamond, better known as Mike D of the hip-hop band
Beastie Boys; his wife Tamra Davis, director of films including
“Billy Madison” and “Half Baked”; and John P. Silva, of
Silva Artist Management, which represents recording artists Foo
Fighters and Beck.  AT&T argued the proposal “would directly interfere with
its network management practices and seriously impair its
ability to provide wireless broadband service to its
customers,” David B. Harms, a lawyer at  Sullivan & Cromwell
LLP , wrote in a letter to the SEC on behalf of the company.  Mike Balmoris , a company spokesman, didn’t immediately respond to a
request for comment on the response.  The SEC’s Division of Corporation Finance had found in past
years that similar net-neutrality proposals fell under the
category of day-to-day business operations and that companies
could exclude them from shareholder voting. With the agency
changing its position, the previous exclusion no longer applies.  “Net neutrality is the free speech issue of our time and
today’s decision by the SEC was a big win in the fight to
maintain a free and open Internet,” Senator  Al Franken , a
Minnesota Democrat, said in a statement. Franken had co-written
a Jan. 31 letter to SEC Chairman  Mary Schapiro  with four other
senators, urging the commission to deny the companies’ exclusion
requests.  Reviewing Next Steps  “We received word last week that the SEC declined,” said
 John B. Taylor , a spokesman for Sprint, in an e-mail. “We
understand other companies in our industry received similar
guidance. Sprint is reviewing the information received from the
SEC and potential next steps.”  Bob Varettoni , a spokesman for New York-based Verizon,
declined to comment. His company had argued that this latest
shareholder proposal didn’t offer “any new information that
would indicate that ‘net neutrality’ has emerged as a consistent
topic of widespread public debate,” according to a Dec. 22
letter to the SEC from Mary Louise Weber, an assistant general
counsel at Verizon.  Companies whose requests are declined by the SEC can
challenge the regulator’s findings in court.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jesse Hamilton in  Washington  at 
 jhamilton33@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Maura Reynolds  at   mreynolds34@bloomberg.net . 