-- Tata Motors Net Beats Estimates on Land Rover Sales
-- B y   S i d d h a r t h   P h i l i p
-- 2012-02-14T11:44:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/tata-motors-net-beats-estimates-on-land-rover-sales-correct-.html
(Corrects sales in second paragraph.)  Tata Motors Ltd. (TTMT) , the maker of the
world’s cheapest car, reported profit that beat analysts’
estimates for the first time in  four quarters  as sales at its
luxury unit Jaguar Land Rover surged.  Net income  increased 41 percent to a record 34.1 billion
rupees ($692 million) from 24.2 billion rupees a year earlier,
Mumbai-based Tata Motors said in a statement today. Profit
 surpassed  the 26 billion-rupee median of 21 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Sales rose 45 percent to 452 billion
rupees.  Surging Jaguar and Land Rover sales boosted profitability
as demand in  emerging markets  helped tide over uncertainty in
advanced economies. The Evoque compact sport-utility vehicle and
diesel XF models will spur volume growth at the luxury unit in
the coming quarters, said Hitesh Kuvelkar, an analyst at First
Global Research in Mumbai.  “The company’s outstanding performance comes at a time
when the global economy is passing through a huge crisis and the
western world is witnessing a massive slow down,” Kuvelkar
wrote in a report on Feb. 8. “Going forward, we expect Jaguar
and Land Rover to record decent volume growth,” he wrote.  Global deliveries at the luxury unit rose 45 percent in
December, the biggest monthly gain since June 2010, Tata Motors
said last month. Jaguar Land Rover sales gained 22 percent to
216,412 vehicles in the nine months through December.  Tata Motors rose 3.7 percent to 267.9 rupees at close in
Mumbai trading. The stock has gained 50 percent this year, the
biggest percentage gainer on the 30-company benchmark Sensitive
Index, which has added 15 percent. The company is also the
second-best performer in the last six months on the MSCI Asia
Pacific Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Siddharth Philip in Mumbai at 
 sphilip3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at   ycho2@bloomberg.net . 