-- Attacks on Diplomats Raise Specter of Escalation of Israel-Iran Covert War
-- B y   J o h n   W a l c o t t
-- 2012-02-14T18:29:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/attacks-on-diplomats-raise-specter-of-escalation-of-israel-iran-covert-war.html
U.S. officials and defense analysts
are concerned that a covert war of assassinations between Israel
and Iran could escalate out of control.  “Things are heating up and there is a surge” of
assassination attempts,  Matthew Levitt , a former U.S. Treasury
Department official and now director of the Stein Program on
Counterterrorism and Intelligence at the Washington Institute
for Near East Policy, said in a telephone interview.  Israeli Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  blamed Iran
yesterday for car bombings of Israeli diplomatic vehicles in New
Delhi and the Georgian capital of Tbilisi. The attacks come
after the deaths of several Iranian nuclear scientists, the most
recent in a Jan. 11 car bombing in Tehran that Iran said Israel
had orchestrated.  Israeli leaders have said time is running out for sanctions
to deter Iran from developing nuclear weapons and haven’t ruled
out a military strike. The U.S. and its allies have tightened
economic restrictions on Iran while seeking to avert a military
conflagration in a region that holds more than half of global
oil reserves.  The attacks came a day after the fourth anniversary of the
killing of Imad Mughniyeh, who was a leader of the military wing
of the Iranian-backed Lebanese Hezbollah movement, which  Israel 
and the U.S consider a terrorist organization.  Israeli Vow  Four people were injured in New Delhi, including the wife
of an Israeli diplomat and her Indian driver, in a blast about
500 meters (1,640 feet) from Israel’s embassy, Indian Foreign
Ministry spokesman Syed Akbaruddin said in a text message. A
bomb planted in an Israeli embassy employee’s car in Tbilisi was
discovered and defused before it exploded. Officials in Thailand
said an Iranian was critically injured in a grenade explosion
today as he and two others tried to escape arrest in Bangkok.  “Israel will act methodically and with determination and
steadfastness against international terrorism originating from
Iran,” Netanyahu said in comments to parliament sent to
reporters by text message.  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  drew an
explicit link between the three attacks as well as two earlier
events today as she commented today on the Thai attack.  U.S. Comment  “With regard to this bombing, the incidents in Delhi,
incidents in  Georgia , while we will await the results of the
investigations, these events do come on the heels of other
disrupted attacks targeted at Israel and Western interests,
including an Iranian-sponsored attack in Baku,  Azerbaijan , and a
Hezbollah-linked attack in Bangkok, Thailand, before this,”
Nuland told reporters.  She said the U.S. sees the use of international terrorism
as a foreign policy tool as “reprehensible.”  Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  condemned yesterday’s
attacks, and Iran denied any connection to them. White House
press spokesman  Jay Carney  said the U.S. is concerned about the
targeting of Israeli interests, adding that the American
government doesn’t have information about who sponsored the
operations.  U.S. intelligence officials and analysts said the latest
incidents appear to fit a pattern of escalating violence between
Israel and  Iran , some of it probably carried out by Hezbollah in
concert with elements of Iran’s Revolutionary Guard Corps.  Changed Calculus  In his annual threat assessment to Congress on Jan. 31,
Director of National Intelligence James Clapper said an alleged
plot last year to assassinate the Saudi Arabian ambassador to
the U.S. “shows that some Iranian leaders -- probably including
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei -- have changed their
calculus and are now more willing to conduct an attack in the
 United States  in response to real or perceived U.S. actions that
threaten the regime. We are also concerned about Iranian
plotting against U.S. or allied interests overseas.”  Another U.S. intelligence official, speaking on condition
of anonymity because intelligence matters are classified, said
there is growing concern that Khamenei, who he said controls the
Revolutionary Guard and its elite Qods Force, is becoming more
isolated and radical and less risk-averse, partly in reaction to
heightened Western economic pressure on his country and its
nuclear program.  Coincidence of Interests  Four U.S. officials who spoke on condition of anonymity
cited a planned Hezbollah attack that was prevented in  Thailand 
and what they said were other anti-Israeli operations that were
disrupted in Azerbaijan and  Bulgaria . Thai police charged a
Swedish-Lebanese man they said was linked to Hezbollah with
possessing illegal substances after he was detained last month
in connection with a plan to attack tourist sites frequented by
Americans and Israelis, Charamporn Suramanee, the assistant
police chief, said on Jan. 16.  Levitt said this period resembles the years 1992 to 1994,
when Hezbollah and Iran had a coincidence of interests in
attacking Israeli targets similar to the situation today. Those
years included a 1992 bomb attack on an Israeli embassy building
in  Buenos Aires  and a 1994 attack on a Jewish  community center 
in the Argentine capital, both blamed on Hezbollah.  This time, Hezbollah is seeking to avenge Mughniyeh’s 2008
death in Damascus, and Iran is responding to the killings of its
nuclear scientists, having blamed Israel in both cases, Levitt
said.  ‘Iranian Retaliation’  “The most likely possibility is that this is Iranian
retaliation for assassinations of the scientists,” said Paul Pillar, a former CIA analyst who now teaches at  Georgetown
University , in an e-mail response to a query. “Even the method
used was the same as the most recent such assassination” of the
Iranian scientist.  Khamenei pledged Feb. 3 to help “any nation or group that
confronts the Zionist regime.”  Indian and Georgian authorities said they were trying to
determine who was behind the attacks.  The attack in  New Delhi  was carried out by somebody who had
been “well trained,”  India ’s Home Minister Palaniappan Chidambaram told reporters today. The government isn’t
“pointing the finger” at any group as its investigation is
continuing, he said.  “There is reason to believe that the target was the
Israeli diplomat’s wife and, therefore, one has to proceed on
the basis that it was a terrorist attack,” he said.  Injured Israeli  The Israeli injured in the Delhi explosion was in stable
condition in a hospital in the city, Police Commissioner B.K.
Gupta told reporters. A fire engulfed the car moments after the
blast and was responsible for most of the damage to the vehicle,
he said.  “The Israeli car was targeted, there is no doubt about
it,” Gupta said.  Initial investigations suggest that a magnetic device was
attached to the car in New Delhi before it exploded, Gupta said.
At least three other people including the driver were hurt in
the explosion that occurred as the car drove toward the city’s
American Embassy School, he said.  Iran’s ambassador to India, Mahdi Nabizadeh, rejected
charges his country was behind the attacks. According to Iran’s
official news agency IRNA, Nabizadeh called the Israeli
accusations “lies” and said his government condemned any
“terrorist” acts. Iranian Foreign Ministry spokesman  Ramin Mehmanparast  said the accusations “are part of a propaganda
war” by Israel, according to a report on state-run Press TV’s
website today.  In Tbilisi, an Israeli embassy employee discovered the bomb
and reported it to police, who defused it, Georgian Interior
Ministry spokesman Shota Utiashvili said by phone. There were no
injuries and the embassy wasn’t evacuated, he said.  The incident in Thailand followed an explosion at a rented
house, according to officials in Bangkok. Five people were hurt.
Police said two men, possibly Iranian, escaped.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Walcott in Washington at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  