-- Austria Bank Capital Needs Decisive for Aaa Rating, Moody’s Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-02-14T13:38:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/austria-dismisses-moody-s-negative-outlook-on-country-s-aaa-1-.html
Austria ’s top debt ranking is most
threatened by the potential for another round of state aid for
the nation’s banks, Moody’s Investors Service said, the second
such alarm from a rating company in as many months.  Moody’s cut Austria’s outlook to “negative” and may strip
its Aaa rating if lenders require a second bailout, given the
nation’s finances have worsened since 2008, the company said
yesterday. The outlook could return to “stable” if banks can
bolster capital without state help, Moody’s said. Standard &
Poor’s cited bank risks when it cut Austria to AA+ last month.  “We don’t think the Austrian debt level is worrisome or
out of sync with debt levels in other European countries, but
the potential contingent liability is bigger than in other
countries, and the debt ratio is at the higher end of the
triple-A rating category,” Kathrin Muehlbronner, Moody’s head
analyst on Austria, said in an interview.  The nation’s biggest banks, including  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS) ,
 Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI)  and  UniCredit SpA (UCG) ’s Bank
Austria unit, are the biggest lenders in eastern Europe and face
major losses in  Hungary . Austria nationalized two banks on the
brink of collapse in 2008 and 2009, and will remain saddled with
their non-performing or unsellable assets of more than 30
billion euros ($40 billion) as they are wound down for years.  Moody’s says Austria’s debt-to-gross-domestic-product ratio
was about 75 percent in 2011, compared with a median of 52
percent for Aaa-rated countries. The government has responded to
the debt crisis with a 26.5 billion-euro plan to raise taxes and
cut spending.  ‘Volatile Countries’  Austria was among nine European sovereigns to have ratings
cut or their outlook changed yesterday. Bond investors shrugged
off the reports from Moody’s today, with borrowing costs falling
at Spanish and Italian debt auctions on optimism the crisis is
easing.  Austrian bonds  were little changed, with the 10-year
yield rising 1 basis point to 2.88 percent at noon local time.  “Investors are making up their own minds, and the low
yields we are seeing shows that our measures have an impact,”
Austrian Chancellor Werner Faymann said today.  Austria still has more work to do, Muehlbronner said.  Its banking system is “relatively large, has a very large
exposure to the more volatile countries in central and eastern
 Europe , and is also reliant on wholesale funding,” with lower
credit ratings than banks in other Aaa countries, she said.
“Austria is not necessarily out of the woods.”  Repaying Aid  Erste, Raiffeisen and the other Austrian banks have lent a
combined $266 billion to borrowers in eastern Europe, about 70
percent of the Alpine nation’s gross domestic product. That
figure doesn’t include the Italian-owned Bank Austria.  A large part of the banks’ loans are refinanced with local
deposits, limiting the risk for the parent company, though
that’s not the case in Hungary and  Romania , which has prompted
the Austrian central bank to issue new rules for lending in
eastern Europe.  “We take note of the attempt by the Austrian regulator to
reduce the funding mismatch in the central and eastern European
countries where it is present, but we think that this is going
to take a while,” Muehlbronner said.  Erste has shelved plans to repay 1.2 billion euros in state
aid after writing down assets that will lead to a loss for last
year. Raiffeisen hasn’t given a date to repay its 1.75 billion
euros in state aid, while Bank Austria didn’t get any aid.  No Additional Aid  All three institutions have ruled out asking for more, and
Finance Minister Maria Fekter said today that no other bank has
done so.  “We’re monitoring the overall situation of banks and
whether they are on a sound footing,” Fekter told journalists,
calling Moody’s outlook change “regrettable.”  Austria nationalized  Oesterreichische Volksbanken AG (VBPS) ’s
Kommunalkredit unit in 2008. The state will back its “bad
bank” KA Finanz AG for years to come as it winds down 24
billion euros of assets including credit-default swaps on
 Greece . That bank may need fresh capital this year, depending on
the terms under which Greece swaps its debt.  The state also nationalized BayernLB’s Hypo Alpe-Adria-Bank
International AG in 2009. That institution’s wind-down unit is
holding about 10 billion euros of assets that are non-performing
or unsellable.  Volksbanken, which was relieved of Kommunalkredit in 2008
and received 1 billion euros of state aid in 2009, will report
another loss of at least 825 million euros for 2011 and has
failed to repay 300 million euros of state aid last year.  Wind-Down Unit  The bank is planning to spin off a wind-down unit, which
some of its owners would like to foist on the government, Format
magazine reported last year. Fekter has said her desire to
nationalize Volksbanken is “very limited.”  While the concerns about Austria’s banks are “not new,”
Moody’s said that the country’s debt level is higher than when
it last supported banks in 2008 and 2009 and is on an “upward
trajectory.”  “Some of the measures in the Austrian budget package
haven’t been confirmed yet, such as the financial transaction
tax or the  tax treaty  with  Switzerland ,” Muehlbronner said.
“There is some uncertainty whether everything will be in
place.”  France  and the U.K. also had their top ratings put on a
negative outlook by Moody’s yesterday, while  Italy , Malta,
 Portugal , Slovakia, Slovenia and  Spain ’s ratings were cut.  “This Moody’s report does not just refer to Austria, it
refers to a significant part of the overall developments of
Europe,” European Central Bank Governing Council member Ewald Nowotny said today in an interview broadcast by state-run ORF
radio. “The savings package is part of the overall perspective,
but it shows it was important to conclude this package.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  