-- Avon Products Climbs on Plan to Cut Jobs at Door-to-Door Cosmetics Seller
-- B y   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-02-14T21:23:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/avon-reports-quarterly-loss-after-silpada-impairment-charge.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP) , the door-to-door
cosmetics seller conducting an internal bribery probe, advanced
after saying it will cut jobs and identify other ways to reduce
costs.  Avon  rose  1.5 percent to $17.80 at the close in New York.  Chief Financial Officer Kimberly Ross said today on a
conference call that the company has opportunities to reduce its
headcount immediately. Avon is working with McKinsey & Co. to
restructure its global operations and cut costs in  North
America , a person familiar with the matter said yesterday.  Fourth-quarter profit excluding restructuring costs and
expenses related to its Silpada jewelry business totaled 39
cents a share, New York-based Avon said today in a statement.
Analysts projected 53 cents, the average of  estimates  compiled
by Bloomberg. Avon said sales declined and costs increased
during the quarter amid higher distribution expenses.  Avon is looking to replace Chief Executive Officer  Andrea Jung  after slowing sales and internal probes prompted a 40
percent drop in its shares last year. Jung said on the call that
the CEO search was “proceeding well.”  “They’re going to address what they can and what they
know should be addressed no matter who the next CEO is,” Connie Maneaty, an analyst at BMO Capital Markets in New York, said
today in a telephone interview. “This is a long turnaround
story -- it’s not going to happen anytime soon.”  Maneaty rates the shares “outperform.”  SEC Probe  The company is investigating potential violations of the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which outlaws bribing foreign
officials. Avon also said in October that the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission is probing the company’s foreign
operations and its dealings with analysts.  Avon said it will update investors on the investigation
after a new CEO has been hired. The company announced in
December it will split the chairman and CEO roles. Jung, who has
led Avon since 1999, will remain chairman.  Fourth-quarter revenue fell 4.2 percent to $3.04 billion.  The net loss totaled $400,000, or breakeven on a per-share
basis, compared with net income of $229.5 million, or 53 cents,
a year earlier, Avon said. The results included non-cash
expenses of $263 million to write down its Silpada unit’s
goodwill because of the rise in silver prices.  Avon purchased Silpada, a jewelry company focused on
sterling silver, in 2010 for about $650 million to broaden its
product line.  Last month, former vice chairman Charles Cramb became the
highest-ranking executive to leave in connection with the
probes. Cramb had served as head of Avon’s developed market
group and previously as CFO.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  