-- Avon Said to Plan Global Restructuring
-- B y   C a r o l   H y m o w i t z   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/avon-said-to-plan-global-restructuring-amid-declining-profit.html
Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  is planning to
restructure its global operations with the help of McKinsey &
Co., according to a person familiar with the matter.  The overhaul includes cutting costs in Avon’s North
American unit, said the person, who declined to be identified
because the matter is private. Avon’s North American sales have
dropped every year since 2007 and slid about 7 percent in the
third quarter. The company may provide details as early as
today, said the person.  Avon is trying to turn around two years of declining profit
and find a replacement for Chief Executive Officer  Andrea Jung 
while at the same time investigating allegations that executives
bribed foreign officials. That probe has now been taken up by a
U.S. grand jury, a person familiar with that matter said
yesterday.  “This is a rudderless ship right now, and trying to turn
it massively may not get you anywhere,”  Ali Dibadj , an analyst
at Sanford C. Bernstein & Co. in New York, said yesterday in an
interview. “The problem with Avon isn’t that it needs a
restructuring, it’s that it has been in perpetual restructuring,
literally for the past 15 years.”  Avon is projected to report today that fourth-quarter
profit fell to 51 cents a share, the average estimate of 15
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The New York-based company
posted profit of 59 cents a year earlier.  Avon fell 1.9 percent to $17.53 yesterday in New York. The
 shares  have tumbled 40 percent in the past year.  Yolande Daeninck, a spokeswoman for New York-based
McKinsey, declined to comment about its work with Avon. Victor Beaudet, vice president of Avon’s corporate communications,
declined to comment.  Avon Review  Jung told investors on an Oct. 27 earnings call that Avon
was “conducting an in-depth operational and financial review”
that would look at its markets, management roles and capital
allocation, among other things.  Avon may benefit from a restructuring that reduces its
expenses, which are higher than at most of its competitors,
Dibadj said. The company’s 2010 fiscal year operating margin,
which measures its operating profit as a percentage of sales,
was 9.9 percent, trailing the 18.3 percent average for consumer
staples companies in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index that year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aside from the financial difficulties, Avon may have
trouble finding a new CEO because Jung has said she plans to
remain chairman, said  Jay Lorsch , a corporate governance
professor at  Harvard Business School  in  Boston .  Inhibited Board  “Most people looking to be a CEO don’t want to go to a
company where their predecessor is now chairman,” Lorsch said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “When that’s the case, your
board will feel inhibited and you as the new CEO will feel
inhibited, so it’s seen as a bad idea, even when a company
doesn’t face legal or other problems.”  When Jung, 53, ascended to the top job in 1999, the company
appointed executives with strong operations backgrounds to
bolster her marketing-heavy experience, honed at retailers such
as Bloomingdale’s and  Neiman Marcus . Some eventually left and
weren’t replaced, most recently President Liz Smith in 2009, who
was considered a potential successor.  Jung has served as the company’s public face, touting it as
“the company for women” that helped its iconic “Avon ladies”
attain economic independence.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in  New York  at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  