-- Lawmakers Gear Up for Election-Year Fight Over $1.33 Trillion U.S. Deficit
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-02-14T18:34:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/lawmakers-gear-up-for-election-year-battle-over-budget-deficit.html
Republicans rejected President
 Barack Obama ’s $3.8 trillion election-year budget plan before it
arrived at the Capitol and said they will offer an alternative
that relies on spending cuts to reduce the deficit.  “All we’re getting here is more spending, more borrowing,
more debt,” said House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan , a
Wisconsin Republican. “This is not a fiscal plan to save
America from a debt crisis and to grow the economy. It’s a
political plan for the president’s re-election.”  House Republicans , eager to help their party regain the
White House in November, said Obama’s plan was full of gimmicks
and didn’t go far enough to reduce the federal budget deficit or
boost economic growth.  The Republicans plan to unveil their budget framework next
month. While Obama called yesterday for raising tax rates for
the nation’s highest earners, congressional Republicans are
demanding tax-cut extensions. Ryan and his fellow Republicans
want deeper reductions in non-defense spending, an approach
Obama said yesterday puts the economic recovery at risk.  “At a time when our economy is growing and creating jobs
at a faster clip, we’ve got to do everything in our power to
keep this recovery on track,” Obama said yesterday at Northern
Virginia Community College in suburban Washington. “We can’t
just cut our way into growth.”  The near-opposite approaches to trimming the deficit point
to continued stalemate, one that probably won’t be broken until
after the November election.  Deficit Math  The administration’s budget plan, for the fiscal year that
begins Oct. 1, doesn’t follow up on Obama’s pledge to halve the
 budget deficit  by the end of his first term. The budget projects
this year’s shortfall at $1.33 trillion, down about 15 percent
from $1.549 trillion in fiscal 2009 when Obama took office.  Obama’s plan for fiscal 2013 estimates that next fiscal
year’s deficit would be $901 billion under his policies. The
shortfall would narrow to $575 billion by 2018, the budget
projects. Publicly held debt would continue to grow, to $18.7
trillion by 2022, which would be 77 percent of the nation’s
gross domestic product.  The budget proposes reining in the debt primarily by
raising a number of taxes for high earners, including allowing
the expiration of the 2001 and 2003 tax cuts for those earning
more than $250,000. Also for high earners, the plan would raise
tax rates on dividends, reduce the value of their deduction and
impose a 30 percent minimum tax on those earning more than $1
million annually.  Entitlement Programs  The budget proposal would cut spending on entitlement
programs, though it wouldn’t go nearly as far as budget experts
say will be necessary to narrow the deficit. Obama’s budget
projects annual spending on Medicare and Medicaid will double
over the next decade, even as federal payments to Medicare
providers including hospitals would be cut by $268 billion.
Social Security costs will climb by 75 percent during that time
with the program’s annual budget reaching a projected $1.4
trillion by 2022.  Acting White House Budget Office Director Jeffrey Zients,
who was criticized today by Republicans at a congressional
hearing, acknowledged more would have to be done on
entitlements.  “We view this budget as an important milestone, real
progress -- at the end of the day more needs to be done,”
Zients told the Senate Budget Committee. “Let’s get this
chapter under our belt, let’s achieve this level of  deficit
reduction  and we can look up and talk about more.”  $4 Trillion  Republicans rejected the administration’s claims that its
plan would reduce the projected deficit by $4 trillion, saying
the figure includes more than $1 trillion in savings that
lawmakers already agreed to last year.  The budget plan includes $800 billion in savings from what
Republicans call an accounting gimmick involving war funds.
Obama’s budget presumes war costs would continue to grow each
year, for the next decade, with inflation.  Because of the drawdown of troops in  Iraq , actual costs are
far below that, and the administration is claiming the
difference as savings. Republicans say the money wouldn’t have
been spent anyway so it shouldn’t be counted as savings.  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts governor and
Republican presidential hopeful, has called for raising the
Social Security retirement age and slowing the growth in
benefits for wealthier retirees. He has endorsed a plan, similar
to Ryan’s, that would give seniors the option of receiving
federal subsidies to buy private health insurance instead of
participating in Medicare.  ‘Entitlement Crisis’  Romney said yesterday that Obama’s plan hadn’t “taken any
meaningful steps towards solving our entitlement crisis.” He
said in a statement, “We can save Social Security and Medicare
with a few common-sense reforms and -- unlike President Obama --
I’m not afraid to put them on the table.”  Republican presidential candidate  Rick Santorum  said, “The
American people have spoken loudly for the past three years,
demanding fiscal responsibility from our leaders, and President
Obama is either deaf or simply won’t listen.”  Under Obama’s plan, wealthier beneficiaries would begin
paying higher premiums in 2017. Medicaid, the federal-state
health-care program for the poor, would be pared by $51 billion.  Farm Subsidies  Obama also calls for a number of other changes to so-called
mandatory programs, including paring  farm subsidies , requiring
federal employees to contribute more to their  retirement plans 
and charging companies more for federal pension insurance.  The budget plan would increase spending for several
programs and includes an additional $350 billion in short-term
funds to boost the economy through infrastructure spending and
aid to cash-strapped states. Both have been rejected by Congress
in the past. The administration sees the economy growing this
year by 2.7 percent, a forecast that’s more optimistic than
those of private economists or Federal Reserve policy makers.  Some of the Republicans’ concerns were shared by non-
partisan, anti-deficit advocacy groups.  “There are a number of good policies in this budget, but
the use of this war gimmick is quite troubling,” said Maya MacGuineas, head of the Washington-based Committee for a
Responsible Federal Budget.  ‘Positive Changes’  “Obama’s budget calls for some positive changes in
entitlement spending but they fall short of the sweeping reforms
that will be needed,” said the Concord Coalition in a
statement.  Senate Budget Committee Chairman  Kent Conrad , a North
Dakota Democrat, acknowledged that “more has to be done” on
deficit reduction and “we all know that this is the
beginning.” He said, “To do more than what the president has
proposed will require both sides to come together.”  Representative  Chris Van Hollen  of  Maryland , the top
Democrat on the House Budget Committee, said, “I’ve heard our
Republican colleagues today bashing the president’s budget. I’m
looking forward to theirs,” predicting it will “gut
investments” and “shred the social safety net.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Steven Komarow  at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  