-- Tax Increases, Debt Limit Loom Over Budget Debate: Peter Orszag
-- B y   P e t e r   O r s z a g
-- 2012-02-14T14:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/tax-increases-debt-limit-loom-over-budget-debate-peter-orszag.html
Most people understandably won’t
make it to Table 6-2 of the Analytical Perspectives companion
volume released with the Obama administration’s  budget . This
table, though, foreshadows the fight that will come at about
this time next year -- and is thus one good way to view the
budget as a whole.  Table 6-2 shows that even with a somewhat sunny outlook for
economic growth this year, the amount of government debt that is
applicable to the debt limit is projected to reach, by the end
of September, $16.3 trillion. The debt-limit itself currently
stands at $16.4 trillion. So by next January, if not sooner, we
will again be debating a debt-limit increase -- at the same time
that significant spending reductions and tax-cut expirations are
scheduled to take effect. The journey through this fiscal maze
next year will make last summer’s debt-limit debate look like
child’s play.  In the meantime, we should keep five basic fiscal
principles in mind. The administration’s budget abides by most
of them, albeit to varying degrees.  First, in the short run, we should continue to support the
economy, which is finally showing some glimmers of life, with
additional stimulus. The apparent breakthrough on extending the
payroll-tax holiday, which is scheduled to expire at the end of
this month, is encouraging from this perspective. President  Barack Obama ’s budget proposes even more short-term support for the
economy. And although the additional measures -- more spending
on roads, bridges and other infrastructure projects, for example
-- may not be enacted this year, the administration deserves
kudos for continuing to propose them.  Forecasts Are Uncertain  Second, whenever possible, we should  tie additional
stimulus  to economic indicators -- for example, the  unemployment
rate  or the employment-to-population ratio -- rather than trying
to guess precisely when the support will no longer be needed.
The economic picture has been looking better in recent months,
but the truth is that we’ve been here before, both during the
summer of 2009 and the early part of 2011, and have seen the
economy then sputter. Economic forecasts are extremely
unreliable, and rather than pretend to know the exact date when
the economy will no longer need help, it would be better to take
the guesswork out. Unfortunately, the policy debate once again
seems to presume we know for sure how the economy will perform
this year and next.  Third, upfront stimulus should be coupled with  deficit
reduction  that takes effect with a delay -- both because that
would help to make the stimulus marginally more effective and
because it would help to address an underlying long-term problem
the nation faces. No one should favor immediate fiscal austerity
when the labor market remains so weak, but the optimal
combination from a policy perspective remains to combine more
stimulus now with much more deficit reduction, enacted now, to
take effect over time. (By the way, my strong support for such a
coupled stimulus approach, including while I served in the  Obama
administration , has been misinterpreted by some as strong
opposition to additional stimulus. That is simply wrong.) The
administration’s new budget includes less of the out-year
deficit reduction than it should. When we run into the fiscal
trifecta next year -- as we hit the debt ceiling and face
automatic spending cuts and tax increases -- more will
ultimately be necessary to get a deal done.  Need for Revenue  Fourth, to significantly reduce the deficit over the next
decade,  additional revenue  will be needed. The administration’s
 budget proposal projects  revenue to reach 20 percent of gross
domestic product by 2022, about 1 percentage point of GDP more
than what is projected with no policy change. The administration
deserves credit for proposing even that, given the antipathy to
any tax increases. But in the end more revenue will be needed.
And since the administration’s budget probably shows the outer
limit of what’s plausible in terms of taxing high-income
households, the implication is that middle-income households
will have to pay more, too.  Finally, while the large fiscal-policy questions will
remain in limbo until the end of the year, there are many small-
scale things that could be done. The administration’s budget
contains many such ideas. For example, it proposes altering the
structure of fees paid by airlines and private jets, to better
reflect the fact that each flight (and not the number of
passengers on board) imposes a cost on  air traffic control 
systems. And it proposes making it easier for workers who aren’t
offered a 401(k) plan to save automatically in an individual
retirement account set up by their employer. The administration
is also promoting a “Pay for Success” approach in several grant
programs, under which the government would pay only if agreed-
upon objectives (such as improvements in job placement or
reductions in recidivism) are achieved.  While we wait for the fiscal drama early next year, we
might as well get busy doing some of these things.  (Peter Orszag is vice chairman of global banking at
Citigroup Inc. and a former director of the Office of Management
and Budget in the Obama administration. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 Peter Orszag  at  orszagbloomberg@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Mary Duenwald at   mduenwald@bloomberg.net  