-- Bahrain Arrests Demonstrators Ahead of Anti-Government Protest Anniversary
-- B y   D o n n a   A b u - N a s r
-- 2012-02-14T18:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/bahrain-authorities-arrest-demonstrators-on-protest-anniversary.html
Mainly Shiite Muslim protesters in
 Bahrain  marked the first anniversary of their anti-government
rallies by marching toward the former Pearl Roundabout, the
focus of last year’s demonstrations.  Riot police fired tear gas at the protesters heading to the
location, where the roundabout has been demolished and turned
into an intersection. Dense black smoke rose in the distance as
demonstrators burned tires in Shiite villages. Authorities
arrested at least 25 people, including nine women, who were on
their way to the roundabout site, Mohammed al-Maskati, president
of the Bahrain Youth Society for Human Rights, said by phone.  “They are storming houses suspected of harboring
demonstrators, using tear gas, closing roads and arresting
people,” al-Maskati said.  Protests led by Bahrain’s Shiite majority broke out a year
ago demanding democracy and equal rights from the Sunni
monarchy, leading to a crackdown by security forces in which
troops from neighboring  Saudi Arabia  and other Sunni-ruled Gulf
countries were called in.  The Interior Ministry said in a Twitter posting that
“rioters” were arrested for blocking traffic on a major
highway and would face prosecution.  The U.S. urged the government and people of Bahrain to work
together and refrain from violence. The Obama administration
supports the government’s pledge to fully implement the
recommendations of the Bahraini Independent Commission of
Inquiry, which looked into last year’s violence, State
Department spokesman  Victoria Nuland  said today.  Not Easy  “This is not going to be easy,” Nuland said. “But making
these kinds of deep-seated institutional changes that the BICI
has called for will help forge the kind of path we need to see
towards reconciliation in Bahrain.”  She said Bahrain is a “longstanding” and “valued”
partner of the U.S., which bases the Navy’s Fifth Fleet there.  The state-run Bahrain News Agency said in a Twitter posting
that several people set fire to an electric transmitter in the
Shiite village of Mughsha and attacked civil defense workers to
prevent firefighters from putting out the fire.  Gulf Force  Bahrain’s army chief said on Twitter today that the
commander of Peninsula Shield, as the Gulf force is called, is
in the country and there are no plans for the troops to leave.  Tensions in the island nation have simmered in Shiite
villages throughout the past year and have recently spread to
the capital, Manama, as protests became more violent in the run-
up to today’s anniversary.  The area surrounding the Pearl Roundabout, which was the
center of the demonstrations in February and March last year,
has been turned into a military zone restricted by barbed wire.
Protesters have tried several times to reoccupy it.  The government has warned Bahrainis against responding to
protest calls, saying civil disorder won’t be tolerated. A march
by al-Wefaq, the largest Shiite group, turned violent yesterday
with participants hurling Molotov cocktails and rocks at police,
according to the security forces. Police used tear gas and stun
grenades, opposition groups said.  Opposition parties said in a joint statement yesterday that
they will continue pressing for their rights and will make “no
compromise on the blood of the martyrs.”  Thirty-five people died in the two months from Feb. 14,
according to the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry. The
opposition says many more have died from tear-gas inhalation and
torture, allegations the government denies.  The ruling al-Khalifa family accused Shiite-ruled Iran of
encouraging the unrest, an allegation the Islamic republic has
denied. Shiites represent about two-thirds of Bahrain’s native
population, according to the U.S. State Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donna Abu Nasr in Manama at 
 dabunasr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  