-- Banco do Brasil Profit Beats Estimates on Lending Growth; Shares Gain
-- B y   F r a n c i s c o   M a r c e l i n o
-- 2012-02-14T16:57:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/banco-do-brasil-profit-falls-18-on-votorantim-unit-s-losses.html
Banco do Brasil SA ,  Latin America ’s
biggest bank by assets, reported fourth-quarter profit that beat
analysts’ estimates after cutting some expenses and gaining
market share. The stock rose.  Adjusted net income, which excludes extraordinary events,
fell to 3.03 billion reais ($1.77 billion) from 3.7 billion
reais a year earlier, the Brasilia-based lender said in a
regulatory filing today. That beat the  average  estimate of 2.6
billion reais in a Bloomberg survey of 11 analysts.  Loans grew 20 percent, faster than the industry average,
while net interest margin improved because of increased funding
from  demand deposits , according to a report by Itau BBA
Securities today. Banco do Brasil rose 3.2 percent to 27.22
reais at 2:31 p.m. in  Sao Paulo , the most since Jan. 18.  “Results improved significantly, confirming our view that
the weak third quarter was transitory,”  Mario Pierry , an
analyst at Deutsche Bank AG in Sao Paulo, wrote in a note to
clients.  Rising income from lending helped offset a loss in the
Banco Votorantim unit, which mainly handles auto loans. The unit
had a loss of 656 million reais in the fourth quarter, compared
with net income of 272 million reais in the same period of 2010.
Votorantim’s average delinquency rate, defined as a delay in
payment of at least 90 days, rose to 5.8 percent in December, up
from 4.3 percent in September and 1.6 percent a year earlier.  Default Rate  Chief Executive Officer Aldemir Bendine said he expects
Banco do Brasil’s default rate to remain stable in 2012, after
ending December at 2.1 percent. Votorantim’s delinquencies will
decline this year after the central bank eased restrictions on
 consumer credit  in November and started cutting  interest rates 
in August, Bendine told reporters in Sao Paulo today.  Chief Financial Officer Ivan Monteiro said that Banco do
Brasil’s local loan portfolio will expand 17 percent to 21
percent this year. Domestic loans reached 423 billion reais at
the end of December, according to the regulatory filing.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francisco Marcelino in São Paulo at 
 mdeoliveira@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  