-- Bankrupt Jefferson County, Alabama, Authorizes Hiring of Manager for Debt
-- B y   B r i a n   C h a p p a t t a   a n d   K a t h l e e n   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-14T23:01:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/bankrupt-jefferson-county-alabama-authorizes-hiring-of-manager-for-debt.html
Commissioners of  Jefferson County (3681MF) ,
which began the biggest U.S. municipal-bankruptcy proceeding in
November, agreed to hire a manager for its $4.2 billion debt at
a meeting in Birmingham,  Alabama .  The capital structure and investments director will work
with the commission, an investment committee and the county
attorney to organize debt accounts for the court, commission
members said at the meeting today. The job will provide annual
compensation of $130,000.  “We have to restructure our finance department,” County
Manager Tony Petelos said by telephone, citing the fiscal
situation confronting the most-populous county in the state. The
commission voted 4-0 to approve the new position.  Among its long-term debts, $3.1 billion is in defaulted
bonds tied to sewers. The county sought  bankruptcy protection 
Nov. 9 after failing to put in place a tentative agreement that
called for a $1 billion cut in the amount owed, as well as rate
increases and legislative action. Borrowing to overhaul the
waste-disposal system led to the insolvency.  Hiring a capital director will help restore the county’s
finance department, Petelos said. It has no chief financial
officer, finance director or chief accountant, he said, although
it has interviewed candidates for some of those jobs.  Control of Revenue  Officials from Jefferson County and  Bank of New York Mellon
Corp. , the trustee for bondholders, have been in talks about how
much of the sewer system’s revenue must be turned over to
investors. The plant doesn’t generate enough money to cover
warrants on sewer debt, according to court records.  The county’s slide to bankruptcy began in 1996, when it was
forced to rebuild the sewer system after pollution was found
spewing into rivers. Risky derivative financing tainted by
political corruption backfired beginning in 2008, and the county
became one of the biggest victims of the credit crisis.  In November 2009,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  agreed to a $722
million settlement with the Securities and Exchange Commission
over payments the agency said bankers made to people tied to
county politicians to win business.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Chappatta in  New York  at 
 bchappatta1@bloomberg.net ;
Kathleen Edwards in Birmingham.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  