-- BOJ Unexpectedly Adds Stimulus as It Sets 1% Target for Inflation: Economy
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   K e i k o   U j i k a n e
-- 2012-02-14T10:03:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/bank-of-japan-unexpectedly-adds-to-monetary-easing-after-economy-contracts.html
Japan’s central bank  unexpectedly
added 10 trillion yen ($128 billion) to an asset-purchase
program and set an inflation goal after an economic slide fueled
criticism it has been slower to act than counterparts.  An asset fund increased to 30 trillion yen, with a credit
lending program staying at 35 trillion yen, the  Bank of Japan 
said in  Tokyo  today. The BOJ also said that it will target 1
percent inflation “for the time being.”  Stocks rose and the yen weakened against the dollar as the
central bank expanded stimulus for the first time since October
to revive an economy that shrank an annualized 2.3 percent last
quarter. Lawmakers had urged extra efforts to counter deflation
after the  Federal Reserve  adopted a 2 percent inflation target
and the  European Central Bank  expanded its balance sheet.  Today’s decision “shows the BOJ bowed to political
pressure,” said  Hiroaki Muto , a senior economist at Sumitomo
Mitsui Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “There will probably be
limited impact on the yen’s gains.”  The overnight lending rate stayed between zero and 0.1
percent. Twelve of 13 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had
anticipated no change in stimulus or rates.  Japan ’s bonds rose, sending the yields on five-year
securities down two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point, to
0.32 percent as of 6:56 p.m. in Tokyo, matching the lowest since
November. The benchmark 10-year yield also declined two basis
points to 0.96 percent.  ‘Overcome Deflation’  The BOJ’s price framework is similar to that of the Fed
and easing wasn’t in response to government pressure, Governor
Masaaki Shirakawa said at a press briefing in Tokyo. The central
bank aimed to “clarify its monetary policy stance” and wants
to “overcome deflation and achieve sustainable growth with
 price stability ,” it said in a statement.  The BOJ’s stated understanding of price stability has been
gains of from above zero to 2 percent, centered on 1 percent.
Today the policy board said it had “decided to set a goal of 1
percent for the time being to clarify the inflation rate which
the bank’s monetary policy aims to achieve.”  The yen fell to 78.12 per dollar as of 6:56 p.m. in Tokyo,
from 77.60 before the announcement and compared with a post
World War II high of 75.35 in October. The currency’s strength
is hurting exporters such as  Sony Corp. (6758) , which has more than
doubled its annual loss forecast to 220 billion yen. The Nikkei
225 Stock Average closed 0.6 percent higher.  Lawmakers’ Complaints  Lawmakers renewed criticism of the BOJ after the
announcement, with Kozo Yamamoto, of the Liberal  Democratic
Party , saying the 1 percent target was “too low” and not a
substantial change from existing policy. Takeshi Miyazaki, a
ruling Democratic Party of Japan lawmaker, said the central
bank’s approach seemed half-hearted and may give the impression
that Japan tolerates a strong yen.  A group of DPJ lawmakers is seeking a 2 percent to 3
percent inflation target.  “Compared to the ECB’s definition of price stability or
the Fed’s price target, the BOJ’s clarification still seems
vague,” said Junko Nishioka, a Tokyo-based analyst at RBS
Securities Japan Ltd.  Prices haven’t risen at least 1 percent for any year since
1997 and the economy now faces drags ranging from weakness in
global demand to shutdowns of nuclear  power plants  after last
year’s March 11 earthquake and tsunami, which left more than
19,000 people dead or missing.  ‘Bold’ Steps  “We welcome the BOJ’s policy measures, which are
aggressive steps intended to beat deflation,” Finance Minister
 Jun Azumi  said in Tokyo today. “I hope the BOJ’s bold monetary
easing gives a boost to the economy.”  Shirakawa and his colleagues acted three times last year to
expand asset purchases by a total of 15 trillion yen, efforts
that didn’t halt yen gains. Today’s increase in the asset-
purchase facility will fund purchases of more  government bonds ,
the central bank said.  Elsewhere around the world, a report today showed that euro
area industrial production fell 1.1 percent in December from
November.  Sales at U.S. retailers probably rose in January by the
most in four months, led by growing demand for autos, economists
said before a report today. The projected 0.8 percent increase
would follow a 0.1 percent December advance, according to the
median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Shrinking Economy  In Japan, the economy shrank more than analysts forecast in
the fourth quarter, a report showed yesterday. RBS Securities
Japan Ltd. forecasts that gross domestic product will expand 1.6
percent this quarter and JP Morgan Securities has estimated 1.8
percent growth as reconstruction work kicks in.  This week’s BOJ meeting was the first since Economy
Minister Motohisa Furukawa said that the central bank may need
to improve communication of its stance on prices.  The Fed and BOJ have signaled differences over the ability
to control long-run rates of change in prices. Fed policy makers
said last month that “the inflation rate over the longer run is
primarily determined by monetary policy.”  By contrast, Shirakawa has for years indicated that the BOJ
cannot achieve its inflation target on its own. He said at a
business conference Jan. 29, 2010, that lack of demand was the
“root cause of deflation” and there was no “magic wand.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Toru Fujioka in Tokyo at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net ;
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  