-- Barbara Berlusconi Says Family Committed to AC Milan Soccer in Interview
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-02-14T02:01:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/barbara-berlusconi-says-family-committed-to-ac-milan-soccer-in-interview.html
Italy ’s Berlusconi family is “still
committed” to  AC Milan SpA , and former Prime Minister  Silvio Berlusconi  may return as chairman of the seven-time European
champion soccer club, his daughter Barbara said in an interview.  Barbara Berlusconi was appointed to the AC Milan board in
April. The 27-year-old, who has a degree in philosophy, also
sits on the board of  Fininvest  SpA, the family’s investment
company. Beside AC Milan, Fininvest owns stakes in publisher
 Arnoldo Mondadori Editore SpA (MN) , broadcaster  Mediaset SpA (MS)  and
financial-services company  Mediolanum SpA. (MED)   AC Milan, which Silvio Berlusconi bought in 1986, captured
its 18th Serie A league title in the 2010-2011 season. AC Milan
leads Italy’s top division by two points this season over
 Juventus Football Club SpA (JUVE) , which has played two fewer matches.  She responded to questions from Bloomberg News by e-mail.  Q: You joined AC Milan’s board about a year ago. How should we
interpret your move?
A: To reaffirm and strengthen the tie between the team and the
family, which still wants to get fans excited and look at the
future.  Q: So the Berlusconi family, after 25 years of successes, is
still committed to soccer?
A: For sure. The family has invested significantly in AC Milan
and those who think it’s just a luxury toy for us haven’t
understood how soccer has changed today. Soccer has also become
a business, not just a sport passion. Either you change or there
is the risk of not being able to face the new challenges.  Q: What would your father’s return as AC Milan chairman mean?
A: His return would be fundamental to give the team a new
impetus.  Q: Soccer is not only a passion but also a significant cost for
the family. Are you worried about financial Fair Play or do you
see it as an opportunity?
A: Financial Fair Play forces teams to change their approach
compared to the past. Soccer teams will have to transform into
proper companies. The effort will have to go beyond the sport
phase.  Q: So what’s your view on financial Fair Play?
A: It’s pointless to talk about whether it’s right or wrong now.
Its objective is that teams have to plan for their needs based
on their revenue, making them more accountable in the medium and
long term. The financial Fair Play has the shortcoming that it’s
too focused on controlling the income statement rather than the
 cash flow , which I think is more important. Soccer teams have
for too many years lived behind the more basic economic and
financial rules. They have to take this into account.  Q: How can teams do that?
A: If you can only spend what you get, then you have to keep
costs in check and increase revenue. It’s a challenge that can
become an opportunity.  Q: How is the soccer of the future going to be?
A: The model of this sport in the future will inevitably be a
mix of field wins, and commercial and financial results. Abroad
sports managers, who also come from other industries, are
appreciated whereas in Italy they’re undervalued. In the future,
also because of financial Fair Play, teams with the best results
on the field will also be those with an efficient commercial
structure.  Q: Is Italian soccer in crisis today?
A: No, but Italian soccer is growing less than in other
countries. In 2000, Serie A revenue was 1 billion euros and
today it’s 1.5 billion euros. In the same period it has more
than doubled in the U.K. But Italian soccer has strong brands
and it can still attract money and interests. But it needs a
long-term vision. Teams need to get the right structure and
implement a strategy that goes beyond the Sunday to Sunday
business.  Q: How do you see AC Milan in the future?
A: A winning team that can also become an entertainment company.
We need a squad with an excellent technical level and focus on
players, an efficient cost structure, with higher and more
diversified sources of revenue.  Q: What’s your relationship with Chief Executive Officer  Adriano Galliani ?
A: At AC Milan I’m learning and I have the opportunity to get to
know this world helped by people whom, like Galliani, have made
the history of Italian soccer.  Q: Soccer is usually regarded as a male environment: Why you and
not your brothers Pier Silvio or Luigi?
A: Since when I was a kid I’ve always been a big fan of AC
Milan. And because sport management is a sector that I’m keen on
and stimulates me.  Q: Is soccer a chauvinist world?
A: Yes, it is. But it’s changing. Teams are structuring
themselves like any other business and in all companies the role
of competent and skilled women is increasingly important. Soccer
won’t be an exception.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Liefgreen at 
 dliefgreen@bloomberg.net  