-- Barclays Competes With BlackRock for $9.3 Billion of Mexican Pension Funds
-- B y   C a r l o s   M a n u e l   R o d r i g u e z
-- 2012-02-14T18:57:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/barclays-blackrock-vye-for-up-to-9-3-billion-of-mexican-pension-funds.html
Barclays Plc (BARC) ,  BlackRock Inc. (BLK)  and
 Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  are vying to tap as much as $9.3 billion in
Mexican regulated pension assets that are poised to invest in
commodities following regulatory changes.  Mexican pension funds, the nation’s largest institutional
investors with 1.57 trillion pesos ($123.5 billion) under
management, are allowed from this year to invest as much as 10
percent of assets in commodities. The funds known as Afores,
barred from such investments since the system was privatized in
1997, allocated most of their holdings to Mexican debt markets.  “We’ve seen globally a great deal of interest in this
phase” when pension funds start to invest in commodities,
Philippe J.J. Comer, head of commodity structuring for the
Americas in Barclays, said in an interview from  New York .
Mexico’s pension assets are important for commodity asset
managers because they’re “going to grow quite significantly.”  Afores may hire investment banks to manage funds, according
to regulations  published  Dec. 7. Pension funds may invest from 5
percent to 10 percent of some of their portfolios in commodity-
linked securities and use a larger percentage of assets to buy
stocks, under the revised rules.  ‘Most Eligible Bachelor’  Mexican pension funds have been wooed by firms such as
Barclays, BlackRock and Schroders Plc to manage some of their
assets, said Sergio Mendez, who manages 200 billion pesos as
 money manager  at Afore XXI Banorte.  Spokesmen for Deutsche Bank and Schroders didn’t respond to
requests for comments.  The entry of Mexican pension funds to commodities “make us
the most eligible bachelor” for some investment banks, Xavier de Uriarte, chief executive officer at  Mexico  City-based pension
fund Afore Sura, said in a Feb. 8 interview.  De Uriarte, who oversees 260 billion pesos in assets at
Mexico’s third-biggest pension fund, said Afore Sura created a
team to analyze business proposals from different investment
banks to manage its commodities portfolio.  Mexico’s central bank is expected to publish at “any
moment” a list of allowable commodities for investment, said
Oscar Franco, head of a pension association known as Amafore.  “This is a milestone, a structural change for the
Afores,” Franco said in a Feb. 13 interview. The higher caps
and new investment options should help pension funds to
diversify and boost returns, he said.  ‘Competitive Market’  “Without a doubt, this is a competitive market” and
BlackRock is working with the Afores to find the most
appropriate solutions, Samantha Ricciardi, BlackRock’s director
of business development for Mexico, said in an e-mailed
statement. Commodity investments are one of several assets being
discussed with Mexican pension funds, she said.  Assets managed by the 13 Mexican pension funds more than
doubled in the past 5 years to 1.57 trillion pesos on Dec. 31
from 724 billion in 2006, according to data from the country’s
pension regulator known as Consar.  Pension funds need to rely on outside firms because it’s
almost “impossible to have the required specialized experience
to manage every kind of available instruments linked to
commodities,” De Uriarte said.  -- With assistance from Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City. Editors:
Robin Saponar, Tina Davis  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carlos M. Rodriguez in Mexico City at 
 carlosmr@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net . 