-- BASF Removes Acquisition Strategy Barrier as Cognis Integrated
-- B y   S h e e n a g h   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-14T12:56:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/basf-removes-acquisition-strategy-barrier-as-cognis-integrated.html
BASF SE (BAS) , the world’s largest
chemical manufacturer, may resume bigger acquisitions after
completing the integration of cosmetics-ingredient maker Cognis
that the company had cited as hampering further major purchases.  Cognis’s operations were fully brought into BASF’s by the
end of January and teams working on the project have disbanded,
Ulrich Boettger, global integration manager, said in an internal
newspaper. Chief Executive Officer Kurt Bock has said repeatedly
in the past year that Ludwigshafen, Germany-based BASF’s work to
integrate Cognis would probably forestall a “larger” purchase.  “They have made an acquisition approximately every two
years, so it wouldn’t be surprising if they made another soon,”
said Heiko Feber, an analyst at Bankhaus Lampe KG with a “buy”
recommendation on the stock. “I doubt it will happen
immediately with the current economic environment in  Europe , but
I wouldn’t rule out their becoming active if something
interesting comes along.”  Bock’s predecessor, Juergen Hambrecht, spent more than
18 billion euros ($23.7 billion) on purchases during an eight-
year term that ended when he retired in May 2011. BASF may be
interested in an  acquisition  that adds enzyme technology, Bock
said in November.  BASF bought Monheim, Germany-based Cognis in December 2010
for 3.1 billion euros, and expects the combination to add
290 million euros to earnings before interest and taxes. The
company raised its sales target for the end of the decade by 28
percent on Nov. 29 to 115 billion euros as emerging markets
drive growth.  The manufacturer has generally made “a medium-sized
investment” of 3 billion euros to 5 billion euros every two to
three years, which is “compatible with our financial profile”
and with the capacity to absorb new businesses, Bock said at the
time. BASF hasn’t budgeted for a major purchase, he said.  Jennifer Moore-Braun, a BASF spokeswoman, declined to
comment today beyond referring to Bock’s comments in November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sheenagh Matthews in Frankfurt at 
 smatthews6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  