-- BC Said to Weigh Sale of German Power Transformer Maker SGB
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d
-- 2012-02-14T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/bc-said-to-weigh-sale-of-german-power-transformer-maker-sgb.html
BC Partners Ltd., the British buyout
firm that owns the gym club operator Fitness First Ltd., is
considering a sale of the German power transformer maker SGB-
SMIT Group after receiving approaches, three people with
knowledge of the talks said.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  is helping the buyout firm assess
options for the Regensburg-based company, said the people, who
declined to be identified because the talks are private. No
decision regarding the process has been made, they said.  A sale could attract interest from strategic bidders such
as ABB Ltd. of  Switzerland  and  Toshiba Corp. (6502)  of  Japan , as well
as other private equity firms, two of the people said. The
company may fetch between 800 million euros ($1 billion) and 1
billion euros, the people said.  BC Partners, which is raising a 6.5 billion euro buyout
fund, bought SGB for an undisclosed amount in 2008, financing
the acquisition mainly with its own cash, according to the
company’s  website . The seller at the time, turnaround specialist
HCP Capital Group GmbH, had bought the company from the German
utility RWE AG in 2004.  SGB, which makes oil distribution transformers as well as
compact transformer stations, had revenue of about 580 million
euros in 2010 and forecast a 5 percent decline for last year,
followed by an increase this year, according to a company filing
on Feb. 8. The company swung to a 13.1 million euro profit in
2010 from a loss in 2009. Its earnings before interest, taxes,
depreciation and amortization are about 120 million euros, one
of the people said.  Spokesmen for  BC Partners , SGB, Goldman Sachs and ABB
declined to comment. A spokeswoman for Toshiba was not
immediately available for comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in London at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jacqueline Simmons at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net  