-- Bear Stearns, Deutsche Bank, Apple, Transocean in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-02-14T11:50:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/bear-stearns-deutsche-bank-apple-transocean-in-court-news.html
Former  Bear Stearns Cos. (2942331Q)  hedge-fund
managers  Ralph Cioffi  and  Matthew Tannin , acquitted in 2009 of
criminal charges they misled investors, agreed to pay $1.05
million to settle a related civil case brought by the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Cioffi agreed to pay $800,000 and accept a three-year ban
from the securities industry and Tannin agreed to a two-year ban
and $250,000 payment, SEC attorney John Worland told U.S.
District Judge Frederic Block in Brooklyn,  New York , in a
hearing yesterday.  In November 2009, a federal jury found Cioffi and Tannin
not guilty of conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in the
first criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the
collapse of the subprime-mortgage market. Cioffi, 56, was
portfolio manager for the hedge funds. Tannin, 50, was their
chief operating officer. The government said investors lost $1.6
billion.  “This case is being settled for, relatively speaking,
chump change,” Block said at the hearing, adding that he was
“inclined to sign off on it.” He asked lawyers for both sides
to file more papers by next week.  The SEC’s lawsuit, alleging the two men misled investors
about the funds’ deepening financial troubles and their own
holdings in the investment pools, was set to go to trial
yesterday.  After the hearing, Cioffi’s lawyer, Edward Little of Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP, and Tannin’s lawyer, Nina Beattie of Brune &
Richard LLP, declined to comment on the case. Cioffi and Tannin
weren’t in court yesterday.  Cioffi’s payment includes having to give up $700,000 in
illegal gains and pay a $100,000 penalty. Tannin’s includes
disgorgement of $200,000 and a $50,000 penalty.  “On behalf of the SEC, I think this is a very good
settlement,” Worland told the judge.  “These serious sanctions reflect the defendants’
misconduct, their ill-gotten gains and other considerations,
which we will set forth in the written submissions requested by
the court,”  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, said in an e-mailed
comment.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Cioffi, 08-cv-2457, and the criminal case is U.S. v. Cioffi, 08-
CR-00415, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  For more, click here.  Deutsche Bank Said to Settle Kirch Case for About $1 Billion  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK)  and the heirs of media entrepreneur  Leo
Kirch  are close to settling a 10-year-old dispute for about 800
million euros ($1 billion), according to a person with direct
knowledge of the negotiations.  The settlement will end lawsuits over whether comments made
in 2002 by  Rolf Breuer , Deutsche Bank’s then-chief executive
officer, caused the collapse of Kirch’s media group, according
to the person, who declined to be identified because the
agreement hasn’t been made public. The bank last year was said
to have rejected a 775 million-euro settlement proposed by a
Munich court.  “The case meant negative headlines for Deutsche Bank. It
wasn’t so much of a business problem as a reputational one for
the company,” said Michael Seufert, an analyst with
Norddeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale in Hanover who recommends
investors hold the stock. “It is advantageous for Deutsche Bank
to have this long-lasting legal process behind them.”  Kirch, who died in July, pursued lawsuits against Breuer
and Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank seeking at least 3.3 billion
euros. The lawsuits, which continued after Kirch’s death, claim
his media group failed because Breuer questioned its
creditworthiness in a 2002 Bloomberg TV interview.  In the interview, Breuer said “everything that you can
read and hear” is that “the financial sector isn’t prepared to
provide further” loans or equity to Kirch. Within months,
Kirch’s group filed the country’s biggest bankruptcy since World
War II.  Another person familiar with the talks said that Deutsche
Bank’s management board would discuss the potential settlement
yesterday or today. Details of the agreement aren’t finalized
and there may still be obstacles in that process, the person
said.  Deutsche Bank spokesman Christian Streckert and a spokesman
for Kirch both declined to comment. The bank has always denied
Kirch’s allegations.  For more, click here.  Italian Asbestos Trial Conviction ‘Historic,’ Minister Says  A court ruling sentencing Eternit AG’s former owner and
also the company’s biggest shareholder to 16 years in prison in
connection with asbestos-related deaths is “historic,” Italy’s
health minister said.  “The ruling can be defined as truly historic as far as
both the social aspects and the legal aspects are concerned,”
Renato Balduzzi said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “The
fight against asbestos cannot end with a ruling, although a
model one, but has to continue.”  A court in Turin, in northern Italy, ruled yesterday that
Swiss billionaire Stephan Schmidheiny and Jean-Louis Marie
Ghislain de Cartier, respectively Eternit’s former owner and its
top shareholder, were partially responsible for hundreds of
deaths and illnesses caused by asbestos in factories the company
owned in Italy. The two men were also sentenced to pay damages
to be determined in a separate civil proceeding to victims’
relatives and to a number of local authorities.  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  New Suits  Apple Adds Patent Infringement Claims Against Samsung With Suit  Apple Inc.’s newest lawsuit against  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , set for a hearing May 2, increases the number of Samsung
devices that Apple argues infringe its products.  Apple seeks a court order blocking the alleged infringement
in smartphones such as Samsung’s Galaxy S II Skyrocket and
Galaxy S II Epic 4G Touch, which use  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system, and Samsung’s Galaxy 4.0 and 5.0 media
players.  In December, Apple lost a similar request for a court order
blocking sales of Samsung’s 4G smartphone and Galaxy Tab 10.1
tablet computer. Trial for that case is set for July 30.  “Despite that lawsuit, Samsung has continued to flood the
market with copycat products, including at least 18 new
infringing products released over the last eight months,”
according to the complaint filed Feb. 8 in federal court in San
Jose, California.  “Samsung has systematically copied Apple’s innovative
technology and products, features, and designs, and has deluged
markets with infringing devices in an effort to usurp market
share from Apple,” according to the complaint.  Samsung’s newer products infringe patents at issue on the
previous case as well as additional patents Apple issued since
the earlier case was filed, Apple said. “Apple is filing this
suit to put an end to Samsung’s continued infringement,”
according to the complaint.  Samsung continues to “assert our intellectual property
rights and defend against Apple’s claims,” its Seoul-based
spokesman Nam Ki Yung said yesterday.  The two companies have filed at least 30 lawsuits against
each other, according to Samsung. The conflict began in April,
when Apple filed the first San Jose lawsuit claiming the Suwon,
South Korean company’s Galaxy devices copied the iPhone and
iPad.  The case is  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd., 12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The previous case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Wells Fargo Board Must Face Foreclosure Claims, Judge Says  Wells Fargo & Co.  directors must face investors’ claims
that largest U.S. mortgage lender failed to properly disclose
details of its foreclosure practices to government
investigators, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in  San Francisco  rejected
Wells Fargo’s request to dismiss shareholders’ allegations that
directors wrongfully failed to disclose their opposition to a
government probe of the bank’s mortgage lending and foreclosure
policies.  “The fact that the company was allegedly stymieing the
government regulators is certainly material to stockholders when
considering whether to authorize a more serious internal
investigation,” Illston said in Feb. 9 ruling.  That same day, Wells Fargo and four other banks reached a
$25 billion settlement with state and federal officials to end a
probe of abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the
collapse of the U.S. housing bubble.  The accord included $20 billion in various forms of
mortgage relief plus payments of $5 billion to state and federal
governments. Wells Fargo officials said the bank’s share of the
accord would total $5.3 billion. Other banks involved in the
settlement included  JP Morgan Chase & Co .,  Bank of America Corp 
and Ally Financial Inc.  Ancel Martinez, a spokesman for San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo, declined to comment yesterday on Illston’s ruling in the
investor suit.  Even after agreeing to resolve the government’s
investigation into banks’ handling of foreclosures, which
included “robo-signing” of mortgage documents, lenders still
face years of litigation and billions of dollars in liability
over their practices.  The case is Pirelli Armstrong Tire Corporation Retiree
Medical Trust v. John G. Stumpf, C 11-2369-SI, U.S. District
Court, Northern District of California (San Francisco).  For more, click here.  BP Loses Bid to Dismiss Investor Claims Spurred by Spill  BP Plc (BP)  lost a court bid to dismiss fraud claims by
investors who said the company lied before and after the 2010
Gulf of Mexico oil spill about its accident response capability.  U.S. District Judge Keith P. Ellison in Houston yesterday
allowed holders of BP American  depositary receipts  to pursue
claims alleging violations of U.S. securities law. He dismissed
claims by investors who bought ordinary shares of London-based
BP, saying his court has no jurisdiction over them.  The judge rejected the investors’ claim that BP lied about
its commitment to safety, while finding the company may have
exaggerated its ability to respond to a major spill.  “Plaintiffs have sufficiently pleaded facts to demonstrate
that BP misrepresented the size of the spill it was prepared to
respond to in the Gulf and misrepresented the company’s general
spill response capabilities,” Ellison said in a 129-page
decision. “They have sufficiently pleaded actionable
misrepresentations related to BP’s ability to respond to an oil
spill in the Gulf of Mexico.”  The  investors , led by Ohio and New York pension plans, said
BP publicly declared a commitment to safety while cutting
budgets and personnel and rejecting internal complaints. BP also
initially hid the true size of the oil-well blowout to limit the
impact on its stock price, the investors alleged.  “Today’s decision is a victory for the plaintiffs and I am
grateful that we will be able to move forward with our claims
against BP,” New York State Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli said
in an e-mail. “We believe that BP exaggerated its ability to
prevent a catastrophic spill as well as its ability to respond
to one should it occur”  Scott Dean , BP spokesman, declined to comment on the
ruling.  The case is In re  BP Plc (BP/)  Securities Litigation, 4:10-
md-2185, U.S. District Court, Southern District of Texas
(Houston).  For more, click here.  Transocean Asks Judge to Force BP Manager to Testify in Trial  Transocean Ltd. (RIG) , owner of the rig that exploded before the
worst offshore oil spill in U.S. history in 2010, sought to
force a BP Plc manager to explain what occurred at the well
prior to the blowout.  Transocean asked the U.S. District Court in New Orleans to
compel  Donald Vidrine  to testify. He was BP’s well site leader
on the Deepwater Horizon rig when the Macondo well in the Gulf
of Mexico exploded. Vidrine has cited medical-related problems
for refusing to testify, in person or in writing, Transocean’s
lawyers said in a court filing Feb. 12.  Vidrine “is a key source of information regarding critical
events and operations that occurred immediately prior to the
blowout,” Transocean said. “Mr. Vidrine’s medical issues do
not provide a legal basis for his refusal to testify.”  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and explosion killed 11
workers. The accident spurred hundreds of lawsuits against BP
and its partners, including Switzerland-based Transocean,
 Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which provided cementing services for the
project, and  Anadarko (APC) , the owner of 25 percent of the well.  The case is In re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana (New Orleans).  Avon Said to Be Focus of U.S. Grand Jury Investigation  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  is the subject of a U.S. grand jury
investigation into whether ex-employees in  China  paid bribes to
officials in violation of U.S. anti-corruption laws, according
to a person familiar with the matter.  Jennifer Vargas, a spokeswoman for New York-based Avon, the
world’s largest door-to-door cosmetics merchant, declined to
comment on the probe by the Manhattan grand jury.  In regulatory filings last year, Avon said it had fired
four executives suspected of paying bribes to officials in
China. The company also disclosed an internal investigation into
its compliance with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The
ex-executives included the general manager and finance chief of
the China unit, which generates 2 percent of Avon’s revenue.  The internal probe is focused on entertainment and gift
expenses “in connection with our business dealings, directly or
indirectly, with foreign governments,” according to one of its
 filings .  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission is also
investigating, Avon said in October.  The U.S. probe disclosed by the person, who declined to be
identified because the matter isn’t public, was reported earlier
by the Wall Street Journal.  An internal Avon audit found several hundred thousand
dollars in questionable payments to Chinese officials and third-
party consultants in 2005, the newspaper reported.  Avon executives who saw the audit report didn’t disclose
the findings to board audit or finance committees or the full
board, the newspaper said.  Jerika Richardson, a spokeswoman for Manhattan U.S.
Attorney  Preet Bharara , declined to comment.  For more, click here.  Deripaska Claims Cherney Bribed Politicians in London Lawsuit  United Co.  Rusal (486)  Chief Executive Officer Oleg Deripaska
accused  Michael Cherney , who is suing him for $4.3 billion, of
making mysterious payments to politicians including Israel
Deputy Prime Minister Avigdor Liberman.  The claims emerged at a  London  court hearing where
Cherney’s lawyer said accusations made by Deripaska’s legal team
were a “distraction.” The hearing indicates Deripaska, 44,
will fight Cherney’s suit by painting him as someone who used
his connections to extract protection payments from businessmen.  Claims that Cherney made “large, unexplained payments to
politicians” including Liberman and a Bulgarian prime minister
“don’t have any relationship to the facts of the case,” his
attorney, Mark Howard said.  Cherney, now living in exile in Israel, filed a London
lawsuit in 2006 claiming he was Deripaska’s partner and is owed
a stake in Rusal. The trial, scheduled to begin in April,
follows the three-month, $6.8 billion courtroom battle between
Russian oligarchs Boris Berezovsky and Roman Abramovich.  “They say Mr. Cherney was the mastermind of the imposition
of krysha payments,” on businessmen, Howard said, referring to
a Russian word for protection. Cherney’s lawyers were seeking to
prevent some of the claims being used in the trial.  Calls and e-mails to Liberman’s office weren’t returned.
Deripaska’s spokeswoman, Idil Oyman in London, declined to
immediately comment.  Judge Andrew Smith said the April trial may be delayed
until the parties were better prepared.  The case is Cherney v. Deripaska, High Court of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, Commercial Court 06-1218.  U.K. Files Extra Lawsuit Against ECB on Central Clearing Rules  The U.K. filed an additional lawsuit against the  European
Central Bank  over its plans to block trades in some euro-
denominated securities from being cleared outside of the 17
countries that share the currency.  U.K. authorities submitted a second case against the ECB at
the European Union’s General Court in Luxembourg on Jan. 27,
according to the court’s website.  The move follows an earlier complaint by the U.K. filed in
October. The new action concerns comments made by the ECB since
the original case was registered, according to the tribunal’s
press service.  The Frankfurt-based ECB declined to comment on the latest
lawsuit.  The case is T-45/12 pending case, United Kingdom v. ECB.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Stanford ‘Screaming’ About Bank Run Before Seizure, Aide Says  R. Allen Stanford ordered his communications chief to send
investors reassuring letters and to rebut news articles that
sparked a run on his bank two days before it was seized by
regulators, a former aide said.  “He was screaming and saying people were taking their
money out of the bank, and the bank was in trouble because of
that,” Lula Rodriguez, Stanford’s former communications chief,
told jurors in the financier’s $7 billion fraud trial in federal
court in Houston. “It was like a perfect storm was coming
together.”  Rodriguez, 63, testified that a day later she couldn’t find
any senior company officers willing to sign the requested
communications, which stated that Stanford International Bank
Ltd. “remained a strong institution.” After Stanford’s finance
chief, compliance officer and general counsel all refused to
sign the drafts, she tracked Stanford down at his suite at the
InterContinental hotel in Miami, she said.  “He told me people were trying to destroy him, but that
things were going to be OK,” Rodriguez, who worked in Miami,
recalled. “ We just needed to get over the hump.”  Rodriguez, who has said she had no knowledge of the alleged
fraud scheme, testified that the company’s finance chief, James
M. Davis, who has since pleaded guilty to helping Stanford
defraud investors, was at the hotel in a meeting with Stanford.  Also present were the company’s general counsel and
Stanford’s fiancé, Andrea Stoelker, with the couple’s dog. Davis
“looked like death warmed over” and spoke “not a word”
during the meeting, Rodriguez told jurors. The dog, Ras, named
for the financier’s initials, “was the happiest thing in the
room,” she said.  Prosecutors accuse Stanford, 61, of secretly borrowing $2
billion from his Antigua-based Stanford International Bank to
fund a lavish lifestyle and invest in scores of speculative
ventures ranging from Caribbean airlines and real estate
developments to cricket tournaments. Holders of certificates of
deposit in Stanford’s bank were told their money was in safe,
liquid investments.  Stanford, who has been in custody as a flight risk since
his June 2009 indictment, denies all wrongdoing. If convicted of
the most serious charges against him, he could spend as long as
20 years in prison.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09cr342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09cv298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas (Dallas).  Chaoda Chairman Denies Revealing Price Sensitive Information  Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings Ltd. (682)  Chairman Kwok Ho, a
subject in a Hong Kong insider-trading probe, denied discussing
an imminent share offering on conference calls with U.S.-based
investors in 2009.  “Certainly, certainly not,” Kwok told Hong Kong’s  Market
Misconduct Tribunal  yesterday in response to a question about
whether he said on the calls that the Chinese vegetable supplier
would “soon” do a placement. He also denied that he wanted to
assess investor support for a share sale on the calls.  The tribunal is investigating whether material, non-public
information was improperly disclosed on phone calls involving
Kwok, Chaoda’s chief financial officer Andy Chan and U.S.
institutional investors in 2009. George Stairs, then a portfolio
manager at Fidelity Management & Research Co., took part in one
of those calls and sold some of his Chaoda holdings ahead of the
sale, according to Hong Kong’s government.  Stairs believed the share placement information he was
given by Chaoda’s chairman and chief financial officer was
public, according to a letter from Fidelity’s lawyers presented
in evidence to the tribunal.  Stairs and Chan have denied any wrongdoing.  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in Brooklyn, New York, at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 