-- Berkshire Adds DirectTV, Liberty Media
-- B y   N o a h   B u h a y a r
-- 2012-02-21T13:11:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/berkshire-adds-directtv-liberty-media-stakes.html
(Corrects spelling of DirecTV in headline of story
published on Feb. 14.)  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A)  boosted its
stake in DirecTV and added holdings of Liberty Media Corp. and
DaVita Inc. after billionaire  Warren Buffett  hired stock picker
Ted Weschler to help manage investments.  Weschler oversaw investments in all three firms while
running Peninsula Capital Advisors LLC, the hedge fund he wound
down after agreeing to join Omaha, Nebraska-based Berkshire.  Buffett, 81, hired Todd Combs and Weschler to help him pick
stocks as he bets the safest and most profitable way to invest
is by buying whole companies or their equity. The billionaire
investor  drew down  Berkshire’s cash hoard last year to buy
engine-additives maker Lubrizol Corp., a preferred stake in  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC)  and common shares of  International Business
Machines Corp. (IBM) , leaving his firm with about  $34.8 billion  in
cash at the end of September.  “He would like to get that down to closer to $20
billion,” said  David Kass , a professor at the University of
 Maryland ’s Robert H. Smith School of Business, in an interview
before the filing was released. “Berkshire itself is generating
free cash flow of about a billion a month,” which may fund
stock picks, he said.  Buffett has said he’ll focus on managing Berkshire’s
largest stockholdings, such as a stake in  Wells Fargo & Co. (WFC) , and
count on Combs and Weschler to make smaller investments. Combs,
41, who joined Buffett’s firm in 2010, last year added holdings
in companies such as  MasterCard Inc. (MA) , the world’s second-biggest
payments network,  Intel Corp ., and Dollar General Corp.
Berkshire said in September that Weschler, 50, would join the
company this year.  Exxon Mobil  Berkshire reported no holding of Exxon Mobil Corp., the
world’s largest energy company, compared with about 420,000
shares of the company at the end of September.  Berkshire had 1.7 million shares of Liberty Media and 2.7
million shares of dialysis-facility owner DaVita. Liberty Media
closed at $85.59 in New York trading today, and DaVita at
$84.75. The filing was released after 4 p.m. in New York.  The stake in DirecTV climbed to 20.3 million shares from
about 4.2 million at the end of September. DirecTV closed at
$45.85 today.  According to a separate filing, Berkshire held about 410
million shares, or 7.7 percent, of San Francisco-based Wells
Fargo. Buffett reported a stake of about 359 million shares of
the lender at the end of 2010, according to his annual report to
shareholders for that year.  ‘First Class’  Wells Fargo, the largest U.S. home lender, posted  record
fourth-quarter profit  of $4.11 billion last month and beat
analysts’ estimates as mortgage financing improved.  Berkshire’s filings are monitored by analysts and investors
for insight into Buffett’s strategy. The firm seeks to
“increase its ownership of first-class businesses” with a
preference for buying them outright, Buffett said in an article
posted on Fortune magazine’s  website  last week. When a company
can’t be purchased, Berkshire seeks to buy equity stakes, he
said.  Buffett contrasted this approach with investments in gold
or U.S. Treasuries. Bonds are subject to inflation risk which
can erode value over the long run, while making money from  gold 
relies on an expanding pool of “fearful” buyers, he wrote.
Investments in companies face fewer limitations, he said.  “Over any extended period of time this category of
investing will prove to be the runaway winner among the three
we’ve examined,” Buffett wrote. “More important, it will be by
far the safest.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  climbed 11 percent  in the
fourth quarter and 7.4 percent since the end of last year.
Berkshire increased its pace of investing in the third quarter
of last year when stock markets plunged following S&P’s decision
to cut the U.S. top credit rating.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Noah Buhayar in  New York  at 
 Nbuhayar@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  