-- Big East Conference Expels West Virginia in Mountaineers’ Move to Big 12
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m
-- 2012-02-14T16:21:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/big-east-conference-expels-west-virginia-in-mountaineers-move-to-big-12.html
The  Big East  Conference expelled
 West Virginia University , clearing the way for the Mountaineers
to move to the Big 12 beginning with the 2012 college football
season.  The move is part of a settlement of a lawsuit that West
Virginia filed against the conference to get out of a required
27-month waiting period to exit. The Big East said it will
receive a payment “well in excess” of the $5 million required
by the conference’s bylaws, according to an e-mail press
release. No specific figure was given, although the Charleston,
West Virginia,  Daily Mail  reported that the payment was $20
million.  West Virginia announced in October that it would switch
conferences, part of a widespread shuffle at the top of college
sports as leagues and schools lined up bigger television deals.  The Big East, which had just lost Syracuse and Pittsburgh
to the Atlantic Coast Conference, responded by saying it would
hold the Mountaineers to their contract’s exit clause. The Big
East today allowed the school to leave earlier.  “ West Virginia University  has acknowledged and agreed that
the court in Monongalia County, West Virginia, will enter a
judgment that the Big East Conference bylaws are valid and
enforceable, and will dismiss with prejudice all of West
Virginia’s claims against the conference,” Big East
Commissioner John Marinatto said in the release.  The Mountaineers will begin full membership in the Irving,
Texas-based Big 12 starting in July, Athletic Director Oliver Luck said on the school’s website. He said no taxpayer funds,
tuition or academic-support money will be used to pay the
settlement.  “Our membership in the Big 12 offers WVU significant
advantages,” Luck said. “We look forward to the potential
academic and athletic partnerships and financial opportunities
that membership in the Big 12 offers.”  Memphis Welcomed  The expulsion comes one week after the Providence, Rhode
Island-based Big East welcomed the  University of Memphis  for all
sports starting with the 2013 academic year. The addition of the
Tigers, which moves the league’s football total to 12 schools
eventually, allows the Big East to reach more than 31 million
homes, almost 28 percent of all U.S. television households,
 according to its website .  The Big 12 has produced 42 NCAA team national titles and
492 individual champions since its formation in 1996, according
to its website. Last year it lost  Colorado  to the Pac-12 and
 Nebraska  to the Big Ten.  In football, Big 12 schools have appeared in seven Bowl
Championship Series national title games. The Southeastern
Conference is first with nine teams in title games. Baylor
quarterback Robert Griffin III in December won the Heisman
Trophy, awarded annually to college football’s best player.  Fox Sports Contract  In 2011 the conference signed a 13-year contract with  News
Corp.’s (NWSA)  Fox Sports worth about $90 million a year, according to
the  Associated Press . It also has a deal with  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
ESPN and ABC that pays roughly $65 million a year through the
2015 season.  West Virginia’s decision last year came in the midst of
major conference realignment in college athletics. Syracuse and
Pittsburgh left the Big East for the ACC, and  Texas A&M  bolted
the Big 12 for the  Southeastern Conference , followed closely by
Missouri. The Big East also lost out on Texas Christian, which
originally announced its intentions to join the league before
moving to the Big 12 instead.  West Virginia president Jim Clements called the school’s
move “an investment in WVU’s future.”  “We are in great company in the Big 12, joining a group of
world-class research universities -- many of them large public
land-grant flagship institutions like WVU,” Clements said on
the Mountaineers website. “These schools have quality
academics, research, athletic programs, winning traditions and
loyal, passionate fans.”  Florida State Canceled  The Mountaineers canceled their Sept. 8 football game
against Florida State, the road leg of a home-and-home series, a
move that appeared to be aimed at clearing its schedule for a
larger slate of conference games in the Big 12, according to the
 Charleston Gazette .  West Virginia  will pay the Seminoles a
$500,000 buyout should the Tallahassee school be unable to
replace the Mountaineers with a comparable opponent, the
newspaper said.  The West Virginia football team was 10-3 last season and
finished No. 17 in the final AP poll, its seventh year-end top-
25 ranking since 2001. The Mountaineers were 166-88-2 in their
21 years in the Big East, 92-50-1 in league play, with at least
a share of seven conference titles.  Before its addition of  Memphis , the Big East added Navy,
Boise State and San Diego State for football, as well as
Southern Methodist,  Central Florida  and Houston for all sports.
The Midshipmen will join the league in 2015, bringing the
conference’s football membership to 12.  The Big East’s current TV deals run through the 2013
football season, according to ESPN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  