-- BM&FBovespa Quarterly Profit Misses Forecasts on Low Trading
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i   a n d   F a b i o l a   M o u r a
-- 2012-02-15T02:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/bm-fbovespa-profit-misses-forecast-on-low-trading-volume-1-.html
BM&FBovespa SA (BVMF3) , the operator of
 Latin America ’s biggest securities exchange, said fourth-quarter
profit fell short of forecasts on higher expenses combined with
a drop in trading volumes.  Net income fell 27 percent to 191 million reais ($110
million), down from 261.5 million reais a year earlier, Sao
Paulo-based BM&FBovespa said in a regulatory filing yesterday.
Adjusted net income was 352.7 million reais, below the average
 estimate  of 377.3 million reais from nine analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  The exchange’s expenses increased 55 percent to 291.6
million reais. Revenue was 471.2 million reais in the fourth
quarter, compared with 473.3 million reais in the same period a
year before, according to the statement.  Bovespa’s average daily trade volume fell 5.5 percent in
the quarter compared with the same period last year, while
BM&F’s average daily contract value fell 6.1 percent, according
to the statement.  The exchange’s operating figures were “uninspiring” as
both cash equity and derivative volumes shrank, Itau Corretora
de Valores’ analysts including Regina Longo Sanchez wrote in a
note to clients before the earnings were released yesterday.  Brazil  scrapped a tax on foreigners’ equity purchases in
December, two years after it was implemented, to boost
investment in the country’s financial markets.  “The removal of the IOF tax in December was insufficient
to compensate for the lower volatility in the quarter and the
continuation of low market capitalization,” Bradesco
Corretora’s analysts including Carlos Firetti wrote in a note to
clients before earnings were released.  The shares rose 1.2 percent yesterday to 12.31 reais in  Sao
Paulo  trading. They have risen 26 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in Sao Paulo at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net 
Fabiola Moura in New York at 
 fdemoura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulous@bloomberg.net  