-- Brazilian Retail Sales Rise More Than Expected as Consumer-Goods Tax Falls
-- B y   P e t e r   M i l l a r d   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-02-14T13:10:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/brazilian-retail-sales-rise-more-than-expected-in-december.html
Brazilian  retail sales  rose more
than analysts expected in December, adding to evidence that
 Latin America ’s biggest economy rebounded from a contraction in
the third quarter.  Sales volume rose 0.3 percent from November, the national
statistics agency said today in Rio de Janeiro. The median
estimate of 44 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg was for a gain of
0.1 percent. Sales climbed 6.7 percent from a year earlier.  Since August, President Dilma Rousseff’s administration has
reduced  borrowing costs , cut taxes on consumer goods and lifted
curbs on credit to shore up economic growth in the world’s
second biggest emerging market after China. The central bank has
signaled it will reduce the benchmark  interest rate  to less than
10 percent as the government seeks economic growth of 4.5
percent this year.  “Domestic demand is still quite robust, driven by a
positive labor market,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist with
Banco WestLB do Brasil SA, said by telephone from  Sao Paulo .
“This will keep inflation at a high level despite the falling
trend we’re seeing.”  Lower borrowing costs as well as a reduction in the
industrial production tax on select consumer goods also fueled
demand, Rostagno said.  The yield on the interest rate futures contract maturing in
January 2014, the most-traded today, declined three basis
points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 9.67 percent at 10:16 a.m.
in Brasilia. The real gained 0.2 percent 1.7137 per dollar.  Rate Outlook  Traders are wagering that the central bank will cut its
benchmark interest rate for a fifth straight meeting next month,
to 10 percent, according to Bloomberg estimates based on
interest rate futures yields.  The broader retail index, which includes the sale of cars
and construction materials, increased 1.6 percent in December
from the previous month, the statistics agency said.  Furniture and home appliance sales rose 2.6 percent, and
sales of computer and telecommunications equipment jumped 6.9
percent.  Brazil ’s economy contracted in the third quarter for the
first time in more than two years. In December, the government
cut taxes on white goods including stoves, refrigerators and
energy-efficient home appliances, as well as on some food
staples. Record low unemployment coupled with the government
measures will ensure retail sales will continue to expand this
year,  Jankiel Santos , chief economist at Espirito Santo
Investment Bank, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.  The  unemployment rate  fell to a record low 4.7 percent in
December.  Annual  inflation  slowed for a fourth straight month in
January, to 6.22 percent. The central bank  targets  inflation of
4.5 percent, plus or minus two percentage points.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Peter Millard in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net 
Raymond Colitt at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 