-- Business Inventories Rose Less Than Sales
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-02-14T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/business-inventories-rose-less-than-sales.html
A gain in U.S. business inventories
trailed the improvement in sales in December, showing companies
may continue to restock shelves and warehouses in early 2012.  The 0.4 percent  increase  in stockpiles followed a 0.3
percent advance the prior month, Commerce Department data showed
today in Washington. The  median  projection in a Bloomberg News
survey called for a 0.5 percent rise. Sales climbed 0.7 percent,
the most since July.  Inventory replenishment, which helped the economy grow last
quarter at the fastest pace in more than a year, may extend into
this year as a pickup in hiring boosts purchases. Another report
today showed  retail sales  rose less than forecast in January,
held back by an unexpected drop in demand at auto dealers.  “Inventories are in a pretty good spot right now, where
they’re not too much but also not too little,”  Russell Price ,
senior economist at Ameriprise Financial Inc. in  Detroit , said
before the report. “With employment gains, we can expect an
improvement in demand. Inventory building will remain a support
to the economy and to manufacturing this year.”  The median forecast for business inventories was based on a
Bloomberg survey of 48 economists. Estimates ranged from no
change to an increase of 1.1 percent. The November figure was the
same as previously reported.  Retail Sales  Demand at retailers climbed 0.4 percent in January, half the
0.8 rise projected by median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, other data from the Commerce Department showed
today. Excluding cars, purchases rose 0.7 percent, more than
estimated and the biggest gain since March.  Retailers’ inventories, the only part of today’s report not
previously released, increased 0.2 percent as sales were little
changed.  At the current sales pace, businesses had enough goods on
hand to last 1.26 months, down from 1.27 the prior month and the
least since March.  The economy expanded at a 2.8 percent annual rate in the
fourth quarter after a 1.8 percent pace in the prior three
months, Commerce Department figures showed on Jan. 27. Growth
excluding a jump in inventories was 0.8 percent. Stockpiles were
rebuilt at a $56 billion annual pace, adding 1.9 percentage
points to growth.  Stockpiles were rebuilt last quarter following a reduction
in the July through September period amid mounting concern that
 Europe ’s debt crisis would restrain demand while the U.S. labor
market was struggling to pick up.  More Hiring  Sales may get a boost as hiring improves, creating the need
for companies to further replenish their shelves. Payrolls in
January posted the biggest increase in nine months, and the
 unemployment rate  fell to 8.3 percent, the lowest since February
2009, according to Labor Department data.  Companies that have worked to bring stockpiles in line with
sales include  LeapFrog Enterprises Inc. (LF) , the maker of electronic
educational products for children. Demand through the holiday
season “significantly outstripped supply” and LeapFrog has
“lots of sales momentum,” according to Chief Executive Officer
John Barbour.  “We also ended the year in a dramatically better place in
terms of inventory,” Barbour said on an earnings conference call
on Feb. 9. “Both our inventory and retail inventories were a lot
lower at the end of 2011 than 2010.”  Factory inventories, which comprise about 38 percent of the
total, rose 0.1 percent in December, while wholesale inventories,
which account for up about 30 percent of all business stockpiles,
increased by 1 percent, Commerce Department data showed earlier
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in  Washington  at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  