-- California Rating Outlook Boosted by S&P as State Prepares $2 Billion Sale
-- B y   J a m e s   N a s h   a n d   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/california-s-ratings-outlook-is-revised-to-positive-from-stable-by-s-p.html
California (STOCA1) ’s credit, saddled with a
negative outlook as recently as eight months ago, has been
raised to positive and is poised for a higher rating,  Standard &
Poor’s  said.  The second revision since July comes as the most-populous
state prepares to sell $2 billion in general-obligation bonds.
California’s A- rating, S&P’s fourth-lowest investment grade and
the lowest of any state, was affirmed on $73.4 billion of
general-obligation debt.  California is positioned for a higher grade if revenue
comes closer to projections in Governor  Jerry Brown ’s budget,
S&P said. Brown is promoting a November ballot measure that
would raise income taxes on people who earn more than $250,000,
and increase sales taxes statewide to avoid further cuts to
education.  “Barring any other credit deterioration, we think the
state is poised for credit improvement -- and potentially a
higher rating -- pending its ability to better align its cash
performance and budget assumptions,” said Gabriel Petek, an S&P
analyst, in a statement. “By downsizing its spending base, the
state has corrected a significant portion of its budget
imbalance.”  California  will offer about $2 billion of general-
obligation bonds to refund  debt March 1, the largest sale by
the state since October. The most indebted state will also sell
as much as $1 billion of cash-flow notes Feb. 22.  Lowest Rating  In January 2010, California’s credit rating was cut one
level, with a negative outlook, after a budget stalemate in
August forced the state to issue $2.6 billion of IOUs to pay
some bills. In July 2011, S&P boosted the outlook to stable,
saying passage of Brown’s budget mitigated the potential for a
cash shortage. The state’s rating remains S&P’s fourth-lowest
investment grade and the lowest of any state. Moody’s Investors
Service gives it an A1, the second-lowest after  Illinois .  “The fact that California’s ratings outlook has shifted
from negative to positive in less than a year is a powerful vote
of confidence in our state,” Brown said in a statement.  While the state isn’t at risk of default, S&P’s action
ignores concerns about California’s liquidity, said Richard Larkin, director of credit analysis at Herbert J. Sims & Co. in
Iselin,  New Jersey .  Brown’s budget for the fiscal year starting July 1 assumes
voters will pass tax increases in November, without which the
state would cut $4.8 billion from public schools, the equivalent
of taking three weeks from the academic year.  “S&P’s rating action is either vastly forward-looking or
oblivious to real-time cash-flow problems,” Larkin said by e-
mail.  Below Projections  California collected $528 million less in taxes in January
than Brown estimated in his latest budget, Controller John
Chiang said Feb. 10. Most of the shortfall was in income taxes,
down $525 million, or 6.3 percent less than projected Chiang
said. Corporate taxes were down $127.9 million, while sales
taxes were up $42.8 million.  California’s fiscal situation doesn’t “warrant
consideration of an upgrade until their budget is truly
stabilized,” Larkin said. “I am at a loss as to what prompted
today’s decision.”  The state’s brightening outlook corresponds with the
rebound in the stock market, since the state depends
disproportionately on capital-gains taxes, said Michael Pietronico, who manages $670 million of municipals as chief
executive officer at Miller Tabak Asset Management in  New York .  Possible cash-flow disruptions shouldn’t obscure the
improvement in California’s budgetary picture, he said in a
telephone interview.  “Investors tend to anticipate the state to have short-term
cash-flow needs,” Pietronico said. “Most large states and
municipalities do at some point, and it seems to have been well-
budgeted and forecast so no one was surprised.”  Yield Down  California 10-year general-obligation bonds yielded  85
basis points  more than AAA municipal debt yesterday, compared
with a peak yield spread in the past year of 1.47 percentage
points in June, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. A basis
point is 0.01 percentage point.  State and local debt of California returned a total of 14.8
percent last year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. That’s more than the 11.2 percent for the full $3.7
trillion municipal market, the 9.8 percent for U.S. Treasuries
and the 7.5 percent for investment-grade company debt.  “Whenever  ratings agencies  take positive action,
ultimately it should accrue to the benefits of taxpayers by
constraining borrowing costs,” said  Tom Dresslar , a spokesman
for state Treasurer Bill Lockyer, in a telephone interview.  To contact the reporters on this story:
James Nash in Sacramento at 
 jnash24@bloomberg.net ;
Michael B. Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  