-- Calpers Actuary: Consider Lower Assumed Return
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B .   M a r o i s
-- 2012-02-14T19:32:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/calpers-actuary-proposes-changing-7-75-assumed-rate-of-investment-return.html
California Public Employees’
Retirement System , the largest U.S. public pension, should
consider changing its assumed rate of investment return, its
actuary said. Trimming the forecast may add to taxpayer costs.  The rate, now 7.75 percent, is used to calculate how much
money the $234 billion fund expects to have and how much it
needs to cover benefits promised to workers, as well as the size
of annual contributions by state and local government.  Rising public-employee retiree costs are straining the
budgets of states such as  California  and cities across the U.S.
still coping with  tax revenue  reduced by the longest recession
since the Great Depression. Public funds have come under fire
for using assumptions that hide the true size of shortfalls.  “It could have a very significant impact on employer
contribution rates,” actuary Alan Milligan told the Calpers
governing board in  Sacramento  today. He said he would make more
specific recommendations to the panel in March.  Calpers last year rejected his proposal to reduce the
presumed rate of return to 7.5 percent. Board members at the
time expressed concern that the lower figure would burden local
governments when they were already facing financial strains.  Three-Quarters Covered  The pension fund estimates that it has about 75 percent of
the money it needs to cover promised benefits. That differs from
a Stanford University  report  that said Calpers was only 58
percent funded, based on a 6.2 percent annual return on assets.  The California State Teachers’ Retirement System, the
second-largest U.S. public pension with $133 billion of assets,
agreed Feb. 2 to lower its assumed returns to 7.5 percent from
7.75 percent, the second reduction since 2010.  The teacher’s fund had 71 percent of what it needs to pay
future benefits as of June 30, 2010. The lower rate added $5.9
billion to a $56 billion shortfall projected at the time,
according to Milliman Inc., the fund’s consulting actuary.  At Calpers, volatility in the public markets has caused
wider than expected variations in the fund’s annual returns. In
the fiscal year ended June 30, Calpers earned 20.7 percent, its
best result in 14 years, led by stocks and private equity.  Decline in 2009  Since then, the fund has dropped 4.5 percent. It lost
almost a quarter of its value in 2009 as the global recession
dragged down stock prices and real-estate values.  The fund earned 1.1 percent in the calendar year that ended
Dec. 31 as global stocks, which make up about half of its
assets, dropped about 8 percent in the period. The Standard &
Poor’s 500  Index (SPX)  of U.S. shares had a total return of 2.1
percent last year.  Calpers spreads losses and gains over 15 years to blunt the
impact that annual changes may have on the amount of money the
fund charges taxpayers to finance benefits for more than 1.6
million government retirees and their families.  Through Dec. 31, Calpers earned almost 5.1 percent over a
decade and 7.5 percent the past 20 years, according to a  report 
prepared for the board by  Joe Dear , the system’s investment
chief. That 20-year return will rise to 8.36 percent when
results through June 30, 2011, are included. The fund uses such
fiscal year results in its calculation of employer
contributions.  California’s pensions in 2010 had about 81 percent of what
they needed to pay promised benefits, down from 87 percent in
the preceding year, according to an annual study by Bloomberg
Rankings. The median for all states was 75 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael Marois in Sacramento at 
 mmarois@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net . 