-- Canada Pension to Invest $1.8 Billion in Westfield Shopping-Mall Venture
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-02-14T23:24:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/canada-pension-to-invest-1-8-billion-in-westfield-shopping-mall-venture.html
The Canada  Pension Plan  Investment
Board agreed to pay $1.8 billion for a stake in 10 U.S. shopping
malls and two redevelopment sites owned by  Westfield Group (WDC)  as
part of a joint venture with the Australian landlord.  The Toronto-based  retirement plan  will own a 45 percent
share of the real estate, it said today in a statement. Most of
the malls are in California, including Westfield Horton Plaza in
 San Diego  and Westfield Culver City.  “This is an excellent opportunity to acquire a significant
interest in a portfolio comprising high-quality regional
shopping centers that are well-positioned for long-term
growth,” Graeme Eadie, senior vice president for real estate
investments at the pension plan, said in the statement. “This
acquisition represents our largest real estate investment to
date globally and supports our retail real estate strategy of
investing in dominant regional malls with best-in-class
operators.”  The deal, expected to be completed this quarter, will give
Canada Pension stakes in 26 malls in major U.S. markets.
Increased leasing in the fourth quarter boosted the average
occupancy at properties owned by mall real estate investment
trusts to 91.9 percent, according to Mark Biffert, an analyst
for Bloomberg Industries. Net operating income rose 3 percent.  Westfield, the world’s biggest mall operator, has been
selling stakes in its properties as it seeks global partners,
 Peter Lowy , the Sydney-based company’s co-chief executive
officer, said in the statement. Westfield will remain the
manager and leasing agent for the malls in the joint venture.  Canada Pension Plan Investment Board, the country’s second-
biggest retirement fund, has stakes in shopping malls in
Australia, Brazil,  Germany , the U.K. and the U.S. The fund had
C$152.8 billion ($152.95 billion) of assets as of Dec. 31,
according to Feb. 10 quarterly financial statements.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  