-- Canada’s Currency Rises Versus Most Peers Amid Gains in Oil, U.S. Dollar
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-02-14T22:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/canadian-dollar-strengthens-to-almost-four-month-high-versus-yen.html
Canada ’s dollar gained against all
of its 16 most-traded counterparts as the currency of the
nation’s biggest trade partner, the U.S., climbed and crude oil
reached a three-week high.  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the aquatic bird on the C$1 coin, touched the highest level
since November against the yen. It fluctuated at about parity
with the U.S. dollar, the world’s main reserve currency, which
rose versus all of its peers except the loonie as investors
sought safety. Crude oil, Canada’s biggest export, traded above
$100 a barrel.  “The Canadian dollar is doing better than expected,” said
 Dean Popplewell , head analyst in Toronto at the online currency-
trading firm Oanda Corp. “It still seems like it is a tier-two
reserve currency, and its long association with the  U.S. dollar 
is helping it to hold in relatively well.”  The Canadian currency was little changed at 99.91 cents per
U.S. dollar at 5 p.m. in Toronto after advancing as much 0.2
percent earlier and weakening 0.3 percent. One Canadian dollar
purchases $1.0010.  The loonie climbed as much as 1.3 percent to 78.60 yen, the
strongest level since Nov. 1, before trading at 78.51 yen, up
1.2 percent. The currency gained 0.5 percent against the
Australian dollar and the euro and appreciated 0.3 percent
against  New Zealand ’s dollar.  “The market continues to like the Canadian dollar,” said
 Steve Butler , director of foreign-exchange trading in Toronto at
Bank of  Nova Scotia ’s Scotia Capital unit. “When the U.S.
dollar is strengthening, Canada is doing well.”  Crude Oil  Crude oil  reached $101.84 a barrel in New York, the highest
since Jan. 19, before trading at $100.98, up 0.2 percent. It
fluctuated after analysts in a Bloomberg News survey forecast
U.S. oil supplies climbed last week. The Energy Department
reports the data tomorrow.  Canada’s currency climbed versus the yen after the  Bank of
Japan  unexpectedly increased its stimulus program for the first
time since October. The central bank added 10 trillion yen ($128
billion) to an asset-purchase program under a program known as
quantitative easing. The move brought the program to a total of
30 trillion yen.  “The Canadian dollar is a marginal yet relevant
outperformer,” said  Jack Spitz , managing director of foreign
exchange at  National Bank of Canada  in Toronto. “The biggest
move has been in the yen on the back of the Japanese decision to
add more quantitative easing.”  Bonds Gain  Canadian government bonds rose, pushing the yield on the
benchmark  10-year note  down five basis points, or 0.05
percentage point, to 2.02 percent. It dropped as much as seven
basis points, the biggest intraday decrease this month, The
price of the 3.25 percent securities due in June 2021 gained 45
cents to C$110.39.  Canada will auction C$3.5 billion ($3.5 billion) of five-
year notes tomorrow, according to a statement on the Bank of
Canada’s website. Yields on current five-year securities fell
four basis points today to 1.38 percent.  Government bonds  have lost 0.4 percent since Dec. 31,
compared with a return of 9.6 percent for 2011, according to
Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s Canadian Governments index.  The U.S. dollar rose versus most major currencies as
slower-than-forecast growth in retail sales burnished its refuge
appeal. Sales gained 0.4 percent in January, Commerce Department
data showed, less than the 0.8 percent forecast in a Bloomberg
survey of economists.  Stocks declined, with the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index down
as much as 0.8 percent before paring losses in the last half-
hour of trading on optimism  Greece  will commit to budget cuts.  European Downgrades  The Canadian dollar slipped earlier against the euro as
German investor confidence surged to a 10-month high in
February. The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said its index rose to 5.4 this month from a minus 21.6
in January. The report was issued a day after Moody’s Investors
Service, citing  Europe ’s debt crisis, cut the debt ratings of
six European countries including Italy and  Spain  and said it may
strip  France  and the U.K. of their top ratings.  Euro-area finance ministers canceled a meeting in Brussels
scheduled for tomorrow and will hold a teleconference instead to
prod Greece to do more to clinch a rescue package worth 130
billion euros ($170 billion). Luxembourg Prime Minister Jean-
Claude Juncker, the group’s chairman, said he hadn’t received
the “required political assurances” from Greek leaders that
austerity measures will be implemented.  The loonie rose yesterday against the U.S. currency and
fell the previous day. It hasn’t completed two consecutive days
of gains or losses since Jan. 26.  Market ‘Complacent’  “There’s information that is normally deemed market-moving
facts or data, and the market itself is complacent,” National
Bank’s Spitz said. “Much of it is a wait-and-see approach with
Greece and Europe at large.”  The Canadian dollar has gained 1.7 percent over the past
three months against nine developed-nation counterparts
monitored by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes.
The U.S. dollar fell 0.8 percent, while the euro dropped 4.1
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  