-- Capital One’s $9 Billion Acquisition of ING Direct USA Wins Fed’s Approval
-- B y   D a k i n   C a m p b e l l
-- 2012-02-15T09:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/capital-one-s-9-billion-acquisition-of-ing-direct-usa-wins-fed-s-approval.html
Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ’s
planned purchase of  ING Groep NV (INGA) ’s U.S. online bank won approval
from the  Federal Reserve , clearing the way for the credit-card
lender to add about $80 billion in deposits.  “The board’s action directed Capital One to take specific
steps to ensure that its risk-management functions, including
compliance, are commensurate with its new size and complexity,”
the Fed said yesterday in a statement.  Capital One, led by Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Richard Fairbank, 61, is expanding through acquisitions. The ING
transaction, announced in June, will add more than 7 million
customers. Costs rose 25 percent in the fourth quarter as
Capital One spent more to build out infrastructure and
technology systems, the company said last month.  The bank, which derives more than half its  revenue  from
credit cards, agreed to buy ING Direct USA for $9 billion. The
deal will make McLean, Virginia-based Capital One the fifth-
largest lender by U.S. deposits. The transaction will be
completed within days,  Tatiana Stead , a Capital One spokeswoman,
said in an e-mailed statement.  “The ING deal is going to prove to be one of the
strategically most transformational things that’s ever happened
in this company,” Fairbank said at a Feb. 8 investor conference
in Miami. “It is a very low-cost way for Capital One to become
a national player in banking.”  Shares Climb  Capital One climbed 2.3 percent to $49.06 at 6:36 p.m.
yesterday in extended New York trading. The stock had fallen 2.1
percent since the ING deal was announced on June 16, trailing
the 1.6 percent decline in the 81-company Standard & Poor’s 500
Financial Services Index for the period.  The deal is the first the Fed reviewed under a provision of
the Dodd-Frank Act, which requires the central bank to consider
whether mergers will result in “greater or more concentrated”
risks to the financial system.  Regulators held three hearings to allow public input on the
purchase and extended the comment period amid opposition from
advocates for consumer rights and affordable housing, including
the National Community Reinvestment Coalition.  The NCRC, in a September letter to Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , said that
the ING deal threatens the goals of Dodd-Frank.  ‘Too Big to Fail’  The transaction will create another “too-big-to-fail”
institution and should only be allowed if Capital One implements
a “meaningful plan showing a true commitment to do more for the
public,”  John Taylor , the coalition’s CEO, said at a Sept. 20
hearing in  Washington .  “We’re extremely disappointed in today’s decision,”
Taylor said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The organization
is considering its options to challenge the approval, he said.  Capital One pledged to make $180 billion in new community-
development loans and investments over the next decade,
including $28.5 billion in home lending to borrowers
characterized as low- and moderate-income. The bank also
announced plans to hire thousands of workers.  ING, the biggest Dutch financial-services firm, was ordered
by the European Union to sell the U.S. unit as a condition of
its government bailout during the financial crisis. The
agreement will give ING a seat on Capital One’s board.  ING shares  rose  3 percent to 6.76 euros ($8.91) as of 10:27
a.m. in Amsterdam, extending its gain this year to 19 percent.  “This decision concludes the regulatory approval
process,” Amsterdam-based ING said in a statement.  In August, Capital One agreed to purchase HSBC Holdings
Plc’s U.S. credit-card portfolio. That transaction is set to be
completed in the second quarter.  Morgan Stanley,  Barclays Capital  and Centerview Partners
LLC were financial advisers to Capital One. Wachtell Lipton
Rosen & Katz, Mayer Brown LLP and Loyens & Loeff provided legal
advice.  ING acted as its own financial adviser, along with Deutsche
Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. The Dutch lender’s legal
advisers were Dechert LLP, Sullivan & Cromwell LLP and
NautaDutilh.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dakin Campbell in New York at 
 dcampbell27@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  