-- Carried-Interest Tax Increase Measure Introduced by Levin
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n
-- 2012-02-14T20:45:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/carried-interest-tax-increase-measure-introduced-by-levin-1-.html
Representative  Sander Levin  outlined
a new proposal in his five-year effort to increase the  tax rate 
that private equity managers and other investment executives pay
on their so-called carried interest earnings.  The bill by the Michigan Democrat is similar to a proposal
in President Barack Obama’s fiscal 2013 budget released
yesterday. The administration estimates the change would
generate $13.5 billion in additional taxes over the next decade.  “This loophole for years has unfairly enabled some of the
highest-paid individuals in the country to sharply reduce their
tax bills and it is time to close it once and for all,” said
Levin, the top Democrat on the House Ways and Means Committee,
in a statement.  Republicans object to the tax change, saying it would hurt
economic growth. The House passed Levin’s proposal when
Democrats controlled the chamber. It hasn’t advanced since
Republicans took control of the House after the 2010 election.  Private equity managers are paid management fees and
carried interest, which typically is a 20 percent share of the
profits earned by their funds. The management fees are taxed as
ordinary income, which has a top rate of 35 percent, and carried
interest is considered a capital gain taxed at a top rate of 15
percent.  Romney’s Taxes  The preferential tax treatment of carried interest has
benefited Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney , who
helped found and run Bain Capital LLC. Of the $21.6 million in
income Romney reported receiving in 2010, $7.4 million came from
carried interest, Ben Ginsberg, national counsel for Romney’s
campaign, said Jan. 23 as Romney released his tax returns.
Romney paid an overall 13.9 percent federal tax rate.  Levin said his new proposal would ensure that investment
managers could continue to pay the capital gains rate for
selling their stakes in their own companies.  The private-equity industry has resisted a tax change.  A tax increase “would discourage the risk-taking required
to start, grow and save companies,” Steve Judge, president of
the Private Equity Growth Capital Council, an industry trade
group in  Washington , said in a statement. Such proposals “have
been defeated on a bipartisan basis a number of times over the
last five years, and even with the highly charged election year
rhetoric it is uncertain that such a proposal will gain
traction.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  