-- McDermott to Open Seoul Law Practice Following Trade Agreement
-- B y   I a n   T h o m a s
-- 2012-02-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/mcdermott-to-open-seoul-law-practice-following-trade-agreement.html
McDermott Will & Emery LLP  will open
an office in Seoul as a trade deal allowing U.S. law firms to
practice in  South Korea  increases demand for international
representation by Korean clients, the firm said.  McDermott, which advised  Fila Korea Ltd. (081660)  and  Mirae Asset
Securities Co. (037620)  on the $1.23 billion acquisition of the Acushnet
golf business from  Fortune Brands Inc. (FO)  in May 2011, is on “the
leading edge of what promises to be a wave of new activity in
South  Korea ,” Jeffrey E. Stone, the Chicago-based firm’s co-
chairman, said in a phone interview.  “Due to legal restrictions, there has been little
international law firm presence in South Korea,” Stone said.
“Now when Korean companies become even more competitive
worldwide, it will present opportunities that are powerfully
aligned with many of our strongest practices.”  Stone said transactions, intellectual property and
international trade will be the basis for the firm’s practice in
the region. The  Seoul  office will focus on work that emanates
from Korea, and will cooperate with the firm’s other 1,000
lawyers worldwide, he said.  For matters originating outside Korea, McDermott will work
with local firms and serve as a “referral and cultural resource
for our Western clients,” In-Young Lee, head of the firm’s
Korea practice group, said in a phone interview.  Lee will head the Seoul office, which the firm said it
expects to open in the next few months. Lee will be joined there
by Paul J. Kim, who worked on the Acushnet deal, as well as a
rotation of other McDermott lawyers. The firm will seek hire
additional Korea-based lawyers over the next few months.  Local Alliances  The trade agreement, signed by South Korean lawmakers in
November 2011, allows U.S.-based firms to advise on U.S. and
international trade law and to enter local alliances with South
Korean firms.  Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP  and  Paul
Hastings LLP (1135L)  also have announced plans to open offices in South
Korea following the signing of the pact.  McDermott had revenue of $825.5 million in 2011, a
4.7 percent increase from the previous year,  according  to the
American Lawyer, a trade publication.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ian Thomas in New York at 
 ithomas15@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  