-- Cetip to Open New Platform for Corporate Bond Trading
-- B y   K a r e n   E e u w e n s
-- 2012-02-14T18:59:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/cetip-to-open-new-platform-for-corporate-bond-trading-correct-.html
(Corrects company name in first paragraph.  Cetip (CTIP3)  corrects
timing of new platform in first paragraph.)  Cetip SA - Mercados Organizados ,
Brazil’s biggest securities clearinghouse, plans to open a new
trading platform for local corporate bonds by the end of the
year in a bet that efforts by investors and the government to
develop a secondary market will succeed.  The platform will replace existing CetipNET, said Marcelo Fleury, head of institutional relations, in an interview in
London. Separately, Cetip plans to ask the government to cut
taxes on foreign investment in local corporate bonds, Fleury
said. Foreign investors pay a 15 percent withholding tax on
earnings from the securities, as well as a 6 percent so-called
IOF tax, he said.  A better trading platform and more overseas investment
could help boost volume on the secondary market to as much as 10
percent of 420 billion reais ($243 billion) of Brazilian local
bonds outstanding from less than 1 percent, Fleury said.  “There is no existent secondary market so everyone would
benefit from that and the liquidity that comes with it will
allow for more companies to tap those markets,” Fleury said in
a Feb. 9 interview.  Cetip is working with  Brazil ’s banking association, known
as Febraban, and capital markets association, known as Anbima,
to develop the country’s local bond markets, Fleury said. Anbima
last year proposed regulations to expand trading and reduce
borrowing costs in Brazil’s local corporate debt markets under
the structure of Brazil’s Novo Mercado. These included
broadening the distribution of securities and creating equal tax
benefits for public and private debt.  Separately the government said it’s working on initiatives
to foster the creation of long-term financing sources locally.  Trading Increase  Daily average trading volume of local corporate bonds in
Brazil, the world’s second-largest developing economy, rose to
108.6 million reais in January from 23.8 million reais a year
earlier, according to Anbima. That’s still a fraction of the
$18.1 billion of corporate bonds traded daily in the U.S., which
had $7.7 trillion of corporate bonds outstanding at Sept. 30,
according to the Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, known as  Sifma .  “There is a legacy of buy and hold culture among portfolio
managers” in Brazil, Fleury said. “With foreign investors
coming in you’re definitely going to see more liquidity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Eeuwens in  London  at 
 keeuwens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Telma Marotto at 
 tmarotto1@bloomberg.net  