-- CFTC May Move Enforcement Staff to Dodd-Frank Oversight Roles
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h
-- 2012-02-14T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/cftc-may-move-enforcement-staff-to-dodd-frank-oversight-roles.html
The U.S.  Commodity Futures Trading
Commission  says it will shift enforcement staff to meet Dodd-
Frank Act demands in 2012, after failing last year to adequately
oversee  CME Group Inc. (CME) , the world’s largest futures exchange.  The CFTC didn’t meet its own goals to review CME, the
Chicago Board of Trade, and ICE Futures U.S. in the year ending
Sept. 30, 2011 for compliance with the agency’s core principles
for exchange-traded markets, according to an agency  report  on
its own performance. In a separate  spending plan  for fiscal
2013, the agency said it would reassign staff this year from
enforcement to oversee new applications for registration with
the agency that stem from the Dodd-Frank regulatory overhaul.  “The commission acknowledges that this realignment creates
risks in its critical oversight roles,” the agency said in the
budget and performance plan describing its priorities for 2012.
“The agency’s performance is affected by the challenges of
limited resources,” CFTC Chairman  Gary Gensler  said in the
budget request.  The  Securities and Exchange Commission  and CFTC are leading
U.S. efforts to write new regulations required under the 2010
Dodd-Frank financial-overhaul. The agencies aim this year to
complete rules designed to have most swaps guaranteed by central
clearinghouses and traded on exchanges or other venues.  The CFTC received authority to oversee the bulk of the
swaps market, which was largely unregulated prior to Dodd-Frank
and blamed by congressional lawmakers for fueling the 2008
credit crisis.  MF Global’s Impact  Changes to oversight of the futures market have been
considered by the CFTC since  MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) . collapsed
last year. Gary Gensler, CFTC chairman, has asked the agency’s
staff to develop recommendations for new oversight of the
industry’s self-regulatory organizations and brokers. The review
may include recommendations for changes requiring congressional
action, according to a Jan. 26 letter from Jill E. Sommers, a
Republican commissioner, to Senator  Pat Roberts , a Kansas
Republican.  “If major exchanges are not reviewed annually, it is
difficult to provide any assurance to the public or other
regulators of the exchanges’ ongoing core principle
compliance,” the agency said in the report about its 2011 work.
The CFTC also fell short of its goals for setting up automated
surveillance alerts for the futures market and automating
systems for market data.  Commissioners’ Dissent  “In light of the MF Global insolvency, we must remain
vigilant in our oversight of the  futures markets  for both
systemic and operational risks,” Sommers and  Scott O’Malia , a
Republican commissioner, said in a  dissent  from the CFTC report.
“Unfortunately, resources have been redirected to Dodd-Frank-
related rulemakings and reduce our capacity to appropriately
oversee these markets.”  President  Barack Obama  requested $308 million to fund the
CFTC in fiscal 2013, a 50 percent increase from its current $205
million budget. The CFTC’s budget has been the focus of a debate
between Democrats seeking additional resources to complete Dodd-
Frank rules and Republicans trying to reduce the agency’s
spending as part of a broader effort to rein in deficits.  Congress last year rejected Obama’s request for $308
million to support the current fiscal 2012 budget.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  