-- Chicken Producers Jump on Brazil Import Tax: Johannesburg Mover
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n   a n d   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-02-14T15:37:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/chicken-producers-jump-on-brazil-import-tax-johannesburg-mover.html
Country Bird Holdings Ltd. (CBH)  rallied
to a four-year high and  Astral Foods Ltd. (ARL)  gained the most in
more than nine months after South Africa imposed higher charges
on poultry imports from  Brazil  to protect local suppliers.  Country Bird surged as much as 11 percent to 5.60 rand and
closed 4 percent higher at 5.25 rand in Johannesburg, the
strongest since January 2008. Astral climbed 2.5 percent, the
most since April, to 125.20 rand.  Import charges of 6 percent to 63 percent will be imposed
for six months, as initial information shows Brazilian producers
are dumping products in South Africa, Francois Dubbelman of
Pretoria-based FC Dubbelman and Associates, which represents
local producers, said by phone from  Pretoria  today. Astral is
 South Africa ’s biggest chicken producer by market value.  “We weren’t expecting such a favourable outcome,” Sumil Seeraj, an analyst at Standard Bank Group Ltd.’s SBG Securities,
said in a phone interview from Johannesburg. “It won’t be
profitable for the importers to bring in imports with the higher
tariff.”  Brazilian imports have risen to about 15 percent of the
total poultry market in South Africa, leading to an oversupply
of South Africa’s preferred source of protein, Seeraj said.
Reducing imports from the South American country may help South
African producers realise better prices for their chickens, he
said.  The duties will be in place until Aug. 10, by which time
South Africa’s International Trade Administration Commission is
scheduled to have completed the investigation and made a final
decision, Dubbelman said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net 
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ana Monteiro at 
 amonteiro4@bloomberg.net  