-- Chilean Peso Weakens as Copper Declines on European Debt Concern
-- B y   S e b a s t i a n   B o y d
-- 2012-02-14T13:50:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/chilean-peso-weakens-as-copper-declines-on-european-debt-concern.html
Chile’s peso headed to its longest
losing streak in two months on declining copper prices and calls
for the central bank to weaken the currency.  The peso weakened 0.5 percent to 482.15 per  U.S. dollar  as
of 10:30 a.m. in Santiago, poised for its third day of declines,
the longest stretch since mid-December. The Bloomberg JPMorgan
Latin American Currency Index fell 0.2 percent today.  Copper slid for a third day, pushed lower today after
Moody’s Investors Service cut ratings on six European countries
including  Italy . Euro area finance ministers meet tomorrow in
Brussels to decide on a rescue package for  Greece .  “What we’re seeing is technical and triggered to an extent
by the uncertainty around the euro area meeting tomorrow,” said
Cristian Donoso, a currency trader at Banchile Corredores de
Bolsa SA in Santiago. “There is a drought of corporate flows,
so it’s basically bank trading and some offshore actors.”  The peso depreciated through a key technical level
yesterday after copper, which makes up more than half of  Chile ’s
exports, fell and Deputy Finance Minister Julio Dittborn said
the central bank should consider intervening to weaken the
currency. In technical analysis, investors and analysts study
charts of trading patterns and prices to predict changes in
asset prices.  “The peso yesterday closed weaker than the resistance
level at the top of the channel it had been in since Dec. 29,
and today that breach has been confirmed,” Donoso said  Offshore investors in the Chilean peso forwards market
reduced bets against the currency to $4.6 billion on Feb. 10
from $5 billion on Feb. 9.  Chile’s central bank probably will keep the  benchmark
interest rate  unchanged today after booming retail sales and a
drop in the jobless rate reduced the scope for a repeat of last
month’s unexpected rate cut.  Policy makers, led by central bank President Rodrigo
Vergara, will keep the overnight rate at 5 percent, according to
the median estimate of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
bank will announce its decision after 6 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sebastian Boyd in Santiago at 
 sboyd9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  