-- Chile Probably Will Hold Key Rate as Jobless Rate Tumbles
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-14T13:01:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/chile-likely-to-hold-key-rate-as-retail-sales-boom-slashes-unemployment.html
Chile ’s central bank probably will
keep the benchmark interest rate unchanged today after booming
retail sales and a drop in the jobless rate reduced the scope
for a repeat of last month’s unexpected rate cut.  Policy makers, led by central bank President Rodrigo Vergara, will keep the overnight rate at 5 percent, according to
the median estimate of 20 analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg . The
bank will announce its decision after 6:00 p.m. local time.  Europe ’s debt crisis and five interest rate increases last
year haven’t caused economic growth to slow as quickly as policy
makers forecast in December, maintaining the pressure on
consumer prices. The central bank may have acted too soon in
cutting rates last month and will temporarily stop its cycle of
easing today,  Alonso Cervera , an analyst at Credit Suisse Group
AG in  Mexico  City, said by telephone.  “The deceleration hasn’t been that clear and inflation of
late hasn’t been as low as the central bank expected, especially
in December,” he said. “We do expect more reductions, but
later in the year.”  After keeping the rate at 5 percent today, policy makers
will cut borrowing costs to 4.75 percent by May and 4.5 percent
by August, according to the median estimate of 56 traders and
investors surveyed by the central bank on Feb. 7.  Latin American central banks have taken a mixed approach to
accelerating inflation and prospects for slower growth abroad,
with  Brazil  cutting rates, Mexico keeping them on hold and
 Colombia  opting for an increase. Policy makers must be ready to
act if the European crisis deteriorates, the  International
Monetary Fund  said Feb. 2.  IMF Advice  “A weaker world economy and softer commodity prices
translate into a gloomier outlook,” Nicolas Eyzaguirre,
director of the Washington-based fund’s Western Hemisphere
department, wrote in a blog on the IMF website. “Be ready to
ease monetary policy, where strong institutions and low
inflation would permit it.”  Chile’s inflation has exceeded the central bank’s target
range of 2 percent to 4 percent in the past two months as
economic growth surged from 4 percent in November to a higher-
than-forecast 5.3 percent in the last month of the year.  Also in December, the  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell
half a point to 6.6 percent, the lowest level since before the
2009 recession. That, plus a surprise 10.1 percent surge in
retail sales in December, increases the odds the government
won’t implement a contingency plan to boost employment and
investment in 2012.  Economic Growth  “The country truly is showing great capacity to grow,”
acting Finance Minister Julio Dittborn told reporters in
Valparaiso on Jan. 31. “Obviously, things could change.”  Chile’s gross domestic product probably increased 6.3
percent last year, exceeding the central bank’s December
forecast of 6.2 percent, the minister said following publication
of December growth data. GDP gains will slow this year, with the
economy expanding between 3.75 percent and 4.75 percent, the
central bank said in its quarterly monetary report on Dec. 20.  Meanwhile the global economy has shown signs of improving,
with a decline in the U.S.  unemployment rate . Greek lawmakers
also have come closer to averting a default by approving
austerity plans to secure rescue funds.  “More calm has been seen in markets, with a decline in
risk premiums, a generalized appreciation of currencies against
the U.S. dollar and an increase in the price of raw materials,”
the central bank’s research department said in a report posted
on the institution’s website yesterday.  Peso Appreciation  Policy makers may continue cutting rates to soften the
peso, which has gained 7.8 percent against the U.S. dollar this
year, Bret Rosen, a Latin America strategist at Standard
Chartered Bank in  New York , wrote in a Feb. 8 report. The peso
fell 0.5 percent to 481.95 per  U.S. dollar  at 9:43 a.m. Santiago
time.  The reasons behind the decision to cut rates last month
haven’t changed, such as concerns that the external environment
remains weak and inflation estimates haven’t breached the
central bank target, Rosen wrote.  Two-year breakeven inflation, which is derived by the
difference between nominal and inflation-indexed yields, was
3.09 percent at 9:05 a.m. Policy makers target 3 percent
inflation over a two-year horizon, plus or minus 1 percentage
point.  “The monetary authority has emphasized the forward-looking
nature of its decision-making process,” Rosen wrote in the
report e-mailed to investors. “Staying on hold risks sending a
confusing message to the market, while supporting inflows to the
Chilean peso, which faces substantial appreciation pressures.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net . 