-- Chile Keeps 5 Percent Benchmark Rate as Economic Growth Proves Resilient
-- B y   R a n d a l l   W o o d s
-- 2012-02-14T21:18:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/chile-keeps-5-key-rate-as-economy-shrugs-off-global-slowdown.html
Chile ’s central bank kept its
benchmark  interest rate  unchanged as faster-than-expected growth
at home and abroad persuaded policy makers to pause after last
month’s surprise reduction in borrowing costs.  The policy board, led for the third time by bank President
Rodrigo Vergara, held the overnight rate at 5 percent today, as
forecast by 12 of 20 economists  surveyed by Bloomberg . Eight had
expected a second consecutive quarter-point cut.  Chile joins Mexico and  Peru  in delaying rate reductions
until it becomes clearer the global economy is slowing and that
it is damping domestic demand. Chile’s economic growth and
retail sales surpassed analyst forecasts in December, while
unemployment dropped to the lowest level since before the 2009
recession, pushing up inflation expectations.  “It would seem to us they’d take the more cautious
approach of waiting and seeing before cutting rates further,”
Katia Diaz, Latin America economist at 4Cast Inc., said by phone
from  New York  yesterday. “The consumer disposition to purchase
durables is strong, so it’s a matter of seeing whether this
trend will hold.”  Policy makers surprised all but 4 of 20 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg last month by  cutting rates  for the first time
since July 2009.  “Economic activity and internal demand have evolved
somewhat above what was projected,” the central bank said in a
statement accompanying today’s decision. “The labor market
remains tight.”  Global Scenario  Two-year breakeven inflation, which is derived from the
difference between nominal and inflation-linked yields on
interest-rate swaps, has increased 13 basis points, or 0.13
percentage point, to 3.01 percent since the central bank’s last
meeting.  The central bank targets 3 percent inflation plus or minus
one percentage point over a 24-month horizon.  Annual inflation 
has exceeded the upper limit of the target for the past two
months, reaching 4.2 percent in January.  The global economic scenario has also improved in recent
weeks. The U.S. jobless rate fell more than forecast in January,
while Greek lawmakers came closer to averting a default by
approving austerity plans to secure rescue funds.  Advanced economies are growing “slowly” as the U.S. shows
improved signs of vigor and doubts remain about  Europe ’s ability
to resolve the debt crisis, policy makers said in today’s
statement.  ‘Wait-and-See’  “Given the sum of external and internal news, I’m
expecting more of a wait-and-see policy from the central bank,”
Juan Pablo Castro, an economist at Banco Santander Chile in
Santiago, said by phone from Santiago yesterday. “A rate
reduction could come in March or April, although we don’t expect
more than two more reductions this year.”  Policy makers will lower the benchmark rate to 4.75 percent
in March before cutting to 4.5 percent by the end of the year,
according to the median estimate of 45 economists in a Feb. 9
central bank survey.  Economists in the same survey raised their forecast for
growth in the first quarter of 2012 and the full year after
growth accelerated to 5.3 percent in December from 4 percent the
month before.  Retail revenue in Chile grew 11 percent in 2011 as sales of
consumer durable goods expanded 6.2 percent, driving economic
gains of 6.3 percent in the year -- the fastest growth since
1997.  “Chile’s economy expanded last year at an above-potential
rate, staying in an overheating situation,” Alfredo Coutino,
Latin America director at Moody’s Analytics, said in a Feb. 6
note to investors. “If policy makers do not fight the excess
demand through more neutral or even restrictive policies, the
economy will become a victim of the overheating.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Randall Woods in Santiago at 
 rwoods13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  