-- China Starts System to Raise Data Accuracy, Statistics Head Says
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-14T05:50:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/china-starts-system-to-raise-data-accuracy-statistics-head-says.html
China will begin using a unified
system this week to collect industrial, retail sales and
investment data to help improve the accuracy of key economic
indicators, the country’s top statistician said.  A total of 700,000 industrial and construction companies,
retailers and real estate developers will report their data
online directly to a centralized system starting Feb. 18,  Ma Jiantang , commissioner of the National Bureau of Statistics,
said in a  statement  on the agency’s website today.  China’s economic data have come under increasing scrutiny
from investors and academics as the world’s second-largest
economy exerts a greater influence on global markets. The bureau
acknowledged more than five years ago that interference in and
falsification of data collection at the local level was harming
the credibility of the nation’s statistics.  The new data collection system “enables the bureau to
obtain original data directly from companies so as to prevent
any possible interference” by other parties, Ma said at a press
conference last month. It will also shorten the time it takes to
collect data and “reduce the burden” on companies, who
previously had to submit data separately for each indicator and
through several layers of local authorities, Ma added.  In today’s statement Ma called for companies to make “true
and accurate” reporting of information to the system and warned
that falsification of data would be dealt with “seriously.”  Improve Accuracy  Ma initiated a campaign to begin unified reporting and the
system is one of the bureau’s priorities through 2015 to improve
the accuracy of data that are sometimes at odds with statistics
reported separately by industries or local authorities.  China’s 31 provincial-level governments reported a combined
gross domestic product of 51.8 trillion yuan ($8.2 trillion)
last year, 10 percent higher than the figure calculated by the
statistics bureau at a national level, according to a report
yesterday on the  website  of the state-backed Economic Daily.  China’s national economic output published by the bureau
has fallen short of the combined value of local reports since
the indicator was calculated at both central and local levels in
1985, the report said. Last year’s discrepancy, 4.6 trillion
yuan, was a record and equivalent of the output of eastern
Shandong province, according to the report.  The statistics bureau didn’t specify how the new data-
collection system would affect reporting of gross domestic
product.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Li Yanping in Beijing at 
 yli16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  