-- China to Expand Essential-Drug List, Health Minister Says; Price Cuts Seen
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-14T16:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/china-plans-to-expand-list-of-essential-medicines-health-minister-says.html
China (CHGE7)  plans to expand its list of
essential drugs to 800 to cover diseases such as cancer this
year, and prices for pharmaceuticals may fall further, Health
Minister Chen Zhu said.  China , which in 2009 introduced the  current roster  of 307
drugs that are subsidized and purchased in bulk by provincial
governments, may have 500 western products and as many as 300
traditional Chinese medicines on the new list, Chen said in
Beijing yesterday.  The country implemented a series of drug price cuts last
year and is introducing a nationwide system of procurement aimed
at making essential medicines cheaper. Those plans raised
concerns of global drugmakers such as  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  and  Merck &
Co. , seeking expansion in the world’s fastest-growing
pharmaceuticals market. Prices of drugs have declined by an
average of between 30 percent and 35 percent, according to Chen.  “I hope prices can come down a bit more,” Chen said at a
briefing arranged by the  World Health Organization . “But price
is no longer the main issue, it’s quality,” he said, adding the
ministry will focus on improving the assessment of the quality
of drugs in the new tender system.  Cancer Lobby  Chen, a hematologist who received medical training in
 France , said one disease the government may cover is  chronic
myelogenous leukemia , a form of blood cancer, as patients’ lobby
groups push for drugs used in its treatment to be included in
the essential list.  “Drugs on our essential list today are mostly generics,
but shortly I think pressure groups for some of the diseases
such as cancer may ask for aid in some targeted therapies and we
are considering that,” he said.  The country also wants to eliminate hospitals’ reliance on
drug sales in the five years through 2015 to lower medical
costs, according to the Ministry of Health.  China Business News reported Feb. 13, citing an
unidentified person close to the Ministry of Commerce, that one
plan being studied is for drug companies to manage pharmacies
operated by public hospitals, benefiting China’s biggest drug
distributors such as  Sinopharm Group Co. (1099)  and  Shanghai
Pharmaceutical Holding Co. (2607)   Chen said he doesn’t expect this to happen.  “The likelihood of removing pharmacies from public
hospitals is not huge,” Chen told reporters after the briefing.
“We need to ensure the quality of drugs. And currently
pharmacies in hospitals are much more strictly managed than
those in society.”  One way for hospital to offset losses from drug sales is to
increase the amount they charge for services such as surgery,
Chen said.  “Neurosurgery for example, which needs about 10 people --
doctors, surgeons, nurses, anestheticians -- to perform for a
whole day, is charged at less than 2,000 yuan, which is
ridiculous,” Chen said.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Daryl Loo in Beijing at 
 dloo7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jason Gale at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net  