-- China’s Comac Wins Order for 20 C919 Planes From BOC Aviation
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-02-14T04:32:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/china-s-comac-wins-order-for-20-c919-planes-from-boc-aviation.html
Commercial Aircraft Corp. of China 
announced an order for 20 C919 aircraft as BOC Aviation Pte.
became the latest Chinese-owned company to place an order for
the nation’s first large passenger jet.  The agreement raises orders and commitments for the plane
to 235, state-owned Comac said in a press release at the
Singapore Airshow today. BOC aviation, the plane-leasing arm of
 Bank of China Ltd. (3988) , is the eleventh customer, it said.  Comac is working on detailed designs of the plane after
passing a preliminary technical review by the Chinese government
in December. With the C919, the planemaker aims to break Airbus
SAS and  Boeing Co. (BA) ’s stranglehold on the global passenger
aircraft market and benefit from the rising demand for jets in
emerging economies.  “ China  has invested huge money in the project and is
determined to make it successful,” said David Wei, an analyst
with Shanghai Securities Co. “Domestic airlines and state-
backed lessors are likely to keep placing orders.”  Among the existing customers for the 168-seat plane, as
many as 10 are state-backed Chinese companies, including the
nation’s big three airlines -- Air China Ltd., China Southern
Airlines Co. and  China Eastern Airlines Corp. (670)  The leasing arms
of Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. and Bank of
Communications Co. have also signed deals.  Engine Supply  Comac’s only overseas customer so far is  General Electric
Co. (GE) ’s leasing unit. A GE-backed engine-maker is also supplying
powerplants for the aircraft and the company is forming an
avionics venture with Comac’s parent,  Aviation Industry Corp. of
China .  Canadian planemaker Bombardier Inc. separately said it
continues to talk to Comac for jet programs and the two
companies may consider teaming up to manufacture planes. “These
are all types of discussions we can undertake with Comac,”
Philippe Poutissou, Bombardier’s vice president of marketing,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television today.  Comac expects to reach an agreement with Montreal-based
Bombardier within two months for cooperating on the development
of the C919, Han Kecen, the Chinese planemaker’s vice president,
said today.  The C919 is due to make its first flight in 2014 and to
enter service two years later, according to Comac’s schedule.
Comac says the jet will be 20 percent lighter and 10 percent
cheaper than the existing aircraft of similar size as it will be
built with composite materials and aluminum-lithium alloys.  To meet its 2014 deadline, Comac will probably have to
assemble its first C919 within a year of completing the detailed
designs, Shanghai Securities’ Wei said. The planemaker may
struggle to achieve this as Airbus and Boeing, which have more
experience, usually takes longer, he said.  The first delivery of Comac’s 90-seat ARJ21 has slipped by
at least four years from a previously planned 2007 debut.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  