-- China’s Xi Should Take a Lesson in U.S. Creativity: Junheng Li
-- B y   J u n h e n g   L i
-- 2012-02-14T00:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/china-s-xi-should-take-lesson-in-u-s-creativity-commentary-by-junheng-li.html
An executive in the Shanghai
office of an American private-equity firm decided to conduct
an experiment with two groups of MBA interns. He gave the same
project to a team from the  Wharton School  of the  University of
Pennsylvania  and to a team from a leading business school in
 China (CNGDPYOY) .  One group of students gave a well-balanced and coherent
presentation. The members of the other team took turns
upstaging one another for personal glory and ended up with
contradictory conclusions.  No one should be surprised that the American group gave
the organized report, while the Chinese students were out for
themselves.  But you might have predicted the opposite result, thanks
to the assumption that the rigid style of Chinese education
and parenting, illuminated in the U.S. by Amy Chua in “Battle
Hymn of the Tiger Mother,” creates higher-performing, more
disciplined students.  In challenging economic circumstances, it is natural for
Americans to look outward for inspiration rather than inward
for strength. The visit to the U.S. this week of  China ’s vice
president,  Xi Jinping , is highlighting these national
insecurities. But Xi, who is expected to become China’s next
president, is the one who should be impressed. While some
American parents despair that their children cannot compete
with phalanxes of Chinese prodigies, more Chinese parents are
sending their one and only child to America to be educated.
Why?  Soft Skills Required  Chinese are beginning to understand what Americans have
taken for granted: to move up the global food chain,
creativity, social skills and risk-taking have to be
cultivated. These “soft” skills can’t be taught by rote
learning -- and are in many cases quashed by the unrelenting
focus on the narrowly defined perfection that the Chinese
model champions.  I have an unusual perspective of my own. Although the
U.S. is my adopted home, I am a product of Chinese tiger
parenting in its most authentic form, having grown up in
 Shanghai  in the 1980s and 1990s. I have spent most of my
career as a global equity growth investor researching publicly
traded companies with defensible intellectual property,
including those in China.  Although I have found no shortage of extremely successful
companies in China that have capitalized on inventions and
designs from abroad, I have found few genuinely innovative
business models.  Some American commentators have extolled Chinese work on
green technology, but the design is made in the U.S. and
 Germany , and China imports the know-how. Chinese solar
companies, for example, are primarily manufacturing shops and
compete on low overhead and labor costs.  In general, for each proven business model in the U.S.,
there is a Chinese Mini-Me:  Google (GOOG)  and  Baidu (BAIDUZ) ,  Expedia (EXPE)  and
 Ctrip (CTRCIZ) ,  Amazon (AMZN)  and Dang Dang, YouTube and  Youku (YOUKUZ)  -- the list
goes on. Copycatting is a poor substitute for leadership and
cannot be the grounding for global dominance.  Military-style repetition and drilling, the cornerstone
of Chinese education, create minds that excel at mimicry, but
discourage the spontaneity and experimentation that cultivate
young minds to be curious and take risks. The Chinese approach
produces workers and followers, not entrepreneurs and leaders.  When children are forced to spend 16 hours a day on
homework, they are left with no time for anything else. Social
skills are undernourished, which results in a lack of
collaborative abilities and empathy later in their adult
lives.  Individual Sports  Sports offer a vivid example of the misplaced priorities.
China is rightly proud of having won the most gold medals at
the 2008 Beijing  Olympic Games , but its only “teams” to win
gold were in gymnastics and fencing, both intensely solo
sports.  Protecting children from failure stops them from
exploring roads less traveled and developing an understanding
of themselves, both their strengths and weaknesses.  Again, my own experience speaks to this. Sixteen years
ago, after studiously memorizing the entire Merriam-Webster
English dictionary, I aced TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign
Language) and the GRE, a substitute for the SAT because the
standard undergraduate exam was not available in China in the
early 1990s. This helped me secure a four-year scholarship to
attend one of the best liberal arts colleges in the U.S.  Only upon arrival did I realize that, even with the
entire dictionary in my head, my English communication skills
were near zero. Unwilling to risk my grades and an academic
setback -- even if only temporary -- I picked a major,
economics, that had the classes with the highest percentage of
students wearing baseball caps to class.  I graduated summa cum laude, of course. Only years later
would I realize how much I sacrificed in sticking to a narrow
range of subjects. This was when it dawned on me that my most
rewarding learning experience was in an art history class that
I only took to check off a humanities requirement. Given my
lack of language and cultural contexts, I found the class far
more difficult than theoretical calculus. It was the only
class in my entire academic history in which I got a B.  Americans need to realize that the impulse behind the
Chinese model of success is fear-driven -- and that it is fear
of failure that hamstrings success.  Until the Chinese system addresses its deficits
effectively, its economy will saddle itself with relatively
low-value-added jobs making products and services that are
invented and managed by Americans.  This doesn’t mean that Americans should rest easy. But
Americans would be off-base in thinking that China’s rise
means a corresponding loss in American competitiveness. The
jobs going overseas exemplify the creative destruction that
allows the American economy to continue to move up the value
chain. Globalization and labor specialization create a win-win
situation.  Americans should focus on what’s worked best for them and
should stay true to the attributes that have made the country
great: creativity, teamwork and risk-taking.  (Junheng Li is the founder and senior equity analyst of
JL Warren Capital LLC, an independent equity research firm in
 New York . The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Junheng Li at  junh@jlwarrencapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Katy Roberts at   kroberts29@bloomberg.net . 