-- China Money Rate Rises Before Smaller Banks’ Reserves Payments
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-14T08:59:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/china-money-rate-rises-before-smaller-banks-reserves-payments.html
China ’s money-market rate climbed
for a second day on speculation smaller banks are retaining
capital to prepare for additional reserves payments tomorrow.  The seven-day  repurchase rate , a benchmark for interbank
funding availability, rose even after the central bank suspended
one-year bill sales for a seventh week. Smaller lenders will set
aside more funds as reserves following the broadening of the
requirement-ratio base to include margin deposits, according to
Guo Caomin, a bond analyst at Industrial Bank Co. in Shanghai.  “The reserve payment has only a temporary impact on  money
supply ,” said Liu Junyu, a Shenzhen-based bond analyst at China
Merchants Bank Co., the nation’s sixth-biggest lender. “The
suspension of bill sales shows the central bank wants to ensure
proper liquidity supply.”  The seven-day  repurchase rate  gained 13 basis points to
3.79 percent as of 4:51 p.m. in  Shanghai , according to a
weighted average rate compiled by the National Interbank Funding
Center. It touched 4 percent, the highest level since Feb. 2.  The central bank sold 6 billion yuan ($953 million) of 28-
day repurchase contracts today, according to a statement on its
website.  The one-year swap contract, the fixed cost needed to
receive the floating seven-day repurchase rate, dropped one
basis point, or 0.01 percentage point, to 3.27 percent,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The yield on the 3.44
percent government bond due June 2016 climbed one basis point to
3.11 percent, according to the Interbank Funding Center.  --Judy Chen. Editors: Sandy Hendry, Ven Ram  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
 Judy Chen  in Shanghai at 
 xchen45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 