-- China’s Soybean Imports May Jump to All-Time High on Stockpiling
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s
-- 2012-02-14T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/china-s-soybean-imports-may-jump-to-all-time-high-on-stockpiling.html
China ’s soybean imports in the five
months ending this month may climb to a record on stockpiling as
a cushion in case of export supply disruptions, Oil World said.  Chinese imports of soybeans may be 23.6 million tons
for October through February, the Hamburg-based research company
said in a report today. That’s up 1.5 million tons from a year
earlier, it said. Imports by China, the world’s biggest buyer of
the oilseed, will total 56.4 million tons for the year ended
Sept. 30, up 7.8 percent from a year earlier, it said.  “The drought losses in South America are going to have
some major consequences for the Chinese buying policy,” Oil
World said. “With the growing supply risks, China will probably
step up its soybean purchases in an effort to hold sufficiently
large stocks as a cushion against potential supply disruptions
in the major exporting countries later this year.”  Soybean futures have gained 2.7 percent this year as of
yesterday because dry weather curbed prospects in  South America .
The price dropped 14 percent last year.  Chinese imports from  Brazil  jumped from 1.86 million tons
to 5.65 million tons in the five-month period and purchases from
Argentina gained 11 percent, according to the report. China will
probably increase imports from the U.S. in March through August
and again in the first half of the U.S. crop season from
September through February 2013, Oil World said.  Brazil is expected to be the largest exporter of soybeans
in the 2011-12 marketing year, followed by the U.S., according
to the  U.S. Department of Agriculture .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony C. Dreibus in  London  at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 Ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net . 