-- Christie Says Acting Education Chief Has Added Residence Since Nomination
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-14T18:36:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/christie-says-acting-education-chief-has-added-residence-since-nomination.html
New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie 
said acting Education Commissioner Christopher Cerf has added a
residence in a town represented by a Republican state senator
since he was nominated more than a year ago.  Cerf, who has a home in Montclair, is renting an apartment
in Montgomery to be closer to Trenton, Christie told reporters
today at the Statehouse. Montclair is in Essex County, which is
represented by Senator Ronald Rice, a Democrat.  Rice has blocked confirmation hearings on Cerf by invoking
senatorial courtesy, which allows the lawmaker in that chamber
from a nominee’s home county to prevent consideration. Christie
denied that Cerf’s rental in Montgomery, which is in Somerset
County and is represented by Republican Senator Christopher Bateman, was aimed at circumventing Rice.  “He decided to change his residence to have a place that’s
closer to work -- I can tell you the commissioner works long
hours and takes his job seriously,” said Christie, a first-term
Republican. “If it wasn’t for the completely baseless use of
senatorial courtesy by Senator Rice, he would have been
confirmed more than a year ago, and when he got this place in
Montgomery nobody would care less.”  The Senate Judiciary Committee had scheduled a Feb. 16
hearing on Cerf’s nomination, which has been canceled. “There
are concerns raised about his residency,” Derek Roseman, a
spokesman for committee chairman Nicholas Scutari, a Democrat,
said in an e-mail.  Year Wait  Christie nominated Cerf, a former deputy chancellor of the
New York City school system, in December 2010 to replace  Bret
Schundler , whom the governor fired after the state lost $400
million in federal school funding because of an error on an
application.  In addition to holding a lease on the Montgomery apartment,
Cerf has changed his driver’s license and voter records to
reflect the change, and has been paying utilities there,
according to Christie.  Cerf’s wife and teenage daughter remain in Montclair, and
Cerf may spend some nights there according to his schedule, the
governor said. Christie likened the situation to residents with
second homes at the  Jersey Shore  or elsewhere in the state.  Justin Barra, a spokesman for the state  Education
Department , declined in an e-mail to comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  