-- Gregoire Offers to Speak With Christie About Gay Marriage Amid Veto Pledge
-- B y   T e r r e n c e   D o p p
-- 2012-02-14T19:29:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/christie-says-n-j-gay-marriage-vote-good-theater-as-he-renews-veto-vow.html
Governor Christine Gregoire, who
signed a bill yesterday legalizing gay marriage in  Washington ,
offered to speak with  New Jersey (STONJ1)  Governor  Chris Christie  about
the issue as he pledged to veto a similar measure.  Gregoire, a Democrat, wrote a letter to  New Jersey ’s
Republican governor in January, explaining how she came to
support same-sex marriage.  “I have been on a personal journey, because while I am
governor, I am also Catholic,” Gregoire wrote in the Jan. 31
letter to Christie, a copy of which was provided by her office.
“I’ve reached a point where I have found my place.”  Michael Drewniak , a spokesman for Christie, said he
couldn’t immediately confirm whether Christie got the letter.  Christie, speaking to reporters earlier today in Trenton,
renewed his pledge to veto a gay-marriage bill, a day after it
passed the Senate, 24-16. Assemblyman Reed Gusciora, a gay
Democrat from Trenton who is sponsoring the bill in the lower
house, said he expects it to be approved Feb. 16.  Christie called the voting “good theater,” and said he
doesn’t anticipate proponents of the change could muster enough
support to override his veto. Democrats control the Senate,
24-16, and the Assembly, 48-32, and would need a two-thirds
majority, or 27 members in the Senate and 54 in the Assembly, to
override vetoes.  “They won’t get enough votes to override it, they know
that and I know that, and yesterday was a good bunch of theater,
but that was all it was,” Christie said. “They know it’s not
going to happen.”  Christie has said voters should decide the issue in a
referendum and that he would abide by the results, even though
he personally opposes the practice. Democrats have called gay
marriage a civil right that shouldn’t be subjected to a popular
vote.  “Sometimes the majority doesn’t always protect the
minority,” Gregoire said about voter referendums in an
interview today on CNN. “We were elected to make decisions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terrence Dopp in Trenton at 
 tdopp@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  