-- Cisco Says Mobile Data Traffic More Than Doubled as IPads Spread
-- B y   O l g a   K h a r i f
-- 2012-02-14T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/cisco-says-mobile-data-traffic-more-than-doubled-as-ipads-spread.html
Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , the biggest
maker of networking equipment, saw the strain on global wireless
networks more than double last year, fueled by more people
watching mobile video and using tablets.  In an annual report released today, Cisco said that
wireless data traffic -- videos, audio and e-mails sent via
laptops, smartphones and tablets -- rose 133 percent in 2011, a
bit more than the  131 percent  it anticipated.  Cisco’s Visual Networking Index is a key benchmark for the
industry, used by wireless carriers, equipment suppliers and
software developers to predict sales of their products. Faster
data growth could force carriers to spend more money on new
gear, following delays in upgrades that have crimped sales at
 Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR)  and other networking companies.  “Mobile data traffic will continue to explode,”  Suraj
Shetty , a vice president in charge of service-provider marketing
at  San Jose , California-based Cisco, said in an interview.
“This is a trend we don’t see slowing down.”  Mobile data growth will climb 110 percent this year, Cisco
predicted. And the traffic will increase 18-fold by 2016,
reaching 10.8 exabytes per month, the company said. That’s
equivalent to streaming 33 billion DVDs annually.  The surge resembles what happened with wired Internet
networks between 1997 and 2001, when their average annual growth
was 150 percent, Cisco said.  “A lot of service providers are increasing their spending
on wireless,” Shetty said.  YouTube Clips  Video is a big source of the traffic. More people are
watching YouTube clips or streamed movies on their laptops and
phones -- activities that take up a lot of bandwidth. By 2016,
video will account for more than 70 percent of all mobile
traffic, up from about 52 percent in 2011, Cisco said.  The popularity of smartphones and tablets is another
contributor. While laptops hooked up to wireless networks are
the biggest single source of network congestion today, that’s
changing. By 2016, smartphones will account for 48 percent of
global mobile traffic, up from 18 percent now, Cisco said.
Tablets will contribute 10 percent of the total, up from 1
percent in 2011.  Wireless consumption also is becoming more evenly
distributed among customers. At the beginning of 2010, the
heaviest 1 percent of users accounted for 52 percent of traffic.
That percentage has come down since carriers such as AT&T Inc.
curbed browsing speeds of the top users. In 2011, the top
customers contributed 24 percent, Cisco said.  Gigabyte Club  Meanwhile, the average consumer’s data appetite is growing.
By 2016, 60 percent of mobile users -- some 3 billion people
worldwide -- will belong to the Gigabyte Club, according to
Cisco. That means they consume more than a gigabyte of mobile
data a month. In 2011, only half of 1 percent of users fit that
description.  That’s put a further strain on wireless carriers, which
already have struggled to meet demand in recent years,
especially in cities like  New York  and  San Francisco . One remedy
is to rely more on Wi-Fi networks at homes, coffee shops and
airports.  By 2015, Wi-Fi networks will overtake wired Internet
connections, such as digital subscriber lines, as the technology
handling more global traffic than any other -- reaching 46.7
percent, according to Cisco. Wi-Fi networks handled 38 percent
of the total last year, while wired connections accounted for 60
percent. Cellular networks made up just 2 percent, Cisco found.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Olga Kharif in Portland, Oregon, at 
 okharif@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  