-- Colm Kelleher Says Volcker Rule Misperceives How Market Makers Earn Profit
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e
-- 2012-02-14T20:29:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/colm-kelleher-says-volcker-rule-misperceives-how-market-makers-earn-profit.html
Morgan Stanley (MS) , owner of the world’s
largest brokerage, said the Volcker rule suffers from a
misunderstanding of how banks earn returns from market making
and threatens to curb profitable services.  “There appears to be a real misconception about how
principal market makers generate revenues,”  Colm Kelleher , who
runs the bank’s trading business, and Chief Operating Officer
 Jim Rosenthal , wrote in a comment letter posted to the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission’s website today. “The proposal
should be revised to reflect the realities.”  Morgan Stanley, which generated about 44 percent of its
revenue last year from trading, focused its criticism of the
proposal on language distinguishing between permitted market
making and prohibited proprietary trading, as well as on a
provision that requires market makers to generate most of their
revenue from commissions, fees and bid-ask spreads.  Market makers often must hold positions for months to serve
clients’ needs and derive the “preponderance” of customer-
facilitation revenue from changes in the value of inventory
holdings, the executives wrote. Bid-ask spreads are often
unavailable in illiquid markets and fees and commissions from
principal market making made up less than 5 percent of Morgan
Stanley’s trading revenue over the last three years, they said.  “Some of the criteria for market making in the proposal
are more characteristic of agency trading and principal market
making in certain highly liquid, exchange-traded markets, rather
than the more common situation of principal market making in
less liquid markets,” the executives wrote.  ‘Customer-Facing’ Business  The rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the Dodd-Frank Act to restrict risky
trading at banks that operate with federal guarantees. The Fed
and three other regulators released the 298-page proposal in
October, seeking comment on how it would affect market-making
and liquidity. The CFTC released its proposal separately in
January. The proposal has drawn more than 14,000 responses from
commentators including regulators, banks and trade groups.  To differentiate market-making from prohibited proprietary
trading, regulators should mandate that the activities are part
of a “customer-facing business,” Morgan Stanley wrote.
Characteristics including sales coverage, dialogue with clients,
and research distribution should be used to determine whether
the unit is “customer-facing,” they wrote.  Morgan Stanley argued that the rule should be implemented
over a two-year period for U.S. operations, while an extra year
should be given to bring international operations in line.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael J. Moore in  New York  at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 