-- Common Antibiotic Therapy Fails to Ease Sinus Infection Symptoms in Study
-- B y   N i c o l e   O s t r o w
-- 2012-02-14T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/common-antibiotic-therapy-fails-to-ease-sinus-infection-symptoms-in-study.html
Amoxicillin, the most commonly
prescribed antibiotic for sinus infection, works no better than
a dummy pill in getting rid of the ailment, a study found.  Three days after starting antibiotics, there were little
difference in symptoms between those taking amoxicillin and
those given a placebo, according to research today in the
 Journal of the American Medical Association .  One in five antibiotic prescriptions in the U.S. are given
to adults for sinus infections, the authors wrote. The findings
suggest doctors avoid routine antibiotic treatment for patients
with an uncomplicated sinus infection, they said in the study.  “There’s no clinical benefit for antibiotic treatment for
most patients with sinusitis,”  Jane Garbutt , the lead study
author and research associate professor of medicine at
Washington University School of Medicine in  St. Louis , said
yesterday in a telephone interview. “It’s hard for doctors to
not give an antibiotic when there isn’t a good alternative.”  Garbutt suggests doctors hold off on antibiotics for a few
days to see if the sinus infection clears up on its own. Over-
the-counter painkillers and cold and cough medicines may help
treat symptoms until the infection begins to go away, she said.
Studies are needed to look at whether treatments like nasal
irrigation may ease symptoms, she said.  The study included 166 adults who had moderate to very
severe  sinus infection  symptoms, including pain or tenderness in
the face and sinuses and nasal discharge lasting from seven to
28 days. Half were assigned to receive amoxicillin while the
others were given a placebo.  Little Difference  After three days, there was little difference between the
groups in terms of their quality of life symptoms, including the
need to blow their nose, sneezing, headache and fatigue. While
some improvement in the antibiotic group was seen after seven
days, the difference was unlikely noticed by patients, Garbutt
said. By day 10, a similar number of patients in each group said
their symptoms were improved or they were cured, the authors
said.  “Patients don’t get better faster or have fewer symptoms
when they get antibiotics,” said  Jay Piccirillo , the study’s
senior author and a professor of otolaryngology at  Washington
University , in a statement. “Our results show that antibiotics
aren’t necessary for a basic sinus infection -- most people get
better on their own.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Ostrow in New York at 
 nostrow1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  