-- Commonwealth Bank’s First-Half Profit Exceeds Estimates on Fewer Bad Loans
-- B y   J a c o b   G r e b e r
-- 2012-02-15T05:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/commonwealth-bank-s-first-half-profit-exceeds-estimates-on-fewer-bad-loans.html
Commonwealth Bank of Australia , the
nation’s biggest bank by market value, said first-half profit
rose 19 percent as fewer loans soured.  Net income  in the six months ended Dec. 31 climbed to
A$3.62 billion ($3.87 billion) from A$3.05 billion a year
earlier, the Sydney-based bank said in an e-mailed statement
today. That beat the median estimate of seven analysts surveyed
by Bloomberg News for profit of A$3.51 billion.  Chief Executive Officer Ian Narev, who took over from Ralph Norris in December, is among Australian bank chiefs battling the
weakest demand for home loans since 1977. Rising wholesale
funding costs, fueled by Europe’s debt woes, led Commonwealth
Bank to boost its mortgage lending rate by 10 basis points this
week, a move independent of the central bank, which kept
borrowing costs unchanged last week.  “They’re not doing much wrong,” said Mark Nathan, who
helps manage about A$3 billion of assets at Arnhem Investment
Management in Sydney. They had a “solid impairment performance,
modest growth, but not out of line with what can be expected in
the current credit environment.”  Shares (CBA)  of Commonwealth Bank rose 0.5 percent to A$50.23 in
Sydney, taking this year’s gain to 2.1 percent. The benchmark
 S&P/ASX 200 index  gained 0.3 percent today.  Commonwealth Bank’s business and private banking profit
rose 10 percent to A$551 million, while retail banking earnings
increased 3 percent to A$1.44 billion, the lender said in
today’s statement.  Fundamentals Strong  “The current trend of weak credit growth,  asset allocation 
towards cash and volatile markets will continue in  Australia ,”
Narev said in today’s statement. Still, “the fundamentals of
the Australian economy remain strong,” he said.  Commonwealth Bank’s so-called cash profit, which excludes
accounting gains including from hedging, rose 7 percent to
A$3.58 billion. The median estimate of six surveyed analysts was
for cash earnings of A$3.52 billion  The lender will pay a dividend for the half of A$1.37 a
share, 4 percent more than a year earlier.  Melbourne-based  National Australia (NAB)  said last week that cash
profit climbed 7.7 percent in the three months ended Dec. 31 to
A$1.4 billion.  Westpac (WBC)  is due to publish fiscal first-quarter
earnings tomorrow, followed one day later by  Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd.   Increased Deposits  While Australia’s biggest banks have cut their reliance on
credit markets as local households save at close to the highest
rate in a quarter century, debt markets still furnish about 40
percent of the funds they use for lending.  Customer deposits made up 62 percent of Commonwealth Bank’s
total funding as of Dec. 31, up from 60 percent a year earlier,
the lender said today. Customer deposits jumped $35 billion to
A$370 billion.  The four largest lenders boosted their  interest rates 
independent of the central bank since Feb. 10, actions condemned
by lawmakers including Treasurer  Wayne Swan , who urged customers
to switch lenders.  Commonwealth Bank of Australia increased the interest on a
variable rate home loan by 10 basis points to 7.41 percent on
Feb. 13, followed by National Australia, which added 9 basis
points to 7.31 percent. Westpac boosted the cost by 10 basis
points to 7.46 percent on Feb. 10, after ANZ Bank added 6 basis
points to 7.36 percent.  Commonwealth Bank’s net interest margin, a measure of the
profitability of the bank’s lending business, narrowed 10 basis
points to 2.15 percent in the half year from 2.25 percent in the
six months through June 30, the bank said today.  Narev said until there are clear signs of a sustained
recovery, particularly in  Europe , “average funding costs will
continue to rise.”  Impairment charges for soured loans fell 25 percent to
A$545 million, the bank said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jacob Greber in Sydney at 
 jgreber@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  