-- Republican Leaders Seek to Persuade Members on U.S. Payroll Tax-Cut Plan
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-02-15T19:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/congress-near-payroll-tax-cut-agreement.html
U.S. House Republican leaders are
selling their members on a tentative agreement to extend a
payroll tax cut through 2012 as they seek to avoid the
brinkmanship that hurt the party late last year.  “There is an agreement in principle, there are a lot of
details I hope will be wrapped up today,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, told reporters in  Washington  this
morning. “If the agreement comes together like I expect it
will, the House should vote this week.”  Senate Democratic leaders also plan a vote this week, said
a party aide with knowledge of the talks who wasn’t authorized
to speak publicly.  Representative  Fred Upton  of Michigan, a Republican on the
House-Senate negotiating committee, said he hopes the agreement
will be signed this afternoon. “We’re just about done,” he
said.  One “unsettled” issue is the role that fees charged by
mortgage companies  Fannie Mae  and  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  would have in
helping offset the cost of the bill, said Representative  Sander Levin , a Michigan Democrat on the conference committee.  The plan would extend the two-percentage-point  payroll tax 
break for workers through Dec. 31 without covering the $94
billion cost, said Representative  Kevin Brady  of  Texas  and other
lawmakers who attended a meeting among  House Republicans  last
evening.  Jobless Benefits  It would continue expanded unemployment  benefits  while
gradually reducing the maximum number of weeks people can
collect payments and avert a 27 percent cut in doctors’  Medicare (USBOMDCR) 
reimbursements through the rest of this year, Brady and the
other lawmakers said. Those would be paid for with reductions
elsewhere in the budget.  Representative Steve LaTourette of Ohio said last night
that the plan received a “mixed reception” during the party’s
meeting. With two weeks until the tax break expires, several
Republicans said they might have to back the deal.  “It’s not great policy, but it’s the best of a bad
world,” Representative  Tom Price , a Georgia Republican, told
reporters.  President Barack Obama yesterday urged Congress to act
quickly on the  tax cut  and  unemployment insurance . With the
economic recovery still fragile, lawmakers “shouldn’t hike
taxes on working Americans,” he said.  $160 Billion  The deal will be tough to support for some Republicans, who
have repeatedly said that the entire payroll package, with a 10-
year price tag of as much as $160 billion, must be financed with
other spending reductions.  The payroll tax cut issue has dogged Republicans since
December, when the party initially rejected an extension and was
blamed for almost allowing the break to expire. Under political
pressure, Boehner agreed to an extension through Feb. 29 to let
negotiators work on a longer-term measure.  Asked today why Republicans had dropped their insistence on
financing the payroll tax cut extension with almost $100 billion
in spending cuts, Boehner accused Democrats of holding up an
agreement to inflict more political damage on his party.  “We were not going to allow the Democrats to continue to
play political games and raise taxes on working Americans,” the
speaker said.  Some Republicans said they want to move past the issue.  “The mood is to get it off the table,” said Florida
Republican Dennis Ross. Fellow freshman Representative Bobby Schilling of Illinois added, “We need to just make this thing
go away.”  Republican Support  Brady, a member of the negotiating committee, said
Republicans may be more willing to support this deal because it
begins reducing jobless benefits. People in states with the
highest rates of unemployment can now claim benefits for as long
as 99 weeks.  The proposal would continue 99 weeks of benefits through
May for those states, according to a document spelling out the
plan, provided by a Democratic aide. As many as 79 weeks of
jobless benefits would be provided through August and as long as
73 weeks through December, according to the document.  Only states with unemployment rates exceeding 9 percent
would offer up to 73 weeks of jobless benefits, said a
Republican aide, speaking on condition of anonymity. Under the
tentative deal, 36 states would be allowed to offer up to 63
weeks of jobless benefits, the aide said.  “Members are going to be encouraged by the unemployment
reforms and the fact they’re fully paid for,” Brady said. “We
achieved 90 percent of what we were seeking.”  High School Equivalency  The Democrats’ document said the deal doesn’t include a
requirement, proposed by Republicans, that recipients of jobless
assistance obtain a high school equivalency certificate if they
don’t already have a diploma.  Still, the agreement would allow states to require drug
testing for beneficiaries who lost a job for failing or refusing
to take a drug test, the Republican aide said.  The tentative deal also would require states distributing
federal welfare payments to bar recipients from using their
electronic-benefits cards to withdraw funds from automated-
teller machines in strip clubs, gambling casinos and liquor
stores, the Republican aide said.  Representative Steve Chabot, an  Ohio  Republican, predicted
that the measure will need the support of some House Democrats
because “you will have a lot of folks that will vote no.”  The plan will be paid for, in part, by allowing the sale of
wireless spectrum, LaTourette said. That element hasn’t
encountered much opposition among lawmakers.  Federal Workers  Other proposals to cover the bill’s cost might cause
partisan tension. Second-ranking House Democrat Steny Hoyer said
federal workers may bear a “disproportionate share” of the
cost because of a provision that would require them to pay more
toward their pensions. Government workers are a significant
constituency in Hoyer’s Maryland district.  The deal wouldn’t extend miscellaneous tax breaks that
expired at the end of the year, as Democrats had sought,
according to a party aide familiar with the talks who spoke on
condition of anonymity. It also doesn’t include a Republican-
backed provision that would let companies write off the full
cost of capital investments, said House Majority Leader  Eric Cantor , a Virginia Republican.  To be adopted and sent to the House and Senate floors for a
vote, the agreement will need the backing of a majority of each
chamber among the 20 lawmakers on the negotiating committee.
House Democrats on the panel, including Representatives Sander Levin of  Michigan  and Allyson Schwartz of  Pennsylvania , said
late yesterday that they were reviewing the proposal.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  