-- Congress Heads Into Transportation Debate Without Obama Proposal
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f   a n d   L i s a   C a r u s o
-- 2012-02-14T05:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/congress-heads-into-transportation-debate-without-obama-proposal.html
President  Barack Obama ’s call to
almost double transportation spending over the next six years
may have little influence on Congress as it starts debating how
much money to allot to U.S. infrastructure.  The Senate brought highway, bridge and mass-transit
legislation to the floor last week and the House is scheduled to
start discussing a bill tomorrow. Both chambers are examining
proposals for funding from non-transportation sources, including
forcing federal employees pay more toward their  pensions ,
changing the way inherited individual retirement accounts are
taxed and using revenue from expanded oil and gas drilling.  Obama’s  plan  seeks to spur  job creation  by stepping up
infrastructure spending and redirecting funds previously used
for military operations in Iraq and  Afghanistan . House and
Senate lawmakers are already looking at proposals that lock in
spending near current levels, and won’t take Obama’s into
consideration, Patrick Hughes, an analyst with investment
advisers Height Analytics LLC, said in a phone interview.  “We would assign very little relevance to the president’s
proposal,” said Hughes, who is based in Washington. “Congress
is in the midst of debating and voting on an infrastructure plan
that would trump what the president has put forward.”  Half of the money previously spent on wars could be used
for infrastructure and the remainder to pay down the federal
deficit, Obama has said without providing figures.  ‘Pure Posturing’  The Senate is proposing a two-year bill with $109 billion
in funding. The $260 billion House bill is for five years. That
compares with current legislation that allocated about $286
billion over six years and has operated on a series of
extensions at about the same spending level since 2009.  The White House  budget  released yesterday proposes spending
$476 billion over six years on surface transportation, with an
immediate $50 billion of spending this year.  “This is pure posturing,” Norman Anderson, chief
executive officer of Washington-based CG/LA Infrastructure LLC,
a consulting company.  Financing the Highway Trust Fund, which pays for U.S. road
and public-transportation projects using money raised by an 18.4
cent-a-gallon vehicle-fuel tax, has been the main sticking point
in passing a new bill. The tax was last increased in 1993.
Without additional income, the fund may be insolvent as soon as
October, the  Congressional Budget Office  said last month.  The House begins debate tomorrow on its highway  bill , which
seeks to fund highway projects in part by ending guaranteed
funding for mass transit.  Transit Proposal Opposition  House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, may face a
revolt from party members whose districts have high
concentrations of public-transportation users, said Joshua Schank, CEO of the Eno Center for Transportation, a
transportation policy research and advocacy group based in
Washington.  House Democrats  including Jerrold Nadler of  New York  and
 Earl Blumenauer  of  Oregon  also oppose that plan. Public-
transportation advocates, business groups such as the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce, the largest business lobby, and state and
local government officials have also spoken out against the
plan.  American Express, Macy’s  The Partnership for  New York City , a group of CEOs of
companies that do business in New York including  American
Express Co. (AXP) ,  Macy’s Inc. (M) ,  Aetna Inc. (AET) , wrote to House leaders
yesterday that the bill “would result in irreparable damage to
the transportation infrastructure of New York and America’s
other great cities.”  Daniel Doctoroff, president of Bloomberg LP, also signed
the letter.  Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood said the transit
funding changes are among the biggest obstacles to getting the
bill passed.  The  Senate  hasn’t firmed up funding for its bill. Senate
Finance Chairman  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who had proposed
using changes in some IRA rules to help pay for the bill, backed 
away from the plan after protests from Republicans.  The changes that Baucus proposed last week would raise $4.6
billion for the Treasury over the next decade by requiring
beneficiaries to pay taxes within five years instead of
spreading them over their lifetimes, according to the Finance
Committee.  While Baucus later backed away from the effort, the plan
remains in the bill and an alternative funding source hasn’t
been announced.  Breaking with the practice of taking user fees to pay for
infrastructure projects is going to be a stumbling block, Eno’s
Schank said.  That makes the proposals “suspect and people will fight
over them,” he said. “The main problem is going to be the
money.”  The House bill is H.R. 7. The Senate bill is S. 1813.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carol Wolf in  Washington  at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  