-- Container Rates Rising 28% as Cargo to U.S. Rebounds From Decline: Freight
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f   a n d   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-02-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/container-rates-rising-28-as-cargo-to-u-s-rebounds-from-decline-freight.html
Container rates on the world’s
biggest international trade route are rallying after U.S.
imports of manufactured goods rebounded from the first decline
in two years.  U.S. container imports gained 1.6 percent in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier, compared with a drop of the same
amount in the previous three months, data from Newark, New
Jersey-based PIERS show. Volumes from northern Europe and the
Mediterranean rose 12 percent. Rates to carry 40-foot boxes to
the West Coast from China rose 29 percent since Dec. 16,
according to  Clarkson Plc (CKN) , the world’s largest shipbroker.  Shipping lines  will make money again this year after “deep
losses” at the end of 2011, said  Jon Windham , an analyst at
 Barclays Capital  in Hong Kong. Investors should buy shares of
A.P. Moeller-Maersk A/S and Neptune Orient Lines Ltd., according
to Morgan Stanley, which expects charter rates to more than
double this year. U.S. cargo volumes will rise as much as 3.5
percent to a five-year high in 2012, UBM Global Trade predicts.  “The data show U.S. households and businesses are still
looking to take in imports,” said  Paul Dales , a senior
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in London, whose 1,200
clients include  hedge funds , banks and insurance companies.
“The U.S. economy is not doing brilliantly, but at least it’s
growing and probably will continue to grow this year.”  Steel Box  The cost of moving a loaded forty-foot steel box to the
West Coast from China was last at $1,824, from $1,418 on Dec.
16, Clarkson data show. That’s still 5.6 percent lower than a
year ago after a capacity glut drove rates down as much as 30
percent in 2011. Average costs to charter ships carrying 4,400
twenty-foot boxes for six to 12 months will rise to $18,000 a
day this year, from $8,700 in 2011, according to Morgan Stanley.  The gain in volume to the U.S. from  Europe  accounted for 95
percent of fourth-quarter growth, and contrasts with a 0.9
percent decline in imports from  Asia , according to PIERS, a unit
of UBM Global Trade. Cargoes totaled 4.27 million units last
quarter, the data show.  The 17-nation euro weakened to its lowest quarterly average
since September 2010 against the  dollar , making the region’s
goods more competitive, as its debt crisis deepened. China’s
yuan strengthened for an eighth consecutive quarter against the
dollar. The Asian nation’s global exports rose 13.4 percent in
December, compared with 17.9 percent a year earlier, data from
the customs bureau show.  Delaying Purchases  The fourth-quarter gains in the U.S. may have been caused
by last-minute imports for retailers who had delayed purchases
in the third quarter, said Louis J. Le Gendre of International
Shipping & Logistics in Chatham,  New Jersey . Some shipping lines
cut services or idled vessels. The  management consultant  expects
U.S. volumes to continue to “gently pick up.”  Global container volumes will rise 7.7 percent this year,
Clarkson said last month, reducing a previous estimate of 8.2
percent. That’s still more than its prediction for a 7.3 percent
expansion in the global container fleet. About 90 percent of
trade moves by sea, according to the Round Table of
International Shipping Associations.  While China-West Coast box rates are rebounding, they are
still 36 percent below the $2,833 reached in July 2010. Maersk,
owner of the world’s largest  container line , will report a 7.7
percent drop in net income to 13.8 billion kroner ($2.45
billion) for 2012, the mean of 15 analyst estimates compiled by
Bloomberg show. Shares of the Copenhagen-based company rose 20
percent this year, compared with an 8.9 percent gain by the MSCI
All-Country World Index of equities.  World Trade  World trade in goods and services will expand 3.8 percent
this year, from 6.9 percent in 2011, the  International Monetary
Fund  said last month. The Washington-based group cut its
forecast by 2 percentage points from September.  The  U.S. economy  will grow 2.2 percent in 2012, compared
with 1.7 percent last year, according to the mean of 89
economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. expanded at
the fastest pace since mid-2010 in the fourth quarter as factory
orders advanced for two consecutive months, and  unemployment 
reached the lowest level in almost three years in January.  That growth may be curbed as the euro-zone crisis weakens
global trade. The region’s $12 trillion economy will drop 0.45
percent in the first three months of this year and continuing
contracting through the end of 2012, according to the median of
as many as 12 economist estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  told the House
Budget Committee in  Washington  on Feb. 2 that the pace of the
U.S. recovery had been “frustratingly slow” and that left the
economy “vulnerable to shocks.”  Baltic Index  Other types of vessels have yet to rebound. The Baltic Dry
Index, a measure of commodity shipping costs, slumped 55 percent
from the start of this year, according to the  Baltic Exchange ,
which publishes freight rates along more than 50 maritime
routes. Very large crude carriers, each hauling about 2 million
barrels of oil, dropped 14 percent to $27,089 a day, Clarkson
data show.  Expectations for earnings may improve after a group of
shipping companies said they would seek to raise annual contract
prices. The Transpacific Stabilization Agreement, whose 15
members include Maersk, said Feb. 9 it would ask customers for
an increase of at least $500 per forty-foot box for shipments
from  China .  The shippers’ position is being strengthened by economic
indicators. U.S. consumer confidence reached a one-year high in
the week ended Feb. 5, the Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index
showed. The  unemployment rate  fell to 8.3 percent in January,
the lowest since February 2009, according to the Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Companies added 243,000 workers in January, the most
in nine months, the Labor Department said Feb. 3.  Vehicle Sales  That’s boosting demand for  consumer goods . Cars and light
trucks sold at an annual rate of 14.1 million units last month,
the most since August 2009, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Homebuilders’ confidence rose in January to the highest level in
more than four years, according to the National Association of
Home Builders/Wells Fargo. More home buying increases demand for
furniture, the largest item brought to the U.S. in containers,
said Mario Moreno, an economist at UBM Global Trade.  Factory output rose 0.9 percent in December, the largest
increase in a year, according to Federal Reserve data. Factory
orders advanced 1.1 percent that month, the second month of
gains, Commerce Department data show. The order backlog climbed
1.4 percent, the most since March 2008.  “We’re seeing a consistent pickup in U.S. indicators
across the board, and we’re seeing it in import growth as
well,” said  Dean Maki , chief U.S. economist at Barclays in  New
York . “The U.S. is back on a more solid growth trend.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in  London  at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net ;
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in London at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  