-- Crude Oil Rises to Three-Week High as Iran Threat Counters European Debt
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-02-14T13:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/crude-oil-trades-near-two-week-high-as-iran-threat-counters-supply-growth.html
Oil rose to its highest in more than
three weeks in New York, reversing earlier declines as concern
that tensions with  Iran  may hinder Middle East exports
outweighed debt downgrades for six European nations.  Futures rose as much as 0.7 percent, having dropped as much
as 0.5 percent after Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit
ratings of nations including  Italy  and Spain and attached a
“negative” outlook to the U.K. and  France . A U.S. Energy
Department report tomorrow may show crude stockpiles  climbed  a
fourth week, according to a Bloomberg News survey. Iran may
respond to sanctions with “low-level provocation” such as
slowing shipping through the Strait of Hormuz, supporting oil
prices,  Standard & Poor’s  said.  “We’re a little concerned about the supply side this
year,” said  Andrey Kryuchenkov , an analyst at VTB Capital in
 London . “Situations in Iran, Syria and Sudan are keeping supply
jitters on the radar. Today is likely to be a quiet session,
with the euro-zone debt crisis remaining the focus of
attention.”  Oil for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile Exchange 
rose as much as 74 cents to $101.65 a barrel, the highest since
Jan. 19, and was at $101.31 at 1:36 p.m. London time. Prices are
20 percent higher than a year ago.  Brent oil for March settlement was at $117.51 a barrel,
down 42 cents, on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The contract
expires today. The more-actively traded April future fell 41
cents to $116.98. The European benchmark contract’s  premium  to
New York-traded West Texas Intermediate narrowed to $16.20 from
$17.02. It reached a record of $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Supply Disruptions  Iranian authorities could disrupt supplies of oil from the
Persian Gulf by imposing tanker inspections or boarding merchant
ships in its territorial waters, supporting  oil prices  because
markets would increasingly view armed conflict as “a real, if
remote, possibility,” Jean-Michel Six, the Paris-based chief
economist for Europe at S&P, wrote.  Mohammad Ali Khatibi, Iran’s governor to the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries, said oil prices will continue
to rise and the global market won’t be able to compensate for a
loss of Iranian crude supply, the country’s state-run Mehr news
agency reported.  “The increase of crude prices in the global market is
likely to continue,” Khatibi was cited as saying. “The status
of various oil producing nations shows that, in the current
context, there is no possibility to find a replacement to make
up for the oil ban against a country.”  European Downgrades  Moody’s lowered its ratings on  Spain , Italy, Portugal,
Slovakia, Slovenia and Malta, citing “uncertainty over the euro
area’s prospects for institutional reform of its fiscal and
economic framework.”  Euro-area finance chiefs will convene in Brussels tomorrow
for their second extraordinary meeting on  Greece  in a week.
Ministers declined to ratify a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion)
bailout for Greece in a special session on Feb. 9, demanding
that officials there put their verbal commitments into law.
Greek lawmakers approved the austerity measures yesterday.  “The news from Moody’s is a reminder of the risks that
remain” for oil demand in Europe, said  Michael McCarthy , a
chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific Pty in
Sydney who forecasts  New York  crude will trade between $98.50
and $102.50 a barrel. “The meeting of euro finance ministers
tomorrow will coincide with the publication of the U.S.
inventory data. We’re seeing further concerns that a deal for
Greece might not come through.”  Supply Reports  The Energy Department may say U.S. crude inventories
increased by 1.6 million barrels last week in the longest
buildup since April, according to the median of 10 analyst
estimates in the Bloomberg News  survey . Gasoline supplies may
have gained 675,000 barrels, the survey showed.  The industry-funded  American Petroleum Institute  publishes
its supply report today.  Distillate stockpiles fell 1.1 million barrels to 145.5
million, the survey showed. Distillate fuels, which include
heating oil and diesel, gained 1.17 million barrels to 146.6
million in the week ended Feb. 3.  Bahrain’s energy minister said he would prefer oil prices
to remain close to current levels, which allow producers to
invest in output capacity without putting economic growth in the
West at risk. Prices of $110 a barrel or more may “derail
recoveries in a number of fragile Western economies,” Abdul Hussain Ali Mirza said yesterday.  Yesterday’s settlement prices for crude and oil-product
futures and options were based on floor trading in New York
after CME Group Inc. halted electronic trading on its Globex
system because of technical issues.  The glitch “pushed traders onto the Nymex floor, turning
an otherwise sleepy final half hour into a rush to close
trades,”  Stephen Schork , president of the Schork Group in
Villanova,  Pennsylvania , said in a note to clients today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Grant Smith in London at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  