-- Crude Oil-Tanker Glut Stays at Four-Week High, Survey Shows
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-02-14T17:06:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/crude-oil-tanker-glut-stays-at-four-week-high-survey-shows-1-.html
A surplus of the largest  oil tankers 
competing to load crude at Persian Gulf ports stayed unchanged
after reaching a four-week high last week, a survey showed.  There are 10  percent more  very large crude carriers
available for hire over the next 30 days than there are likely
cargoes, according to a Bloomberg survey of seven shipbrokers
and owners today. The glut was the biggest since Jan. 10 as of
last week.  The VLCC surplus reached a 14-month low of 5 percent on
Jan. 17, helped by stronger crude demand before  China ’s New
Year. VLCCs on the benchmark Saudi Arabia-to-Japan voyage are
 earning  $9,765 daily, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange today. That’s down 70 percent from Jan. 20, the last
day before Chinese markets closed for a week for the New Year.  “Overcapacity continues to impact the market negatively,”
Oslo-based investment bank Pareto Securities AS said in an e-
mailed report today.  The exchange’s assessments of VLCC returns don’t reflect
speed cuts aimed at reducing fuel costs, vessel owners’ main
expense. Owners can curb those expenses, boosting returns, by
slowing ships on return journeys after unloading of cargoes.  The price of bunker fuel, vessel owners’ main expense,
declined 0.2 percent to $716.80 a metric ton, data compiled by
Bloomberg from 25 ports worldwide showed.  Charter rates  for VLCCs, each able to haul 2 million
barrels of crude, on the benchmark route gained 2.7 percent to
50.72 Worldscale points today.  More Than 320,000 Routes  The points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or flat
rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in London to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The Baltic Dirty Tanker Index, a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, gained
0.3 percent to 791.  China is the world’s second-biggest consumer of crude oil
after the U.S.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in  London  at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  