-- CVR Energy Should Put Itself Up for Sale, Icahn Tells CEO
-- B y   B r a d l e y   O l s o n
-- 2012-02-14T22:35:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/cvr-energy-should-put-itself-up-for-sale-icahn-tells-ceo-2-.html
CVR Energy Inc. (CVI) , the oil-refining
company that was taken public in 2007 by  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS) , should put itself up for sale to profit from higher
gasoline prices, billionaire investor  Carl Icahn  said.  Icahn, CVR’s largest shareholder, told Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer Jack Lipinski there are three to four
potential buyers, according to a filing today with the U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) ,  Tesoro
Corp. (TSO) ,  Marathon Petroleum Corp (MPC) . and  HollyFrontier Corp (HFC) . may be
interested, Eliecer Palacios, an energy sector specialist with
Maxim Group LLC, said in a telephone interview.  CVR, based in  Sugar Land ,  Texas , may sell for as much as
$2.94 billion, a 25 percent premium over yesterday’s close, Sam Margolin, an analyst with Global Hunter Securities LLC in  New
York , said in a telephone interview today. The refineries are
worth more because they can access cheaper crude being produced
from shale rock formations in emerging U.S. oil fields, he said.  “The refineries are so advantaged, there would definitely
be private buyers who would put up more of a premium than the
public markets,” said Margolin, who rates CVR a “buy” and
doesn’t own shares.  Spokesmen for Valero, HollyFrontier and Marathon declined
to comment. Tesoro didn’t immediately respond to a telephone
message.  CVR declined to comment on a potential sale. The company
announced a plan yesterday to institute a dividend. The company
and its board “remain focused on delivering further value to
our shareholders in the future,”  Steve Eames , a spokesman for
the company, said in a telephone interview.  Efficient System  Icahn, known for investing in companies and agitating for
strategic changes with management, holds a 14.5 percent stake in
the company.  The company owns refineries in Coffeyville, Kansas, and
Wynnewood,  Oklahoma , capable of processing a combined 185,000
barrels a day. It also owns a majority interest in CVR Partners
LP, which produces fertilizer.  CVR  rose  2.5 percent to $27.62 at the close in New York.
The company has gained 24 percent since Icahn’s stake was
revealed last month. That rally may be a challenge for potential
buyers, Palacios said.  Goldman Sachs and buyout firm Kelso & Co. bought CVR’s
 Kansas  assets from Pegasus Capital Advisors LP in 2005, and took
it public two years later. The Kansas plant and fertilizer mill
was previously owned by Farmland Industries Inc., which filed
for  bankruptcy protection  in May 2002.  Refining Margins  The  margin  between oil costs and the price at which
refiners like CVR sell fuel has risen 65 percent this year to
$27.08, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The so-called
“crack spread” has widened as surging oil production in new
shale fields has depressed prices relative to the global crude
benchmark.  CVR’s shares don’t reflect “current high crack spreads,”
Icahn told Lipinski yesterday, according to the filing. Icahn
said shareholders would be better served by a sale.  The company’s relatively small size exposes shareholders to
too much risk from volatile  oil prices , Icahn said. A bigger
company would be better positioned to use financial contracts to
lock in commodity prices, he said.  CVR fell to a low of $17 on Nov. 25 as the  gap  between
crude costs and fuel prices narrowed to $13.11, nearly a third
of the $35.07 high it reached on Oct. 14, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Shareholder Rights  Yesterday, the company announced its first quarterly
dividend and said it planned to sell a portion of its investment
in CVR Partners.  Shareholders may get as much as $1.80 a share from the CVR
Partners sale, Chi Chow, a Denver-based analyst with Macquarie
Group Ltd., said in a note yesterday.  “CVR Energy’s board has evaluated various financial and
structural alternatives and believes these actions offer the
best opportunity to enhance returns for shareholders in a
reasonable time frame with minimal execution risk or structural
impediments,” the company said in a statement yesterday.  CVR adopted a shareholder rights plan when Icahn’s stake
was initially disclosed last month, saying its board would
“protect against inadequate or coercive takeover attempts, or
other tactics that might be used to gain control of the
company.”  The provision, known as a poison pill, allows other holders
to buy shares at a discount if an entity acquires more than 15
percent of the company without board approval.  Icahn also said he’s weighing whether to nominate his own
candidates for the board by the Feb. 17 deadline.  CVR has hired Goldman Sachs and the New York law firm
Wachtell Lipton Rosen & Katz as advisers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bradley Olson in Houston at 
 bradleyolson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  