-- Czechs Shield Bonds From Euro Contagion With Debt Aversion
-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 2012-02-15T09:50:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/czechs-shield-bonds-from-euro-contagion-with-aversion-for-debt.html
Sylvie Pekarova, a 33-year-old
pharmaceutical researcher in Prague, has no debt. She doesn’t
even own a  credit card .  Consumers like Pekarova have helped the  Czech Republic 
avoid the fate of the euro region, which is grappling with a
debt crisis now into its third year. With private borrowing at
half the euro region’s average, the country now boasts  interest
rates  that are lower than 10 of the currency-bloc’s 17 members.
That’s helping the government’s drive to sell benchmark
Eurobonds, which started this week.  “It’s this feeling that if something goes wrong, you don’t
want to be stuck with debts you don’t know how to pay back,”
Pekarova, who lives in a rented apartment in central Prague,
said in an interview. “Borrowing money for things like going on
a holiday doesn’t make sense.”  Debt aversion in the central European nation has smoothed
the acceptance of government austerity at a time when
governments from  Athens  to  Madrid  are trying to persuade their
voters to embrace more spending cuts. As German  Chancellor
Angela Merkel  urges southern  Europe  to cut debt and spending,
Czech borrowing costs are now the lowest among the European
Union’s ex-communist states and close to those in  Belgium , a
higher-rated euro member.  The Czechs began meetings with bond investors Feb. 13,
before a planned sale of a benchmark Eurobond worth as much as 2
billion euro, the first time the country would tap international
markets since September 2010. With yields near record-lows,
Deputy Finance Minister Jan Gregor said last month he expects
the deficit cuts to secure better terms in the sale than others
in the region.  ‘Not Afraid’  The yield on the Czech Eurobond maturing in 2021 fell to a
three-month low of 3.591 percent yesterday, 1.85 percentage
points above the German bund with similar maturity. Yield rose
to 3.599 percent as of 10:02 a.m. in  Prague  today, staying near
its Sept. 30 all-time low of 3.479 percent. The yield on
Eurobonds issued by  Poland , the EU’s largest eastern economy,
was 4.820 percent. Belgium, a euro-region member, returned 3.458
percent on similar debt.  Emboldened by an AA-  credit rating  at Standard and Poor’s,
the fourth-highest investment grade and better than half of the
euro region’s members, the Czech Republic was the only eastern
member to reject the EU’s fiscal compact last month. Prime
Minister Petr Necas said he’s “not afraid of isolation” over
the move.  ‘Right Response’  Stimulating the economy with a larger budget  deficit  during
the 2009 global credit crunch was “absolutely the right
response to the crisis,” Dmitri Barinov, who helps manage about
$2.3 billion in emerging European debt at Union Investment
Privatfonds in  Frankfurt , said in e-mailed answers to questions
on Feb. 13. “Then in 2011, they managed to decrease deficit to
around 4 percent, which is reliable.”  Even with a credit boom after the country entered the EU
eight years ago, Czech banks hold the most savings relative to
debt among the bloc’s eastern members. Deposits are 37 percent
higher than loans, compared with 15 percent in neighboring
 Slovakia , a euro member, central bank data show. Savings were 7
percent less than loans in Poland, 27 percent lower in Hungary
and 48 percent short in  Latvia .  This offers protection for Czech banks against a funding
freeze from their western owners, according to  UniCredit SpA. (UCG) 
Lenders, including Erste Group Bank AG and  Societe Generale SA (GLE) ,
which control about three quarters of the region’s banking
industry, are selling assets and raising capital to meet more
stringent capital and liquidity requirements, curtailing credit
to households and businesses in the east.  ‘Safest Country’  “In a world where investors increasingly focus on bank
deleveraging, we think the Czech Republic would actually come as
the safest country in the region -- but also probably in the
whole EU,”  Gyula Toth , a Vienna-based strategist at UniCredit,
said in a Jan. 20 report. “This is due to the fact that its
banking sector is operating with the lowest level of leverage.”  Household  debt in the Czech Republic was 54 percent of
income in 2010, according to data compiled by Eurostat, the EU’s
statistics institution. That compares with gross debt-to-income
ratio, a gauge of indebtedness in relation to the ability to pay
back debt, of 99 percent in the 17-nation euro region.  Historical Phenomenon  Czech caution with balancing savings and debt is similar to
neighboring regions such as  Austria , central bank Vice-Governor
Mojmir Hampl said in a Feb. 7 interview. Much of the country was
under the control of Hapsburg rulers from the 16th century,
becoming part of the Austrian Empire in the 19th century.  “The tendency to save more than take loans is a historical
phenomenon in the Czech Republic, which can be traced as far
back as the data are available, to the 19th or the end of 18th
century,” Hampl said.  The Czechs’ penchant for saving over taking debt has also
been encouraged by inflation slowing more quickly than in other
former communist countries during the transition from the
centrally-planned economies after 1989, Hampl said.    Inflation
slowed to less than 10 percent in 1994 and price growth has
since stabilized below that mark, with the exception of 1998.
Consumer price prices in  Hungary  rose faster than 10 percent
every year until 2001.  Aversion to debt is also a central theme in Necas’ program.
His 18-month-old government has cut state subsidies, reduced
public wages, raised the value-added tax and increased the
 retirement age  to overhaul public finances and slow an increase
in government  debt , which, at 38 percent of gross domestic
product in 2010, was less than half of the EU average.  The coalition Cabinet plans to cut the public-finance
 shortfall  to less than the EU’s limit of 3 percent of GDP by
2013, even as worsening economic outlook threatens to curb
budget revenue. It wants balanced public finances by 2016.
Pekarova, speaking at an old mill turned bar near the Prague
Castle, approves of thrift.  “I don’t want to be accumulating debt,” she said. “I
want everything I buy to be paid for by what I earn.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at 
 placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  