-- Daimler Sells Its First Benchmark Bonds in Euros This Year
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-14T16:03:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/daimler-said-to-sell-bonds-in-euros-due-may-2015.html
Daimler AG (DAI) , the maker of Mercedes-
Benz cars, raised 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) from its first
benchmark-sized bonds in euros this year as borrowing costs for
European carmakers fall to the lowest in three months.  The bonds due 2015 were priced to yield 63 basis points
more than the benchmark swap rate, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That compares with 106 basis points for Bank of
America Merrill Lynch’s Euro Automotive index, which tracks
carmakers’ securities with an average maturity of three years.
The index spread was 138 at the start of the year.  “The spread premium is very low and reflects the pricing
power prime issuers with solid fundamentals like Daimler
currently have,” said Felix Freund, a portfolio manager at
Union Investment GmbH in  Frankfurt , which oversees 170 billion
euros of securities.  Daimler, also  Europe ’s biggest  truck producer , has forecast
higher 2012 profit than analysts predicted, propelled by record
demand for Mercedes cars. The Stuttgart-based company said it
aims to retake the luxury-car lead from Bayerische Motoren Werke
AG after slipping to third behind Volkswagen AG’s Audi in 2011.  “We decided to place this offer due to the currently very
favorable overall market conditions,” Daimler spokesman Florian Martens said in an e-mail. The proceeds will be used for general
corporate purposes, he said.  Daimler has 25 billion euros of  bonds outstanding  with 3
billion euros coming due this year, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. The carmaker is ranked A3 by Moody’s Investors
Service and an equivalent A- at  Fitch Ratings .  Standard & Poor’s 
grades it one level lower at BBB+.  Deutsche Bank AG, LBBW and  Banco Santander SA (SAN)  managed the
sale of the new bonds. The offering is the company’s first
benchmark deal in euros since Oct. 17, when it raised 750
million euros from floating-rate notes due 2013.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in London at 
 hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Armstrong at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  