-- Dubai Shares Rally to 6-Month High on Dividend Bets; Emaar Rises
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-02-14T12:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/dubai-shares-rally-to-7-month-high-on-dividend-bets-emaar-deyaar-advance.html
Dubai’s benchmark stock index
advanced to the highest level in more than six months on
investor speculation corporate earnings may beat analysts’
estimates, spurring bigger dividend payouts.  Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR) , the builder of the world’s tallest
skyscraper, climbed to the highest level since Aug. 4 before
reporting fourth-quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates.
 Deyaar Development PJSC (DEYAAR) , a real-estate developer, jumped 7.3
percent. The  DFM General Index (DFMGI)  climbed 1.2 percent to 1,539.23,
the highest since Aug. 4, at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. In Abu
Dhabi,  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  rose after the company bailed out
by the emirate recommended a cash dividend of 5 fils a share.  Aldar’s dividend plan helped boost investor sentiment for
property developers in the  United Arab Emirates , said Tariq Qaqish, deputy head of asset management at Dubai-based Al Mal
Capital. “It was a big surprise for a company which was bailed
out by Abu Dhabi government and suffered from serious negative
 cash flow  to distribute cash dividends,” Qaqish said.  Emaar last year agreed to pay the first cash dividend since
2008, bowing to the demands of shareholders during a general
assembly meeting. Today’s earnings statement didn’t mention a
dividend plan. Emaar, the company with the biggest weighting on
Dubai’s index, said after markets closed profit more than
doubled to 716 million dirhams ($195 million). The  average
estimate  of five analysts was for 460 million dirhams, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Sorouh Soars  Emaar rose 1.4 percent to 2.98 dirhams. Deyaar jumped to
29.3 fils, the highest since July 14. There are 100 fils to the
dirham. Aldar surged 5.1 percent to 1.04 dirhams, helping push
the ADX Real Estate Index up 5.6 percent. The ADX General Index
climbed 1 percent.  Sorouh Real Estate PJSC,  Abu Dhabi ’s second-biggest
property developer by market value, advanced 7.5 percent. The
company, which may report financial results tomorrow, is likely
to say fourth-quarter profit was 108 million dirhams, according
to the  average estimate of six analysts  compiled by Bloomberg.
It posted a loss in the year-earlier period.  Kuwait’s measure climbed 1.1 percent and Oman’s MSM30 Index
rose 0.3 percent.  Saudi Arabia ’s Tadawul All Share Index fell
0.2 percent and Bahrain’s BB All Share Index decreased less than
0.1 percent.  The  Bloomberg GCC 200 Index , which tracks the biggest 200
companies in the six-member Gulf Cooperation Council, dropped
0.1 percent.  Qatar’s stock market is closed for a national holiday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  