-- Eastern Europe Growth Probably Slowed Last Quarter on Credit-Crunch Threat
-- B y   A g n e s   L o v a s z
-- 2012-02-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/eastern-europe-growth-probably-slowed-last-quarter-on-credit-crunch-threat.html
Eastern European countries will
probably report slowing economic growth today as concern that
bank funding to the region will dry up dents confidence and the
euro-region debt crisis curbs exports.  Fourth-quarter growth in the  Czech Republic  and Slovakia
was the weakest since the 2009 recession compared with the year-
earlier period, while Hungary expanded at the slowest pace since
January-March 2010, three Bloomberg surveys show. Bulgaria will
report the weakest growth in six quarters, while  Romania ’s
economy also lost steam, according to separate surveys.  Poland 
reports data for the quarter March 1.  The euro region’s debt crisis has infected eastern  Europe ,
which gets financing from banks such as UniCredit SpA and relies
on western Europe to buy products including cars from Volkswagen
AG’s Czech-based unit, Skoda Auto. While the  European Central
Bank ’s 489 billion euros ($641 billion) of three-year loans have
eased concerns of a credit squeeze, dangers remain.  “We’re seeing tentative signs of a pickup in  Germany  but
it’s still early days,” William Jackson, an emerging-markets
economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in  London , said Feb. 13 by
phone. “I wouldn’t be surprised to see a fresh spike in
investor risk aversion, potentially causing more difficulties
for the economies in emerging Europe.”  Bonds, Currencies Rebound  Eastern European bonds and currencies have recovered in
recent weeks on expectations the decline in euro-region growth
will be less severe and after the U.S. Federal Reserve extended
its pledge to keep  interest rates  near zero through at least
late-2014, Magdalena Polan, senior European economist at Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., wrote in a Feb. 10 research note.  The ECB’s longer-term refinancing operation in December
improved funding conditions for western European lenders, which
control about three-quarters of their eastern neighbors’ banking
industry, alleviating investor concern that tighter capital
rules will sap cross-border credit flows, Polan wrote.  Hungary’s forint is the best-performing currency this year,
rising 9.8 percent against the dollar and the Polish zloty is
the fifth-best performer with an 8.4 percent appreciation,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The forint was the second worst-performer in the second
half of last year after the Belarusian ruble, declining 24
percent, while the zloty declined 19.5 percent, the fifth most.
European banks must have core capital reserves of 9 percent
after writing down their holdings of sovereign debt by the end
of June, European Union leaders decided in October. That may
require an additional 115 billion euros ($149 billion) of
capital, according to the European Banking Association.  ‘Positive Signs’  “The ECB’s LTRO auctions reduced the refinancing risk for
euro-zone sovereigns and banks and that takes away a lot of
potential credit crunch,”  Raffaella Tenconi , an emerging-market
economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch in London, said in a
Feb. 13 phone interview. “There are positive signs but whether
they’ll remain there for long enough remains to be seen.”  Central and eastern Europe’s economic outlook improved in
January on optimism about the euro area, the  ZEW Center for
European Economic Research  and  Erste Group Bank AG (EBS)  said Jan. 19.
The economic-sentiment indicator, a measure of investor
confidence in the region, rose 14.8 points to minus 26.6 points,
the ZEW said.  An index of investor and analyst expectations for Germany
rose to 5.4 this month from minus 21.6 in January, the ZEW said
yesterday. Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke on Feb. 2 highlighted
“signs of improvement” in the world’s biggest economy. A
Chinese manufacturing index beat economist estimates in January
with a reading of 50.5, a Feb. 1 government report showed,
adding to speculation the world economy is recovering.  Slower Growth  Poland’s 2011  gross domestic product  rose 4.3 percent from
a year earlier, compared with a revised 3.9 percent in 2010, the
government said Jan. 27. That implies fourth-quarter growth of
3.8 percent, the slowest pace in six quarters, according to
Jackson of  Capital Economics .  The Czech economy expanded 0.7 percent from a year earlier
in that quarter, slowing from 1.2 percent in the previous three
months, while Hungarian  output  grew 0.9 percent, down from 1.4
percent, two surveys predicted.  Slovak GDP rose 2.1 percent in the October-December period,
down from 3 percent in the previous quarter, while Bulgaria’s
economic growth decelerated to 1.3 percent from 1.6 percent and
Romania’s slowed to 2.6 percent from 4.4 percent, according to
three separate surveys.  Because of its dependence on the euro region, eastern
Europe’s growth lags behind  Asia  and  Latin America , the two
developing regions it competes with for export markets and
investments,  Tatha Ghose , senior emerging-market economist at
Commerzbank AG in London, said Feb. 13 by phone.  “The U.S. and  China  are the driving force behind the
global cycle but for  emerging markets  in Europe the EU growth
outlook has a big impact,” he said. “The trend growth rate of
the region is much lower than Asia, Latin America or even the
Commonwealth of Independent States.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Agnes Lovasz in London at 
 alovasz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  