-- Lebanese Rally to Mark Seventh Anniversary of Hariri Killing
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-02-14T16:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/lebanese-rally-to-mark-seventh-anniversary-of-hariri-killing.html
Thousands of Lebanese rallied in
Beirut on the seventh anniversary of former Prime Minister  Rafiq Hariri ’s killing and backed calls for the overthrow of Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad.  “I salute you, Homs and Daraa,” said Samir Geagea, head
of the Christian Lebanese Forces, in reference to two cities
that have been central to the 11-month revolt against Assad.
Faris Soueid, another Christian politician, read a statement
from the opposition Syrian National Council that predicted the
collapse of the Syrian government and better relations between
the two neighboring countries. Amin Gemayel, Lebanon’s former
president, said “any party that obstructs these revolutions
will be held responsible in history.”  Many Lebanese blamed  Syria  for Hariri’s killing, leading to
street protests that forced an end to Syria’s military
occupation of Lebanon.  “The Syrian people will triumph,”  Saad Hariri , the former
premier’s son, told supporters via a video link from Paris,
after a skiing injury last month prevented him from attending.
“The Syrian regime will inevitably fall,” he said, adding,
“we are living a moment of historic transition from one era to
another.”  Saad Hariri’s government was toppled in January last year
when the Shiite Muslim Hezbollah movement and its allies quit
the Cabinet in a dispute over the United Nations investigation
into Rafiq Hariri’s killing.  Hezbollah says the probe was biased against it and its
backer, Syria. An indictment filed by the tribunal last year
named four people affiliated with Hezbollah as being involved.
The group, like Syria, has denied killing Hariri.  “I call on Hezbollah’s leadership to adopt a new approach
in dealing with the Special Tribunal because insisting on
protecting the accused will not cancel the indictments,” Hariri
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in  Beirut , Lebanon, at   mderhally@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 