-- Heebner Buys Philip Morris, Bank of America, Sells Apple Shares
-- B y   I n y o u n g   H w a n g
-- 2012-02-14T16:28:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/heebner-buys-philip-morris-bank-of-america-sells-apple-shares.html
Kenneth Heebner, who ran one of the
top-performing U.S. stock mutual funds during the past decade,
bought shares of  Philip Morris International Inc. (PM)  and  Bank of
America Corp. (BAC) , while selling  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  in the fourth quarter.  Capital Growth Management LP purchased 1.73 million shares
of Philip Morris, the world’s largest publicly traded tobacco
manufacturer, during the three-month period that ended Dec. 31,
according to a filing with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission today. The Boston-based  money manager  bought 22.1
million shares of Bank of America, the second-largest  U.S. bank 
by assets. The firm sold all 406,000 shares of Apple Inc., the
world’s largest technology company, during the fourth quarter.  Heebner’s  CGM Focus Fund (CGMFX)  has beaten 99 percent of peers in
2012. The fund returned 16 percent annually in the decade ended
in January 2011 for the best record among more than 3,500
diversified U.S. stock funds, according to data compiled by
Morningstar Inc. It then lost 15 percent in the past year, data
compiled by Bloomberg show. His performance has stalled in the
past five years, trailing 92 percent of peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Philip Morris  of  New York  has since risen to the highest
level since its spinoff from Altria Group Inc., climbing to
$81.61 a share yesterday. Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank
of America has surged 43 percent in 2012,  the fifth-biggest gain 
in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, after posting the fourth-
largest loss last year and falling to an almost three-year low
in December. Apple surged to a record $502.60 yesterday and is
set to have its  best quarter  since 2009.  Financial-Company Holdings  The Capital Growth filing showed the firm increased its
holdings of  financial companies  to 49 percent of assets, up 7.2
percentage points from the third quarter, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The biggest stakes in that industry by
market value were in  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Simon Property Group Inc. (SPG) 
and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , the document showed.  Consumer discretionary stocks were the second-biggest group
in the firm’s portfolio, accounting for 17 percent of the fund.
That’s down 10 percentage points from the prior period.
 Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F)  were the largest holdings
in the group. Heebner sold all shares of  Tiffany & Co. , the
world’s second-largest luxury jewelry retailer, clothing
retailer Ralph Lauren Corp. and  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , the world’s
largest Internet retailer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Inyoung Hwang in New York at 
 ihwang7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  