-- Elpida Sees ‘Uncertainty’ Over Whether Chipmaker Will Remain in Business
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-14T10:39:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/elpida-sees-uncertainty-over-whether-chipmaker-will-remain-in-business.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) , the Japanese
chipmaker facing an April deadline to repay debts, said it sees
“uncertainty” over remaining in business because it still
doesn’t have the necessary financing.  Elpida hasn’t been able to reach a deal with the trade
ministry, the  Development Bank of Japan  and its main lenders,
the Tokyo-based company said in a statement today. Elpida’s
ability to repay 92 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in bonds and
loans is made more difficult by plunging chip prices and five
straight quarters of losses.  The comments reverse a Feb. 2 announcement from the  Apple
Inc. (AAPL)  supplier that it expected to secure financing by March 31.
 Japan ’s largest maker of dynamic random access memory, the most
common chip in computers, needs government backing to stay in
business as  South Korea ’s Samsung Electronics Co. profitably
diversified while chip prices collapsed, analysts said.  “The government already helped them in the past, so it’s
important for them to exit when the company is still alive,”
said Yoshihiro Nakatani, a senior  fund manager  at Asahi Life
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “I think the support will
continue.”  Samsung Diversifies  The shares rose 0.8 percent to 374 yen in Tokyo today,
before the announcement. The company lost 62 percent of its
market value last year, extending a 37 percent slump in 2010.  “Elpida has not made as much progress as initially
envisioned in discussions with the relevant parties,” the
company said today. “Therefore, material uncertainty about its
assumed going concern is found.”  Elpida’s slump indicates the difficulty Japanese companies
have in competing with Samsung, which had 7.34 trillion won
($6.5 billion) in operating profit from selling chips last year.
Chip prices had become as cheap as a “rice ball,” Elpida Chief
Executive Officer Yukio Sakamoto said last year.  Samsung boosted its profits by producing specialty chips
for smartphones, tablet computers and servers.  Elpida is also discussing advance payments and capital
investments with customers, it said last month. The chipmaker’s
net loss for the three months ended Dec. 31 was 42.1 billion yen
as demand for personal computers slumped and the yen
strengthened, it said Feb. 2.  DRAM Losses  “The negotiations must have been rough sailing,”  Mitsuo Shimizu , a Tokyo-based analyst at Cosmo Securities Co., said by
phone.  The company got 140 billion yen in financial aid and loans
from the government and banks in 2009 after falling chip prices
caused it to post a record loss.  “Elpida’s future is totally dependent on the government’s
decisions,” said Young Park, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Woori
Investment & Securities Co.  The company can’t survive on its own, and the Japanese
government may be willing to extend support to keep DRAM
production within the country, he said. Japanese media have
reported that Elpida may tie up with  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  and
 Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)   Elpida, Hynix and other makers of DRAM chips lost a
combined $14 billion in the past three years, according to
Bloomberg calculations. That comes after the $37 billion that
researcher DRAMeXchange estimates they spent building factories
in a bet on continued growth in the industry.  Prices Plunge  DRAM prices plunged to a record low last year after PC
shipments missed analyst forecasts and sales of Apple’s iPad
surged. As the faltering global economy and floods in Thailand
curb PC production, some DRAM manufacturers may not have enough
money to mimic Samsung’s diversification, analysts said.  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of NEC Corp.’s
and Hitachi Ltd.’s memory businesses. Fujitsu Ltd. abandoned the
business that year, and Toshiba Corp. announced its withdrawal
in 2001 to focus more on making NAND flash memory chips, which
are used in tablet computers and smartphones.  Elpida plans to shift some domestic production to its
Rexchip Electronics Corp. unit in  Taiwan  to reduce its
vulnerability to a stronger yen, it said in September. The
rising Japanese currency, which climbed to a postwar high of
75.35 against the  U.S. dollar  on Oct. 31, is eroding Elpida’s
repatriated earnings from overseas sales.  Samsung controlled 45 percent of the DRAM market by value
in the third quarter, according to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS
Inc.’s iSuppli. Hynix held a 22 percent share, followed by
Elpida’s 12 percent.  Micron had the same share as Elpida, with $2 million less
in revenue, and Nanya had a 3.6 percent share, according to
iSuppli.  “Elpida is really struggling and there are no mergers and
acquisitions possibilities available,” said Ben Yeh, who rates
Nanya “neutral” at KGI Securities Co. in Taipei and doesn’t
directly cover Elpida.  “I am confident the Japanese government will help because
they have an incentive to do so now that the worst has passed
and the industry and prices are picking up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in  Tokyo  at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  