-- Elpida Shares, Bonds Slump After Financing Warning: Tokyo Mover
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a
-- 2012-02-15T11:23:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/elpida-sees-uncertainty-about-survival-amid-debt-discussions.html
Elpida Memory Inc. (6665)  fell 14 percent
in  Tokyo  trading and its convertible bonds had a record drop
after the chipmaker said there is “uncertainty” over its
viability because it lacks financing for debt due in April.  Shares declined to 320 yen on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the
biggest drop since September 2009. Elpida’s 0.7 percent August
2016 convertible bonds plunged to 64 yen per 100 face value, to
yield 22.7 percent in Tokyo today, according to prices from
 Barclays Capital .  Elpida hasn’t been able to reach a deal with  Japan ’s trade
ministry, the  Development Bank of Japan  and its main lenders,
the Tokyo-based company said in a statement yesterday. Elpida’s
ability to repay 92 billion yen ($1.2 billion) in bonds and
loans by April is made more difficult by plunging  chip prices .
South Korean competitors  Samsung (005930)  Electronics Co. and Hynix
Semiconductor Inc. both rose in Seoul trading today.  “The stock will probably remain volatile as the concern
over Elpida and its lenders’ agreement lingers,” said Yuichi Ishida, a Tokyo-based analyst at Mizuho Investors Securities Co.
who has a “neutral plus” rating on Elpida. “Investors will
probably continue to be nervous about those headlines.”  Elpida’s 0.5 percent October 2015 convertible notes slumped
to 70 per 100 face value, at 27.4 percent on a yield-to-worst
basis, Barclays Capital prices show. Yield-to-worst takes into
account the risk that the debt will be redeemed early.  Debt Outstanding  Elpida has the equivalent of $4.16 billion of bonds and
loans outstanding, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.
Japan Credit Rating Agency, the only risk assessor to grade
Elpida, cut its rating on the chipmaker to BBB-, the lowest
investment level, from BBB after yesterday’s announcement.  Elpida’s comments reversed a Feb. 2 announcement from the
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  supplier that it expected to secure financing by
March 31.  Japan’s largest maker of dynamic random access memory, the
most common chip in computers, needs government backing to stay
in business after five straight quarters of  losses , analysts
said. The Japanese company lost  62 percent  of its market value
last year, extending a 37 percent slump in 2010.  “Elpida has not made as much progress as initially
envisioned in discussions with the relevant parties,” the
company said yesterday. “Therefore, material uncertainty about
its assumed going concern is found.”  Repayment Deadline  The company’s cash and savings fell to about 50 billion yen
to 60 billion yen in cash and savings as of Feb. 2, from 97.4
billion yen in December, Chief Executive Officer Yukio Sakamoto
said. Elpida redeemed 30 billion yen in bonds on Jan. 24.  Elpida may be able to collect about 50 billion yen through
support from customers, he said Feb. 2. The company faces a
deadline to redeem 15 billion yen in bonds on March 22 and repay
about 77 billion yen in loans from lenders on April 2, according
to its filings.  “The government already helped them in the past, so it’s
important for them to exit when the company is still alive,”
said Yoshihiro Nakatani, a senior  fund manager  at Asahi Life
Asset Management Co. in Tokyo. “I think the support will
continue.”  Elpida’s slump indicates the difficulty Japanese companies
have in competing with Samsung, which had 7.34 trillion won
($6.5 billion) in operating profit from selling chips last year.
Chip prices had become as cheap as a “rice ball,” Sakamoto
said last year.  Samsung, Hynix  “The chip industry is in trouble,” said Edwin Merner,
president of Tokyo-based Atlantis Investment Research, which
manages $300 million. “Most commodity-type chip companies are
losing money and the business continues to be capital
intensive.”  Samsung boosted its profits by producing specialty chips
for smartphones, tablet computers and servers. The Suwon, South
Korea-based company climbed 5.1 percent today in Seoul trading
to 1,135,000 won.  Hynix (000660)  rose 5.3 percent to 29,000 won, on the Korea Exchange,
the highest level since May 31.  Elpida is also discussing advance payments and capital
investments with  customers , it said last month. The chipmaker’s
 net loss  for the three months ended Dec. 31 was 42.1 billion yen
as demand for personal computers slumped and the yen
strengthened, it said Feb. 2.  DRAM Losses  The company got 140 billion yen in financial aid and loans
from the government and banks in 2009 after falling chip prices
caused it to post a record loss.  “Elpida’s future is totally dependent on the government’s
decisions,” said Young Park, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Woori
Investment & Securities Co.  The company can’t survive on its own, and the Japanese
government may be willing to extend support to keep DRAM
production within the country, he said. Japanese media have
reported that Elpida may tie up with  Micron Technology Inc. (MU)  and
 Nanya Technology Corp. (2408)   Elpida, Hynix and other makers of DRAM chips lost a
combined $14 billion in the past three years, according to
Bloomberg calculations. That comes after the $37 billion that
researcher DRAMeXchange estimates they spent building factories
in a bet on continued growth in the industry.  The price of the benchmark DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM, which
plunged to a record low of 71 cents in November, fell 61 percent
to 88 cents in the past year amid slowing personal-computer
sales, according to Taiwan-based Dramexchange,  Asia ’s biggest
spot market for the chips.  Strong Yen  As the faltering global economy and floods in Thailand curb
PC production, some DRAM manufacturers may not have enough money
to mimic Samsung’s diversification, analysts said.  Elpida was formed through the 1999 merger of NEC Corp.’s
and Hitachi Ltd.’s memory businesses. Fujitsu Ltd. abandoned the
business that year, and Toshiba Corp. announced its withdrawal
in 2001 to focus more on making NAND flash memory chips, which
are used in tablet computers and smartphones.  Elpida plans to shift some domestic production to its
Rexchip Electronics Corp. unit in  Taiwan  to reduce its
vulnerability to a stronger yen, it said in September. The
rising Japanese currency, which climbed to a postwar high of
75.35 against the  U.S. dollar  on Oct. 31, is eroding Elpida’s
repatriated earnings from overseas sales.  Samsung controlled 45 percent of the DRAM market by value
in the third quarter, according to Englewood, Colorado-based IHS
Inc.’s iSuppli. Hynix held a 22 percent share, followed by
Elpida’s 12 percent.  Micron had the same share as Elpida, with $2 million less
in revenue, and Nanya had a 3.6 percent share, according to
iSuppli.  “Elpida is really struggling and there are no mergers and
acquisitions possibilities available,” said Ben Yeh, who rates
Nanya “neutral” at KGI Securities Co. in Taipei and doesn’t
directly cover Elpida.  “I am confident the Japanese government will help because
they have an incentive to do so now that the worst has passed
and the industry and prices are picking up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  