-- Emaar Rises to Six-Month High on Dividend Bets: Dubai Mover
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-02-14T12:20:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/emaar-climbs-to-six-month-high-as-aldar-fuels-dividend-bets-dubai-mover.html
Emaar Properties PJSC (EMAAR)  advanced to
the highest level in more than six months amid investors’ bets
the builder of the world’s tallest tower may follow Abu Dhabi-
based  Aldar Properties PJSC (ALDAR)  in paying a dividend.  The shares rallied as much as 2.7 percent to 3.02 dirhams
before paring gains to 2.98 dirhams, the highest since Aug. 4,
at the 2 p.m. close in Dubai. The benchmark  DFM General Index (DFMGI) 
climbed 1.2 percent. Emaar, which reported a more than doubling
in fourth-quarter profit after trading hours, has the biggest
weighting on the index.  Aldar, the developer bailed out twice by the Abu Dhabi
government last year, fueled speculation on Emaar’s dividend
after it recommended a 2011 dividend of 5 fils a share, said
 Haissam Arabi , Dubai-based chief executive officer at Gulfmena
Investments. Emaar’s earnings statement didn’t mention a
dividend recommendation.  “Even a company that’s supposed to be having difficulties
managed to pay dividends, so that sets the bar for all other
companies, Emaar in particular,” he said. “They have to do
better than that because Emaar is not a troubled company.”  Emaar, which last year agreed to pay its first  cash
dividend  since 2008 bowing to shareholder demands, said
quarterly net income surged to 716 million dirhams ($195
million). The average estimate of five analysts was for a profit
of 460 million dirhams, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aldar reported a 2011 profit of 642.5 million dirhams after
a year-earlier loss of 12.7 billion dirhams as it sold more land
and properties to the state. The average estimate of eight
analysts was for a profit of 494 million dirhams, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Aldar shares surged 5.1 percent to 1.04 dirhams, the
highest level since Nov. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  