-- Emerging-Market Stocks Decline on Europe Debt Concern After Moody’s Cuts
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2012-02-14T06:50:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/emerging-market-stocks-decline-on-europe-debt-concern-after-moody-s-cuts.html
Emerging-market stocks fell, led by
energy producers and industrial companies, after Moody’s
Investors Service cut the debt ratings of six European nations.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.3 percent to
1,049.99 at 1:42 p.m. Hong Kong time. The Shanghai Composite
Index dropped 0.5 percent. Sri Lanka’s Colombo All-Share Index
plunged 3.4 percent, set for its lowest level since August 2010.
The BSE  India  Sensitive Index, or Sensex, added 0.2 percent as
the nation’s inflation rate slowed more than expected.  The U.K. and  France  may be stripped of their top Aaa
ratings, Moody’s said as it reduced the debt rankings of
countries including Italy, Spain and Portugal on concern
economic weakness may threaten austerity programs and reforms.
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings also cut European nation
debt ratings in the past two months.  “Moody’s is just playing catch-up to the other two  ratings
agencies ,” Raymond Tang, who manages 29 billion ringgit ($9.5
billion) as chief investment officer at CIMB-Principal Asset
Management Bhd., said in a telephone interview in  Kuala Lumpur 
today. “If there is no major shock, emerging markets will do
better this year than last year.”  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 15 percent this
year, following a 20 percent rout in 2011. The gauge’s advance
has outpaced an 7.9 percent increase by the  MSCI World (MXWO)  Index of
developed nations. The emerging-markets index is valued at 10.5
times estimated profit, compared with MSCI World’s multiple of
12.7 times, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Oil Producers  CNOOC Ltd.,  China ’s biggest offshore energy producer,
dropped the most in a month. SK Innovation Co., South Korea’s
biggest oil refiner by market value, lost 2.1 percent.  Oil futures declined as much as 0.5 percent from a five-
month high. Euro-area finance chiefs convene tomorrow for a
meeting on financial aid for  Greece , while a U.S. Energy
Department report may show stockpiles climbed a fourth week,
according to a Bloomberg News survey of analysts.  Zoomlion Heavy Industry Science & Technology Co., the
Chinese maker of cranes and road machinery, sank 3.5 percent in
 Hong Kong  after Credit Suisse Group AG advised in a note today
taking profit in the stock following a more than 30 percent
rally this year.  The Colombo All-Share Index has slumped 17 percent this
year, the most among 93 major benchmark gauges tracked by
Bloomberg. Stocks and the rupee have fallen as the government
scrapped a currency trading band to help conserve foreign-
exchange reserves, and boosted fuel prices.  Drugmaker  Cipla Ltd. (CIPLA)  dropped 5.6 percent, the most since
May 10, 2010, after its profit missed analysts’ estimates.  India’s benchmark wholesale-price index rose 6.55 percent
in January from a year earlier, the least in more than two
years, according to a commerce ministry report. That compares
with the 6.7 percent median growth estimated by economists in a
Bloomberg News survey and December’s 7.47 percent rate.  LG Electronics Inc. (066570) , the world’s third-largest maker of
mobile phones, advanced 3.1 percent in Seoul trading after
Shinhan Investment Corp. raised its share-price estimate by 13
percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey in Hong Kong at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net  