-- Emerging Stocks Fall on Global Growth Concern After Moody’s Cuts
-- B y   G a n   Y e n   K u a n   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-02-14T17:40:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/emerging-market-stocks-fall-on-europe-debt-concern-after-moody-s-cuts.html
Emerging-market stocks fell after
Moody’s Investors Service cut the debt ratings of six European
nations and U.S. retail sales rose less than forecast,
rekindling concern that  Europe ’s crisis may curb global growth.  The  MSCI Emerging Markets Index (MXEF)  lost 0.5 percent to
1,048.06 at 12:12 p.m. in New York. The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP) 
dropped 0.3 percent and the  ISE National 100 Index  slid 1.5
percent in Istanbul.  Brazil ’s Bovespa fell 0.6 percent as
producers followed a drop in metal prices.  The U.K. and  France  may be stripped of their top Aaa
ratings, Moody’s said as it reduced the debt rankings of
countries including Italy, Spain and  Portugal  on concern
economic weakness may threaten austerity programs and reforms.
U.S. retail sales rose 0.4 percent in January, half the 0.8
percent gain forecast by economists in a Bloomberg survey,
Commerce Department figures showed today.  “We’ve had a cautious day” as investors weigh the
European downgrades and U.S. retail sales data,  Neil Shearing ,
an  emerging markets  economist at Capital Economics Ltd. in
 London , said by phone. “An almost unique level of uncertainty”
means “there’s plenty of people sitting on the sidelines
waiting to see how this will play out.”  European Union finance ministers are due to convene in
Brussels tomorrow for their second extraordinary meeting in a
week after telling Greek officials to identify additional cuts
of 325 million euros ($428 million). The measures are among the
conditions that must be met for  Greece  to secure a 130 billion-
euro rescue needed to avert financial collapse.  Russia, India, Brazil  In Brazil, miner  Vale SA (VALE5)  lost 2 percent and steelmaker
 Gerdau SA (GGBR4) , which generated 37 percent of its third-quarter
revenue from  North America , fell 1.7 percent.  OAO Lukoil (LKOH) ,  Russia ’s second-largest oil producer, gained 1
percent as oil rose on concern that tensions with  Iran  may
hinder Middle East exports.  The BSE India Sensitive Index, or  Sensex (SENSEX) , added 0.4 percent
as the nation’s inflation rate slowed more than expected.  The rally that’s boosted emerging-market stocks 14 percent
this year may pause as sentiment is too optimistic and fund
inflows reached the highest level in 15 months, according to
Bank of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley. Investor holdings in
emerging markets have climbed to a level that historically
foreshadowed short-term underperformance,  Michael Hartnett , the
chief global equity strategist at Bank of America, wrote today.  Emerging-Market Inflows  Last week’s inflow into emerging-market stock funds
increased the net investment in 2012 to $17 billion, compared
with outflows of $11.4 billion for the same period of 2011,
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global said in a report e-
mailed on Feb. 10.  The MSCI emerging-markets gauge trades for 10.5 times
estimated profits, compared with 12.6 times for the MSCI  World
index (MXWO)  of developed nations.  Sri Lanka ’s  Colombo All-Share Index (CSEALL)  plunged 3.7 percent to
5009.96, the lowest level since August 2010. The gauge has
slumped 17.5 percent this year, the most among 93 major
benchmark gauges tracked by Bloomberg. Stocks and the rupee have
fallen as the government scrapped a currency trading band to
help conserve foreign-exchange reserves, and boosted fuel
prices.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt over U.S. Treasuries increased 3 basis points, or 0.03
percentage points, to 382 basis points, according to JPMorgan
Chase & Co.’s EMBI Global Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gan Yen Kuan in  Kuala Lumpur  at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net . 