-- Emerging Stock Rally May Fade After Biggest Purchases Since ’01, BofA Says
-- B y   M i c h a e l   P a t t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-14T13:45:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/emerging-stock-rally-may-fade-after-biggest-purchases-since-01-bofa-says.html
The biggest purchases of emerging-
market stocks by global money managers in more than a decade and
the largest mutual-fund inflows in 15 months are signs to Bank
of America Corp. and Morgan Stanley that the rally in
developing-nation shares may pause.  A net 44 percent of investors surveyed by Bank of America
this month said they had “overweight” positions in  emerging
markets , up from 20 percent in January, the biggest monthly
increase since 2001, according to a report today. Developing-
nation stock funds lured $5.8 billion in the week ended Feb. 8,
the most since October 2010, EPFR Global data show.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index has gained 15 percent in
2012, the best start to a year since 1991. The surge in optimism
is a contrarian indicator that may signal the rally has gone too
far, too fast, according to  Jonathan Garner , the chief  Asia  and
emerging-market strategist at Morgan Stanley. Investor holdings
in emerging markets have climbed to a level that historically
foreshadowed short-term underperformance,  Michael Hartnett , the
chief global equity strategist at Bank of America, wrote today.  Bets on emerging markets are “dangerously high,” Hartnett
wrote. Developing nations are the most-favored investment
destination for equities among  global  money managers who
participated in the survey, he said.  Relative Valuations  The MSCI emerging-market index has outperformed the MSCI
World Index by about 6 percentage points this year as better-
than-estimated data on global manufacturing and the American job
market spurred speculation that the world economy will weather
 Europe ’s debt crisis.  The advance has narrowed the valuation discount on
emerging-market stocks versus developed-nation shares to about
15 percent from 20 percent at the end of September, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. The MSCI emerging-market gauge
trades for 12 times reported  profits , compared with 14 times for
the MSCI World, the data show.  The emerging-market index slipped 0.3 percent to 1,050.38
at 1:27 p.m. in  London  today. The gauge closed at a six-month
high of 1,061.68 on Feb. 9.  Last week’s inflow into emerging-market stock funds
increased the net investment in 2012 to $17 billion, compared
with outflows of $11.4 billion for the same period of 2011,
Cambridge, Massachusetts-based EPFR Global said in a report e-
mailed on Feb. 10.  Morgan Stanley’s Garner reduced his overweight
recommendation on emerging-market stocks the same day to 8
percent from 10 percent and advised increasing cash holdings to
2 percent from zero. He maintained his year-end target of 1,210
for the MSCI index, which is about 15 percent higher than the
closing  level  yesterday.  “Strong inflows are a near-term contrarian negative,”
Garner said in the Feb. 10 report. “The market is somewhat
technically overbought.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Patterson  in London at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  