-- Energy Conversion Files for Bankruptcy, Seeks Sale of Assets
-- B y   D a w n   M c C a r t y   a n d   C h r i s   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-14T18:08:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/energy-conversion-files-for-bankruptcy-seeks-sale-of-business.html
Energy Conversion Devices Inc. (ENER) , a
U.S. solar manufacturer that suspended production last year,
filed for bankruptcy with plans to sell its solar panel unit.  Its United Solar Ovonic unit will continue to operate
during the sales process, Auburn Hills, Michigan-based  Energy
Conversion  said today in a statement.  The company listed debt of $249.1 million and assets of
$986.3 million as of Dec. 31 in Chapter 11 documents filed today
in U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Detroit.  “Our current capital structure and legacy costs are
preventing USO from making the investments necessary for the
future of the business with restructuring through the bankruptcy
process,” Julie Hawkins, Energy Conversion’s chief executive
officer, said in the statement.  The company joins LSP Energy LP, the owner of a natural-
gas-fired power plant in  Mississippi ; Ener1 Inc., maker of
lithium-ion batteries for plug-in electric cars; solar panel
maker Solyndra LLC and energy storage company  Beacon Power Corp (BCONQ) .
in bankruptcy.  Largest Bondholders  Energy Conversion’s largest bondholders include Sanders
Morris Harris, with a claim of $112.3 million; Angelo Gordon &
Co., with a claim of $54.5 million; and Diamondback Capital
Management LLC, with a claim of $23.3 million, court papers
show. The Chicago branch of Bank of New York Mellon Trust Co. is
listed as indenture trustee for Energy Conversion’s bonds. The
aggregate amount due under the bonds to all bondholders is
$264.4 million, court papers show.  The company said its “operating and divestiture” plan is
supported by holders of about 70 percent of the company’s $263.2
million in outstanding 3 percent convertible senior notes due in
2013.  Energy Conversion said it hired Quarton Partners LLC to
manage the sale process of USO, which it expects to be completed
in 90 days.  The case is In re Energy Conversion Devices Inc., 12-43166,
 U.S. Bankruptcy Court , Eastern District of  Michigan  (Detroit).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at   jpickering@bloomberg.net . 