-- Making Sure That Valentine Diamond Isn’t Tainted by Blood: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-14T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/ensuring-future-valentine-s-day-diamonds-aren-t-corrupted-by-blood-view.html
It being the feast of Saint
Valentine, today is a favored moment to give or receive that
ultimate lovers’ gift: a diamond. This year, however, isn’t a
good one for those who want to know for sure that the stone’s
origins are above reproach.  That’s because the  Kimberley Process Certification Scheme ,
the international regime designed to disconnect human suffering
from the rough-diamond supply chain, is  losing its sparkle . As
the chairman of the process for 2012, the U.S. is positioned to
lead vital reforms. Given the scope of the needed changes and
the short time frame in which to enact them, the U.S. needs to
move with dispatch.  Started in 2003 through the  United Nations , the Kimberley
Process requires that the 76 participating countries --
including all the major diamond traders -- establish a system to
eliminate the presence of  conflict diamonds  from shipments into
or out of their territory. Members agree to trade only with one
another. Kimberley Process certification allows exporters to
sell legitimately and thus for top dollar.  The worst manifestation of the weakness of the scheme is in
 Zimbabwe . In 2008, the government deployed soldiers to seize the
massive, newly discovered Marange diamond fields,  killing more
than 200 miners  and forcing others, including children, to dig
for gems. Zimbabwean authorities claim that the establishment
since of four enterprises -- mining companies in joint ventures
with the government -- has regularized operations in Marange.
But security guards  still attack local miners  to drive them off,
 preserving the area’s riches  for the government’s chosen few.  Because of these outrages, the  Kimberley Process  singled
out Marange gems for scrutiny in the late 2000s. But last year,
the program reinstituted Zimbabwe’s right to issue certificates
for them. At the time, the process was led by the  Democratic
Republic of the Congo , whose army has  also been implicated  in
illegal mining of gold and other metals. Backed by other African
producers, the DRC took the position that the Kimberley rules
did not cover human-rights abuses like those in Marange.  Unfortunately, it had a point. The Kimberley Process was
originally a response to wars in such places as  Sierra Leone  and
 Angola  in which rebels funded their efforts by mining and
selling rough diamonds. That revenue prolonged conflicts, adding
to the suffering of civilians. The certification process thus
focused on requiring that diamonds finance no entity seeking to
overthrow a legitimate government.  Today, the only gems denied Kimberley certificates because
of their designation as conflict diamonds are those from  Ivory
Coast , where until recently rebels used them as a source of
financing. Yet the intent of the Kimberley Process -- to ensure
the diamond trade doesn’t harm ordinary people -- is being
violated in Zimbabwe. Whether the people of Marange are being
abused by insurgents or by soldiers, or by ex-soldiers working
as guards for the government’s joint ventures, doesn’t change
the fact of their suffering.  That abuse should be what matters to purchasers of polished
diamonds, who count on the Kimberley Process to keep tainted
stones out of legitimate markets. For Kimberley certification to
live up to its original intent, it needs to prohibit not just
diamonds that fund rebellions but also those that owe their
provenance to abuse of human rights. Drawing on accepted global
norms and the work of monitoring groups such as  Human Rights
Watch  and  Global Witness , the Kimberley Process needs to put
such prohibitions into place.  The U.S. is well-placed to spearhead such a reform. The
U.S. alone makes up 38 percent of the polished-diamond market,
which boomed last year, judging by the 26 percent increase in
 total 2011 sales  reported by industry leader  De Beers . Updating
the terms of reference will take considerable leadership,
because the Kimberley Process works on the basis of consensus,
which has been interpreted to mean unanimity. That, too, needs
revising. A simple majority of voting members present should
suffice for normal decisions, with 75 percent required for a
change in the charter.  The time for action is short. In 11 months,  South Africa 
will assume the leadership of the process. Although South Africa
has agreed with the U.S. in principle to a two-year reform
strategy, as a rough-diamond producer it faces a different array
of pressures that could end up watering down proposed changes.  On Feb. 3, Gillian Milovanovic, the new U.S. chairwoman of
the Kimberley Process, conducted a  news conference by telephone .
A French-speaking diplomat who’s worked in  Mali ,  Botswana  and
South Africa, she’s impressed reform advocates with her resolve
and spoke on the call of an “ambitious” U.S. agenda. Yet she was
poorly equipped to field reporters’ questions, saying she was
not “sufficiently familiar” with the Marange issue to address
it. Milovanovic will have to pick up the pace to achieve the
ambitious reform necessary to ensure diamonds, a token of love
exchanged between two people, aren’t procured at the expense of
others.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 