-- Tepco Bailout Fund Starts Steps to Raise Up to 2 Trillion Yen
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a ,   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   E m i   U r a b e
-- 2012-02-14T08:18:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/tepco-bailout-fund-starts-steps-to-raise-up-to-2-trillion-yen.html
Japan’s government, seeking to
bailout  Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  after the Fukushima nuclear
disaster, met representatives from about 100 financial companies
as it prepares to raise as much as 2 trillion yen ($26 billion)
of loans, five people involved in the meeting said.  The government-run Nuclear Damage Liability Facilitation
Fund hosted its biggest meeting yet with banks on obtaining a
syndicated loan, which will be guaranteed by the government,
with a borrowing period of less than one year, according to
presentation materials obtained by Bloomberg News.  The loan size and timing of bids weren’t announced at the
meeting, the people said, declining to be identified because the
information isn’t public. Banks wishing to bid will need to
register with the fund by around March 14, the presentation
material says.  The fund can use as much as 5 trillion yen of special
bonds, some of which have been already issued by the government,
to help the utility known as Tepco pay compensation to those
affected by the Fukushima nuclear disaster that forced about
160,000 people to be evacuated almost 1 year ago.  The fund has a loan guarantee line of as much as 2 trillion
yen to obtain shares in Tepco or lend to the operator of the
crippled Fukushima Dai-Ichi station. The special bonds, which
can be immediately redeemed, may be only used for compensation
payments.  Mizuho Corporate Bank Ltd (MIZC) . is the arranger for the
syndicated loan, according to the material.  Tepco yesterday received extra aid of 689.4 billion yen
from the government and is seeking a larger bailout as it sits
on the edge of bankruptcy.  Japan ’s trade and industry minister,
 Yukio Edano , told Tepco President Toshio Nishizawa the
government won’t approve the broader package unless it gets
“sufficient”  voting rights .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net ;
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Emi Urabe 占部絵美 in Tokyo at 
 eurabe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at 
 aprakash1@bloomberg.net  