-- Merkel Targets Leveraged Buyouts in Fiscal Convergence Tax Plan
-- B y   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-02-14T18:16:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/merkel-targets-leveraged-buyouts-in-fiscal-convergence-tax-plan.html
German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s
coalition plans to limit the capacity of private equity
companies to offset the cost of leveraged buyouts in a step it
says is in line with fiscal convergence in  Europe .  The proposal, unveiled today by coalition lawmakers in
Berlin, is part of a 12-point plan to change corporate taxation
that may become law as early as next year, said Free Democrat
lawmaker Volker Wissing. If implemented, the measures will
alleviate companies’ tax burden by about 1.8 billion euros
($2.37 billion) per year from 2016, Wissing said.  In targeting LBOs, the coalition seeks to eradicate an
“undesired” takeover model, Wissing told reporters in Berlin.
“We don’t want to weaken private equity in  Germany , just a
certain model of finance.”  The step seeks to limit the capacity of takeover firms to
offload part of the costs of their leveraged investments onto
the companies they purchase, exploiting tax rules, according to
a statement released by the coalition.  The rule change will apply only to cases where a fund has
been established to buy a specific company and is able to pass
on a large part of the investment costs to the purchased
company, Wissing said.  This was the case when TPG Capital bought German bathroom
equipment maker Grohe Holding GmbH with Credit Suisse’s private
equity unit in 2004. “We don’t want to hamper start-up finance
or private equity investments in ailing companies,” he said.  Fiscal Pact  When implemented, the changes will support the European
Union’s “Fiscal Pact,” Christian Democrat lawmaker Klaus-Peter Flosbach said. The pact, a set of rules tying signatories to
stringent budget practices, “requires 25 countries to work
together toward a common goal, and  tax policy  is part of this.”  While diverse, the 12 steps outlined today focus on tax
compensation affecting company losses, Flosbach said. The
proposals include changes to per diem rules, taxation of
dividends and taxation rules for company groups.  Private equity companies have became some of the biggest
private landlords in Germany in the last decade. In 2005, the
former Social Democratic Party Chairman Franz Muentefering said
in a Stern magazine interview that private-equity funds are
“locusts” that harm the German economy, stripping companies of
assets before selling them on.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  