-- Mersen Says Terms for Solar Clients in China Hurt Cash Flow
-- B y   F r a n c o i s   d e   B e a u p u y
-- 2012-02-14T11:44:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/mersen-says-terms-for-solar-clients-in-china-hurt-cash-flow.html
Mersen, a French maker of graphite
and electrical goods for steelmakers and other manufacturers, is
delaying investments as economic growth slows and  cash flow  is
hurt by longer payment terms for Chinese solar-panel makers.  “Toward the end of the year, Chinese players asked for
longer payment conditions,” Chief Financial Officer Thomas Baumgartner said in an interview in Paris. “They used to pay
almost on delivery or within 30 days, they can now pay within
three to six months with bank guarantees.”  Mersen has put some investment on hold to prepare for a
slowdown in economic growth, Baumgartner said. Last year, it
invested 50 million euros ($66 million) to 60 million euros,
including almost 30 million euros for maintenance, and boosted
its graphite production capacity to 12,000 tons per year from
9,000 tons.  “We’re putting ourselves in a position to invest just
about 30 million euros this year if the environment were to
worsen,” Baumgartner said. “Analysts expect us on average to
invest 45 million euros in 2012 amid a moderate economic
environment. That figure doesn’t seem absurd.”  Mersen (MRN) , based in Paris, said last month that sales will
drop at the beginning of this year after reaching a record in
2011 as Chinese makers of solar cells and European steelmakers
scale back orders for graphite used in furnaces and electrical
components such as fuses. It reiterated that its 2011 operating
margin before one-time items exceeded 12 percent of sales.  China Demand  “We’ve generated exceptional cash flows before investments
of around 100 million euros in 2009 and 2010,” the CFO said.
“It will probably be not as good in 2011, but once the market
of Chinese solar cell producers picks up, there’s no reason for
payment conditions not to shorten.”  Mersen had revenue of 830 million euros in 2011, including
110 million euros from the solar industry. A third of Mersen’s
solar revenue came from graphite used in furnaces of Chinese
makers of solar cells, which are paring orders to reduce
inventories, and the rest came from equipment sold to makers of
polysilicon and solar farms, where Mersen sees no slowdown,
according to Baumgartner.  China  is the manufacturing hub for seven of the eight
biggest solar panel makers, and falling prices have hurt
companies throughout the industry. Trina Solar Ltd. cut its
forecast for shipments last year along with First Solar Inc.,
SunPower Corp., Yingli Green Energy Holding Co. and JinkoSolar
Holding Co.  Acquisitions  Mersen’s net debt, which amounted to 2.7 times earnings
before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization in 2008,
fell to 1.5 times at end of June, and that ratio was “not very
different” at the end of 2011, Baumgartner said. Mersen is
using about 50 percent of its credit lines, and its average debt
maturity exceeds 4 years, he said.  Mersen will release its full-year earnings report on March
15, according to its website.  “We currently have a very decent financial structure,” the
CFO said. “We always have acquisitions under consideration, not
necessarily planned for the very short term. The environment
isn’t a total deterrent” for purchases.  For revenue “we’re seeing a moderate environment in
 Europe , while we’re seeing a backdrop which remains good in
 North America  and  Asia , except for solar,” Baumgartner said
“ Germany , which accounts for about 11 percent of our revenue,
is doing better than other European countries.”  Fourth-quarter sales excluding acquisitions and exchange
rate fluctuations rose 1.3 percent to 202.4 million euros. The
company gets 28 percent of its revenue in the U.S., and more
than 10 percent in China, Baumgartner said.  After a 32 percent decline in 2011, Mersen shares have
climbed 10 percent in Paris this year, giving the company a
market value of 522 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Francois de Beaupuy in Paris at 
 fdebeaupuy@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 