-- Tesla Loss Seen Widening Ahead of Model S as Roadster Ends
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-14T21:04:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/tesla-loss-seen-widening-ahead-of-model-s-as-roadster-sales-end.html
Tesla Motors Inc. (TSLA) , the maker of
battery-powered cars run by entrepreneur Elon Musk, may have
seen its loss widen in 2011’s final quarter as it wound down
production and sales of $109,000 Roadster electric cars.  Tesla’s Model S sedan, intended to expand the  Palo Alto ,
California-based company’s sales volume with a base model priced
at $57,400, won’t go into production until mid-2012. Until then,
Tesla’s main revenue source is supplying battery packs and other
components to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) , two of its
investors.  “We do expect the roll-off of the Model S to be a headwind
to contend with until later this year,” Amir Rozwadowski, a New
York-based analyst with  Barclays Capital , said in an interview.
He has an “overweight” rating on the shares.  The average estimate of 11 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg
was for a loss, excluding some items, of 62 cents a share. On
that basis, Tesla reported a fourth-quarter loss of 47 cents a
share in 2010’s fourth quarter. The company is scheduled to
release quarterly results tomorrow.  Tesla seeks to become a dominant seller of premium electric
vehicles, aided by the agreements with Daimler and Toyota. The
company last week unveiled and began taking reservations for the
Model X battery-powered sport-utility vehicle that goes on sale
in 2013, after Model S debuts.  Tesla gained 5.3 percent to $33.17 at the close in  New
York . The shares have risen 16 percent this year.  ‘Self-Sustaining’ Company  Tesla, named for inventor Nikola Tesla, aims to build as
many as 20,000 units of Model S next year. Tesla has said it
expects Model S sales to help it become  profitable  for the first
time by as early as next year.  “We believe Tesla is at the cusp of becoming a self-
sustaining company, in terms of revenue, with a crisp execution
of the Model S launch,” said Rozwadowski, who estimates the
carmaker lost 62 cents per share in last year’s fourth quarter.
“A lot of the company’s future success will be determined by a
successful launch of Model S. Investors are focused on that.”  A widening of Tesla’s quarterly loss will affirm the views
of Tesla critics, said Alan Baum, principal of Baum &
Associates, a provider of automobile-industry analysis in West
Bloomfield,  Michigan .  “The people who think electric vehicles are not ready for
prime time are going to say yet again that Tesla is a failure,”
Baum said.  Loss Warning  Tesla is among the most-shorted U.S. stocks. Almost 65
percent of its shares available for trading, or float, were sold
short as of Jan. 31, the second-highest total in the  Russell
1000 Index (RIY) , according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Short
sellers profit from price declines by selling borrowed
securities and replacing them with stock bought at lower levels.  Tesla has made it clear since its initial public offering
in 2010 that revenue would decline in the period prior to the
start of Model S deliveries, Musk said in a Feb. 9 interview.  “People shouldn’t focus too much on the current quarters
of revenue,” Musk said in Hawthorne,  California , prior to
unveiling the Model X.  Given the timing of the start of production of electric
sedans at Tesla’s Fremont, California, plant, “it’s really
difficult to avoid, but there’s nothing happening that wasn’t
predicted two years ago,” he said.  Orders for Model S exceed 8,000, and are increasing, Musk
said, without elaborating.  “Demand for the car has been phenomenal,” he said.
“We’re sold out until March next year.”  Model X  The Model X, Tesla’s first crossover that comes out next
year, is derived from the underpinnings of Model S car. The mid-
size SUV, touted by Tesla as faster than  Porsche AG (PAH3) ’s 911 sports
car and roomier than the Q7 SUV of  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi brand,
will be built in 2013 at the Fremont plant that starts making
the Model S this year.  Deliveries are to begin late next year and expand
throughout 2014, Musk said. Tesla provided no pricing details
for the Model X. Both the Model S and Model X qualify for a
$7,500 U.S. federal tax credit aimed at encouraging sales of
electric vehicles.  Tesla also is to begin supplying battery packs and motors
to Toyota for an all-electric version of its RAV4 compact SUV
that will be sold this year, initially in California. Tesla also
has contracts to supply its technology for use in Daimler
models.  While it may not make money for a while, Tesla has gained
credibility, Baum said.  “Tesla now has serious people involved, with automotive
backgrounds, working to get the products to market on
schedule,” Baum said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  