-- MetLife Profit Advances to $1.16 Billion as Derivative Investments Improve
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-14T21:09:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/metlife-profit-advances-to-1-16-billion-as-derivative-investments-improve.html
MetLife Inc. (MET) , the biggest U.S. life
insurer, said fourth-quarter profit surged on earnings from
derivatives.  Net income  advanced to $1.16 billion, or $1.06 a share,
from $82 million, or 5 cents, a year earlier, the New York-based
company said today in a statement distributed by  Business Wire .
Excluding some investment results, profit was $1.31 a share,
beating the $1.24  average estimate  of 19 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  MetLife expanded in Asia, Europe and  South America  with the
$16 billion acquisition of American Life Insurance Co. in
November 2010. The company’s derivatives, used to generate
income and guard against interest-rate declines, produce losses
when bond yields rise, as they did in the last quarter of 2010.  “MET marks its derivative portfolio to market each
quarter,”  Suneet Kamath , an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein &
Co., said in a Jan. 30 research report. The insurer “excludes
derivative gains and losses from operating earnings, but
underlying performance is captured” in net income, said Kamath.  MetLife has gained 20 percent in New York since Dec. 31,
beating the 19 percent advance of Prudential Financial Inc., the
second-biggest U.S. life insurer. MetLife fell 30 percent last
year, the second worst decline in the Standard and Poor’s 500
Life & Health Insurance  Index. (S5LIFE)  Newark New Jersey-based
Prudential slipped 15 percent in 2011.  Snoopy, Blimps  MetLife Chief Executive Officer  Steven Kandarian , promoted
to the top spot in May, is integrating Alico and spending on
advertising. Kandarian put the name MetLife Stadium on the home
of the  National Football League ’s New York Jets and Giants last
year. The company’s blimps, with depictions of the cartoon dog
Snoopy, fly over sporting events in the U.S. and Japan.  Kandarian is exiting banking to reduce federal oversight
and scaling back variable-annuity sales to ease liabilities on
the equity-based products. MetLife agreed in December to sell
about $7.5 billion of bank deposits to General Electric Co.
after the insurer’s plan for a dividend increase was rejected by
the Federal Reserve. MetLife is shutting a mortgage-origination
business and eliminating most of the 4,300 jobs.  MetLife, which had more than $270 billion of derivative
contracts at the end of September, guards against interest-rate
declines because the company depends on bond coupons to help
fund customer obligations and record profits. MetLife held more
than  $350 billion  of fixed-maturity securities as of Sept. 30.  The yield on  two-year U.S. Treasuries  slipped 1.6 percent
in the fourth quarter, compared with a surge of 41 percent in
the same period of 2010.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in  New York  at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net . 