-- EU Says Ready to Help Greece in Event of Iranian Oil Export Halt
-- B y   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-02-14T19:42:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/eu-says-ready-to-help-greece-in-event-of-iranian-oil-export-halt.html
European Union Energy Commissioner
 Guenther Oettinger  reiterated that the bloc will be ready to
help ensure Greece has enough oil supplies in case  Iran  halts
exports before an EU embargo comes into force in July.  “We can give no guarantees, but we have said we will work
in close consultations in trying to make sure we have the
necessary amount of oil for refining if supplies from Iran were
to be canceled in the next few days,” Oettinger said today in
Brussels after a meeting of EU energy ministers.  The EU decided on Jan. 23 to ban imports of Iranian oil as
of July 1 because of concerns that Iran is developing nuclear
weapons. The five-month phase-in period, during which existing
contracts are allowed to continue, is meant to give  member
states  such as Greece that are relatively dependent on Iranian
crude time to find alternative sources of supply.  The Iranian state-run Mehr news agency said last month that
the country’s lawmakers are drafting a bill that would call for
a halt of exports to  Europe  even before July.  The 27-nation EU needs to consider how to use “European
financing mechanisms” to help ensure adequate supplies if
needed, Oettinger told reporters today in Brussels.  “One thing we looked at was how to communicate more
closely and ensure there’s security of oil supplies for all
member states,” he said at the news conference.  The European law requires member states to hold emergency
fuel stocks of at least 90 days of the average daily domestic
consumption in the previous calendar year and Oettinger said in
an interview on Jan. 26 that some countries may need to tap
those reserves.  Stockholding Obligations  Greece  conformed to its oil-stockholding obligations under
the EU law and these emergency stocks can be released in the
event of supply shortages, he said last month.  Imports of oil from Iran account for about 5 percent
of EU consumption and from 10 percent to 30 percent in the most-
exposed countries, which are Italy, Greece and  Spain , according
to the European Commission, the EU executive.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  