-- China Pledges Sustained Euro Holdings With Plan to Invest in Bailout Funds
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-15T09:48:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/eu-s-van-rompuy-welcomes-china-s-interest-in-aiding-europe.html
China  pledged to invest in Europe’s
bailout funds and sustain its holdings of euro assets, spurring
gains in the currency and Asian stocks on optimism the region’s
debt crisis will be overcome.  “China will always adhere to the principle of holding
assets of EU sovereign debt,” People’s Bank of China Governor
Zhou Xiaochuan said in Beijing today. “We would participate in
resolving the euro debt crisis,” he said, echoing comments by
Premier  Wen Jiabao  yesterday.  The remarks offer a carrot to European finance ministers,
who are increasing pressure on  Greece  to deliver budget cuts in
exchange for a second bailout. At stake for China is helping to
stabilize the economy of its largest export market amid a global
slowdown that has curtailed growth in Chinese shipments abroad.  “Wen and Zhou are giving the best support China can offer
now, which is to send out positive messages such as promising
not to cut euro assets and to buy European bonds to help bolster
market confidence,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based
economist at Mizuho Securities Asia Ltd. who previously worked
at the  European Central Bank . “How much and when China will buy
will depend on its foreign-exchange investment strategy -- when
they find the pricing and exchange rate favorable.”  The MSCI Asia-Pacific Index of shares advanced 1.9 percent
at 6:43 p.m. in  Tokyo , heading for the biggest increase in a
month. The euro strengthened 0.3 percent to $1.3168.  ‘Sincere and Firm’  Zhou’s comments, made in a speech and question-and-answer
session with students, came a day after Premier Wen Jiabao said
the nation is willing to get “more deeply” involved in
resolving Europe’s debt crisis, although the continent must send
a clearer message to show how it’s working to strengthen its
finances.  “China’s willingness to support  Europe  to cope with
sovereign debt problems is sincere and firm,” Wen said at a
joint press conference yesterday in Beijing with European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy . “China is ready to get more deeply
involved in participating in solving the European debt issue.”  Van Rompuy  said he welcomed the interest China has shown in
investing in European sovereign bonds and the region’s rescue
fund. Meantime, back in Europe, finance ministers are slated
today for a teleconference call to prod Greece to do more to
qualify for another bailout.  Debt Crisis Spreading  Even as Premier Wen and Zhou spoke of their support for
Europe, the central bank warned today the region’s debt crisis
will not be solved in the short term and is spreading throughout
the euro area.  The crisis could trigger systemic risks to the global
economy, the PBOC said in a quarterly monetary policy report
posted on its  website , adding that major developed economies
lack credible fiscal plans. The central bank didn’t specify when
the report was prepared.  China expects “those highly indebted countries to
strengthen fiscal consolidation, cut deficits and reduce debt
risks in light of their national conditions,” Wen said
yesterday. “We hope the EU will soon reach internal consensus,
make the political decision and send to the international
community a clearer and a stronger message of policy
responses.”  Chinese officials are taking their message of support for
Europe to the U.S. where Vice President  Xi Jinping  is on a five-
day visit.  Right Time  The two countries have been in “close policy
communication” on the European debt crisis, Vice Finance
Minister  Zhu Guangyao  said at a briefing yesterday in  Washington .
“Both China and the U.S. hope that the financial stability and
economic recovery will be restored in Europe at an early date,”
he said.  In Beijing, Governor Zhou said that while the five BRICS
countries -  Brazil , Russia India, China and  South Africa  - all
hold a “very positive attitude” toward helping Europe, they
have to wait for the right time and right opportunity to invest.  China hopes for more “innovation” from Europe to provide
more lucrative products that are “truly appealing” to Chinese
investors, Zhou said, reiterating comments by Premier Wen.  The nation has been wooed by European leaders to help fund
the temporary European Financial Stability Facility and its
permanent successor, the European Stability Mechanism.  More Details  China is considering funding options for the EFSF and the
ESM through the  International Monetary Fund , Wen said on Feb. 2
after meeting German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  in Beijing.
Officials previously said they needed more details on any plan
to contribute funds.  Zhou said today that China can channel its investments
through three avenues. The central bank can participate through
foreign-exchange reserves it manages and a second option is
support from China Investment Corp., the country’s sovereign-
wealth fund.  The third source of help could come from financial
institutions including  China Development Bank  and Export-Import
Bank of China, and other institutional investors including
Chinese enterprises, Zhou said.  China, which holds the world’s largest foreign-exchange
reserves of $3.18 trillion, has previously signaled it wants to
diversify the holdings away from U.S. dollar-denominated assets.
The country doesn’t publicly disclose a breakdown of its
 reserves .  Maintain Investment  The PBOC has “always had confidence in the euro’s
outlook” and as China’s foreign-exchange reserves have
increased, the nation has “adjusted and increased the
proportion of investment in the euro,” Zhou said.  Government leaders have “expressed clearly” through the
Group of 20 nations that China will not reduce the proportion of
its investment in euro assets during the global financial crisis
and European debt crisis, Zhou said.  Moody’s Investors Service cut the debt ratings of six
European countries on Feb. 13, including Italy,  Spain  and
 Portugal , and said it may strip  France  and the U.K. of their top
Aaa ratings, citing Europe’s debt crisis.  Spain was downgraded to A3 from A1 on Feb. 13, Italy to A3
from A2 and Portugal to Ba3 from Ba2, all with negative outlooks.
Slovakia, Slovenia and Malta also had their ratings lowered.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Kevin Hamlin in Beijing at 
 khamlin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  