-- European Union May Raise Tariffs on Chinese Warehouse Trucks
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   S t e a r n s
-- 2012-02-14T12:14:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/european-union-may-raise-tariffs-on-chinese-warehouse-trucks.html
The European Union threatened to
raise tariffs on warehouse trucks from  China , saying current
levies as high as 46.7 percent may offer inadequate protection
for EU producers.  The EU began a review of the duties on imports from China
of hand pallet trucks, which are used for moving materials
placed on pallets. The bloc cited evidence that China’s
producers can export at low prices because of Chinese state
“interference” in the steel market and that their capacity is
“much bigger” than domestic demand.  Last October, the EU renewed the trade protection until
2016 to curb competition for  Italy ’s Lifter Srl and a Swedish
unit of  Toyota Industries Corp. (6201)  The EU introduced the levies in
2005 for five years to punish Chinese exporters such as  Ningbo
Ruyi Joint Stock Co.  for selling the manually powered equipment
in  Europe  below cost, a practice known as dumping.  “The continued imposition of measures at the existing
level appears to be no longer appropriate to offset the effects
of injurious dumping,” the European Commission, the 27-nation
EU’s trade authority in Brussels, said today in the  Official
Journal . The review will last as long as 15 months.  China’s share of the EU market for hand pallet trucks
increased to 83 percent in the 12 months through June 2010 from
around 78 percent in 2007, the bloc said when renewing the anti-
dumping duties four months ago. The levies range from 7.6
percent to 46.7 percent, depending on the Chinese manufacturer.  Thailand Levy  Lifter, a subsidiary of  Pramac SpA (PRA) , and BT Products AB, a
unit of  Japan ’s Toyota Industries, had requested the
prolongation of the duties. The companies, which the EU said
account for “almost the total” bloc-wide production of hand
pallet trucks, claimed that letting the trade protection expire
would probably result in further dumping by Chinese exporters
and injury to the European industry.  In June 2009, the EU extended the maximum duty to  Thailand 
after concluding that Chinese exporters used the country to
evade the levy. The bloc narrowed the scope of the tariffs in
July 2008 by excluding equipment that lifts, stacks or weighs.
The renewal in October maintained those two decisions.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Stearns in Strasbourg, France at 
 jstearns2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  