-- European Industrial Output Declines 1.1%
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-14T10:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/european-industrial-output-declines-1-1-led-by-slump-in-german-economy.html
European  industrial production 
declined in December led by a slump in  Germany , adding to signs
the region may have slipped into its second recession in three
years.  Production in the 17-nation euro area fell 1.1 percent from
November, when it remained unchanged, the European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg said today. Economists had
forecast a drop of 1.2 percent, the median of 36 estimates in a
 Bloomberg News (EUITEMUM)  survey showed. From a year earlier, production
decreased 2 percent.  The  region’s economy  probably failed to grow in the fourth
quarter as governments toughened austerity measures, undermining
spending and hiring, just as global exports weakened. While
industrial orders dropped in November and unemployment held at
the highest in more than a decade in December, European Central
Bank President  Mario Draghi  said on Feb. 9 that he sees
 “tentative signs”  of economic stabilization.  “The euro-region economy probably slipped into  contraction 
in the fourth quarter of 2011 and may continue to shrink through
the first half of 2012,” said  Andreas Scheuerle , an economist
at Dekabank in  Frankfurt . “The fiscal crisis still has the
potential to hurt the economy and there are enormous risks.”  Gross domestic product probably dropped 0.4 percent in the
three months through December after rising just 0.1 percent in
the previous three months, according to the median estimate of
economists in a Bloomberg survey. That would be the region’s
first quarterly  contraction  in 2 1/2 years. The statistics
office will release the GDP figures tomorrow.  Cost Cuts  In Germany,  Europe ’s largest economy which has driven the
region’s economic expansion, output slumped 2.7 percent from
November, when it fell 0.3 percent, today’s report showed.
Greece and France reported declines of 2.4 percent and 1.3
percent in the month, respectively, with Portugal’s output
slumping 1.6 percent. In Ireland, production rose 2.5 percent.  With economies cooling across the region and export orders
weakening, companies have been forced to lower costs to help
protect earnings. Employers around the globe are cutting jobs
more than three times faster than in 2011, Bloomberg data show.  HeidelbergCement AG (HEI) , the world’s third-largest maker of
cement, on Feb. 9 reported a gain in fourth-quarter profit after
the Heidelberg, Germany-based company cut costs and boosted
output in faster-growing emerging countries.  The ECB has cut  borrowing costs , purchased  government bonds 
and extended provisions of unlimited cash to banks to help fight
the region’s fiscal crisis. Draghi said on Feb. 9, when keeping
the benchmark  interest rate  at a record low of 1 percent, that
the  economic outlook  is due to “high uncertainty and downside
risks,” partly following the turmoil.  Greek Bailout  European finance ministers meeting in Brussels the same day
held back a rescue package for Greece, saying the nation needs
to first implement the latest round of austerity measures. The
finance chiefs will convene again in Brussels tomorrow for
another extraordinary meeting on  Greece  after the Greek
parliament backed austerity measures they demanded for the
financial lifeline.  Resolution of the aid talks, which have dragged on since
July, would allow the country to make a 14.5 billion-euro ($19
billion) bond payment on March 20 and contain the threat that
speculators will target debt-saddled nations including  Italy .  While European leaders are seeking ways to stem contagion,
the fiscal crisis is already affecting companies.  Legrand SA (LR) ,
the world’s biggest maker of wiring devices, on Feb. 9 reported
earnings that missed analyst estimates and said its operating
margin may fall in 2012, partly as the region’s debt crisis
hurting sales.  Capital Goods  Output of  capital goods  in the euro region fell 0.8 percent
from November, when it rose 0.2 percent, today’s report showed.
Production of durable  consumer goods  rose 0.2 percent and energy
output fell 2 percent. Production of intermediate goods fell 0.7
percent.  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s largest engineering company, on Jan.
24 reported earnings that missed estimates as profitability
dropped at its four main units, and predicted that Europe will
slip into recession in the coming months.  “The uncertainties of the ongoing debt crisis have left
their mark on the real economy,” Siemens Chief Executive
Officer  Peter Loescher  said on that day. “Although a recovery
is expected in the second half of the year, we must work hard to
achieve our goals.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  