-- Europe’s Economy Probably Shrank for First Time Since 2009 on Debt Turmoil
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-02-15T07:44:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/europe-s-economy-probably-shrank-for-first-time-since-2009-on-debt-turmoil.html
Europe ’s economy probably shrank in
the fourth quarter for the first time in 2 1/2 years as the
region’s debt crisis undermined confidence and prompted
governments to toughen austerity measures, economists said.  Gross domestic product  in the 17-nation euro area fell 0.4
percent from the prior three months, the biggest drop since the
first quarter of 2009, according to the median forecast of 42
economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The European Union’s
statistics office in Luxembourg releases the data at 11 a.m.
today. Figures released earlier showed French GDP unexpectedly
rose and  Germany ’s fell less than economists forecast.  Europe is facing its second recession in less than three
years and Moody’s Investors Service cut the ratings of six of
the region’s countries on Feb. 13, saying policy makers haven’t
done enough to restore investor confidence. Euro-area finance
ministers canceled a Brussels meeting slated for today and will
hold a teleconference instead to prod  Greece  to do more to
clinch an aid package it needs to make a March bond payment.  “The risk of a recession is very high,” said Gerd Hassel,
an economist at BHF Bank AG in  Frankfurt . “We’ll only see a
very, very gradual recovery this year. Countries affected by the
debt crisis will take a long time to overcome their
difficulties.”  The statistics office is scheduled to publish the breakdown
of fourth-quarter GDP next month.  German Contraction  In Germany, Europe’s largest economy,  GDP (GRGDPPGQ)  dropped 0.2
percent from the third quarter, the first contraction in almost
three years. France’s economy expanded by 0.2 percent, while
economists forecast a 0.2 percent contraction, according to the
median of 25 predictions.  Greece’s GDP slumped 7 percent in the fourth quarter from a
year ago, according to a report yesterday. The economies of
 Spain , Belgium and Portugal also contracted in the final three
months of 2011.  MAN SE (MAN) , the German truckmaker controlled by car
manufacturer Volkswagen AG, said yesterday that sales and
operating profit will decline in 2012 as the debt crisis
discourages companies from investing. There is “significant
uncertainty regarding the economic environment,” the Munich-
based company said in a statement.  Still, recent surveys indicate the pace of contraction
won’t accelerate in the current quarter. Euro-region  services
output  expanded in January after shrinking in the previous four
months and economic confidence increased. German investor
confidence jumped to a 10-month high in February.  ECB Action  Stocks have risen this year, with the MSCI All-Country
gauge up 8.5 percent. The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index , which had its
best January in 14 years, has added 7.4 percent this year.  European Central Bank President  Mario Draghi  has pointed to
signs of stabilization in the euro-area economy and said the ECB
averted a serious credit shortage with its three-year loans to
lenders in December.  European officials are continuing to press Greece to
deliver the budget cuts required in exchange for a second
bailout. Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , chairman
of the euro finance panel, said finance ministers will discuss
“outstanding issues” during the conference call today and hold
their next meeting as scheduled on Feb. 20.  “I did not yet receive the required political assurances
from the leaders of the Greek coalition parties on the
implementation of the program,” Juncker said in a statement
yesterday. He also pressed for “further technical work” on
Greek budget cuts.  International Pressure  More than two years after the debt crisis emerged in
Greece, European leaders face international pressure to do more
to tackle the source of contagion that threatens to drag down
the global economy. Group of 20 nations have signaled they won’t
reach a consensus on crisis aid for Europe via the  International
Monetary Fund  at a Feb. 24-26 meeting of finance chiefs until
Europe increases the size of its firewall.  Erik Nielsen , chief global economist at  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  in
 London , said in an e-mailed note that Greece will be able to
make a 14.5 billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  “I still think that the present deal will be done and that
we’ll get through March 20, but I’m really wondering now whether
so much damage has been done that this marriage no longer can be
rescued,” he said. “Nobody can doubt that the Greek society is
on the edge.”  Birkin Bags  Some companies are relying on faster-growing markets to
bolster sales.  Hermes International SCA (RMS) , the French maker of
Birkin bags, reported full-year sales on Feb. 9 that beat its
own forecast, led by a 29 percent surge in  Asia . The same day,
 Daimler AG (DAI)  forecast higher 2012 profit than analysts had
predicted, propelled by record demand for Mercedes-Benz cars.  “The U.S. certainly is the bright spot as far as the
development in the recent months is concerned,” Daimler Chief
Executive Officer  Dieter Zetsche  said. “We see a buildup in
momentum there. We’re bullish about the further development in
 China .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  