-- Euro Depreciates Against Dollar, Yen Amid Delay in Greece Bailout Package
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-02-15T22:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/euro-trades-near-week-low-before-finance-ministers-talk-on-greece-bailout.html
The euro declined from a two-month
high versus the yen as Greek Finance Minister Evangelos
Venizelos accused some euro-area nations of wanting the  Greece 
to leave the union.  The 17-nation currency pared losses after Luxembourg’s
Jean-Claude Juncker said he is confident that euro-area finance
ministers will be able to make a decision on a Greek bailout
Feb. 20. The euro advanced earlier after  China  said it will help
tackle Europe’s debt crisis. The dollar pared its gain versus
the euro after Federal Reserve minutes showed some officials
favored further bond buying.  “The market is very tired of false promises and that seems
to be all we’re getting,”  Kathy Lien , director of currency
research in New York at the online currency trader GFT Forex.
“It’s still up in the air whether they will get the funds by
March 20, so it’s better stay on the sidelines and stay short
euro-dollar.” Greece has a 14.5 billion-euro ($19 billion) bond
payment due March 20. A short is a bet a currency will decline.  The euro fell 0.5 percent to 102.48 yen at 5 p.m. New York
time after rising to 103.49, the strongest since Dec. 12. The
shared currency declined 0.5 percent to $1.3066, sliding 1.5
percent over the past three days. The yen was little changed at
78.43 per dollar.  Juncker said the group received “strong assurances” from
the leaders of the two coalition parties in Greece’s government
that they will support the austerity program. He said the so-
called troika of the European Commission,  European Central Bank 
and  International Monetary Fund  presented its analysis on the
sustainability of Greece’s public debt and Greece has set out
“the required additional consolidation measures of 325 million
euros” demanded by the finance ministers.  ‘New Terms’  Venizelos leveled the accusation after a decision slated
for tonight on aid totaling 130 billion euros ($170 billion) was
postponed until Feb. 20 at the earliest.  “We are continually faced with new terms,” Venizelos told
reporters in  Athens  today. “In the euro area, there are plenty
who don’t want us anymore. There are some playing with fire,
domestically and abroad. Some are playing with torches and some
are playing with matches. But the risk is equally great.”  The euro has weakened 0.9 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The dollar rose 1 percent and
the yen dropped 0.1 percent amid signs the euro region’s debt
crisis is easing.  ‘Lot of Posturing’  Paulson & Co., the $23 billion hedge fund run by  John Paulson , said the euro is structurally flawed and will
eventually fall apart, according to a letter the firm sent to
its investors obtained by Bloomberg. The collapse may be
triggered by a Greek default, which would then throw the world
into recession and financial disorder.  “There’s a lot of posturing going on in the euro zone,”
said  Thomas Molloy , chief dealer at FX Solutions, an online
currency trading company, in Saddle River,  New Jersey . “There
is a lot of market speculation in the background that a lot of
officials outside of Greece are trying to get Greece to just
pull out of the euro zone.”  China will invest in  Europe ’s bailout funds and maintain
its holdings of the region’s assets, central bank Governor Zhou
Xiaochuan said today in Beijing. With the world’s largest
foreign-exchange reserves of $3.18 trillion, the Asian nation
has previously signaled it wants to diversify the holdings away
from dollar-denominated assets.  China Holdings  The largest foreign lender to the U.S., China decreased its
 holdings  of  Treasury securities  $31.9 billion, or 2.8 percent,
to $1.1 trillion in December, Treasury Department data showed
today. The amount is the lowest since 2010.  International demand for U.S.  financial assets  cooled in
December as optimism Europe would resolve its debt crisis
reduced the appeal of Treasuries as a safe haven. Net buying of
long-term equities, notes and bonds totaled $17.9 billion during
the month, compared with net purchases of $61.3 billion the
previous month.  The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which Intercontinental Exchange Inc. uses
to track the greenback against the currencies of six major U.S.
trading partners, pared gains after minutes of the Fed’s Jan.
24-25 meeting showed a few members of the  Federal Open Market
Committee  said economic conditions “could warrant the
initiation of additional securities purchases before long.”  The gauge, which is weighted 57.6 percent to the euro, was
0.4 percent stronger at 79.680.  The moving average  convergence/divergence  is generating
sell signals for the Australian and New Zealand dollars, the
British pound and Canada’s dollar against the greenback, and
indicate the euro is “flirting” with such an indication,
according to  Camilla Sutton , head of currency strategy at Bank
of  Nova Scotia  in Toronto.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  