-- European Stocks Fall as Moody’s Downgrades Italy, Spain Ratings
-- B y   P e t e r   L e v r i n g
-- 2012-02-14T16:59:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/european-stock-futures-slide-as-moody-s-downgrades-italy-spain-portugal.html
European (SXXP)  stocks declined, paring the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index ’s biggest rally in a week, after Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded six euro-area countries, including
Italy,  Spain  and Portugal.  ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s biggest steelmaker, fell 3.8
percent after posting a first-quarter loss following project
delays.  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  gained 1.5 percent, limiting the
Stoxx 600’s decline.  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , the biggest maker of mobile
phones, rose 2.1 percent after Nokia Siemens Networks’ Chief
Executive Officer, Rajeev Suri, was reported to say that he
doesn’t rule out holding an initial public offering.  The Stoxx 600 declined 0.2 percent to 262.56 at the close.
The gauge rallied 0.7 percent yesterday and has still advanced
 7.4 percent  this year amid optimism that the euro area will
contain its sovereign-debt crisis and as U.S. economic reports
beat forecasts.  “The fact that  France  is still Aaa, for now anyway, re-
affirms the status of the  European (SXXP)  Financial Stability
Facility,” the euro area’s temporary bailout fund, said  Chris Weston , an institutional trader at IG Markets in Melbourne.
“One suspects only modest selling will follow.”  National benchmark indexes declined in all of the 18
western-European markets today except  Italy . The U.K.’s  FTSE 100
Index  slipped 0.1 percent, while Germany’s DAX Index fell 0.2
percent. France’s CAC 40 Index lost 0.3 percent.  Italy, Spain Downgraded  Moody’s said it may strip the U.K. and France of their top
Aaa ratings, citing the euro area’s crisis. Spain was downgraded
to A3 from A1 yesterday, Italy to A3 from A2 and Portugal to Ba3
from Ba2, all with negative outlooks. Slovakia, Slovenia and
Malta also had their ratings lowered.  “Policy makers have made steps forward, but we do not
think they have done enough to reassure the market that we are
on a stable path,” said Alistair Wilson, chief credit officer
for  Europe  at Moody’s in  London . “What will guide long-term
ratings is the clarity and the performance of policy makers and
the macro picture.”  German investor confidence increased in February more than
economists had forecast, rising to a 10-month high. The ZEW
Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said its  index
of investor and analyst expectations , which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, rose to 5.4 from
minus 21.6 in January. Economists had predicted a gain to minus
11.8, according to the  median of 40 estimates  in a Bloomberg
News survey.  Italy’s Debt Sale  Italy sold 6 billion euros ($7.9 billion) of bonds at an
auction, meeting its target. The country’s borrowing costs fell
to the lowest since March even after Moody’s Investors Service
lowered its rating for the nation. Italy’s Treasury sold 4
billion euros of benchmark securities due in November 2014 to
yield 3.41 percent, down from 4.83 percent at the last auction
of similar-maturity bonds on Jan. 13. The Rome-based Treasury
also sold a total of 2 billion euros of bonds due in 2015 and
2017 to yield 3.77 percent and 4.26 percent respectively.  In the U.S.,  retail sales  rose in January by 0.4 percent,
according to a report from the Commerce Department. Last month’s
advance was half the 0.8 percent  median forecast  of economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News, reflecting an unexpected drop in
sales at car dealers. Excluding cars, demand climbed 0.7
percent, more than projected.  ThyssenKrupp Slides  ThyssenKrupp dropped 3.8 percent to 21.07 euros after
reporting  a loss before interest and taxes  of 33 million euros,
compared with a profit of 261 million euros a year earlier.  Rio Tinto Group decreased 3.1 percent to 3,727.5 pence as
the world’s  third-biggest mining company  approved a $4.5 billion
expansion of its Chilean Escondida copper mine with  BHP Billiton
Ltd. (BHP)  The mine accounts for about a fifth of all copper produced
in  Chile , the world’s top supplier of the metal.  BHP Billiton 
slipped 0.5 percent to 2,072 pence.  TDC A/S (TDC) , Denmark’s largest phone company, slid 4.3 percent
to 43.28 euros as its private-equity investors sold 750 million
euros of stock in a sale arranged by Morgan Stanley. Investors
in NTC Holding GP & Cie. SCA, the consortium of buyout firms,
sold about 128 million shares, raising 5.6 billion Danish kroner
($990 million).  Storebrand ASA (STB)  sank 14 percent to 25.40 kroner after
Norway’s largest publicly traded insurer posted  fourth-quarter
profit  that plunged and said it will pay no dividend for 2011.  Raiffeisen Bank International AG (RBI) , the biggest Eastern
European lender, retreated 5 percent to 26.50 euros as Moody’s
cut the rating outlook of Austria to “negative” from
“stable.”  Shell, Nokia Advance  Shell climbed 1.5 percent to 2,331.5 pence as  Europe’s
largest oil company  limited losses on the Stoxx 600.  Nokia rose 2.1 percent to 3.84 euros after Nokia Siemens
Networks’ CEO, Suri, did not rule out an IPO of the joint
venture between Siemens AG and Nokia, Capital magazine reported,
citing an interview.  Nokia Siemens plans to create a “strong, profitable”
company that can exist on its own, the magazine cited Suri as
saying. Management wants to make sufficient progress to make a
share sale an option for the owners, according to the magazine.  L’Oreal SA (OR)  gained 3.8 percent to 84.73 euros after the
world’s largest cosmetics maker said it’s confident of achieving
sales and earnings growth this year after reporting a 7.7
percent increase in 2011 operating profit, beating analysts’
estimates.  L’Oreal also said that Liliane Bettencourt will leave the
company’s board and be replaced by her grandson Jean-Victor Meyers. Meyers, 25, studied economics and management and is a
director of Tethys, the Bettencourt family holding company.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  added 2.4 percent to 49.94 euros after
the German bourse operator posted a  fourth-quarter profit  amid
lower costs and higher sales while announcing a stock buyback
and dividend.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Levring in Copenhagen at 
 plevring1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  