-- European Banks Losing Trading Share to U.S. as Debt Crisis Erodes Revenue
-- B y   M i c h a e l   J .   M o o r e ,   A a r o n   K i r c h f e l d   a n d   N i c h o l a s   C o m f o r t
-- 2012-02-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/european-banks-losing-trading-share-to-u-s-as-debt-crisis-erodes-revenue.html
The biggest U.S. banks captured the
highest share of global trading revenue in at least two years as
their counterparts across the Atlantic reduced risk in the
fourth quarter amid a worsening sovereign-debt crisis.  U.S. banks’ share of the total reported by the nine largest
investment banks rose to 66 percent from 56 percent a year
earlier and 60 percent in the third quarter. The increase
occurred as revenue from trading stocks, bonds and derivatives
at the five U.S. banks --  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS) , Morgan Stanley,  Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America
Corp. (BAC)  -- fell for the sixth time in the past seven quarters.  Investment banks in Europe have been aggressive in
shrinking risk-weighted assets and shutting units.  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  brought its trading risk down to the lowest since 2003, while
Zurich-based Credit Suisse Group AG took a charge of 469 million
Swiss francs ($512 million) to cut assets and exit some fixed-
income trading businesses.  “There are some trends being seen across a lot of
different competitors and across a number of business lines,
which if they play out the way it looks so far, could help the
U.S. capital-markets banks in terms of market share,” said  Guy Moszkowski , an analyst at Bank of America in  New York .  U.S. banks’ gain in trading-revenue share represents a
bigger slice of a shrinking pie. It also shows how the European
debt crisis is reshaping the banking landscape as lenders sell
businesses and seek to assure investors their funding is stable.  Trading Decline  The nine firms that reported the highest trading revenue in
2010 -- the group also includes  Barclays Plc (BACR) , Deutsche Bank,  UBS
AG (UBSN)  and Credit Suisse -- posted a 28 percent decline in the
fourth quarter, to $19.9 billion, from the same period a year
earlier. That’s less than half the $52 billion the banks
reported in the first three months of 2010. Trading revenue for
all of last year fell 16 percent.  The figures exclude the effect of accounting gains and
losses tied to the banks’ own credit spreads, known as debt-
valuation adjustments, or DVA.  The global revenue pool for fixed income may decline about
10 percent this year because of weaker customer activity,
continued challenging trading conditions and regulatory
pressures,  Kinner Lakhani , a Citigroup analyst in  London , said
in a Jan. 25 note. Equity and primary revenues are expected to
show “modest growth,” the report said.  “The 2012 outlook remains challenging not least because we
expect the sovereign crisis impact to ‘spill over’ into the
first quarter,” Lakhani wrote.  Credit Suisse, Barclays  Credit Suisse (CSGN)  posted a loss before operating expenses from
fixed-income trading in the fourth quarter, and Deutsche Bank
and London-based Barclays each reported overall trading-revenue
declines of more than 33 percent from a year earlier. Citigroup,
based in New York, was the only U.S. bank to have that large a
falloff, while Morgan Stanley was the only one of the nine firms
to show an increase.  For the full year, European banks maintained the same 39
percent share of trading revenue they had in 2010. The fourth-
quarter drop came from some one-time charges to exit businesses
and a greater reliance on the European market, which faced a
bigger decline in prices and volumes, according to  Dirk Becker ,
a Frankfurt-based analyst at Kepler Capital Markets.  “European fixed-income trading was under a lot of pressure
because of the sovereign-debt crisis,” Becker said in an
interview. “I don’t think the market-share losses will remain
forever. It was just the fourth quarter. The market has settled
in the first quarter.”  Cheap Money  The  European Central Bank  in December flooded the banking
system with cheap money to avert a credit crunch. Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc,  BNP Paribas SA (BNP)  and Societe Generale SA are
among more than 500 banks that took 489 billion euros ($645
billion) of three-year, 1 percent loans from the Frankfurt-based
ECB at an auction. The European banks among the nine biggest
trading firms said they didn’t borrow from the ECB.  Shares of the four are up 18 percent this year after
falling an average of 32 percent in 2011. The five U.S. banks
have gained an average of 29 percent after dropping 43 percent
last year.  Still, European banks are facing head winds. The euro-
region economy is expected to shrink 0.5 percent this year,
while the U.S. may expand 2.2 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Regulators in  Switzerland  also are
holding their banks to higher capital ratios than U.S. lenders
are expected to face under rules approved by the Basel Committee
on Banking Supervision, forcing them to shrink assets.  “One reason for the poorer trading performance by European
banks is they cut back risk and have to reach higher capital
levels,” said Georg Kanders, an analyst at Dusseldorf, Germany-
based WestLB AG who has “buy” ratings on Deutsche Bank and
Credit Suisse and a “neutral” on UBS.  Reducing Risk  Credit Suisse’s investment bank cut its risk-weighted
assets as defined under Basel III rules by $47 billion in the
fourth quarter and plans to trim an additional $33 billion in
the first quarter, reaching the level  targeted  for the end of
this year nine months early, the bank said last week. The risk
reductions and charges for job cuts cost the bank 981 million
francs in the period.  UBS’s investment bank shrank risk-weighted assets by about
26 billion francs in the fourth quarter. Of that, about 8
billion francs were in “core” businesses at the investment
bank and were a result of “lower market risk in our trading
book,” Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil told journalists and
analysts in Zurich last week.  ‘Resizing’ Businesses  “The Swiss banks are responding to the higher capital
requirement by resizing the trading business fairly
dramatically,” said Moszkowski of  Charlotte , North Carolina-
based Bank of America. “The U.S. banks have regulatory issues
as well. It’s really going to be a question of degree.”  European banks cut risk in the fourth quarter as Italy
changed prime ministers, Portugal’s debt rating was cut to junk
by Fitch Ratings and  Greece  struggled to reach an agreement with
bondholders on a deal to restructure its debt.  Deutsche Bank cut its average value at risk at its
corporate and investment-banking unit to 56 million euros in the
quarter, the lowest since at least 2003, company reports show.
The bank’s value at risk, or VaR, is a measure of how much it
could lose in trading in one day, with a 99 percent probability.  The bank will increase its VaR since that level isn’t
sustainable, according to CFO Stefan Krause.  “We made a conscious decision in the fourth quarter of last
year to really reduce risk,” Krause told analysts on a Feb. 2
conference call. “It did not impact our January results, as far
as I can see from this seat right now at all, because the
results are quite good and therefore not a concern at this
point.”  Reversal of Fortune  Value at risk at UBS’s investment bank fell to 36 million
francs in the fourth quarter, the lowest level in at least three
years. While the Zurich-based firm may increase VaR in the
coming quarters, it won’t be a “major” increase, Chief
Executive Officer  Sergio Ermotti , 51, said last week.  The gains by U.S. banks are a reversal of the advances
European lenders made in 2008 and 2009, when U.S. firms were
going through a credit crisis and recapitalization, according to
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  CFO Ruth Porat. U.S. banks including Merrill
Lynch & Co. and Bear Stearns Cos. generated a revenue share of
about 65 percent in 2006. That fell to 61 percent by 2010.  European banks, excluding lenders in Greece and those in
the midst of restructuring, plan to boost capital by about 98
billion euros, 26 percent more than regulators originally
required, the European Banking Authority said last week.  U.S. Opportunity  “In 2008, European banks took share from U.S. banks, and
that’s obviously when this country was going through its capital
raise focus and liquidity raise,” Porat said on a conference
call with analysts last month. “Given that European banks are
now going through similar issues, we do see this as an
opportunity to gain share.”  Morgan Stanley, based in New York, gained 6 percentage
points of trading-revenue market share, the largest year-over-
year increase in the fourth quarter of any of the nine banks.
Barclays and Credit Suisse lost the most, with each falling 5
percentage points.  Some U.S. banks don’t see the pendulum swinging back to
 Europe  anytime soon. Goldman Sachs CFO David Viniar listed
“market-share opportunities in Europe” as one of the New York-
based firm’s long-term areas of growth at an investor conference
in Miami last week.  “Some of the competitors, certainly in Europe, are getting
out of certain businesses that we’re in,” Viniar said. “That
leads to reduced capacity and more opportunities, better bid-
offer spreads, more rational pricing. It feels like it’s -- I
don’t like to use the word permanent, because everything changes
over time -- but more permanent than we’ve seen in the past.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Michael J. Moore in New York at 
 mmoore55@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Kirchfeld in Frankfurt at 
 akirchfeld@bloomberg.net ;
Nicholas Comfort in Frankfurt at 
 ncomfort1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net . 