-- BioSante Gains on Approval of Testosterone Gel: Chicago Mover
-- B y   M o l l y   P e t e r s o n
-- 2012-02-15T21:46:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/teva-biosante-s-testosterone-gel-for-men-wins-approval-from-u-s-fda.html
BioSante Pharmaceuticals Inc. (BPAX)  rose
27 percent after the testosterone replacement therapy it
developed for men won U.S. regulatory approval.  BioSante gained 21 cents to close at 97 cents in  New York .
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration announced yesterday that
it approved the transdermal gel, Bio-T-Gel. The product will be
marketed by  Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (TEVA)  of Petach Tikva,
 Israel , for men with low testosterone levels, a condition known
as  hypogonadism .  BioSante estimates the market for male testosterone
products is more than $1.2 billion in the U.S., where
hypogonadism affects as many as 5 million men. BioSante, of
Lincolnshire,  Illinois , licensed the gel to Teva, the world’s
largest generic-drug maker, and will receive milestone payments
and royalties when the drug is commercialized.  “We are pleased that Bio-T-Gel will provide another
treatment option to men suffering from low testosterone
levels,” Stephen Simes, BioSante’s president and chief
executive officer, said today in a statement. “We are confident
that Teva has the commercialization and marketing expertise to
implement a successful launch, and we look forward to Bio-T-Gel
reaching the market.”  Teva may delay sales of the drug by at least a year under a
confidential patent settlement the company reached with  Abbott
Laboratories (ABT)  in December, said Graig Suvannavejh, an analyst at
Jefferies & Co. in New York.  Delayed Royalties  “Clearly, any delay in Bio-T-Gel’s commercial launch would
necessarily push out the timing of sales-related royalties” to
BioSante, Suvannavejh said today in a note to investors.  Abbott won FDA approval in April for a testosterone product
known as AndroGel and later sued Teva, alleging that Bio-T-Gel
infringed the product’s patent. Abbott, of  Abbott Park ,
Illinois, and Teva settled the litigation in December without
disclosing the terms.  “We do not disclose launch plans,” Denise Bradley, a Teva
spokeswoman, said today in an e-mail. “However, it is public
knowledge that we entered into a confidential settlement
agreement with Abbott with an undisclosed future entry date.”  Hypogonadism can cause erectile dysfunction, infertility,
osteoporosis and muscle loss, according to the  Mayo Clinic  in
Rochester, Minnesota.  BioSante also has an experimental testosterone product,
LibiGel, a topical treatment applied to the arm for female
sexual dysfunction. The company fell 77 percent, the most in 12
years, on Dec. 15 after the drug failed to work better than a
placebo in two trials. BioSante said Jan. 31 that it would
decide within 90 days whether to continue studying LibiGel.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Molly Peterson in Washington at 
 mpeterson9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net  