-- Ex-Citigroup Trader Denies Wrongdoing in Tibor Probe
-- B y   J e s s e   W e s t b r o o k   a n d   S h i g e r u   S a t o
-- 2012-02-16T13:49:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/ex-citigroup-trading-chief-cecere-denies-wrongdoing-in-tibor-fixing-case.html
(Corrects to remove time reference in eighth paragraph.)  An ex- Citigroup Inc. (C)  executive
accused in a probe by Japanese regulators of suspected interest-
rate manipulation denied wrongdoing and said authorities never
questioned him before they issued findings.  Christopher Cecere, who worked for Citigroup in Tokyo as
head of G10 trading and sales for Asia until 2010, was
identified as “Director A” in a Dec. 16  administrative  case by
Japan’s Financial Services Agency, according to two people with
knowledge of the inquiry. The agency said Director A and another
Citigroup trader engaged in “seriously unjust and malicious”
conduct by asking bankers to alter data they submitted while
setting a benchmark Japanese lending rate. Japan’s FSA penalized
the firm and took no action against the employees.  During Citigroup’s internal investigation, the New York-
based bank didn’t question Cecere about his conduct or indicate
to him that it suspected he had acted improperly, he said in a
Feb. 10 phone interview. Regulators also didn’t seek his version
of events, he said. He left the firm in good standing, he said.
He later joined Brevan Howard Asset Management LLP, a London-
based hedge fund that manages about $33 billion.  Japan ’s regulators were the first to announce findings as
authorities in Asia,  Europe  and the U.S. conduct widening
inquiries into whether employees at some of the world’s biggest
banks sought to manipulate the  London , Tokyo and euro interbank
offered rates, known as Libor, Tibor and Euribor, respectively.
The rates were used by investors to gauge the ability of firms
to borrow money at the height of the 2008 credit crisis and can
play a key role in derivatives trades.  British Bankers’ Association  Libor, a benchmark for about $360 trillion of financial
products worldwide, is derived from a survey of banks conducted
daily for the British Bankers’ Association in London. The
lenders are asked how much it would cost them to borrow from one
another for 15 different periods, from overnight to one year, in
currencies including dollars, euros, yen and Swiss francs. After
a predetermined number of quotes are excluded, those left are
averaged and published for each currency by the BBA before noon.  According to the findings of Japan’s FSA, Director A
repeatedly approached a Citigroup employee responsible for
submitting rates for Tibor at least as far back as April 2010.
Another employee, called Trader B, also approached people at
other banks, the agency said. The pair sought to influence Tibor
to benefit their derivatives transactions, the FSA said, without
specifying whether they succeeded in changing the benchmark.  While Cecere asserted his innocence, he declined to comment
on the FSA’s description of events, including whether he pressed
someone to change rates for Tibor, saying he has no insight into
the watchdog’s investigation or findings.  Write-Off  Citigroup was forced to write off $50 million as it exited
trades made by Tokyo-based employees, a person familiar with the
matter said last week. Thomas Hayes, a Tokyo-based trader for
Citigroup, was dismissed for suspected involvement in the rate
manipulation, according to two people familiar with the case.
Contact information for Hayes couldn’t be found.  Cecere said the holdings that Citigroup recorded losses on
were one of many businesses that reported to him in his role
overseeing sales and trading units in Asia.  Banks including Citigroup, London-based  Barclays Plc (BARC)  and
 UBS AG (UBSN)  approached authorities with information about potential
abuse of the rate-setting process after discovering e-mails or
other evidence during internal probes, the Financial Times
reported last week, citing people familiar with the matter.  Regulators Investigate  Regulators are investigating whether rate bids were low-
balled during the financial crisis, if traders at banks and
hedge funds sought to influence rate-setters to profit on
interest-rate derivatives and whether traders received advanced
word about which direction rates would move, the FT reported,
without saying how it got the information.  Japan’s FSA said in December that Citigroup’s local
securities unit would be banned from trading tied to the London
and Tokyo interbank offered rates for two weeks from Jan. 10.  Toshiharu Mashita, a spokesman for the FSA, declined to
elaborate on the regulator’s December report. The watchdog
didn’t interview Cecere or Hayes during its inquiry because both
had left Citigroup, according to a person briefed on the case.  Mika Nemoto, a Tokyo-based spokeswoman for Citigroup,
declined to comment on Cecere’s remarks.  The agency also faulted Citigroup for allowing Director A
to trade derivatives since Nov. 12, 2009, without first
registering him as a Class-1 sales representative with the Japan
Securities Dealers Association, the agency said. Director A
wasn’t registered until June 16, 2010, it said.  Citigroup Review  Investigators had disagreed with Citigroup’s internal
review. The FSA accused the bank of sending Japan’s Securities
and Exchange Surveillance Commission a report on the Libor
incidents that failed to describe how its employees had sought
to manipulate Tibor and that relied on “an untruthful
description” to draw conclusions. The agency didn’t elaborate.  Japan’s FSA is handling the international investigation of
firms along with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission,
Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Department of Justice,
and the U.K. Financial Services Authority. European Union
antitrust regulators and the Swiss Competition Commission also
are examining Libor rates.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jesse Westbrook in Washington at 
 jwestbrook1@bloomberg.net ;
Shigeru Sato in  Tokyo  at 
 ssato10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  