-- Ex-Citigroup CEO Says Volcker Rule Needs ‘Severe Penalties’
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n
-- 2012-02-14T19:19:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/ex-citigroup-ceo-reed-says-volcker-rule-needs-pay-curbs-severe-penalties.html
John S. Reed, who helped engineer
the merger that created  Citigroup Inc. (C) , said the U.S. should
make the proposed Volcker rule stronger by targeting bank
traders’ pay and using “severe penalties” to enforce it.  Regulators should ensure traders are paid “based on the
results of their market-making and hedging activities after
those positions are fully unwound,” Reed wrote in a  letter  to
regulators yesterday. There should be “specific and vigorous
penalties for individual traders, management and firms” who
don’t comply with the new regulations, Reed wrote.  The letter from Reed, 73, was among comments filed
yesterday with regulators who are finalizing the Volcker rule,
which bans banks that accept deposits from trading that could
put their firms at risk and create another financial crisis.
Lenders including New York-based Citigroup,  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  have called for revisions amid
concern that the rule could harm profits.  “A strong Volcker rule is one of the most important
provisions to prevent “too big to fail” financial
institutions, stop conflicts of interest and support credit in
our economy,” Reed wrote. “Failure to comply should be
severely punished.”  CEO Sign-Off  Reed said the proposed Volcker rule should be strengthened
by requiring chief executive officers to sign a statement each
quarter affirming that they are complying. Reed, 73, who held
CEO titles at Citigroup and its predecessor from 1984 to 2000,
sent the letter from the bank’s premises at 425 Park Avenue in
New York, where he keeps an office. The company is now the
third-largest lender in the U.S. by assets.  Regulators must change how traders are paid to prevent
abuse of the activities that the Volcker rule still permits,
Reed wrote. This includes market-making, when a trader acts as a
matchmaker for buyers and sellers, and hedging, when a trader
seeks to minimize losses from another trade.  Banks should adjust pay by risk or tie performance to a
benchmark, such as an index of the assets involved, he said.
Properly crafted, the rule would allow traders to get paid
appropriately while encouraging them to get out of positions as
soon as possible and discouraging them from carrying inventory,
according to Reed.  Pressure on Pay  “Without strong rules that align interests, we will see
another race to the bottom,” Reed wrote. “Traders, management
directors and even shareholders will seek to game even the best-
written rules governing permitted trading in the hope that they
can attain the supersized rewards made possible by high-risk
investments.”  The curbs could put more downward pressure on compensation
for  Wall Street , where firms already are slashing pay packages
and changing compensation formulas as they grapple with lower
revenue. Some are giving less cash and more stock, or deferring
a greater percentage of total pay. Citigroup cut bonuses for
investment bankers by an average of 30 percent, a person briefed
on the matter has said.  Molly Millerwise Meiners, a spokeswoman for the bank,
declined to comment on Reed’s letter. Citigroup filed its own
comment letter saying the proposal “should be recalibrated to
make it simpler, less burdensome to implement, and most
importantly, consistent with preserving the functioning of
global trading markets.”  Reed’s letter was addressed to the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency, the  Federal Reserve , the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., the Securities and Exchange Commission
and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  Building Citigroup  The rule, named after former Fed Chairman  Paul Volcker , was
included in the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act in an effort to restrict
risky trading at banks that operate with U.S. guarantees.
Regulators released the 298-page proposal seeking comment on how
it would affect market-making, liquidity, foreign institutions
and private equity and hedge funds.  Citigroup formed in 1998 when Reed’s Citicorp, a commercial
bank, combined with Sanford I. Weill’s Travelers Group Inc.,
which owned the investment firm Salomon Smith Barney Holdings
Inc. The merger went ahead after repeal of the Depression-era
 Glass-Steagall Act , which had separated traditional banks from
those involved in  capital markets .  Rebuilding the Wall  Reed has since said this was wrong and apologized for his
role in building Citigroup, which  lost $29.3 billion  in 2008 and
2009 combined, much of it tied to subprime mortgage bonds. Reed,
whose tenure as CEO overlapped with Volcker’s at the Fed, wrote
to the regulators yesterday he supports the propsed rule’s
“efforts to establish a modernized Glass-Steagall wall between
traditional client-oriented banking and the high-risk trading
activities that helped cause the collapse of the world’s
financial system.”  The Volcker rule is set to take effect in July even if the
rule-making is still in progress, and would include a two-year
transition period. The Federal Reserve would then have the
ability to issue multiple one-year implementation extensions on
a case-by-case basis.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Donal Griffin in  New York  at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 