-- Ex-LBO Lawyer Sees $30,000 Suit for Bankers, LeBron: Interview
-- B y   P a t r i c k   C o l e
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/ex-lbo-lawyer-sees-30-000-suit-for-bankers-lebron-interview.html
As a private-equity lawyer at
 Kirkland & Ellis  LLP, Duncan Quinn favored custom-tailored
suits. His idea of a hobby was to open a Manhattan boutique in
2003.  He says he sold $2,000 in shirts the first day.  Four years later, the London-born Quinn quit finance to
hawk the kind of suits he loved, those with Savile Row quality
and a little sass.  Today his stores in New York and Miami serve a client list
of more than 1,000 paying $4,000 to $30,000 a suit. Customers
include hedge-fund managers, basketball star  LeBron James ,
alternative rockers  Green Day  and actor Adrian Grenier.  Amid the hoopla of New York Fashion Week, Quinn remains
more than a few stitches away from the fashionistas. He preaches
that fashion can be fickle, while bespoke never lets you
down. Clad in a $7,200 three-piece plaid suit he designed
himself, Quinn outlined his style rules on a weathered bench
outside his Spring Street  store .  Cole: Do you dress differently now from your leveraged-
buyout days?  Quinn: I was the guy who didn’t dress down for dress-down
Fridays and always abhorred tan-colored chinos and blue Oxford
shirts that buttoned down at the collar. So I more or less wear
the same clothing now as I did when I was closing private-equity
deals. I like timeless elegance with a little mischief and rock
n’ roll thrown into the mix.  Cole: How many suits do you own?  Quinn: Too many, and yet never enough.  Hard Times  Cole: Your father was a fan of bespoke suits. What was the
most important piece of advice he gave you about fashion?  Quinn: He was a hard man who grew up in  hard times . An
orange was a gift for the holidays you cherished. You walked
miles to school with a hot baked potato in your pocket to keep
your hands warm and so you had lunch.  If anything, he instilled in me that if you buy the good
stuff with style it lasts, and it’s better to do that than waste
your money on cheap rubbish.  Cole: Why in the world should one pay $30,000 for a suit?  Quinn: Because they can? More seriously, the fabric is
simply the best of the best. You could buy a $1 sandwich instead
of that $50 truffle burger. The fact of the matter is that the
$1 sandwich just won’t move your soul the way the $50 truffle
burger does.  Fabric of Kings  Cole: What is your $30,000 suit made of?  Quinn: It’s made of a fabric called Guanashina, literally
the choice of kings. Its three main components are kid pashmina,
reserved for Mongolian royalty, a caliber of baby cashmere only
obtained from the brushing of the soft under-fleece of 18-month-
old goats bred only in inner Mongolia, and Guanaco, the yarn of
choice for the coronation robes of Incan royalty.  Cole: What qualities must a suit have before you put it on?  Quinn: It has to be properly made, it has to fit its
purpose, it has to have character, it has to be timeless and it
has to fit me.  Cole: What is your starting point for design when say, a
Wall Street trader comes to your shop and asks for a suit?  Quinn: Finding out who he is and what he wants the suit
for. It could be to poke a finger at the guys on his desk, to
hit up a particular establishment, or it could be for a
particular event. Just as you use different weapons for
different situations, you need different attire to achieve
different goals.  Old Breitlings  Cole: You’re wearing a three-piece, single-button plaid-
cashmere-and-wool suit. Why and what does it say to someone
looking at it?  Quinn: I enjoy things with character, and I like color. The
cloth this suit is cut from is from Naples, and I guess reflects
a rather more playful approach to life. On some level it’s all
about messages. You have to be confident to pull this suit off,
and not be too concerned about standing out.  Cole: Your watch looks old.  Quinn: For some reason I’m drawn to old  Breitlings . They
went through a dodgy patch in the 1980s and 1990s, but I think
they’re somewhat back on track now.  Cole: I didn’t smell any cologne on you. Can a well-dressed
man do without wearing fragrance?  Quinn: You needn’t wear an overt fragrance, and it’s
entirely up to you. For me, it’s been  Roger & Gallet ’s Eau de
Gingembre for the past 15 years.  Cole: What’s the most important part of your wardrobe? The
suit, the shirt or the tie?  Quinn: The man.  To contact the writer on this story:
Patrick Cole in  New York  at 
 pcole3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in New York at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 