-- Ex-Penn State’s Schultz Seeks Dismissal of Perjury Charge in Sandusky Case
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/ex-penn-state-official-seeks-to-dismiss-perjury-charge-in-sandusky-case.html
Gary Schultz , one of the former
Pennsylvania State University officials accused of lying to a
grand jury in the Jerry Sandusky sexual-abuse case, asked a
state court judge to dismiss the perjury charge against him.  A preliminary hearing in the case failed to establish
sufficient evidence for Schultz to stand trial on that charge,
attorney Thomas Farrell said yesterday in court papers in
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.  “The testimony at issue states opinions that are not
capable of being proven knowingly false,” Farrell wrote.  Schultz, a former vice president in charge of university
police, and  Penn State  Athletics Director Timothy Curley are
charged with lying to a grand jury about a 2002 sex-abuse
allegation against Sandusky and failing to report the incident
to police. A judge ruled in December that there was enough
evidence for the case to proceed to trial.  Sandusky, 68, a former defensive coordinator for Penn
State, is charged with more than 50 counts stemming from alleged
abuse of boys over a 15-year period. He is scheduled to go on
trial May 14.  The case led to last year’s firings of university President
 Graham Spanier  and coach  Joe Paterno , who headed the football
program at Penn State for 46 years. Paterno died last month.  Paterno’s Death  Curley cited Paterno’s death in a separate request
yesterday for the perjury count against him to be dismissed. He
said there was no longer corroboration of the allegation, as the
law requires.  Prosecutors plan to rely on testimony from Penn State
assistant football coach  Mike McQueary  to support their perjury
case against Schultz and Curley.  McQueary testified at the preliminary hearing that he told
university officials that he saw Sandusky molesting a boy in a
locker room shower in March 2002.  In court papers yesterday, Farrell argued that McQueary’s
testimony, and that of his father and Paterno, support Schultz’s
own account in the grand jury. Schultz testified that the
allegations against Sandusky at the time were vague and gave no
indication that a crime had occurred.  Nils Frederiksen, a spokesman for Attorney General Linda Kelly, said yesterday that the defense request was being
reviewed.  The case is Commonwealth of  Pennsylvania  v. Schultz, CP-22-
CR-5164-2011, Court of Common Pleas of Dauphin County,
Pennsylvania (Harrisburg).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 