-- Texas Voter Districting Map Battle Eludes Settlement, U.S. Court Is Told
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s ,   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g   a n d   T r a v i s   P o l i n g
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/texas-tells-court-no-settlement-in-sight-in-dispute-over-election-maps.html
Lawyers for the state of  Texas  said
they failed to reach an agreement with minorities on state
electoral maps, which may further delay the state’s primary
elections scheduled for April 3.  The state and the minority groups fighting over the lines
drawn by the Republican-controlled Legislature for the 2012
elections told a panel of judges yesterday in San Antonio they
were still far from a consensus and had “insurmountable”
issues on at least one proposed congressional district.  “With the larger groups of the plaintiffs, we won’t be
able to come up with a solution,” David Mattax, a Texas deputy
attorney general, said during an all-day hearing.  U.S. District Judge Orlando Garcia and two other federal
judge, who pushed for a resolution that would make primaries
possible in April, are creating temporary voter districts that
can be used in the state’s 2012 elections while legal challenges
continue.  “If we delay and don’t have an April primary, that delays
the political process and the ability of the parties to have
their conventions,” Garcia said during the hearing.  The six-month redistricting fight has already created
delays that knocked Texas out of the influential March 6 Super
Tuesday presidential primaries. More Americans vote in primaries
or caucuses on that date than on any other.  April Primary  Timothy Mellett, a  Justice Department  lawyer, told the
judges that the government objects to an April primary, arguing
that federal law requires states to provide military and
overseas voters at least 45 days to return their ballots.  Jacqueline Callahan, elections administrator for Bexar
County, answered questions from the judges on the implications
of various primary dates. She said if county elections officials
had the interim maps by March 3, the primaries could reasonably
be held May 29. Any earlier would cause counties to be in
violation of federal laws or state laws, she said.  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  ruled in January that interim voter
maps the San Antonio judges created last year weren’t
deferential enough to maps drawn by the Texas Legislature. The
high court told the panel to try again, using the lawmakers’
boundaries as the starting point.  Compromise Districts  Last week, the  San Antonio  judges ordered the litigants to
work through the weekend on compromise districts so the judges
can quickly create new maps. The parties were also ordered to
keep negotiating at the federal courthouse in San Antonio and
representatives from the various parties and both houses of the
Texas Legislature told the panel they would have representatives
with settlement authority in attendance.  Texas advised the San Antonio judges on Feb. 13 that the
sides were getting closer to agreement on many boundaries,
particularly in state legislative districts. Significant
sticking points remained that “may prevent a global compromise
on the Congressional map,” according to the state’s filing.  The Legislature carved out four new U.S. congressional
districts to accommodate the 4.3 million residents the 2010  U.S.
Census  found the state added since 2000. Hispanics, who more
often vote for Democrats than Republicans, accounted for about
65 percent of the growth. Republican Governor  Rick Perry 
approved the maps.  Threatened Lawmakers  Latinos and lawmakers whose jobs were threatened by the
Legislature’s new maps sued over claims Republicans distorted
districts to prevent the election of minorities, in violation of
the Voting Rights Act. Republicans claimed they didn’t
discriminate and are legally permitted to draw lines that favor
the elected political majority.  The San Antonio judges last month urged a different federal
three-judge panel in Washington to rule quickly on a lawsuit
Texas brought in July seeking so-called pre-clearance for its
new maps under the voting act. Approval of such changes,
required for states with a history of voting-rights violations,
can be obtained directly from the Justice Department or through
litigation.  The U.S. objects to two proposed congressional districts
and five state assembly districts.  After the  Washington  panel said it doesn’t anticipate a
decision on pre-clearance until next month, Garcia said in a
Feb. 2 order that his court won’t wait for that ruling and will
announce interim maps first.  Key Considerations  Garcia said at a hearing last month that the San Antonio
panel must balance two key considerations in addition to
creating voter boundaries that don’t discriminate.  The first is holding primaries early enough so that Texans’
votes count in the presidential selection process and so
political parties can select delegates for their state
conventions based on those primary results.  Both Republicans and Democrats are set to hold their Texas
political conventions in early June, on dates and in locations
committed to years ago. Texas Republican Party Chairman Steve
Munisteri told the court last month the state political parties
may go bankrupt if they’re forced to reschedule thousands of
hotel rooms and meeting places.  The second consideration is whether to split Texas’s
primaries so that the presidential primary is held in April and
primaries for all other offices are held later, after new
congressional and state legislative district boundaries have
been made final, Garcia said.  The Texas case is Perez v. Perry, 5:11-cv-00360, U.S.
District Court, Western District of Texas (San Antonio). The
Washington case is Texas v. U.S., 1:11-cv-01303, U.S. District
Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington). The appellate case is
Perry v. Perez, 11-713 (Congressional map), U.S. Supreme Court.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in San Antonio
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington
at   tschoenberg@bloomberg.net ;
Travis Poling in San Antonio at 
 poling.travis@att.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 