-- MF Global Parent Trustee to Share Some Information in ‘Public Interest’
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y
-- 2012-02-14T21:47:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/mf-global-holdings-to-share-some-data-in-public-interest-1-.html
MF Global Holdings Ltd (MFGLQ) . will share
some information about the company’s communications in the final
days before its bankruptcy to satisfy the “public interest,”
its Chapter 11 trustee said.  Louis Freeh , the trustee, continues to assert attorney-
client privilege for certain information, according to papers
filed today in  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  in  Manhattan . Freeh agreed
to waive the privilege for documents, communications or
information on certain subjects from Oct. 17 to Oct. 31, when
the company filed for bankruptcy.  “The court has determined that it is in the public
interest for the above-referenced documents, communications and
information related to the foregoing subject matters also to be
made available to the governmental authorities,” lawyers for
Freeh wrote in court papers.  A judge also found it to be in the public interest for the
information to be shared with James Giddens, who was appointed
under the Securities Investor Protection Act to oversee a
related wind-down of the company’s former brokerage unit, MF
Global Inc. The information sharing relates to subjects
including the segregation of funds at MF Global Inc., according
to court papers.  Helping Investigations  “We applaud the decision by Mr. Freeh,”  Kent Jarrell , a
spokesman for Giddens, said in a statement. “We had been
working with Freeh’s office since December to try to get an
agreement, which will help all the investigations currently
under way into the demise of MF Global.”  Congress, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the
Securities and Exchange Commission and U.S. attorneys offices in
New York and  Chicago  also have been investigating MF Global.  MF Global Holdings (MFGLQ) , run by former  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) 
co-chairman Jon Corzine until his Nov. 4 resignation, filed the
eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy after a wrong-way $6.3 billion
trade on its own behalf on bonds of some of  Europe ’s most
indebted nations. Its bankruptcy filing listed assets of
$41 billion and debt of $39.7 billion.  While Freeh is overseeing distributions to creditors
through the Chapter 11 bankruptcy, Giddens is handling returns
to customers through a process mandated by the Securities
Investor Protection Act.  The brokerage case is Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York (Manhattan). The parent’s bankruptcy case
is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059, U.S. Bankruptcy Court,
Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  