-- Facebook Awarded $75,777 in Legal Fees
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-02-15T01:31:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/facebook-awarded-75-777-in-legal-fees.html
Facebook Inc. was awarded $75,777 in
legal fees after a judge ruled that  Paul Ceglia  ignored a
pretrial discovery order to turn over e-mail accounts in his
ownership claim against the social network.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Leslie Foschio in Buffalo,  New York ,
today gave Facebook most of the $84,196 it claimed as
reimbursement for the 177 hours spent by its lawyers in filing
motions to force Ceglia to comply with the order. Ceglia has
already paid a $5,000 fine imposed by Foschio.  Ceglia claims he has a 2003 contract signed by Facebook co-
founder  Mark Zuckerberg  that gave him half-ownership of the
company, now worth an estimated $82.3 billion, according to
Sharespost.com, which tracks nonpublic companies. Facebook,
based in  Menlo Park ,  California , operates the most popular
social-networking site in the world.  Foschio rejected arguments by Ceglia that the fees claimed
by Facebook were “stratospheric” and not justified by the
“garden-variety” issues presented by the case. He said he cut
the amount claimed by Facebook by 10 percent to trim any excess
time that may have been included.  Foschio denied Facebook’s request for an order barring
Ceglia from going forward with the case before he pays the
attorneys fees.  Ceglia’s lawyer, Dean Boland of Lakewood,  Ohio , said the
court can expect Ceglia to comply with all its orders in the
future. Boland took over as Ceglia’s lead counsel in the case in
October, after Facebook claimed Ceglia had violated the
discovery order.  “Once the court orders you to do something, you do it,”
Boland said.  Facebook filed papers with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission Feb. 1. to raise $5 billion in an initial public
offering.  The case is Ceglia v. Zuckerberg, 1:10-cv-00569, U.S.
District Court, Western District of New York (Buffalo).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 