-- Falcone’s Harbinger Seeking to Sell Ferrous Stake to Repay Jefferies Loan
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   J e s s e   R i s e b o r o u g h
-- 2012-02-14T21:33:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/falcone-s-harbinger-seeking-to-sell-ferrous-stake-to-repay-jefferies-loan.html
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC, the
New York-based hedge fund run by billionaire Phil Falcone, is
seeking to sell shares in Brazilian  iron-ore  producer  Ferrous
Resources Ltd.  to raise cash for loan repayments.  Harbinger Capital Master Fund’s 19.5 percent holding in
Ferrous will be “marketed to investors immediately,” according
to loan documents seen by Bloomberg News. The proceeds will be
used to repay a $190 million loan Harbinger got Jan. 30 from
Jefferies Group Inc., according to the documents. It didn’t
specify whether Harbinger, owner of 26 percent of Ferrous, would
seek to sell its remaining stake.  Falcone, whose hedge fund tumbled by almost half last year
because of a troubled wireless venture, is paying 15 percent
interest on the loan, according to two people with knowledge of
the terms. Ferrous has been looking for a strategic partner to
help finance its Brazilian projects since at least 2009, having
shelved plans in June 2010 for a $400 million initial public
offering in  London  because of fluctuating equity markets.  The fund values Ferrous at $3.13 a share, or $486 million
for the stake held by the Harbinger Capital Master Fund, the
documents that describe the loan show.  Harbinger’s interest rate is almost triple what the
riskiest corporate borrowers pay, the people said last week.
Mike Sitrick, a spokesman for Harbinger, declined to comment.  Proposed Takeover  In December, Ferrous proposed a $2.3 billion takeover of
rival MMX Mineracao & Metalicos SA, the Rio de Janeiro-based
iron-ore producer controlled by Brazilian billionaire  Eike Batista , according to a letter detailing the plan obtained by
Bloomberg News. The companies held “several discussions” on a
merger during the past 18 months, the letter shows. MMX said on
Jan. 19 that it’s not interested in a Ferrous merger.  Ferrous is competing with miners including Anglo American
Plc and MMX in expanding iron-ore projects in  Brazil , the
world’s second-largest exporter of the steelmaking ingredient,
to meet rising Chinese demand. The company based in  Belo
Horizonte , Brazil, produced its first ore last year.  Ferrous appointed Jayme Nicolato Correa, a former mining
director at Brazilian steelmaker Cia. Siderurgica Nacional SA,
as chief executive officer to replace Mozart Litwinski, a person
familiar with the situation said last week, declining to be
named because there was no public announcement by the company
yet. Litwinski resigned to dedicate more time to his family and
personal business, Ferrous said on Jan. 19.  Ferrous has six mines in the largest iron ore producing
region in Brazil, Minas Gerais state, and had $252 million in
cash and no debt as of Sept. 30, the documents said.  Jefferies can liquidate collateral for the loan if shares
in  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , a publicly traded company that is 50
percent-owned by the hedge fund, trade below $2.81 a share for
five consecutive days, according to the documents. It currently
trades at $4.86.  Shares fell as much as 8 percent on the news and closed at
$4.86.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Jesse Riseborough in London at 
 jriseborough@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
John Pickering at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  