-- Fed Should Heed Lessons of 1920 Recession Response, Grant Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-02-14T15:56:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/fed-should-heed-lessons-of-1920-s-recession-policy-grant-says-tom-keene.html
The U.S. has been “overmedicated”
by public policy and should consider the government’s 1920’s
response to recession, said  James Grant , editor of Grant’s
Interest Rate Observer.  Responding to a severe economic downturn from 1920 to 1921,
the  Federal Reserve  increased  interest rates  and the national
budget was balanced, moves that kept the painful recession
short, New York-based Grant said. In contrast, he said U.S.
policy makers are prolonging the pain of the so-called Great
Recession by intervening in markets and running unprecedented
federal budget deficits.  “The Fed is not content to let interest rates find their
levels, they must repress them, and they are not content to let
housing prices find their levels, they seek to intervene to prop
them up,” Grant said in a radio interview on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with Ken Prewitt and Tom Keene. “The results of
all this intervention is not to cure what ails us, but prolongs
the symptoms of what distresses us.”  In January, the Fed extended its pledge to keep the target
rate for overnight loan between banks near zero, as more than
two years of economic growth have failed to push unemployment
below 8.3 percent.  “Economic conditions -- including low rates of resource
utilization and a subdued outlook for inflation over the medium
run -- are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the
federal funds rate at least through late 2014,” the  Federal
Open Market Committee  said in a statement on Jan. 25.  Bernanke’s Tolerance  The decision bolstered speculation that Fed Chairman  Ben S.
Bernanke  will tolerate faster gains in consumer prices. The Fed
set an annual inflation target of 2 percent and policy makers
suggested they may conduct a third round of bond purchases under
a policy known as quantitative easing.  “What is discouraging about the Great Recession is that it
seems not to end,” Grant said. “The historical comparison is
useful to invite us all to consider the present day orthodoxy
and if it is possible that it is wrong. I think that it might be
wrong.”  The  U.S. Treasury  should begin to issue longer-dated bonds
backed by gold and investors should also buy gold as it is
“something substantial,” Grant said. The bond bull market of
the past 30 years has made investors complacent to the risk of
owning bonds, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
 Tom Keene  in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  