-- Felda Targets $6.9B Market Value in Malaysia
-- B y   M a n i r a j a n   R a m a s a m y   a n d   R a n j e e t h a   P a k i a m
-- 2012-02-14T04:55:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/felda-targets-6-9b-market-value-in-malaysia.html
Felda Global Ventures Holdings Bhd. ,
 Malaysia ’s biggest plantation operator, aims to file documents
this week for the nation’s biggest initial share sale in more
than a year, the parent company’s chairman said.  The palm oil, cocoa and rubber producer may have a market
capitalization of about 21 billion ringgit ($6.9 billion) upon
listing, Mohd Isa Abdul Samad, head of Felda Holdings Bhd., said
in a telephone interview yesterday, confirming a Bernama report.
Kuala Lumpur-based Felda Global should be listing on May 10, he
said, without disclosing the amount the unit is seeking to raise.  Felda Global aims to raise at least $1 billion, two people
with knowledge of the matter said Oct. 24. That would be
Malaysia’s third-biggest offering, after  Maxis Bhd. (MAXIS)  in 2009 and
 Petronas Chemicals Group Bhd.’s (PCHEM)  record 12.8 billion-ringgit IPO
in 2010. The share sale follows government calls for larger
local companies to list.  “Felda can achieve the market capitalization target, given
that the fact that commodity plays in the region are still
considered quite attractive,” Ker Chung Yang, an analyst at
Phillip Futures Pte., said by phone from Singapore. “Rubber and
palm oil -- these are the things that can attract the foreign
investors. It’s an industry that’s booming.”  Global Coordinators  Morgan Stanley, CIMB Investment Bank Bhd. and Maybank
Investment Bank will be joint global coordinators, the people
said, asking not to be identified as the information was private.
Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. will help as book
runners, they said.  Felda Global had aimed to file its draft prospectus with
the Securities Commission on Feb. 10, Isa said, without
explaining the delay.  The IPO will create a “blue-chip” and “global
conglomerate” that will attract international investors to the
Malaysian stock market, Prime Minister Najib Razak said in a
speech announcing the share sale on Oct. 7.  Felda Global manages  palm oil  and rubber estates for
Federal Land Development Authority, a Malaysian government
agency. It has more than 880,000 hectares (2.2 million acres) of
estates and has businesses in the U.S., Canada,  Australia ,  China ,
Pakistan, Sri Lanka and South Africa, according to its website.  The company is also the largest shareholder of  MSM Malaysia
Holdings Bhd. (MSM) , the Southeast Asian nation’s biggest sugar
refiner.  Sime Darby Bhd., (SIME)  the world’s biggest listed palm oil
producer, has a market capitalization of about 57.9 billion
ringgit, with a total landbank of 873,222 hectares in Malaysia,
Indonesia and Liberia, according to its website. Sime also has
operations in property, industrial equipment, motors, energy and
utilities, and healthcare.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Manirajan Ramasamy in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rmanirajan@bloomberg.net ;
Ranjeetha Pakiam in Kuala Lumpur at 
 rpakiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
James Poole in  Singapore  at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net ;
Rebecca Keenan in  Hong Kong  at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  