-- Fidelity, Vanguard, Pimco Say U.S. Inflation Will Be Contained in 2012
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-02-14T06:34:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/fidelity-sees-u-s-inflation-contained-as-slowing-growth-caps-wage-gains.html
Fidelity Investments , Vanguard Group
Inc. and Pacific Investment Management Co., which together
oversee $4.53 trillion, say U.S. inflation will be contained
this year.  Slowing global economic growth will curb price gains,
according to Joanna Bewick, a portfolio manager for the Fidelity
Strategic Income, Strategic Dividend and Income, and Strategic
Real Return funds. Unemployment has prevented wages from rising,
Bewick wrote in a  report  yesterday on the Boston-based company’s
website.  “Inflation is likely to remain in check,” according to
Bewick. “As long as we’re in this period of getting our
economic house in order, I think it’s going to be hard to make
the case for an overheating economy.”  Treasury traders increased bets that borrowing rates will
stay low in the years ahead after Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said signs of improving growth mask threats to the
 U.S. economy . The cost to exchange fixed- for floating-rate
payments in a decade has averaged 3.39 percent this year. The
so-called forward 10-year swap rate has fallen from last year’s
peak of 5.47 percent in February.  Global economic growth will slow to 2.17 percent this year
from 2.71 percent in 2011, according to Bloomberg surveys of
economists. The U.S. jobless rate fell to 8.3 percent in
January, the least since February 2009.  Wages Still ‘Depressed’  “It’s tough for the employee to ask for a raise when there
are so many people who would love to have that job at the going
rate,” according Bewick, who helps oversee $1.52 trillion for
Fidelity. “Wages are still pretty depressed, and I don’t think
we’re in danger of any sort of wage-price spiral.”  The  difference  between yields on U.S. 10-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader
expectations for consumer prices over the life of the debt,
widened to 2.25 percentage points yesterday. It was the most in
almost six months. The 10-year average is 2.14 percentage
points.  The U.S. consumer price index, or CPI, rose 3 percent in
December from the year before, according to a Labor Department
report Jan. 19. The odds of the figure averaging 5 percent or
more over the next decade are about 10 percent, according to
Vanguard, the world’s biggest mutual fund company overseeing
$1.65 trillion.  ‘Well Contained’  “I’m not currently losing sleep over the prospect for
runaway U.S. inflation,” Joe Davis, the chief economist for
 Valley Forge , Pennsylvania-based Vanguard, wrote on the
company’s  website  Feb. 6. “It’s reasonable to expect U.S. CPI
inflation to remain well contained for the next several years.”  Pimco, which oversees $1.36 trillion and is home to the
world’s biggest bond fund, says inflation may slow in 2012,
according to a report by Mihir P. Worah and Nicholas J. Johnson,
portfolio managers for the company.  “Our base case is for inflation to moderate and trend
lower,” according to Pimco, which is based in  Newport Beach ,
 California . Costs in the economy may pick up after a year,
according to Worah and Johnson’s February economic  report  on the
company’s website.  Bill Gross  increased U.S. government and related debt to 38
percent of assets in Pimco’s $250 billion  Total Return Fund (PTTRX)  in
January, from 30 percent in December, according to a report on
the company’s website.  U.S. 10-year yields were little changed today at 1.97
percent as of 6:14 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The record low yield was 1.67 percent set on
Sept. 23.  Missing the Target  Federal Reserve policy makers set a target of 2 percent for
inflation on Jan. 25 and forecast costs in the economy will
probably fall short of the goal this year.  The price gauge that the central bank uses is the personal
consumption expenditures index, which climbed 2.4 percent for
the 12 months ending Dec. 31. The measure increased 1.8 percent
after taking out food and energy costs.  U.S. Treasury securities have handed investors an 11
percent gain in the past year as of yesterday, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes. Investors snapped up
 government securities  as inflation, which erodes a bond’s fixed
payments, held in check.  Thirty-year bonds, which are among the most sensitive to
prices in the economy because of their long maturity, surged 37
percent, the figures show.  Investors seeking protection against higher costs in the
economy in the years ahead sent TIPS to an 18 percent gain,
based on the Bank of America data.  The  MSCI All Country World Index (MXWD)  of stocks handed investors
a 1.8 percent loss in the period after accounting for reinvested
dividends, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story: Wes Goodman in  Singapore 
at   wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Rocky Swift at
   rswift5@bloomberg.net . 