-- Florida Senate Blocks Largest U.S. Private-Prison Plan Dealing Geo Setback
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/florida-senate-defeats-largest-u-s-private-prison-contract-in-21-19-vote.html
Florida ’s Senate blocked a plan to
create the largest private-prison system in the U.S., handing a
setback to a  Geo Group Inc. (GEO)  unit that will instead seek to
expand outside the Sunshine State, according to its president.  “There are still a lot of opportunities,” Jorge Dominicis, president of the  Boca Raton , Florida-based company’s
Geo Care unit, said after the vote yesterday in Tallahassee, the
capital. “There are other states looking at doing similar
things and you’re seeing things happening abroad.”  Dominicis declined to comment on whether Governor  Rick Scott , a Republican, should use executive authority to privatize
the prisons following the vote. Scott skirted the same question,
saying he wanted lawmakers to pass the proposal.  Scott, 59, couldn’t muster enough support in the Senate,
which rejected the measure, 21-19. The plan was projected to
save $16.5 million a year, helping to curb a sixth consecutive
annual deficit. As states  cope  with the aftermath of the longest
recession since the Great Depression, asset sales and shifting
traditional roles to companies has increased.  Since 2005, the number of state prisoners in private jails
nationwide rose 16.7 percent, while the total prison population
climbed 4.1 percent, according to U.S. Justice Department data.  14,500 Inmates  Florida would have moved 14,500 inmates from more than two
dozen prisons and work camps into company-run facilities. The
state, with a total budget of $69.6 billion, spends $268 million
a year to run the lockups with 3,800 workers, according to a
legislative analysis.  Had the proposal passed, it would have been “the largest
single contract procurement in the history of our industry,”
Geo Group Chief Executive Officer George Zoley said on an August
conference call with investors. The company operates in the
U.S.,  Australia ,  South Africa  and the U.K., its website shows.  “This is an opportunity to save money,” Scott said before
the vote. “We know there are a lot of other things we need
money for, whether it’s education for our children, whether
that’s health care, whether it’s other safety nets.”  Geo and Nashville, Tennessee-based  Corrections Corp. of
America , the largest U.S. prison contractor, both expressed
interest in bidding for Florida’s prisoners.  The two companies operate six of the state’s seven
privately run lockups.  Bill Unneeded  Both supporters and opponents said during Senate debate on
the measure that technically, Florida law lets Scott approve
contracts with private-prison operators. No governor has used
that power, however. Republicans hold a 28-12 majority in the
upper chamber.  Senator Mike Fasano, a Republican from New Port Richey who
opposed the plan, said Scott should consider the Senate vote
before attempting to privatize prisons.  “A clear message was sent by 21 of the 40 senators today:
We do not want to privatize public safety,” Fasano said.  Debate in the Senate showed senators divided on whether
companies run prisons more efficiently than the state.  Senator John Thrasher, a former state  Republican Party 
chairman from Jacksonville and a sponsor of the bill, credited
the lobbying of unions including the International Brotherhood
of Teamsters, which represents prison workers, for the defeat.  “Unions have a strong presence and I think that a lot of
members relate to that,” Thrasher said.  Florida, with the third-largest inmate population in the
U.S., has about 11,000 in privately run prisons.  Texas  is the
only state with more in such lockups, at 15,000, according to
state and federal data.  Florida’s total prison population of about 104,300 trails
only  California ’s 165,100 inmates and Texas’s 173,600, according
to Justice Department figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  