-- Florida Measure May Send More Inmates to Private Prisons Than in Any State
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/florida-measure-may-send-more-inmates-to-private-prisons-than-in-any-state.html
Florida , which oversees the third-
largest U.S. prison population, would have more inmates in
private lockups than any other state under a plan that a divided
Senate will consider today.  The bill, which would put up for bids the operation of 27
prisons and work camps, is intended to save $16.5 million a year
by increasing the number of inmates in private prisons to more
than 25,000, about a quarter of those behind bars. Florida
spends $268 million running the facilities, according to a
Senate  analysis .  While the proposal is supported by Governor  Rick Scott ,
whose fellow Republicans control 28 of the chamber’s 40 votes,
its passage is not certain.  “We’re struggling with all sorts of issues,” Senate
Budget Committee Chairman J.D. Alexander, a Republican who
supports the change, told fellow lawmakers yesterday. “Here we
have an opportunity, I think a responsibility, to look very hard
at this issue and see if there is a way we can save money.”  As Florida and 28 other states close shortfalls totaling
$44 billion this year, according to the  Center on Budget and
Policy Priorities , more look to sell assets or outsource
traditional responsibilities. Since 2005, the number of state
prisoners in private lockups has increased 16.7 percent, while
the total prison population increased 4.1 percent in the same
period, according to U.S.  Justice Department  data.  Taking the Lead  Florida’s 104,306 prisoners trail only  California ’s 165,062
and  Texas ’s 173,649, according to the Justice Department.  Texas has about 15,000 prisoners in privately run prisons,
according to the Texas Criminal Justice Department. That’s more
than any other state, according to the U.S. Justice Department.  The Florida proposal would move 14,500 inmates into private
facilities. Boca Raton-based  Geo Group Inc. (GEO) , which already runs
two Florida lockups, has expressed interest.  “This is the largest single contract procurement in the
history of our industry,” Geo Chief Executive Officer George Zoley said, according to a transcript of an Aug. 3 conference
call with investors. “We’ve taken what we believe are important
steps to put our company in a competitive position to pursue
this unprecedented opportunity.”  Nashville, Tennessee-based  Corrections Corp. of America
Inc.  already runs four of Florida’s prisons and its lobbyists
have attended Senate sessions on the bill.  “Should the state expand public-private partnership in
corrections, we would welcome the opportunity to further meet
Florida’s needs,” Steve Owen, a CCA spokesman, said by e-mail.  CCA and Geo are the two largest private-prison contractors
in the U.S.  Protecting Guards  Under the plan, the state would seek bids for a contract as
long as five years to operate and maintain the prison facilities
and require at least a 7 percent savings in the first year.  Opponents, including Republican Senators Mike Fasano and
Jack Latvala, criticized the deal’s size, saying it would
jeopardize jobs for 3,800 prison workers. The state eliminated
the positions of 4,500 public workers in its 2011 budget and
Scott has suggested cutting another 4,500 this year, including
1,700 prison employees.  “The public has more trust in state workers running our
prisons safely then they do the public sector,” Republican
Senator Dennis Jones said. “They haven’t had a raise in six
years and this is one more jab in the eye.”  Out They Go  Scott in August replaced his first prison chief, Edwin
Boss, who opposed the private-prison plan. Senate President Mike Haridopolos, who supports the bill, said he removed Fasano as
chairman of the Budget Subcommittee on Criminal and Civil
Justice Appropriations on Feb. 1 because of Fasano’s opposition
to the deal.  Fasano said the measure favors some private vendors. He and
other opponents pointed to a report from the state Corrections
Department, under Buss, that showed it would cost the state $25
million to pay out vacation, sick leave and other benefits to
3,800 prison workers if they lost their jobs.  Supporters, meanwhile, said the estimated $16.5 million
savings was low. Alexander said the savings might be as much as
$30 million.  “That buys a lot of teachers for the classroom,” said
Senator Don Gaetz.  Scott, who campaigned on cutting $1 billion out of the $2.4
billion Florida Corrections Department budget, summoned
opponents to his office earlier this month in a bid to change
their minds. Two Republican senators, Charlie Dean and Steve Oelrich, both former sheriffs, said they were unpersuaded.  “There’s some things we ought to do and taking custody and
control of the people we imprison is one of them,” Oelrich told
the Tampa Bay Times.  Scott told reporters Jan. 31 he thought private companies
may save the state more than 7 percent.  “People expect us to spend their money well,” Scott said.
“If we do prison privatization, it’s going to save the state
money and we’ll do it the right way.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  