-- For Economy’s Sake, Cut Another Temporary Deal on Taxes: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-02-14T19:12:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/for-economy-s-sake-congress-should-cut-another-temporary-tax-deal-view.html
President  Barack Obama ’s budget
proposal would let the Bush tax cuts for high-income households
expire at the end of this year. Republicans in Congress are
certain to resist.  Meanwhile, the same Republicans agreed Monday to keep a $94
billion payroll tax cut through year-end without paying for it.
But at the same time, they’re holding back on extending
unemployment benefits and a much-needed patch to the Medicare
program unless Democrats find about $55 billion in spending
offsets.  Seems like a mini-rerun of the same, tired debate over
economic stimulus versus deficit reduction, doesn’t it? Don’t be
fooled -- it’s much worse. It is a prelude to a dangerous
standoff that will almost certainly arrive in December and could
make last year’s debt-reduction negotiations seem like, well,
tiddlywinks.  Consider this scenario: All the Bush tax cuts, $4 trillion
worth when spread over 10 years, expire on Dec. 31. The next
day, $1.2 trillion in automatic spending reductions that
Congress and the White House agreed to when they couldn’t cut a
budget deal start to kick in. On top of that, the U.S.
government once again will bump up against its debt ceiling. And
that’s if we’re lucky.  Minuscule Cushion  If you read nothing else in the president’s 2013 budget
documents, turn to page 70 in the Analytical Perspectives. Table
6-2  shows  total debt on Sept. 30, the end of this fiscal year,
will be $16.334 trillion. The statutory limit is $16.394
trillion. That leaves a minuscule $60 billion cushion that may
or may not get the U.S. through the Nov. 6 elections.  In all likelihood, this triple-witching hour will be left
to a lame-duck Congress and possibly an outgoing president.
Either way, continuing uncertainty and, if the brinkmanship goes
too far, a much-too-abrupt fiscal tightening are in the offing.  Our suggestion for preventing this impasse: Democrats
should agree to leave in place all the Bush tax cuts through
2013. In return, Republicans should extend the payroll tax cut,
unemployment benefits and existing Medicare payments to
physicians (which otherwise would be cut 27 percent) through
2012.  That’s far from ideal, but let’s make a sad but necessary
distinction between the correct way to address this problem and
what is feasible in a fractured system of government in a
presidential election year.  The benchmark for sound  tax policy  is not in doubt: The
U.S. needs comprehensive tax reform to simplify the  tax code ,
broaden the tax base and improve fairness. Over the next 10
years, more revenue needs to be raised than today’s code would
provide. A broader tax base can achieve this.  Unfortunately, tax reform isn’t going to happen this side
of the election. Meanwhile, immediate fiscal repairs are
necessary. The economy is showing tentative signs of
improvement, but it is far too soon to start pushing taxes
higher. The labor market is still too weak to bear the brunt of
a fully restored payroll tax. And a recent Congressional Budget
Office  analysis  said the expiration of all the Bush tax cuts
would crush the economy next year, pulling the growth rate back
down to barely 1 percent.  It isn’t good enough to say either the lame-duck Congress
or a new Congress and administration taking office in 2013 would
find a way to avoid fiscal chaos. Uncertainty over this already
is a needless drag on the economy, and it needs to be dispelled.  Something to Gain  Tactically speaking, both sides have something to gain from
the deal we’re suggesting. Here’s the logic from the Republican
side: The party hurt itself by dragging its feet over extending
the payroll tax cut. Republicans are not at their most appealing
when they call for higher taxes on low- and middle-income
households. Also, another extension of all the Bush tax cuts
would be quite a prize. This should be enough, in their
political calculations, to offset a defeat over extended
 unemployment benefits .  More Democrats than Republicans might feel they were the
losers from what we’re suggesting. Many saw the previous
extension of the Bush tax cuts as an embarrassing defeat. The
automatic reversal of those cuts under current law, in their
view, is the best weapon they have in the fight for political
advantage.  We disagree. If Congress failed to extend the Bush tax cuts
through 2013, it is the Democrats who would then have to say,
“We’d rather raise everybody’s taxes than postpone raising
taxes on the rich.” The administration was right to see this as
a losing position a year ago.  What happens next year depends on the outcome of the
election, of course. But if the deal we’re suggesting were done,
the economy would be stronger at the end of 2013 and the threat
(if Democrats are in a position to make it) to let all the Bush
tax cuts expire unless those for the rich were reversed would
look more credible and less self-harming politically.  There’s something for both sides, and for the economy, in
stopping the next tax and debt-ceiling fight before it starts.
As soon as possible -- right now, ideally, but after the
election if we’re being realistic -- Congress should take up the
larger challenge of comprehensive  tax reform .  Read more opinion online from Bloomberg  View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 