-- Ford Says Hybrid System Gains Give Fusion Edge Over Camry
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-02-14T21:06:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/ford-says-hybrid-system-gains-give-fusion-edge-over-toyota-camry.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , the first U.S.-based
carmaker to sell a hybrid, said its pace of technology is
accelerating to allow its new Fusion to top  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s
Camry hybrid when it goes on sale later this year.  Ford patents related to gasoline-electric systems have
risen to 461, from only 30 a decade ago, with more on the way,
Chuck Gray, chief engineer for hybrid and electric powertrains,
said in an interview. Ford last month said the hybrid version of
its revamped Fusion will get 47 miles per gallon in city
driving, 44 mpg highway. The new Camry hybrid that went on sale
last year is rated at 43 mpg city and 39 mpg highway.  “It’s good for the customer, and we like to have this
competition,” Gray said. “Engineers may not be the best
athletes always, but we are very competitive people.”  The rivalry between Ford and Toyota in hybrid sedan fuel-
economy claims began when Dearborn, Michigan-based Ford released
the 2010 Fusion hybrid, edging ahead of Toyota’s first gasoline-
electric Camry. While Toyota remains the biggest seller of
hybrids, led by its Prius models, Ford and other competitors
want a bigger share of the market for advanced technology autos.  By 2020, Ford expects hybrids, plug-in vehicles and models
powered solely by electricity, to account for 10 percent to 25
percent of global sales,  Wes Sherwood , a company spokesman, said
in an e-mailed statement. The 2013 hybrid Fusion will go on sale
in the second half, Ford said.  Toyota has more than 2,000 patents for its hybrids,
including more than 1,000 for the current Prius alone, said Jana Hartline, a company spokeswoman. The Prius hatchback is rated by
the U.S. as getting 51 mpg city and 48 mpg highway, or 50 mpg
combined, the highest such rating for any non-rechargeable auto.  The carmakers last year announced plans to collaborate on a
hybrid system that could be used for heavier models including
pickups and large sport-utility vehicles.  Ford slid 0.5 percent to $12.48 at the close in  New York .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in  Los Angeles  at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  