-- Frieden Says Greece Must Respect Loan Conditions to Be in Euro
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o
-- 2012-02-14T00:44:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/frieden-says-greece-must-respect-loan-conditions-to-be-in-euro.html
Greece  shouldn’t be in the 17-nation
euro region if it doesn’t comply with the conditions attached to
a second bailout package, Luxembourg’s Finance Minister Luc Frieden said.  While Europeans officials’ preferred option is to keep
Greece in the monetary union, Greece holds the key to its euro
membership, Frieden said, speaking at the Atlantic Council in
Washington yesterday. Greece’s implementation of the austerity
measures negotiated with the European Union and the
 International Monetary Fund  will need to be monitored, he said.  “If they don’t do all this, then we must go on with 16
countries,” Frieden said. “If they don’t do this, they exclude
themselves from the euro zone and the impact on the other
countries now would be less important than maybe a year ago.”  Euro-area (EURUSD)  finance chiefs will convene in Brussels on Feb.
15 for their second extraordinary meeting on Greece in a week.
Frustrated after two years of missed budget targets, ministers
declined to ratify the 130 billion-euro ($171 billion) package
in a special session on Feb. 9, demanding that Greek officials
put their verbal commitments into law.  The steps include a 22 percent reduction in the minimum
wage, smaller pensions and immediate job cuts for as many as
15,000 state workers.  Frieden declined to say whether Greece will need more
public money than the 130 billion euros of the package because
Europeans have yet to get all the estimates of how the new Greek
measures and policies will reduce the country’s debt burden.  In Greece’s Hands  “I don’t think the other countries can add much to this,”
he said. “This is in the hands of Greece, knowing that this is
very difficult,” in order to meet previously agreed debt level
targets.  Frieden, who yesterday also met with U.S. Treasury
Department officials, called on the IMF’s largest shareholder to
help strengthen the institution and make it part of a firewall
to quell the European debt crisis.  “I do think what we are seeing in  Europe  is not only a
Europe crisis,” Frieden said.  The European fiscal crisis “is
to some extent the consequence” of the U.S-originated financial
crisis of 2008, he said.  The IMF is seeking to raise its lending capacity by $500
billion. While euro-region nations have already pledged to
contribute 150 billion euros ($197 billion), the U.S. has said
it has no plans to make new bilateral loans and leaders of Group
of 20 nations ended last year at odds over the issue.  Asked whether the U.S should contribute to boost IMF
resources, Frieden said “probably at some point in time.”  “Most important is that the IMF is with the European
institutions in this,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in  Washington  at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Costelloe at 
 kcostelloe@bloomberg.net  