-- Gas Well Inspections to Be Required After Fracking, Salazar Says
-- B y   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-02-14T19:38:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/gas-well-inspections-to-be-required-after-fracking-salazar-says.html
Natural-gas drillers will be
required by U.S. rules to inspect their wells after hydraulic
fracturing on public land to ensure the safety of drinking-water
supplies, Interior Secretary  Ken Salazar  said.  The agency in coming weeks will propose standards under
which companies such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK)  and  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM)  must disclose the chemicals in the mixture injected
underground to free trapped gas, demonstrate the well isn’t
leaking and check the work after fracking, Salazar said today in
a speech to the City Club of  Cleveland .  “To me, those rules are common sense,” Salazar said.
“You have some people say that this will kill the natural gas-
industry -- that’s very far from the truth.”  Republicans in Congress and energy trade groups such as the
 American Petroleum Institute  oppose the agency’s rules, saying
compliance will increase production costs and slow the
development of the resources.  Interior also will require that drilling on federal land
meet guidelines for handling fracking water that returns to the
surface after being injected into the rock to make sure streams
aren’t contaminated. Fracking opponents say the process leads to
tainted water and may cause cancer among people living near the
wells.  In fracking, companies blast shale-rock formations with
water, sand and chemicals under high pressure thousands of feet
underground to break up shale-rock formations and release
trapped gas. The process is used in more than 90 percent of
natural-gas wells drilled on federal land, Salazar said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  