-- Russian Radio Warns of State Crackdown on its Independence
-- B y   S c o t t   R o s e   a n d   S t e p a n   K r a v c h e n k o
-- 2012-02-14T16:37:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/gazprom-media-seeks-board-resignation-at-echo-mosvky-ria-says.html
Ekho Moskvy, a critical Russian
radio station, accused the government of seeking to stifle its
independence after the media’s outlet state-owned controlling
shareholder moved to dissolve its board.  OAO Gazprom Media, a division of  Russia ’s state-run gas
company that controls 66 percent of the station’s voting shares,
wants to replace the board after calling a meeting more than two
months ahead of schedule for March 29, according to a  statement 
published on the Moscow-based radio station’s website today.  The development came a month after Prime Minister  Vladimir Putin , who’s facing a wave of protests in big cities as he seeks
to return to the presidency on March 4 elections, accused the
station of vilifying him “from morning to night.”  The station’s editor-in-chief, Alexei Venediktov, said that
the new board would have the power to remove him. “Now for the
first time since 2001, when we were acquired by Gazprom Media,
we have a situation where it’s technically possible to sack the
editor of  Ekho Moskvy  by order of the government,” he said by
phone today.  Opposition Interviews  The shake-up is related to running Ekho Moskvy’s business
operations and won’t affect its editorial policy, Gazprom Media
spokeswoman Irina Zenkova was cited as saying by Interfax.  Putin, 59, who’s seeking to extend his 12-year-rule, last
month told that the station is “ slinging mud ” at him and
accused it of serving U.S. foreign-policy interests by speaking
favorably of U.S. missile defense plans opposed by Russia. Ekho
Moskvy regularly interviews opposition politicians and others
with limited access to state-run television. Putin established
state control of nationwide television after coming to power in
2000.  “We understand that Gazprom Media wasn’t able to ignore
the criticism by senior Russian officials,” the station said in
the statement. “We assure our listeners that Ekho Moskvy’s
editorial policy was and will continue to be based on Russian
law and in the public interest, as it always has been.”  Billionaire  Mikhail Prokhorov , who is challenging Putin in
the presidential race, said during a meeting with students in
Moscow that he’s arranging a loan to help the station buy out
Gazprom Media’s stake.  Buying Out Gazprom  “I’ve already said that one of my first acts as the
Russian president would be to secure the independence of all
mass media and have the state and state companies exit as
shareholders,” he wrote on his blog.  Venediktov said that while he was grateful for the offer,
Gazprom Media had previously refused offers to buy it out.  In an article Putin wrote last month for the Vedomosti
newspaper, whose publishers include the Financial Times and Wall
Street Journal, the prime minister said state-run companies
should “spin off” media holdings. Gazprom Media also controls
NTV, one of the three main federal television channels, which it
took over a decade ago from businessman Vladimir Gusinsky, who
is now in exile.  Ekho Moskvy, whose daily broadcasts reach 900,000 people
with a potential audience of about 46 million, was one of
several liberal media outlets whose websites were shut down by
hackers during Dec. 4 parliamentary elections, which handed
Putin’s United Russia party a much reduced majority in the State
Duma amid allegations of widespread fraud.  Attempted Coup  The station was founded in 1990 and gained a following
after it stayed on the air during an attempted coup by Communist
hardliners in 1991 against Soviet leader  Mikhail Gorbachev , when
state-controlled airwaves ceased broadcasts. Its journalists
account for 34 percent of voting shares.  Two independent board directors are quitting after Gazprom
Media called a snap election for March, the station said.
Venediktov said he’s also leaving the board. The previous board
had ensured editorial independence by reserving three positions
for journalists, two for independent directors and four for
representatives of Gazprom Media, he said.  Nikolay Senkevich, the chief executive officer of Gazprom
Media, wasn’t available to comment when Bloomberg News called
his Moscow office today. Questions e-mailed to Zenkova weren’t
immediately answered.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net ;
Stepan Kravchenko in Moscow at 
 skravchenko@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  