-- Geithner Says Cutting Spending ‘Too Deeply or Too Soon’ Would Hurt Economy
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R u b i n   a n d   I a n   K a t z
-- 2012-02-14T17:19:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/geithner-says-cutting-spending-too-deeply-or-too-soon-would-hurt-economy.html
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  endorsed the “modest” tax increases proposed by
President  Barack Obama  and opposed by congressional Republicans,
saying they would be preferable to spending cuts.  Reducing the U.S.  budget deficit  over the next decade
without raising taxes would require damaging cuts to  Medicare (USBOMDCR) 
benefits and national security, Geithner said in testimony today
before the Senate Finance Committee. In the budget plan released
yesterday, Obama called for $1.4 trillion in fresh revenue from
Americans at the top of the income scale, including higher  taxes 
on wages and investments and limits on tax breaks for retirement
savings and health insurance.  “We think the economics are quite good, quite sound,”
Geithner said in his testimony.  Geithner said he would prefer to see additional revenue
raised through a comprehensive rewrite of the U.S.  tax code . The
administration hasn’t made such a detailed proposal, and
Geithner said that one won’t be forthcoming. He described that
decision as a realistic nod to House Republicans’ unwillingness
to agree to the same broad framework.  The administration is being “too patient” on taxes, said
Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, who said he wants
the Senate to vote this year on tax increases for top earners.  “Why wait?” he asked. “Why shouldn’t we be debating
these issues now?”  Reductions, Cuts  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican, urged Geithner
to pursue cutting duplicative federal programs and reducing
Medicare fraud instead of tax increases.  “It’s not right to assume that we couldn’t run the federal
government more efficiently and that the only option is to raise
revenue,” he said.  Senator  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat who is chairman of
the panel holding the hearing, backed Obama’s proposal for
permanent extensions of expiring tax cuts. He also called for
overhauling the tax code.  “We must make the tax code fairer and more predictable,”
he said. “We need to simplify it and close loopholes.”  Baucus said the administration’s cuts to rural assistance
programs are “too deep” and could “paralyze our ongoing
economic recovery.”  Tax Increases  The tax proposals in the administration’s budget plan were
immediately rejected by business groups and some congressional
Republicans, who said the ideas were part of Obama’s re-election
strategy and that they had little chance of advancing into law
in 2012.  Senator  Orrin Hatch  of  Utah , the committee’s top
Republican, said the Obama budget would impose “stifling tax
hikes” that would harm the economy.  “This budget is a plan for a permanently larger, European-
style government,” he said. “It does not set our country on a
sustainable fiscal path.”  Later this month, the Obama administration will release
what Geithner called a “framework” for corporate  tax reform .
At one point, Geithner said the plan would be released next
week. He said the plan will be “a little tougher” than the
proposals offered in the House.  Treasury’s tax plan will “eliminate dozens and dozens of
specific corporate tax preferences,” Geithner said. He added
that the plan will call for retaining a few breaks that support
U.S. jobs.  Lower Corporate Rate  Representative  Dave Camp , chairman of the House Ways and
Means Committee, is calling for dropping the corporate  tax rate 
to 25 percent from 35 percent and removing most taxation on
profits that U.S.-based companies earn outside the country.  Geithner said the two plans would share some ideas.  “We’ll be more specific than principles but not as
detailed as legislative language,” he said.  Geithner said he believes that over time the  Congressional
Budget Office ’s estimate of the $25 billion cost of the Troubled
Asset Relief Program, which provided bank bailouts during the
financial crisis, will “prove high.”  “The costs are vastly lower than what people thought,
hundreds and hundreds of billion dollars lower than what people
thought,” Geithner said. “We’ve gotten most of that money back
already and we’re in a very good path to show a very high
return.”  The administration in its budget plan doubled to $61
billion the amount to be raised from a bank tax that
institutions with more than $50 billion in assets would pay for
their role in the financial crisis. The fee also would pay for
the administration’s mortgage refinance plan.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Richard Rubin in Washington at 
 rrubin12@bloomberg.net ;
Ian Katz in Washington at 
 ikatz2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  