-- German Investor Confidence Jumps to 10-Month High as Crisis Eases: Economy
-- B y   J e f f   B l a c k   a n d   K o n s t a n t i n   R i f f l e r
-- 2012-02-14T11:53:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/german-investor-confidence-jumps-to-10-month-high-after-debt-crisis-eases.html
German investor confidence surged to
a 10-month high in February as global growth improved and
 Europe ’s debt crisis showed signs of abating.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, rose to
5.4 from minus 21.6 in January. That’s the highest since April
2011 and the third straight increase. Economists forecast a gain
to minus 11.8, according to the median of 40 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey .  “The outcome is a positive surprise,” said Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at Newedge Group in  London .
“Signs that the euro-area economy is stabilizing, rather than
collapsing as some have feared, and hopes of a resolution of the
debt crisis seem to have supported economic sentiment.”  Borrowing costs for debt-strapped nations such as Italy and
Spain have fallen since the  European Central Bank  injected a
record 489 billion euros ($647 billion) into the banking system
and governments agreed to greater budget discipline in the 17-
member euro area. At the same time, austerity measures across
the region are damping demand for German goods, and  Greece  has
yet to win a second bailout that would stave off a default and
help Europe end the crisis.  ‘Return to Growth’  The euro rose and European stocks climbed, extending the
 Stoxx Europe 600 Index’s  biggest rally in a week.  “With confidence returning, the fundamentally very sound
German economy can return to growth quickly” as long as “the
hope that the euro-zone crisis is kept under control is not
disappointed,”  Christian Schulz , an economist at Berenberg Bank
in London.  Earlier today,  Japan ’s central bank unexpectedly added 10
trillion yen ($128 billion) to an asset-purchase program and
said it will target 1 percent inflation to revive an economy
that shrank an annualized 2.3 percent last quarter.  In the U.K.,  Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King  said
policy makers added another 50 billion pounds ($79 billion) of
stimulus this month because they judged that there was a
“downside” risk of inflation slowing too far beyond the 2
percent goal. U.K. inflation slowed to a 14-month low of 3.6
percent in January.  Credit Ratings  Moody’s Investors Service said yesterday it may strip
 France  and the U.K. of their top Aaa credit grades as it cut the
ratings of six European countries including Italy,  Spain 
and  Portugal , citing Europe’s debt crisis.  The Portuguese economy shrank for a fifth quarter in the
three months through December, a report showed today, as the
government cut spending and raised taxes to narrow its  budget
deficit .  Germany ’s economy, Europe’s largest, probably contracted
mildly in the final quarter of last year, the Federal Statistics
Office said on Jan. 11. It will publish official data for the
quarter at 8 a.m. tomorrow.  “The probability of a technical recession is very low,”
said ZEW economist Marcus Kappler. “Only 20 percent of analysts
saw a recession. The worst-case scenario is sluggish growth. The
German economy is back on track.”  ZEW’s gauge of current conditions climbed to 40.3 from
28.4. Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  has risen more than 14
percent this year.  Global Economy  Hugo Boss AG (BOS3)  reported fourth-quarter operating profit on
Feb. 9 that exceeded analysts’ estimates. The German luxury
clothes maker forecasts revenue of 3 billion euros by 2015 as it
opens more shops and increases sales in Asia and the U.S.  U.S. retail sales probably rose in January by the
most in four months, led by growing demand for autos, economists
said before a report later today. The projected 0.8 percent
increase would follow a 0.1 percent December advance, according
to the median forecast of 82 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
News.  “We are seeing a world economy that’s growing again,
including a more robust U.S.,” said Heinrich Bayer, an
economist at Deutsche Postbank AG in Bonn. “The German economy
is profiting from that.”  The  International Monetary Fund  on Jan. 24 cut its forecast
for German growth this year by one percentage point to 0.3
percent, citing a growing threat of a euro-area recession.  ‘Too Pessimistic’  The Bundesbank, which forecasts 0.6 percent growth for
2012, considers that view “too pessimistic,” and President
Jens Weidmann said the economy should become more robust in the
course of the year.  Carsten Brzeski, senior economist at ING Group in Brussels,
said the ZEW report adds to evidence that the economy “has only
gone through a soft patch at the end of last year” and “is not
nearing the abyss.”  “Of course, despite the recent calm, the sovereign debt
crisis could still easily derail the German economy in 2012,”
he said.  The Greek parliament has passed legislation to enshrine in
law further budget cuts that have been demanded by the European
Union and IMF as a pre-condition for another 130 billion euros
of aid. Euro-area finance ministers will meet in Brussels
tomorrow to discuss disbursement of the funds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net ;
Konstantin Riffler in Frankfurt at 
 kriffler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  