-- German Stocks Fall as U.S. Retail Sales Miss Forecasts; ThyssenKrupp Drops
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-02-14T17:01:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/german-stocks-drop-as-moody-s-downgrades-italy-spain-portugal.html
German (SXXP)  stocks declined, erasing
earlier gains, as U.S. retail sales rose less than forecast,
offsetting an increase in investor confidence in  Europe ’s
largest economy, which rose to a 10-month high.  ThyssenKrupp (TKA) , Germany’s largest steelmaker, dropped 3.8
percent after reporting a first-quarter loss as project delays
and cost overruns in  Brazil  and the U.S. dented earnings.
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  climbed 2.4 percent as it pledged to return
capital to shareholders after posting a fourth-quarter profit.  The  DAX Index (DAX)  fell 10.28, or 0.2 percent, to 6,728.19 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in Frankfurt, reversing earlier gains of as
much as 0.7 percent. The gauge has jumped 14 percent this year
amid speculation the global economy will withstand the impact of
the euro area’s debt crisis and as central banks acted to fuel
growth. The broader HDAX Index retreated 0.3 percent today.  “Markets have stayed lower today as Moody’s latest
announcement, putting the U.K., France and Austria on negative
outlook, along with worse-than-expected retail sales in the U.S.
has shoved any rally off the table for today,” said Simon Furlong, a trader at SpreadEx Ltd. in  St. Albans , England.  In the U.S., retail sales rose in January by 0.4 percent as
Americans took advantage of post-holiday discounts, showing
households are being frugal in their spending, Commerce
Department figures showed today. Last month’s advance was half
the 0.8 percent median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, reflecting an unexpected drop at auto dealers.
Excluding cars, demand climbed 0.7 percent, more than projected.  German Confidence  Germany ’s ZEW Center for European Economic Research in
Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst expectations,
which aims to predict economic developments six months in
advance, rose to 5.4 in February from minus 21.6 in January.
That’s the highest since April 2011. Economists forecast a gain
to minus 11.8, according to the median of 40 estimates in a
Bloomberg News survey.  ThyssenKrupp dropped 3.8 percent to 21.07 euros after
reporting a loss before interest and taxes of 33 million euros,
compared with a profit of 261 million euros a year earlier.  Deutsche Boerse  jumped 2.4 percent to 49.94 euros after the
 German (SXXP)  bourse operator posted a fourth-quarter profit amid lower
costs and higher sales while announcing a stock buyback and
dividend.  MAN SE (MAN)  gained 0.7 percent to 82.92 euros. The outlook for
2012 is “strong,” even as the German truckmaker controlled by
Volkswagen AG said sales and operating profit will decline this
year, according to analysts at WestLB.  Carl Zeiss Meditec AG (AFX)  surged 7.3 percent to 17.59 euros,
the highest price since May 2007, as the maker of medical lasers
and surgery products reported first-quarter earnings that beat
analysts’ expectations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  