-- Glaxo Uses Mediation to Settle Almost 25,000 Avandia Diabetes-Drug Claims
-- B y   S o p h i a   P e a r s o n
-- 2012-02-14T18:05:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/glaxo-uses-mediation-to-settle-almost-25-000-cases-on-avandia-drug-claims.html
GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  settled almost
25,000 cases over its Avandia diabetes drug in mediation as
multidistrict litigation begins to wind down, lawyers told a
judge today in Philadelphia.  In November, U.S. District Judge Cynthia Rufe appointed a
mediator to preside over settlement negotiations. She also set a
75-day deadline to resolve 85 percent of the remaining cases. It
was unclear in a court hearing today whether lawyers had met the
threshold as Rufe applauded the effort as “a major success.”  “Mediation will no longer be the focus of this court’s
effort,” Rufe said. “We will resolve the remaining cases
through litigation.”  The settlements are part of London-based Glaxo’s efforts to
resolve legal issues stretching back more than a decade. The
drugmaker announced in November that it will pay $3 billion to
settle U.S. criminal and civil probes into whether Glaxo
illegally marketed Avandia and other medications.  More than 2,500 Avandia cases are consolidated before Rufe
in Philadelphia. Other cases are pending in state courts around
the U.S. So far, as many as 50,000 cases have been resolved,
including claims filed in both state and federal court, Diane Nast, a plaintiffs’ attorney who serves on a group helping to
oversee cases, told Rufe today.  “From what I’m hearing today, there aren’t a lot of cases
left to be tried, and not all those cases will make it to
trial,” Rufe said.  Glaxo said in 2010 that it would stop promoting Avandia
worldwide after studies linked the drug to increased risks of
heart attacks. The company already agreed to pay at least $700
million to settle more than 15,000 patients’ claims that the
drug caused heart attacks and strokes, people familiar with the
accords said last year.  The consolidated case is In re Avandia Marketing, Sales
Practices and Products Liability Litigation, 07-01871, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Pennsylvania  (Philadelphia).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sophia Pearson in Philadelphia at 
 spearson3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  