-- Golar LNG to Buy Two New Vessels From Hyundai Samho Heavy
-- B y   I s a a c   A r n s d o r f
-- 2012-02-14T17:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/golar-lng-to-buy-two-new-vessels-from-hyundai-samho-heavy-1-.html
Golar LNG Ltd. (GOL) , the owner of
liquefied natural gas carriers led by Norway-born billionaire
 John Fredriksen , will buy at least two more of the ships as
demand for the fuel rises as much as 10 percent a year.  Golar said today it ordered two LNG tankers from  Hyundai
Samho Heavy Industries Co. (SAHZ)  for more than $400 million for
delivery in 2014’s third and fourth quarters. More purchases of
new ships and infrastructure will be announced “in the coming
weeks,” Hamilton, Bermuda-based Golar said.  “The large global spreads in gas prices, the high growth
in trade and the tight availability of shipping give this
investment a solid foundation,” Fredriksen, Golar’s chairman,
said in a statement. Global LNG trade will rise 8 percent to 10
percent annually over the next few years, it showed.  Demand for LNG carriers will expand 12 percent this year,
more than the fleet’s growth of 2.5 percent, RS Platou Markets
AS said in a report Feb. 7. Rates will rise to $140,000 a day,
the Oslo-based investment bank estimates.  Golar climbed 6 percent to 265 kroner by the 5:30 p.m.
close in Oslo trading today, leaving the stock little changed
this year and raising the company’s market value to 21.2 billion
kroner ($3.7 billion).  Net income  will more than triple to 205.5
million kroner this year, according to the average of 12 analyst
estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  Two of Golar’s ships whose charters are expiring this year
will fetch new multiyear contracts with daily rents above
$150,000, estimates Erik Nikolai Stavseth, an analyst at Arctic
Securities ASA in Oslo. The company has 13 of the carriers,
according to its website.  “Golar’s announcement of additional newbuilding orders
underscores its favorable positioning in the LNG shipping
market, which we expect will remain tight and offer the company
strong returns on its growing fleet,”  Omar Nokta , a New York-
based analyst at investment bank Dahlman Rose & Co., said in an
e-mailed report today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Isaac Arnsdorf in London at 
 iarnsdorf@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  