-- Gold Has Longest Slump This Year
-- B y   D e b a r a t i   R o y   a n d   N i c h o l a s   L a r k i n
-- 2012-02-14T19:44:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/gold-declines-after-moody-s-cuts-lift-dollar-touradji-sells.html
Gold futures fell, capping the
longest slump this year, as the dollar’s rally eroded demand for
the precious metal as an alternative investment.  The greenback rose to the highest in almost two weeks
against a basket of major currencies, partly on demand for a
haven. Moody’s Investors Service cut the debt ratings of six
European nations and said it may strip the U.K. and  France  of
their Aaa ratings. Gold dropped for the third straight session,
the longest slide since late December.  “The dollar’s strength is acting against gold,” Lance Roberts, the chief executive officer at Streettalk Advisors LLC
in Houston, said in a telephone interview. “The weekly sell
signal remains.”  Gold futures for April delivery fell 0.4 percent to settle
at $1,717.70 an ounce at 1:40 p.m. on the Comex in  New York . The
metal has gained 9.6 percent this year.  “We’ve had a decent run, and we may well see some softness
as that rally consolidates,”  Dan Smith , an analyst at Standard
Chartered Plc in London, said in a telephone interview.
“There’s a bit of  risk aversion , and that’s weighing on gold.”  Silver futures for March delivery fell 1.1 percent to
$33.348 an ounce on the Comex. The price has climbed 19 percent
this year.  On the  New York Mercantile Exchange , palladium futures for
March delivery fell 1.6 percent to $687.25 an ounce, the biggest
drop since Jan. 6. The metal dropped for the fourth straight
session, the longest slump since early October.  Platinum futures for April delivery declined 1.3 percent to
$1,628 an ounce on the Nymex. The metal slid for the fourth
straight session, the longest slump since early December.  This year, platinum has climbed 16 percent, and palladium
is up 4.7 percent.  To contact the reporters for this story:
Nicholas Larkin in  London  at 
 nlarkin1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the reporters for this story:
Debarati Roy in New York at 
 droy5@bloomberg.net  