-- Goldman Pursues Volcker Rule Exemption for Bank Stakes in ‘Credit Funds’
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-02-14T00:12:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/goldman-sachs-seeks-exemption-for-bank-stakes-in-credit-funds-.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , which says
it owns the world’s largest family of so-called mezzanine loan
funds, is asking regulators to loosen proposed limits on bank
investments in such pools.  Four Goldman Sachs employees and three lawyers from
 Sullivan & Cromwell LLP  met on Feb. 2 with Federal Reserve Board
staff to discuss Volcker rule limits on banks’ fund investments,
according to a summary published yesterday by the central bank.
The Volcker rule limits depository institutions from supplying
more than 3 percent of the capital in a hedge fund, private-
equity fund or other “covered fund.”  Goldman Sachs “expressed their view that the proposed rule
does not permit a banking entity to acquire over 3 percent of
the ownership interests in a ‘credit fund’ that is principally
engaged in making or acquiring extensions of credit,” according
to the Fed summary. “GS explained that investors in credit
funds require at least 5 percent ‘skin in the game’ from
sponsors.”  Goldman Sachs, which was the most profitable securities
firm in Wall Street history before converting to a bank in 2008,
typically has supplied about 30 percent of the money to the
hedge funds, private-equity funds and credit funds the firm
manages for clients. Andrea Raphael, a spokeswoman for  New York- 
based Goldman Sachs, declined to comment.  GS Mezzanine Partners, which raised $13 billion for its
fifth fund in 2007, has been extending mezzanine credit to
buyout firms and corporations since 1996, according to Goldman
Sachs’s website. Mezzanine debt, often used in leveraged
buyouts, typically is repaid after bank loans in a bankruptcy
and has higher yields than broadly marketed public bonds.  ‘Leveraged Capital’  “This is the largest mezzanine fund family in the world,
with more than $28 billion of leveraged capital raised since
1996,” the company  says  on the website.  In 2008, Goldman Sachs said it raised $10.5 billion in
equity and leverage commitments for its first GS Loan Partners
fund, including more than $1 billion from the firm and Goldman
Sachs employees. The company also makes and buys loans through
Goldman Sachs Credit Partners LP.  The line between hedge funds and credit funds isn’t always
clear as some hedge funds make and buy loans as part of a credit
strategy. Lloyd C. Blankfein, 57, Goldman Sachs’s chairman and
chief executive officer, told investors at a November 2007
conference that the firm recently had raised “Liberty Harbor, a
$2.7 billion credit hedge fund, and GS Liquidity Partners, a
$1.8 billion fund raised to take advantage of distress
opportunities in the credit markets.”  Extending Credit  Ben Adler, Eric Edwards, Michael Koester and  David Thomas  -
- Goldman Sachs representatives at the meeting with Fed staff --
recommended that the Volcker rule should allow banks to own more
than 3 percent of a credit fund as long as the fund is
“predominantly engaged” in extending credit, originating or
acquiring loans and doesn’t employ “excess” leverage,
according to the meeting summary.  The exception also should require that the funds’ strategy
is to hold loans for at least three years, that they only use
derivatives to hedge  interest rate  and  currency risk , and that
the funds’ obligations aren’t guaranteed or supported by the
sponsoring banking entity, according to the summary.  Whitney Chaterjee, Rodgin Cohen and Michael Wiseman
attended the Feb. 2 meeting from Sullivan & Cromwell, according
to the Fed summary. The central bank representatives at the
meeting were Sean Campbell, Anna Harrington and Christopher
Paridon, according to the summary.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in New York at 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 