-- Goldman’s Rogers Says Volcker Rule Could Increase Risk
-- B y   S i l l a   B r u s h ,   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y   a n d   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s
-- 2012-02-14T23:22:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/goldman-s-rogers-says-volcker-rule-could-increase-financial-risk.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  said a
proposed U.S. ban on banks’ proprietary trading and limits on
their investments in private equity and hedge funds may boost
financial-system risks the measure was designed to curtail.  “Without substantial revisions, the proposed rule will
define permitted market making-related, underwriting and hedging
activities so narrowly that it will significantly limit our
ability to help our clients,” John F.W. Rogers, the firm’s
chief of staff, said in one of two  comment letters  on proposed
Volcker rule  restrictions . The rule would stifle Goldman’s
ability to help clients “raise capital, manage their risks,
invest their wealth and generate liquidity,” he wrote.  Goldman Sachs joined its banking rivals, including  JPMorgan
Chase & Co. (JPM) ,  Bank of America Corp. (BAC)  and  Morgan Stanley (MS) , in
registering complaints about the 298-page proposal released for
comment by U.S. regulators including the  Federal Reserve  and the
Securities and Exchange Commission ahead of yesterday’s public
comment deadline. Regulators, who sought input on more than
1,300 questions in their October proposal, now have until July
21 to complete and implement the rule.  Lawmakers included the rule, named for former Fed Chairman
 Paul Volcker , in the Dodd-Frank Act to restrict risky trading by
banks that operate with federal guarantees. The Fed, SEC,
Federal Deposit Insurance Corp. and Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency invited comment on how the measure would affect
market-making, liquidity, foreign institutions, and private
equity and hedge fund investments.  ‘Key Aims’  “Although one of the key aims of Dodd-Frank was to promote
greater stability in financial markets, we are concerned that
the proposed rule could inadvertently increase systemic risk,”
Rogers wrote.  If the rule makes hedging more expensive, “banking
entities’ clients and customers will be forced to hold more risk
on their own books,” he said. “This will increase the
volatility of their earnings and hurt their share prices, which
in turn will raise their cost of capital, reduce their capacity
to invest, lower their returns to shareholders and diminish
their appeal as strategic partners.”  Negative consequences “could be far-ranging,” with the
Volcker Rule putting U.S. firms at a competitive disadvantage to
their non-U.S. counterparts and imposing costs “which do not
appear to have been sufficiently analyzed,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net ;
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  