-- Goldman Sachs Says Banking Partner Jeffrey Moslow to Retire
-- B y   Z a c h a r y   R .   M i d e r   a n d   C r i s t i n a   A l e s c i
-- 2012-02-14T17:14:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/goldman-sachs-says-banking-partner-jeffrey-moslow-to-retire.html
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Jeffrey Moslow, an investment banker to companies such as Tyco
International Ltd., plans to leave the firm.  Moslow, 47, a partner based in New York, is a former head
of the  investment-banking  services group and joined the firm in
1994, Goldman Sachs said today in an internal memorandum
disclosing the move. The memo was obtained by Bloomberg News and
confirmed by the company.  Moslow’s departure is the second by a partner in the
investment bank to be announced this week. Goldman Sachs, the
fifth-biggest U.S. bank by assets, said yesterday that George
Mattson, head of the industrials investment-banking group, plans
to leave. In the last year, Goldman Sachs has lost about 50
partners, the highest rank of employees who share in a special
compensation pool and are elected every two years.  “Over the course of his career, Jeff played a significant
role in the development of our IBS strategy and has also helped
to recruit, mentor and develop many of our next generation of
coverage bankers,” Richard Gnodde,  David Solomon , and John S. Weinber, the co-heads of investment banking, said in the memo.  The investment banking services group, which Moslow ran or
co-ran from 2002 to 2008, was founded by former Goldman Sachs
Co-Chairman John Whitehead and consists of bankers focused on
“covering” specific clients rather than specializing in a
product such as stock underwriting or merger advice.  Moslow has been advising Nstar, the Boston-based utility,
on a planned sale to Northeast Utilities, and counseled defense
contractor Dyncorp International Inc. in its 2010 sale to
Cerberus Capital Management LP.  He is a graduate of  Tufts University  and Harvard Law
School, according to a  profile  on the Tufts website.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zachary R. Mider in  New York  at 
 zmider1@bloomberg.net ;
Cristina Alesci in New York at 
 calesci2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Jennifer Sondag  at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net . 