-- Google, Bard, PepsiCo, Time Warner: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-02-14T12:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/google-bard-pepsico-time-warner-intellectual-property.html
Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s $12.5 billion purchase
of  Motorola Mobility Holdings Inc (MMI) . was approved by U.S.
antitrust regulators, expanding the company’s mobile-phone
patents and increasing competition with Apple Inc.  The acquisition of Libertyville, Illinois-based Motorola
Mobility gives Google, the biggest maker of smartphone software,
more than 17,000 additional patents in the largest wireless-
equipment deal in at least a decade, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  The U.S.  Justice Department  said yesterday the patent
purchases wouldn’t hurt competition in the mobile-phone
industry.  Google, based in  Mountain View ,  California , cited
reinforcing its defenses in patent litigation as the prime
motive for its agreement to buy Motorola Mobility and its
patents.  Apple, maker of the iPhone, and Microsoft Corp., developer
of Windows Phone software, have sued around the world over
phones that run on Google’s Android system, including handsets
built by Motorola Mobility, Samsung Electronics Co. and  HTC
Corp. (2498)   The patents include technology essential to the mobile-
device industry, including location services, antenna designs
and touch-screen motions.  A plan by a group led by Microsoft and Apple to buy Nortel
Network Corp. patents also received antitrust approval
yesterday, according to the department. The $4.5 billion
acquisition will give the group, which includes  Research in
Motion Ltd ., Sony Corp., Ericsson AB and  EMC Corp (EMC) ., control of
more than 6,000 patents and applications that cover wireless
technologies.  Earlier yesterday, Google won European Union approval for
the Motorola Mobility deal.  While the European Commission said Google’s planned
purchase of Motorola Mobility didn’t raise competition concerns,
the EU’s antitrust chief  Joaquin Almunia  said he’s “concerned”
by phone makers using patent litigation to block rivals.  “We are aware of the increasingly strategic use of patents
in the sector and are vigilant,” Almunia said in an e-mailed
statement.  The commission said its probe showed that Google was
unlikely to block rivals’ access to Android software or to use
Motorola Mobility’s standard-essential patents to give an unfair
boost to its search and advertising services.  Almunia said he didn’t rule out future antitrust probes
into companies using lawsuits to block rivals.  EU antitrust regulators are separately investigating Google
over claims it discriminated against other services in its
search results and stopped some websites from accepting rival
ads.  Microsoft (MSFT)  and shopping-comparison site Foundem are among
companies that asked the agency to examine the Mountain View,
California-based search engine.  Bard Unit Sues Hologic Over Breast Cancer Treatment Patents  C.R. Bard Inc. (BCR) ’s SenoRx Inc. unit sued  Hologic (HOLX)  Inc.,
claiming the company is infringing two patents for medical
devices and a method for treating breast cancer.  SenoRx says Hologic’s MammoSite Multi-Lumen device is
misappropriating technology used in SenoRx’s Contura Multi-Lumen
Balloon, which delivers radiation to tissue where cancer may
recur after the removal of a tumor.  “SenoRx has suffered, and continues to suffer, economic
harm as a result of Hologic’s infringing activities,” lawyers
for SenoRx wrote in court papers filed Feb. 10 in federal court
in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Deborah Gordon, a spokeswoman for Hologic, didn’t
immediately return a phone call seeking comment on the lawsuit.  SenoRx wants a ruling that Hologic’s alleged infringement
was intentional, which could triple the damages that SenoRx may
recover. The complaint doesn’t say how much SenoRx is seeking.  Separately, Bedford, Massachusetts-based Hologic sued
SenoRx in 2008 claiming the Contura system infringed its
MammoSite device. In 2009 a jury found that SenoRx didn’t
infringe patents related to balloon brachytherapy, in which a
balloon is inserted to irradiate remaining cancerous tissue in
the area where a tumor has been removed.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit in
 Washington  overruled the verdict last year and sent the case
back to the lower court.  Murray Hill, New Jersey-based C.R. Bard acquired SenoRx in
2010 for about $213 million, according to a statement and data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The case is SenoRx Inc. v. Hologic Inc., 12-cv-173, U.S.
District Court, Delaware (Wilmington). The appeals case is
Hologic Inc. v. SenoRx Inc., 2010-1235, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the Federal Circuit (Washington). The lower court case is
Hologic Inc. v.  SenoRx, 08-cv-133, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California ( San Jose ).  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  PepsiCo’s Frito-Lay Sues Ralcorp Unit, Claims Scoops Infringed  PepsiCo Inc. (PEP) ’s Frito-Lay unit, the maker of Cheetos and
Ruffles potato chips, sued  Ralcorp Holdings Inc. (RAH)  and its
Medallion Foods unit for trademark and patent infringement.  The suit, filed Feb. 10 in federal court in Sherman,  Texas ,
is related to Frito-Lay’s Tostitos Scoops! product. This is a
small bowl-shaped corn chip that can be used to scoop up salsa,
guacamole or other dips.  According to court papers, Frito-Lay has been making
Scoops! since 2001. The company registered the shape of the
product as a trademark and says the product is covered by four
U.S. patents, one of which covers the design.  Frito-Lay objects to Medallion’s Bowlz corn chips. The
complaint features a color photo of the two products laid out
side by side on a plain background. It also contains color
photos of the packaging for each product.  The Bowlz product is intended to trade off the goodwill of
Frito-Lay’s Scoops! through its similar shape and packaging,
Plano, Texas-based Frito-Lay said in its pleadings. The two
products are sold on the same shelves in the same retail
outlets, and consumers are likely to be confused by the apparent
similarity, the company claims.  Medallion, based in Newport, Arkansas, is accused of
causing financial and reputation damage to Frito-Lay. The
company didn’t respond immediately to an e-mailed request for
comment.  Frito-Lay asked the court to issue an order barring
Medallion from registering any mark confusingly similar to the
“Tostitos Scoops!” mark, and for award of money damages,
litigation costs and attorney fees. Additionally, Frito-Lay
requested it be awarded Medallion’s profits attributable to the
alleged infringement and that the damages be increased to punish
the company for its actions.  The Texas company is represented by  Timothy S. Durst ,  Susan
Cannon Kennedy  and  Jonathan R. Mureen  of Houston-based  Baker
Botts LLP (1143L) .  The case is Frito-Lay North America Inc. v. Medallion Foods
Inc., 4:12-cv-00074, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of
Texas (Sherman).  Time Warner, Disney in a Race With Competing ‘Oz’ Applications  Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s Turner Entertainment unit filed a clutch
of applications Oct. 28 to register “The Great and Powerful
Oz” with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office in October.  The company’s applications have been suspended, according
to the patent office database, because the  Walt Disney Co. (DIS)  has
prior pending applications to register “Oz the Great and
Powerful.” The suspension letter was sent Feb. 8.  The original “Wizard of Oz” film was made by Metro-
Goldwin-Mayer in 1939, based on “The Wonderful Wizard of Oz,”
a children’s book published in 1900 by Frank L. Baum. Turner
acquired the firm in the 1980s as part of the company’s purchase
of much of MGM’s library.  Disney is coming out with “Oz: The Great and Powerful” in
March 2013. It’s a prequel to the story, told from the point of
view of the Wizard himself.  On Oct. 21, Disney filed eight applications to register
“Oz The Great and Powerful” for a variety of uses, including
toys, cosmetics, bags and backpacks, toothpaste, and educational
services. These predate the Turner applications by one week.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  ‘Crowd-Sourced’ Yogurt Ad Nets Danone Infringement Allegations  Danone SA (BN) ’s Dannon unit’s Super Bowl ad for its new Oikos
Greek-style yogurt is winning it allegations of copyright
infringement from fans of the John Butler Trio, the Australian
newspaper  reported .  The ad allegedly contains the first few notes of the band’s
song “ Zebra ,” according to postings on the yogurt company’s
social-media pages, the Australian reported.  A Dannon spokesman told the Australian that the company
couldn’t determine whether the ad’s music is based on the band’s
because the ad was created by the crowd-sourcing process, with
numerous ideas submitted by professionals in the advertising
industry.  The band says permission was never sought to use its music
in the ad, according to the Australian.  Apple Adds Patent-Infringement Claims Against Samsung With Suit  Apple Inc. (AAPL) ’s newest lawsuit against  Samsung Electronics
Co. (005930) , set for a hearing May 2, increases the number of Samsung
devices that Apple argues infringe its products.  Apple seeks a court order blocking the alleged infringement
in smartphones such as Samsung’s Galaxy S II Skyrocket and
Galaxy S II Epic 4G Touch, which use Google Inc.’s Android
operating system, and Samsung’s Galaxy 4.0 and 5.0 media
players.  In December, Apple lost a similar request for a court order
blocking sales of Samsung’s 4G smartphone and Galaxy Tab 10.1
tablet computer. Trial for that case is set for July 30.  “Despite that lawsuit, Samsung has continued to flood the
market with copycat products, including at least 18 new
infringing products released over the last eight months,”
according to the complaint filed Feb. 8 in federal court in San
Jose, California.  Samsung’s newer products infringe patents at issue on the
previous case as well as additional patents Apple issued since
the earlier case was filed, Apple said. “Apple is filing this
suit to put an end to Samsung’s continued infringement,”
according to the complaint.  Samsung continues to “assert our  intellectual property 
rights and defend against Apple’s claims,” its Seoul-based
spokesman Nam Ki Yung said yesterday.  The two companies have filed at least 30 lawsuits against
each other, according to Samsung. The conflict began in April,
when Apple filed the first San Jose lawsuit claiming the Suwon,
South Korean company’s Galaxy devices copied the iPhone and
iPad.  The case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung Electronics Co. Ltd.,12-
cv-00630, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California
(San Jose). The previous case is Apple Inc. v. Samsung
Electronics Co., 11-01846, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of California (San Jose).  For copyright news, click here.  IP Moves  Sills Cummis & Gross Hires IP Litigator From Dickstein Shapiro  Sills Cummis & Gross PC  hired John T. Gallagher for its IP
practice group, the Newark, New Jersey-based firm said in a
statement.  Gallagher , a litigator, joins from Washington’s  Dickstein
Shapiro LLP (1270L) . Before he was a lawyer, he worked as a chemical
engineer.  He’s represented clients in federal trial and appellate
courts in disputes involving patents, trade secrets and unfair
competition. His clients’ technologies have included medical
devices, consumer products, prescription and over-the-counter
drugs, antibiotics, vaccines, fuel cells, polymer processing,
catalysts, fungicides, flexographic printing products,
semiconductors and software systems.  He has an undergraduate degree in chemical engineering from
 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (80079MF)  and a law degree from St.
John’s University.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in Oakland, California, at   vslindflor@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 