-- Government Bonds Advance as Inflation Slows More Than Economists Estimated
-- B y   J e a n e t t e   R o d r i g u e s
-- 2012-02-14T11:44:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/government-bonds-advance-as-inflation-slows-more-than-economists-estimated.html
India ’s bonds gained as a government
report showed inflation slowed more than economists estimated,
increasing room for the central bank to cut borrowing costs.  Yields on 10-year notes dropped to the lowest level in more
than a week as data showed the pace of  wholesale-price  increases
cooled to 6.55 percent in January, the least since November 2009
and slower than the 6.7 percent median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. Bonds also advanced on speculation the  Reserve Bank 
of India will buy debt in open-market auctions and lower  reserve
requirements  for banks a second time this year to ease a cash
shortage.  “Tight banking-system liquidity will likely increase
market expectations of both open-market purchases in the near
term and a reserve-ratio cut,” analysts at  Barclays Capital 
including Singapore-based Kumar Rachapudi wrote in a note to
clients published today. Slower-than-expected inflation will
“increase the chances of a repo rate cut in March,” the
analysts wrote.  The yield on the 8.79 percent note due November 2021 fell
three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to 8.18 percent in
Mumbai, according to the central bank’s trading system. That is
the lowest level since Feb. 3.  The Reserve Bank cut the reserve ratio for banks last month
for the first time since 2009 to free up 320 billion rupees
($6.5 billion) in the banking system, and said that the bias of
future rate decisions “will be toward lowering them.” Governor
 Duvvuri Subbarao  boosted the benchmark  repurchase rate  13 times
in the past two years to cool inflation.  Indian banks  borrowed  an average 1.33 trillion rupees a day
from the central bank to meet shortages in the past month,
according to data from the central bank.  The cost of one-year interest-rate swaps, or derivative
contracts used to guard against fluctuations in funding costs,
decreased seven basis points to 8.05 percent, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeanette Rodrigues in Mumbai at 
 jrodrigues26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  