-- Greater Nile Says Reported South Sudanese Oil Production Wells Accurately
-- B y   S a l m a   E l   W a r d a n y   a n d   J a r e d   F e r r i e
-- 2012-02-14T16:09:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/greater-nile-says-reported-south-sudanese-oil-production-wells-accurately.html
Greater Nile Petroleum Operating
Co., which produces crude in  Sudan  and  South Sudan , said it
accurately provided data on the number of  oil wells  to South
Sudan amid reports of under counting as the fields were closed.  GNPOC, as the company is known, has made regular reports
about its oil wells to South Sudanese authorities since a
dispute over borders and fees began, it said today in an e-
mailed statement from Sudan’s capital Khartoum.  Refering to the under reporting of oil wells, Elizabeth
Bol, deputy oil minister of South Sudan, said “technical staff
found this when they were shutting down oil production.”  “We can’t say if it is true or not true. It is better for
us to conduct an investigating committee and then we can see,”
she said by phone from Juba.  The company’s crude production dropped to 60,000 barrels a
day from 120,000 barrels a day after South Sudan completely
halted all oil production on Jan. 28 in a dispute with its
northern neighbor, a GNPOC official said, declining to be
identified citing company policy.  Among the fields GNPOC operates are eight deposits in the
Western Upper Nile area and its pipeline links oil from South
Sudan with refineries at Khartoum and El Obeid, according to the
company website. GNPOC is owned by China National Petroleum
Corp., or CNPC,  Malaysia ’s Petroliam Nasional Bhd., ONGC Videsh
Ltd. of India and Sudapet, Sudan’s state oil company.  The company has about 320 wells in South Sudan, of which
145 are oil related, 50 are water injections and about 125 are
abandoned, it said in the statement.  South Sudan took control of about three-quarters of Sudan’s
oil production of 490,000 barrel a day when it declared
independence on July 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Salma El Wardany in Khartoum at 
 selwardany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net  