-- Greek Economy Shrank Greater-Than-Forecast 6.8% Last Year on Spending Cuts
-- B y   M a r c u s   B e n s a s s o n
-- 2012-02-14T12:56:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/greek-economy-shrank-greater-than-forecast-6-8-last-year-on-spending-cuts.html
Greece ’s economy, reeling from
austerity measures demanded by creditors in exchange for rescue
funds, contracted almost a percentage point more last year than
the government forecast, according to Bloomberg calculations.  Gross domestic product fell 7 percent from a year earlier
in the fourth quarter after contracting a revised 5 percent on
an annual basis in the previous three months, the Athens-based
Hellenic Statistical Authority said in an e-mailed statement
today. GDP declined 6.8 percent in 2011, according to Bloomberg
calculations, compared with a 6 percent contraction estimated in
the government’s 2012 budget.  “Recessionary pressures have intensified as the impact
from additional austerity measures have been amplified by high
uncertainty about the prospects of the country,” said  Nicholas
Magginas , an economist at  National Bank of Greece SA  in Athens.  Greece is now in its fifth year of a recession. Prime
Minister Lucas Papademos’s government on Feb. 13 passed through
Parliament a new package of austerity measures demanded by the
so-called troika of the European Commission,  International
Monetary Fund  and  European Central Bank  in exchange for a 130
billion-euro ($172 billion) rescue. It got its first financial
lifeline in May 2010.  The troika demanded deeper spending cuts from Greece when
drafting the conditions for its new rescue package to take into
account that GDP would contract more than previous forecasts.  Slump Deepening  Critics say the measures will deepen the recession. The EU
and IMF’s latest draft report on Greece indicates that the
economy will contract more in 2012 than the 3 percent the IMF
forecast in a December report. The  unemployment rate  in November
rose to 20.9 percent, a record high.  “The situation in the  Greek economy  has deteriorated,”
said Christos Staikouras, a spokesman on economic issues for  New
Democracy , the second-biggest parliamentary party. “Each
official announcement confirms that the intensity and scope of
the recession is unprecedented.”  The fourth-quarter preliminary figure is based on available
non-seasonally adjusted data, the statistics authority said. GDP
declined a revised 8 percent in the three months through March
and 7.3 percent in the second quarter, the agency said. It
didn’t provide seasonally adjusted figures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Marcus Bensasson in Athens at 
 mbensasson@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  