-- Greece May Cut $1.3 Billion in Drug Spending This Year
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e
-- 2012-02-14T16:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/greece-may-cut-1-3-billion-in-pharmaceutical-spending-in-2012-under-pact.html
Greece  must chop spending on
outpatient drugs by 1 billion euros ($1.3 billion) this year as
a condition of the austerity pact lawmakers passed to win a
second bailout.  Patients will make bigger co-payments for medicines,
wholesalers and pharmacies will have lower margins, and doctors
will be made to prescribe more generic products, according to a
draft document of a plan for cuts through 2014, approved by
Greek lawmakers this week. The accord between the government and
the troika of the European Commission, the  International
Monetary Fund  and the  European Central Bank  also includes a
quarterly “clawback” rebate on drugmakers’ sales in Greece.  Health care is central to budget cuts that Greece’s
international creditors are demanding as they reach the final
stages of negotiations for a second, 130 billion-euro financing
package. Greek pharmacists say belt-tightening so far has
contributed to a shortage of almost half the country’s 500 most-
used medicines.  “It will be very difficult to see how this can be
implemented by the end of 2014,” Martin Koehring, a London-
based analyst for the Economist Intelligence Unit, said in a
telephone interview today. “This reform is necessary, but the
time frame will be difficult.”  Fraudulent Billing  The reform is designed to bring Greek public spending on
outpatient medicines to about 1 percent of GDP, in line with the
European Union average, by the end of 2014, according to the
draft report. In 2010 the health bill totalled more than 13
billion euros, or about 5 percent of GDP.  The proposals include measures to curb fraudulent billing.
Reimbursement fraud costs Greece more than 500 million euros a
year, according to the European Federation of Pharmaceutical
Industries and Associations.  Greece will also seek to boost generic-drug sales to 35
percent of the total volume of medicines sold in the country’s
pharmacies by the end of this year, according to the draft
report. The total is targeted to reach 60 percent by the end of
next year. Part of the plan is to cut prices of copied drugs --
sold in Greece at a smaller discount than in other markets -- to
40 percent of the originals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  