-- Greece Struggles to Win Second Financial Bailout as Europe’s Doubts Mount
-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r
-- 2012-02-15T09:05:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/greece-struggles-to-win-second-bailout.html
European officials ratcheted up the
pressure on the Greek government to deliver spending cuts in
exchange for a second bailout as they insisted that default is
not an option.  Finance ministers canceled a Brussels meeting slated for
today and will hold a teleconference instead to prod  Greece  to
do more to clinch an aid package worth 130 billion euros ($171
billion) along with about 100 billion euros of debt relief from
private bondholders. Greece needs the money to make a 14.5
billion-euro bond payment on March 20.  The decision to cancel the meeting is “very worrying,”
and “reflects a growing concern amongst some euro-area
countries that Greece will not abide by the conditions of the
second bailout package,” said Nicola Mai, an economist at
 JPMorgan Chase (JPM)  Bank in London. “It appears that some euro-area
countries are willing to let Greece default.”  Two years after pledging to pull Greece back from the
brink, European leaders are torn between pouring more aid into
the struggling economy or risking an unprecedented national
bankruptcy that might force the country out of the euro and
prompt renewed market tumult.  “The decision was the result of an evaluation by the head
of the eurogroup,  Jean-Claude Juncker , that there weren’t
sufficient elements of consensus to be sure that a meeting would
be successful,” Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti  said late
yesterday on Sky Italy Television.  Greek Pledges  After Juncker cancelled the gathering, citing the lack of
political assurances from Greek leaders to stick to austerity
pledges, a government official in Athens said the leaders of
Greece’s two biggest political parties, New Democracy’s Antonis Samaras and Pasok’s  George Papandreou , will today provide the
written commitments demanded.  Greek Prime Minister Lucas Papademos’s Cabinet agreed to
make up a 325 million-euro gap in unaccounted for austerity
measures from cuts to defense, public investment and local
authorities, two government officials said yesterday. Cuts will
also be made to the health budget, one said. The measures still
need to be approved by European governments and the
 International Monetary Fund , the officials said.  The euro erased a loss of as much as 0.8 percent on the
news of the Greek politicians’ pending promises. The currency
traded up 0.2 percent at $1.3133 at 9:23 a.m. in Berlin.  Ring-Fencing Greece  Meantime, evidence mounted that the euro’s guardians have
made progress ring-fencing Greece’s woes. Italy yesterday sold 6
billion euros of bonds at lower borrowing costs as investors
shrugged off a downgrade of its  credit rating  by Moody’s
Investors Service.  Speaking on ZDF television, German Finance Minister
 Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Feb. 13 that if efforts to prop up
Greece come to naught, “we’re better prepared than two years
ago.”  Finance Minister Jan Kees  de Jager  of the Netherlands, one
of four AAA rated states left in the euro area, pushed back
against suggestions from  Athens  that the aid bill will be 15
billion euros higher than planned.  “We agreed upon 130 billion,” De Jager told Dutch RTL
television yesterday. “If now it seems more is needed, we
should explore other ways.”  Targets Missed  Greece has depleted its credibility by missing targets for
 deficit reduction , economic reforms and asset sales that were
set when it obtained a 110 billion-euro aid package in May 2010.  As a result, the once-taboo notion of a departure or
expulsion from the  euro zone  has crept into the mainstream
political debate.  “If they don’t do this, they exclude themselves from the
euro zone and the impact on the other countries now would be
less important than maybe a year ago,” Luxembourg Finance
Minister Luc Frieden said at the Atlantic Council in  Washington 
this week.  Also unclear was whether the  European Central Bank , buyer
of 219.5 billion euros of weaker countries’ bonds in the past
two years, would contribute to debt relief in the new package.  Euro statutes bar the central bank from financing
governments. One workaround would be for the ECB to funnel
profits from its Greek holdings back through its national
branches to euro governments.  ECB Holdings  “These bonds were acquired at an average price that is
below face value,” ECB Executive Board member Benoit Coeure
told Liberation newspaper in an interview published yesterday.
“If there is a profit, as with all monetary holdings, it should
be distributed to the states. They can use it to contribute to
sustainability of Greece’s debt.”  The central bank probably spent about 47 billion euros to
buy Greek bonds with a face value of 60 billion euros, yielding
potential profits of 13 billion euros, according to Juergen Michels, chief European economist at Citigroup in  London .  “What we agreed upon in the eurosystem is that we don’t
wish to make a profit on Greece,” ECB Governing Council member
Luc Coene said on Feb. 13 in remarks that were embargoed until
today. “So when we distribute profit from a given year to the
Belgian state, we will provide a breakdown of what’s due to
Greece and it’s then up to the government to decide how to use
it,” said Coene, who also is head of  Belgium ’s central bank.  Representatives of Greece’s private creditors had planned
to travel to Brussels in expectation of progress on the
“voluntary” debt-relief accord that was another condition for
the official aid.  “Policy makers are still scrambling, and markets have
gotten used to it, but there is still a general feeling that the
Greece situation will not have a happy ending regardless of what
they agree to,” said  Jay Mueller  , who manages about $3 billion
of bonds at  Wells Fargo (WFC)  Capital Management in  Milwaukee .  To contact the reporter on this story:
James G. Neuger in Brussels at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  