-- Grupo Mexico Wins $82.8 Million From Sterlite in Lawsuit Over Asarco Deal
-- B y   D a v i d   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-02-14T20:48:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/grupo-mexico-wins-83-million-in-sterlite-case-over-asarco-1-.html
Grupo Mexico  SAB’s Asarco LLC won
$82.8 million in a lawsuit against copper producer Sterlite
Industries (India) Ltd. over a failed deal to buy Asarco out of
bankruptcy, less than the $2.28 billion it was seeking.  U.S. Bankruptcy Judge Richard Schmidt in  Corpus Christi ,
Texas, awarded the damages to Asarco in a ruling yesterday. The
copper miner had argued it suffered damages of $2.28 billion
from Sterlite’s decision in 2008 to walk away from an agreement
to buy the company, according to the decision.  Sterlite, which blamed a drop in copper prices for failing
to complete the deal, harmed Asarco by delaying its exit from
bankruptcy, Schmidt said. The judge reduced the damages because
Grupo  Mexico  and Sterlite waged a 2009 bidding war for Asarco,
which Grupo Mexico won.  “Damages must be reduced to reflect a subsequent
mitigating transaction even if such transaction differs
structurally from the initial transaction,” Schmidt said.
“Here, the mitigation effort started immediately after the
alleged breach and continued until the bankruptcy process
resulted in the parent being declared the winner.”  Jorge Pulido, head of investor relations for Mexico City-
based Grupo Mexico, which owns Tucson, Arizona-based Asarco,
declined to comment on the ruling. Schmidt awarded Asarco $132.8
million in damages less a $50 million letter of credit that
Asarco was authorized in 2009 to draw down.  Sterlite, based in India, is a unit of  Vedanta Resources
Plc. (VED)  A Sterlite spokesman couldn’t immediately be reached for
comment after business hours.  The case is Asarco LLC v. Sterlite (USA) Inc., 10-02010,
U.S. Bankruptcy Court, Southern District of Texas (Corpus
Christi).  To contact the reporter on this story:
 David McLaughlin  in New York at 
 dmclaughlin9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Pickering at   jpickering@bloomberg.net  