-- Michael Kors Rises as Status Symbols Push Profit Past Estimates
-- B y   A l e x a n d e r   Y a b l o n
-- 2012-02-14T21:04:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/michael-kors-rises-as-status-symbols-push-profit-past-estimates.html
Michael Kors Holdings Ltd. (KORS) , the
luxury-goods maker and retailer founded by the eponymous designer, had the biggest gain since its stock-market debut
after accessories sales drove earnings to more than double
analysts’ estimates.  Kors had earnings excluding some items of 28 cents a share
for the third quarter ended Dec. 31, according to a statement
today. That topped the 11-cent average  estimate  of analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales at stores open a year or more
climbed 38 percent from a year earlier.  “These guys have the best momentum we’ve seen in all of
retail, and they show no signs of slowing,” said  Paul Lejuez ,
an analyst for Nomura Securities in New York.  Lejuez, who recommends buying Kors shares, said the
company’s collections of small, luxury accessories, such as
handbags and watches, put the brand in a “sweet spot.” The
products “have really started hitting people’s radar screens as
a go-to accessible luxury brand,” he said in a telephone
interview.  Kors rose 27 percent to $42.76 at the close in New York,
the biggest jump since the initial public offering in December
at $20 a share.  Fiscal third-quarter sales rose 70 percent to $354 million,
according to the company’s statement, and total revenue,
including royalties, advanced 68 percent. Net income climbed 40
percent to $39 million, or 20 cents a share.  The company’s watches, which sell for $120 to $525 at
department stores such as Macy’s, have “become a status symbol
for a certain demographic,” said Corinna Freedman, an analyst
with Wedbush Morgan Securities in  New York , in a telephone
interview.  The analyst said that “for a luxury brand, they’re
surprisingly affordable.” Freedman rates the stock
“outperform.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexander Yablon in New York at 
 ayablon@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  