-- Tiger Woods to Play Honda Classic in Florida for First Time in Pro Career
-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 2012-02-14T20:10:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/tiger-woods-to-play-honda-classic-in-florida-for-first-time-in-pro-career.html
Tiger Woods will play at the U.S.
 PGA Tour ’s  Honda Classic  in Palm Beach Gardens,  Florida , for the
first time in his professional golf career.  The competition at the PGA National Champion Course on
March 1-4 would be the middle event of three straight weeks of
tournament play for Woods. It would be the first time he played
three consecutive PGA Tour events since the summer of 2009. The
Honda Classic is staged about 20 miles from his new home in
Jupiter Island, Florida.  Woods, 36, faded to a 15th-place finish at the Pebble Beach
National Pro-Am in  California  two days ago and is still seeking
his first full-field U.S. PGA Tour win since September 2009. He
tied for third in his season-opening event in  Abu Dhabi  after
entering the final round tied for the lead with winner  Robert
Rock .  “I’m excited about my start and look forward to keep
building,” Woods said on his  website . “I’ve made great strides
and hopefully all my hard work will pay off with a victory
soon.”  Prior to the Honda Classic, Woods has committed to play in 
the World Golf Championships-Match Play event in  Arizona . He’s 
also scheduled to play in the World Golf Championship event at 
Doral Resort in Miami the week after the Honda tournament.  Woods last played in three consecutive events during the 
2009 FedEx Cup playoffs when he competed in the Barclays
tournament, the Deutsche Bank Championship and the BMW
Championship in consecutive weeks. The BMW tournament
marked Woods’s last regular-season win on the U.S. PGA Tour.
He ended a 749-day winless drought in December at the Chevron
World Challenge an 18-player invitational hosted by Woods.  A 14-time major tournament champion, Woods is four titles
shy of tying  Jack Nicklaus ’s record of 18 majors. The Masters
Tournament, golf’s first of four majors, is set for Augusta
National Golf Club in Georgia on April 5-8.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Atlanta  at
 Mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 