-- LightSquared to Be Blocked by U.S. on Interference Report
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-15T22:34:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/lightsquared-conflict-with-gps-devices-can-t-be-fixed-u-s-regulator-says.html
The U.S. Federal Communications
Commission vowed to block LightSquared Inc. after the Obama
administration found the wireless venture backed by hedge-fund
billionaire  Philip Falcone  would disrupt navigation gear.  Federal agencies determined that LightSquared’s signals
interfere with global-positioning system devices, Tammy Sun, an
FCC spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-mailed statement. The
agency is preparing to withdraw the preliminary approval it
granted last year for the company to build a high-speed network
serving as many as 260 million people, Sun said.  “The commission clearly stated from the outset that
harmful interference to GPS would not be permitted,” Sun said.
“The commission will not lift the prohibition on
LightSquared.”  The FCC’s action marks a blow to LightSquared and a setback
for Falcone’s  Harbinger Capital Partners (SKYT)  hedge fund, which has
invested $3 billion in the venture. It follows a yearlong
lobbying fight between LightSquared and opposing GPS companies
that featured a series of government tests denounced by
LightSquared as flawed.  “We remain committed to finding a solution,” LightSquared
Chief Executive Officer Sanjiv Ahuja said in an e-mailed
statement today. The company received approval for its ground-
based network from the FCC in 2005, Ahuja said.  ‘Devastating Blow’  “Yesterday, after LightSquared had already spent nearly $4
billion, the FCC changed its mind,” Ahuja said. “There can be
no more devastating blow to private industry and confidence in
the consistency of the FCC’s decision-making process.”  Sun didn’t immediately return a telephone call and e-mail
seeking a response to Ahuja’s statement.  FCC Chairman  Julius Genachowski  said at a news conference
today that “all parties will have a chance to make their case”
as the agency moves forward.  Tests and analyses conducted by the government and
LightSquared found that the company’s proposed ground-based
network would interfere with navigation equipment including gear
used by aircraft, Lawrence Strickling, administrator of the
 National Telecommunications and Information Administration , said
in a letter yesterday to Genachowski.  “There are no mitigation strategies that both solve the
interference issues and provide LightSquared with an adequate
commercial network deployment,” Strickling said. He is
President Barack Obama’s top adviser on telecommunications, and
his agency is a branch of the Commerce Department.  ‘Acted Appropriately’  LightSquared (SKYT)  said yesterday it disagreed with Strickling’s
findings. The NTIA and the advisory board that informed its
decision “disregard more than a decade of regulatory orders,
and in doing so, jeopardize private enterprise, jobs and
investment,” the company said in an e-mailed statement.  GPS makers say LightSquared improperly plans to send
powerful data signals on airwaves reserved mainly for faint
emissions from satellites. The company has proposed building a
network supported by as many as 40,000 ground-based towers,  “The FCC has acted appropriately,” Jim Kirkland, general
counsel of GPS gear maker  Trimble (TRMB)  Navigation Ltd., said in an e-
mailed statement yesterday. Trimble is part of the Coalition to
Save Our GPS, a group formed to oppose LightSquared that
includes package shippers  FedEx Corp. (FDX)  and United Parcel Service
Inc., GPS-unit maker  Garmin Ltd. (GRMN) , Delta Air Lines Inc. and
 Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV) , and farm-equipment maker  Deere & Co. (DE)   Spectrum Crunch  LightSquared said GPS makers should have planned to
accommodate its use of airwaves near those used by navigation
devices, and that technical solutions are available.  The Obama administration has made it a priority for more
airwaves to be available for mobile use. LightSquared has said
its service would  help ease  an airwaves shortage that
Genachowski has called a “spectrum crunch” gathering force as
people turn increasingly to wireless devices such as Apple
Inc.’s iPhone and iPad.  LightSquared, a wholesaler, has announced deals with more
than 30 partners including Best Buy Co., and $586 million in
funding led by UBS AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co. The service will
let retail partners cut customers’ mobile-data costs in half,
Ahuja said in an interview Dec. 9.  The company’s travails in Washington have weighed on
Falcone’s hedge fund, which in 2005 began investing in
LightSquared’s predecessor, SkyTerra Communications Inc.  Falcone’s Fund  Harbinger managed $4 billion at the end of last year, down
from a peak of $26 billion in mid-2008. It wrote down its
LightSquared position by 59 percent last year because of the
uncertainty over LightSquared approval.  Harbinger is paying a 15 percent interest rate for a $190
million loan, almost triple what the riskiest corporate
borrowers pay, said two people with knowledge of the loan.  LightSquared has pursued FCC approval since November 2010,
and cited previous agency decisions that it says granted
permission to build towers for its network.  The Washington fight has featured at least four House
hearings, and questions from Republican lawmakers who said the
Obama administration may have pressured agencies on behalf of
LightSquared after receiving campaign donations from Falcone.
The company said it isn’t seeking government funding, and the
White House said it has respected the FCC’s independence.
Falcone has contributed to Democratic and Republican causes
alike, campaign finance records show.  Further Investigation  “Now that the interference issue is settled, we need to
find out more than ever why the FCC did what it did,” Senator
 Charles Grassley , an Iowa Republican who has been investigating
the FCC’s interactions with LightSquared, said in an e-mailed
statement today. “The agency put this project on a fast track
for approval with what appears to have been completely
inadequate technical research.”  Grassley is blocking two FCC nominees until he gets more
documents from the FCC, and the Democrat-led agency is operating
with three members compared with its normal five.  Representative Greg Walden, an Oregon Republican who chairs
the Subcommittee on Communications and Technology, has said he
plans a hearing on how the agency’s handling of LightSquared led
to a year of dispute.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  