-- Mild Weather Moves Into East Next Week While Cold Stays in West
-- B y   B r i a n   K .   S u l l i v a n
-- 2012-02-14T13:40:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/mild-weather-moves-into-east-next-week-while-cold-stays-in-west.html
Temperatures in the eastern U.S. are
expected to be higher next week while cooler weather remains in
the West, forecasters said.  Average temperatures in the Great Lakes and Ohio Valley may
be 5 to 7 degrees Fahrenheit (2.8 to 3.9 Celsius) above normal
from Feb. 19 to Feb. 23, according to a 6- to 10-day outlook
from MDA EarthSat Weather in Gaithersburg,  Maryland .  “The period starts a bit cooler along the East but also
ends warmer, limiting the net change overall,” MDA said.  The coldest part of the year has passed in the U.S., which
means seasonal weather has less of an impact on energy use for
heating. Traders watch temperature predictions to gauge demand
for natural gas, heating oil and electricity.  About 51 percent of U.S. households use natural gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  There is a chance some areas along the East Coast will have
lower than normal temperatures, said  David Salmon , owner of
Weather Derivatives in Belton, Missouri.  The coastal areas of  Georgia ,  North Carolina  and  South
Carolina  and parts of northern New Jersey may be about 2 degrees
cooler than normal from Feb. 20 to Feb. 24, he said.  Some computer models suggest a snowstorm might develop
along the East Coast this weekend, which may keep temperatures
down, according to MDA.  East Coast Warmth  By the end of February, temperatures may be 5 to 8 degrees
above normal along the East Coast while colder air grips the
western U.S. and Canada, according to  Matt Rogers , president of
Commodity Weather Group LLC in Bethesda, Maryland.  In his 8- to 10-day forecast, Rogers predicts that
temperatures across Alberta, Saskatchewan and Montana will be 8
degrees below normal.  Temperatures in the mid-Atlantic region and the Northeast,
including  New York , Boston and Philadelphia, may be 8 to 14
degrees above normal from Feb. 22-23, according to MDA.  The normal average temperature in New York on Feb. 22 is 37
degrees, according to MDA. It’s 33 in Boston; 38 in
Philadelphia; 49 in Atlanta; 30 in Chicago; 52 in Dallas; 44 in
Seattle; and 57 in Burbank, California.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian K. Sullivan in Boston at 
 bsullivan10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  