-- Lin Jersey Worn While Beating Kobe to Be Auctioned for Charity, Knicks Say
-- B y   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-14T19:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/lin-jersey-worn-while-beating-kobe-to-be-auctioned-for-charity-knicks-say.html
The No. 17  New York  Knicks jersey
Jeremy Lin wore in outdueling  National Basketball Association 
scoring leader Kobe Bryant will be auctioned for charity, the
team said.  The highest bidder on  CharityBuzz.com  for the autographed
jersey worn during the Knicks’ 92-85 win over the  Los Angeles
Lakers  on Feb. 10 also will get four tickets to New York’s Feb.
22 game against the  Atlanta Hawks  and an opportunity to meet
Lin, the team said in a statement.  The proceeds from the auction, which ends Feb. 21, will
benefit the  Garden of Dreams Foundation , a nonprofit
organization that works closely with Madison Square Garden Co.
in making wishes come true for children facing obstacles. The
top bid is currently $4,750.  Lin, the first Harvard University graduate to play in the
NBA since Ed Smith in 1953-54 and the fourth Asian American in
league history, has captured the imagination of Knicks’ fans and
worldwide attention since first playing extended minutes in a
Feb. 4 win over the New Jersey Nets, scoring 25 points with
seven assists.  A second-year player, Lin was cut by both the  Golden State
Warriors  and the  Houston Rockets  during the offseason. This week
he’s on the  cover  of  Sports Illustrated .  He was added to New York’s starting lineup Feb. 6 against
the  Utah Jazz  and became the first player in NBA history to
score at least 20 points and collect seven assists in his first
four starts, according to the Elias Sports Bureau. Lin, 23,
scored a career-high 38 points in leading New York to the win
over the Lakers and Bryant, who had 34.  Playing mostly without All-Stars Carmelo Anthony, who is
injured, and Amar’e Stoudemire, whose brother died in a car
accident, the Knicks (13-15) have won five straight games.  Toronto Sellout  Stoudemire will return tonight as New York visits the
 Toronto Raptors  in what will be a sellout, according to Tom Anselmi, the Raptors’ chief operating officer.  “You’ve caught lightning in a bottle with the young
fella,” Anselmi said in a telephone interview. “We’ve probably
sold 3,000 tickets in the last couple of days.”  The game will be the third sellout this season for the
Raptors (9-20) at the 19,800-seat Air Canada Centre, Anselmi
said. The team is averaging 16,550 fans per game.  New York begins a five-game homestand tomorrow at Madison
Square Garden against the Sacramento Kings. The average online
ticket price for the game has risen 94 percent to $293 in the
last week, according to TiqIQ, an aggregator of the ticket
resale market.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net . 