-- India Inflation Cools to Slowest Pace in 26 Months; Bonds, Stocks Advance
-- B y   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-02-14T15:12:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/india-inflation-cools-to-slowest-pace-in-26-months-bonds-stocks-advance.html
Indian inflation eased to the lowest
level in more than two years in January, adding to the central
bank’s case to cut  interest rates  as economic growth weakens.
Bonds and stocks climbed.  The benchmark wholesale-price  index  rose 6.55 percent from
a year earlier, the commerce ministry said in a statement in New
Delhi today, compared with 7.47 percent in December. The median
of 25 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey was 6.7 percent.  The Reserve Bank of  India  last month signaled readiness to
join nations from Brazil to  Indonesia  in lowering rates if
inflation eased further, with today’s report showing it has
cooled to below the central bank’s forecast of 7 percent by
March. Pressure to shield growth is rising after the government
said the economy may expand by the least in three years.  “There is a sustainable decline in core inflation and
growth continues to be below trend but the only unseen is the
fiscal-deficit number,” said  Sonal Varma , a Mumbai-based
economist at Nomura Holdings Inc. The budget gap is “the only
reason why we are expecting a rate cut in April” rather than
earlier, she said.  The rupee,  Asia ’s worst performer last year with a 16
percent slide against the U.S. currency, weakened 0.4 percent to
49.3681 per dollar at the close in Mumbai. The BSE India
Sensitive Index rose 0.4 percent. The yield on the 8.79 percent
note due November 2021 declined three basis points, or 0.03
percentage point, to 8.18 percent from 8.21 percent.  Slowing Growth  Expansion has slowed after the Reserve Bank fought price
increases by raising borrowing costs a record 3.75 percentage
points from March 2010 to October last year, to 8.5 percent.  Inflation exceeded 9 percent each month from December 2010
to November 2011 before moderating in December as food costs
fell. Last month’s gain in the wholesale-price index remains the
fastest inflation rate in the so-called BRIC group of major
 emerging markets  that also includes  Brazil , Russia and  China .  “I think inflation should be further reduced,” Finance
Minister  Pranab Mukherjee  told reporters in New Delhi today.
“It is still not at an acceptable level.”  Indian  industrial output  rose 1.8 percent in December from
a year earlier, missing estimates and signaling weakening
domestic demand, a report showed last week.  The impact of  Europe ’s debt crisis on exports has added to
economic risks, with a trade deficit the commerce ministry
projects at $160 billion for 2011-2012 threatening renewed
pressure on the rupee. The currency has rebounded 7.5 percent so
far this year.  Rate-Cut Signal  Indian gross domestic product may climb 6.9 percent in the
12 months through March from a year earlier, the least since
2008-2009, the government predicted this month. The economy grew
8.4 percent in each of the last two financial years.  The ability to lower rates could spur faster expansion in
the 2012-2013 fiscal year, RBI Governor Duvvuri Subbarao said in
an interview published in the Wall Street Journal today.  The  Reserve Bank  on Jan. 24 cut the amount of deposits
lenders need to set aside as reserves for the first time since
2009 to ease a cash squeeze. It left the repurchase rate
unchanged for a second meeting.  The central bank said inflation risks, such as the
depreciation of the rupee and the fiscal shortfall, made it
premature to cut rates last month, while reinforcing guidance
that future rate actions “will be towards lowering them.”  “The pace of rate reduction will depend on the fiscal
situation,” Deputy Governor Subir Gokarn said at a conference
in Mumbai. “The budget is an opportunity for consolidation.”  Food-Price Decline  Food prices declined 0.52 percent in January compared with
a year earlier, today’s report showed. Manufactured-products
inflation was 6.49 percent, moderating from 7.41 percent in
December. Fuel and power prices rose 14.21 percent last month,
easing from 14.91 percent. India relies on imports to meet
three-quarters of its annual energy needs.  Maruti Suzuki India Ltd. (MSIL) , the country’s biggest carmaker,
increased prices as much as 3 percent in January, citing higher
input costs and the weaker rupee.  Mukherjee is due to present the budget on March 16, the day
after the Reserve Bank’s next monetary policy meeting. Credit
Suisse Group AG and Yes Bank Ltd. are among companies saying a
rate cut is possible next month in Asia’s third-largest economy.  India may miss its goal of cutting the fiscal gap to 4.6
percent of GDP by March by at least 1 percentage point,
according to Standard Chartered Plc and ICICI Securities Primary
Dealership Ltd.  The Congress party, which leads the ruling federal
coalition, is under pressure to revive growth after corruption
allegations and protests against inflation hampered both its
legislative agenda and efforts to boost investment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  