-- King Sees U.K. Inflation Reaching 2012 Goal With Risk of Slowing Too Far
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n   a n d   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-14T10:51:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/inflation-rate-in-u-k-drops-to-14-month-low-as-tax-increase-impact-fades.html
Bank of England  Governor  Mervyn King 
said policy makers added stimulus this month because they judged
that there was a “downside” risk of inflation slowing too far
beyond the 2 percent goal.  “The committee’s best collective judgment is that CPI
inflation will continue to fall back to around the target by the
end of 2012,” King said in a letter to Chancellor of the
Exchequer  George Osborne  released by the central bank in London
today. Officials decided this month that “in the absence of
further policy action, the balance of risks around the inflation
target in the medium term lay to the downside.”  King’s comments follow the publication of data showing that
 inflation  slowed to the weakest in 14 months in January, and
last week’s move by policy makers to pump another 50 billion
pounds ($79 billion) into the economy. With inflation at 3.6
percent still exceeding the upper limit targeted by the central
bank, the governor is obliged to write to the government
explaining the deviation and what he will do about it.  “We will reevaluate the outlook for inflation and our
policy stance every month,” King said. The Monetary Policy
Committee “stands ready to react as necessary to changes in the
balance of risks to the inflation outlook.”  King said that officials will “pay particular attention”
to the outlook for the euro-region economy, and implications for
the banking system and credit conditions, while also monitoring
spare capacity in the economy and inflation expectations.
Moody’s Investors Service said late yesterday it may strip the
U.K. of its top  credit rating , citing risks from  Europe ’s debt
crisis.  ‘Weak’ Growth  The pound was little changed against the dollar from
yesterday, and traded at $1.5763 as of 10:32 a.m. in London. It
earlier fell as much as 0.5 percent. Bonds were also little
changed, with the yield on the 10-year gilt at 2.13 percent.  King will release new economic growth and inflation
projections at a press conference in London tomorrow. In
November, the central bank forecast that consumer-price growth
would slow to 1.7 percent by the end of this year, below its 2
percent target.  “Growth remains weak and unemployment is high,” he said
in the letter. While inflation will slow further, “the pace and
extent” remains “highly uncertain.”  Core Inflation  The slowdown in inflation in January was partly driven by
the unwinding of a sales-tax increase by the government in
January 2011. Consumer prices fell 0.5 percent from December,
according to the report. Prices for food and non-alcoholic drink
declined 0.4 percent, while costs for clothing and shoes plunged
4.9 percent.  Core annual inflation , which excludes alcohol, food,
tobacco and energy prices, slowed to 2.6 percent in January from
3 percent in December. Retail-price inflation, a measure used in
wage negotiations, eased to 3.9 percent from 4.8 percent, the
weakest since February 2010. The retail-price index excluding
mortgage-interest payments rose an annual 4 percent, down from 5
percent.  King also said that policy makers can only achieve so much
through their actions.  “The unwelcome combination of sluggish growth and high
inflation over the past two years is a reflection of the need
for the economy to rebalance,” he said. “There is a limit to
what monetary policy can achieve when real adjustments are
required.”  Osborne said in a letter replying to King that “monetary
policy has a critical role in supporting this rebalancing” and
“it is the first line of defense in the face of economic
shocks.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net 
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  