-- InterContinental Hotels 2011 Profit Advances 57%, Aided by U.S. and China
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B o y l e
-- 2012-02-14T10:10:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/intercontinental-hotels-2011-profit-advances-57-aided-by-u-s-and-china.html
InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG) ,
the world’s largest provider of hotel rooms, reported profit
that beat estimates and declared a bigger-than-expected dividend
as business travel recovered, led by the U.S. and greater China.  Operating profit in 2011 rose 26 percent to $559 million,
the Denham, England-based company said today, more than the $541
million average estimate of 12 analysts compiled by Bloomberg.
The  dividend  was increased 15 percent to 55 cents a share,
exceeding the average analyst estimate of 52 cents.  Chief Executive Officer Richard Solomons said the hotelier
is well-placed to benefit from demand in  emerging markets  such
as the greater China region, which accounts for about 12 percent
of group revenue. Growth in revenue per available room, or
revpar, accelerated in January, the company said.  “The only big surprise was the dividend increase,” said
 Karl Burns , an analyst at Shore Capital in Liverpool. “The U.S.
has been consistently strong and looks to remain that way,” he
said of the hotelier’s biggest revenue source.  InterContinental Hotels  rose 0.9 percent to 1,415 pence at
9:48 a.m. in  London  trading. The shares have risen 22 percent
this year, compared with a 23 percent gain for U.S. competitor
Marriott International Inc. and a 16 percent increase for
 Starwood Hotels & Resorts Worldwide .  Strong January  Global revpar last month rose 6 percent from January 2011,
compared with growth of 4.6 percent in the fourth quarter,
InterContinental Hotels said. The Americas region led the
monthly gain with a 7.7 percent advance.  Business and leisure travel is recovering after companies
and consumers cut spending during the global recession of 2008.
Revenue per room in the industry rose 9.8 percent last year in
the Asia-Pacific region, and 8.2 percent in the Americas,
according to London-based researcher STR Global.  At InterContinental, renovation of the Holiday Inn brand
helped boost the chain’s average revpar in the U.S. by 7.9
percent in 2011. The company is now repositioning its Crowne
Plaza brand, a project that should be complete by 2015, it said.  “The Holiday Inn relaunch is delivering strong revpar, and
we’re now using a similar approach with Crowne Plaza, which is
our highest priority,” Solomons said. “There is good momentum
in the U.S.”  In Greater  China , revpar increased 10.7 percent last year
and more than a quarter of the 180,484 rooms in the company’s
development pipeline are in that region. InterContinental has
doubled revenue from China over the past two years, and will
unveil a new hotel brand there later this year, Solomons said.  New York Barclay  “We have developed this new brand primarily for Chinese
guests,” the CEO said. “Oversupply is always a risk, but we
are not concerned, as demand is growing hugely.”  The company’s Chinese hotels “will likely come under some
demand pressure” in 2012, Simon French, an analyst at Panmure
Gordon in London, said in a note today. Industry-wide occupancy
rates across the Asia-Pacific region were little changed in
2011, according to STR Global.  InterContinental increased the total number of rooms by 2
percent last year to almost 660,000. It gets most of its income
from franchising. Solomons said he’s seeing “good interest”
from potential buyers of the InterContinental New York Barclay
hotel and has whittled the list down to one preferred bidder.  Panmure’s French estimates a $250 million after-tax gain
from the sale of the Barclay, which he expects to be returned to
shareholders in the form of a share buyback. In 2006,
InterContinental sold seven European hotels for 634 million
euros ($835 million) to focus on managing properties.  Solomons said acquisitions “are not a priority now” as
the company focuses on growing its existing brands and
introducing new brands in China and the U.S.  Starwood said last week that worldwide revenue per
available room for 2011 grew 7.4 percent, at the low end of the
hotelier’s October forecast of 7 percent to 9 percent before
currency adjustments, as demand in  Europe  weakened. Marriott
plans to report fourth-quarter results on Feb. 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Boyle in London at 
 mboyle20@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  