-- Third Point to Nominate Slate for Yahoo
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-14T23:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/third-point-to-nominate-slate-for-yahoo.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  shareholder  Third Point 
LLC will nominate four directors to the company’s board because
a recent overhaul, including the departure of co-founder Jerry
Yang, didn’t go far enough to assuage concerns about the
company’s growth prospects.  Third Point, which has been critical of the board, said the
company should add  Daniel Loeb , chief executive officer and
founder of Third Point, Harry Wilson, CEO of Maeva Advisors LLC,
Michael Wolf, CEO of Activate Inc., and Jeffrey Zucker, former
CEO of NBC Universal, according to a regulatory filing today.  “The recently announced changes do not put the issuer on
the right track towards maximizing shareholder value,” Third
Point said in the filing. “Installing the hand-picked choices
of the current board does nothing to allay investor fears that
Yahoo is poised to repeat the errors of its past.”  Third Point said that while the newly appointed directors
Fred Amoroso and Maynard Webb have some technological expertise,
the board needs to do more to address the company’s future.  Yahoo, owner of the largest U.S. Web portal, began a
strategic review after it fired its CEO,  Carol Bartz , in
September. The company, now under the leadership of  Scott Thompson , last week said Chairman Roy Bostock and three others
would not stand for re-election as directors.  The new board envisioned by Third Point would include its
nominees and other Yahoo directors. It would exclude Patti Hart,
head of the nominating and corporate governance committee, the
recently appointed directors and the members planning to exit,
according to the filing.  Yahoo, based in Sunnyvale,  California , fell 4.7 percent to
$15.37 as of 4 p.m. New York time.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ; 