-- Ireland Hires Goodbody to Review Value of Allied Irish Stake
-- B y   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 2012-02-14T20:08:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/ireland-hires-goodbody-to-assess-comical-allied-irish-value.html
Ireland’s  National Pension Reserve
Fund  hired  Goodbody Stockbrokers  to review the valuation of its
holding in  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  because the bailed-out
lender’s market value, now at 66 billion euros ($86 billion), is
“inappropriate” for the agency’s accounting purposes.  The fund, which funded three-quarters of the state’s 20.7
billion-euro bailout of  Allied Irish  in the past three years,
put a preliminary 1 euro-cent value on the stock at the end of
December, said David Clerkin, a spokesman for the NPRF in
Dublin. Allied Irish trades at 12.9 cents today after soaring 85
percent this year.  Bank of Ireland Plc , the nation’s largest
bank, rose 62 percent to 13.2 cents this year.  “AIB’s recent share price is comical, as the moves closely
reflect the recent strong performance by Bank of Ireland,
despite the diverging fortunes of both banks,” said  Stephen Lyons , an analyst with Dublin-based securities firm Davy. Bank
of Ireland is 15.1 percent state owned. “An implied 66 billion-
euro market cap more than covers the recapitalization cost of
the entire Irish banking system.”  The trading anomaly first emerged in August, following the
state’s most recent capital injection into Allied Irish at the
end of July. At the time, the NPRF bought 5 billion euros of new
shares in the bank for 1 cent each, in an accord that valued
group at about 5.1 billion euros. The government owns 99.8
percent of Allied Irish following its bailout.  ‘Valuation Review’  “The NPRF has commissioned an independent fair market
valuation review in respect of both its ordinary and preference
share holding in AIB and will include this valuation in its
annual report,” Clerkin said.  Allied Irish is Europe’s fourth-largest bank by market
value, behind  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBC) ,  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , and  OAO
Sberbank (SBER)  and it’s “inappropriate” to rely on its quoted share
price, as the amount of tradable stock is very small, Clerkin
said by e-mail.  The bank’s price “makes little sense and reflects a
continuing ban on short-selling of its shares,” and the fact
that it is thinly traded by retail investors, with no
institutional stock changing hands, Davy’s Lyons said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Joe Brennan  in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  