-- Italian Company Bond Performance Rebounds to First From Worst: Euro Credit
-- B y   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-14T10:51:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/italian-company-bonds-rebound-to-first-from-worst-euro-credit.html
Italian corporate bonds account for
seven of the top 10 performers this year as investors renew
their holdings of securities they shunned at the peak of
 Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis.  Bonds of  Finmeccanica SpA (FNC) , Italy’s largest defense company,
Telecom Italia SpA and  Lottomatica SpA (LTO)  climbed as much 25
percent this year, the biggest price increases in the  Markit
iBoxx Euro Non-Financials  index, which tracks 743 securities
with a face value of 631 billion euros ($831 billion). Italian
issues, the third-biggest national group in the global index,
fell more than any other euro-region company notes last year,
plunging as much as 31 percent. Italy was one of six European
nations downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service yesterday.  “Yields were at a level indicating that companies were on
the verge of bankruptcy, which wasn’t true,” said Angelo Drusiani, who manages about 3 billion euros at Banca Albertini
Syz & C. in Milan. “Some fund managers who decided to exit from
Italian corporate bonds are now piling back in.”  That’s helping Italian borrowers benefit more than other
euro-region firms from a two-month rally fueled by the  European
Central Bank ’s flood of cheap three-year cash. The rally is also
a vote of confidence in Prime Minister  Mario Monti ’s 20 billion
euros of budget cuts and tax increases to reduce the region’s
second-biggest debt load after  Greece .  Finmeccanica, Lottomatica  Finmeccanica’s 5.25 percent 2022 notes jumped 17 cents, or
25 percent, this year to 85.3 cents on the euro, driving yields
to 7.4 percent, Bloomberg Bond Trader prices show. The yield on
securities sold by the Rome-based developer of the Eurofighter
rose to as high as 11.2 percent on Nov. 29. Lottery company
Lottomatica’s 500 million euros of 5.375 percent notes due 2018
rose 11 percent since the start of the year to 99.2 cents on the
euro, while prices on Rome-based Telecom Italia’s 7.75 percent
securities due 2033 climbed 13 percent.  Italian companies offered some of the widest yield premiums
to government debt at the start of the year, according to Andrew Sheets, head of European credit strategy at Morgan Stanley in
London. “They benefited from the fact that investors had
reduced their exposure to Italian credits quite a bit in the
fourth-quarter, which was more conducive for improved
performance,” he said.  Bond Rally  The extra yield investors demand to buy Italian company
bonds instead of government debt has tumbled to 288 basis
points, or 2.88 percentage points, from 377 basis points at the
end of December, according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s
EMU Corporates, Non-Financial Index. That compares with an
average of 168 basis points for the whole index, which tracks
securities issued by companies from Deutsche Telekom AG and GDF
Suez SA in  France  to Moline, Illinois-based Deere & Co.  Italian corporate bond prices have tracked the rally in the
nation’s sovereign debt, where yields on 10-year government debt
have tumbled to 5.6 percent after reaching a euro-era record 7.3
percent on Nov. 25.  The  yield  premium on Italian debt compared with German
bunds fell for a second day, declining seven basis points to 361
basis points. The spread fell to a low for this year of 347 on
Feb. 9.  The spread versus bunds on  France (.FRANGER) ’s 10-year note rose 0.3
basis point to 98, while Spanish  spreads  were little changed at
332 basis points and the extra yield on Greek securities widened
to 3,106.  Monti Fans  Borrowing costs for  Italy , which had its  credit rating  cut
to BBB+ from A by  Standard & Poor’s  last month, surged in 2011
amid concern the nation would struggle to refinance its 440
billion euros of maturing debt. Prime Minister Monti has
garnered praise from French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  for
“spectacular progress” after pushing through spending cuts and
tax increases designed to eliminate Italy’s budget deficit by
2013.  “If Italian sovereign yields perform well, then it makes
sense for investors to look for performance from corporates,”
said Chris Bullock, a fund manager at Henderson Global Investors
Ltd. in London, which oversees 18 billion euros in fixed-income
assets. “The market essentially likes Mario Monti.”  Italy was downgraded to A3 from A2 with a negative outlook,
Moody’s said in a statement yesterday. The company also reduced
ratings on  Spain ,  Portugal , Slovakia, Slovenia and Malta, citing
“uncertainty over the euro area’s prospects for institutional
reform of its fiscal and economic framework.”  The ECB’s 489 billion euros of three-year loans to 523
lenders in December is also underpinning investor faith in both
banks and euro-denominated bonds. A second longer-term
refinancing operation, or LTRO, is planned for Feb. 28.  ‘Outsized Help’  “The LTRO and the improvement in sovereign and bank
funding markets has probably helped Italy more so than most,”
said Morgan Stanley’s Sheets. “The LTRO has boosted confidence
in this ability to refinance, which has been an outsized help to
Italian corporates as well as banks.”  The corporate bond rally has renewed investor demand for
higher-yielding debt from the euro region’s so-called peripheral
nations such as Italy, Spain and Ireland. Italian corporate
securities yield 4.4 percent on average, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch data. That compares with 3.1 percent for
French company debt and 2.4 percent on German company bonds.  “Four weeks ago, no one wanted peripheral risk, now they
can’t get enough of it,” said  Suki Mann , a credit strategist at
Societe Generale SA in  London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  