-- Britain May Lose Top Moody’s Rating After Debt Downgrades for Italy, Spain
-- B y   B e n   L i v e s e y   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 2012-02-14T11:02:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/italy-spain-portugal-ratings-lowered-by-moody-s-as-u-k-outlook-negative.html
Moody’s Investors Service cut the
debt ratings of six European countries including Italy,  Spain 
and Portugal and said it may strip France and the U.K. of their
top Aaa ratings, citing  Europe ’s debt crisis.  Spain was downgraded to A3 from A1 yesterday, Italy to A3
from A2 and Portugal to Ba3 from Ba2, all with negative
outlooks. Slovakia, Slovenia and Malta also had their ratings
lowered.  “Policy makers have made steps forward but we do not think
they have done enough to reassure the market that we are on a
stable path,” said Alistair Wilson, chief credit officer for
Europe at Moody’s in London. “What will guide long-term ratings
is the clarity and the performance of policy makers and the
macro picture.”  The euro reversed losses after a report showed German
investor confidence rose more than economists forecast in
February. Moody’s decision highlighted the risk that the
European debt crisis will deepen even as the region’s finance
ministers prepare to meet tomorrow to discuss a second aid
package for Greece, following the country’s approval of
austerity measures.  AAA Ratings  Still, recent rating reductions have done little to deter
investors, who poured money into the government bonds of nations
such as  France  and Austria even after the countries lost their
AAA ratings at Standard & Poor’s last month. U.S. Treasuries
returned three times as much as AAA corporate bonds since the
world’s biggest economy was cut by one rank in August.  “The  ratings agencies  are kind of behind the curve,” said
Shen Jianguang, chief economist for Greater China at Mizuho
Securities Asia Ltd., who previously worked for the
 International Monetary Fund . “The risks have actually been
falling in Europe. There may be worries that countries cutting
fiscal spending may drag on their economic growth, but the
concerns aren’t new and the downgrade should have minimal impact
on  market sentiment .”  The Stoxx Europe 600 Index rose 0.3 percent at 12 p.m. in
 Frankfurt , reversing earlier losses. The euro appreciated 0.2
percent, trading at $1.3205.  “The uncertainty over the euro area’s prospects for
institutional reform of its fiscal and economic framework,” and
the resources that will be made available to deal with the
crisis, are among the main drivers of Moody’s action, the
ratings company said.  ‘Weak Prospects’  Moody’s yesterday also lowered its outlook on  Austria ’s Aaa
rating to negative. Malta’s rating was downgraded to A3 from A2,
and Slovakia and Slovenia were both downgraded to A2 from A1.
All three were given negative outlooks. In a statement earlier
today, the ratings company affirmed its top Aaa rating for the
European Financial Stability Facility.  Moody’s said Europe’s “increasingly weak macroeconomic
prospects” threaten the “implementation of domestic austerity
programs and the structural reforms that are needed to promote
competitiveness.” It said market confidence “is likely to
remain fragile, with a high potential for further shocks to
funding conditions for stressed sovereigns and banks.”  ECB Injection  Investors have ignored credit rating companies’ concerns
about Europe and focused instead on steps taken by policy makers
to end the crisis. While  Standard & Poor’s  on Jan. 13 cut the
credit rating of nine euro-region states, yields on most
governments bonds continued to edge lower since the  European
Central Bank  on Dec. 21 allotted a record 489 billion euros
($643 billion) in three-year loans to banks.  Yields on Italian 10-year bonds have dropped more than 1
percentage point since ECB’s injection, while French 10-year
yields have declined 20 basis points in that period.  In the U.K., Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
said his fiscal consolidation program is the only thing stopping
Britain from an immediate downgrade.  “This is proof that, in the current global situation,
Britain cannot waver from dealing with its debts,” Osborne said
in an e-mailed statement released by the Treasury in  London 
yesterday.  The spending cuts that helped the U.K. preserve its AAA
credit rating at Standard & Poor’s last year and bolstered the
pound have weighed on the currency this year as investors lose
confidence that Prime Minister  David Cameron  will revive
economic growth. Sterling had its worst January since 2008
against a basket of nine developed-market peers, falling 0.6
percent, after a 3.1 percent advance in the second half of 2011,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Relatively Weak’  The National Institute for Economic and Social Research
forecasts the U.K. economy will shrink 0.1 percent this year and
grow 2.3 percent in 2013, compared with previous projections in
October for growth of 0.8 percent and 2.6 percent.  “The U.K.’s fiscal trends are relatively weak among top-
rated countries, mainly because of the U.K.’s relatively high
pre-crisis structural deficit and recent prolonged economic
weakness,”  Michael Saunders , chief European economist at
Citigroup Inc. in London, wrote in an e-mailed note. “A
negative outlook statement typically indicates there is about a
one in three chance of a ratings downgrade in the next 18
months.”  Brussels Meeting  French Finance Minister  Francois Baroin  said the country’s
AAA rating was maintained by Moody’s because of “the size of
its economy” and its “increased productivity.”  Baroin’s comments were included in an e-mailed statement
from the  Finance Ministry  after Moody’s downgraded the rating
outlook to negative.  Germany  and the European Commission yesterday welcomed
Greek approval of the austerity steps demanded for a financial
lifeline, suggesting euro finance chiefs will pull  Greece  back
from the brink when they meet tomorrow.  The Greek parliament’s backing “is a crucial step forward
toward the adoption of the second program,” EU Economic and
Monetary Affairs Commissioner  Olli Rehn  told reporters in
Brussels. “I’m confident that the other conditions, including
for instance the identification of the concrete measures of 325
million euros, will be completed by the next meeting” of
finance ministers.  Euro-area finance chiefs will convene in Brussels for their
second extraordinary meeting on Greece in a week. Frustrated
after two years of missed budget targets, ministers declined to
ratify the 130 billion-euro package in a special session on Feb.
9, demanding that Greek officials put their verbal commitments
into law.  “It’s important for now to complete this program,” German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  said in Berlin. “The finance ministers
will meet again on Wednesday to undertake the work on this, but
there can’t and there won’t be any changes to the program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ben Livesey in London at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net ;
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ben Livesey at 
 blivesey@bloomberg.net  