-- Italy-Spain Borrowing Costs Decline at Auction Following Moody’s Downgrade
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s   a n d   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-02-14T12:01:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/italy-spain-borrowing-costs-decline-at-auction-following-moody-s-downgrade.html
Italian and Spanish borrowing costs
plunged to the lowest in at least 11 months at debt sales today
as investors ignored downgrades by Moody’s Investors Service.  Italy  sold 6 billion euros ($7.9 billion) of bonds, meeting
its target as its three-year borrowing costs fell to 3.41
percent, the lowest since March.  Spain  sold 12-month bills at an
average rate of 1.899 percent, the least since October 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. Belgium,  Greece  and the
Netherlands also sold debt, as total euro region issuance today
amounted to 20 billion euros.  “The idea of Moody’s downgrading the country was really
not a factor that went against it because it probably was
already priced in,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income analyst at
Newedge Group in  London , said in an e-mail about the Italian
sale.  Italy and Spain were both cut to A3 by Moody’s, which cited
uncertainty over the euro region’s ability to deal with the
sovereign debt crisis even as it said new governments in both
countries were taking steps to overhaul their finances. Demand
for government debt is being underpinned by three-year loans
made in December by the  European Central Bank , which will offer
a second round of the financing, known as LTRO, at the end of
this month.  ‘Background Noise’  “Moody’s two-notch downgrade of Spain is more background
noise than anything else,” Nicholas Spiro, managing director of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London said in an e-mailed comment.
“There’s nothing new here and it is unlikely to disturb the
post-LTRO landscape.”  The yield on Spain’s benchmark 10-year bond was unchanged
after the auction at 5.285 percent. The spread over German bunds
of the same maturity was 334 basis points, compared with 333
basis points yesterday. Italian 10-year bonds yielded 365 basis
points more than bunds, compared with 367 basis points
yesterday.  Under the terms of the ECB’s three-year operation, banks
can take the 1 percent loans and then invest the cash elsewhere,
for example in  government bonds , or redeposit the funds with the
central bank. Spanish Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  said on Jan.
30 the facility is boosting demand for Spanish government bonds.  Spanish banks’ ECB borrowings rose to 133.2 billion euros
in January, the most on record, the Bank of Spain said today.
 Francisco Gonzalez , chairman of Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria
SA, Spain’s second-largest bank, had said before the first
three-year auction that such a measure would allow banks to buy
more sovereign debt.  Italy and Spain are now rated the same by Moody’s, even as
Spain’s debt burden was 61 percent of GDP at the end of 2010,
compared with 118 percent for Italy. The  extra yield  on Italian
bonds compared with Spanish equivalents has narrowed to 29 basis
points, from as much as 202 basis points on Dec. 30.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in Madrid at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net ;
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome  at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  