-- Italian Notes Rise as Costs Drop at Sale; Spanish Debt Slides on Downgrade
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n   a n d   L u k a n y o   M n y a n d a
-- 2012-02-14T16:42:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/italian-two-year-notes-advance-as-borrowing-costs-fall-at-sale-bunds-drop.html
Italian bonds advanced for a second
day as the nation’s borrowing costs fell at a sale of 6 billion
euros ($7.9 billion) of debt.  Spain’s bonds underperformed their Italian peers after
Moody’s Investors Service cut its  credit rating  by two steps,
amid downgrades for six European countries.  Italy ’s grade was
lowered by one level and Moody’s revised the outlook on  France ’s
Aaa rating to negative. German  government bonds  rose after data
showed Greece’s economy contracted in the fourth quarter. German
investor confidence surged to a 10-month high in February, a
separate report showed.  “The Italian auction in particular went very well,” said
 John Davies , a fixed-income strategist at WestLB AG in London.
“The auctions this morning went very smoothly given what we’d
seen from Moody’s. These and this ZEW survey have contributed
well to risk appetite overall.”  Italian two-year note yields dropped two basis points, or
0.02 percentage point, to 3.06 percent at 4:34 p.m.  London  time.
The 2.25 percent note due November 2013 rose 0.04, or 40 euro
cents per 1,000-euro face amount, to 98.70.  The Italian Treasury sold 4 billion euros of benchmark
securities due November 2014 to yield 3.41 percent, down from
4.83 percent at the last auction of similar-maturity bonds on
Jan. 13 and the  lowest  since March. It also sold a total 2
billion euros of bonds due in 2015 and 2017. The Netherlands
sold five-year notes today and Spain, Greece and  Belgium 
auctioned bills.  ‘Better Situation’  With about 450 billion euros of debt to sell this year,
Italy’s Prime Minister  Mario Monti  is taking steps to lure
investors by spurring the economic growth needed to reduce the
euro-region’s second biggest debt load after  Greece . Ten-year
 yields  have dropped about 2 percentage points from as high as
7.48 percent in November after Monti replaced  Silvio Berlusconi .
They fell three basis points to 5.57 percent today.  Italy “managed to sell the maximum target they had in mind
which is a good sign,” said Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-income
analyst at Newedge Group in London. “Moody’s downgrading the
country was really not a factor that went against it because it
probably was already priced in and people are still thinking
that the government is going to make the right reforms to put
the country into potential growth and a better situation.”  Italy was cut to A3 by Moody’s yesterday, which cited
uncertainty over the euro region’s ability to deal with the
sovereign debt crisis even as it said the new government in the
country took steps to overhaul its finances.  Spain  was
downgraded to A3 from A1 and  Portugal  to Ba3 from Ba2, with
negative outlooks. Moody’s also lowered the ratings of Slovakia,
Slovenia and Malta.  Spain-Italy Spread  “Policy makers have made steps forward but we do not think
they have done enough to reassure the market that we are on a
stable path,” said Alistair Wilson, chief credit officer for
 Europe  at Moody’s in London.  Spain’s 10-year bond yield rose three basis points to 5.29
percent. The  extra yield  investors get to hold Italian 10-year
bonds instead of Spanish securities fell six basis points to 28
basis points, the least since Nov. 22, based on closing market
rates.  Portugal’s 10-year bonds snapped a five-day run of gains,
with the yield climbing 11 basis points to 12.03 percent. The
French 10-year  yield  advanced five basis points to 2.96 percent.  Investor Confidence  German bunds rose even as the ZEW Center for European
Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and
analyst expectations rose to 5.4 from minus 21.6 in January.
That’s the highest since April 2011. Economists forecast a gain
to minus 11.8, according to the median of 40 estimates in a
Bloomberg News  survey .  The German 10-year yield dropped two basis points to 1.91
percent. Two-year yields fell one basis point to 0.24 percent.  Germany ’s 10-year bonds outperformed their French
counterparts, with the yield spread widening by seven basis
points to 105 basis points. It has increased from 86 basis
points on Feb. 10, the least since Dec. 1.  Goldman Sachs Inc. said it ended a recommendation to favor
Italian 10-year bonds over their French counterparts after the
yield difference narrowed toward its 250-basis point target,
putting the trade in line for an 8.75 percent return.  It initiated the recommendation on Jan. 8, with the Italian
securities yielding 376 basis points more than the French bonds,
Francesco Garzarelli, co-head of fixed-income strategy in
London, wrote in a note to clients today. The spread was at 261
basis points today.  Greek Contraction  Greek two-year  notes slumped  as the Athens-based Hellenic
Statistical Authority said gross domestic product dropped 7
percent from a year earlier in the fourth quarter after
contracting a revised 5 percent on an annual basis in the third
quarter. GDP declined 6.8 percent for the full year, according
to Bloomberg calculations, compared with a 6 percent contraction
estimated in the government’s 2012 budget.  The two-year note yield jumped almost 24 percentage points
to 207.38 percent, with the price on the securities dropping to
19.47 percent of face value.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said the
European Union is now better prepared than two years for the
possibility of a default by Greece.  “We want to do everything to help Greece,” Schaeuble said
in an interview with ZDF public television yesterday. If
everything fails “we’re better prepared than two years ago,”
Schaeuble said in response to a question.  He spoke as euro-area finance ministers prepared to meet in
Brussels tomorrow to discuss a financial rescue package.  Greek bonds have handed investors a loss of 64 percent in
the past year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and
the European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. German
bunds returned 11 percent in the period and Italian bonds made a
profit of 2 percent, the indexes show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net ;
Lukanyo Mnyanda in Edinburgh at 
 lmnyanda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  