-- Italy’s Sells Maximum 6 Billion Euros at Bond Sale as Yields Plunge
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-02-14T12:09:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/italy-meets-goal-at-6-billion-euro-bond-sale-as-yields-lowest-since-march.html
Italy  sold 6 billion euros ($7.9
billion) of bonds, meeting its target, as borrowing costs on its
benchmark debt fell to the lowest since March even after the
nation was downgraded by Moody’s Investors Service.  The Treasury sold 4 billion euros of benchmark securities
due in November 2014 to yield 3.41 percent, down from 4.83
percent at the last auction of similar-maturity bonds on Jan.
13. Investors bid for 1.4 times the amount offered for the 2014
bonds, up from 1.22 times in January. The Rome-based Treasury
also sold a total of 2 billion euros of bonds due in 2015 and
2017 to yield 3.77 percent and 4.26 percent respectively.  Italy’s borrowing costs have been falling as Prime Minister
 Mario Monti  takes steps to spur the economic growth needed to
reduce the euro-region’s second biggest debt and amid  European
Central Bank  lending to the region’s bank that is shoring up
demand for government bonds. Monti’s government passed 20
billion euros of budget cuts and tax increases in December to
balance the budget in 2013. It followed last month with measures
to spur competition and reduce bureaucracy.  Today’s auction “is a sign that the government’s efforts
to make significant changes in the Italian economy are actually
buying confidence amongst investors,” Annalisa Piazza, a fixed-
income analyst at Newedge Group in  London , said in a note
published after the auction. “All lines were well absorbed,
despite last night’s downgrade by Moody’s that in our view was
somehow expected.”  Funding Needs  Italian bonds gained today, with the 10-year yield falling
two basis points to 5.58 percent at 12:28 a.m. in  Rome . The
extra yield investors demand to hold the securities instead of
benchmark German debt fell four basis points to 3.62 percentage
points.  Italy, which needs to sell about 450 billion euros of debt
this year, auctioned 12 billion euros in bills yesterday and
rates on the one-year debt fell to the lowest since June.  Borrowing costs dropped even after Moody’s lowered Italy’s
rating overnight to A3 from A2, citing a weak outlook and
possible funding shocks for sovereigns and banks. Five other
European nations were also downgraded.  Moody’s action came after  Fitch Ratings  and  Standard &
Poor’s  lowered the country’s credit rating last month. Italian
bond yields have fallen since those downgrades as the  European
Central Bank (EURR002W)  offered banks unlimited three-year loans, propping
up demand for  government securities . The Frankfurt-based ECB has
also been purchasing Italian bonds since August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  