-- Jackie Chan Business Jet Shows Embraer’s China Breakthrough
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2012-02-15T01:18:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/jackie-chan-business-jet-shows-breakthrough-for-embraer-in-china.html
Embraer SA (EMBR3)  is using the star power
of Hong Kong-born actor  Jackie Chan  at the Singapore Airshow as
competition intensifies in China’s business-jet market.  Chan’s Embraer Legacy 650 jet, with his name and the
Chinese character for “dragon” on its tail, is on display at
this week’s event as the Brazilian manufacturer competes with
 General Dynamics Corp. (GD) ’s Gulfstream and  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B)  in
capturing Chinese sales projected to grow 15 percent a year.  China’s business-jet fleet may increase to 2,470 planes by
2030 from 150 in 2010, according to Montreal-based Bombardier,
as the nation liberalizes airspace regulations and rising wealth
spurs demand. The world’s fastest-expanding major economy had
about 1.11 million millionaire households in 2010, according to
 Boston Consulting Group .  “ China ’s business aviation has witnessed explosive growth
since 2009 as the super-rich look beyond cars and yachts to
jets, and as financial institutions flock to the market,” said
Jenny Lau, Chief Executive Officer at Hong Kong-based  Sino Jet
Management Ltd. , which will manage Chan’s plane. “In the next
three to five years, the Chinese market will be the main story,
with all the big planemakers focusing on it.”  Minsheng Bank  Minsheng Financial Leasing Co., the leasing arm of Hong
Kong-listed  China Minsheng Banking Corp. (600016) , ordered three Lineage
1000 ultra-large executive jets, Embraer said in a statement at
the air show yesterday. The plane maker also won orders for 12
E195 commercial jets from  Brazil ’s Azul Linhas Aereas
Brasileiras, it said.  Bombardier sees “great potential” in China, where it has
a market share of 30 percent in registered and certified
business jets, Christophe Degoumois, vice president for business
aircraft sales, said in an interview at the show. Chinese
classical pianist Lang Lang flies a Bombardier jet to
performances, Degoumois said.  Textron Inc. (TXT) ’s Cessna Aircraft Co., the world’s biggest
builder of business jets by deliveries, expanded its China sales
staff in the past year and expects to complete a service
facility with sister company Bell Helicopter in Singapore in the
second quarter, it said in a  statement  at the air show.  ‘Rapid Pace’  By 2025, China is “expected to become one of the top 10
countries for business-jet ownership,” Cessna Vice President
Trevor Esling said in the statement. The Asia-Pacific region
accounts for 10 percent of Cessna’s business-jet sales, he said.  “Rising national prosperity and Chinese airspace
liberalization make it likely that the business aviation market
will mature at quite a rapid pace,” Esling said.  Savannah, Georgia-based Gulfstream said yesterday it will
open a training facility in Hong Kong equipped with a flight
simulator for operators of its G450 and G550 jets. The center,
operated in a partnership with FlightSafety International Inc.,
will cater to pilots and technicians in  Asia , who previously had
to travel to the U.S. for training.  “This is the first simulator dedicated solely for
business-jet operators in Asia,” Larry Flynn, president of
Gulfstream, said in the statement.  About 80 Gulfstream aircraft are located in Hong Kong and
mainland China, with a total of 175 in the Asia-Pacific region,
according to the statement. Gulfstream controls 48 percent of
the regional market for large-cabin  business jets , it said.  Market ‘Very Big’  Ernie Edwards, president of Embraer’s executive jet
division, said China’s market for business jets may grow to as
many as 635 planes by 2021. Embraer is aiming for a market share
of 15 to 20 percent in the country, said Edwards, who estimated
it currently has 10 to 12 percent.  “Over the next 10 years, we expect almost $17.5 billion of
executive jets being delivered into China,” Edwards said
yesterday at the air show. “The market is very big.”  Minsheng’s Lineage 1000 jets will be delivered starting
this year, Embraer said in yesterday’s statement. Embraer
previously received  orders  for 13 of its Legacy 650 planes from
Minsheng Financial, it said in a Feb. 3 statement.  Minsheng Leasing also ordered 50 Gulfstream aircraft, worth
$2.6 billion at list prices, in July, the largest business-jet
deal signed by a Chinese plane lessor.  Harbin Factory  Embraer hopes to win final government approval in the first
half of this year to convert a factory in Harbin, China, that
will build Legacy 650 planes, Edwards said. Production of the
plane would begin “shortly after that” at the plant, which
previously made regional commercial jets, he said.  The company plans to make as many as 20 Legacy planes a
year in Harbin, it said in April.  The Chinese market is still dwarfed by the U.S. and  Canada ,
which had a combined fleet of 9,700 business jets in 2010,
according to Bombardier.  “High aircraft import taxes, a shortage of airport
infrastructure for business aviation and high user fees are
among the factors” explaining the lower number in China,
Bombardier said in its 2011 market forecast.  The country, whose airspace is mostly controlled by the
 People’s Liberation Army , is liberalizing its low-altitude
airspace to boost development of general aviation, according to
a 2010  report  by the state-run Xinhua News Agency. The
government plans to set up a market-oriented system for access
by 2015, according the report, which cited a joint notice by the
State Council and the military.  Chinese Restrictions  The number of civilian airports in China is expected to
grow to 244 by 2020 from 156 in 2009, according to Bombardier’s
forecast report.  “There’s a recognition that the country needs to develop
and grow,” Embraer’s Edwards said. “There are still
restrictions in China that one doesn’t experience in other parts
of the world.”  The government typically requires a two-day notice for
private-jet flights from  Hong Kong  to mainland China, said Chris
Buchholz, Chief Executive Officer of Hongkong Jet, a subsidiary
of China’s HNA Group.  “They’ve made access to China a lot easier in recent
years,” Buchholz said in an interview.  Demand, which was initially focused on Beijing and
 Shanghai , is growing in other cities, and mainland  China (CNGDPYOY)  will be
a bigger market in the long term than Hong Kong, Buchholz said.  Kung Fu Panda  Chan, the Hong Kong-born star of movies including “Rush
Hour” and “Kung Fu Panda,” was named a “brand ambassador”
for Embraer last year. He received his Legacy 650, the first
delivered to a Chinese customer, this month and will promote
Embraer’s line of executive jets in China as well as globally,
the company said in a Feb. 3 statement.  Embraer teamed up with Chan after Bombardier named “Pulp
Fiction” star  John Travolta , a licensed jet pilot, as brand
spokesman for its Learjet, Challenger and Global jets.  Chan’s Legacy 650 has a 3,900-mile range, enough to fly
nonstop from Beijing to Dubai or Hong Kong to  Adelaide ,
 Australia , according to the manufacturer. It can carry as many
as 13 passengers in its three-zone cabin on shorter trips.  “He’s never owned his own private aircraft before,”
Embraer’s Edwards said of Chan in a Bloomberg Television
interview yesterday. “He’s very, very popular throughout the
world, but most significantly he’s popular here in China and
 Southeast Asia , Asia in general.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jasmine Wang in Hong Kong at 
 jwang513@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in  Singapore  at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  