-- Japan’s Glory to Buy Talaris to Expand in ATM Market Abroad
-- B y   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-02-14T18:15:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/japan-s-glory-to-buy-talaris-to-expand-in-atm-market-abroad-2-.html
Glory Ltd. (6457)  will buy  Talaris  Topco
Ltd. of the U.K. to expand in the overseas market for automated
tellers and other money-handling machines.  Glory (6457) , based in the western Japanese prefecture of Hyogo,
will offer to buy the closely held company from  Carlyle Group 
for 80 billion yen ($1 billion), according to a statement filed
to the Tokyo Stock Exchange.  “By acquiring Talaris we aim to become the world’s top
brand” for money-handling machines, Hirokazu Onoe, Glory’s
president, said today at a news conference in  Osaka . “We are
targeting overseas markets that are expected to grow.”  Glory, whose customers include Bank of America Corp. and
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc., seeks to boost revenue more
than 20 percent to 170 billion yen in the three years ending
March 2015, by increasing business in foreign countries, Onoe
said in an interview in August. The company faces a declining
market in  Japan , where a government report yesterday showed the
economy shrank an annualized 2.3 percent in the fourth quarter,
more than analysts forecast, as exports fell.  Carlyle, one of the largest private equity fund managers,
bought Talaris in 2008 from British bank note maker De La Rue
Plc for 360 million pounds ($566 million),  Carlyle (CG)  said in a
statement today. Earnings have increased 40 percent since,
helped by expansion into new markets such as  Brazil , the
Washington-based firm said.  Glory’s decision to buy Talaris comes after what Onoe
called “several unsolicited” proposals last year from
brokerages for him to buy the Hampshire, U.K.-based company.  Cash Offer  Glory, which has a market value of about 118 billion yen,
this month reported nine-month net income fell 18 percent to
3.65 billion yen. It reiterated its forecast for a 4.4 percent
increase in profit to 6.5 billion yen in the year ending March.
Sales are forecast to rise 4.3 percent.  The Talaris purchase is expected to be completed in the
year starting April 1, pending approval by regulators, Onoe said
today. Glory plans to pay 650 million pounds in cash, including
debt owed by Talaris, he said.  Bank of America Corp.’s Merrill Lynch unit advised Carlyle,
while  KPMG  advised Glory.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Drew Gibson at 
 dgibson2@bloomberg.net  