-- Jefferies Loan Syndication Deal for Harbinger Fails if CEO Falcone Charged
-- B y   T i f f a n y   K a r y   a n d   K a t h e r i n e   B u r t o n
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/jefferies-loan-syndication-deal-for-harbinger-fails-if-ceo-falcone-charged.html
Jefferies Group Inc. (JEF)  has been trying
to spread the risk of a $190 million loan to Phil Falcone’s
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC by offering a syndication deal
with an unusual caveat: it defaults if Falcone is indicted.  Jefferies has been marketing all or part of the loan to
other investors, said a person with knowledge of the situation.
Loan documents detail the securities firm’s pitch to investors,
saying it’s collateralized by $2.4 billion in assets in
Harbinger’s main fund. The terms include a “key man” provision
mandating the loan’s default if Falcone reduces his role, his
ownership stake, or is indicted for any criminal offense.  “It’s not standard,” said  Martin Fridson , global credit
strategist at BNP Paribas Investment Partners, referring to the
indictment clause. “Absent an ongoing investigation, companies
would take offense at having such a provision in there.”  Harbinger as of November 2010 was the subject of federal
probes by prosecutors and regulators into possible securities
law violations, according to two people familiar with the
inquiries. Falcone, 49, is Harbinger’s chairman and chief
executive officer whose stake in the main fund is worth at least
$850 million, according to the documents. The key man provision,
one of 23 events of default listed in the loan documents, is the
only one that is highlighted in the pitch book to investors.  Default Terms  Aside from the clauses that apply to Falcone, the provision
specifies that that the loan will default if any other Harbinger
employee is indicted for crimes tied to investment activities at
the company, according to the loan documents, which were
obtained by Bloomberg News.  The clause states that “events of default” that would
allow “required investors” to sell collateral include “CEO of
Harbinger Capital Partners LLC or president of HRG is indicted
for a criminal offense.”  Such provisions are negotiated when a CEO or other official
is seen as linked to a company’s performance, and could be
highlighted in this case because of investigations into
Harbinger by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the
 Justice Department , Fridson said.  Falcone, along with fund executives Omar Asali and Robin Roger, the general counsel, received notices in December from
the SEC, saying the commission may sue over securities law
violations. The SEC is investigating whether Harbinger gave some
investors preferential treatment, and is also probing a $113
million loan Falcone took from one of his funds, according to
the people familiar with the probe who declined to be identified
because the matter isn’t public. The U.S. attorney’s office in
 Manhattan  is also investigating the loan, the people said.  Preferential Treatment  John Nester , a spokesman for the SEC, declined to comment
on the status of the agency’s probe of Harbinger. The U.S.
attorney’s office doesn’t confirm or deny investigations,
Caroline Sullivan, a spokeswoman, said.  Falcone has denied giving preferential treatment to any
investors. He hasn’t been accused of any wrongdoing.  “A clause such as this is not unusual in loan documents
where the borrowing financial institution is closely aligned
with an individual,” said Lew Phelps, a spokesman for  New York- 
based Harbinger, in an e-mail. “In fact, in this case, the
default trigger was not included because of any pending
investigation -- whether by the DOJ or the SEC. Rather, many
prudent lenders would include such language even in the absence
of any investigation.”  Nothing New  Phelps said with respect to the Justice Department interest
in Harbinger, “there is nothing new that we are aware of.”  Richard Khaleel, a spokesman for New York-based Jefferies,
declined to comment on the loan syndication, the key man
provision or the probes.  Falcone, who founded Harbinger in 2001, bet millions in
2006 that securities cobbled together from subprime mortgages
would collapse, making the fund $11 billion in 2007. In 2008,
the fund was one of the world’s most successful hedge funds,
with assets of $26 billion. Now, Falcone manages about
$4 billion.  The Harbinger loan isn’t the first to be tied to the
specific circumstance of a CEO, said Fridson. When MF Global
Holdings Ltd. sold bonds in August 2011, there was a provision
that the interest rate would rise if Chairman and CEO  Jon Corzine  received a federal appointment from the U.S. government.  Corzine Speculation  There had been speculation that Corzine, the former
governor of  New Jersey , who had previously helped run Goldman
Sachs Group Inc., might be appointed Treasury Secretary or
become an economic adviser to the White House,  Christopher Allen , an analyst at Evercore Partners Inc. in  New York , said at
the time. That bond sale was managed by Jefferies.  “This is such a hot potato,” said Mark T. Williams, a
risk-management expert teaching at  Boston University  who isn’t
involved in the Harbinger loan deal. Williams said the provision
is unusual, as is its prominent placement in Jefferies’ pitch of
the loan to investors, and may be related to the ongoing federal
probes.  Jefferies is charging Harbinger a 15 percent  interest rate ,
showing that lenders regard Harbinger as risky and that
Jefferies has a need for immediate fee income, Williams said.  While the fund’s assets are estimated to be $2.4 billion,
they’re mostly illiquid, and Harbinger’s reputation is an issue
considering the recent notices from the SEC, Williams said.  Risky Deal  “Usually you’d line up the syndicate right away,”
Williams said. He also noted that a loan should be marketed
based on an investment’s cash flow, not its collateral. “It’s a
very risky deal. Jefferies should be in a mode of strengthening
its reputation,” he added, referring to the company’s sale of
sovereign debt risk in November.  Jefferies, whose stock dropped by almost half in 2011,
published a breakdown of its sovereign bond holdings after MF
Global Holdings filed for bankruptcy on Oct. 31, and later sold
about three-quarters of the holdings to prove they were liquid.  Harbinger Capital Master Fund’s 19.5 percent stake in
Ferrous Resources Ltd., an iron ore developer based in  Belo
Horizonte ,  Brazil , will be “marketed to investors
immediately,” with proceeds used to repay the notes, according
to the documents. Jefferies can liquidate collateral for the
loan if shares in  Harbinger Group Inc. (HRG) , a publicly traded
company that is 50 percent-owned by the hedge fund, trade below
$2.81 a share for five consecutive days, according to the
documents.  Shares Fall  Shares fell as much as 8 percent on the news and closed
little changed at $4.86 yesterday.  Jefferies’s loan to Harbinger, signed on Jan. 30, is
collateralized by assets including $1.07 billion of equity and
debt in LightSquared Inc., Harbinger’s wireless network venture.
It’s due Oct. 31, and has two scheduled prepayments, $47.5
million due April 30 and $47.5 million due July 31. Given that
Harbinger is receiving only $160 million in net proceeds from
the loan, the fund is paying an effective rate of 24 percent,
more than four times what the riskiest corporate borrowers pay.  The Obama administration said LightSquared’s wireless
venture would cause interference to global-positioning systems
that can’t be mitigated.  LightSquared’s proposed deployment would disrupt navigation
gear including equipment used by aircraft, Lawrence Strickling,
administrator of the  National Telecommunications and Information
Administration , said in a letter yesterday to the Federal
Communications Commission, an independent agency.  Loan Collateral  Other collateral for the loan is $469 million in common
stock of Harbinger Group; $486 million of equity in Ferrous
Resources; a $42 million loan to TMCI Holdings Inc., also known
as Manischewitz Co.; a $120 million equity investment in Asian
Coast Development Ltd., a casino resort in  Vietnam ; and an $88
million equity investment in Augere, a telecom startup based in
 Bangladesh .  All proceeds from sales of Ferrous Resources, Harbinger
Group, TMCI Holdings and equity interests in LightSquared will
also go to repay the loan’s principal or fund an interest
reserve account, according to the documents.  Balanced against the loan’s assets are $276.8 million in
liabilities, including the $190 million loan, a $38.9 million
tax payable and other items, according to the documents.  Harbinger lost 47 percent for investors in its main hedge
fund last year as Falcone was forced to cut the value of
LightSquared by more than half; the Reston, Virginia-based
company has been stymied by arguments that its systems will emit
signals that disrupt GPS gear guiding cars, tractors, boats and
aircraft. It’s seeking clearance from the Federal Communications
Commission as regulators weigh test results on the disruptions.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tiffany Kary in New York at 
 tkary@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Burton in New York at 
 kburton@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net ;
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  