-- JPMorgan, HSBC Among Firms Facing Canada Libor-Fixing Probe
-- B y   A n d r e w   M a y e d a   a n d   J o s h u a   G a l l u
-- 2012-02-14T23:53:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/jpmorgan-hsbc-are-among-seven-firms-facing-libor-fixing-probe-by-canada.html
JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Deutsche Bank
AG (DBK)  and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are among at least seven firms facing a
Canadian probe into whether they participated in a conspiracy to
manipulate prices on interest-rate derivatives.  The nation’s Competition Bureau is investigating conduct by
the group -- also including  Citigroup Inc. (C) , Royal Bank of
Scotland Group Plc, ICAP Plc and RP Martin Holdings Ltd. --
between 2007 and 2010, according to documents it filed with the
Ontario Superior Court in May. Investigators are examining
whether firms conspired to affect prices on derivatives linked
to the Yen  London  interbank offered rate, according to the
documents, which were shown to Bloomberg News by court clerks.  Alexa Keating, a spokeswoman for the  Competition Bureau ,
said in an e-mailed statement that “there is no conclusion of
wrongdoing at this time and no charges have been laid.”  Canadian officials opened the case after a “cooperating
party” told the bureau that banks, at times facilitated by cash
brokers, agreed to make artificially high or low submissions for
the benchmark rate known as Yen Libor, according to the
documents, which described the informant as a bank involved with
the matter.  Regulators in the U.S.,  Europe  and  Asia  are investigating
whether financial firms tried to manipulate benchmark  interest
rates  set by a survey of banks. The rates were used by investors
to gauge firms’ ability to borrow money at the height of 2008’s
credit crisis and can play a key role in prices on derivatives.  Libor Surveys  Libor rates are generated through a daily survey of firms
conducted on behalf of the British Bankers’ Association in
London. The lenders are asked how much it would cost them to
borrow from one another for 15 different periods, from overnight
to one year, in currencies including dollars, euros, yen and
Swiss francs.  Spokesmen for New York-based JPMorgan and Citigroup,
Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank, Edinburgh-based RBS and London-
based ICAP said they couldn’t immediately comment.  Diane Soucy Bergan, a spokeswoman for London-based HSBC in
 Chicago , didn’t immediately respond to requests for comment. A
call after normal business hours to a U.K. phone number listed
on RP Martin’s website for media inquiries wasn’t answered, nor
was a call to a number listed for the broker’s New York office.  The bureau described the claims in an application for court
orders compelling the companies to provide records, such as e-
mails. The firms may have influenced derivatives trading “on a
worldwide basis, including in  Canada ,” it said. The court
granted the orders.  Brokers, Traders  An ICAP broker allegedly told a derivatives trader that he
would try to get London-based brokers to influence banks
participating in setting Yen Libor, according to the bureau. A
trader at HSBC also allegedly communicated with cash brokers,
instructing them to influence the benchmark rate, the bureau
said. Not all attempts to manipulate the rate were successful,
according to an affidavit filed by the bureau.  The Canadian officials said they were seeking lists of
individuals responsible for making Yen Libor submissions,
internal communications and records describing so-called Chinese
walls separating workers within the banks.  They sought a list of interest-rate derivative trades,
including records showing whether the banks made a profit or
loss on them. They also requested records showing the process
banks used to price interest-rate derivatives and how traders
were compensated.  The cooperating party told the bureau that by manipulating
the rate, the participant banks affected all interest-rate
derivatives that use Yen Libor as a basis for their price,
according to the court filing.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Mayeda in Ottawa at 
 amayeda@bloomberg.net ;
Joshua Gallu in  Washington  at 
 jgallu@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net 
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  