-- BOE’s King Set to Give Clues on Stimulus
-- B y   S v e n j a   O ’ D o n n e l l
-- 2012-02-14T08:16:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/king-set-to-give-clues-on-stimulus.html
U.K.  inflation  probably weakened to
a 14-month low in January, continuing a slowdown that may
determine whether the  Bank of England  needs to expand its bond-
purchase program further.  Consumer prices rose an annual 3.6 percent after a 4.2
percent gain in December, according to the median forecast of 36
economists surveyed by  Bloomberg News survey  before a report
today. The inflation rate will require Bank of England Governor
 Mervyn King  to write a letter to Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne .  Policy makers, who forecast that inflation will slow to
below their 2 percent target, raised their bond purchases by  50
billion pounds  ($79 billion) to support growth. Risks to the
outlook prompted Moody’s Investors Service to say yesterday the
U.K. could lose its top credit grade. King will publish new
economic growth and inflation projections at a press conference
in London tomorrow.  “The bank is already predicting inflation falling below
target in the fourth quarter, and I share that view,” said
 Brian Hilliard , an economist at Societe Generale SA in London.
“They may do one more increase of 25 billion pounds in May.”  The pound fell 0.3 percent today and traded at $1.5721 at
8:01 a.m. in  London . The yield on the 10-year gilt rose 1 basis
point to 2.14 percent.  The  Office for National Statistics  in London will publish
the data at 9:30 a.m., while any letter from King, as well as
Osborne’s response, will be released an hour later by the
central bank.  New Forecasts  King forecasts that inflation will slow “sharply” this
year, partly as a government sales-tax increase in January 2011
drops out of the annual comparison. In November, the central
bank forecast a 1.7 percent rate at the end of this year,
falling to 1.3 percent by end-2013. The latest projections will
be published in the quarterly Inflation Report at 10:30 a.m.
tomorrow, when King will also answer questions on the economic
outlook.  The new round of bond purchases announced on Feb. 9, which
will take total gilts held by the central bank to 325 billion
pounds, will be completed in early May, when the bank will
release the results of its subsequent forecasting round.  Euro-Area Crisis  Turmoil in the euro area has dented confidence in the U.K.
and darkened recovery prospects. The  economy  shrank 0.2 percent
in the fourth quarter, its first contraction in a year, while
unemployment is at the highest in 16 years. Still, the
 Confederation of British Industry , the country’s biggest
business lobby, said yesterday the economy will avoid a
recession and growth will pick up this year.  Moody’s placed the U.K.’s Aaa rating on negative outlook to
reflect a “weaker economic environment” and risks from the
euro area’s sovereign debt crisis, the rating company said in a
statement late yesterday.  Data later this week will show jobless claims increased by
3,000 in January, according to the median of 24 estimates in a
Bloomberg survey. The fourth-quarter  unemployment rate  may have
held at 8.4 percent.  Retail sales  probably fell 0.3 percent last
month, economists said in another survey.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svenja O’Donnell in London at 
 sodonnell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  