-- Knicks’ ‘Linsanity’ Reaches Trademark Office as Winning Streak Goes On
-- B y   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k   a n d   M a s o n   L e v i n s o n
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/knicks-linsanity-reaches-trademark-office.html
Linsanity has reached the U.S.
Patent and  Trademark Office  as Jeremy Lin continues to lead the
 New York Knicks ’ winning streak.  Yenchin Chang, a 35-year-old Alhambra,  California , resident,
was the first of two people to file a trademark  application  for
the term “Linsanity.” The catch phrase is being used to
describe the frenzy surrounding the Knicks point guard who got a
3-pointer in the last second to seal a 90-87 win against the
 Toronto Raptors  last night.  Chang, who like Lin is of Taiwanese descent, said he isn’t
affiliated with the 23-year-old, Harvard University-educated
player who has guided the Knicks to a six-game winning streak
after being released by the  Golden State Warriors .  “I wanted to be a part of the excitement,” Chang, who
attended East  Los Angeles  College and who works in the
import/export business, said in a telephone interview. “I’m
very proud of Jeremy.”  Milord A. Keshishian, an attorney with Milord & Associates,
a patent, trademark and copyright firm in Los Angeles, said in a
telephone interview that the law “doesn’t bode well” for
anyone trying to make money through a Linsanity trademark.  “This looks like a bad-faith attempt to profit from Jeremy
Lin’s recent acclaim,” he said of the trademark applications.  Chang said he would be willing to sell the trademark if he
gained it and Lin wanted it.  “I’ll think about it when that time comes,” Chang said.
“Right now, I just want to have some fun with it.”  Chang made his filing on Feb. 7, according to the patent
and trademark office website. Lin, who wasn’t drafted by any
National Basketball Association team and had been signed and cut
by two clubs before landing with the Knicks in December, made
the first of his five consecutive starts the previous night.  T-Shirt Rights  Chang’s trademark application is for goods and services,
including T-shirts and hats, according to the website.  Lin’s jersey is the NBA’s top online seller since Feb. 4,
when he got his first prolonged action off the  New York  bench
and had 25 points and seven assists against the  New Jersey Nets .
Sales of Knicks merchandise are higher than any other team since
then, accounting for five of the 10 most popular items.  The second filing was made on Feb. 9 by Andrew W. Slayton
of  Los Altos , California. An Andrew Slayton who said he used to
coach Lin in high school told the  New York Post  that in 2010 he
registered the domain names Linsanity.com and
thejeremylinshow.com, where Lin-related merchandise is being
sold.  Physical Education Teacher  Slayton, who according to the newspaper works as a physical
education teacher at Pinewood High School in Los Altos, told the
Post that Lin isn’t aware of the websites.  A message left for Barbara Hantke, director of
communications for Pinewood, wasn’t immediately returned.
Slayton’s telephone number isn’t listed.  The application process starts with the examining
attorney’s review and approval. The mark then is published for
30 days and any parties that believe they may be harmed can file
opposition.  Gary Krugman, a partner at the Washington-based firm
Sughrue Mion, said in a telephone interview that he would advise
Lin to file his own application and contest whichever of the
others gets published.  “I have a feeling both of these guys are small
operators,” he said. “If Jeremy comes in with a big  law firm 
they won’t be able to hang with him.”  NBA attorneys, who protect league and team marks, usually
don’t get involved in individual player cases unless asked.  Player of Week  Roger Montgomery, Lin’s agent, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the trademark applications.
Stacey Escudero, a spokeswoman for  Madison Square Garden Co. (MSG) ,
parent of the Knicks, declined to comment on the case.  Lin was named the NBA’s Eastern Conference Player of the
Week two days ago after averaging 27.3 points and 8.3 assists,
becoming the first player in history to post at least 20 points
and seven assists in each of his first four starts.  Last night, Lin led the Knicks with 27 points and scored
the final six points as his team rallied from an 86-77 deficit
with a 13-1 scoring run to beat the Raptors.  The Knicks (14-15) return to Madison Square Garden for a
five-game home stand that begins tonight against  Sacramento . New
York hasn’t won seven straight since April 10 last season.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Scott Soshnick  in New York at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net ;
Mason Levinson in New York at 
 mlevinson@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  