-- Naira Heads to Three-Month High as Nigeria Probes Fuel Importers
-- B y   C h r i s   K a y
-- 2012-02-14T10:57:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/naira-heads-to-three-month-high-as-nigeria-probes-fuel-importers.html
Nigeria ’s naira advanced against the
dollar, heading for the highest in more than three months, on
speculation that foreign-exchange demand is waning during an
investigation into fuel importers.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer rose 0.4
percent on the  interbank market  to 158.55 per dollar, heading
for its highest close since Nov. 18, as of 11:21 a.m. in Lagos,
the commercial capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Nigeria’s parliament is probing whether fraudulent
practices by government agencies fueled a fivefold rise in
spending on gasoline subsidies in the past three years,
according to the head of the investigating committee.  “Speculative demand from oil importers and the fictitious
import deals to get dollars has come down because of the general
focus on that industry,” Jide Solanke, an analyst at First
Securities Discount House Ltd., said by phone from Lagos, the
commercial capital. “We have seen a substantial drop in demand
because nobody wants to get caught.”  Lower demand for dollars by importers after cutbacks in
fuel subsidies has buoyed the currency, according to the  Central
Bank of Nigeria . Fuel imports have been a large source of
pressure on Nigeria’s foreign-currency market and demand for
foreign currency to fund fuel imports has eased, central bank
Deputy Governor Tunde Lemo told a committee at a public hearing
on Feb. 7.  Fuel Importers  The government is probably paying more than 2 trillion
naira ($12.6 billion) to fuel importers to cover the difference
between market costs and state-regulated prices for last year,
said Farouk Lawan, chairman of a  House of Representatives 
committee investigating the discrepancies. That’s up from 384
billion naira in 2009 and represents almost half of last year’s
4.5 trillion-naira budget.  Oil company dollar dales “could happen in coming days,
providing renewed support for the naira,”  Leon Myburgh  and
Coura Fall, Africa strategists at Citigroup Inc. in
Johannesburg, wrote in an e-mailed note today. The oil industry
is the next major source of dollar supply to lenders, after the
central bank, which offers foreign currency to lenders at twice-
weekly auctions.  Nigeria  sold  $250 million at a foreign-currency auction
yesterday, the Abuja-based Central Bank of Nigeria said, without
mentioning the amount demanded by lenders. Dollars were sold for
between 156.50 naira and 156.92 naira each, with the marginal
rate, which is also used as the prevailing exchange rate, at
156.50 naira, unchanged from the previous sale on Feb. 8, it
said in an e-mailed statement.  The central bank would like to keep the exchange rate
stable while boosting foreign-currency reserves, Governor Lamido Sanusi said Jan. 31. The nation’s reserves reached $34.98
billion as of Feb. 9, the highest level since Sept. 12,
according the central bank data.  Ghana ’s cedi fell for a fourth day, retreating 0.2 percent
to 1.7171 per dollar, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Kay in Abuja at 
 ckay5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  