-- Netflix Said to Produce Second New Series to Challenge HBO
-- B y   C l i f f   E d w a r d s
-- 2012-02-14T22:05:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/netflix-said-to-produce-second-original-series-in-growing-challenge-to-hbo.html
Netflix Inc. (NFLX) , ratcheting up
competition with HBO, will produce 13 episodes of a new comedy
series, “Orange Is the New Black,” according to a person with
knowledge of the situation.  Netflix, the online film and TV service based in Los Gatos,
California, will have first rights to the series from “Weeds”
creator Jenji Kohan, said the person, who wasn’t authorized to
speak before a deal is announced. The show is based on the
memoir of a communications executive who served time for drug-
related crimes in a minimum-security women’s prison.  The comedy from Kohan is the second original series
bankrolled by Netflix, which is positioning itself as a rival to
 Time Warner Inc. (TWX) ’s  HBO . The company also backed the Kevin Spacey
drama “House of Cards,” which airs this year. Chief Executive
Officer Reed Hastings in December called HBO GO, the online
offshoot of the cable network, “the competitor we fear most.”  In an online posting, Netflix yesterday updated the
strategy statement it provides to job applicants to reflect
competition with HBO,  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  and others.  The slideshow suggests Netflix could grow as much as three
times faster than HBO by licensing more streaming content,
adding original programming and improving its website with
technology, such as integration with Facebook to let friends
know what others are watching.  Subscriber Counts  HBO finished 2011 with 93 million subscribers worldwide,
including its Cinemax channel, Time Warner Chief Financial
Officer  John Martin  said on a Feb. 8 conference call. Netflix
has more than 23 million streaming customers worldwide,
according to a Feb. 7 statement.  Netflix has also has picked up exclusive distribution
rights to series produced by others. The Norwegian drama
“Lilyhammer” is now available, and new episodes of “Arrested
Development” are scheduled for 2013.  By the middle of 2013, the company will have five originals
for streaming, according to  Ted Sarandos , chief content officer.  That is expected to include a deal with Gaumont
International Television for a 13-episode order of the horror
series “Hemlock Grove,” the person said. Announcements on
“Orange Is the New Black” and “Hemlock” may come as soon as
next week, the person said.  The Website Deadline.com late last year first reported
Netflix was in talks to secure both deals. “Weeds,” airing on
 CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s Showtime, is about a suburban mom who becomes a
marijuana dealer.  Netflix gained 4.1 percent to $123.15 at 2:11 p.m. New York
time. The stock had advanced 71 percent  this year  before today
after declining 61 percent in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cliff Edwards in  San Francisco  at 
 cedwards28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  