-- New York’s Smallest Planes Dwindle as Delta Hub Speeds Turboprop Era’s End
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/new-york-s-smallest-planes-dwindle-as-delta-hub-ousts-turboprops.html
New York’s smallest passenger planes
are poised to fade away as  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  builds a
domestic hub at LaGuardia Airport served chiefly by bigger jets.  US Airways Group Inc. (LCC) , the region’s largest operator of
aircraft like the 37-seat Dash-8 turboprop, is paring commuter
flights to upstate cities such as Albany and Syracuse while
pulling back in New York. Filling the gap is Delta, which is
focused on larger jets -- and no turboprops.  Once vital to carriers serving thinly populated markets,
airliners that carry only a few dozen fliers now are seen by
management and travelers in a harsher light: Too costly with
 fuel almost doubling  since 2007, too small for amenities such as
first-class cabins, and too loud and cramped.  “The jets are more comfortable, more reliable, cleaner,
quieter,” said Doug Pinckney, 47, who is president of
advertising firm Pinckney Hugo Group in Syracuse and flies to
LaGuardia every two to three weeks. “It’s a better airplane. I
can’t wait for the switch.”  Delta is using landing rights from a trade with US Airways
to  expand daily LaGuardia departures  by 75 percent, to 264, by
July. The world’s second-biggest airline will control half of
all LaGuardia flights by then, according to data compiled by
OAG, a unit of UBM Aviation in Bedfordshire,  England .  More than three-quarters of the flights will be on jets
with at least 70 seats. Planes in that category, such as larger
models of  Bombardier Inc. (BBD/B) ’s CRJ series, will have a business-
class cabin, a few rows of coach seats with extra legroom, and
Wi-Fi, said Gail Grimmett, Delta’s vice president for New York.  ‘Very Powerful’  “The ability to go to New York corporate travelers and say
‘We have all-jet service’ is very powerful,” said  Henry
Harteveldt , an airline analyst at  Atmosphere Research Group LLC 
in  San Francisco . “Delta’s offering will be quite compelling.”  Delta’s mainline jets on LaGuardia routes include  Airbus
SAS (EAD)  A319s and  Boeing Co. (BA)  MD-80s. US Airways’s plan to shrink at
LaGuardia by about two-thirds to 65 daily departures while
keeping jet shuttle flights to  Washington  and Boston means that
many of the Dash-8s in  New York  will go elsewhere, though a
spokesman, Todd Lehmacher, declined to give a number.  US Airways subsidiaries were flying 44 Dash-8s as of
December 2010, or almost half the carrier’s regional planes,
according to the latest annual report. The airline received
landing rights at Washington’s Reagan National from Delta in
exchange for more LaGuardia access, giving Tempe, Arizona-based
US Airways a chance to cut money-losing New York flights to and
from small cities.  Dropping Albany  “A few turboprops” will remain at LaGuardia to serve
cities such as Philadelphia, Lehmacher said. Nonstop routes to
Syracuse and Albany are among those getting the ax, based on
schedule data. Most of the planes being pulled from New York
will go to Washington or Charlotte,  North Carolina , Lehmacher
said.  “The Dash-8 has been a workhorse for us,” he said. “It’s
a remarkable plane and really allows us to serve a lot of
markets that we couldn’t profitably serve with other aircraft.”  Pinckney, the advertising executive, is looking forward to
larger planes after taking  US Airways  Dash-8s to LaGuardia to
meet clients. The planes originally were made by de Havilland,
now a part of Bombardier.  “Turboprops are very noisy,” Pinckney said. “It’s hard
to work on them and if you get stuck back in the corner you feel
really boxed in.”  U.S. airlines’ turboprop fleet has tumbled 67 percent to
416 planes since the start of the last decade, while 70-seat
jets surged 21-fold to 433, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. The smallest regional jets, those with 50 or fewer
seats, have declined 18 percent from a 2005 peak of 1,356.  ‘Largely Replaced’  “Turboprops have been waning since at least 2000 and were
largely replaced by the 50-seat jet,” said George Ferguson,
senior aerospace analyst for Bloomberg Industries. “Then 50-
seat jets grew until the increased cost of fuel stopped the
growth.”  The small-airliner fleet in New York includes a half-dozen
turboprops flown by  Pinnacle Airlines Corp. (PNCL) ’s Colgan Air unit
for  United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL) , which has a domestic and
international hub at Newark Liberty International Airport in  New
Jersey . At New York’s John F. Kennedy International Airport,  AMR
Corp (AAMRQ) .’s American Eagle flies 44- and 50-seat  Embraer SA (EMBR3)  jets,
and 37-seat Embraers at LaGuardia.  The decline of 50-seaters may quicken with AMR in
bankruptcy.  Michael Boyd , president of consultant Boyd Group
International Inc., predicts that Eagle will dump all its jets
with 50 or fewer seats, which make up 70 percent of the regional
unit’s 284-plane fleet. Eagle hasn’t detailed its plans.  Fuel, Age  “In the end, fuel consumption and aging aircraft will hurt
the 50-seater market,” Tim Hoyland, a partner in the aviation
practice at consultant  Oliver Wyman , said by e-mail.  Delta is culling half the fleet of its Comair regional unit
by year’s end, including 53 of its oldest planes such as 50-seat
Bombardier CRJs. The carrier already got rid of the last of its
34-seat Saab 340 turboprops at the end of 2011.  Using bigger jets at LaGuardia will let Delta fly longer
routes with more passengers, part of the airline’s strategy to
grow in New York after its 2007 bankruptcy exit. For Eric Mower,
chairman of advertising agency Eric Mower & Associates in
Syracuse, a Delta hub at LaGuardia will mean bypassing
connections he now makes in cities such as Atlanta.  “I can go to New York for meetings, and then fly Delta to
other cities,” said Mower, 67, whose firm’s clients include
 Georgia-Pacific LLC (GP) ’s Dixie products and Fisher-Price. “That’s
a big improvement.”  Delta Markets  Delta’s new nonstop flights from LaGuardia include business
markets such as Dallas, Cleveland and Milwaukee. The Atlanta-
based carrier is spending $140 million to renovate the majority
of the US Airways terminal at LaGuardia that it will control,
and link the facility with the adjacent one it already operates.  Some short-haul flights will be shifted to LaGuardia from
Delta’s international hub at Kennedy, making way for new
connections to airports such as Austin, Texas, that will feed
overseas routes, the airline’s Grimmett said.  Jeff Terhune, president of Warren & Panzer Engineers PC in
 Manhattan , is ready for bigger planes at LaGuardia. He commutes
weekly from Syracuse and expects to switch almost exclusively to
Delta after splitting flights between US Airways turboprops and
larger  JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  jets at more-distant Kennedy.  “Flying into LaGuardia is going to save me a couple hours
a week, every week, and to me that’s a big deal,” said Terhune,
45, who has been making the trip for 10 years. “With the
turboprops, they’re so cramped that you’re kind of stranded
there for the flight. You can’t work, you can’t really read, and
don’t even bother to pull out the laptop.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  