-- New Zealand January House Prices Rise 2.7% From Year Ago
-- B y   T r a c y   W i t h e r s
-- 2012-02-14T04:26:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/new-zealand-january-house-prices-rise-2-7-from-year-ago-1-.html
New Zealand  house prices rose at the
fastest annual pace in 17 months in January and property sales
increased, led by demand in Auckland, the nation’s largest city.  Prices (QVNZTOTY)  increased 2.7 percent from a year earlier, the
fastest pace since August 2010, according to an e-mailed report
from Quotable Value New Zealand, the government-owned valuation
agency. House sales in January rose 25 percent from a year
earlier, the Real Estate Institute said in a separate report.  In Auckland, home to a quarter of New Zealand’s 4.4 million
people, prices have gained 5 percent from the year-earlier month
to a record. Prices in smaller provincial cities have started to
decline, the agency said.  “The increase in values in many areas, particularly
central Auckland, can in part be attributed to a lack of
supply,” said Jonno Ingerson, research director at Quotable
Value. “When quality properties come up for sale in these
areas, they are in high demand, which is tending to push the
price up.”  Values have gained 1.1 percent in the three months through
January, the agency said. It doesn’t publish a monthly price
measure.  House sales  were the highest for a January since 2008, the
Real Estate Institute said in its e-mailed report. Sales fell
from December reflecting public holidays and fewer transactions
during the summer vacation period, it said.  “A shortage of listings is still apparent in many areas,”
said Helen O’Sullivan, chief executive officer of the institute.
“Prices remain stable despite the supply pressure, which
probably reflects the reluctance of buyers to over-extend
themselves while economic uncertainty continues.”  Prices fell 1.4 percent from December, according to the
institute’s monthly index. Prices rose 4.3 percent from a year
earlier.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tracy Withers in Wellington at 
 twithers@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at   sphang@bloomberg.net  