-- New York Seeks $2 Billion Federal Loan for Tappan Zee Bridge Replacement
-- B y   F r e e m a n   K l o p o t t
-- 2012-02-14T21:44:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/new-york-seeks-3-billion-federal-loan-to-construct-new-tappan-zee-bridge.html
New York (STONY1)  has applied for a $2 billion
federal loan for construction of a $5.2 billion replacement for
the Tappan Zee Bridge across the  Hudson River , state officials said.  Transportation Commissioner Joan McDonald said the state
sent a letter of interest to the  Federal Highway Administration 
and U.S. Department of Transportation, which administers a
program that provides credit assistance for “regionally
significant” infrastructure projects.  “They’re reviewing it now,” McDonald said in an interview
today after leaving a Cabinet meeting with Governor  Andrew Cuomo 
in  Albany .  McDonald said during the interview that the loan request
was for $3 billion, a figure later revised to $2 billion by her
spokesman, Bill Reynolds.  “The commissioner misspoke,” he said in telephone
interview.  Bloomberg News had asked Reynolds for a copy of the letter
in a Feb. 6 e-mail. It wasn’t provided.  Replacing the 56-year-old bridge, which carries 138,000
vehicles a day between Rockland and Westchester counties as part
of the  New York  State Thruway system, is a priority for Cuomo.
In his $132.5 billion budget, the governor didn’t identify a
specific funding source, though said the new bridge would be
financed with public money. The 54-year-old Democrat has
compared building a new Tappan Zee to the construction of the
Erie Canal in the 19th century.  Bridge Cost  The three-mile-long (4.8-kilometer) bridge is estimated to
cost $5.2 billion, with the price tag rising as high as $16
billion if public transportation projects are included. Loans
through the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation
Act, which McDonald said the state applied for in December, can
be used only to pay for one-third of a project’s total estimated
cost under current law. If New York is applying for the full
amount, that would make the value of the project $6 billion.  Legislators in  Washington  are currently considering whether
to increase the participation limit to about 49 percent of the
total cost.  “We’re following what happens in Congress very closely,”
McDonald said.  Fluor Corp. (FLR) , Bechtel Group Inc.,  Skanska AB (SKAB)  and  Grupo
Dragados SA (DRC)  are part of four teams selected to bid on the
project, the state said in a Feb. 7 statement.  Financing Plans  State officials have mostly been mum on financing plans. At
today’s cabinet meeting, Cuomo said only, “We’re working on a
financial plan.”  New York’s Transportation Department hired Jeffrey A.
Parker & Associates to develop a funding plan, according to a
December  announcement . The Philadelphia-based financing
consultant specializes in public infrastructure projects and
will help secure a federal loan, according to the firm’s
 website .  Tifia loans are generally used for projects costing more
than $500 million, last about 35 years and have an  interest rate 
tied to U.S. Treasuries. As of Feb. 10, Tifia’s interest rate
was 3.14 percent.  Nancy Singer, a U.S. transportation department spokeswoman,
said in an e-mail she couldn’t immediately comment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Freeman Klopott in Albany, New York, at 
 fklopott@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  