-- News of the World’s Thurlbeck Named Hackers to Save His Job
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n   a n d   A n d r e a   C a t h e r w o o d
-- 2012-02-14T09:03:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/news-of-the-world-s-thurlbeck-says-he-was-nearly-fired-in-2009.html
Neville Thurlbeck, the former chief
reporter at  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s News of the World, said he was minutes
away from being fired in July 2009 when his name was linked to
the phone-hacking scandal that would lead to the closure of the
U.K. tabloid two years later.  He’d been summoned to editor  Colin Myler ’s office where he
was told he would be offered a severance package in return for
his resignation. Instead, Thurlbeck turned in the names of the
guilty parties in the news room.  “I was three minutes away from the sack,” Thurlbeck said
in an interview with Bloomberg TV at his home yesterday. “When
I provided the evidence, I wasn’t sacked, I was kept on.” He
was dismissed and arrested in 2011.  Revelations that the News of the World hacked into phones
of celebrities, politicians and murdered schoolgirl  Milly Dowler 
led to the closing of the 168-year-old tabloid. The scandal also
resulted in separate legislative, judicial and police probes.
Five journalists at News Corp.’s Sun tabloid in  London  were
arrested on Feb. 11 as part of a related investigation into
bribes to officers and government officials.  Thurlbeck, who hasn’t been charged with a crime, was one of
the first people arrested in the phone-hacking probe last April.
Now, he said he won’t give the names of the guilty parties to
anyone, including the police.  ‘For Neville’  He said he regrets not going to Rebekah Brooks, the former
editor of News of the World, with his information at the time.
Thurlbeck said the newspaper could have been saved if News Corp.
had handled the allegations properly.  “If the matter had been dealt with then and the person or
people responsible had been rooted out, then the rogue reporter
theory would have been exploded,” Thurlbeck said, referring to
the company’s early stance that hacking had been done by a
single reporter in the newsroom. “With that explosion, there
would have been no media campaign to have another police
investigation.”  Thurlbeck’s name came up in an e-mail titled “for
Neville” containing the transcripts of voicemails hacked from
 Gordon Taylor , chief executive of the Professional Footballers’
Association. News Corp. ultimately paid 700,000 pounds ($1.1
million) to settle the case.  James Murdoch  London police, who are still contacting hundreds of
possible phone-hacking victims, have arrested more than 30
people in the three related probes, including the News of the
World’s former editors, Brooks and  Andy Coulson .  Thurlbeck has said he never participated in hacking or
authorized it, including the interception of Taylor’s
voicemails.  Daisy Dunlop , a spokeswoman for News Corp.’s News
International U.K. publishing unit, declined to comment.  James Murdoch, the former chairman of the News
International publishing unit and now deputy chief operating
officer of News Corp., has told lawmakers that he didn’t realize
until late 2010 that more than one reporter had engaged in
phone-hacking.  Documents released in December by the U.K. Parliament’s
Culture, Media and Sport Committee show that Myler wrote an e-
mail to  James Murdoch  in 2008 saying that voice-mail
interception went beyond a single reporter at the tabloid.
Murdoch said he didn’t read the full e-mail because it was a
Saturday and that he doesn’t recall any conversation with the
editor that weekend.  U.S. Lawmakers  In January, Myler started as editor-in-chief of the  New
York  Daily News. Three calls to Myler’s office and the Daily
News public relations department seeking comment weren’t
returned yesterday.  U.K. lawmakers are preparing a report about Murdoch’s role
in the scandal and may publish their findings in the coming
weeks.  Murdoch was given the deputy COO job in March 2011, with
News Corp. announcing plans to move the 39-year-old, who is News
Corp. Chairman  Rupert Murdoch ’s youngest son, to its
headquarters in New York. By July, the company’s News
International U.K. publishing unit faced phone-hacking
allegations. Both Murdochs appeared before U.K. lawmakers to
explain their role.  Bloomberg LP, the parent of Bloomberg News, competes with
News Corp. units in providing financial news and information.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  