-- NFL Should Drop TV Blackout Policy, Five U.S. Senators Tell FCC
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-02-14T16:50:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/nfl-should-drop-blackout-policy-for-games-not-sold-out-senators-tell-fcc.html
Five U.S. senators called on the
 National Football League  to stop barring television broadcasts
of games that lack a sellout crowd, as the league told
regulators the practice benefits fans.  “It is time for the NFL’s blackout policy to end,” the
lawmakers said in a letter to the Federal Communications
Commission yesterday. The agency is considering voiding a rule
that prevents cable and satellite companies from showing
professional sports events when the local TV station is blacked
out by contract.  The senators signing the letter, all Democrats, were
Richard Blumenthal of  Connecticut , Tom Harkin of Iowa, Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, Frank Lautenberg of  New Jersey  and Sherrod Brown of Ohio, where 6 of 8 home games by the  Cincinnati Bengals 
were blacked out last season.  “These blackouts are ruining the experience of rooting for
the home team and are unjustly hurting fans,” the senators
said. “That many of these stadiums were constructed or
remodeled using taxpayer dollars underscores the disservice done
to fans by blackouts.”  The NFL told the FCC that “just 16 games last year out of
256 regular season games” were blacked out. The rule, which
dates to 1975, is aimed at ensuring that enough fans attend
games.  The blackout rule “enables fans to enjoy programming made
available by the NFL and its broadcast partners on free, over-
the-air television while also promoting the excitement of a live
game with full stadiums,” the NFL said in a filing.  Broadcasters’ Filing  In the 1974 season just before the rule went into place, 58
percent of games were blacked out to home audiences, and that
percentage has dropped to 6 percent in the most recent season,
the league said.  “These numbers show that the league’s decades-long
commitment to promoting each week of the NFL as an event that
attracts wide fan support is working, both for fans in the
stadium and fans watching on television,” the NFL said. “The
current system is working and should not be altered.”  The National Association of Broadcasters told the FCC the
rule prevents cable and satellite providers from circumventing
leagues’ contracts with broadcasters. Eliminating the rule would
“hurt local broadcasters and their viewers and could accelerate
the migration of popular sports programs from free to pay TV,”
the Washington-based trade group said in its filing. Members
include  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s NBC,  News Corp. (NWSA) ’s Fox, the  Walt Disney
Co. (DIS) ’s ABC and  CBS Corp. (CBS) ’s CBS.  The NFL in December signed contract extensions through the
2022 season with CBS, Fox and NBC.  Fan Group  The FCC is considering a petition filed in November by
groups including the Sports Fans Coalition, a Washington-based
nonprofit advocacy group. The organization has accepted funds
from  Time Warner Cable Inc. (TWC)  and  Verizon Communications Inc. (VZ) ,
Brian Frederick, its executive director, said in an interview.  The Sports Fans Coalition in its filing yesterday said the
FCC should repeal the rule because it supports “blatantly anti-
fan, anti-consumer behavior by professional sports leagues.”  The filing was also signed by the Washington-based policy
groups  Public Knowledge  and Media Access Project; the National
Consumer League, which says it works for economic justice for
consumers; and the League of Fans, a sports-reform project
founded by consumer advocate Ralph Nader.  Neil Grace, an FCC spokesman, declined to comment. The
agency faces no deadline to act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  