-- Nicaragua Central Bank Head Quits Amid Row
-- B y   A d a m   W i l l i a m s   a n d   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-02-14T19:25:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/nicaragua-central-bank-head-quits-amid-row.html
Nicaragua ’s Central Bank President
Antenor Rosales quit amid differences with President Daniel Ortega over plans to use central bank reserves for the creation
of a regional bank for a Venezuelan-led bloc of Latin American
nations, known as Alba.  Ortega has proposed that Finance Minister Alberto Guevara
replace Rosales as head of the central bank, said Edwin Castro, the
chief legislator for the ruling Sandinista party, in a statement
on a government website today. Castro said the appointment must
be approved by lawmakers and didn’t say whether Guevara would
continue at the  Finance Ministry .  Castro said Rosales’s resignation was “normal government
procedure” and not a result of the disagreement with Ortega.  In a Feb. 4 meeting of Alba leaders in Caracas, Ortega
agreed to put 1 percent of Nicaragua’s international reserves,
or about $17 million, toward the Alba bank, according to a
statement on a government website. Rosales told reporters in
Managua on Feb. 6 that “no one can touch the international
reserves of Nicaragua.”  “The resignation of Rosales sends a bad message to the
people of Nicaragua,” opposition legislator Wilfredo
Navarro said in comments at the National Assembly broadcast on
TV Channel 100% Noticias. “He was defending the legality of the
country’s central bank institution. Withdrawing funds for an
unknown bank is a violation of the institution.”  Venezuela  is willing to transfer 1 percent of its reserves,
or about $300 million dollars, to a bank controlled by the Alba
bloc, Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez  said on state television
Feb. 4. The Alba members include Venezuela, Cuba, Nicaragua,
Ecuador and Bolivia.  Chavez, who says he wants to eliminate the “dictatorship”
of the  U.S. dollar , has promoted the expanded use of the sucre,
a virtual currency created by the Alba bloc in 2009, for
regional trade.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Adam Williams in  San Jose  at 
 awilliams111@bloomberg.net 
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Sanders at 
 psanders@bloomberg.net  