-- Normandy Hill Settles Suit Against Wachovia Capital Over Fraud Claims
-- B y   C h r i s   D o l m e t s c h
-- 2012-02-14T22:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/normandy-hill-master-fund-settles-suit-against-wachovia-capital.html
Wells Fargo & Co.’s  Wachovia Capital
Markets LLC settled investor claims that it failed to disclose
signs of fraud at Le-Nature’s Inc. as it arranged a $285 million
loan before the drink maker’s bankruptcy.  Normandy Hill Master Fund LP sued Wachovia Capital Markets
in New York state Supreme Court in June 2010, saying it relied
on false financial statements when it arranged the loan two
months before Le Nature’s went bankrupt in 2006. Terms of the
settlement weren’t disclosed in a court filing made public
today.  “The parties are pleased to be able to resolve their
differences through a negotiated settlement given the
complicated nature of the claims involved,” Aaron A. Mitchell,
an attorney representing Normandy Hill, said in a phone
interview.  Le-Nature’s, based in Latrobe,  Pennsylvania , made bottled
water, tea and other flavored drinks. Gregory J. Podlucky, the
company’s founder, and others were indicted in September 2009 on
charges they duped creditors out of more than $800 million by
overstating company revenue. Podlucky pleaded guilty in May 2011
and was sentenced to 20 years in prison in October.  There was no dismissal or settlement with the suit’s
remaining parties, which include Podlucky, Le-Nature’s former
executive vice president Robert Lynn and BDO Seidman LLP,
Mitchell said. Lynn was found guilty by a jury in July and
sentenced to 15 years in prison last month.  Elise Wilkinson, a spokeswoman for San Francisco-based
Wells Fargo, didn’t immediately respond to voice-mail and e-mail
messages seeking comment on the settlement.  The case is Normandy Hill Master Fund LP v. Wachovia
Capital Markets, 650548/2010, New York State  Supreme Court 
( Manhattan ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Dolmetsch in New York at 
 cdolmetsch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  