-- Obama Pledging Not to Demonize Wall Street
-- B y   H a n s   N i c h o l s   a n d   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n
-- 2012-02-15T17:09:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/obama-returns-to-nyc-for-first-wall-street-fundraiser-of-year.html
President Barack Obama returns to
New York on March 1 for his first campaign fundraiser with
investment bankers and hedge fund managers since asking Congress
in his 2013 budget to increase taxes on the wealthy.  The president’s hosts include Ralph Schlosstein, chief
executive officer at  Evercore Partners Inc. (EVR) , and his wife, Jane Hartley, co-founder of the economic and political advisory firm
Observatory Group LLC, who were assured last week by  Jim Messina , Obama’s campaign manager, that the president won’t
demonize  Wall Street  in his re-election pursuit.  The $35,800-per-person dinner at ABC Kitchen, the first of
the evening’s four fundraising events, is being hosted by many
of Obama’s top Wall Street donors, according to a person
familiar with the matter. Sponsors include Blair W. Effron,
partner and co-founder of Centerview Partners LLP; Marc Lasry,
managing partner and founder of Avenue Capital Group; Mark Gallogly, a managing principal of Centerbridge Partners; James Rubin, managing director of BC Partners; Robert Wolf, UBS AG’s
chairman for the Americas; and Antonio Weiss, global head of
 investment banking  at Lazard Ltd.  Other co-hosts aren’t associated with the financial
services industry, such as Tom Bernstein, president of Chelsea
Piers LP; and  Kevin Ryan , chief executive officer of Gilt Groupe
Inc.; and Sally Susman, an executive vice president of  Pfizer
Inc. (PFE)   New Taxes  Obama is also holding New York fundraisers outside Wall
Street’s financial circle. He is attending a reception that
night that is co-hosted by music executive  Russell Simmons ,
author Deepak Chopra and others.  In Obama’s fiscal 2013 budget, he called for $1.4 trillion
in new revenue over 10 years from Americans at the top of the
income scale, proposing higher taxes on wages and investments
and limiting itemized deductions. He would tax long-term  capital
gains  at 20 percent, up from the current 15 percent, for
individuals making more than $200,000 and families making more
than $250,000.  Obama’s last fundraiser with the financial services
industry was last Sept. 19. So far this election cycle, he
hasn’t been able to match the success he had four years ago in
getting money from Wall Street.  He raised $16 million from employees in the securities and
investment industry and their families for the 2008 election,
according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  This cycle’s numbers have been lower. JPMorgan Chase & Co.,
whose employees gave $23,494 to Obama in the last three months,
was the only financial institution among Obama’s top 10 list of
donors for the fourth quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Hans Nichols in Washington at 
 hnichols2@bloomberg.net ;
Jeffrey McCracken in  New York  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  