-- Obama Meets China Vice President Xi Jinping
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   D u n e   L a w r e n c e
-- 2012-02-15T00:13:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/obama-meeting-with-xi-may-set-tone-for-ties.html
President  Barack Obama  told Chinese
Vice President Xi Jinping that China’s growing influence brings
with it responsibility to work toward “balanced” trade and to
recognize the aspirations of all people for greater rights.  Obama met today with the man who is in line to become
China’s top leader next year as both nations seek to ease
tension over trade imbalances and China’s currency valuation.
The U.S. also is prodding China toward greater cooperation on
confronting the regime in Syria as well as thwarting Iran’s
pursuit of a nuclear weapon.  Vice President  Joe Biden  openly criticized some China
policies even as he welcomed Xi at a State Department luncheon
following meetings at the White House.  Addressing Xi before a guest list of lawmakers from both
parties and U.S. business executives, Biden said the U.S.-China
business relationship can only work “if the game is fair.”
Biden said the U.S. “strongly disagreed” with China’s veto
with Russia of a United Nations resolution against  Syria  on Feb.
4.  Xi, through an interpreter, said the U.S.-China
relationship will grow through dialogue and “not
protectionism.”
Obama, in his late morning meeting with Xi in the Oval Office of
the White House, said the U.S. welcomes “China’s peaceful
rise” and that he expected relations between the world’s two
biggest economies will continue on a “cooperative track.”  Increased Responsibility  “With expanding power and prosperity also comes increased
responsibility,” Obama said, citing need for a “balanced trade
flow” and “recognizing the aspirations and rights of all
people.”  Xi said he wants to “deepen mutual understanding” and
cooperation with the U.S.  His arrival in Washington follows Obama’s moves to reassert
U.S. power and influence in the Asia-Pacific region and as  China 
has emerged as one of the foreign policy issues in the U.S.
presidential election campaign.  Republican presidential hopefuls have ramped up criticism
of China on currency manipulation, intellectual property
protection and for the hurdles the state sets up for U.S.
businesses. They accuse Obama of not standing up enough to
China’s rising economic and military power.  Bipartisan Commission  The chairmen of the bipartisan Congressional-Executive
Commission on China today released a statement asking Xi to end
a crackdown on dissidents that began a year ago, release all
political prisoners and protect freedom of expression, religion
and assembly. The co-chairmen, Representative Chris Smith, a New
Jersey Republican, and Senator  Sherrod Brown , an Ohio Democrat,
also called on China to end currency manipulation and unfair
trade practices.  At today’s luncheon at the State Department, Biden told Xi
that China’s rise “did not occur in a vacuum” and was
cultivated by an international system that is “grounded in
rules” that all countries must follow.  During his meeting with Xi at the White House, Obama
repeated the U.S. stance that China’s currency remains
undervalued and that more progress must be made to let it rise,
according to an administration official who wasn’t authorized to
discuss the talks on the record.  China’s yuan hit 6.2884 per dollar on Feb. 10, the
strongest level since the country unified the official and
market exchange rates at the end of 1993. The yuan dropped 0.04
percent to close at 6.2996 per dollar in Shanghai, according to
the China Foreign Exchange Trade System, amid concern that
Europe’s slowing economies will cut purchases from China.  Trade Deficit  The U.S.-China  trade deficit  was $295 billion last year,
$23 billion wider than a year earlier, and the  imbalance  is a
main source of friction between the two countries.  Obama yesterday asked Congress in his next budget for $26
million and at least 50 people for a new panel to investigate
unfair  trade  practices by China and other countries.  Biden said he and Obama brought Syria up with Xi in their
meetings today. He also said the U.S. is concerned about
worsening human rights conditions in China. “We see our
advocacy for human rights as a fundamental aspect of our foreign
policy,” Biden said.  Xi said China has made “tremendous” strides on human
rights and that the government takes seriously people’s demands.  Lunch Guests  Guests at the lunch included  Henry Kissinger , the former
secretary of state and national security adviser to President
 Richard Nixon  when the U.S. opened relations with China in the
1970s; Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman and chief executive officer
of  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ; John Watson, chief executive
officer of  Chevron Corp. (CVX) ;  Robert Iger , chief executive officer
of  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ;  Jeffrey Katzenberg , chief executive officer
of  Dreamworks Animation (DWA) ; and  Muhtar Kent , chief executive
officer of  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   Xi’s agenda also includes meetings at the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce in Washington and in Iowa and California later this
week. Tomorrow he’ll meet with congressional leaders.  His trip may be most important for developing relationships
between Xi and Washington’s military and political leaders that
could shape  U.S.-China relations  for the next decade, said Obama
administration officials and foreign policy specialists.  “In Asia, generally, but in China certainly, relationships
matter, and high-level relationships particularly matter,” said
Daniel Russel, senior director for Asian affairs on the White
House National Security Council. “Building a relationship with
the official in China who seems likely destined to be a central
figure in the Chinese political system for years to come
obviously is important.”  Strategic Concerns  While the economic relationship is most prominently
featured in the domestic U.S. political debate, Obama’s other
concerns include China’s role in putting pressure on regimes in
 Iran ,  North Korea  and Syria.  As Xi visited the White House, Chinese Foreign Ministry
spokesman Liu Weimin said at a briefing in Beijing today that
China believes the most pressing task concerning the dispute
over  Iran’s nuclear program  is to resume talks as soon as
possible. Iran is willing to resume talks, Liu said, speaking
after Assistant Foreign Minister Ma Zhaoxu visited Iran.  Obama used an Asia-Pacific trip last November to send
signals that the U.S. was beefing up its military and diplomatic
posture in China’s backyard and helping other Asian nations band
together to make demands of China.  Russel and other White House aides said they didn’t expect
major breakthroughs on this trip, in part because Xi isn’t yet
China’s top official.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Talev in  Washington  at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net ;
Dune Lawrence in Washington at 
 dlawrence6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  