-- Romney: Fed Bailout Harmed, Not Helped, Auto Industry
-- B y   J e f f   B l i s s   a n d   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-02-14T19:47:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/obama-bailout-hurt-auto-industry-more-than-helped-romney-says.html
President  Barack Obama  used the
bailout of U.S. automakers to enrich union supporters, marring
the industry’s recovery, Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  said today in an  op-ed column  in the  Detroit News .  As part of Obama’s plan to save Chrysler Group LLC, the
United Auto Workers’ trust fund received a 55 percent stake in
the Auburn Hills, Michigan-based company while Chrysler’s
secured creditors got “short shrift,” he wrote.  Romney, whose father, George, was president of American
Motors Corp., also said the Obama administration should sell
 government-owned shares  of  General Motors Co. (GM)  and turn the
profit over to taxpayers.  “The president tells us that without his intervention
things in Detroit would be worse,” Romney wrote. “I believe
that without his intervention things there would be better.”  Obama has made the taxpayer bailout of Detroit-based
General Motors and Chrysler, which is majority-owned by  Fiat
SpA (F) , a theme in his re-election campaign. Romney is vying for
support in Michigan’s presidential primary on Feb. 28, seeking
to fend off a resurgent challenge from  Rick Santorum  in the
Republican race.  In his article, Romney described  Steven Rattner , who headed
the government’s auto task force, as a “politically connected
and ethically challenged Obama-campaign contributor” whose role
in managing the bailout was part of “crony capitalism on a
grand scale.”  ‘Hallucination’  Rattner, in an interview, called the column “one of the
most remarkable pieces of retroactive hallucination that I’ve
seen in a while.” He said that without the action Romney
decried, the car companies would have died.  Rattner said the “managed bankruptcy” Romney advocated
instead of a government rescue package wouldn’t have been
possible, and he contended that the Obama administration
demanded more concessions than George W. Bush’s Republican
administration had sought when the first round of bailout loans
for automakers was approved in late 2008.  “We asked for more sacrifice from the stakeholders than
the  Bush administration  had asked,” said Rattner, who is now
with Willett Advisors LLC.  Michigan  Democrats said Romney’s approach would have
worsened the state’s economic downturn.  ‘No Private Entity’  “The Romney path would have meant the end of one and
perhaps two of our major industries,” U.S. Representative
 Sander Levin  told reporters on a conference call sponsored by
the Democratic National Committee. “He can’t have it both ways.
There was no private entity to provide the financing.”  Romney, who was born in Michigan, is “pandering to a
national audience,” said former Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm.  “He comes from Michigan and he knows better,” she told
reporters. “The bailout worked.”  Automakers are increasing production after U.S.  light-
vehicle sales  rose at least 10 percent for two straight years
for the first time since 1984. Last month, GM announced it had
regained the title as the top-selling global automaker, which it
lost to  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  as it slid into bankruptcy.  Chrysler Sales Surge  Chrysler’s U.S. sales increase of 44 percent last month
surpassed eight analysts’ average estimate for a 32 percent
gain. The company’s free  cash flow  was $1.9 billion last year,
Chrysler said in a statement earlier this month. The company
forecast $1 billion free cash flow for 2012.  The column by the former Massachusetts governor was
published a day after the release of two surveys showing him
running behind Santorum, a former Pennsylvania senator, in the
Michigan primary.  An automated telephone poll of 404 Republican primary
voters taken Feb. 10-12 by Public Policy Polling shows Santorum
ahead of Romney, 39 percent to 24 percent. The survey has a
margin of error of plus or minus 4.9 percentage points.  A telephone  poll  by American Research Group, taken among
600 likely Republican primary voters Feb. 11-12, has Santorum
leading Romney, 33 percent to 27 percent. The survey’s margin of
error is plus or minus four percentage points.  Arizona , where Romney campaigned yesterday, also holds a
primary on Feb. 28.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net ;
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  