-- Obama Allies Seek to Reframe Birth-Control Debate for Voters
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   T a l e v   a n d   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-02-14T20:38:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/obama-allies-seek-to-reframe-birth-control-debate-for-voters.html
The debate over President Barack Obama’s policy on contraceptive coverage is likely to persist,
with the two sides struggling to frame the issue as either one
over access to  birth control  or of religious freedom.  A compromise Obama offered last week that would force
health insurers, and not religious-affiliated charities, to pay
for contraceptives for employees of those institutions may have
moved him off the defensive. Still, Republicans said it will be
an election issue and vowed to push for a measure in Congress to
repeal the policy, a vote that could come as early as this week.  Whoever is more successful at defining the dispute is
likely to prevail with the electorate on the policy, pollsters
and political strategists say.  “How it’s framed is very important,” said  Terry Madonna ,
a political science professor and director of the Franklin &
Marshall College poll in Lancaster,  Pennsylvania . Access to
contraception and equal treatment of women in workplace-benefit
plans both resonate with college-educated women, he said.  Obama and supporters of his policy say women deserve a way
to obtain contraceptive services free of charge and that the
president’s revision of the rule should satisfy religious-
affiliated institutions because it allows them to avoid paying
directly for birth control.  Critics, including Republican presidential candidates and
congressional leaders, as well as groups such as the United
States Conference of Catholic Bishops, say the policy encroaches
on the prerogatives of religious entities.  Americans Divided  Among Americans aware of the issue, opinion is  evenly
divided  even with sharp differences based on faith, gender and
party: 48 percent support an exemption for religious-affiliated
institutions, while 44 percent say they should be required to
cover contraceptives, according to a poll conducted by the Pew
Research Center Feb. 8-12. Obama announced the changes to his
policy halfway through the poll, on Feb. 10, though the survey
found little change in responses afterward.  Catholics, white evangelicals, Republicans and men,
especially those age 50 and older, were more likely to back an
exemption. Women, especially those under age 50, people with no
religious affiliation, and Democrats were more likely to oppose
an exception. The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus
3.5 percentage points among those who have heard about the
federal rule.  Government Overreach  Senator  Roy Blunt , a Missouri Republican, said the policy
will have traction in the election campaign because it’s an
example of the administration overreaching on health care and
interfering with religious freedom. Blunt is proposing that
those offering health plans be allowed to decline to provide
services that are contrary to their religious beliefs.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, said
today he will allow a vote on a repeal of the contraceptives-
coverage rule during debate on a pending highway measure,
although he said Democrats will likely muster the votes to
defeat it by tabling it.  One Senate Democratic leader said Blunt’s proposal is so
expansive that any employer could utilize it to reject a host of
 health services  on moral grounds.  “This amendment will allow any employer -- a barber, a
banker, a multinational corporation -- to be given an exemption
to not cover contraception or any essential preventive benefit
for any religious or moral reason,” said Senator  Patty Murray 
of Washington.  Radio Ads  NARAL Pro-Choice America yesterday began airing radio ads
in the battleground states of  Colorado ,  Florida ,  Virginia  and
 Wisconsin , touting the policy as an example of Obama’s
commitment to women. They say Republican lawmakers and
presidential candidates who oppose the policy are extremists who
want to limit access to birth control.  The Obama campaign team mentioned the contraception policy
on a “Truth Team” website it introduced yesterday as an online
resource to respond to criticisms of the president’s record
“and hold the eventual Republican nominee accountable.”  At the same time, a group of 44 conservative leaders,
including Tony Perkins, president of the Family Research
Council, and Jenny Beth Martin, co-founder of the Tea Party
Patriots, issued individual statements of opposition in a
“ united front ” to fight the policy.  John Feehery , a Republican strategist in  Washington , said
the controversy boosts Republican criticism that the 2010
health-care overhaul backed by Obama was an over-extension of
government. “This helps chip away at that accomplishment,”
Feehery said.  Bishops Not Satisfied  That message is delivered most effectively when religious
groups such as the Catholic Church lead the campaign against the
rule, he said. “Having them as the messenger is important to
Republicans.”  The Conference of Catholic Bishops said in a blog posting
yesterday on its website that the group isn’t satisfied with
Obama’s compromise and supports legislative efforts to repeal
the policy. The group added that “the bishops did not pick this
fight in an election year.”  Beth Shipp, NARAL’s political director, said female voters
should be worried that Republicans, including presidential
candidates  Mitt Romney  and  Rick Santorum , want to take away
their access to birth control.  “It’s not about religious freedom and liberty -- it never
has been,” Shipp said. “It was about getting at the Affordable
Care Act and trying to gut it piece by piece and about not
wanting women to have access to contraception.”  ‘An Important Victory’  In the NARAL ad, a pharmacist tells a woman her birth
control pills are free because of Obama. A narrator says, “we
scored an important victory” for women “of all faiths, no
matter where they work” and warns that “extremists” in
Congress want to undo the benefit.  By announcing that insurers and not the religious employers
will be required to offer and pay for the coverage, the
president said he hoped to ease concerns of religious groups
while keeping his commitment to broadly make contraceptives
available to women.  “I understand some folks in Washington may want to treat
this as another political wedge issue, but it shouldn’t be,”
Obama said. “I certainly never saw it that way.”  Campaign Issue  An Obama campaign official who spoke on condition of
anonymity said the campaign will continue to press the
contraception decision as an accomplishment between now and
November, through e-mails, at events and in outreach to women.  Out-of-pocket contraception costs do reduce birth-control
use among women in financial difficulty even though it is more
expensive to raise children, said  Lawrence Finer , director of
domestic research for the Guttmacher Institute, a nonprofit
group that researches reproductive-health issues.  “In some instances, costs can be a barrier,” Finer said.
“The co-pay on birth control pills is what needs to be paid
now.”  To save money, one out of eight financially struggling
women on birth control sometimes don’t use contraception,
according to a 2009 survey of women with  household income  below
$75,000 conducted by Guttmacher. Among women on the pill, a
quarter of financially struggling ones reported inconsistent use
to save money, the  survey  found.  Battleground States  Catholics comprise about one in four U.S. voters according
to exit polls. Yet Madonna of Franklin & Marshall College, said
that of a dozen or so battleground states that include
Pennsylvania, many female swing voters “are college-educated
women who tend to be more liberal on social issues and more
fiscally conservative.”  “You find a fair number of college-educated women who, I
think, will side with the president on this,” he said.
“Particularly the way it was framed as, ‘we compromised,’
making the point it’s still available to women without making
the church pay for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Margaret Talev  in Washington at 
 mtalev@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  