-- Lockheed Protests $638 Million U.S. Navy Award to Northrop
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   I v o r y
-- 2012-02-14T20:08:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/lockheed-protests-638-million-u-s-navy-award-to-northrop.html
Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  is protesting
a $638 million contract awarded to  Northrop Grumman Corp. (NOC)  for
upgrading Navy computer networks.  The contract was awarded on Feb. 1. It will modernize
systems aboard ships, according to a Defense Department website.  Lockheed filed the protest yesterday with the Government
Accountability Office, Ralph White, the agency’s managing
associate general counsel for procurement law, said in a phone
interview.  “We protest contract awards only when we believe flaws in
the evaluation process preclude consideration of the best
solution for the customer, as is the case with our proposal,”
Keith Little, a Lockheed spokesman, said in an e-mailed
statement.  He declined to comment on the reasons behind the protest
because the Bethesda, Maryland-based company considers that
information sensitive to the competition.  The Navy in March 2010 awarded contracts to both Lockheed
and Northrop for the design and development of the Consolidated
Afloat Networks and Enterprise Services program, also known as
CANES, said Steven Davis, a Navy spokesman.  The Feb. 1 award, valued at $37 million and expected to
grow to $638 million, is for the initial production phase. The
Navy will hold another competition next year for full production
of the system.  “Northrop Grumman is confident that its CANES proposal
provides the Navy a best-value CANES solution and we stand ready
to quickly help the Navy get this critical system to the
warfighters,” said  Randy Belote , a spokesman for the  Falls
Church , Virginia-based company. “We are disappointed that a
protest was filed and have no further comment at this time.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Ivory in Washington at 
 divory@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  