-- Lockhart Says Slow Jobs Gains Warrant Low Fed Rate Through 2014
-- B y   S t e v e   M a t t h e w s
-- 2012-02-14T22:40:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/lockhart-says-slow-jobs-gains-warrant-low-fed-rate-through-2014.html
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
President  Dennis Lockhart  said slow improvement in the labor
market warrants keeping the Fed’s target  interest rate  near zero
through 2014, even as the economy shows signs of strengthening.  “I expect the economy to return to a better growth
trajectory than what we saw in 2011,” Lockhart said today in a
speech in Sarasota,  Florida . “But I also foresee a slow and
arduous return to full capacity, including full use of the
nation’s human capital,” which “will simply take time.”  Lockhart, who votes on monetary policy this year, supported
the Federal Open Market Committee’s pledge on Jan. 25 to keep
the  target interest rate  exceptionally low at least through late
2014. The Fed also for the first time released policy makers’
forecasts for the timing of the first increase in the benchmark
interest rate. The predictions ranged from this year to 2016.  Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in a press conference after
the FOMC meeting that the Fed is considering buying more bonds.
The central bank has engaged in two rounds of asset purchases
totaling $2.3 trillion to reduce unemployment. It also cut the
main interest rate close to zero in December 2008.  “The recent economic news has been encouraging, but in my
view we haven’t seen enough sustained improvement to be sure it
will last,” Lockhart said in the text of a speech to the Global
Interdependence Center at New College of Florida. “The current
policy stance is appropriate for an outlook of steady, moderate
growth with gradual employment gains.”  Subject to Revision  The Atlanta Fed leader said the 2014 pledge was subject to
revision if the economic outlook changes. He also said the
accommodative policy doesn’t compromise the Fed’s new explicit
goal of holding inflation at 2 percent.  “At the moment, I favor a policy-making posture I’d call
vigilant restraint,” Lockhart said. “I am prepared to be
somewhat patient and watch how the situation develops.”  Lockhart said he is “pretty confident” in 2.5 percent to
3 percent growth for 2012 in the absence of shocks, which last
year included higher  oil prices , Japanese auto-supply
disruptions and the European debt crisis.  Since the meeting, some economic reports have exceeded
expectations, including a drop in the U.S. unemployment rate to
8.3 percent, the lowest since February 2009. Payrolls rose last
month by 243,000, exceeding the most optimistic forecast in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Among the restraints on faster growth has been a sharp
decline in housing prices since 2006, which has hurt consumption
as people have rebuilt savings and limited funds for startup
businesses, Lockhart said. In addition, “stricter bank lending
standards” have countered the use of debt to finance growth, he
said.  Jobless Rate  Fed policy makers forecast an unemployment rate of 8.2
percent to 8.5 percent at the end of 2012, and 7.4 percent to
8.1 percent late next year.  Sales at U.S. retailers rose less than forecast in January,
reflecting an unexpected drop in purchases of automobiles. The
0.4 percent gain reported by the Commerce Department today in
 Washington  was half the 0.8 percent rise median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Purchases excluding car dealers climbed 0.7 percent, more
than projected and the biggest gain since March.  Lockhart, 65, a former Georgetown University professor, has
led the Atlanta Fed since 2007. Fed presidents rotate voting on
monetary policy, with Lockhart voting this year. The Atlanta Fed
district includes  Alabama , Florida,  Georgia , and portions of
 Louisiana ,  Mississippi , and  Tennessee .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steve Matthews in Atlanta at 
 smatthews@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  