-- Oil Declines on U.S. Retail Sales, Expected Gain in Inventories
-- B y   M o m i n g   Z h o u
-- 2012-02-14T21:47:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/oil-rises-to-three-week-high-on-german-confidence-u-s-retail-sales-gain.html
Oil fell in  New York  as sales at
U.S. retailers climbed less than expected and on speculation
that oil  supplies  advanced last week amid weak demand.  Futures declined as the Commerce Department reported that
retail sales increased 0.4 percent in January, less than the 0.8
percent gain that was the median forecast of economists surveyed
by Bloomberg News. Inventories rose 1.6 million barrels to 340.8
million last week, according to a Bloomberg survey. Demand is at
a 12-year low.  “Retail sales grew but the pace is less than
expectations,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research for IAF
Advisors in Houston. “Inventories have been rising and demand
is simply horrific. We are trading around the $100 level.”  Oil for March delivery dropped 17 cents to settle at
$100.74 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange . It reached
$101.84 earlier, the highest price since Jan. 19. Crude has
gained 1.9 percent this year.  Prices were little changed after the  American Petroleum
Institute  reported oil inventories rose 2.9 million barrels to
337.8 million last week. The March contract slid 4 cents to
$100.87 a barrel at 4:37 p.m. in electronic trading.  Brent oil for March settlement rose 23 cents to $118.16 a
barrel on the ICE Futures  Europe  exchange. The March contract
expires today. Brent for April fell 4 cent to $117.35.  Retail sales excluding vehicles in January climbed 0.7
percent, the Commerce Department said, more than projected in a
survey of economists by Bloomberg News.  Total U.S.  petroleum consumption  dropped to 17.6 million
barrels a day in the week ended Feb. 3, the lowest level since
May 1999, the Energy Department reported on Feb. 8. Inventories
rose to 339.2 million barrels, the highest level since Sept. 23.  Gasoline Demand  U.S. gasoline demand slipped 3.1 percent last week to 8.01
million barrels a day,  MasterCard Inc. (MA)  said in its SpendingPulse
report.  “The fundamentals are still mildly bearish with high
inventories,” said  Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy
& Economic Research in Winchester, Massachusetts.  The Bloomberg survey also showed gasoline inventories rose
775,000 barrels, or 0.3 percent, to 232.6 million last week.
 Distillate (DOEASDIS)  fuels, which include heating oil and diesel, fell 1.1
million barrels to 145.5 million. Refineries operated at a rate
of 82.8 percent, unchanged from the previous week, the survey
showed.  Euro Weakens  Prices also fell as the euro weakened against the dollar
after European finance ministers canceled a meeting and as
Moody’s Investors Service cut the debt ratings of six European
countries.  The European Union will hold a teleconference rather than a
meeting to prod  Greece  to do more to clinch an aid package worth
130 billion euros ($170 billion).  Moody’s reduced the debt ratings of countries including
Italy, Spain and  Portugal  and said it may strip  France  and the
U.K. of their top Aaa ratings, citing Europe’s debt crisis.  The euro dropped as much as 0.8 percent against the dollar.
A stronger dollar and weaker euro reduce oil’s appeal as an
investment alternative. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and the
 Dow Jones Industrial Average  declined.  “We are back trading along the dollar and equities,” said
Rich Ilczyszyn, chief market strategist and founder of
Iitrader.com in  Chicago .  Earlier Gains  Oil rose earlier as German investor confidence surged to a
10-month high in February and concern increased that supply from
 Iran  would be disrupted. The ZEW Center for European Economic
Research in Mannheim said its index of investor and analyst
expectations rose to 5.4 in February, the highest level since
April.  Iran’s governor to the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries, Mohammad Ali Khatibi, said today that the world won’t
be able to compensate for a loss of Iranian production,
according to the country’s state-run Mehr news agency.  “The market is worried that the situation in Iran will
escalate and something serious will happen,” said Phillip
Streible, a Chicago-based commodities broker at RJO Futures.  Yesterday’s system crash that ended electronic trading was
unexplained by  CME Group Inc. (CME) , parent of the Nymex. CME declined
to disclose what caused the failure of the Globex crude and
products markets, which ended electronic trading of futures and
options about a half-hour before settlement.  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex today was
802,268 shares at 4:38 p.m.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Moming Zhou in New York at 
 Mzhou29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  