-- Olam Quarterly Net Falls on One-Time Item, Demand
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   Y u n
-- 2012-02-16T12:39:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/olam-quarterly-net-falls-12-on-weak-cotton-timber-demand-1-.html
(Corrects reason for profit decline in headline and first
paragraph, adds one-time item in third paragraph of story
published on Feb. 15.)  Olam International Ltd. (OLAM) , the
commodity supplier partly owned by  Singapore ’s Temasek Holdings
Pte, said second-quarter profit fell 12 percent after it didn’t
repeat a one-time gain and as demand wanes for cotton and timber
products.  Net income slid to S$128.5 million ($102 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31 from S$145.4 million a year earlier,
Singapore-based Olam said yesterday. Profit was higher than the
S$114.3 million average estimate of three analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg. Sales rose 11 percent to S$4.5 billion.  Profit rose 15 percent after excluding a one-time gain of
S$33.6 million in the second quarter ended Dec. 31, 2010, from
purchasing a dairy producer in Uruguay, the company said.  Earnings were dragged down by industrial raw materials,
which saw net contribution drop 29 percent in the quarter to
S$35.1 million from a year earlier. The food staples and
packaged food segment expanded 19 percent in volume and 12
percent in revenue, driven by rice and grain, Olam said.  “Olam’s earnings are more resilient than peers, thanks to
its recession-proof portfolio,” Lee Wen Ching, a Singapore-
based analyst at CIMB Research Pte., wrote in a note today.
“Growth from edibles offset weakness in the economically
sensitive industrial raw materials segment” which includes
cotton, wool, rubber, timber and fertilizer.  Olam suffered a decline in cotton demand in 2011 as slowing
economic growth eroded consumption. Rivals  Glencore
International Plc (805)  and  Noble Group Ltd. (NOBL)  said losses in their
cotton businesses eroded profit.  “This was an unusual period,” Olam Chief Executive
Officer Sunny Verghese said in a briefing in Singapore. “Most
of the sector has underperformed.”  Strong Headwinds  The cotton and wood products businesses continue to face
strong headwinds, Olam said in the earnings statement.  First-half profit fell 7.1 percent to S$162.7 million from
a year earlier, according to the statement. Sales gained 19
percent to S$7.7 billion.  Olam shares fell 1.2 percent to S$2.58 as of 12:53 p.m. in
Singapore, compared with the 0.8 percent gain in the  Straits
Times Index. (FSSTI)   Global cotton demand will be 2.6 percent less than forecast
in November as economic growth prospects dim and polyester gains
market share, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said Dec. 9.  Glencore, the world’s biggest publicly traded commodities
supplier, posted an $8 million loss in its agricultural business
because “extreme volatility” in the cotton market made hedging
ineffective, it said on Feb. 7. Hong Kong-based Noble also
attributed the loss in its third quarter to its cotton business
and carbon-credit trading.  Olam’s cotton business “has outperformed most players in
the industry,” Verghese said. “Risk is now behind us” as
cotton prices stabilize and fewer customers default.  In the food segment, the dairy and sugar businesses are
expected to underperform, Olam said.  Olam expects to see a “softening” in the sugar market in
the second half, Verghese said. “Trading conditions would
probably be a little more volatile than what we’ve seen in the
first half.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Yun in  Hong Kong  at 
 myun11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  