-- Monsanto to Appeal French Ruling on Farmer’s Pesticide Poisoning
-- B y   R u d y   R u i t e n b e r g
-- 2012-02-14T17:45:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/monsanto-to-appeal-french-ruling-on-farmer-s-pesticide-poisoning.html
Monsanto Co. (MON) , the world’s biggest
seed company, will appeal a French civil court ruling that found
it’s responsible for the poisoning of a farmer who inhaled a
pesticide made by the company.  The Tribunal de Grande Instance in Lyon yesterday said
Monsanto carried blame for the poisoning of Paul Francois, his
lawyer Francois Lafforgue said by phone today. Francois suffered
neurological problems after inhaling the St. Louis-based
company’s Lasso in an accident in 2004, the lawyer said.  Monsanto is “disappointed” with the decision and plans to
appeal, spokesman Mark Buckingham said in an e-mailed reply to
questions. The ruling is the first of its kind in  France ,
according to Lafforgue.  “Our analysis of this case is that there is no
demonstration of the causal link between Lasso and the symptoms
reported by Mr. Francois,” Buckingham said. “We do not agree
any injury was accidentally caused, nor did the company
intentionally permit injury.”  The court has asked for an expert assessment of damages to
be paid to Francois for medical costs, economic consequences and
his suffering, according to Lafforgue. It found that Monsanto
gave insufficient safety and usage instructions on the weed
killer’s packaging, he said.  “Monsanto products comply with safety standards in place
at the time of marketing and are supported by guidance for their
responsible and safe use,” Buckingham said. “Lasso was clearly
labeled to contain monochlorobenzene, a common solvent. Monsanto
would not have used monochlorobenzene as a solvent in Lasso if
it had not met all regulatory requirements.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rudy Ruitenberg in Paris at 
 rruitenberg@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Carpenter at 
 ccarpenter2@bloomberg.net  