-- Monti Won’t Back Rome Bid for 2020 Olympic Games as Italy Reduces Spending
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o
-- 2012-02-14T17:35:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/monti-won-t-back-rome-bid-for-2020-olympic-games-as-italy-reduces-spending.html
Italian Prime Minister  Mario Monti 
said his government won’t back a bid by the city of Rome to host
the 2020 summer Olympics because supporting the candidacy would
be a drain on public resources.  “We don’t think it would be consistent to commit Italy”
to financially guarantee the bid, which “could put at risk the
money of taxpayers,” Monti said after a Cabinet meeting in Rome
today, the deadline for cities to deliver their bid proposals.  Without the government’s financial backing, Rome can’t
proceed with its bid to host the games, which were last staged
in the Italian capital in 1960. The Olympics would cost Italy
about 10 billion euros ($13 billion), almost all of which would
be paid from state funds, Green Party leader Angelo Bonelli told
Ansa newswire today.  Monti’s government passed 20 billion euros in budget cuts
and tax increases in December to try to eliminate the  budget
deficit  in 2013 and cut debt to shield Italy from the fallout
from the region’s debt crisis. Moody’s Investors Service lowered
the nation’s credit rating yesterday, after downgrades by
Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings last month. Monti said it
wouldn’t be “responsible” to back the games after having asked
Italians to make sacrifices.  “It’s a shame for the Olympic movement that Rome is
pulling out of the 2020 race as the games need strong candidate
cities,” said Lucien Boyer, chief executive officer of Havas
Sports & Entertainment, a communications company that
advised Annecy,  France  on its failed bid for the 2018 winter
games. “It is a reflection of both the challenging state of the
European economy and the changing landscape in major sports
bidding.”  Spanish ‘Dream’  The Spanish government, which is also trying to clean up
its finances, agreed to back  Madrid ’s bid for the games, which
the city presented today. Doha and  Tokyo  submitted bids this
week, while Istanbul and Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, had
also planned offers to host the Olympics.  “Spending cuts are important, but having a dream, a
perspective for the future of the country is important as
well,” Gianni Petrucci, president of the Italian National
Olympic Committee, told SKY TG24 television. “Spain took a
different decision: They want to have a dream.”  Madrid was a finalist for the 2016 Games before losing out
to  Rio de Janeiro  in the final selection in October 2009.  The  International Olympic Committee  will vote on the site
of the 2020 Olympics in  Buenos Aires  in September of next year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Andrew Davis  at 
 abdavis@bloomberg.net  