-- Osborne Pressured to Deliver Growth as Moody’s U.K. Outlook Turns Negative
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-02-14T07:54:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/moody-s-puts-pressure-on-osborne-as-u-k-s-rating-outlook-turns-negative.html
Moody’s Investors Service said
Britain risks losing its top-level credit rating if the economy
deteriorates, piling pressure on Chancellor of the Exchequer
 George Osborne , who said sticking to his budget plan is the only
way to prevent a downgrade.  The “primary” driver behind the change to a “negative
outlook” for Britain’s Aaa rated debt is a “weaker
macroeconomic environment,” Moody’s said in a statement in
 London  late yesterday. Shocks from the euro area’s sovereign
debt crisis are also weighing on the U.K., it said.  “The U.K.’s outstanding debt places it amongst the most
heavily indebted of its Aaa rated peers, alongside the  United
States  and  France , whose Aaa ratings also carry a negative
outlook,” the rating company said.  The warning gave Osborne’s Labour Party opponents in
Parliament ammunition to attack him for the government’s
austerity measures, which they say risk tipping the U.K. into
its second recession in less than three years. Osborne seized on
comments from Moody’s that “reduced political commitment to
fiscal consolidation” would turn today’s warning into a
downgrade.  “This is proof that, in the current global situation,
Britain cannot waver from dealing with its debts,” Osborne said
in an e-mailed statement released by the Treasury. “This is a
reality check.”  Pound Falls  The pound fell 0.3 percent to $1.5725 at 7:41 a.m. in
London.  Ed Balls , Labour’s Treasury spokesman, said the Moody’s
decision showed the danger of setting policy to satisfy ratings
companies.  “They’re a weather vane for the direction of thinking,”
Balls told BBC Radio 4’s “Today” show. “I fear the world is
making the 1930s mistake, and the  ratings agencies  are partners
in this. Today is the first evidence that even the ratings
agencies are waking up.”  Osborne says the U.K.’s top credit ratings and low bond
yields vindicate his budget cuts, which will see more than
700,000 public-sector jobs axed in the tightest fiscal squeeze
since World War II, and set Britain apart from debt-laden euro-
region nations including France that have had their credit
ratings lowered. His plan seeks to erase the bulk of a  budget
deficit  equal to 9 percent of gross domestic product.  Budget Cuts  Moody’s said additional budget cuts announced in November
have reduced the scope for further action, making it harder for
the government to meet its goal of eliminating the structural
deficit by 2017, a cornerstone of Osborne’s policy goals, if the
U.K. is hit by “further abrupt economic or fiscal
deterioration.”  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
forecasts the U.K. economy will shrink 0.1 percent this year and
grow 2.3 percent in 2013, compared with projections in October
for growth of 0.8 percent and 2.6 percent.  Moody’s also said it is less optimistic than Osborne about
his plans to start reducing debt after 2015, when it’s due to
peak at 95 percent of GDP. The company said debt “will peak
later and at a higher level.”  Moody’s also cut the debt ratings of six European countries
including  Italy ,  Spain  and  Portugal  yesterday. Spain was
downgraded to A3 from A1 with a negative outlook, Italy was
downgraded to A3 from A2 with a negative outlook and Portugal
was downgraded to Ba3 from Ba2 with a negative outlook, Moody’s
said. It also cut the ratings of Slovakia, Slovenia and Malta.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  