-- Los Angeles Gasoline Rises to Three-Month High on Planned Work
-- B y   L y n n   D o a n
-- 2012-02-14T23:49:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/los-angeles-gasoline-rises-to-three-month-high-on-planned-work.html
California-blend gasoline in  Los
Angeles  jumped to the highest level against futures in more than
three months on speculation that work at three oil refineries in
the state will tighten supplies in the market.  Carbob in  Los Angeles (MOGLDB85)  increased 11 cents, the largest rise
since Aug. 26, to a premium of 30.5 cents a gallon against
gasoline futures traded on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  at
4:40 p.m. East Coast time, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. That’s the widest spread for the fuel since Nov. 4.  San Antonio-based  Tesoro Corp. (TSO)  may take a few more weeks
than originally scheduled to finish maintenance at the  Martinez (TEMTCRUD) 
refinery in Northern California, two people familiar with the
plant’s operations said yesterday.  BP Plc (BP/) , based in  London , will
shut several units at the  Carson (BPCRCRUD)  refinery in Southern California
for work next month, three people said Jan. 3.  Valero Energy Corp. (VLO) , based in San Antonio, is starting
crude and coker units at the Wilmington refinery in Southern
California following a maintenance turnaround,  Bill Day , a
company spokesman in San Antonio, said in an e-mail.  “Other units remain shut,” he said.  United Steelworkers members who work at Tesoro’s  Kapolei (TEKACRUD) 
refinery in  Hawaii  also rejected the company’s “last, best and
final” offer on a new contract yesterday as negotiations at
four other refineries stalled over benefits language, two people
with direct knowledge of the talks said today.  Tesoro Disagreements  Tesoro has run into disagreements over benefits with unions
at the plants in Kapolei; Martinez; Mandan, North Dakota; Salt
Lake City, and Anacortes,  Washington , the people said. Workers
at the five plants, totaling 508,000 barrels a day in capacity,
may strike if they don’t settle on new contracts.  “Kapolei voted down our offer,” Tina Barbee, a Tesoro
spokeswoman in  San Antonio , said in an e-mail. “Negotiations
continue at all USW-represented Tesoro refineries, and we look
forward to successful ratification of all agreements.”  The premium for Carbob in  San Francisco (MOGSD85P)  rose 6 cents to
25.5 cents a gallon against gasoline futures, also the highest
level since Nov. 4.  California-blend, or CARB, diesel in  Los Angeles (DIEILCAD) 
strengthened 1.38 cents to a premium of 2.13 cents to Nymex
heating oil futures, the highest level in more than three weeks.
San Francisco CARB diesel rose 0.75 cent to a premium of 1 cent
against futures.  Conventional, 87-octane gasoline in  Portland, Oregon (MOGHD87P) , rose
2.5 cents to a discount of 7 cents versus gasoline futures.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lynn Doan in  San Francisco  at 
 ldoan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  