-- Osborne Says Moody’s Warning on Debt Shows U.K. Can’t Waver on Austerity
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2012-02-14T17:37:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/osborne-says-moody-s-move-shows-u-k-can-t-waver-on-deficit-1-.html
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  fended off opposition accusations that he’s not doing
enough to boost growth and said a warning by Moody’s Investors
Service that Britain may lose its Aaa credit rating showed he’s
right to focus on reducing borrowing.  “For me it was a reality check,” Osborne told  BBC  Radio
4’s “Today” show this morning. “It’s yet another reminder
that Britain doesn’t have an easy way out of its economic
problems.”  The Moody’s warning triggered an attack from the opposition
 Labour Party , which said the pace of Osborne’s budget cuts is
damaging confidence in an economy struggling to avoid a second
recession in three years. Osborne says his approach has helped
to maintain the top debt rating -- a keystone of government
policy --, pushed gilt yields lower and given room for the
central bank to loosen monetary policy.  The cuts will see more than 700,000 public-sector jobs axed
in the tightest fiscal squeeze since World War II, erasing the
bulk of a  budget deficit  equal to 9 percent of gross domestic
product by 2017.  Moody’s said Osborne needs to stick to the plan to maintain
confidence. Even then, the U.K. will be vulnerable to shocks
that could blow his plans off course given the limited room for
a policy response.  ‘Negative Outlook’  The driver behind the change to a “negative outlook” for
Britain’s Aaa rated debt is a “weaker macroeconomic
environment,” Moody’s said in a statement in London late
yesterday. Shocks from the euro area’s sovereign debt crisis are
also weighing on the U.K., it said, and the U.K. is now on a par
with France and the U.S. as countries with deficits that run a
risk of being incompatible with an Aaa rating.  “Why does a credit rating matter? It matters because the
most important thing is to keep  interest rates  low, to keep
 mortgage rates  low,” Prime Minister  David Cameron  said in
remarks shown on Sky News television. “We are doing that by
getting to grips with debt and the deficit, but it shows we’ve
got to keep doing that and, yes, we’ve got to get growth too.”  Moody’s warning, which carries a one-in-three chance of an
outright downgrade, comes less than three months after the debt
crisis led Osborne’s fiscal watchdog to cut its growth forecasts
and predict the budget deficit through March 2016 will be 112
billion pounds ($176 billion) higher than it previously thought.  “Politicians exchanged blows over what this means for
their favored approaches to fiscal austerity, but this decision
appears to have little to do with that,” said Philip Rush, a
U.K. economist at Nomura in  London .  ‘1930s Mistake’  Ed Balls , Labour’s Treasury spokesman, repeated his attack
today saying that Osborne’s austerity program is getting in the
way of economic expansion and risks tipping the U.K. into
another recession.  “I fear the world is making the 1930s mistake, and the
 ratings agencies  are partners in this,” Balls told the BBC.
“Today is the first evidence that even the ratings agencies are
waking up.”  The pound fell 0.5 percent to $1.5693 at 5:30 p.m. in
London, after earlier declining as much as 0.7 percent, the most
in a month. U.K. 10-year gilt yields fell 3 basis points to 2.09
percent.  “It is quite possible that the U.K. actually loses its AAA
rating at some point,” said  Vicky Redwood , chief U.K. economist
at Capital Economics Ltd. “Even then, the U.K. will still look
the best of a bad bunch. Accordingly, this move should not
significantly damage the U.K.’s safe-haven status.”  Worst January  Spending cuts that helped the U.K. preserve its top  credit
rating  last year and bolstered the pound have been weighing on
the currency as investors lose confidence. Sterling had its
worst January since 2008 against a basket of nine developed-
market peers, falling 0.6 percent, after a 3.1 percent advance
in the second half of 2011, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Gilts are lagging behind lower-rated Treasuries,
after world-beating gains of almost 17 percent last year.  “I would support a targeted easing of fiscal policy to
keep the economy moving while the consumer pays down debt,
 Trevor Greetham , director of  asset allocation  at Fidelity
Worldwide Investment in London, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Without growth, everything becomes more difficult.”  Investors are beginning to favor policies promoting growth
over austerity. President  Barack Obama  has used outlays to drive
America’s recovery even as near-record deficits led to an August
downgrade by  Standard & Poor’s .  Still, recent rating reductions have done little to deter
investors, who poured money into the government bonds of nations
such as  France  and  Austria  even after the countries lost their
AAA ratings at Standard & Poor’s last month.  Budget Cuts  Moody’s said additional budget cuts announced in November
have reduced the scope for further action, making it harder for
the government to meet its goal of eliminating the structural
deficit by 2017, a cornerstone of Osborne’s policy, if the U.K.
is hit by “further abrupt economic or fiscal deterioration.”  The National Institute of Economic and Social Research
forecasts the U.K. economy will shrink 0.1 percent this year and
grow 2.3 percent in 2013, compared with projections in October
for growth of 0.8 percent and 2.6 percent.  Moody’s also said it is less optimistic than Osborne about
his plans to start reducing debt after 2015, when it’s due to
peak at 95 percent of GDP. The company said debt “will peak
later and at a higher level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  