-- Hospira Rises as CEO Says Drugmaker’s Production Rebounding: Chicago Mover
-- B y   A l e x   N u s s b a u m
-- 2012-02-14T21:22:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/hospira-shares-decline-after-forecast-of-profit-decline-chicago-mover.html
Hospira Inc. (HSP) , the maker of generic
injectable drugs, gained the most in almost five months after
the company said a factory cited for manufacturing deficiencies
had reopened and was near previous production levels.  Hospira climbed 6.1 percent to $36.30 at the close of  New
York  trading, for its biggest one-day gain since Sept. 23.
Fourth-quarter profit excluding one-time items was 51 cents a
share, the  Lake Forest , Illinois-based company said in a
statement earlier today. The results beat the 47 cent average of
14 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.  The  Food and Drug Administration  cited Hospira’s Rocky
Mount, North Carolina, plant in April 2010 following four drug
recalls. After a December shutdown, the factory is now operating
at about 60 percent to 70 percent capacity, close to where it
was before the closing, Chief Executive F. Michael Ball said on
a  conference call  with analysts today. The FDA hasn’t raised the
possibility of a consent decree that might bring more penalties,
he said.  “The fact that there is no consent decree in the near-
term” cheered investors, said Louise Chen, a Stewart Collins
LLC analyst in New York, in a telephone interview. “Now, you
know the bottom and that’s helpful.”  Plant Shutdown  A consent decree could lead to a longer shutdown at  Rocky
Mount , Chen said. The factory’s products accounted for about a
quarter of Hospira’s $4.06 billion in sales last year, the
analyst said.  Profit excluding one-time costs may be $2 to $2.30 a share
this year, a drop from $3.04 in 2011, the company said. The
 forecast  was below the $2.47 average of 15 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. Hospira said fixing problems at Rocky
Mount and other facilities, as well as efforts to expand
capacity, will shave 66 cents a share off of 2012 earnings.  Hospira announced new management at Rocky Mount in a
statement yesterday, and appointed a companywide senior vice-
president of quality. It’s also brought in consultants to review
the plants and is making further changes to “processes and
procedures” at the  North Carolina  facility, said a spokesman,
Daniel Rosenberg, in an e-mail.  Ball said he still expects the quality overhaul to cost
about $300 million to $375 million. He said he’d had no
discussions with the FDA about signing a consent decree.  Likes Chances  “We are doing the best job possible of getting the
situation fixed, continuing to dialogue with the FDA to ensure
that they are on board and know what we’re doing,” Ball told
analysts. “And I think that in that respect moving forward, I
like our chances.”  Hospira had a fourth-quarter  net loss  of $214 million, or
$1.30 a share, compared with net income of $60.6 million, or 36
cents, a year earlier, the company said.  The “OK” quarter defied expectations, Chen said in an e-
mail. The company credited strong sales of docetaxel, its
chemotherapy drug, for the results and will have to show
investors the gains are sustainable, she said.  Hospira, in a separate  statement , said it was working with
the FDA to increase production of methotrexate, a cancer drug
used to treat childhood leukemia. Supplies have run low since
Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH shut its Ben Venue Laboratories
factory in  Ohio  last year after manufacturing problems there.  Hospira is “working urgently to help resolve the
methotrexate shortage,” said Thomas Moore, its president of
U.S. operations, in the statement on the company’s website. The
drugmaker is working with FDA to qualify a second supplier of
the medicine’s active ingredient to enable increased production,
according to the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Nussbaum in New York at 
 anussbaum1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  