-- China’s Stocks Decline Most in Week on Economic Outlook, European Concerns
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-14T07:52:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/most-china-stocks-decline-on-economic-outlook-moody-s-european-downgrades.html
China’s stocks  fell the most in a
week after Moody’s Investors Service cut the debt ratings of six
European nations and a former central bank official said the
government is unlikely to significantly loosen credit this year.  Jiangxi Copper Co. (600362)  and Western Mining Co. led a decline for
commodity producers on concern the European debt crisis will
curb demand for metals.  Shanghai Pudong Development Bank (600000)  Co. and
China Citic Bank Corp. slid at least 0.9 percent, pacing a
retreat for financial stocks, on speculation tight credit will
hurt profit. Guangzhou Hongli Opto-electronic Co. advanced to
the highest this year after Citic Securities Co. recommended
investors “overweight” the light-emitting diode industry.  The Moody’s downgrade is “not new but the timing is quite
surprising,”  Andy Mantel , founder and chief executive officer
of Pacific Sun Advisors, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today from Hong Kong. “You’ll see a bit negative
shock for Asian markets as a whole.”  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 7.08 points, or 0.3
percent, to 2,344.77 at the close, its biggest loss since Feb.
7. The  CSI 300 Index  lost 0.4 percent to 2,522.11. The  Bloomberg
China-US 55 Index , the measure of the most-traded U.S.-listed
Chinese companies, rose 1.6 percent yesterday in  New York .  The Shanghai Composite has risen 6.6 percent this year on
speculation the central bank will further cut lenders’ reserve-
requirement ratios to spur growth. It announced a reduction in
reserve ratios on Nov. 30, the first since 2008, after boosting
them and  interest rates  last year to cool inflation.  European Downgrades  A measure of material stocks in the CSI 300 slid 0.6
percent today, the third most among the 10 industry groups.
Jiangxi Copper, China’s biggest producer of the metal, fell 0.5
percent to 26.36 yuan. Western Mining, the nation’s fourth-
largest maker of zinc concentrate, dropped 0.8 percent to 10.60
yuan.  Yunnan Aluminium Co. (000807) , the country’s fifth-largest producer
of the light metal, retreated 1.4 percent to 5.80 yuan.  Spain  was downgraded to A3 from A1 with a negative outlook,
Italy was downgraded to A3 from A2 with a negative outlook and
 Portugal  was downgraded to Ba3 from Ba2 with a negative outlook,
Moody’s said. The agency also revised its outlook on the U.K.’s
and  France ’s top Aaa rating to “negative.”  Europe is China’s biggest export market, making up about 18
percent of the nation’s overseas shipments, according to Shenyin
& Wanguo Securities Co.  No Significant Loosening  Pudong Bank, a partner of Citigroup Inc., slid 0.9 percent
to 9.19 yuan. Citic Bank, the banking unit of the nation’s
largest investment company, fell 1.4 percent to 4.40 yuan.
 Industrial & Commercial Bank of China Ltd. , the biggest listed
lender, lost 0.3 percent to 3.02 yuan.  China  Construction Bank
Corp., the second largest, slipped 0.4 percent to 2.70 yuan.  The government is unlikely to significantly loosen credit
this year if the economy faces difficulties,  Wu Xiaoling , former
deputy governor of the central bank, said at a forum in Beijing
yesterday. Economic growth is set to slow this year as a result
of weakening external demand, Xia Bin, an adviser to the central
bank, said yesterday.  “With growth replacing inflation at the top of Beijing’s
policy agenda, we believe both monetary and fiscal policies are
set to ease further to support infrastructure, public housing
and water resource projects,”  Qu Hongbin  and Sun Junwei, China
economists at HSBC, said in a report.  Inflation could ease to below 4 percent for the first time
in 17 months in February and the full-year rate will see a
“clear deceleration” from 2011, an official with the nation’s
top economic planning agency said.  Slowing Inflation  Consumer-price (CNCPIYOY)  gains in February will see a “marked”
decline due to a drop in food costs and comparatively high
prices in the same month last year, Zhou Wangjun, vice director
of the pricing department at the National Development and Reform
Commission, said in a webcast with the Xinhua News Agency
yesterday. Consumer prices rose 4.5 percent last month as food
prices rebounded amid the Chinese new year.  Most Chinese stocks climbed yesterday after Premier  Wen Jiabao  said the nation needs to start “fine-tuning” economic
policies this quarter, fueling speculation the government will
soon ease policy to preserve growth in the world’s second-
biggest economy. New lending missed estimates by 26 percent in
January and  money supply  grew the least in more than a decade,
according to data released by the central bank on Feb. 10 after
the market closed.  ‘Break Out’  China’s A shares are poised to “break out” based on
technical signals, according to Macquarie Group Ltd. The CSI 300
has advanced the past four weeks.  “We are seeing possible signs of a sustainable rebound
here,” Jiong Shao, head of China strategy at Macquarie, said in
a report. The CSI 300 “appeared to have broken out of a down
trend which lasted over a year” with the Relative Strength
Index “solidly in the bullish zone in the last four weeks.
While we may need another week or two to conclude, the break-out
signs are getting too hard to ignore.”  Guangzhou Hongli jumped 2.8 percent to 16.08 yuan. Citic
Securities rated the stock “outperform” in initial coverage,
according to a report.  Dongguan Kingsun Optoelectronic Co. (002638) 
gained 3 percent to 27.75 yuan.  LED makers’ profits may “bottom out” in the first quarter
and rise in the second quarter as a ban on fluorescent lights
overseas this year will be an important opportunity for them,
the report said.  The  China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRZ)  is vetting an
application from E Fund Management Co. to start the mainland’s
first exchange-traded fund tracking Hong Kong-listed shares of
Chinese companies.  “It will be China’s first ETF fund investing in  Hong
Kong ’s stock markets,” said Lu Huitian, an analyst at Howbuy.
“Mainland investors will have more investment options as ETFs
are very convenient for them to buy and sell while it’s also
definitely a boost to Hong Kong stocks.”  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., advanced for the first time in
three days, increasing 1.3 percent to $39.42.  --Zhang Shidong. Editors: Allen Wan, Ravil Shirodkar  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at   dboey@bloomberg.net  