-- Houston Funeral to Be Held Feb. 18 at New Jersey Church of Singer’s Youth
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-02-14T16:37:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/houston-s-funeral-scheduled-for-saturday.html
Whitney Houston’s funeral will be
held Saturday, Feb. 18, at the Newark church the pop singer
attended as a youth, according to the owner of the funeral home
where her body was taken last night.  The service at New Hope Baptist Church in  New Jersey 
will be invitation-only and no wake is planned, Carolyn Whigham,
owner of the Whigham Funeral Home, said today in an interview.
Houston won’t be buried in Newark, said Whigham, who declined to
provide further details, citing privacy concerns.  Houston “grew up” at New Hope Baptist, “a church she
loved and visited whenever she had the occasion,” according to
a  news release  on its website. Houston’s mother, Emily “Cissy”
Houston, served as the minister of sacred music for more than 54
years and remains a “faithful member,” according to the
statement. The church held a special weekend prayer service in
the singer’s honor.  The 48-year-old pop singer was found in a bath tub
“underwater and apparently unconscious” at about 3:30 p.m. on
Feb. 11 at the Beverly Hilton hotel by a member of her staff,
according to police. She was pronounced dead at 3:55 p.m. after
unsuccessful resuscitation efforts.  Beverly Hills Police are investigating the circumstances of
Houston’s death, said Lieutenant Mark Rosen, a spokesman. Foul
play isn’t suspected and the cause of death won’t be known until
the results of toxicology tests are available in two or three
weeks, he said.  “There is an active investigation, a death
investigation,” Rosen said yesterday. “This was not prompted
by Ms. Houston’s celebrity or notoriety. This is routine.”  The 18,500-seat Prudential Center in  Newark  had been
offered for the funeral, said a person with knowledge of the
situation who requested anonymity because the plans weren’t
public.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esme E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  