-- Pamplona Capital Intends to Raise $300 Million for Structured Credit Fund
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   K u o
-- 2012-02-14T15:58:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/pamplona-capital-seeking-300-million-to-snap-up-banks-structured-credit.html
Pamplona Capital Management LLP, the
asset manager founded by former  Alfa Bank  Chief Executive
Officer Alex Knaster, plans to raise as much as $300 million for
a new fund to invest in structured credit in Europe.  The Debt Partners II fund is targeting an annual return of
between 15 percent and 20 percent by buying BB to AA rated
portions of U.K. mortgage-backed securitizations and European
collateralized loan obligations, according to Zoran Kozic, a
partner at London-based Pamplona.  Pamplona, which manages $6.5 billion, is starting the new
credit hedge fund as European banks find themselves under
growing pressure to offload structured-finance assets blamed for
hastening the 2008 collapse of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc.
European lenders have pledged to cut more than 950 billion euros
($1.3 trillion) of assets over the next two years to reduce the
capital they’d otherwise need to hold against them.  “We see great opportunities in structured credit which is
an area most banks don’t want to be involved in any more,”
Kozic said in an interview.  Investors focusing on buying banks’ corporate loan
portfolios at distressed prices will, on the other hand, be
disappointed, he said.  “We think the trillion-dollar opportunity some people talk
about on the sales of corporate loan portfolios from banks is
grossly exaggerated,” Kozic, 42, said. “Corporate lending is a
business banks will want to keep and it doesn’t make sense for
them to sell the loans at capital-destroying prices.”  Credit Opportunities  The existing $400 million  Pamplona Credit Opportunities
Fund, (PAMCOPA)  managed by Yves Leysen, former head of European fixed-
income at Bear Stearns Cos., generated an average net annual
return of 10.6 percent since it started in 2008, and earned 2.09
percent last month, according to the company.  Pamplona’s looking to create profit by buying mortgage-
backed securities at big discounts to liquidation prices or
buying real-estate loans from banks and then restructuring the
debt with the borrowers, Kozic said. European banks have cut
back on lending after incurring 526 billion euros of losses
since the third quarter of 2007 in the credit crisis and ensuing
property slump, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Relative yields on BBB rated five-year securities backed by
commercial mortgages in  Europe  including the U.K. have risen to
1,900 basis points, from about 1,400 six months ago, according
to Citigroup Inc. data. Top-rated CMBS note spreads narrowed to
450 basis points, from 500 basis points.  Commercial Properties  Borrowers of loans backed by offices, warehouses and other
commercial properties face a funding gap of about 90 billion
euros over the next three years, according to a Moody’s
Investors Service estimate in December.  “After the price declines, we believe pension funds will
shift their investment focus to real-estate from corporate
fixed-income in the next two to four years, and mortgage-backed
bonds are well positioned to benefit from that change of
allocation,” Kozic said.  Pamplona also sees value in AA, A, and BBB rated European
CLOs after prices fell in the past six months amid the sovereign
debt crisis, he said.  Spreads on the BBB rated portions of European CLOs have
widened to 1,615 basis points from 1,025 at the beginning of
August, Citigroup data show. By comparison, spreads on similarly
rated U.S. CLOs increased to 775 basis points from 700. Prices
have fallen to 51 cents on the euro from 65 for BBB rated
tranches in Europe. A basis point is 0.01 percentage point.  Pamplona’s new fund will have a four-year investment
period, and will waive its incentive fee if it returns less than
8 percent, said Kozic, whose hobbies away from the markets
include ownership of the  Slough Jets  ice hockey club in Slough,
 England .  Pamplona  was set up in 2004, a year after Knaster retired
from Alfa Bank. It has a private-equity business, a fund of
 hedge funds  and two credit funds, according to its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Kuo in London at 
 pkuo2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Faris Khan at 
 fkhan33@bloomberg.net  