-- Panetta Urges Congress to Avert Doubling of Pentagon Cutbacks Over Decade
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n
-- 2012-02-14T21:45:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/panetta-urges-congress-to-avert-doubling-of-pentagon-cutbacks-over-decade.html
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  urged
Congress today to abandon automatic defense budget cuts of about
$500 billion over 10 years that he said would cause “severe
damage” to the military.  While defending the Obama administration’s $525 billion
budget proposal for fiscal 2013 and its plan to trim future
defense spending by 8.5 percent in the coming decade, Panetta
told the Senate Armed Services Committee that deeper cuts that
would be imposed starting in January would trigger a “meat-axe
approach” to military programs “inflicting severe damage to
our national defense.”  Arizona Senator  John McCain , the panel’s top Republican,
said the Obama administration is at fault for failing to work
with Congress on a plan to avoid the automatic cuts, which were
mandated after a congressional supercommittee failed to agree on
an alternative plan under a deficit-reduction law passed last
year.  “Unfortunately, this  defense budget  continues the
administration’s habit of putting short-term political
considerations over our long-term national security interests,”
McCain said.  Panetta will hear more such criticism tomorrow, when he
appears before the Republican-controlled House Armed Services
Committee. That panel’s chairman, California Representative
Howard “Buck” McKeon, said in a statement yesterday that the
budget would “reduce resources for our struggling armed forces,
and redirect them to exploding domestic bureaucracies.”  Base Closings  Some of the Democrats who control the Senate committee
expressed reservations with some provisions of the budget.  The panel’s chairman, Democratic Senator  Carl Levin  of
 Michigan , signaled resistance to the administration’s call for
two new rounds of domestic military base closings. Levin said
reducing the U.S. presence in  Europe  should be the “first
priority” before closing any domestic bases.  Senator  Joseph Lieberman  of  Connecticut , an independent,
joined some Republicans who said Panetta’s budget reduces
military programs too deeply even without additional automatic
cuts.  “I consider this budget to represent unacceptable risk to
our national security, and I hope members of this committee
across party lines will work together to reduce that risk in a
fiscally responsible way,” Lieberman said.  Graham Disagrees  Senator Lindsey Graham  of  South Carolina  broke ranks with
his Republican colleagues to express support for the thrust of
Panetta’s effort at budget cutting.  “I do believe it’s appropriate to reduce defense spending,
and I do believe it’s appropriate to consider another round” of
base closings, Graham said.  When combined with $88.5 billion to fund war costs in
 Afghanistan  and  Iraq , the total Pentagon request for next year
comes to $613.9 billion, down $31.8 billion from the amount
enacted by Congress for this year.  Panetta outlined in his testimony the Pentagon’s proposal
to cut $259 billion through 2017 from previous plans that had
called for steady growth in annual spending. Over five years,
the Pentagon would cut $94 billion in weapons procurement, $69
billion in military personnel, $60 billion in operations and
maintenance, $19 billion in military construction and $17
billion in research and development.  Among the single largest savings is a reduction in troop
strength.  Military personnel, including Reserve and National Guard
forces, would be cut by 123,900 troops by 2017, according to
Pentagon budget documents. That reduction, leaving a force of
2.15 million, would save about $50 billion over five years,
Panetta said.  ‘Agile Force’  “The strategy review recognized that a smaller, ready and
agile force is preferable to a larger force that is poorly
trained and ill-equipped,” Panetta said.  The budget would save $75 billion over five years by
canceling or restructuring weapons programs, including $15.1
billion by slowing procurement of  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT) ’s F-35
Joint Strike Fighter.  An additional $4.3 billion would be saved by delaying for
two years the development of the next generation of ballistic
missile submarines.  Pentagon Priorities  Offsetting some of the cuts are investments in Pentagon
priorities, including $6.3 billion over five years for a new Air
Force bomber, $3.4 billion for cybersecurity, and $10.4 billion
for the Special Operations Forces whose commando unit killed
 Osama bin Laden  last year.  Committee members questioned Panetta about a proposal to
transfer five Taliban detainees from Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to
Qatar, as part of an effort to negotiate a reconciliation with
the Taliban in Afghanistan.  “Such a significant step strikes me as premature,” Levin
said.  Panetta said no decision has been made and that he would
need to convinced that the detainees wouldn’t return to the
battlefield before he would agree to certify any transfer.  McCain, signaling the election-year battle to come over
military spending levels, said the administration’s plan would
lead to “the hollowing out of the U.S. military and the decline
of U.S. military power.”  Panetta said “it was this Congress that mandated, on a
bipartisan basis, that we reduce the defense budget, and we need
your partnership to do this in a manner that preserves the
strongest military in the world.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  