-- Paulson Files to Approach Hartford Holders About Breakup
-- B y   A n d r e w   F r y e
-- 2012-02-15T00:05:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/paulson-seeks-to-approach-hartford-shareholders-on-breakup-of-u-s-insurer.html
Billionaire  John Paulson , who
controls an 8.4 percent stake in  Hartford Financial Services
Group Inc. (HIG) , filed a document with regulators so he can approach
other investors about his plan to break up the insurer.  “We have done exhaustive research on the challenges and
opportunities of the Hartford and believe that a spinoff would
produce an increase in value for Hartford shareholders,” the
hedge fund manager said in a letter to Chief Executive Officer
 Liam McGee  that was published today in a statement. Hartford
said in a separate statement it is willing to talk to Paulson
and other investors about his proposal.  Paulson is appealing directly to shareholders as McGee
resists pressure to  split  the 201-year-old firm into separate
property-casualty and life-insurance companies. Hartford, which
fell 39 percent in  New York  last year, is valued at less than
half its book value. That compares with a price-to-book ratio of
about 0.7 for MetLife Inc., the biggest U.S. life insurer, and
almost 1 for property-casualty rival Travelers Cos.  “Hartford trades at lower valuation multiples than any of
its U.S. insurance peers,” Paulson said in the letter.
“Addressing these issues should be Hartford’s highest
priority.”  Paulson pushed for the split on Feb. 8 in an investor
conference call hosted by the company to discuss fourth-quarter
results. Later that day, Tamara Kravec, a managing director at
Hartford shareholder NWQ Investment Management Co., said the
insurer should “take aggressive action and deliver value” to
shareholders.  ‘Potential Benefits’  “We recognize there are potential benefits to a
separation,” Hartford said in a statement today. “While there
are challenges to successfully executing a separation, we
welcome Paulson’s views and look forward to continued dialogue
with him and other shareholders.”  Hartford surged 5.5 percent to $20.90 at 6:20 p.m. in late
New York trading. Paulson published the letter after the close
of regular trading on the New York Stock Exchange.  McGee told Paulson that a separation probably wouldn’t
“create  shareholder value ,” and the company cited credit
ratings and the need for regulatory approvals among the
challenges.  Paulson & Co. held 8.4 percent of Hartford as of Dec. 31,
while NWQ’s stake was about 5.7 percent, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg. State Street Corp. and  Germany ’s Allianz
SE each had holdings of more than 5 percent, according to the
data. Hartford is based in the Connecticut city of the same
name.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Frye in New York at 
 afrye@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Kraut at   dkraut2@bloomberg.net  