-- Payroll-Tax Cut Extension Agreement Nearing, U.S. Lawmakers Say
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2012-02-14T21:43:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/payroll-tax-cut-extension-agreement-nearing-u-s-lawmakers-say.html
Congressional Republicans and
Democrats said they were close to an agreement to extend through
the rest of 2012 a  payroll-tax  cut, expanded jobless benefits
and doctors’ Medicare reimbursements.  “It seems like we’re getting closer,” said Representative
 Fred Upton , a Michigan Republican and a member of a House-Senate
conference committee on the legislation.  Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, also
expressed optimism, saying, “I’m very happy that we have the
situation that has developed with the  payroll tax .” Earlier,
Reid told reporters he was “hopeful and cautiously optimistic”
that the negotiations would yield an agreement.  Yesterday, House Speaker  John Boehner  and other Republican
leaders offered to accept a payroll-tax cut extension without
insisting on spending reductions elsewhere to cover the $94
million cost. The offer was intended to shift blame to Democrats
if the measure fails and take-home pay for U.S. workers shrink
by two percentage points next month.  Earlier today, Democrats said they wouldn’t be rushed into
accepting the tax cut without also including expanded jobless
benefits for people in states with high unemployment and a
measure to avoid a 27 percent cut in doctors’ Medicare
reimbursements.  Congress in December passed an extension of those measures
through Feb. 29 after political pressure pushed Boehner and
rank-and-file  House Republicans  to drop their objections.  Today, House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California
said lawmakers should cancel trips to their home districts next
week if lawmakers didn’t reach a deal on those three points.
Reid added a fourth element when he said he wanted to attach $20
billion in expired tax breaks to the payroll package.  $70 Billion  Reid said lawmakers will need to find about $70 billion to
cover the 10-year cost of extending unemployment benefits,
addressing Medicare reimbursements and reviving some of the tax
breaks.  Meanwhile, House leaders haven’t scheduled a vote on their
measure, which would extend only the payroll tax cut and may
encounter opposition from deficit-conscious Republicans. On the
other side of  Capitol Hill , several Republican senators aligned
with the  Tea Party  said they are concerned about continuing the
payroll tax cut without paying for it.  “I’m still wrestling with it,” Senator  Pat Toomey , a
Pennsylvania Republican, told reporters today.  Senator Rand Paul, a Kentucky Republican who has criticized
the payroll tax break because he said it would reduce funding
for Social Security, said not paying for it makes the provision
an “even worse idea.”  Not ‘a Good Idea’  “I just don’t think it’s a good idea, particularly not to
pay for it,” Paul told reporters yesterday. The House
Republican leaders “feel trapped,” he said. “The president’s
beating them up saying they don’t want to do anything and
they’re just obstructing things.”  President Barack Obama held an event on the White House
grounds today seeking to urge Congress to act quickly on the
payroll tax cut and expanded  unemployment benefits . He said
with the economic recovery still fragile, lawmakers “shouldn’t
hike taxes on working Americans.”  Obama said while there are “hopeful signs” that lawmakers
are moving closer to an agreement, “you can’t take anything for
granted in  Washington .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  