-- Pedophile Goes Driving With Reaser: Yale Rep’s ‘Goods’: Review
-- B y   J e r e m y   G e r a r d
-- 2012-02-14T03:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/pedophile-butz-gives-driving-lessons-to-reaser-yale-s-rep-jeremy-gerard.html
Elizabeth Reaser makes a remarkable
transformation in the first minutes of “How I Learned to
Drive,” being revived at New York’s  Second Stage .  As the adult narrator of Paula Vogel’s Pulitzer Prize-
winning play, she introduces us to a Southern girl’s family-
dominated world.  Then, with a barely noticeable loose-limbed skip and a
faint relaxing of her eyes, she becomes that girl, called Li’l
Bit.  It’s all the more remarkable because the actress is so well
known in grown-up parts, from the “Twilight” film series to
recurring roles on “The Good Wife” and other TV dramas.  Li’l Bit has been taking driving lessons from her over-
attentive uncle, nicknamed Peck and played by Norbert Leo Butz.
Peck has been taken with Li’l Bit from the day of her birth.  Since nature took its course with her chest, however, that
attention has become a more sinister obsession. The car rides he
takes her on, beginning at age 11, are skirmishes at which she
generally loses as the stakes grow increasingly more tawdry.  Reaser persuasively negotiates the emotional journey
between memory and first-hand experience, even as Vogel
intensifies the challenge by skipping around in time and holding
her trump card until the final scene.  It’s not until the last moments of “How I Learned to Drive”
that we realize the sometimes charming Peck is truly evil.  Reaser and Butz are superb as a girl whose trusting nature
is inexorably destroyed by an unrepentant, methodical predator.
Director Kate Whoriskey seems unconcerned with developing any
sympathy for a pedophile. That’s probably as it should be, even
if it’s slightly less interesting than a more complex reading.  Through March 11 at 305 W. 43rd St. Information: +1-212-
246-4422;  http://www.2st.com .
Rating: ***  Yale’s ‘Good Goods’  Yale Repertory Theatre  is the place where August Wilson
began his unmatched cycle about life in a black enclave of
Pittsburgh. Those 10 plays unselfconsciously shifted between
realism and ghost story, tall tale and religious experience.  Christina Anderson, whose “Good Goods” has just opened at
the Rep, has some Wilson coursing through her veins.  Good Goods is the name of a family-owned dry goods store in
a rural outpost somewhere in the deep south. Truth (the
wonderful Marc Damon Johnson) cares for the place founded by his
adoptive father, now dead.  Stacey is the prodigal, the owner’s birth son, who has come
back after years on the road as an entertainer with Patricia
(de’Adre Aziza). Patricia also shows up, with Sunny (Angela
Lewis) a sweet young girl she met on the bus. Rounding out the
company is Wire (Kyle Beltran), with whom Truth shares a secret.  Much of what transpires on James Schuette’s beautiful home-
spun set is the poetry of unsung lives unfolding in places
barely drawn on any map.  But when an accident in a nearby factory takes the life of
a neighbor, his soul invades Sunny’s body and some hell breaks
loose. A place we think we may know becomes as exotic as a
distant world.  Anderson, abetted by Tina Landau’s assured direction, is a
voice to reckon with. Lewis, most recently seen in “Milk Like
Sugar” at  Playwrights Horizons , is memorable as the possessed
Sunny. Tugging at her bindings and growling imprecations, Lewis
is bottled ferocity in a knockout performance that makes a trip
to  New Haven  eminently worthwhile.  Through Feb. 25 at 1120 Chapel St., New Haven. Information:
+1-203-432-1234;  http://www.yalerep.org .
Rating: ***  (Jeremy Gerard is the chief U.S. drama critic for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jeremy Gerard in  New York  at 
 jgerard2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 