-- Pentagon Challenges Congress Not to ‘Pick At’ $525 Billion Military Budget
-- B y   R o x a n a   T i r o n
-- 2012-02-14T16:19:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/pentagon-challenges-congress-not-to-pick-at-525-billion-plan.html
The Pentagon is challenging
lawmakers not to pull apart its $525 billion proposed budget as
Defense Secretary  Leon Panetta  went to  Capitol Hill  to make the
case for reduced spending linked to a new military strategy.  “There is always a danger that some people would try to
pick at one part, pick and choose something that is not
convenient to them, but they have a big burden this year”
because of spending cuts mandated by law,  Ashton Carter ,
Panetta’s top deputy, said in an interview yesterday.  The proposed spending plan sent to Congress yesterday is
$45 billion less than projected a year ago and the first
installment in an 8.5 percent reduction by 2021. With $88.5
billion in war spending added in, the total would come to $613.9
billion, down $31.8 billion from the amount enacted by Congress
for this year.  Republicans said the cuts run too deep, a theme they
sounded when Panetta appeared today before the Senate Armed
Services Committee, where Democrats are in the majority. He
testifies tomorrow before the Republican-controlled House Armed
Services panel.  “Unfortunately, this  defense budget  continues the
administration’s habit of putting short-term political
considerations over our long-term national security interests,”
Senator  John McCain  of  Arizona , the top Republican on the Senate
panel, said at its hearing today.  ‘Struggling Armed Forces’  President  Barack Obama ’s priorities will reduce “resources
for our struggling armed forces and redirect them to exploding
domestic bureaucracies,” Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon
of  California , the Republican chairman of the House committee,
said yesterday in a statement. “This budget reflects a true
reduction, in real terms, of military spending while we have
troops in combat.”  Congress passed a budget control act in August that
mandates reductions in defense and domestic spending in an
effort to reduce the federal deficit. In response, Obama
directed the Defense Department to cut almost $490 billion from
projected spending over a decade.  “We did a strategy review first and then derived the
budget from the strategy,” Carter, the deputy defense
secretary, said. “Somebody who wants to make a change needs to
explain how that’s consistent with the strategy.”  Cuts by Category  The resulting budget would cut $259 billion through 2017
from previous plans through reductions of $94 billion in weapons
procurement, $69 billion in military personnel, $60 billion in
operations and maintenance, $19 billion in military construction
and $17 billion in research and development.  Lawmakers critical of the budget “haven’t had to balance
one part against the other,” Carter said. “We did that. What
we did week after week after week is try to balance and round
out that package, bounce it against the strategy.”  The Pentagon started the strategic review in mid-September,
with an “unprecedented amount of involvement” by Obama, Carter
said. Top Pentagon officials, including Panetta, Carter and
General Martin Dempsey, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff,
met with Obama six times from September through December to
agree on the new military strategy and the budget linked to it.  Carter said he led about 34 two-hour-long meetings to work
out details of the budget and the strategic review. Panetta ran
the recommendations by each of the military services “along the
way,” Carter said.  Pentagon Dinners  Panetta also gave Congress regular “status” reports, and
he held several dinners at the Pentagon with congressional
committee leaders, Carter said.  The budget debate may turn into a blame game over who is
responsible for cutting the military and may lead to a stalemate
that won’t be resolved until after the November election,
according to  Todd Harrison , a defense-budget analyst.  “There’s no easy answer or ready-made consensus on how to
deal with the deficit,” Harrison of the Center for Strategic
and Budgetary Assessments, a Washington policy group, said
yesterday in an interview. Lawmakers and the Obama
administration are “going to be in a big fight, and this is
going to be part of the campaign.”  The budget request marks the third consecutive year of
slower growth in military spending since Panetta’s predecessor,
Defense Secretary  Robert Gates , told Congress in January 2009
that “the spigot of defense spending that opened on 9/11 is
closing.”  Cuts by Categories  The Defense Department proposes reducing military personnel
by 31,300, or 1.4 percent, from this year. Adding in cuts from
this year, military personnel, including Reserve and National
Guard units, would be reduced by about 124,000 through 2017.  Personnel levels would drop to 2,238,400 from 2,269,700
this year. The total would be 2,145,800 by 2017.  “It’s a fine line we are walking with the amount of cuts
balancing the readiness, our modernization, our force structure
and end strength,” General  Ray Odierno , the Army’s chief of
staff, said in an interview yesterday. He said it was crucial
for the personnel reduction to be phased in gradually.  “Doing it over five years allows us to properly take care
of our soldiers and our families,” Odierno said.  McKeon cited a comment by White House Chief of Staff Jack Lew in an interview on NBC’s “Meet the Press” that “the time
for austerity is not today.”  “They’ll have a tough time explaining that to the 100,000
troops who will be forced from service under the president’s new
budget plan,” McKeon said in his statement yesterday.  Automatic Cuts  McCain and  Senator Lindsey Graham  a Republican from  South
Carolina  who is a member of the Senate armed services panel,  in
a statement yesterday criticized Obama for failing to propose
ways to avoid even larger defense reductions.  Automatic cuts of as much as $500 billion, excluding
interest savings, are scheduled to start taking effect in
January.  The budget act enacted in August mandated the automatic
cuts if a special congressional committee failed to find ways to
reduce the deficit by at least $1.2 trillion. That
supercommittee announced in November that it couldn’t settle on
a plan, setting in motion the prospect of automatic cuts in
defense.  “Neither the Defense Department nor the Obama
administration have made any serious plans to avoid the
additional defense cuts,” McCain and Graham said in their
statement. “Every military and civilian defense official has
said these draconian cuts represent a threat to our national
security, and must not occur.”  ‘Last-Minute Decisions’  McCain and Graham have called for reducing the civilian
federal workforce to avert the deeper defense cuts.  If automatic cuts loomed, “we would have to start all over
again,” Carter said. The Pentagon may start planning for that
eventuality later this year “if it looks like the country,
especially the Congress, is unwise enough” to permit that to
happen.  Congress probably won’t deal with averting the automatic
cuts until after the November elections, Harrison, the defense
analyst, said.  “It’ll all come down to last-minute decisions in a lame-
duck session of Congress,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Roxana Tiron in Washington at 
 rtiron@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  