-- Pernod Shares May Decline Without Increase in Distiller’s Earnings Outlook
-- B y   C l e m e n t i n e   F l e t c h e r
-- 2012-02-14T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/pernod-may-fall-without-increase-in-distiller-s-earnings-outlook.html
Pernod Ricard SA (RI) , France’s biggest
distiller, may fall in Paris trading should the company fail to
increase its profit outlook when it reports earnings tomorrow.  Seven out of 10  analysts  surveyed by Bloomberg News said
they expect the maker of Absolut vodka to raise its Oct. 20
forecast for earnings growth of about 6 percent because of
increased sales of Martell cognac in  China .  “If Pernod doesn’t raise its forecasts, that could be
disappointing,” said  Melissa Earlam , an analyst at UBS AG in
London. “If they reiterate close to 6 percent, the shares may
come under some pressure on the day.” UBS has a “buy”
recommendation on the stock.  Pernod  shares  have risen 4.4 percent this month in
anticipation that the liquor maker may raise the forecast. The
company will probably report growth of 12 percent in first-half
earnings and 10 percent in so-called organic revenue, according
to the median estimate of the 10 analysts surveyed.  The  results  will benefit from an earlier Chinese New Year,
which brought forward purchases to celebrate the festival to the
second quarter from the third. Remy Cointreau SA, the maker of
Remy Martin cognac, reported first-half sales growth that was
double the pace analysts expected on Chinese liquor sales.  First-half sales also benefited as suppliers and drinkers
in  France , Pernod’s home market, stocked up on products before
the end of 2011 in order to avoid a tax increase on Jan. 1.  Second-Half Risks  “A positive surprise on the first-half earnings is already
largely expected and priced in by the market, whereas the risks
of slower momentum in  Europe  and in Asian whiskey in its fiscal
second half are not,” Laetitia Delaye, an analyst at Kepler
Capital Markets in Paris, wrote in a note dated Feb. 3.  Delaye, who has a “hold”  recommendation  on the stock,
said the company’s profit forecast is unlikely to match the
consensus estimate for growth of 8.2 percent. Pernod’s profit is
defined as earnings before interest and taxation, excluding
acquisitions, one-time items and currency fluctuations.  “The current guidance is very unambitious,” said  Trevor Stirling , an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. “However, if I
were in their shoes I wouldn’t feel comfortable making a
significant change in guidance until I had the third quarter
under my belt.” Bernstein has a “market perform”
recommendation on the stock.  Distillers including Pernod and  Diageo Plc (DGE)  have struggled
to increase sales in Europe as difficult economic conditions
restrain alcohol purchases. Diageo said this month it’s
“cautious as to the consumer and economic trends we will face
in 2012” and maintained its goals for medium-term organic sales
growth of 6 percent and to improve its profitability. Organic
sales exclude the effects of currency moves and acquisitions.  Diageo, the maker of Smirnoff vodka, reported 9 percent
growth in first-half operating profit. Remy Cointreau posted an
increase in earnings on that basis of 31 percent and said it
expects full-year growth of 15 percent to 18 percent.  Pernod is due to report first-half earnings at 7:30 a.m.
Paris time tomorrow.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Clementine Fletcher in  London  at 
 cfletcher5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  