-- Plosser Says Additional Accommodation Would Put Fed on ‘Treacherous Path’
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-02-14T17:26:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/plosser-says-further-easing-would-put-fed-on-treacherous-path-.html
Philadelphia Federal Reserve Bank
President  Charles Plosser  said that further efforts to boost
economic growth could increase risks of rising prices and
instability in financial markets.  “Despite the extraordinary steps taken to support the
economy, many argue that monetary policy should do more,”
Plosser said in a speech in  Newark , Delaware. “I disagree and
believe that doing so would lead us down a very treacherous path
-- one that would be ever more difficult to navigate and one
that would increase the already substantial risk of higher
inflation.”  Plosser said he opposed the  Federal Open Market Committee’s (FDTR) 
January announcement that economic conditions may warrant
holding interest rates near zero through at least late 2014,
replacing an earlier pledge to keep borrowing costs low through
mid-2013.  “The problem is not just inflation risk down the road,”
Plosser said. “Prolonged efforts to hold  interest rates  near
zero can lead to financial market distortions and the
misallocation of resources.”  U.S. stocks fell today as American retail sales growth
trailed economists’ estimates and investors watched  Greece ’s
attempts to tame its debt crisis. The  S&P 500  slid 0.3 percent
to 1,347.91 at 12:08 p.m. in  New York . The yield on the 10-year
Treasury fell to 1.94 percent from 1.97 percent yesterday.  The risks to the U.S. from  Europe ’s fiscal crisis have
“diminished” thanks to efforts by European governments,
Plosser told reporters after his speech.  Not ‘Solved Yet’  “I don’t think it’s solved yet,” Plosser said. “But I
feel better that they’re going to deal with this and deal with
the problems without having a financial implosion.”  The  U.S. economy  will probably grow at 3 percent in 2012
and in 2013, with inflation likely to “settle” at about 2
percent this year, Plosser said. His growth outlook for this
year compares with policy makers’ so-called central tendency
forecasts of 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, which exclude the
highest and lowest estimates.  Given his economic outlook, Plosser said he expects the Fed
would need to raise interest rates before the late 2014 date
mentioned in the Fed’s January policy statement.  “I am not suggesting any tightening any time soon,”
Plosser said, while adding that he is “dubious of the necessity
for further easing.”  FOMC Dissents  The Philadelphia Fed chief, who doesn’t vote on the FOMC
this year, dissented from the Fed’s decisions in August and
September to increase monetary stimulus for the economy, citing
higher inflation and lower unemployment in 2011.  “The labor market has grown stronger in recent months,”
Plosser said. “Although there are still too many people
unemployed in our region and the nation, I am encouraged by the
most recent employment reports.”  The Labor Department said in January that the economy added
243,000 jobs and the  unemployment rate  fell to 8.3 percent, the
lowest in three years.  “As growth continues and strengthens, I expect further
gradual declines in the unemployment rate, with the rate falling
to 8 percent or less, by the end of 2012,” Plosser said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said in testimony before the
Senate Budget Committee last week that the 8.3 percent
unemployment rate masks weakness in the labor market. The
unemployment rate doesn’t include people who only have part-time
jobs or who are out of the  labor force  because they have given
up searching for jobs, Bernanke said.  Further Action  In a Jan. 25 press conference, Bernanke said that the
central bank may need to take further action to boost the
economy.  “If the situation continues with inflation below target
and unemployment declining at a rate which is very, very slow,
then the logic of our framework says we should be looking for
ways to do more,” Bernanke said.  Plosser criticized what he said were “go-stop” policies
from the Fed.  “Policy makers step on the accelerator aggressively, only
to slam on the brakes in order to change course,” Plosser, 63,
said in his speech at the University of  Delaware  Center for
Education and Entrepreneurship.  “It is an approach most often driven by an excessive focus
on the short run and perhaps some hubris that we will be able to
successfully avert the risks such a strategy poses for the
economy over the longer run,” he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Newark, Delaware at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  