-- Polish Committee Backs Copper Tax Plan, Keeps Rate Unchanged
-- B y   M a c i e j   M a r t e w i c z
-- 2012-02-14T14:04:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/polish-committee-backs-copper-tax-plan-keeps-rate-unchanged.html
The Polish Parliament’s finance
committee backed a law that imposes a tax on copper and silver
extraction without changing the levy’s rate, allowing lawmakers
to vote on the bill this week.  The government plans to raise about 1.8 billion zloty ($566
million) this year and 2.2 billion zloty starting in 2013
through the law, which will be introduced 14 days after it’s
announced, according to the  Finance Ministry .  Poland  wants to cut its state budget deficit in half this
year to the European Union’s ceiling of 3 percent of gross
domestic product as the bloc’s largest eastern member faces an
economic slowdown because of the euro-region credit crisis. The
law would directly affect  KGHM Polska Miedz SA (KGH) , the country’s
sole copper and silver producer, which plans to report 11.2
billion zloty in net income for 2011.  Poland can’t afford to lower the tax, Slawomir Neumann, a
deputy chairman of the committee and a member of the ruling
 Civic Platform  party, said in an interview yesterday. The lower
chamber of Parliament, the Sejm, will vote on the law this week.
The ruling coalition has enough votes to pass it.  Shares of state-controlled KGHM plunged 14 percent on Nov.
18 when Prime Minister Donald Tusk announced the plan to
introduce the tax in his policy speech.  The tax formula by the Finance Ministry was modified twice
after protests from the Economy and Treasury Ministries as well
as KGHM. KGHM Chief Executive Officer  Herbert Wirth  said last
month the tax may make output at its Lubin mine, one of its
three in Poland, economically inviable.  Poland estimates its 2011 fiscal deficit was 5.6 percent of
the country’s gross domestic product.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maciej Martewicz in Warsaw at 
 mmartewicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  