-- Publicis Offers Customers of Ailing Greek Business Partial Compensation
-- B y   A m y   T h o m s o n
-- 2012-02-15T15:25:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/publicis-offers-clients-of-ailing-greek-business-partial-redress.html
Publicis Groupe SA (PUB)  said it is
offering partial compensation to Greek television and radio
clients which lost money after the unit of its local  Leo Burnett 
advertising agency failed to pay bills.  Greek TV and radio stations didn’t receive payments for
advertising space when  Leo Burnett ’s Greek unit, which had
booked spots for companies such as  Procter & Gamble Co ., went
into a pre-bankruptcy process in July. The division ran into
trouble after a local TV company it did business with, Alter TV,
went bankrupt and several Greek clients stopped making payments.  Publicis,  France ’s largest advertising agency, is offering
local broadcasters about 60 percent of what they were owed for
ad bookings from companies outside of  Greece , Senior Vice
President Mathias Emmerich said yesterday in an interview. The
Alter TV bankruptcy left “the advertising agencies in Greece
with bad debt of 180 million euros ($236 million),” he said.  Antenna Group, a Greek television and radio company, is
owed between 3 million euros and 10 million euros and is
rejecting the settlement offer, a spokesman said yesterday. The
privately-held broadcaster, whose assets include the ANT1
television channel and  Rythmos FM  radio station, is considering
“a range of options to recover outstanding sums.”  Emmerich said that four other local media companies,  Alpha
TV ,  Star TV ,  Skai TV  and  Mega TV , agreed to the deal.  First Default  “This is the first default of an international client in
the  media industry  since the beginning of the financial
crisis,” Antenna’s Chief Operating Officer,  Alexander Holland ,
said in a statement. “It puts high pressure on the country’s
entire media sector when an important advertising agency fails
to meet its obligations.”  Violence erupted in Greece this week after politicians
voted for austerity measures, such as lowering the  minimum wage 
and job cuts for state workers, to address the country’s debt
and secure international aid. Greece is grappling with
unemployment that rose to 20.9 percent in November and declining
industrial production.  “A number of media companies, which have carried
advertising booked by Leo Burnett on behalf of companies
including Procter & Gamble, Ferrero and Samsung stand to lose
multi-million euro payments over the closure of the agency,”
Antenna said.  Publicis rose 0.8 percent to 41.05 euros at 4:24 p.m. in
Paris. Before today, the stock had gained 15 percent this year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Amy Thomson in London at 
 athomson6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Kenneth Wong  at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  