-- Qantas Shares Plummet as CEO Joyce Says Australia Carrier Must Grow or Die
-- B y   R o b e r t   F e n n e r   a n d   D a v i d   F i c k l i n g
-- 2012-02-15T05:41:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/qantas-shares-tumble-as-ceo-joyce-says-carrier-must-grow-or-die.html
Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN)  must “adapt or
die,” Chief Executive Officer Alan Joyce told Australian
lawmakers last week as the nation’s biggest carrier confronts
rising costs on unprofitable international  flights . Peter
Bentley, a customer for more than 10 years, agrees.  “They don’t have enough choices for what I need right
now,” said Bentley, head of sales for  Pikes Wines , a vineyard
based in the Clare Valley of  South Australia . “We are on the
doorstep of Asia and that is where we have the growth, and yet
we seem to have these outdated ties to ‘Mother England.’”  For Joyce, Bentley reflects a missed opportunity to parlay
44 million passengers and a  domestic  market share of 65 percent
into a business that can compete on faster-growing routes to
Beijing and  Shanghai . Sydney-based Qantas is reducing flights to
 Europe , shifting maintenance to  Southeast Asia  and planning a
new airline in Malaysia or  Singapore .  The strategy has come too late for some investors. The
 shares  plunged 35 percent in the past 12 months as Qantas
contended with Chinese and  Middle East  carriers and more than a
A$600 million ($644 million) rise in fuel costs. Moody’s
Investors Service downgraded the airline to its lowest
 investment grade  on Jan. 31, saying competition and  jet fuel 
prices will continue to weigh on earnings.  “They either have to come up with a business plan with
costs close to their competitors’ or they just slowly
contract,” said Andrew Sisson, managing director of  Franklin
Resources Inc. (BEN) ’s Balanced Equity Management, Qantas’s biggest
shareholder. “If you can fly people to  Kuala Lumpur  or
Singapore you’ve at least got a natural market to draw on, but
they won’t fly on you if you’re not price competitive.”  Lower Cost  Setting up an airline in an Asian hub would let Joyce hire
pilots and crew at a lower cost, and offer a greater choice of
connecting flights to compete with rivals such as  Singapore
Airlines Ltd. (SIA)  and  Cathay Pacific Airways Ltd. (293)  Personnel expenses
eat up 27 percent of sales at Qantas, against about 15 percent
at Singapore Air and  Hong Kong ’s Cathay Pacific. After
retreating from markets in Europe, where it’s losing out to
Emirates Airline and other state-backed Middle East carriers,
Joyce is betting Qantas’s international business on Asia.  “He has to get it right,” said Neil Hansford, chairman of
Sydney-based Strategic Aviation Solutions, which advises
airlines across the Asia-Pacific. “The Asian carriers aren’t
going to sit still. They will fight for every passenger Joyce
tries to get.”  Lawmakers, Unions  Qantas  rose  1.3 percent to A$1.56 in Sydney today compared
with the 0.3 percent advance in the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  Also fighting Joyce are lawmakers and unions who see the
new carrier as a ploy to shift jobs abroad and subvert 20-year-
old legislation aimed at keeping Qantas Australian based and
run. Proposed revisions to the  law  that seek to compel Qantas
and its Jetstar budget unit to do most maintenance in  Australia 
and to cap the growth of Asian affiliates “would strangle our
capacity to run our business,” Joyce told the Australian
Senate’s Rural Affairs and Transportation committee on Feb. 6.  “The purpose of the legislation is for Australia to have a
strong, global national carrier, but there are loopholes big
enough to fly an A380 through,” said Senator Nick Xenophon, who
proposed the amendments to the Qantas Sale Act. “There is
nothing to prevent Qantas shutting down its international routes
and replacing them with a low-cost business, and I think there
are real issues there for the national interest.”  A wave of strikes last year led Joyce to ground the Qantas
fleet in October for about two days, stranding 80,000 people and
forcing the regulator to intervene. Two of three unions are now
in binding arbitration that will prevent them taking action for
the lifetime of new contracts. Engineers signed a deal in
December allowing new jets to be maintained in  Asia .  Earnings Report  The stoppages and fuel costs probably drove first-half
earnings down 51 percent to A$117 million, according to the
median of four  analyst estimates  compiled by Bloomberg. Qantas
is due to report tomorrow.  Joyce is cutting routes to Europe and trimming cabin crew
to help staunch about $200 million in annual losses on
international flights. Still, six months after he first set out
plans for the new carrier, he hasn’t announced a deal.  “I get the sense that it’s taking longer than even
management were hoping,” said Russell Shaw, a transport analyst
at Macquarie Group Ltd. in Sydney.  Qantas has been slow to follow Asia’s growth, with seven
direct flights a week to mainland  China  against  Air China Ltd. (601111) 
and  China Southern Airlines Co. (1055) ’s more than 50. When the  flying
kangaroo  was first daubed on Qantas planes in 1947, more than
half of Australians were born in the U.K. That proportion has
halved, with Asians filling much of the gap, census data show.  Shrinking Share  The failure to adapt to changing demographics and rising
competition from Middle Eastern carriers has seen Qantas’s share
of arrivals slump to less than 20 percent from more than 35
percent a decade ago. The number of  passengers  flying to  London 
was little changed over the past decade, while those headed for
Beijing or Shanghai almost tripled.  “Asia will continue to play a larger part in the global
economy,” Joyce said in an interview. “There is nowhere like
it. It has massive untapped potential.”  Irish-born Joyce, 45, made his mark in Qantas with the 2004
start of the Jetstar discount carrier, which now accounts for
almost 20 percent of group sales. To expand overseas, he formed
Jetstar ventures in Singapore, Vietnam and  Japan , ceding
majority control to win flying rights from Asian governments.  “The thing with airline alliances is that you end up with
the partnerships that are possible, not with the ones that you’d
want,” said Mark Mackrell, a partner at  Norton White , a Sydney-
based  law firm  specializing in transportation.  Domestic Fight  To round out Joyce’s challenges, Qantas faces the biggest
assault on its domestic operations in a decade as  Virgin
Australia Holdings Ltd (VAH) . adds premium seats and lounges to escape
its budget roots. Business class fares slumped to their lowest
in 17 years as Qantas cut prices to defend its 90 percent share
of corporate travel inside the country.  Franklin’s Sisson is keeping faith with Qantas, adding more
than 16 million shares in September and October, regulatory
filings show. Franklin funds hold an 11 percent stake in the
airline, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg.  “The reason we’re shareholders in Qantas is they have a
very strong, viable Australian business,” he said.  Narrowing the cost gap and winning customers may still not
end long-haul losses on Qantas-branded flights, according to
Tony Webber, the carrier’s former chief economist. Middle East
and Asian rivals are often less focused on making money.  ‘Shareholder Driven’  “Some of these carriers have national-interest motivations
while Qantas is shareholder driven,” said Webber, who worked at
the airline for seven years before setting up a consultancy.
“Qantas can’t compete with that, ever.”  Pikes Wines’  Bentley uses Qantas for three-quarters of his
80-or-so domestic and international flights a year. He plans
more trips to Asia to meet rising demand in China, which
accounts for 20 percent of exports from zero five years ago.  “Asia is just getting bigger and bigger for us,” he said.
“If Qantas can give me more options they will get more of my
business.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Fenner in Melbourne at 
 rfenner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  