-- Treasuries Gain on January Retail Sales Pace, Greek Debt-Relief Deal Delay
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-02-14T22:04:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/treasuries-advance-after-january-u-s-retail-sales-grow-less-than-forecast.html
Treasuries rose, pushing 10-year
note yields to a one-week low, after a report showed retail
sales in January were weaker than forecast, renewing concern
consumer spending won’t power the economic recovery.  Yields fell for a third day as European finance ministers
postponed a meeting in Brussels to discuss  Greece ’s rescue. U.S.
retailers’ sales showed Americans took advantage of post-holiday
discounts, indicating households were frugal. The  Federal
Reserve  purchased $4.95 billion of notes today.  “We had the buyback, the Greek meeting postponed and a
disappointing retails sales number, all of which has given a
lift to the long end,” said  Scott Graham , head of government
bond trading at Bank of Montreal’s BMO Capital Markets unit in
 Chicago , one of the 21 Primary dealers that are required to bid
on the securities.  Yields on 10-year notes fell four basis points, or 0.04
percentage point, to 1.94 percent at 5 p.m. New York time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
securities maturing in February 2022 rose 11/32, or $3.44 per
$1,000 face amount, to 100 18/32. The yield reached the lowest
since Feb. 7.  U.S. 30-year bond yields fell three basis points to 3.09
percent, after reaching the least since Feb. 3.  Yield Differences  The difference between the yield on the two-year note and
the 10-year security, the so-called yield curve, dropped to 1.65
percentage points today, the least since Feb. 3. A narrowing
yield curve suggests investors anticipate slow economic growth
and inflation.  Treasury market volume dropped yesterday to the lowest
since Feb. 6. About $218.6 billion of Treasuries changed hands
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker, below
the one-year average of $275 billion.  “The flows are anemic,” said Paul Horrmann, a broker in
New York at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an interdealer
broker. “We are still stuck in a range.”  Bank of America Merrill Lynch’s MOVE index, which measures
price swings based on options, closed Feb. 13 at 78.8 basis
points, below the five-year average of 111.9 basis points. The
gauge on Feb. 2 touched 70.2 basis points, the lowest level
since July 2007.  Bond Losses  U.S. debt securities have fallen in 2012 on speculation
 Europe  will contain its sovereign-debt crisis and America’s
economic recovery will be sustained. Treasuries have lost 0.4
percent this year, according to a Bank of America Merrill Lynch
index. German bunds, perceived to be the euro region’s safest
government assets, have dropped 0.5 percent.  Euro-area finance ministers will discuss Greece on a
conference call tomorrow, Luxembourg Prime Minister  Jean-Claude
Juncker  said in an e-mailed statement. Juncker cited further
technical work to be carried out by Greece and the troika as
well as the lack of political assurances from Greek leaders as
reasons for not convening a meeting in Brussels.  Treasury yields advanced earlier as German investor
confidence rose in February to a 10-month high and  Italy ’s
borrowing costs dropped.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its German index of investor and analyst expectations,
which is designed to predict economic developments six months in
advance, rose this month to 5.4 from minus 21.6 in January.
That’s the highest since April 2011 and the third straight
increase. Economists forecast a gain to minus 11.8, according to
the median of 40 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Moody’s Rates  Moody’s Investors Service cut the credit ratings of six
European countries. Italian and Spanish borrowing costs plunged
to the lowest in at least 11 months at debt sales today as
investors ignored the downgrades.  Global growth will slow to 2.17 percent this year from 2.69
percent in 2011, according to Bloomberg News surveys of
economists. The  U.S. economy  may expand by 2.2 percent, while
the euro area contracts by 0.5 percent, surveys showed.  The 0.4 percent U.S. retail sales gain followed little
change in December that was initially reported as a 0.1 percent
increase, Commerce Department figures showed today. Last month’s
advance was half the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, reflecting an unexpected drop at auto dealers.
Excluding cars, demand climbed 0.7 percent, more than projected.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that the 8.3
percent January unemployment rate reported Feb. 3 understates
weakness in the labor market since some people are leaving the
workforce because they can’t find jobs, and others are taking
part-time work because they can’t find full-time employment.  The Fed purchased Treasuries due from February 2020 to
November 2021 today as part of a plan announced in September to
replace $400 billion of shorter maturities in its holdings with
longer-term debt to cap borrowing costs. The central bank last
month extended its pledge to keep rates near zero at least
through late 2014.  “The buybacks are taking out 90 percent of everything
that’s issued, and it continues,” said  Ray Remy , head of fixed
income in  New York  at Daiwa Capital Markets America Inc., a
primary dealer.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net ;
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  