-- Record Redemptions Looming as Akbank Costs Rise: Turkey Credit
-- B y   M a r k   B e n t l e y
-- 2012-02-14T10:44:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/record-redemptions-loom-amid-akbank-1-3-billion-loan-talks-turkey-credit.html
Turkish companies have a record 307
billion liras ($174 billion) of debt maturing this year just as
their domestic borrowing costs rise to the highest in almost
three years and HSBC Holdings Plc predicts foreign bank loans
will shrink.  Companies from Citigroup Inc.’s Akbank TAS to  Yapi & Kredi
Bankasi AS (YKBNK)  must repay an average 56 percent more local and
international obligations than in 2011, according to 386
earnings statements on Bloomberg. Lira loan rates climbed to an
average  15.7 percent  on Feb. 3 from 8.2 percent a year ago after
the currency fell the most in emerging markets last year,
central bank data show. The cost of overseas loans to Turkish
companies jumped to 125 basis points above the London Interbank
Offered Rate yesterday from 115 on Sept. 30. The rate for
Russian companies is 251 basis points, the data show.  “The cost of borrowing -- for those who can borrow -- has
increased in both lira and dollar terms,” Okan Akin, a
strategist at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc, said in a phone
interview from  London . Foreign-currency borrowers “will only be
able to refinance about 85 percent of debt coming due, meaning
there will be a shortfall that will need to be repaid or
refinanced in the domestic market at higher rates,” he said.  While central bank Governor Erdem Basci said last month
that Turkey is a “sound country” where banks will want to keep
providing funding, officials at  Fitch Ratings  and Moody’s
Investors Service said businesses may be vulnerable should
policy makers start lifting rates again, particularly smaller
companies. Basci decided to provide funding at 5.75 percent in
one-week repurchase auctions for banks on Jan. 10, reducing
lending rates he varied each day from as high as 12.5 percent.  Higher Rates  “The situation is a little bit critical for small and
medium-sized companies in 2012,” Cigdem Cerit, an analyst at
Fitch Ratings in Istanbul, said in a telephone interview
yesterday. “They may still get loans from Turkish banks but the
rates are somewhat higher and some companies may need to dip
into their own cash.”  Economists including Mert Yildiz at  Renaissance Capital  in
London estimate the  unemployment rate , which climbed to 9.1
percent in October from 8.8 percent the previous month, will
rise further in 2012 as companies scale back amid higher costs
and lower economic growth. The January manufacturing HSBC
purchase managers’ index, a snap-shot of business conditions for
manufacturers, declined for the third-straight month to 51.7 in
December, Markit Economics said on Feb. 1. A reading below 50
indicates a contraction.  Growth Risks  Akbank (AKBNK) , based in Istanbul,  Coca-Cola Icecek AS (CCOLA)  and  Turk
Telekomunikasyon AS (TTKOM) , the country’s biggest phone company, helped
push corporate borrowing to a record last year as the  economy 
grew 9.6 percent in the first nine months, second only to  China 
among the Group of 20 economies.  Now, the  International Monetary Fund  is predicting the
expansion will slow to 0.4 percent this year. Government yields
climbed more than in any emerging market in  Europe , the  Middle
East  and Africa in the past year, while the lira sank 18 percent
against the dollar in 2011, the most among 25 developing-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  Akbank, Turkey’s biggest lender by  market value , is in
talks with Charlotte, North Carolina-based Bank of America Corp.
to refinance a $1.3 billion loan at an annual rate of 145 basis
points over interbank rates, a jump from 110 basis points, or
1.1 percentage points, on its current debt, said a person with
knowledge of the plan who declined to be named because the terms
are private. An official for Akbank declined to comment because
the talks are confidential.  Foreign Borrowing  Chief Executive Officer Hakan Binbasgil told reporters on
Feb. 8 that Akbank, in which Turkey’s  Haci Omer Sabanci Holding
AS (SAHOL)  owns a majority and Citigroup a 20 percent stake, plans to
increase foreign borrowing this year from $10 billion in 2011.  Yapi & Kredi Bankasi, an Istanbul bank owned by Milan-based
 UniCredit SpA (UCG)  and  Koc Holding AS (KCHOL) , Turkey’s biggest group of
companies, needs to repay a $1 billion loan by May that has an
interest margin at 110 basis points above Libor including fees,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. The yield on Yapi & Kredi’s
$750 million of 5.1875 percent bonds due in 2015 has risen 273
basis points over  U.S. Treasuries  to 572 in the past year,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader. Yapi Kredi’s  investor
relations  department didn’t return phone calls and an e-mail
requesting comment via its public relations firm Arti Iletisim.  Debt Refinance  Ankara-based Turk Telekom, the country’s third-biggest
listed company by market value after Akbank and  Turkiye Garanti
Bankasi AS (GARAN) , is due to repay $608 million on a loan charging 375
basis points over Libor in December, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Turk Telekom is in talks with banks for a $600
million loan to refinance existing debt, a person with direct
knowledge of the deal told Bloomberg on condition of anonymity
last month because the talks are private. Abdullah Kaya, head of
investor relations, declined to comment on the company’s
borrowing plans.  Basci said borrowers will have no problems getting funding
as confidence in Turkey’s economy is increasing.  “Even if there is a serious problem with European banks,
other banks will still extend credit to Turkey because there’s
still plenty of cheap financing at about zero percent interest
rate in the world,” Basci told executives in the western city
of Bursa on Jan. 6. “They’ll come to a sound country, and
Turkey is a sound country so there are no issues.”  Yields (TRABNBM)  on two-year  government bonds  fell 232 basis points
this year, more than any other major emerging-market debt
tracked by Bloomberg. Yields on bonds tracked by Turk Ekonomi
Bankasi AS declined 1 basis point today to 9.21 percent, heading
for the lowest since October.  Lira Weakens  The lira, which rose 6.9 percent against the dollar this
year, weakened 0.3 percent to 1.7689 per dollar at 11:52 a.m.  The  extra yield  that investors demand to hold Turkey’s
dollar-denominated debt rather than U.S. Treasuries retreated 11
basis points to 355 yesterday, according to  JPMorgan Chase &
Co.’s EMBI Global index .  The cost to protect Turkish debt against non-payment for
five years using credit default swaps increased one basis point
today to 266, paring their decline this year to 11 basis points,
according to data provider CMA, which is owned by CME Group Inc.
and compiles prices quoted by dealers in the privately
negotiated market. The contracts pay the buyer face value in
exchange for the underlying securities or cash equivalent if the
issuer fails to comply with debt agreements.  Reserve Requirements  Borrowing costs in Turkey surged last year after Basci, who
was appointed governor of the  Central Bank  of the Republic of
Turkey on April 15, almost doubled average  interest rates  to
help stem the currency’s tumble and slow inflation. Consumer
price increases accelerated to 10.5 percent in January, more
than twice the central bank’s medium term goal.  Basci, 45, also raised banks’ reserve requirements to as
high as 16 percent of deposits from 8 percent to crimp lending
growth by banks to Turkish companies that he said was feeding
the record  current-account deficit . The gap surged to more than
10 percent of gross domestic product last year, as businesses
and consumers borrowed to fund purchases of imported goods and
machinery. ING Groep NV expects the deficit to fall to $72
billion this year as Turkey’s economic growth eases to 2.5
percent, the bank’s London-based economist Simon Quijano-Evans
said in an e-mail.  Highest Rates  Domestic corporate loan rates are the highest on average
since April 2009, rising a weekly 170 basis points to 15.7
percent on an annual basis in the week to Feb. 3, the latest
central bank figures show. They increased to as much as 23.4
percent a year in December 2008, after the collapse of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. froze global credit markets.  “European banks will incline toward lowering their
exposure more and more, so Turkish banks will have difficulties
renewing their syndicated loans that are coming due,” Ahmet
Erelcin, managing director for HSBC Holding’s Turkish unit, said
at a conference in Istanbul on Feb. 7. “Appetite and
availability of loans will be less and less.”  Turkish companies have 70 percent of their debt falling due
in two years or less, according to Martin Kohlhase, an analyst
at Moody’s Investors Service in Dubai. Annual interest on lira
loans may increase to between 17 percent and 20 percent by the
end of 2012 as the central bank is expected to lift rates again,
he said.  “Many Turkish corporates have a short-term funding profile
that leaves them vulnerable should the source of funding
disappear,” Kohlhase said.  -- With reporting by Louise Meeson and Patricia Kuo in London
and Ercan Ersoy in Istanbul. Editors: Gavin Serkin, Laura Zelenko  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Bentley in Istanbul at 
 mbentley3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at   gserkin@bloomberg.net  