-- Chinese Regulator Reviewing Application for Mainland’s First H-Share ETF
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-14T05:52:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/regulator-reviewing-e-fund-s-application-for-h-share-exchange-traded-fund.html
The  China Securities Regulatory
Commission (CSRZ)  is vetting an application from E Fund Management Co.
to start the mainland’s first exchange-traded fund tracking the
Hong Kong-listed shares of Chinese companies.  The application for the fund linked to the Hang Seng  China 
Enterprises Index was accepted on Feb. 8, according to data
 posted  on the securities regulator’s website yesterday. E Fund,
based in the southern city of Guangzhou, is China’s third-
largest asset management company with 126.2 billion yuan ($20
billion) of assets as of Sept. 30, according to Howbuy, a
Shanghai-based fund tracker.  Introducing new products may help bolster stock trading
turnover in China that has fallen to three-year lows as money
supply tightens and the economy slows. The nation’s foreign-
exchange reserves dropped in 2011 for the first time in more
than a decade. The exchange-traded fund linked to  Hong Kong 
stocks was part of a range of measures unveiled by Vice Premier
 Li Keqiang  on Aug. 17 to boost cross-border investment between
the mainland and the former British colony.  “It will be China’s first ETF fund investing in Hong
Kong’s stock markets,” Lu Huitian, an analyst at Howbuy,
said in a telephone interview today. “Mainland investors will
have more investment options as ETFs are very convenient for
them to buy and sell while it’s also definitely a boost to Hong
Kong stocks.”  ‘Through Train’  Plans to list ETFs tracking Hong Kong stocks were submitted
to the State Council and the securities regulator before last
month’s Lunar New Year holiday, the  Hong Kong Economic Times 
said on Feb. 6, citing an unidentified person. The State Council
may approve the proposals within a month, according to the
report.  China scrapped a plan in January 2010 to allow Chinese
nationals to buy Hong Kong stocks directly and instead expanded
a program under which Chinese institutions can invest in
overseas markets. The so-called “through-train” program for
Chinese individuals was unveiled by regulators in August 2007
and helped push the benchmark  Hang Seng Index  to a record high
that October.  Hang Seng Indexes Co. had been working with two fund
management companies to create funds tracking Hong Kong stocks
that would trade in China. The index provider is planning an
exchange-traded fund linked to the Hang Seng Index and one
following the Hang Seng China Enterprises Index, Vincent Kwan,
director and general manager of Hang Seng Indexes, said on Aug.
19.  Stock Slump  “The mainland listing of ETFs on Hong Kong stocks will
increase the demand for the underlying stocks,” Scott Sapp, a
spokesman for Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd., wrote in a
Feb. 7 e-mail. “We believe Hong Kong’s financial market,
including HKEx and its participants, will benefit from this
development.”  China is seeking to bolster its financial markets as growth
in the world’s second-biggest economy cools and foreign
investment moderates. The benchmark  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  has
slumped for two straight years. The average  value  of stock
traded on  Shanghai ’s stock exchange in the past 100 days fell to
$61.4 billion on Feb. 3, the lowest level since February 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It doesn’t hurt to have money coming in to help the
market,” Terrace Chum, the Hong Kong-based managing director of
greater China equities for Manulife Asset Management, which
oversees about $199 billion, said on Feb. 6. “This is good
timing if they do more at this moment.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Darren Boey at 
 dboey@bloomberg.net . 