-- Rehn Calls on Spain to Spell Out Deficit-Reduction Measures
-- B y   A n g e l i n e   B e n o i t
-- 2012-02-14T16:20:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/rehn-calls-on-spain-to-spell-out-deficit-reduction-measures-1-.html
European Union Economic and Monetary
Commissioner  Olli Rehn  urged  Spain  to spell out how it will cut
the budget deficit in 2012 after missing last year’s goals.  “When it comes to deficit reduction in 2012, the Spanish
authorities have clearly stated their commitment to restoring
sustainable public finances,” Rehn told reporters today in
Strasbourg,  France . “We expect the Spanish government to
substantiate the measures announced recently.”  Rehn said the EU wants Spain to “move quickly in the
preparation of the 2012 budget in order to meet fiscal targets
for this year” and prepare for 2013.  Spain had the  euro area ’s fourth-largest budget deficit in
2010 and failed to meet the target set by the EU in 2011. Prime
Minister  Mariano Rajoy  now has to nearly halve the shortfall in
one year to get the nation back on track while fighting a second
recession in two years.  Media reports that the EU is considering sanctions against
Spain are “incorrect and misleading,” Rehn said.  Rajoy, whose People’s Party government took over from the
Socialists in December, has said he’ll present a budget for 2012
after the EU’s growth forecast for Spain is released on Feb. 23.
He has increased taxes and reduced public spending to cut the
deficit by 15 billion euros ($20 billion).  Moody’s Investors Service yesterday said it is
“skeptical” the nation can trim the gap to 4.4 percent of
gross domestic product as pledged by Rajoy. Moody’s said it
expects the general government  budget deficit  to remain between
5.5 percent and 6 percent this year.  The adjustment Spain is faced with is “unprecedented”
Moody’s said, estimating the deficit must be reduced by around
40 billion euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angeline Benoit in Madrid  at 
 abenoit4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  