-- Retail Sales in U.S. Likely Rose in January
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-02-14T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-by-the-most-in-four-months.html
Sales at U.S. retailers probably
rose in January by the most in four months, led by growing
demand for autos, economists said before a report today.  The projected 0.8 percent increase would follow a 0.1
percent December  advance , according to the median  forecast  of 82
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. The price of imported
goods climbed and companies boosted stockpiles, other reports
may show.  Consumers may have waited for post-holiday discounts to
redeem gift cards as purchases at chains like  Target Corp. (TGT)  and
Limited Brands Inc. topped analysts’ forecasts last month.
Further gains in employment are needed to bolster wages and
underpin household confidence, ensuring that sales of more
expensive items can be sustained.  “We do see significant support from autos this time,”
said Sean Incremona, a senior economist at 4Cast Inc. in  New
York . “There can still be some support as we get fairly
resilient income gains that could keep spending at a fairly
decent clip.”  The Commerce Department will report the sales data at 8:30
a.m. in Washington. Economists’ estimates ranged from increases
of 0.3 percent to 2 percent.  Employers added 1 million workers to payrolls over the past
six months, according to Labor Department data. During that same
period, the  unemployment rate  dropped by 0.8 percentage point to
8.3 percent, the lowest level in three years.  Job growth means Americans may be less apprehensive about
making big-ticket purchases.  Auto Demand  Purchases (SAARTOT)  of cars and light trucks climbed to an annualized
rate of 14.1 million last month, the highest since the so-called
cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009 and the second-
strongest since May 2008, according to Autodata Corp. Sales
averaged 16.4 million in the two years before the last recession
began in December 2007.  The January gain came even as automakers reduced incentives
by 5.6 percent, or about $144 per vehicle sold, to $2,435 in
January,  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata said Jan. 31.  With the average age of cars and trucks rising to a record
10.8 years, analysts see pent-up demand boosting U.S. sales to a
third-straight annual gain in 2012, the longest streak since
sales peaked in 2000. An improving job market and available
credit may propel an increase in vehicle sales of more than 6
percent from 2011 to 13.6 million, the average of 18 analysts’
estimates.  Purchases  excluding  autos and gasoline in January climbed
0.5 percent, a three-month high, according to the survey median.  Chain Stores  Retail sales at stores open more than a year, excluding
Wal-Mart Stores Inc., increased 4.8 percent in January, compared
with a 3.5 percent advance in December, the  International
Council of Shopping Centers  said in a Feb. 2 statement.  Purchases at Columbus, Ohio-based Limited climbed 9
percent, beating the average projection for a 2.7 percent gain
from analysts surveyed by researcher Retail Metrics Inc. Target,
the second-largest U.S. discount retailer, posted a 4.3 percent
increase in same-store sales, topping the 2.4 percent estimate.  Shares of retailers are outperforming the broader stock
market. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index is
up 8.7 percent since the end of last year, compared with a 7.5
percent gain in the  S&P 500  during the same period.  To ensure enough goods are on hand, companies are
replenishing warehouses. Business inventories climbed 0.5
percent in December after a 0.3 percent gain the prior month,
according to the survey median ahead of figures from the
Commerce Department due at 10 a.m. in  Washington .  Pickup in Demand  Since November, “we’ve actually seen some improvements in
backlogs,” Thomas Kadien, senior vice president of consumer
packaging at International Paper Co., the world’s largest pulp
and paper producer, said on a Feb. 2 conference call. “For at
least the last three weeks, we’ve felt very good about the
demand. From a North American perspective, the softness is
behind us, and we feel much better about the first quarter.”  Another report today may show the cost of imported goods
climbed 0.3 percent in January after declining 0.1 percent the
prior month, economists said before Labor Department figures due
at 8:30 a.m. in Washington.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  