-- U.S. Retail Sales Trail Estimates as Automobile Purchases Decline: Economy
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-02-14T16:33:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/retail-sales-in-u-s-rose-in-january-as-shoppers-sought-post-holiday-sales.html
Sales at U.S. retailers rose less
than forecast in January, reflecting an unexpected drop in
purchases of automobiles.  The 0.4 percent  gain  reported by the Commerce Department
today in  Washington  was half the 0.8 percent rise median
forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. Purchases
excluding car dealers climbed 0.7 percent, more than projected
and the biggest gain since March.  Retailers like  Target Corp. (TGT)  and Limited Brands Inc. topped
analysts’ sales forecasts last month, when many companies
offered incentives to bring back shoppers after holiday sales
stagnated. Further gains in employment are needed to bolster
wages and underpin confidence, ensuring that demand can be
sustained.  “Consumers are being very picky at this point,” said Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at Janney Montgomery Scott
LLC in Philadelphia. “We saw aggressive retailer discounting
and sharp price cuts in the new year. It bodes poorly for
retailers’ margins.”  Purchases were also revised down 0.1 percentage point in
each of the prior two months -- to unchanged in December and a
0.3 percent rise in November. Stagnant yearend sales prompted
economists at Morgan Stanley to trim their tracking estimates
for  consumer spending  in the fourth quarter and first three
months of 2012.  The median forecast of 75 economists surveyed by Bloomberg
projected sales excluding cars would rise 0.5 percent. Estimates
ranged from little change to a 1.8 percent gain.  Stocks Decline  Stocks fell after the report. The Standard & Poor’s 500
Index decreased 0.3 percent to 1,348 at 11:32 a.m. in  New York .  Elsewhere, German investor confidence surged to a 10-month
high in February as global growth improved and  Europe ’s debt
crisis showed signs of abating.  The ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim
said its index of investor and analyst expectations, which aims
to predict economic developments six months in advance, rose to
5.4 from minus 21.6 in January. That’s the highest since April
and the third straight increase.  In  Japan , the central bank unexpectedly added 10 trillion
yen ($128 billion) to an asset-purchase program and set an
inflation goal after an economic slide fueled criticism it has
been slower to act than counterparts.  Business Inventories  Business  inventories  in the U.S. rose less than sales in
December, showing companies may keep restocking shelves and
warehouses early this year. The 0.4 percent increase in
stockpiles compared with a 0.7 percent jump in purchases that
was the biggest since July, Commerce Department figures showed
today.  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. rose 0.3 percent in
January, reflecting higher costs for automobiles and petroleum,
according to a report from the Labor Department today. It was
the second increase in the past six months, indicating little
pressure in prices from overseas.  Nine of 13 major retail categories showed gains last month,
led by a 2 percent jump at general merchandise stores, including
department stores, which was the biggest in five years.  Industry figures showed purchases at Columbus, Ohio-based
Limited climbed 9 percent, beating the average projection for a
2.7 percent gain from analysts surveyed by researcher Retail
Metrics Inc. Target, the second-largest U.S. discount retailer,
posted a 4.3 percent increase in same-store sales, topping the
2.4 percent estimate.  Auto Sales  Demand at auto dealers dropped 1.1 percent in January,
today’s report showed, the biggest decline since May. The
numbers ran counter to  industry figures  that showed sales
improved.  Purchases of cars and light trucks climbed to an annualized
rate of 14.1 million last month, the highest since the so-called
cash-for-clunkers program in August 2009 and the second-
strongest since May 2008, according to Autodata Corp. Sales
averaged 16.4 million in the two years before the last recession
began in December 2007.  The January gain came even as automakers reduced incentives
by 5.6 percent, or about $144 per vehicle sold, to $2,435 in
January,  Woodcliff Lake , New Jersey-based Autodata said Jan. 31.  With the average age of cars and trucks rising to a record
10.8 years, analysts see pent-up demand boosting U.S. sales to a
third-straight annual gain in 2012, the longest streak since
sales peaked in 2000. An improving job market and available
credit may propel an increase in vehicle sales of more than 6
percent from 2011 to 13.6 million, the average of 18 analysts’
estimates.  Industry Data  The government uses the industry data to calculate gross
domestic product, making the reported decrease in dealer demand
less significant.  Sales excluding autos, gasoline and building materials,
which render the figures used to calculate GDP, rose 0.7
percent, the most since September, after dropping 0.4 percent
the prior month.  The figures follow a report earlier this month that showed
improvement in the labor market may help sustain spending.
Employers added 243,000 jobs in January, the most since April,
and the  unemployment rate  dropped to a three-year low of 8.3
percent, according to the Labor Department.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  