-- BlackBerry Bumped as U.S. Procurement Agency Issues IPhones
-- B y   H u g o   M i l l e r
-- 2012-02-14T21:12:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/rim-dealt-another-blow-as-u-s-agency-issues-iphones-alongside-blackberrys.html
Research In Motion Ltd. (RIM) ’s once-
dominant position in  Washington  took another knock with the
decision by the U.S. government’s main procurement agency to
begin issuing iPhones alongside BlackBerrys.  The  General Services Administration , with 12,635 employees,
procures more than $70 billion worth of products and services
for other federal agencies a year. GSA staff may now request
 Apple Inc. (AAPL)  phones and devices running  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
software if they have applications that can help them work more
efficiently with customers like the  Departments of Justice and
Homeland Security , said Deborah Ruiz, a GSA spokeswoman. She
didn’t say when the change took effect.  The move highlights the challenge facing Thorsten Heins,
RIM’s new chief executive officer, who has vowed to rethink the
way the company markets and sells BlackBerrys to reverse
slumping demand. The policy change by GSA, a central provider of
products and services including communications equipment, may
make it easier for other federal agencies to also approve the
iPhone, said  Roger Entner , an analyst at Recon Analytics LLC.  “It’s the canary in the  coal mine  because now every
government body or institution can follow suit,” Entner, who is
based in Dedham,  Massachusetts , said in a phone interview.  RIM (RIMM)  said in an e-mailed statement it continues to work
closely with its more than 1 million government customers. The
company said the new BlackBerry 7 operating system has been
certified by the U.S. government’s National Institute of
Standards and Technology and its PlayBook device is the only
tablet certified for use by U.S. government agencies.  U.S. Plunge  RIM’s sales in the U.S. fell 45 percent last quarter as
consumers and businesses opted for iPhones or Android devices
for their better Web browsers and wider array of apps.  The U.S. decline is dragging down RIM’s global market share
even as sales in  emerging markets  like India and Indonesia
climb. RIM’s share of the worldwide smartphone market slid to
8.2 percent in the fourth quarter from 14 percent a year
earlier, while Apple’s share rose to 24 percent from 16 percent
in the same period, according to research firm IDC.  The sales drop has led to a 90 percent plunge in Waterloo,
Ontario-based RIM’s share price from its 2008 high. RIM  fell  2.2
percent to $14.57 at the close in  New York . Shares of Cupertino,
California-based Apple gained 1.4 percent to $509.46.  Approved Devices  The  U.S. National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
said last week it would support BlackBerrys until May and then
begin replacing them with iPhones. Apple’s devices can be
integrated into its current infrastructure more cheaply than
paying for a dedicated BlackBerry server, said Joe Klimavicz,
chief information officer of the the weather, ocean and
fisheries research agency with 13,000 workers.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s second-largest oilfield-
services provider, said last week it will phase out 4,500
BlackBerrys and switch to the iPhone because the Apple device
does a better job of supporting internal company applications
like software to monitor well construction.  The GSA, which also manages office buildings for more than
a million federal employees across the U.S., picks suppliers and
negotiates prices for more than 12 million products and services
ranging from consulting contracts to office supplies and
laboratory equipment.  The Washington-based agency will continue to issue
BlackBerrys alongside other devices and allow employees to
choose their own device from an approved list, Ruiz said. The
agency has no plans to support employees’ own devices, a policy
adopted by some companies seeking to reduce costs.  Ruiz didn’t say how many smartphones the GSA issues to
employees or what the breakdown is by type of device.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hugo Miller in Toronto at 
 hugomiller@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  