-- Trucking Industry Challenges U.S. on Driver Rest Rules
-- B y   J e f f   P l u n g i s
-- 2012-02-14T23:30:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/trucking-industry-to-challenge-u-s-on-rules-for-driver-time-off.html
The largest U.S. trucking group
filed a legal challenge to Transportation Department driver-
fatigue rules that the industry says focus on the wrong safety
problems and don’t meet legal requirements.  The American Trucking Associations, based in Arlington,
 Virginia , filed a petition today challenging the regulation at
the  U.S. Court of Appeals  in  Washington .  “We cannot allow this rulemaking, which was fueled by
changed assumptions and analyses that do not meet the required
legal standards, to remain unchallenged,”  Bill Graves ,
president and chief executive officer of the American Trucking
Associations, based in Arlington, Virginia, said in a statement
today.  While the final rule  maintained an 11-hour limit  on
truckers’ driving day, instead of shortening it to 10 hours as
proposed, the industry objects to a requirement of a 34-hour
rest period each week that would require drivers to be off two
consecutive nights, said Sean McNally, a spokesman for the
trucking group.  Many more fatalities and injuries are caused by speeding
than fatigue, making the department’s focus on driving hours
misplaced, the group said in its statement. The industry
supports regulations that would require installation of speed-
limiting devices on trucks, the group said.  Restart Period  Werner Enterprises Inc. (WERN)  and C.R. England are among trucking
companies that have objected to a government requirement that
the weekly time off include the periods between 1 a.m. and 5
a.m. on two consecutive days. Trucking companies describe the
rest as a restart because it resets drivers’ weekly limits of
time on duty.  The trucking regulator  underestimated the cost  of the
restart requirement, McNally said. It will reduce flexibility
and may undermine safety by forcing drivers onto the road during
rush hour, he said.  The group cited the Hobbs Act, a U.S. law that establishes
the jurisdiction of the D.C. court of appeals.  The original proposal by the Federal Motor Carrier Safety
Administration required two 12 a.m. to 6 a.m. rest periods
during the restart. Groups such as Advocates for Highway and
Auto Safety had argued that loopholes in previous rules let
drivers average 82 hours of work in seven days when they were
supposed to be limited to 60 hours.  11 Hours  The trucking regulator is also facing criticisms from
safety groups and the International Brotherhood of Teamsters
union for sticking with the 11-hour driving maximum. The
government was sued in 2003, 2006 and 2009 for allowing 11-hour
driving shifts. The third lawsuit was settled with an agreement
that FMCSA would redo the regulation.  There were 3,675 truck-related fatalities in 2010, up 8.7
percent from 3,380 in 2009, according to preliminary data from
the  National Highway Traffic Safety Administration . As recently
as 2006, there were 5,027 fatalities.  The hours-of-service rule as proposed in December 2010 was
one of seven regulations President  Barack Obama ’s administration
said would cost companies at least $1 billion. Trucking
companies opposed it, saying the shorter hours would force them
to rework routes and hire more drivers.  The final regulation, which takes effect July 1, 2013, has
annual costs of about $470 million and benefits of around $630
million, the Transportation Department said in a statement
today.  Justin Nisly, a Transportation Department spokesman, didn’t
immediately respond to an e-mail seeking comment on the filing.  The case is American Trucking Associations v. Federal Motor
Carrier Safety Administration, 12-1092, U.S. Court of Appeals
for the  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Plungis in Washington at 
 jplungis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  