-- Indonesian Rupiah Weakens on European Downgrades; Bonds Advance
-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   Y u d i t h   H o
-- 2012-02-14T08:40:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/rupiah-weakens-on-european-downgrades-bonds-little-changed.html
Indonesia ’s rupiah fell after
Moody’s Investors Service warned that the U.K. and  France  may
lose their top credit ratings after downgrading six European
nations including Italy, Spain and  Portugal . Bonds gained.  The rupiah extended this month’s loss to 0.6 percent as
overseas investors sold $147 million more local stocks than they
bought, paring net purchases this year to $122 million, exchange
data show. Moody’s revised its outlook on the U.K. and France’s
ratings to “negative” yesterday.  “The near-term volatility is the result of the situation
in  Europe ,” said Saktiandi Supaat, head of foreign-exchange
research at Malayan Banking Bhd. in Singapore. “Going forward,
it looks like there will be strong support from the resilient
domestic market” because the economy remains strong, he said.  The rupiah dropped 0.6 percent to 9,056 per dollar as of
3:20 p.m. in Jakarta, according to prices from local banks
compiled by Bloomberg. Analysts in a Bloomberg News survey
predict the currency will decline a further 0.5 percent to 9,100
by the end of this quarter.  Southeast Asia ’s largest economy grew 6.5 percent last year
in the biggest gain since before the Asian financial crisis.
Indonesia will expand 6.5 percent in the first quarter from a
year earlier, the central bank forecast on Feb. 9.  The government will probably lower its 2012 economic
expansion target from 6.7 percent as Europe’s debt crisis clouds
global economic prospects, Vice Finance Minister Anny Ratnawati
said today in Jakarta. She didn’t say what the new target will
be.  The yield on the 7 percent bonds due May 2022 declined six
basis points, or 0.06 percentage point, to 5.11 percent,
according to midday prices from the Inter Dealer Market
Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in  Singapore  at 
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
Yudith Ho in Singapore at 
 yho35@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net  