-- S&P’s Reward Awaits One-Time Sick Man of Asia: William Pesek
-- B y   W i l l i a m   P e s e k
-- 2012-02-14T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/s-p-s-reward-awaits-one-time-sick-man-of-asia-commentary-by-william-pesek.html
It is often a fool’s errand to
predict turning points in the more erratic Asian economies.
Nowhere is that truer than the  Philippines , whose greatest
consistency seems to be disappointing the optimists.  With  Europe  sliding, America limping, Japan shrinking and
the once-unstoppable China slowing, it’s anyone’s guess where
the Philippines might be in three years. At the risk of looking
foolish in, say, 2015, I think it will be in a far better
financial place than it has been in a decade.  My faith rests on four things that  Benigno Aquino  has done
since assuming the presidency in June 2010. These were moves
that mark a keen understanding of what ails Asia’s 12th-biggest
economy and flashes of courage that were absent in his three
predecessors.  First, a nuanced focus on the economy.  Gloria Arroyo  seemed
infatuated with raising gross domestic product during her tenure
from 2001 to 2010. It was just talk. Arroyo, like  Joseph Estrada 
(1998-2001) before her, was all about the cult of GDP that
beguiles many Asian leaders. This obsession masks big cracks in
economies with headline-grabbing growth rates that serve mainly
to deflect political opposition.  One in four  Filipinos (PGDYTY)  lives on less than $1.25 a day. The
Occupy Wall Street movement harps on the 1 percent. In the
Philippines, it’s more like the 0.01 percent of politically
connected citizens who reap the spoils of growth.  Moving Swiftly  Aquino wants to tighten mining rules, cut tax breaks and
review contracts to make sure average Filipinos benefit from
natural resources and limit the industry’s impact on the
environment. He is upgrading infrastructure to attract foreign
investment that would create jobs.  The president moved swiftly to get a handle on the long-
term budget deficit. That’s a vital step to reducing the waste
and graft at the root of the nation’s dysfunction, but also
winning the investment-grade  credit rating  that would accelerate
the process.  Second, attacking corruption. Aquino, 52, is both the right
guy and the wrong one to fight this battle. His mother was
former President  Corazon Aquino  (1986-1992), who made up with
integrity what she lacked in governing skills. She was the moral
compass after two decades under dictator  Ferdinand Marcos . The
problem is that the Aquinos are among the major land-owning
families that benefit from the extreme concentration of wealth.  Marcos’s Billions  Benigno Aquino has had no qualms in going after the
billions that watchdog groups say Marcos looted. Marcos is the
man Aquino’s opposition-leader father was trying to unseat when
he was assassinated in 1983. The Marcos family has been staging
a political comeback in recent years. Marcos’s wife, Imelda, she
of the infamously large shoe collection, now sits in the  House
of Representatives .  The president is holding Arroyo, her husband and her son to
account for alleged corruption. Aquino also is working to oust
Supreme Court Chief Justice Renato Corona, a last-minute Arroyo
appointee, who faces accusations that include favoring Arroyo in
court decisions. While some in  Manila  smell an Aquino-versus-
Arroyo family feud, I sense a bold effort to clean up the
nation’s tainted judiciary.  Third, addressing overpopulation. The nation’s ranks are
outgrowing the number of good-paying  jobs  being created, forcing
more and more Filipinos to work overseas. Any talk of family
planning is suppressed by the powerful Catholic Church, which is
too politically active for comfort. Aquino risked the Vatican’s
wrath with a “responsible parenthood” bill. Let’s hope more
such steps are on the way.  Exporting People  The  remittances  that expatriate Filipinos send home boosts
growth in the short run. But the money does little to build a
foundation for organic growth and is a dangerous addiction that
must be kicked. Gaining control of the birthrate is a key part
of the solution.  Fourth, a gutsy stance toward  China . In Asia, it is
striking to hear what politicians say publicly about China’s
growing dominance and what they really think. No one wants to
anger Asia’s nascent military superpower or offend the biggest
customer for their exports. Aquino is risking just that as he
demands fairness in China’s claims to disputed islands in the
 South China Sea  and cozies up to the U.S.  The Philippines is among a handful of nations claiming the
resource-rich Spratly Islands, along with Malaysia, Vietnam,
Brunei and China. Aquino refuses to bow to China’s demands,
something that has enraged Beijing and prompted calls to punish
the Philippines economically.  Balancing Act  China’s rise poses a dilemma for Asian leaders. Aquino is
showing  Asia  there’s scope for approaching China as a peer,
rather than a subordinate.  Of course, the  Philippines (PHLFUDRT)  has demonstrated a unique
ability to scuttle the most virtuous of cycles. All too often,
its eccentricities pop up to remind investors why it’s often
called the “Sick Man of Asia.” This track record is a big
reason the Philippines is rated BB by Standard & Poor’s and Ba2
by Moody’s Investors Service. Both ratings are the second-
highest for  junk bonds .  Credit raters are perhaps too busy downgrading the top 10
economies to reward progress in the smaller ones. Investors who
act in anticipation of Philippine upgrades are unlikely to
regret it. Sometimes, foolishness has its benefits.  (William Pesek is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
William Pesek in Tokyo at 
 wpesek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  