-- San Francisco Sues U.S. for Enforcement Failure in Explosion
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-02-14T23:26:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/san-francisco-sues-u-s-for-enforcement-failure-in-explosion-2-.html
San Francisco sued a federal agency
for failing to enforce safety standards before the 2010
explosion of a  PG&E Corp. (PCG)  gas line in San Bruno,  California ,
that killed eight people.  The lawsuit, filed today in federal court in San Francisco,
claims the  U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration  ignored safety standards for more than 10 years
before the explosion, City Attorney Dennis Herrera said in an
e-mailed statement today.  “One of the most troubling findings to emerge in the 18
months since the San Bruno tragedy is that regulators were
either asleep at the switch or far too cozy with the industry
they’re supposed to regulate,” Herrera said in the statement.  The U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration, which is part of the U.S. Transportation
Department, “continues to flout recommendations” from the
 National Transportation Safety Board , which faulted PG&E and
inadequate governmental enforcement for the explosion, Herrera
said. The suit seeks a court order requiring the agency to
enforce gas pipeline standards, Herrera said.  The  U.S. Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety
Administration  is “committed to its core responsibility to
protect people and the environment” and “devoted hundreds of
hours of staff support and technical expertise agency” to
understanding the San Bruno explosion, spokeswoman Jeannie
Layson said in an e-mailed statement.  ‘Common Responsibility’  The agency will work with California and San Francisco
officials, who “share a common responsibility to improve
pipeline safety,” Layson said.  A California Public Utilities Commission report last month
determined that PG&E’s violations of state and federal laws
caused the natural-gas pipeline explosion that destroyed 38
homes. The commission has yet to vote on the report. PG&E said
in a statement on Jan. 12 that “past gas operations practices
were not what they should have been.”  In August, the transportation safety board determined that
San Francisco-based PG&E’s inadequate quality controls coupled
with deficient company management led to the explosion.  The case is City and County of  San Francisco  v. U.S.
Department of Transportation, 12-cv-0711, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of California (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in San Francisco at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 