-- Santorum Challenge Is Romney’s Toughest One Yet: Ramesh Ponnuru
-- B y   R a m e s h   P o n n u r u
-- 2012-02-14T00:00:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/santorum-challenge-is-romney-s-toughest-one-yet-ramesh-ponnuru.html
The latest not-Romney is the
strongest one yet.  Mitt Romney  has beaten back challenges from
Rick Perry,  Herman Cain  and  Newt Gingrich  in succession.  But in  Rick Santorum  he faces a rival for the Republican
presidential nomination who lacks those candidates’ glaring
flaws and has some notable advantages over him.  On paper, the strongest challenger to Romney in the
Republican field would have been former Minnesota Governor  Tim Pawlenty . Like Romney, Pawlenty was a governor of a blue state;
unlike Romney, he won re-election there. His governorship
featured nothing as objectionable for Republican primary voters
as the health-care law Romney signed in Massachusetts. But
Romney never had to face Pawlenty as his principal rival,
because he dropped out in August after losing the Iowa straw
poll.  Texas Governor  Rick Perry  entered the race the same weekend
as Pawlenty left it, and briefly led the national polls. Support
from party conservatives and a strong record as governor of one
of the largest states could have made him a strong contender,
too -- until he opened his mouth. Republicans stopped supporting
him both because they disagreed with his relatively soft-line
position on immigration and because they worried that in any
debates with President  Barack Obama  he would defeat himself.  Cain, a former Godfather’s Pizza Inc. chief executive
officer, led the polls briefly, too. But even before a series of
allegations of sexual harassment and adultery became news, he
was showing himself to be ignorant of large areas of public
life. He didn’t know the names of foreign leaders, his own
position on abortion or the details of his own 9-9-9  tax plan .  Former House Speaker Gingrich had two surges in the polls -
- followed by two collapses as Republicans focused on his
grandiosity, indiscipline, serial adultery and persistent
unpopularity with the public at large.  Leading Challenger  Now Santorum, a former two-term senator from  Pennsylvania ,
has become the leading challenger to Romney by virtue of winning
caucuses in Iowa, Minnesota and  Colorado , and a non-binding
primary in  Missouri . He won’t be as easy for Romney to dispatch.  Unlike Perry, Santorum is articulate. Unlike Cain, he has
political experience and knowledge of public policy. Unlike
Gingrich, he has a personal life that seems to be above
reproach. Romney has no advantage over Santorum in any of these
respects.  Romney has cited his victory in a statewide election in a
blue state to make the case that he can appeal beyond the
party’s base. That’s something neither Perry nor Cain nor
Gingrich could say. Santorum, on the other hand, won statewide
in  Pennsylvania (BEESPA) , which hasn’t voted for a Republican
presidential candidate in 24 years. And he did it twice.  Santorum’s strengths have left Romney resorting to weak
attacks. Romney has pointed out that Santorum, like most
Republicans who served in the Senate with him, supported such
big-spending initiatives as the expansion of Medicare to cover
 prescription drugs . But Romney’s own health-care law in
 Massachusetts  undercuts any attempt to portray other Republicans
as soft on big government.  More recently Romney has gone after Santorum for having
supported earmarks. But Santorum no longer supports them. If
having previously taken positions that conservatives dislike
disqualifies a candidate for the Republican nomination, Romney
might as well quit the race now: His past liberal positions
easily outnumber Santorum’s.  Romney is also attacking Santorum for having repeatedly
voted to raise the  debt ceiling , again like most Republicans.
Both men, however, take the same ( absurd ) position on the debt
ceiling now: It shouldn’t be increased until two-thirds of the
House and two-thirds of the Senate vote for a constitutional
amendment that caps federal spending. Romney’s criticism of
Santorum may not move voters who have no reason to believe
either of them on this issue.  Electability Argument  At some point, Romney will probably turn to the
electability argument. He has executive experience, which voters
seem to value but Santorum lacks. Santorum’s re-election defeat
in 2006 also haunts his candidacy. It was a tough year for
Republicans, but the size of Santorum’s loss --  18 percentage
points  -- suggests that Pennsylvanians were responding to
something about him, not just the national climate.  The electability strategy has drawbacks, too. Republicans
have objections to Romney’s record as an executive, and they
have doubts about his electability. Santorum has a more
appealing biography than Romney: He didn’t grow up as Richie
Rich. And Romney won’t win primary votes by saying that Santorum
would come across as a social-issues zealot to the wider public,
even if it’s true.  Romney is still in the lead. He’s ahead of Santorum in
 national polls ; he has won more delegates; he has much more
money; and he remains the only Republican candidate running a
national campaign. For the first time, though, he has something
else as well: a strong opponent.  (Ramesh Ponnuru is a Bloomberg View columnist and a senior
editor at National Review. The opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this article:
Ramesh Ponnuru at  rponnuru@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net  