-- Santorum’s Electability Pitch Undermined by 2006 Senate Re-Election Loss
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-02-14T17:44:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/santorum-pitch-undermined-by-senate-loss.html
Rick Santorum , the former senator
who is surging in the Republican presidential race, often says
he’s the only candidate in the contest “that has actually won a
swing state.”  Yet six years ago, as he sought a third Senate term in
Pennsylvania, Santorum proved he can also lose in such a
politically competitive state -- and lose big.  Santorum’s last race -- an 18 percentage point defeat in
2006 -- raises questions about his appeal to independent voters
who could help decide the national election in November, as well
as to Republicans who will determine who gets the party’s
nomination.  Santorum’s loss was “the largest defeat by a Republican
United States senator seeking election or re-election in modern
Pennsylvania history,” said G.  Terry Madonna , a and public
affairs professor at Franklin & Marshall College in Lancaster,
Pennsylvania and director of the school’s poll.  “Santorum was putting an emphasis on the cultural issues,
which didn’t sit well with independent, suburban swing voters in
this state,” Madonna said.  Poll Results  Opposition to gay marriage and abortion rights do have
appeal in Republican primaries, and have contributed to
Santorum’s recent rise. A Pew Research Center for the People and
the Press  poll  of Republican and Republican-leaning voters
conducted Feb. 8-12 and released yesterday found Santorum edging
out Romney for the nomination, with support from 30 percent
compared with 28 percent for the former Massachusetts governor.
Santorum trailed Romney by 17 points in a comparable poll a
month ago.  Santorum’s 2006 loss came after he was accused by Democrats
of being hypocritical for moving his family to suburban
 Virginia , yet still claiming a property tax deduction and
tuition reimbursement in Pennsylvania. The school district where
his Penn Hills home was located paid $55,000 to reimburse the
online education of his children through the state’s Cyber
Charter School program, according to the Pittsburgh Post-
Gazette. The state repaid the district in a legal settlement
after a Democratic school board member challenged the
reimbursement.  It was an issue that resonated with voters and echoed
charges Santorum, 53, raised when he won his initial race for
the U.S. House in 1990 by attacking his opponent for having
moved to Virginia and lost touch with Pennsylvanians.  ‘Hypocrisy’  Bob Casey , Santorum’s 2006 Democratic opponent and the son
of a former Pennsylvania governor, said at a general-election
debate that “this issue is as much about hypocrisy as it is
about residency.”  Casey, 51, is seeking his second term this year.  Santorum’s political image was also a factor in his
unsuccessful campaign.  After starting his career as a fiscal conservative who
emphasized lower taxes and government spending, Santorum had by
2006 become as well known for his opposition to abortion and gay
marriage.  He caused a stir in 2003 when, during an interview with the
 Associated Press , he made graphic comments while discussing his
views about homosexual acts. He said they were wrong, along with
“other, what I would consider to be, acts outside of
traditional heterosexual relationships.”  “In every society, the definition of marriage has not
ever, to my knowledge, included homosexuality,” Santorum said
in the April 7, 2003 interview, according to a transcript
released by the AP. “That’s not to pick on homosexuality. It’s
not, you know, man on child, man on dog, or whatever the case
may be.”  Views on Family  Santorum had also attracted attention with his 2005 book
“It Takes a Family” -- a literary rebuttal of former first
lady  Hillary Clinton ’s book “It Takes a Village” -- in which
he argued that the government should promote the family.  “The radical feminists succeeded in undermining the
traditional family and convincing women that professional
accomplishments are the key to happiness,” Santorum wrote, in a
passage that was interpreted by some critics as a suggestion
that women shouldn’t work.  Casey used the point against Santorum in his campaign,
running a television advertisement featuring a woman saying
Santorum should come to her house and explain to her and her
husband how they could survive on a single income. Santorum has
since said his point was that society should value the time
mothers spend at home as much as their time at work -- and that
the same goes for fathers.  Casey also opposes abortion rights, so that issue didn’t
offer a clear dividing line between the two.  Grim Political Climate  Santorum and his allies say his 2006 defeat had less to do
with his personal or political liabilities and more to do with a
grim environment for Republicans, suffering by association with
then-President  George W. Bush .  Bush’s Gallup approval rating was 36 percent, compared to
56 percent disapproval, on Election Day, amid widespread
discontent about the  Iraq war . When that dynamic combined with
low turnout, the  Republican Party  suffered a half-dozen Senate
losses -- and control of the chamber. Santorum lost by the
largest margin, followed by Senator Mike DeWine in nearby  Ohio ,
who was beaten by 12 points. The other Republican incumbents
were defeated by margins of less than 10 percent.  “I lost an election in the worst election year for
Republicans in the history of our state,” Santorum told  CNN  on
Jan. 2.  Campaign Successes  Drew Cantor, a former aide at the Republican Conference, a
Senate group that helps develop political messages, said
Santorum’s victories in two House races in “heavily Democratic
districts,” along with his 1994 and 2000 Senate race wins --the
second in a year when Bush lost the state -- “say far more
about Rick Santorum and his ability to connect with voters of
all stripes than anything.”  “One race does not a record make, and every campaign Rick
has waged has resulted in success other than 2006, a disastrous
political cycle” for Republicans, Cantor said.  Democratic strategists argue it was Santorum himself --more
than Republicans broadly -- that  Pennsylvania  voters repudiated.  “Some of the reasons that he’s been so popular among the
conservative base are some of the same reasons he sort of wore
out his welcome in Pennsylvania,” said Charlie Lyons, a
Harrisburg-based former Senate aide and adviser to Casey. “The
Democratic wave might have contributed to the margin of victory,
but in my view, it didn’t contribute to the fact that he lost,
because he started out behind and could never catch up.”  Demographic Group Losses  In the end, Santorum lost among most demographic groups
except born-again or evangelical Christians, and did
particularly poorly among women, who made up more than half the
electorate and voted for Casey by a margin of 61 percent to 39
percent for Santorum.  Yesterday’s Pew poll shows Santorum running behind
President  Barack Obama  in a head-to-head matchup, 53 percent to
44 percent. Obama leads Romney in the poll, 52 percent to 44
percent.  “The impression that people have -- the moderate and swing
voters have -- is that he’s too conservative for them, said
 Andrew Kohut , president of the Pew Research Center. “In a
general election, I haven’t seen any poll, anywhere that’s shown
Santorum matching up well against Obama.”  That includes in his home state of Pennsylvania. A
Pittsburgh Tribune-Review/WPXI-TV  poll  conducted Feb. 2-6 found
Obama beating Santorum there, 47 percent to 43 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  