-- Sarkozy to Seek 2nd Term Playing Crisis Card
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   G r e g o r y   V i s c u s i
-- 2012-02-15T20:12:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/sarkozy-to-seek-french-re-election-playing-his-euro-crisis-leadership-card.html
President  Nicolas Sarkozy  said he’ll
seek a second term, pledging to focus on fighting unemployment
and seeing France through Europe’s financial crisis.  “If I’ve decided to run it’s because I’ve got things to
say, I have propositions for the French,” he said today on TF1
television. “Can you imagine a captain in this storm saying ‘I’m
tired, I’m pulling out?’”  Sarkozy, 57, has joined with Germany’s  Angela Merkel  to
find an exit from the economic slump caused by the region’s debt
crisis that began more than two years ago in Greece. With 68
days to go before the first round of voting, Sarkozy’s 36
percent approval rating makes him France’s  most unpopular 
incumbent president.  Faced with French joblessness at a 12-year high, Sarkozy
said his priorities will include training for the unemployed and
cutting  government spending . He said he would call a referendum
on forcing all long-term unemployed people on state assistance
to sign up for job training.  “We don’t want a society where when you lose your job you
live in a trailer home, like in the U.S.,” he said. “But it’s
only thanks to the charges paid by those with jobs that we can
pay for our social protections. There are rights, but at the
same time there are obligations.”  The first round of French elections will be held on April
22, with the top two candidates facing off May 6.  Trailing Hollande  Trailing in the polls behind Socialist candidate  Francois Hollande , a lawmaker from central  France  and former party chief
who has never held a Cabinet post, Sarkozy risks becoming the
eighth euro-area leader to be ousted since 2010, following those
in Ireland,  Portugal , Greece,  Italy ,  Spain , Slovenia and
Slovakia. A defeat would make him the second French president
after Valery Giscard D’Estaing to lose a re-election bid.  “Sarkozy has to stress his presidential standing, that
he’s one of two European leaders leading the response to the
euro crisis,” William Keylor, a professor of modern French
history at  Boston University , said in a phone interview.
“Hollande has no international stature at all.”  The president also turned to a formula that served him well
in the 2007 elections, courting the partisans of the National
Front, the nationalist party of Marine Le Pen. Sarkozy today
criticized what he said were lax Socialist proposals on
immigration, saying it’s not “reasonable” to regularize all
illegal immigrants.  ‘Fine Line’  “Sarkozy has to tread a very fine line,” Keylor said.
“On his right he has a very invigorated National Front so he
has to try to win back some of those votes. But he’s up against
a moderate Socialist so he can’t scare the center.”  Hollande has a 5.5-point lead over Sarkozy in the first
round and would get 57.5 percent against 42.5 in the second
round, according to a poll published Feb. 9 by Ifop.  Sarkozy has trailed Hollande, 57, in every poll since the
Socialist declared his bid in March, with a gap as wide as 20
percentage points. Le Pen, the daughter of Jean-Marie Le Pen,
who made it to the second round in 2002, is running third. The
race will have 38 declared first-round candidates. A final list
will be published between March 19 and 21.  At the start of his first term, Sarkozy was France’s most
popular leader since General  Charles de Gaulle , World War II
hero and founder of the Fifth Republic.  A lawyer by training, Sarkozy took office pledging to make
a break from the past, instilling a work-hard-get-rich ethos in
a country that has an uneasy relationship with wealth.  Sarkozy’s Record  He weakened the 35-hour workweek instituted by the
Socialist government of Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, limited
taxes on France’s wealthiest and let universities forge
partnerships with businesses. Sarkozy also implemented a legal
minimum service for public transport, including air-traffic
controllers, train and bus drivers and cut military costs,
closing 83 defense sites.  To reduce the government’s budget deficit, he pushed
through a two-year increase in the  retirement age  to 62 and cut
business taxes to encourage investment.  “When Sarkozy was elected, he talked a lot about
purchasing power and working more to earn more,” said  Bruno Cautres , an analyst at Cevipof, a political research center in
Paris. “But people haven’t seen their situation improve.”  His efforts were stymied by the global economic crisis that
took hold almost immediately after he took office. His mandate
began on May 16, 2007, three months before  Europe  started coping
with the fallout from the U.S. subprime crisis. That was
followed by the emergence in 2009 of Europe’s debt crisis.  Economic Woes  Standard & Poor’s  stripped France of its AAA credit
rating for the first time on Jan. 13, saying European policy
makers hadn’t done enough to address the “systemic stresses in
the euro zone.” This week, Moody’s Investors Service said it
may downgrade France’s top Aaa rating.  Although the markets shrugged off the S&P cut, it has hurt
Sarkozy’s credibility. His leadership has become a harder sell
even though France has weathered the economic malaise better
than countries such as Spain, with its 23 percent unemployment.  “The French economy isn’t doing as badly as  Greece  or
Spain, but growth is very anemic,” said Boston University’s
Keylor. “When the economy is bad, it trumps all other issues
and the people in power are held responsible.”  France’s economy has slumped, with jobless claims jumping
by 5.6 percent last year to a 12-year high of 2.87 million. Its
debt has risen to 1.69 trillion euros, or 85.3 percent of gross
domestic product, from 64.2 percent just before Sarkozy was
elected. France’s trade deficit was a record 69.6 billion euros
last year, up from 42.5 billion euros in 2007.  German Ties  To revive growth and jobs, Sarkozy last month announced
measures, including an unpopular increase in the country’s
value-added-tax to compensate for cuts in labor charges,
emulating German efforts in the past decade.  Sarkozy has forged stronger ties with Merkel to navigate
the region through the debt crisis. Over the last two years, the
two have held dozens of meetings. Merkel this month said she
supports the French president “at every level.”  Hollande, meanwhile, is critical of the austerity plans
advocated by  Germany , saying they stifle growth. He has vowed to
renegotiate a German-inspired treaty tightening budget rules
endorsed by 25 European Union leaders last month.  “There are two things that appear to be scaring investors
about the prospects of a Hollande victory: what he’s saying and
the implications for the Paris-Bonn axis,”  Marc Chandler ,
global head of currency strategy at Brown Brothers Harriman in
 New York , wrote in a note this week.  ‘Promising Dreams’  Sarkozy today took a swipe at Hollande’s plan to hire more
teachers, saying: “Is it reasonable in the state we are in to
say we can hire 60,000 civil servants? Promising dreams always
leads to nightmares. I want to talk honestly to the French about
the world we are in.”  With about two months before the first round of the
elections, Sarkozy has his work cut out for him, said Boston
University’s Keylor.  “All the polls show that he’s behind, and the French
election campaign is so short that he can’t rely on some event
to rally his support,” he said. “It would be a surprise if he
pulls it off.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  