-- Scene Last Night: Koch, Placido, Estefan Toast Adrienne Arsht
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-02-14T16:10:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/scene-last-night-koch-placido-podesta-estefan-celebrate-adrienne-arsht.html
About 240 friends crowded the
ballroom of the Plaza Hotel in New York last night to celebrate
the 70th birthday of Adrienne Arsht, a former bank chairman and
lawyer who now devotes her time to philanthropy.  Arsht, dressed in a red Valentino gown and a Van Cleef &
Arpels zipper necklace, designed the evening around the
 performing arts . Talent included classical pianists Natasha
Paremski and Jean-Yves Thibaudet, Broadway star Rebecca Luker,
soprano Harolyn Blackwell and members of Les Ballets Trockadero
de Monte Carlo. Bandleader Peter Duchin played piano during
cocktail hour.  “This is an occasion to share my friends who are artists
with all my other friends,” Arsht said.  The guest list reflected her ties to New York,  Washington 
and Miami. Among those assembled: singer Gloria Estefan,
industrialist  David Koch , U.S. House of Representatives Minority
Leader Nancy Pelosi of  California , lobbyists Heather and Tony Podesta, philanthropist Laurie Tisch (sporting a brand-new
Giants Super Bowl championship ring),  Lincoln Center  President
Reynold Levy, Kennedy Center President Michael Kaiser and 
composer Jeanine Tesori.  “She’s the only person I know who exists comfortably in
the worlds of policy, the arts and philanthropy,” said
Frederick Kempe, president and chief executive of the Atlantic
Council, on whose board Arsht sits.  Arsht dove big time into supporting the performing arts
after selling TotalBank to  Banco Popular Espanol (POP)  in 2007.  Gifts and Boards  She gave $30 million to what became the Adrienne Arsht
Center for the Performing Arts of Miami-Dade County. At the John
F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, she started a fund
for musical theater that led to the revival of Stephen Sondheim’s “Follies.” (The well-reviewed show heads for  Los
Angeles  this spring.)  She is treasurer of the Kennedy Center board and also on
the boards of Lincoln Center and the  Metropolitan Opera , where
she presides over the New Year’s Eve gala.  “She is a good example of what the one percent should be
doing with their money,” said actor David Hyde-Pierce, the
night’s emcee.  Dinner was salmon en croute and Brussels sprouts. For
dessert, Arsht ordered up Good Humor ice cream and movie-theater
candy.  Diamonds and Rubies  Open jewelry boxes, filled with costume amethysts, diamonds
and rubies rested on beds of moss and succulents at every table.
Brooklyn-based  Cait & Jules LLC  handled event design.  “This party is amazing,” said Selwa “Lucky” Roosevelt,
a former U.S. chief of protocol. “Most women lie about their
age, and she’s celebrating.”  “I told her this decade is going to be really terrific,”
said Placido Domingo, who has pushed past 70 himself.  The program appropriately concluded with Brian Stokes-
Mitchell singing “Some Enchanted Evening.” Then Arsht got up
and made a public promise to each performer, to donate $10,000
to the charity of their choosing.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 