-- Schaeuble: Europe Better Prepared if Greece Defaults
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   P a t r i c k   D o n a h u e
-- 2012-02-14T16:10:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/schaeuble-pressures-greece-with-view-europe-better-prepared-for-a-default.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Europe is better prepared for a Greek default
than two years ago, jacking up pressure on Greece to hold to its
pledges and find the savings needed to win a second bailout.  Euro-area governments will decide “soon” on the new aid
program, European Union Economic and Monetary Commissioner Olli
Rehn said. Finance ministers are due to convene in Brussels
tomorrow for their second extraordinary meeting in a week after
telling Greek officials to identify additional cuts of 325
million euros ($428 million). The measures are among conditions
that must be met by tomorrow for Greece to secure a 130 billion-
euro rescue needed to avert financial collapse.  “We want to do everything to help  Greece  master this
crisis,” Schaeuble said in an interview with ZDF television
late yesterday. “What we’re experiencing at the moment is much
less bad than what may happen to Greece if the attempts to keep
Greece in the  euro zone  failed.” Yet if everything fails,
“we’re better prepared than two years ago,” he said.  Germany, the largest contributor to euro-area bailouts, is
losing patience with Greece as Europe’s most indebted country
threatens to drag the region’s economy into recession more than
two years after the sovereign-debt crisis first emerged.  Greek Prime Minister  Lucas Papademos  planned to hold a
Cabinet meeting at 4 p.m. Athens time -- an hour later than
originally scheduled -- to discuss actions required to qualify
for the bailout. The Greek government will cut spending at
ministries to find the 325 million euros, the state-run Athens
News Agency said, citing spokesman Pantelis Kapsis.  ‘Hedging Its Bets’  While Schaeuble’s comments toward Greece display a “strong
element of brinkmanship,” the tone is “starkly different”
from just a few months ago, Nicholas Spiro, managing director of
Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London, said in an e-mailed comment.  “ Germany  appears to be hedging its bets: giving Greece a
slim chance to stay in the euro zone while preparing the ground
for its possible exit,” he said.  Greece’s economy, already reeling from austerity measures
demanded by creditors, shrank 6.8 percent in 2011 compared with
a 6 percent contraction forecast by the government, statistics
published today showed.  Underscoring the contrast with Greece, now in what is
predicted to be a fifth year of recession, German investor
confidence surged to a 10-month high in February on the back of
improved global growth and signs the debt crisis is abating, the
ZEW Center for European Economic Research in Mannheim said.  Italy, Spain Auctions  The euro advanced and Italian and Spanish borrowing costs
plunged to the lowest in at least 11 months at debt sales today
as investors ignored downgrades by Moody’s Investors Service and
shrugged off Greece’s woes. Italy sold 6 billion euros of bonds,
meeting its target as its three-year borrowing costs fell to
3.41 percent, the lowest since March.  Spain  sold 12-month bills
at an average rate of 1.899 percent, the least since October
2010.  “I expect that we should soon be able to decide on a new
second program for Greece, also in order to launch an offer on
private-sector involvement which is a very important part of
this overall package,” the EU’s Rehn told reporters today in
Strasbourg,  France . Political leaders are committed “to make
this work and avoid a disorderly default of Greece, which would
have devastating consequences,” he said.  Clearer Message  European leaders separately received intimations of
possible help from  China  as Premier  Wen Jiabao  said his
government is willing to step up its involvement in resolving
the debt crisis so long as  Europe  sends a clearer message to
show how it’s working to strengthen its finances.  “China’s willingness to support Europe to cope with
sovereign-debt problems is sincere and firm,” Wen said today at
a joint press conference in Beijing with European Union
President  Herman Van Rompuy . “China is ready to get more deeply
involved in participating in solving the European debt issue.”  While political leaders in Berlin and Brussels welcomed the
passage of austerity measures in the Greek parliament on Feb. 12
as an important step in freeing up more aid, they said extra
steps still need to be agreed upon and pledges fulfilled.
Chancellor  Angela Merkel  signaled that no more money beyond the
130 billion euros will be made available, telling reporters that
“there can’t and won’t be any changes to the program.”  Greek leaders have been told they must provide written
assurances of their support for measures and policies in return
for new financing, the government in  Athens  said.  ‘Quid Pro Quo’  “We can and want to help only if there is a quid pro quo
on the Greek side,” German Economy Minister Philipp Roesler
said on Feb. 12 in  an interview  with ARD television. If not, the
“day X” of a Greek default “has lost much of its horror.”  Greek products are too expensive, with a minimum wage that
exceeds the euro-region average, Schaeuble said. The country
“has long lived beyond its means and must urgently develop a
competitive economy,” he said.  Greece is being subject to an “overdose of austerity”
with the result that “we will likely see more many more tense
moments in Greece, with a very serious risk that Greece will
eventually have to leave the euro,”  Holger Schmieding  and
 Christian Schulz  of Berenberg Bank in  London  said in a note.  German and other policymakers have made clear that
“support for Greece could be cut off at any time if the country
fails to implement the harsh program,” the economists said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Patrick Donahue in Berlin at 
 pdonahue1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  