-- Short-Selling, Volcker Rule Critics, Irish Banks: Compliance
-- B y   C a r l a   M a i n
-- 2012-02-14T13:33:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/short-sell-ban-volcker-rule-critics-chaoda-irish-banks-compliance.html
France and Belgium ended bans on the
short-selling of financial stocks, the countries’ financial
markets regulators said yesterday.  The French curbs, barring short sales on companies
including France’s biggest banks  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) ,  Societe
Generale SA (GLE)  and  Credit Agricole SA (ACA) , expired Feb. 11 and haven’t
been renewed, France’s Autorite des Marches Financiers said in a
statement on its website without giving further reasons for the
decision.  “The lower volatility of the markets” made the ban no
longer necessary, Belgium’s Financial Services and Markets
Authority said in its statement.  France, Belgium, Spain and Italy moved to ban short selling
in August in an effort to stabilize markets after European banks
including Societe Generale hit their lowest levels since the
credit crisis of 2008.  The  European Securities and Markets Authority , which
coordinates markets policy in the region, “has been informed”
of the French and Belgian actions, ESMA Spokesman Reemt Seibel
said in a telephone interview yesterday.  Both France and Belgium have bans on so-called naked short-
selling that remain in force.  April Group (APR) , CIC,  CNP Assurances SA (CNP) ,  Euler Hermes SA (ELE) ,
 Natixis SA (KN) , and  Scor SE (SCR)  were also covered by the French ban. The
AMF reiterated that it requires disclosure of short positions
under rules adopted last February. France also restricted short
sales in 2008 after the collapse of  Lehman Brothers Holdings
Inc. (LEHMQ)   Compliance Policy  U.S. Volcker Rule to Increase Financial System Risk, Critics Say  Representatives for the world’s largest banks said a U.S.
proposal to ban proprietary trading would increase risk, raise
costs for investors and be vulnerable to legal challenge.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  and  Bank of
America Corp. , alongside foreign banks and governments, were set
to file letters yesterday in opposition to the Volcker rule, a
proposal made under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act that seeks to limit
risky trading at banks that receive federal assistance.  “The proposal will severely limit banking entities’
ability to hedge their own risk, thereby increasing rather than
decreasing the risk to banking entities and the financial
system,” the  Clearing House Association ,  American Bankers
Association , Securities Industry and Financial Markets
Association, and  Financial Services Roundtable  said in joint
173-page  letter .  The rule named for former Fed Chairman Paul Volcker, who
championed it as an adviser to President Barack Obama, would
seek to ban banks from proprietary trading while allowing them
to continue short-term trades for hedging or market-making. It
also would limit banks’ investments in private-equity and hedge
funds.  The proposal is one of the most contentious provisions of
Dodd-Frank, the regulatory overhaul enacted in 2010 that
requires the ban on proprietary trading to be in place by July
21. A 298-page proposal released by U.S. regulators in October
included more than 1,300 questions for affected banks to
consider during the comment period, which closed yesterday.  For more, click here.  Separately, Canadian authorities reiterated warnings that
the so-called Volcker rule may stem liquidity for Canadian
 government bonds , Finance Minister Jim Flaherty said in a  letter 
to Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  released yesterday.  Bank of Canada Governor  Mark Carney  echoed those concerns
in a separate  letter  to Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S.
Bernanke. “The proposed rule may undermine, rather than
support, progress toward creating a safer, more resilient and
more efficient global financial system,” Carney wrote.  Canadian policy makers have joined European and Asian
colleagues in speaking out against the rule.  Canadian government bonds should be exempt from the
regulations, Flaherty said, noting that U.S. government bonds
are excluded. The rule risks impeding financial institutions
from acting as “market makers” for government bonds in Canada,
as well as for corporate bonds and stocks, he added.  For more, click here.  Separately, the Volcker rule may discriminate against funds
based in the EU, the  European Fund and Asset Management
Association  said yesterday in an e-mailed statement.  Parts of the Volcker rule would curb banks’ relationships
with so-called UCITS and other types of regulated funds in the
EU, without applying such restrictions to similar funds in the
U.S., the group said.  Compliance Action  SEC Starts Informal Inquiry of Private Equity Firms  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s review of how
private equity firms value assets and market their funds is said
to be looking at mainly smaller firms. The agency is interested
in the way private equity values its portfolio companies when
seeking to attract new investors.  Bloomberg’s Cristina Alesci reports on Bloomberg
Television’s “Money Moves.”  For the video, click here.  Singapore May Let Foreign Firms Invest in Local Law Firms  Singapore will allow foreign law firms to own stakes in
local legal practices or share in their profits under
legislative changes proposed by Law Minister K. Shanmugam today.  The Southeast Asian city will also relax the rules for the
admission of experienced foreign trial lawyers, he told
parliament. Shanmugam has said Singapore won’t “turn back”
after licensing six foreign firms in December 2008 to practice
local corporate law.  The decision to allow foreign law firms to own stakes in
local practices may help proposed tie-ups such as one between
London-based  Allen & Overy LLP  and Singapore’s Allen & Gledhill.
The two firms said in November they were in preliminary talks on
proposals to combine, subject to any necessary regulatory
approvals in Singapore.  Allen & Overy, Clifford Chance LLP, Norton Rose LLP,  White
& Case LLP (1116L) , Herbert Smith LLP and  Latham & Watkins LLP  were
awarded the six qualifying foreign law practice licenses in
2008. The firms made commitments to double their revenue,
staffing and profits in Singapore in five years.  Lawmakers from the ruling party have raised concerns about
the further opening of Singapore’s legal industry. That party
has 81 of 87 seats in the country’s parliament. A vote on the
proposed changes will take place at a later date.  Chaoda Chairman Denies Revealing Price Sensitive Information  Chaoda Modern Agriculture Holdings Ltd. (682)  Chairman Kwok Ho, a
subject in a Hong Kong insider-trading probe, denied discussing
an imminent share offering on conference calls with U.S.-based
investors in 2009.  “Certainly, certainly not,” Kwok told Hong Kong’s  Market
Misconduct Tribunal  Feb. 12 in response to a question about
whether he said on the calls that the Chinese vegetable supplier
would “soon” do a placement. He also denied that he wanted to
assess investor support for a share sale on the calls.  The tribunal is investigating whether material, non-public
information was improperly disclosed on phone calls involving
Kwok, Chaoda’s chief financial officer Andy Chan and U.S.
institutional investors in 2009. George Stairs, then a portfolio
manager at Fidelity Management & Research Co., took part in one
of those calls and sold some of his Chaoda holdings ahead of the
sale, according to Hong Kong’s government.  Stairs believed the share placement information he was
given by Chaoda’s chairman and chief financial officer was
public, according to a letter from Fidelity’s lawyers presented
in evidence to the tribunal.  Stairs and Chan have denied any wrongdoing.  Founded in 1994 by Kwok, Chaoda first sold shares to the
public in Hong Kong in 2000. Kwok, 56, is a member of the
Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference,  China ’s top
political advisory body, and has a 19.6 percent  stake  in the
company, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  For more, click here.  Courts  Cioffi, Tannin to Pay $1.05 Million to End SEC Lawsuit  Former  Bear Stearns Cos. (2942331Q)  hedge-fund managers  Ralph Cioffi 
and  Matthew Tannin , acquitted in 2009 of criminal charges they
misled investors, agreed to pay $1.05 million to settle a
related civil case brought by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission.  Cioffi agreed to pay $800,000 and accept a three-year ban
from the securities industry and Tannin agreed to pay $250,000
and to a two-year ban, SEC attorney John Worland told U.S.
District Judge Frederic Block in Brooklyn,  New York , in a
hearing yesterday.  In November 2009, a federal jury found Cioffi and Tannin
not guilty of conspiracy and securities and wire fraud in the
first criminal trial stemming from a federal probe of the
collapse of the subprime-mortgage market. Cioffi, 56, was
portfolio manager for the hedge funds. Tannin, 50, was their
chief operating officer. The government said investors lost $1.6
billion.  Block, who described the settlement as “chump change,”
said at the hearing that he was “inclined to sign off on it,”
and asked lawyers for both sides to file more papers by next
week.  After the hearing, Cioffi’s lawyer, Edward Little of Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP, and Tannin’s lawyer, Nina Beattie of Brune &
Richard LLP, declined to comment.  John Nester , an SEC spokesman, didn’t immediately respond
to an e-mail seeking comment on the settlement.  The civil case is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Cioffi, 08-cv-2457, and the criminal case is U.S. v. Cioffi, 08-
CR-00415, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  U.K. Files Extra Lawsuit Against ECB on Central Clearing Rules  The U.K. filed an additional lawsuit against the  European
Central Bank  over its plans to block trades in some euro-
denominated securities from being cleared outside of the 17
countries that share the currency.  U.K. authorities submitted a second case against the ECB at
the European Union’s General Court in Luxembourg on Jan. 27,
according to the court’s website.  The move follows an earlier complaint by the U.K. filed in
October. The new action concerns comments made by the ECB since
the original case was registered, according to the tribunal’s
press service.  In the earlier suit, the U.K. sued the European Central
Bank over plans to block trades in some euro-denominated
securities from being cleared outside of the 17 countries that
share the currency. The case was registered at the EU court, the
region’s second-highest, on Sept. 15, according to the
tribunal’s press service.  The U.K.’s lawsuit against the ECB over its location policy
for clearinghouses was registered at the EU General Court in
Luxembourg. A hearing could come within two years and a ruling
may take as long as three years. It was the first such move by a
country.  The Frankfurt-based ECB declined to comment on the latest
lawsuit.  The case is T-45/12 pending case, United Kingdom v. ECB.  Siemens, Toshiba Lose EU Court Appeal Over Czech Antitrust Fines  Siemens AG (SIE) ,  Toshiba Corp. (6502) , Hitachi Ltd. are among electric-
equipment makers that lost a European Court challenge to
overturn more than 900 million koruna ($47 million) in Czech
antitrust fines.  The  EU Court of Justice  ruled that the Czech antitrust
regulator was right to fine at least 10 companies a record 979
million koruna in 2007, a month after the EU authority had
levied a 750.7 million-euro penalty ($988 million) on them for
colluding on prices of electric equipment. The companies, also
including  Areva SA (CEI)  and  Alstom SA (ALO) , challenged the legality of the
Czech fine, which was later cut to 942 million koruna.  The case is C-17/10, Toshiba Corporation, Areva, Mitsubishi
Electric Corp., Alstom, Fuji Electric, VA TECH Transmission &
Distribution GmbH & Co. KEG,  Siemens AG (SIE) , Hitachi Ltd, Japan AE
Power Systems Corp., Nuova Magrini Galileo SpA v. Urad pro
ochranu hospodarske souteze.  Chartwell Insider Suit Dismissed by SEC, Citing Lack of Evidence  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission dropped a suit
against Geneva-based Chartwell Asset Management Services and
asked a court to let it dismiss claims against two other Swiss
firms, citing difficulties in getting evidence.  The SEC sued Chartwell, along with Compania Internacional
Financiera SA and Coudree Capital Gestion SA, in federal court
in Manhattan in July. The agency claimed they made millions of
dollars by buying shares in  Arch Chemicals Inc. (ARJ)  in the days
before Basel, Switzerland-based  Lonza Group Ltd. (LONN)  announced its
plan to buy the specialty chemicals maker for $1.2 billion.  In court papers filed Feb. 10, the SEC agreed with
Chartwell to drop the suit without prejudice, or without any bar
against refiling it later. The SEC asked the court to let it
drop the case against the other two firms without prejudice. The
SEC said it had difficulty getting documents and other evidence
and claims Compania Internacional and Coudree Capital have
obstructed its efforts.  Chartwell’s agreement with the SEC allows the firm to
recover $9.3 million frozen during the litigation. Chartwell, an
investment adviser, has cooperated with the agency, Marc
Greenwald, a U.S. lawyer for the firm, said in a telephone
interview.  Compania Internacional and Coudree Capital will respond to
the SEC’s claims in court papers, their lawyer,  Ira Sorkin , said
in a telephone interview, declining further comment.  The case is SEC v. Compania Internacional Financiera SA,
11-cv-4904, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Interviews/Speeches  Fickes Says SEC May Review Facebook Voting Rights  Mark Fickes, a partner at  BraunHagey & Borden LLP , talked
about regulators’ scrutiny of  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s initial public
offering filing.  He spoke with  Cory Johnson  on Bloomberg Television’s
“Bloomberg West.” Bloomberg’s Emily Chang also speaks.
(Source: Bloomberg)  For the video, click here.  Fearful Irish Bankers Will Sidestep Armageddon, Shatter Says  Irish banks may be suffering a “fear factor” in lending
after the collapse of a real estate bubble that resembled “a
Ponzi scheme,” according to Justice Minister Alan Shatter.  Lenders handed out 623 million euros ($827 million) of home
loans in the third quarter, according to the  Irish Banking
Federation . They lent 11 billion euros in the same period five
years earlier, the height of the boom.  “What our financial institutions were running in the
2003-2007 period was the nearest thing to a residential property
pyramid scheme,” Shatter said in a Feb. 10 interview at his
Dublin office. “We have gone from a situation from where they
were throwing money at any dog that moved,” to one where the
banks are being “unduly difficult.”  Almost 13 percent of private residential mortgages were
either more than 90 days in arrears or restructured at the end
of September, according to the Irish central bank.  Ireland’s Finance Minister Michael Noonan said yesterday
that  Allied Irish Banks Plc (ALBK)  and  Bank of Ireland Plc  have been
set “ambitious” lending targets by the government to lend 3.5
billion euros to small and medium sized businesses this year and
4 billion in 2013. The banks lent about 3 billion euros in 2011,
he said.  For more, click here.  Comings and Goings/Notable Passings  Thomas Storrs, Who Set Stage for Bank of America, Dies at 93  Thomas Storrs, whose determination to expand  North Carolina 
National Bank beyond state borders laid the foundation for
today’s  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , has died. He was 93.  Storrs died Feb. 10 in Charlotte, North Carolina, according
to a notice in The State newspaper of Columbia,  South Carolina .
No cause was given.  As chairman and chief executive officer from 1974 to 1983
of NCNB Corp., the Charlotte-based parent of North Carolina
National Bank, Storrs set his sights on challenging federal laws
that generally limited a bank’s operations to its home state. He
began the process in 1982 by using a quirk in Florida law to
successfully arrange the acquisition of three Florida banks,
according to accounts in the New York Times.  For more, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carla Main in  New Jersey  at 
 cmain2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this report:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 