-- Singapore Proposes Opening Law Firms to Foreign Ownership, Profit Sharing
-- B y   A n d r e a   T a n
-- 2012-02-14T10:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/singapore-proposes-opening-law-firms-to-foreign-ownership-profit-sharing.html
Singapore  will allow foreign law
firms to own stakes in local legal practices or share in their
profits under legislative changes proposed by Law Minister K. Shanmugam today.  The Southeast Asian city will also relax the rules for the
admission of experienced foreign  trial lawyers , he told
parliament. Shanmugam has said Singapore won’t “turn back”
after licensing six foreign firms in December 2008 to practice
local corporate law.  The decision to allow foreign law firms to own stakes in
local practices may help proposed tie-ups such as one between
London-based  Allen & Overy LLP  and Singapore’s Allen & Gledhill.
The two firms said in November they were in preliminary talks on
proposals to combine, subject to any necessary regulatory
approvals in Singapore.  Allen & Overy , Clifford Chance LLP, Norton Rose LLP,  White
& Case LLP (1116L) , Herbert Smith LLP and  Latham & Watkins LLP  were
awarded the six qualifying foreign law practice licenses in
2008. The firms made commitments to double their revenue,
staffing and profits in Singapore in five years.  Lawmakers including Hri Kumar and Christopher De Souza,
both lawyers and from the ruling party, raised concerns about
the further opening of Singapore’s legal industry.  Foreign Domination?  “In a firm where the final decision lies abroad, the
bottom line becomes paramount,” said Kumar, a lawyer with Drew
& Napier LLC in Singapore.  “Does the minister foresee our legal industry heading the
direction of  Hong Kong  where international law firms dominate
nearly every area of law and is that a consequence the
government favors or is prepared to accept?” he asked.  The decision to allow foreign law firms to take stakes lies
with local law practices, Shanmugam said in response. The
proposed change isn’t a “mandate” that domestic law firms are
required to followed, he said.  Singapore’s ruling party has 81 of 87 seats in the
country’s parliament. A vote on the proposed changes will take
place at a later date.  Hong Kong has attracted at least 14 U.S. law firms to offer
advice on local law since 2010 when it was the world’s busiest
market for initial public offerings. London-based firms have
dominated legal advice to financial institutions in the former
British colony.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Tan in Singapore at 
 atan17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  