-- South African Stocks: Anglo, BHP, Country Bird, Mondi, Telkom
-- B y   S t e p h e n   G u n n i o n
-- 2012-02-14T16:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/south-african-stocks-anglo-bhp-drdgold-mondi-telkom-move.html
The  FTSE/JSE Africa All Share Index (JALSH) 
fell for the second time in three days, declining 0.3 percent to
34,112.44 by the close in Johannesburg.  The following were among the most active equities in the
South African market today. Stock symbols follow company names.       Anglo American Plc (AGL)  , a diversified miner that makes
up about 9 percent of the index, fell for the third time in four
days, dropping 2 percent to 335.60 rand. Copper fell for a third
day in  New York  on renewed concern the euro-area sovereign-debt
crisis may crimp demand after Moody’s Investors Service cut debt
ratings for six countries, including  Italy .  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BIL)  , the world’s biggest miner,
slipped 1.3 percent to 250.50 rand.  Country Bird Holdings Ltd. (CNH)  (CBH SJ), a chicken producer,
climbed to its highest in more than four years, jumping 4
percent to 5.25 rand.  South Africa  provisionally imposed higher
charges on poultry imports from  Brazil  to protect local
suppliers.  Astral Foods Ltd. (ARL)  , South  Africa ’s largest chicken
producer by market value, rose the most in more than nine
months, gaining 2.5 percent to 125.20 rand.  Mondi Ltd. (MND)  ,  Europe ’s biggest maker of office
paper, advanced to its highest in more than six months, climbing
3.7 percent to 67.43 rand. Operating profit for the 12 months to
Dec. 31 will be “considerably higher” than a year earlier, the
company said in a stock exchange statement today.  Telkom South Africa Ltd. (TKG)  , Africa’s biggest fixed-
line phone company, slumped to its lowest in more than eight
years, dropping 2.7 percent to 27.45 rand. South Africa’s
antitrust commission asked the Competition Tribunal to impose a
3.5 billion-rand penalty on the company, Business Day reported,
citing the commission.       Tiger Brands Ltd. (TBS)  , South Africa’s largest food
company, rose for the first time in seven days, gaining 0.8
percent to 250 rand. Headline earnings per share are expected to
show “satisfactory growth” for the year to September 2012,
Chairman Lex van Vught said at the company’s annual general
meeting today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephen Gunnion in Johannesburg at 
 sgunnion@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  