-- Rand Slides as Moody’s Europe Rating Reductions Hurts Stocks, Commodities
-- B y   R o b e r t   B r a n d
-- 2012-02-14T14:18:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/south-africa-rand-falls-as-moody-s-rating-cuts-hurts-stocks-commodities.html
The rand weakened as stocks and
metal prices fell after Moody’s Investors Service lowered debt
ratings of six European countries, prompting investors to sell
riskier assets.  South Africa ’s currency depreciated as much as 0.9 percent
before paring its decline to 0.6 percent at 7.7303 as of 3:15
p.m. in Johannesburg.  The U.K. and France may be stripped of their top Aaa
ratings, Moody’s said as it downgraded the debt of countries
including Italy, Spain and  Portugal  on concern economic weakness
may threaten austerity programs and reforms. The prices of
metals including copper, nickel and platinum declined, and South
Africa’s benchmark stock  index  retreated. Raw materials account
for 64 percent of South Africa’s exports, according to
government data for 2011.  “Risky assets appear to be under some pressure, after
another round of sovereign rating downgrades in  Europe ,”  Benoit Anne , the London-based head of emerging-markets strategy at
Societe Generale SA, said in an e-mailed note. “This, together
with the fear of further headline risks, seems to be creating a
negative market backdrop for risk.”  Spain  was downgraded to A3 from A1, Italy was cut to A3
from A2, and Portugal was reduced to Ba3 from Ba2, all with
negative outlooks, Moody’s said. It also lowered Slovakia,
Slovenia and Malta’s ratings.  The euro, the currency in which 22 percent of South
Africa’s exports are paid, weakened for a third day versus the
dollar. Regional finance chiefs convene in Brussels tomorrow to
decide whether to ratify a 130 billion-euro ($171 billion)
bailout for Greece.  ’Apparent Optimism’  “The apparent optimism which emerged after the Greek
parliament voted through the austerity package yesterday morning
is starting to look like a distant memory,”  Brigid Taylor , head
of institutional flow sales at Nedbank Group Ltd., said in e-
mailed comments. “Players were seemingly wary of getting
exposed one way or the other since the euro group meeting will
be held on Wednesday.”  South Africa’s 13.5 percent bonds due 2015 declined,
driving the yield two basis points, or 0.02 percentage point,
higher to 6.605 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Brand in  Cape Town  at 
 rbrand9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  