-- Spending Won’t Fix What Ails U.S. Infrastructure: Edward Glaeser
-- B y   E d w a r d   G l a e s e r
-- 2012-02-14T00:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/spending-won-t-fix-what-ails-u-s-transport-commentary-by-edward-glaeser.html
President  Barack Obama ’s
announcement yesterday of a six-year, $476 billion surface
transportation reauthorization bill, as part of his 2013 budget,
is the latest demonstration of a longstanding presidential
propensity for transportation projects.  The U.S. owes its emergence as a great power to magnificent
investments in infrastructure. The emerging giant of today,
 China (TBBLCHNA) , is following that example. Many imagine that we must
again build big to stay on top. But success in middle-age -- for
people and nations -- requires wisdom and cunning more than
pumped-up brawn. America’s infrastructure needs intelligent
reform, not floods of extra financing or quixotic dreams of new
moon adventures or high-speed railways to nowhere.  When the U.S. was new, it had a hinterland with seemingly
unlimited natural resources that was virtually inaccessible to
the population centers of the East and the markets of the Old
World. It cost as much to move goods 30 miles over land as to
ship them across the Atlantic. Our first leaders dreamed of
building waterways that would open the West;  George Washington 
founded the Potomac Canal Company before he became president.
The  Erie Canal  was a wonder of the age, running 363 miles and
paying for itself within a decade.  Interstate Highway System  Abraham Lincoln helped win the West by supporting the
construction of the Transcontinental Railroad, with public land
grants and lending. Of all of Theodore Roosevelt’s myriad
presidential achievements, he may have been proudest of the
Panama Canal, which sped transport by water between California
and the East Coast. President Dwight D. Eisenhower may have been
conservative in most things, but not when it came to building
the  Interstate Highway System  that reshaped America around the
automobile.  American urbanites see the remnants of our engineering
greatness all around them.  New York City  has three great bridges
that were all, at some point, the longest suspension bridge in
the world: the Brooklyn Bridge, the George Washington Bridge and
the Verrazano Narrows Bridge. The Golden Gate Bridge in  San
Francisco  was also the world’s longest suspension bridge for
more than two decades. Today,  six of the 10 longest  bridges are
in  Asia .  The spate of bridge and rail construction in  China  taps
into American insecurities and  leads many to wonder  whether we
are falling behind because we aren’t building more. Politicians
understand the magical promise of bold new projects, like
superfast trains across California or missions to space, but
that promise can be false.  Spain ’s current fiscal woes owe much
to its overly ambitious high-speed rail investments. Similar
rail projects in China have produced more  allegations of
corruption  and  safety problems  than economic transformation.  Infrastructure investment only makes sense when there is a
clear problem that needs solving and when benefits exceed costs.
U.S. transportation does have problems -- traffic delays in
airports and on city streets, decaying older structures,
excessive dependence on imported oil -- but none of these
challenges requires the heroics of a 21st century  Erie Canal .
Instead, they need smart, incremental changes that will
demonstrate more wisdom than brute strength.  Here are seven ways to improve U.S. transportation:  LET USERS PAY: More than two centuries ago,  Adam Smith 
wrote  that  “When the carriages which pass over a highway or a
bridge, and the lighters which sail upon a navigable canal, pay
toll in proportion to their weight or their tonnage, they pay
for the maintenance of those public works exactly in proportion
to the wear and tear which they occasion of them,” and “it is
scarce possible to imagine a more equitable way of maintaining
such works.”  He then wisely noted that “when high-roads, bridges,
canals, etc., are in this manner made and supported by the
commerce which is carried on by means of them, they can be made
only where that commerce requires them, and, consequently, where
it is proper to make them.”  User fees support the maintenance of aging infrastructure.
Like all prices, they allocate scarce resources to the people
who value them most. Perhaps most importantly, as Smith
emphasized, user-fee financing discourages white elephants,
because projects that can pay for themselves are practically
guaranteed to deliver plenty of value.  In the early days, we paid for infrastructure, such as the
Erie Canal and the Brooklyn Bridge, by charging tolls. That was
easy to do, as demand for these improvements was enormous. But
our fondness for big projects gradually and dangerously moved us
away from this ideal. The Highway System is meant to be funded
with gas taxes paid into the Highway  Trust Fund , but  funding
formulas  mean that the taxes each state pays into the fund
rarely match the money received.  The stimulus delivered a dollop of highway spending
provided with general tax dollars, and the  Congressional Budget
Office  projects that the Trust Fund will be broke by 2014. Yet
Congress is now promoting a vast new  road spending bill . The
budget the president presented yesterday supports paying for
infrastructure with “current user-financed mechanisms,” but
also proposes tapping “part of the savings from ending the war
in  Iraq  and winding down operations in Afghanistan,” which just
means using general  tax revenue  to pay for highways.  Given our energy problems, we shouldn’t be bribing anyone
to drive. We should make sure that users pay for their travel.
Ideally, this should be done with electronic tolling that ties
the revenue to the road, but failing that, at least we should
ensure that gas taxes are high enough to cover our highway
costs.  IMPLEMENT CONGESTION PRICING: We should expect drivers to
pay for more than just the physical costs of their travel. We
should also expect them to pay for the congestion that they
impose on other road users. If you have a scarce commodity,
whether groceries or roads, and you insist on charging prices
below market rates, the result will be long lines and stock
outs, like those that bedeviled the Soviet Union decades ago.
Yet U.S. roads are still running a Soviet-style transport
policy, where we charge too little for valuable city streets.
Traffic congestion is the urban equivalent of a stock out.  The idea of congestion pricing was advanced by the
economist William Vickrey 50 years ago.  He wanted to charge 
enough so that streets would move fluidly. Singapore adopted the
proposal in 1975, and it now has an electronic system that keeps
the roads in the world’s second-densest country moving quickly.
 London  is a more recent example of a congestion-pricing system,
and that city has also become more livable as a result.  Congestion pricing should have been allowed in Manhattan
years ago, and it could help many U.S. cities. Our highways
could become more efficient if they raised tolls during peak
commuting hours, which would encourage alternative means of
travel and commuting during off-peak hours. Airports, too, could
make traffic delays rarer by charging higher fees, especially
during peak periods.  We could build more roads to deal with traffic, but the
work of Gilles Duranton and Matthew Turner casts cold water on
that approach. They devised a “ Fundamental Law of Road
Congestion ”: highway miles traveled increase almost one-for-one
with highway miles built. If you build it, they will drive. The
better approach to ensure that a scarce resource is used
efficiently is to charge higher prices during peak use periods.  DE-FEDERALIZE TRANSPORT SPENDING: Most forms of transport
infrastructure overwhelmingly serve the residents of a single
state. Yet the federal government has played an outsized role in
funding transportation for 50 years. Whenever the person paying
isn’t the person who benefits, there will always be a push for
more largesse and little check on spending efficiency. Would
 Detroit ’s People Mover have ever been built if the people of
Detroit had to pay for it? We should move toward a system in
which states and localities take more responsibility for the
infrastructure that serves their citizens.  The federal government does have a role. It should ensure
coordination in nationwide networks. It can embrace smart
policies, such as the Education Department’s Race to the Top
initiative, that provide incentives for innovation and reform,
and the president’s budget seems to move in that direction. The
government must go beyond just being the big spender cutting
checks. Our current approach has produced a highway system in
which, as the  Office of Management and Budget  once noted,
“funding is not based on need or performance and has been
heavily earmarked.” The House’s new highway bill may be
earmark-free, but it does little to tie spending to need or
performance.  INSTITUTIONALIZE MAINTENANCE FUNDING: Throughout the world,
political leaders love to cut ribbons on new projects, but they
hate the hard work of maintaining older infrastructure. The
natural result is that bridges become unsafe and highways are
riddled with potholes. As I suspect that states and localities
will always do too little to invest in maintenance, this would
be a good place to redirect federal spending.  Instead of funding new projects, the Highway Trust Fund
could instead become solely a road and bridge maintenance fund.
Obama’s 2013 budget moves in this direction by espousing a
“fix-it-first policy,” but that isn’t the same as tying future
tax revenue to needed maintenance.  New projects would be funded in-state, but federal money
could only be used to keep our current system working. States
would receive gas-tax revenue paid only by drivers on their own
roads to cover needed maintenance expenditures. Ideally, if
maintenance needs are below gas taxes, then federal gas taxes in
that state would be cut accordingly. The federal government
would monitor infrastructure quality and use its funding to
ensure that standards were kept high.  PROMOTE PRIVATE-PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS: Chile has been at the
forefront of pioneering public-private transportation
investment, and the U.S. has much to learn from its  example . The
basic idea is that the government establishes the need for some
new investment, and clears the political hurdles, but then takes
bids from the private sector for construction and operation. The
private entity pays the upfront costs, which are then recouped
with toll revenue. In some cases, a moderate subsidy may be
required, but at least that subsidy is transparent.  This system has three big advantages. The private sector
may be most cost-effective at construction and maintenance. The
project only goes forward if private investors anticipate
significant toll revenue. The private operator has every
incentive to keep up maintenance, because it can only recoup
costs if people keep driving the roads. There are also
challenges involved in managing private concessions, as
 California ’s experience with  State Road 91  illustrates, but
these hurdles should be surmountable, especially if we have
enough regulation to keep private roads and bridges safe.  CHERISH THE BUS: There is an old joke that 40 years of
transportation economics at Harvard can be boiled down to four
words: “Bus Good, Train Bad.” The many advantages of the bus
were first illustrated in the classic text, “ The Urban
Transportation Problem ,” by  John Meyer , John Kain and Martin
Wohl. (Meyer and Kain were both mentors of mine). Buses are
flexible, cheap and can move almost as fast as urban trains if
they operate on a dedicated road or a private tunnel. Perhaps
the most positive transport innovation of the past decade has
been the enormous competition of private buses plying the roads
of the Eastern Seaboard.  Cars can’t be the only answer for urban commuters,
especially for poorer Americans during an era of high gas
prices. Buses can be a pleasant alternative, with televisions
and Wi-Fi connectivity. Buses can move quickly if they are given
enough space to drive. Instead of chasing the quixotic dream of
high-speed rail in  Texas , public-transit aficionados should
start agitating for better bus service, with plenty of private
competition.  SPLIT UP THE PORT AUTHORITY: Last week gave us another
painful  audit  of the work by the Port Authority of  New York  and
 New Jersey  to manage the World Trade Center site. I’m not going
to pile on, but this super-entity is too big to succeed. How can
the Port Authority possibly focus on tasks such as making New
York’s airports more functional when it has so much else on its
plate?  The problems at John F. Kennedy International Airport
aren’t evidence of the need for a new federal infrastructure
agenda, they indicate only that the Port Authority has too much
to do. Splitting off the airports, probably into two separate
entities (for New York and New Jersey), could generate
managerial focus and more competition. The airports can fund
themselves if they are free to charge higher landing fees.
Millions of fliers into New York should be perfectly willing to
pay a bit more to ensure a more pleasant experience. More nimble
and less restricted airports would help that happen.  America’s infrastructure has been great and can be great
again. But we don’t need vast new projects that we won’t bother
to maintain. We need a number of smart, incremental reforms that
will enable our system, and our country, to live up to their
potential.  ( Edward Glaeser , an economics professor at  Harvard
University , is a Bloomberg View columnist. He is the author of
“Triumph of the City.” The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Edward Glaeser at  eglaeser@harvard.edu .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Max Berley at   mberley@bloomberg.net . 