-- Sri Lanka Doesn’t Need to Raise Rates Further, Cabraal Says
-- B y   A n u s h a   O n d a a t j i e
-- 2012-02-14T08:35:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/sri-lanka-doesn-t-need-to-raise-rates-further-cabraal-says.html
Sri Lanka  doesn’t need to further
tighten monetary policy for now even though an increase in fuel
and transportation costs and a weakening currency may stoke
inflation, the head of the central bank said.  The central bank’s rate increase earlier this month will
have a “demand-driven impact” and help moderate inflation, its
Governor Ajith Nivard Cabraal said in a telephone interview
today. The bank expects the island nation to meet its target of
mid-single digit inflation, he said, without giving a timeframe.  “What we have done is sufficient,” Cabraal said. “It’s a
policy package that will bring systemic changes in the right
direction.”  Policy makers on Feb. 3 raised benchmark rates for the
first time in five years and said they would curtail import-
related credit to reduce trade and current-account deficits. The
moves will ensure that inflation remains at “mid-single digit
levels” in the second half of 2012, they said.  The bank on Feb. 9 also abandoned a currency trading band
to help conserve foreign-exchange reserves. Together the
policies will help to bring down the trade and current-account
deficits, Cabraal said.  Ceylon Petroleum Corp., Sri Lanka’s state oil company,
raised petroleum prices from Feb. 12. The price increases led to
a 20 percent rise in bus fares, the state-run Daily News
reported today.  Stocks Fall  The benchmark  Colombo  All-Share Index lost 3.8 percent to
5002.68 at 12:51 p.m. local time, extending eight days of losses
and set to close at its lowest level since August 2010, while
the Sri Lankan rupee plunged 2.8 percent to 120.10 per dollar,
according to Bloomberg data.  Stocks and the rupee slumped last week after Cabraal said
policy makers would “intervene” in the  currency market  through
“supply and not based on price.”  Sri Lanka devalued the currency by 3 percent in November to
boost exports. The central bank lowered the rupee’s trading band
against the dollar on Feb. 3, Feb. 6 and Feb. 9, prior to
announcing its removal.  Consumer prices in the capital, Colombo, increased 3.8
percent in January from a year earlier after gaining 4.9 percent
in December.  Sri Lanka’s foreign-exchange reserves have dropped by about
25 percent from an unprecedented $8 billion last year, as the
central bank sold dollars to defend the local currency.  The dismantling of the trading band came after calls by the
 International Monetary Fund  for a more flexible  exchange rate .  The IMF, which has disbursed $1.75 billion from a $2.6
billion program to boost the Sri Lankan central bank’s reserves,
said Feb. 3 it endorsed the decision to raise rates and cool
credit demand.  The IMF also welcomed “the move toward greater exchange
rate flexibility,” Koshy Mathai, the lender’s resident
representative in Colombo, said in a Feb. 9 e-mail.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anusha Ondaatjie in Colombo at 
 anushao@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Hari Govind at 
 hgovind@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  