-- St. Jude Heart Device Exposes Failure of Safety Monitoring, Doctor Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-02-14T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/st-jude-heart-device-exposes-failure-of-safety-monitoring-doctor-says.html
St. Jude Medical Inc. (STJ) ’s Riata, a
cable used in heart defibrillators, is the latest example of a
defective medical device that wasn’t spotted quickly enough
because U.S. surveillance systems are lacking, according to an
article in the  New England Journal of Medicine .  The company stopped selling the wires in December 2010, 
and recalled the products a year later because they could 
break through Riata’s insulation coating and cause a failure. 
Still, 79,000 of thr so-called leads are inside U.S. patients, 
said Robert Hauser, a Minneapolis Heart Institute cardiologist.  St. Jude and U.S. regulators aren’t conducting studies
needed to guide treatment for patients with Riata leads, though
technology is available to do so, the researcher said. 
Surveillance systems weren’t in place to detect the defects 
early, even after the need became clear when Minneapolis-based 
 Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  halted sales of its Sprint Fidelis leads in 2007 
because of their potential to fracture, Hauser said.  “Patients in the  United States  continue to be exposed to
underperforming and potentially hazardous medical devices after
they have been approved by the  Food and Drug Administration ,
despite multiple recalls and some tragic adverse events,”
Hauser wrote, in the article released today by the medical
journal. “We are confronted once more with a critical clinical
situation in which we have no scientifically valid information
to guide us.”  Safety Study  St. Jude, based in  St. Paul ,  Minnesota ,  started a 500-
patient Riata Lead Evaluation Study in December 2011 to get 
more information on how often the wires break free from the 
insulated cables; evaluate related electrical abnormalities; 
and help guide future patient management.   A website was introduced to improve communication with
physicians and provide additional information, the company said 
in a statement.  “St. Jude Medical has the most active post-market
surveillance program in the industry for these leads,” said
Mark Carlson, chief medical officer of St. Jude, in an emailed
statement. “St. Jude Medical has a strong history of product
safety and reliability, and we remain dedicated to developing
technology and products that save and improve the lives of
patients.”  The current surveillance system doesn’t detect defects
until thousands of patients have been exposed to a new
technology, Hauser wrote. There is little information to ensure
the safety of any new products, including the St. Jude Durata
lead that replaced Riata, or guide the care of patients who
receive potentially harmful devices, he said. As a result,
doctors react ineffectively and perhaps dangerously, he said.  Spot Problems Early  Manufacturers should conduct studies after devices used to
sustain life are released to spot problems early and gather data
needed to guide patient care, Hauser wrote. Already, more than
150,000 Americans rely on life-saving medical devices, he said.  “We’re not doing it right,” Hauser said in a telephone
interview. “We do have the technology. We even have the
software programs that can monitor these devices in real time.
We need a vigorous, robust system that keeps these devices under
the microscope every day.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  