-- Stanford Blew Millions on Bellagio, Women and Yachts, FBI Agent Tells Jury
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 2012-02-15T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/stanford-lost-711m-on-side-ventures-fbi.html
R. Allen Stanford blew $1.1 million
at the  Bellagio  hotel and casino in Las Vegas and gave another
million in cash to family members, including his wife and
girlfriend, an FBI agent told jurors at the financier’s criminal
fraud trial.  The  Texas  financier also spent $20 million on yachts,
$37 million promoting cricket tournaments, $333 million on a
pair of startup Caribbean airlines, and another $379 million to
underwrite his Stanford Group Co. broker-dealer, FBI Special
Agent Robert Martin testified yesterday about his review of the
company’s financial records.  “Did that represent all his spending?” Assistant U.S.
Attorney Andrew Warren asked Martin.  “No, not at all,” Martin replied.  Prosecutors showed jurors evidence illustrating how they
believe Stanford spent more than $2 billion he’s accused of
skimming from certificates of deposit at Stanford International
Bank Ltd. in Antigua. While customers were promised their money
was invested in safe, liquid assets, prosecutors claim Stanford
borrowed heavily from the CDs to finance an extravagant
lifestyle and dozens of risky ventures.  Flight Risk  Stanford, 61, has been jailed as a flight risk since his
indictment in June 2009. The former billionaire, who denies
wrongdoing, faces as long as 20 years in prison if convicted of
the most serious charges against him.  Among Stanford’s personal wire transfers to the Bellagio in
 Las Vegas , Martin testified he found one for $200,000 in January
2009, four weeks before regulators seized Stanford’s operation
on suspicion it was a $7 billion  Ponzi scheme .  Martin said he also reviewed business records indicating
the financier loaned $418 million to Stanford Development Co.,
his real estate development firm, and $350 million to his
venture capital unit. An array of other speculative ventures,
some of which simply disappeared, Martin said, burned through an
additional $486 million Stanford borrowed from CD depositors.  Stanford’s defense lawyers have told jurors their client
was in the process of consolidating roughly 130 private
companies onto his Antiguan bank’s balance sheet when U.S.
regulators shut him down. If regulators hadn’t blocked that
consolidation, his lawyers claim, the move would have
recapitalized the bank and repaid all of Stanford’s investors.  ‘Practically None’  “Practically none of Mr. Stanford’s companies were
profitable,” Martin testified. While some of Stanford’s side
ventures made money from “time to time,” the agent said, only
Bank of Antigua, a tiny commercial bank Stanford ran for
islanders, consistently earned a yearly profit.  The side ventures Stanford loaned more than $2 billion to
collectively lost at least $711 million by the end of 2008,
Martin  told jurors. The financier’s borrowings contributed to a
$7.05 billion  “hole” Martin said existed between the $8.59
billion in reported  assets and $1.54 billion in actual assets
on Stanford International Bank’s books at year-end 2008.  Under questioning by Ali Fazel, one of Stanford’s
attorneys, Martin said he has calculated “practically zero”
value for most of the financier’s side enterprises because the
entities weren’t owned by the bank and most were unprofitable.  “Are you saying these companies are worthless because they
have no profits?” Fazel asked. “These companies have no value
in and of themselves?”  ‘Can Have Value’  “They can have value, but that doesn’t mean they do have
value,” Martin replied.  Fazel suggested the government hasn’t found all of
Stanford’s assets, and that’s why the bank’s balance sheet
appears short.  “Wouldn’t it be important to know the totality of assets
SIBL has before you tell the jury that 92 percent of the assets
are missing or don’t exist?” Fazel asked. “Are there assets
out there you don’t know about?”  “I don’t think there are,” Martin replied. “I think
we’ve got an accounting of what the bank’s assets were at the
end of 2008.”  Lanny Breuer , head of the  Justice Department ’s criminal
division, monitored testimony yesterday at Stanford’s trial,
which is in its fourth week. Sitting alone in the rear of the
courtroom, Breuer said he has been “following the case”
through regular reports. He declined to comment on the trial,
citing a gag order by the judge barring lawyers from publicly
discussing it.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-00342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston). The SEC
case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Stanford
International Bank, 09-cv-00298, U.S. District Court, Northern
District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 