-- Swiss Stocks Slide; Actelion, Roche Shares Lead Retreat in Zurich Trading
-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s   a n d   A d r i a   C i m i n o
-- 2012-02-14T16:51:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/swiss-stocks-decline-roche-bobst-retreat-transocean-rises.html
Swiss stocks  fell as Moody’s
Investors Service cut credit ratings on six European countries
and U.S. retail sales rose less than forecast.  Actelion Ltd., the maker of the Tracleer lung treatment,
sank the most in more than three months after saying profit this
year is likely to be unchanged.  Roche (ROG)  Holding AG, the world’s
biggest maker of cancer drugs, slipped 1.2 percent.  The  Swiss Market Index (SMI) , a measure of  Switzerland ’s biggest
and most actively traded companies, dropped 0.2 percent to
6,163.82 at the close in Zurich. The gauge has still advanced
 3.8 percent this year  as central banks moved to support lenders
and stop credit markets from freezing. The broader Swiss
Performance Index also slid 0.2 percent.  “The two major issues in  Europe  today that will prevent
any sustainable rally as long as they remain are sovereign debts
and an under-capitalized banking system,” Stephanie Kretz, an
investment strategist at Lombard Odier in London, wrote in a
report. “More liquidity has never turned deficits into
surpluses, reduced debt levels or created growth.”  The U.K. and  France  may be stripped of their top Aaa
ratings, Moody’s said late yesterday as it reduced the debt
rankings of countries including Italy, Spain and  Portugal  on
concern economic weakness may threaten austerity programs and
reforms.  A Commerce Department release in  Washington  said  sales at
American retailers  rose 0.4 percent last month, half the 0.8
percent median forecast of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  German Confidence  The SMI had earlier risen 0.1 percent after German investor
confidence surged to a 10-month high. The ZEW Center for
European Economic Research in Mannheim said its index of
investor and analyst expectations, which aims to predict
economic developments six months in advance, climbed to 5.4 this
month from minus 21.6 in January.  Actelion (ATLN)  declined 5.9 percent to 33.37 Swiss francs, the
biggest drop since Oct. 20. The company forecast that profit
this year will be unchanged as the economic crisis puts pressure
on drug prices and it loses market share to Gilead Sciences Inc.  The Swiss drugmaker also said 120 people died in a clinical
trial of more than 700 patients involving its experimental
medicine macitentan. The drug is “very unlikely” to show a
statistically significant benefit in extending the lives of
patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, though the
company is confident the trial will show patients are helped by
the product, Chief Executive Officer Jean-Paul Clozel said on a
conference call.  Roche Retreats  Roche fell 1.2 percent to 162.20 francs. GlaxoSmithKline
Plc’s Tyverb and Roche’s Herceptin shouldn’t be prescribed for a
certain form of  breast cancer  because of a lack of evidence
showing they extend life, the U.K.’s health-cost agency said.  While both medicines can reduce the growth and spread of
the disease, the extent to which they can improve the overall
survival of patients “appears to be small or undefined,” the
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence said.  Roche shares were cut to “neutral” from “buy” at
Citigroup Inc.    Orascom Development Holding AG (ODHN)  rallied 6.5 percent to
15.50 francs. The builder of a ski resort in the Swiss village
of Andermatt gained the most since September after saying the
project is planned to open to guests in late 2013.  Lem Holding SA (LEHN) , a manufacturer of electrical components,
rose 3.9 percent to 429 francs. The company said reported orders
in the third-quarter climbed to 47 million francs ($51 million)
from 31 million in the earlier quarter.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alexis Xydias in  London  at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net ;
Adria Cimino in Paris at 
 acimino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  