-- Syria Army Shells Homs as UN Human Rights Chief Urges International Action
-- B y   M a s s o u d   A .   D e r h a l l y
-- 2012-02-14T16:47:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/syria-army-shells-homs-as-un-s-pillay-urges-international-action.html
Syria ’s army fired artillery at the
city of Homs as the  United Nations ’ top human-rights official,
 Navi Pillay , urged international action to protect civilians.  Security forces resumed shelling the Baba Amr neighborhood
at 6 a.m. today and carried out attacks in the southern province
of Daraa and Idlib, killing at least 20, Rami Abdel Rahman, head
of the U.K.-based  Syrian Observatory for Human Rights , said by
phone. The assault on Homs began 10 days ago.  “The humanitarian situation is very bad, food and medicine
are scarce, and there is no electricity,” said Abdel Rahman,
who is in touch with a network of activists in Syria. The
shelling of Baba Amr today was the “fiercest” of the past five
days, he said. Nationwide, about 20 people died yesterday, he
said, including in the city of Rastan, which was hit by heavy
artillery and machine-gun attacks.  At the UN General Assembly, Pillay, the high commissioner
for human rights, said yesterday that the suffering of Syrian
civilians will increase as long as the international community
fails to take action. The UN estimated as of Jan. 10 that more
than 5,400 people had died in President Bashar al-Assad’s
suppression of protests that began in March 2011.  Security Council Veto  Russia and  China  on Feb. 4 vetoed a UN Security Council
resolution supported by the  Arab League  aimed at installing a
transitional government to be followed by elections. Syria’s
army has intensified attacks since the resolution was vetoed,
deploying tanks, armored vehicles and using heavy artillery and
machine guns, according to activists.  The Arab League has called for the formation of an Arab-UN
peacekeeping force. The league said on Feb. 12 it will ask the
Security Council to authorize a joint mission to supervise
implementation of a cease-fire, to replace an Arab League
observation mission that was suspended as violence against
protesters continued. Syria has rejected the plan.  “The risk of a humanitarian crisis throughout Syria is
rising,” Pillay said. She said crimes against humanity have
probably been committed, and called on the  Security Council  to
refer the matter to the  International Criminal Court .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Massoud A. Derhally in Beirut, Lebanon at 
 mderhally@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  