-- Syria Uprising Gives Opportunity for Sunni Saudis to ‘Defang’ Shiite Iran
-- B y   F l a v i a   K r a u s e - J a c k s o n   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-14T01:59:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/syria-uprising-gives-opportunity-for-sunni-saudis-to-defang-shiite-iran.html
Syrian unrest is giving  Saudi Arabia 
an opportunity to weaken rival Shiite Iran, which has been
closely allied with Syrian President Bashar al-Assad.  Saudi Arabia is taking steps to force regime change in
 Syria , while seeking to thwart any Arab Spring contagion in
 Persian Gulf states . The Sunni monarchy, which tolerates little
dissent at home, has joined with Qatar, another Gulf monarchy,
in leading efforts to isolate Syria internationally.  Toppling the Assad regime would deny Iran its most
important regional ally and allow Sunni Gulf nations to break
Iran’s ‘Shiite crescent” of influence that extends through
Iraq, Syria and Lebanon and into the Palestinian territories,
say analysts such as  Marina Ottaway  of the Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace, a policy group in Washington. Beyond
fears that Iran aims to extend its regional influence, Persian
Gulf countries also compete with the Persian nation for oil
markets.  “Syria represents an irresistible opportunity to defang
Iran,” said Jeff Laurenti, a  United Nations  analyst at the
Century Foundation, a New York-based research group. “Assad has
been a thorn on the side of the Saudis.”  Even as Saudi Arabia rolled tanks across the border to
snuff out a fledging uprising in the neighboring Sunni kingdom
of Bahrain, the Saudis were outspoken in decrying human rights
abuses in Syria.  The effort to weaken Assad “involves Saudi money and a
Saudi diplomatic presence, but it doesn’t use Saudi territory
and it's unlikely to have direct military effects,” according to
 Jon Alterman , director of the Middle East program at the Center
for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington policy
group.  Turkey’s Stake  The turmoil also has become a means for  Turkey , which
shares a border with Syria, to exercise its leadership ambitions
in the Arab world. Turkey is driven by concerns of refugee
flows, unrest on its doorstep and, on the part of Prime Minister
Recep Erdogan, a sense of personal betrayal.  Erdogan, whose family used to vacation with Assad’s,
“feels that he was lied to by Bashar over promises that he’d
end the violence and reform,” said Steven Heydemann of the
United States Institute of Peace, a congressionally funded, non-
partisan policy group.  There has been speculation that the Turks and Saudis were
competing for the loyalties of Syria’s Sunni population,
Heydemann said. For now, he added, they have a mutual interest
in avoiding rivalry while their goals on Syria are aligned.  Saudi Resolution  This week at the UN, the Saudis submitted a draft
resolution for the 193-member General Assembly in support of an
 Arab League  plan for Assad to step aside, after  Russia  and  China 
vetoed a similar  Security Council  resolution. No vetoes apply to
non-binding resolutions in the General Assembly, where a vote
may take place this week.  The Saudis, a predominantly Sunni society, have been at
odds with Iran since its 1979 Islamic revolution. While the
majority of Syria’s population is Sunni, Assad’s family are
Alawites, an offshoot of the Shiite branch of Islam that
predominates in Iran. With Iran, Syria backs the Lebanese
Hezbollah movement and Hamas in the  Gaza Strip , both considered
terrorist groups by Israel and the U.S.  Displaying a break from his usual reserve, 87-year-old
Saudi King Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz took an indirect swipe at
Russia and China for using their Security Council vetoes on Feb.
4. “No matter how powerful, countries cannot rule the whole
world,” he said in a nationally televised address on Feb. 10.
“The world is ruled by brains, by justice, by morals and by
fairness.”  Blunt Talk  Behind closed doors, the king has been clear where he
stands on  Iran . He urged the U.S. to “cut off the head of the
snake” in an April 2008 meeting with then-U.S. Ambassador to
Iraq  Ryan Crocker  and U.S. General David Petraeus, according to
a  classified diplomatic cable  published by Wikileaks in November
2010.  Failure by the UN’s decision-making body to deliver
international condemnation of Assad’s deadly crackdown has left
his neighbors and their Western allies with dwindling options on
how to end a conflict that is descending into civil war. The
Arab League has already suspended Syria and imposed economic
sanctions on it.  Looking for fresh ways to intensify pressure on Assad, the
22-member league called for the formation of an Arab-UN
peacekeeping force, a step unlikely to succeed as it requires
approval from the Security Council where Russia has veto powers.  Strategic Interests  For the Qataris, who never had a close relationship with
the Assads, the unrest has become “simply another opportunity
to raise their profile regionally,” said Heydemann. Qatar took
on a very prominent role in helping Libyan rebels overcome
 Muammar Qaddafi .  The Saudi activism on Syria is unusual and guided by a twin
desire to contain the bloodshed and avoid a spillover into
Lebanon and Jordan, as well as by its strategic interest to
nudge Syria into the Sunni orbit, according to  Robert Danin , a
senior fellow at the  Council on Foreign Relations  in  Washington .  Saudis may be banking on the Muslim Brotherhood, which led
an armed insurgency against Assad’s father three decades ago,
according to Danin. The government’s increasing brutality is
reminiscent of 1982 when Hafez al-Assad crushed a rebellion in
the city of Hama, killing thousands.  “They look at Syria and they see all the ways it could go
badly and they want to ensure it doesn’t,” Danin said in a
telephone interview. “There was a period when the Arab world
saw Assad as awful but better than the potential alternative.
That is not the case anymore.”  Turkey faces the prospect of Syrian refugees flowing over
its border. The Turks have to be careful not to alienate
Syrians, the Iranians, with whom they have traditionally had a
close trade relationship, and the Russians. And they are a non-
Arab, predominately Muslim country pushing for a leadership role
in the Arab world.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Flavia Krause-Jackson in United Nations at 
 fjackson@bloomberg.net ;
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net  and  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Walcott at 
 jwalcott9@bloomberg.net  