-- U.K. Top Chefs Select London’s Finest Restaurants for Visitors
-- B y   R i c h a r d   V i n e s
-- 2012-02-14T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-k-top-chefs-select-london-s-finest-restaurants-for-visitors.html
If a visitor to the U.K. asked you
which  London  restaurant is currently best, what would you say?  I put that question to more than 40 chefs and restaurateurs
for their recommendations. Here are their comments:  Tom Aikens  (Tom Aikens): “Roganic. It’s great, adventurous
food, striving for perfection, using the best and most
interesting ingredients. I like the fact that they push some
boundaries, but the bottom line is that the food is delicious.”  Joel Antunes (Kitchen Joel Antunes): “Bar Boulud. It’s got
a great ambience and it’s good value for money, plus Daniel Boulud has always been a friend and supporter.”  Jason Atherton (Pollen Street Social): “Quo Vadis is the
most exciting restaurant in London at the moment. Jeremy Lee’s
cooking is outstanding.”  Pascal Aussignac (Club Gascon): “Dabbous is best for
food.”  Sat Bains (Restaurant Sat Bains, Nottingham): “The Fat
Duck is just the best restaurant in the U.K. for me. I’m still
as excited whenever I go as the first time.”  Claude Bosi (Hibiscus): “Arbutus. It’s relaxed and the
quality of food is to the highest standards. Anthony is one of
the best cooks in London and it’s not to be missed.”  Daniel Boulud  (Bar Boulud): “CUT by Wolfgang Puck for
steak; The Ledbury for British haute cuisine; Dinner by Heston
Blumenthal for casual British fare.”  Sally Clarke (Clarke’s): “The Delaunay. It’s just such a
beautiful restaurant, particularly at night.”  Anthony Demetre (Arbutus): “Hibiscus for a unique and
individual experience at top-end level. There are a lot of
places: All differ enormously in style and pocket. I’ve had two
excellent meals at Hedone.”  Chris Galvin (Galvin at Windows): “The Square.”  Alexis Gauthier (Gauthier Soho): “Bob Bob Ricard is one of
my favorite places on earth, it has to be a contender for one of
the most unique restaurants in London.”  Brett Graham (The Ledbury): “Petersham Nurseries is hard
to beat on a sunny day. The food is beautifully cooked, always
delicious and seasonal.”  Trevor Gulliver (St John): “Dinner by  Heston Blumenthal ,
although it’s a bit like  Les Mis : Everything is great but every
night is the same performance.”  Des Gunewardena (Launceston Place/D&D London): “Dinner by
Heston Blumenthal for a visitor, because it’s Heston, and for a
restaurant experience, it’s still hard to beat Scott’s.”  Skye Gyngell (ex-Petersham Nurseries): “Dinings. I really
like it there and that’s where I would take visitors.”  Anna Hansen (Modern Pantry): “Dabbous.”  Sam Harris (Zucca): “Magdalen, on Tooley Street. It’s not
a new restaurant but it’s always amazing, I’ve never had a bad
meal there, and I can be really fussy.”  Sam Hart  (Fino): “River Cafe has long been my favorite in
London. They only used the finest of ingredients, cooked
perfectly. Fiendishly expensive but splendid for a treat.”  Angela Hartnett  (Murano): “Le Gavroche, if you want old-
style classic London; for a family, one of the Hix restaurants.
At Christmas, with my brother and his family from  New York , we
went to Hix at Selfridges: Great menu and pleased everyone.”  Mark Hix (Hix Belgravia): “Trishna. I went along expecting
just another of these fancy Indian places but the food was
really good.”  Jacob Kenedy (Bocca Di Lupo): “Sweetings. It isn’t du jour
but it is the most ‘London’ eating experience you’ll find and
one of the most enjoyable.”  Tom Kitchin (Kitchin, Edinburgh): “Koffmann’s. I have
never had a bad meal and its always seasonal and robust.”  Pierre Koffmann (Koffmann’s): “Texture. I’ve never had a
bad meal there. The food is very good and the people are nice.
The Ledbury is fantastic, too, and the Square.”  Atul Kochhar (Benares): “Dinner by Heston Blumenthal.”  Adam Perry Lang (Barbecoa): “River Cafe. It’s my absolute
favorite because they always deliver on their promise; fight for
the integrity of product, not overly staged assembly-line
cooking, balanced and thoughtful from start to finish. It is
unmoved by economy when embracing the seasons.”  Jeremy Lee (Quo Vadis): “River Cafe. Lunch on the terrace
in June is glorious. Razor clams and a Bloody Mary at the bar of
Le Caprice are splendid. Set lunch at Le Gavroche. I’m surprised
at Fergus (Henderson) not yet receiving a dukedom and the Garter
for St John.”  Rowley Leigh (Le Cafe Anglais): “River Cafe. Sorry to be
boring but nowhere else stands out, apart from, perhaps, Le
Gavroche. The Ledbury should get a mention not just for the food
but for the really exceptional and fair wine list.”  Bruno Loubet (Bistrot Bruno Loubet): “The Ledbury. This
may be the restaurant of the moment but it is completely
justified.  Brett Graham  is an enthusiastic young chef,
delivering exceptional food, but he still has more to come.”  Francesco Mazzei (L’Anima): “Hakkasan. They’re keeping up
the standards.”  David Moore  (Pied a Terre): “The Ledbury. It’s not just
good cooking, it’s brilliant cooking, from the inspirational
Brett Graham. A rare thing, a chef who is in his kitchen.”  Nuno Mendes (Viajante): “Young Turks at the Ten Bells.
It’s different but still produces food that is pure and fun.”  Russell Norman (Mishkin’s): “The River Cafe for occasion
dining with exceptional cooking. For casual dining with a great
atmosphere, Barrafina is hard to beat. It depends on what you
mean by best.”  Jamie Oliver  (Jamie’s Italian): “St John Hotel. I’ve had
two amazing meals there and they are doing a brilliant job. The
food is earthy and robust but with a lightness of touch. Brett
Graham at The Ledbury is one of the hottest chefs in the city
right now. Yes he’s got two stars, but he’s also out there
foraging and shooting his own produce. Top talent.”  Stevie Parle (Dock Kitchen): “St John. It’s wonderful and
kind of British, so good for visitors.”  Gary Rhodes  (Rhodes Twenty Four): “Galvin La Chapelle or
any of the Galvin restaurants.”  Simon Rogan (Roganic): “L’Atelier de  Joel Robuchon , on a
stool on the ground floor. It’s a fairly laid-back atmosphere,
with amazing food. I order a few things, watch what the chefs
are doing, and order some more. The music is great as well.”  Michel Roux Jr. (Le Gavroche): “34,  Richard Caring ’s new
place. It’s worth popping in for a grill. It’s always exciting
to go somewhere new. Zuma is the kind of place I always end up
going back to and the sushi is just damn good.”  Silvena Rowe (Quince): “Roganic is always the place to
recommend to U.K. visitors, I love the young genius that is Ben
Spalding.”  Mark Sargeant (Rocksalt, Folkestone): “Quo Vadis. It’s a
stunning building and now that the legendary Jeremy Lee is there
the food is great: very simple. Or Hawksmoor Seven Dials. The
steaks are incredible. I could go off the rails in that place.”  Leonid Shutov (Bob Bob Ricard): “Veeraswamy if the
visitors are Americans. It’s old school. For Eastern Europeans,
I’d recommend somewhere new and glittery, like Novikov.”  Rick Stein (Seafood Restaurant, Padstow): “Bocca di Lupo
is the place I keep returning to. You could best describe it as
Italian tapas, lots of small dishes. They do good deep-fried
artichokes and roast suckling pig and chestnuts with wine and
bay.”  Agnar Sverrisson (Texture): “Dabbous is fantastic:
Creative yet simple flavors, well-executed cooking. I like their
small plates and there is nowhere else like it in London.”  Ben Tish (Salt Yard): “Quo Vadis. I’ve already been twice
since Jeremy Lee recently took over as head chef and I think he
has taken it to a new level. It’s lots of fun and the new-look
dining room is beautiful.”  Clive Watson (Riding House Cafe): “The Ivy. Call me
unfashionable and out of sync but I’m confident that any visitor
will enjoy a memorable experience and generous atmosphere.”  Mickael Weiss (Coq d’Argent): “Le Gavroche is an
institution, one of the best restaurants where service, food and
ambience are always faultless.”  Alyn Williams (Alyn Williams at the Westbury): “The
Ledbury for dinner, and Roganic for a long lunch. Both are
pushing culinary boundaries with innovative dishes and friendly
service, but at the heart of it are serving beautiful food.”  (Richard Vines is the chief food critic for Muse, the arts
and leisure section of Bloomberg News. He is U.K. and Ireland
chairman of the World’s 50 Best Restaurants awards. Opinions
expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Richard Vines in London at 
 rvines@bloomberg.net  or  http://twitter.com/Richardvines .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 