-- Pound Slides After Moody’s Says U.K.’s Aaa Rating at Risk; Gilts Advance
-- B y   E m m a   C h a r l t o n
-- 2012-02-14T16:15:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-k-s-pound-weakens-to-two-week-low-after-moody-s-says-aaa-rating-at-risk.html
The pound dropped the most in a
month against the dollar after Moody’s Investors Service said
the U.K. risks losing its top-grade  credit rating  should the
economy deteriorate.  Sterling weakened versus 12 of its 16 major counterparts
after the rating company said late yesterday the change to a
“negative outlook” for Britain’s Aaa rated debt was a “weaker
macroeconomic environment.” The currency extended losses
against the euro after a German report showed investor
confidence improved to a 10-month high. Gilts rose.  Moody’s “has given sterling a punch in the ribs,” said
Lee McDarby, head of dealing on the corporate and institutional
treasury desk at Investec Bank Plc in London. “Compounding
that, firmer ZEW confidence figures have kept the downward
pressure on the pound against the euro.”  The pound depreciated 0.6 percent to $1.5676 at 4:08 p.m.
London time after falling as much as 0.7 percent, the most since
Jan. 11. The currency has dropped 1.4 percent in the past week.
Sterling declined 0.2 percent to 83.82 pence per euro.  Moody’s said Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
needs to stick to the plan to maintain confidence. Even then,
the U.K. will be vulnerable to shocks that could blow his plans
off course given the limited room for a policy response.  “For me it was a reality check,” Osborne told BBC Radio
4’s “Today” show today. “It’s yet another reminder that
Britain doesn’t have an easy way out of its economic problems.”  Pound’s Decline  The pound has declined 1.6 percent this year according to
Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track 10
developed-nation currencies. Over the past 12 months it has
weakened 4.5 percent.  Reports today showed inflation slowed and the  property
market  remained sluggish. The  Royal Institution  of Chartered
Surveyors said its U.K. house-price index was unchanged at minus
16 in January from the previous month, indicating more surveyors
saw price declines than gains, it said in a statement today.  The  Office for National Statistics  said  consumer prices 
rose an annual 3.6 percent in January, the least in 14 months.  The 10-year breakeven rate, a gauge of inflation
expectations derived from the difference in yield between
regular and index-linked bonds, fell for a third day. The rate
dropped three basis points to 2.7 percentage points.  Gilts Gain  The yield on the  10-year gilt  dropped four basis points, or
0.04 percentage point, to 2.09 percent. The 3.75 percent bond
due in September 2021 gained 0.32, or 3.20 pounds per 1,000-
pound face amount, to 114.295. The 30-year yield slid five basis
points to 3.27 percent.  “Whatever the situation on the fiscal side and whatever
the rating, as long as you have the central bank supporting your
debt, the impact remains limited” from Moody’s announcement,
said  Patrick Jacq , a senior fixed-income strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in Paris.  The central bank announced an additional 50 billion-pound
round of bond purchases on Feb. 9 after gross domestic product
fell 0.2 percent in the last three months of 2011. The Monetary
Policy Committee kept its benchmark  interest rate  at a record-
low 0.5 percent the same day.  The  Bank of England  will release new economic and inflation
forecasts tomorrow. In November, the central bank predicted
consumer-price growth would slow to 1.7 percent by year-end,
below its 2 percent target.  Gilts have lost 1.7 percent this year, after returning
almost 17 percent in 2011, according to indexes compiled by
Bloomberg and the European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies. German debt lost 0.6 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Charlton in  London  at 
 echarlton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  