-- U.K. House-Price Index Points to Continued Weakness in January
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-02-14T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-k-house-price-index-points-to-continued-weakness-in-january.html
A U.K.  house-price index  showed that
the  property market  remained weak last month as an uncertain
economic outlook and tight lending conditions hurt demand,
according to the  Royal Institution  of Chartered Surveyors.  The gauge by London-based RICS was unchanged at minus 16
from the previous month, indicating more surveyors saw price
declines than gains, it said in a statement today. Still, the
measure stayed at a 17-month high as “temporary factors”
helped bolster housing activity.  Britain’s economy shrank 0.2 percent in the fourth quarter
as rising  unemployment , the government’s budget squeeze and the
euro-area debt crisis deterred Britons from spending. Property
demand may be supported in the coming weeks as Britons move to
beat the March expiration of an exemption from stamp duty
property-transaction tax for first-time buyers on homes costing
less than 250,000 pounds ($394,500), RICS said.  “Many problems with the market still exist and the lack of
affordable mortgage finance is still preventing many from
getting onto the property ladder,” RICS housing spokesman
Michael Newey said in the statement. “Prices are still falling
across most parts of the country, but expectations for future
prices have become less pessimistic.”  RICS’s index of price expectations for the next three
months climbed to minus 15 in January from minus 23 in December,
and a gauge of expected sales surged to 24 from 1. Its measure
of new buyer enquiries, an indicator of demand, slipped to minus
7 from 2 and a measure of sales per surveyor rose to 15.6 from
15.3.  RICS said the survey “highlights a moderately negative
price picture.”  London Rising  London  recorded a price gauge of 37 in January, one of only
two out of the 12 regions tracked by RICS to show a reading
above zero. The measure for the  Wales  was the weakest, at minus
54, followed by the West Midlands, at minus 42.  Data today may show that U.K.  inflation  weakened to a 14-
month low in January. Consumer prices gained an annual 3.6
percent after a 4.2 percent gain in December, according to the
median forecast of 36 economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Policy makers, who forecast that consumer-price gains will
slow this year to below their goal, are pumping another  50
billion pounds  into the economy after saying on Feb. 9 that the
outlook remains weak. The  Office for National Statistics  in
London will publish the inflation data at 9:30 a.m. in London.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  