-- U.K. Commercial Property Prices Fall for Third Month on Economy
-- B y   N e i l   C a l l a n a n
-- 2012-02-14T15:26:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-k-commercial-property-prices-fall-for-third-month-on-economy.html
U.K. commercial real estate prices
fell for the third consecutive month in January as a slowing
economy hurt demand for all types of property.  The average value of stores, offices and warehouses
declined 0.2 percent in January from a year earlier, Investment
Property Databank Ltd. said today in a statement on its website.
Warehouse-type properties led the decline, falling 0.3 percent,
the London-based research company said.  “It’s no surprise that demand from tenants remains
lackluster across all sectors. The recent quantitative easing
announcement by the  Bank of England  shows just how hard the
authorities are trying to increase spending,” Phil Tily,
managing director for the U.K. and Ireland, said in the
statement.  The Bank of  England  plans to pump another 50 billion pounds
into the U.K. economy as it tries to prevent a slide back into
recession. Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said on
Jan. 25 that Britain had “substantial economic problems” and
dealing with them has become more difficult because of the
sovereign debt crisis affecting countries that share the euro
currency.  U.K. commercial real estate prices fell 0.1 percent in
December and 0.02 percent in November after gaining 17.8 percent
in the previous 27 months of continuous growth. Prices dropped
44.2 percent from their July 2007 peak to their low point in
July 2009, according to IPD. Values may fall by 5.9 percent this
year, JPMorgan Chase & Co. said in a Jan. 13 note to investors.  Total return, which combines the change in property values
and rental income, was 7.8 percent in the 12 months to November,
IPD said. The index was compiled from appraisals of 3,628
properties valued at 33.9 billion pounds ($53.2 billion) at the
end of January, IPD said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Neil Callanan in  London  at 
 ncallanan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ross Larsen in London at 
 rlarsen2@bloomberg.net . 