-- U.S. January Import and Export Price Index Report (Text)
-- B y   C h r i s   M i d d l e t o n
-- 2012-02-14T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-s-january-import-and-export-price-index-report-text-.html
The following is the text of the
U.S. import and export price index report from the Bureau of
Labor Statistics.  U.S. import prices rose 0.3 percent in January, the  U.S.
Bureau of Labor Statistics  reported today, after ticking down
0.1 percent in December. Higher prices for both fuel and
nonfuel imports contributed to the January increase. Prices
for U.S. exports also advanced in January, rising 0.2 percent
following a 0.5 percent decline the previous month.  Imports  All Imports:  Overall import prices increased for the second time in
three months in January, rising 0.3 percent following a 0.1
percent downturn in December and a 0.7 percent advance in
November. Prior to the past three months, import prices had
trended mostly down between June and October. However, the
price index for overall imports rose 7.1 percent over the
past 12 months. In January, both a 1.0 percent increase in
fuel prices and a 0.1 percent uptick in nonfuel prices
contributed to the monthly rise.  Fuel Imports:  Prices for import fuels rose 1.0 percent in January
after declining 0.6 percent the previous month and increasing
3.3 percent in November. The January advance was driven by a
1.2 percent rise in petroleum prices. In contrast, prices for
natural gas decreased a further 5.8 percent in January
following a 4.1 percent drop in December. Fuel prices
increased 20.8 percent for the year ended in January, led by
a 23.7 percent advance in petroleum prices, the largest
component of import fuels, which more than offset a 22.5
percent decline in the price index for natural gas.  All Imports Excluding Fuel:  Nonfuel import prices ticked up 0.1 percent in January
after a 0.2 percent advance the previous month. In January,
prices for the major nonfuel categories were mixed. The price
indexes for foods, feeds, and beverages; capital goods; and
automotive vehicles rose for the month, while prices for
nonfuel industrial supplies and materials; and  consumer goods 
declined. Prices for nonfuel imports increased 2.9 percent
over the past year.  Exports  All Exports:  The price index for overall exports rose 0.2 percent in
January, led by higher agricultural prices, after declining
0.5 percent in December. Export prices advanced 2.5 percent
for the year ended in January, the smallest year-over-year
increase since a 0.4 percent rise between November 2008 and
November 2009.  Agricultural Exports:  Prices for agricultural exports rose 1.1 percent in
January after falling 7.3 percent in the final quarter of
2011. An upturn in soybean and corn prices, which increased
6.3 percent and 6.1 percent, respectively, drove the January
advance. Agricultural prices fell 1.0 percent over the last
12 months as lower prices for soybeans, cotton, and wheat
more than offset rising prices for meat, vegetable, and corn.  All Exports Excluding Agriculture:  Nonagricultural prices were unchanged in January after
decreasing in each of the previous three months. In January,
the price indexes for nonagricultural industrial supplies and
materials and for consumer goods decreased, while prices for
capital goods and automotive vehicles rose. The price index
for nonagricultural exports increased 3.0 percent for the
January 2011-12 period, as price increases for
nonagricultural industrial supplies and materials, and each
of the major finished goods categories all contributed to the
advance.  SELECTED JANUARY HIGHLIGHTS
Import Prices
Nonfuel Industrial Supplies and Materials:  Prices for nonfuel industrial supplies and materials
fell 0.8 percent in January, led by a 1.9 percent drop in
unfinished metals prices and a 0.7 percent decline in
chemicals prices. Decreasing prices for nonmonetary gold and
other precious metals were the main contributors to the lower
metals prices, and a 5.4 percent fall in fertilizer prices
drove the decline in the price index for import chemicals.  Finished Goods:  Prices for each of the major finished goods categories
were mixed in January. Prices for capital goods and
automotive vehicles rose for the month, increasing 0.4
percent and 0.5 percent, respectively. In contrast, consumer
goods prices fell for the first time in ten months,
decreasing 0.4 percent in January.  Foods, Feeds, and Beverages:  Foods, feeds, and beverages prices rose 2.3 percent in
January following a 0.4 percent decline in December. The
January increase was led by 14.6 percent advance in the price
index for import vegetables.  Imports by Locality of Origin:  Prices for imports from  China  advanced 0.3 percent in
January and 3.5 percent over the past year. The price index
for imports from China has not recorded a monthly decrease
since a 0.2 percent drop in June 2010. Import prices from
Mexico and  Japan  also rose in January increasing 1.2 percent
and 0.2 percent, respectively. In contrast, prices for
imports from the European Union fell 1.1 percent in January
and import prices from  Canada  declined 0.5 percent.  Transportation Services:  Import air passenger fares increased 0.2 percent in
January following a 1.6 percent advance the previous month.
The January rise was led by a 4.8 percent increase in
European fares, which more than offset declining Asian and
Latin American/Caribbean fares. The price index for import
air freight decreased 3.3 percent in January.  Export Prices
Nonagricultural Industrial Supplies and Materials:  The price index for nonagricultural industrial supplies
and materials fell 0.4 percent in January after a 0.7 percent
decrease in December. The January drop in nonagricultural
industrial supplies and materials prices was led by a 6.3
percent decrease in nonferrous metals prices, unlike December
when the decline was driven by lower fuel prices. Export fuel
prices rose 1.3 percent in January.  Finished Goods:  Both capital goods prices and prices for automotive
vehicles advanced in January, rising 0.4 percent and 0.2
percent, respectively. In contrast, consumer goods prices
fell 0.4 percent in January following a 0.5 percent drop over
the fourth quarter of 2011. The January decline was driven by
lower prices for medicinal, dental, and pharmaceutical
preparatory materials.  Transportation Services:  The index for export air passenger fares increased 3.2
percent after a 3.8 percent rise in December. Higher Asian
and Latin American/Caribbean fares contributed to the
advances in each month. Export air freight prices rose 1.6
percent after ticking up 0.1 percent the previous month.  Import and Export Price Index data for February 2012 are
scheduled for release on Wednesday, March 14, 2012 at 8:30
a.m. (EDT).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Middleton in Washington at   cmiddleton2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  