-- U.S. Envoy Davies to Meet North Korean Aides in First Talks Since Kim Died
-- B y   E u n k y u n g   S e o   a n d   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-02-14T02:32:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-s-envoy-davies-to-meet-north-korean-aides-in-first-talks-since-kim-died.html
A U.S. delegation will meet with
 North Korea  over its nuclear program on Feb. 23 in Beijing in
the first such talks since the death of dictator  Kim Jong Il  and
the succession of his son Kim Jong Un.  Obama administration special envoy Glyn Davies will meet
counterpart Kim Kye Gwan to discuss whether to resume formal
negotiations aimed at persuading North Korea to abandon its
atomic weapons program, State Department spokeswoman  Victoria
Nuland  said yesterday in  Washington . The U.S. was in talks to
provide food aid before the elder Kim’s death on Dec. 17.  “They’ve had a change, so I think the question is whether
they are prepared to respond to what we are looking for in order
to get back to talks,” Nuland told reporters. “We thought that
it was a good time to see where they are.”  International sanctions imposed after two nuclear
detonations, several missile tests and deadly attacks on  South
Korea  have failed to bring Kim’s regime back to the bargaining
table. Before the talks collapsed in December 2008, the U.S.,
South Korea,  China ,  Japan  and Russia pledged economic and
humanitarian aid in return for North Korea’s denuclearization.  Kim Jong Un, thought to be under 30, has given no
indication he is prepared to alter his father’s policies to the
outside world. North Korea last month criticized a U.S. offer
last year for food assistance in return for abandoning its
uranium enrichment program as “politicized,” while leaving
open the possibility for negotiations.  Breakthrough ‘Unlikely’  “The talks will likely focus on food aid in return for
North Korea stopping its uranium enrichment and missile tests,”
said Park Young Ho, a senior research fellow at the Korea
Institute for National Unification in  Seoul . “We may see some
progress as Kim Jong Un needs food to cement his footing, but a
meaningful breakthrough is unlikely as nuclear weapons are one
of the most effective means to sustain the regime.”  Lim Sung Nam, South Korea’s chief nuclear envoy said in an
interview this month that he is “optimistic” that incentives
by the U.S. and his country will persuade the North to return to
talks.  North Korea is boosting trade with China, with which it and
shares a 880-mile (1,416 kilometer) border, as food shortages
have contributed to rising defections. Trade between the
communist allies grew more than 20 percent in 2010 to $6.1
billion, a South Korea government report said last month. North
Korea doesn’t report economic statistics.  North Korea’s gross domestic product contracted 0.5 percent
to 30 trillion won ($26.7 billion) in 2010, compared with South
Korea’s 1,173 trillion won, the  Bank of Korea  said in November.
Per capita income was 1.24 million won compared with South
Korea’s 24 million won.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in Washington at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net ;
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  