-- U.S. Import Prices Climbed 0.3% in January on Higher Costs for Autos, Fuel
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-02-14T13:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-s-import-prices-climbed-0-3-in-january-on-higher-costs-for-autos-fuel.html
Prices of goods imported into the
U.S. rose in January for the second time in six months,
reflecting higher costs for automobiles and petroleum.  The 0.3 percent gain in the  import-price index  follows a
0.1 percent decrease in December, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. The increase matched the median
projection of economists in a Bloomberg News survey. The cost of
imported consumer goods excluding cars fell by the most since
October 2010.  Slower global growth means commodity costs will probably
show little change in coming months, helping limit price
pressures. Federal Reserve policy makers project they’ll keep
 interest rates  low at least until late 2014 amid forecasts that
inflation will fail to accelerate.  “Prospects of slower global growth suggest that import
inflation should continue to moderate,” Sam Bullard, a senior
economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina , said before the report. “Moderating commodity prices,
slower Chinese inflation and a strengthening  U.S. dollar  should
keep import inflation contained over the coming months.”  Projections for import prices ranged from a decrease of 0.2
percent to a 0.8 percent increase, according to the Bloomberg
survey of 48 economists.  Compared with a year earlier, import prices rose 7.1
percent, today’s report showed, compared with an 8.5 percent
increase in the 12 months ended in December.  Prices excluding fuel rose 0.1 percent in January from a
month earlier. The cost of imported petroleum and petroleum
products climbed 1.2 percent from the prior month and was up 24
percent from a year earlier.  Imported Autos, Parts  Imported food was 2.3 percent more expensive last month.
Costs of automobiles made abroad climbed 0.5 percent, the most
since May, and were up 3.9 percent from January 2011.  Consumer goods  import prices excluding vehicles showed a
0.4 percent price decrease, the first drop since March and
biggest decline since October 2010. They were up 2.6 percent
over the past 12 months.  A strengthening of the U.S. dollar over the past three
months may make foreign goods cheaper in the U.S. while
American-made goods become more expensive overseas. Since Oct.
31, the Dollar Index, which IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses
to track the currency against that of six major trade partners
including the euro and yen, has gained 4.1 percent.  The ThomsonReuters/Jeffries CRB commodity index has
averaged 312.75 so far this year, down from an average 321.97 in
the last six months of 2011.  Europe’s Economy  Economies in the euro area will probably cool as countries
from  Greece  to  Italy  take steps to reduce sovereign debt.
Countries in  emerging markets  like  China  and  India  have taken
steps to slow growth.  The cost of imported goods from China increased 0.3 percent
and were up 3.5 percent over the past 12 months.  Imported goods from Japan 0.2 percent, while the cost of
goods from the European Union fell 1.1 percent, the biggest
decrease since December 2008. Goods from  Mexico  jumped 1.2
percent, the most since April.  Fed policy makers see inflation declining in 2012 to below
their 2 percent goal, with most expecting prices to rise 1.4
percent to 1.8 percent this year, according to forecasts
released Jan. 25. In testimony before Congress last week
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said he expects inflation to “remain
subdued.”  Price Sensitivity  Beacon Roofing Supply Inc. (BECN) , a Peabody, Massachusetts-based
roofing materials distributor, said efforts to raise prices to
recoup costs were limited for its complementary building
products unit, that covers materials like siding, windows and
water-proofing systems.  “They still need demand to increase to have some needed
price increases take hold,” Paul Isabella, chief executive
officer, said on an earnings conference call on Feb. 9.  U.S. export prices increased 0.2 percent in January,
today’s report also showed, after falling 0.5 percent the
previous month. Prices of farm exports rose 1.1 percent, and
those of non-farm goods were little changed.  The import-price index is the first of three monthly price
gauges from the Labor Department. Data on producer prices come
out Feb. 16, followed the next day by the consumer-price index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  