-- U.S. Loses $10.4 Million After Failures in Clean-Energy Research
-- B y   B r i a n   W i n g f i e l d
-- 2012-02-14T22:09:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-s-loses-10-4-million-after-failures-in-clean-energy-research.html
The U.S. lost $10.4 million on six
clean-energy projects, including biofuel research at  Iowa State
University , that were suspended for missing performance
milestones, according to the Energy Department.  Iowa State in Ames and  United Technologies Corp. (UTX)  of
Hartford, Connecticut, were among six recipients of a combined
$14.1 million for clean-energy research, Jen Stutsman, an agency
spokeswoman, said today in a phone interview. The unspent cash,
about $3.7 million, will be returned to the  U.S. Treasury , she
said.  The department’s Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy,
known as ARPA-E, since September cut projects that invested in
technologies including  carbon capture  and nanofiber paper,
 Damien LaVera , an agency spokesman, said in an e-mail. ARPA-E
Director Arun Majumdar said yesterday six programs were halted.  “By their very nature, these aggressive research
milestones will often not ‘pan out’ despite the best efforts of
recipients,” LaVera said.  Republicans in Congress have faulted the department’s
oversight of its clean-energy loan-guarantee program. The
department backed companies including solar-panel maker Solyndra
LLC and energy-storage developer  Beacon Power Corp (BCONQ) . Both filed
for  bankruptcy protection  after winning U.S. guarantees for a
combined $578 million. ARPA-E is separate from the program that
backed Solyndra and Beacon.  ‘High-Risk Program’  “ARPA-E has been a high-risk program from the start, and
the fact that several projects are not panning out is not
surprising given the lack of accountability or clear direction
for these dollars,” Representative Fred Upton, a Michigan
Republican and chairman of the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, said in an e-mailed statement.  Iowa State  spent about 56 percent of $4.4 million from the
U.S. for a project to create biofuel feedstock from an aquatic
micro-organism. The agency also ended projects to capture carbon
from coal-fired  power plants , including  Nalco Holding Co. (NLC)  of
Naperville, Illinois, which has about $500,000 left, and United
Technologies, for which $403,898 remains.  The Energy Department has said ARPA-E is a “swing for the
fences” effort to develop cutting-edge clean-energy
technologies, and it anticipates some will fail.  “We will learn not only from projects that succeed but
also from projects that ‘fail,’” according to the program’s
budget request for 2013. “ARPA-E will continue to actively
manage and monitor projects, and will continue to cancel
projects that are not meeting their technical milestones.”  Nanotechnology, Sound Waves  The agency also ceased funding for a project to pump heat
using sound waves and initiatives to use nanotechnology to make
desalination plants and lithium-ion batteries more efficient.
Funds remaining for those projects is $848,266.  LaVera said recipients received notice about missed
milestones and were allowed a chance to get research “back on
track.”  ARPA-E in September awarded $156 million for 60 energy
research projects, primarily at universities including the
 Massachusetts Institute of Technology  and the University of
Florida. Eleven companies with ARPA-E projects have attracted a
combined $200 million from private investors, according to the
Energy Department.  President  Barack Obama  proposed a 27 percent increase in
ARPA-E funding, to $350 million, in his 2013 budget submitted
yesterday to Congress.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Wingfield in Washington at 
 bwingfield3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  