-- U.S. Stocks Pare Losses on Optimism Greece to Back Austerity
-- B y   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 2012-02-14T23:36:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-s-stock-index-futures-are-little-changed-google-advances-in-europe.html
Most U.S. stocks retreated as an
advance in the final half hour spurred by optimism that Greece
will commit to budget cuts stopped short of erasing a decline in
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index.  Bank of America Corp.  slid 3.3 percent as Citigroup Inc.
cut its recommendation.  Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO)  slumped 4.7 percent as talks
on an Asia asset swap are said to have stalled.  Masco (MAS)  Corp.
tumbled 12 percent after the home improvement and building
products maker reported a wider-than-projected  loss .  Boeing Co. (BA) 
added 1 percent after signing a 230-aircraft order worth $22.4
billion, setting a record for the planemaker.  The S&P 500 decreased 0.1 percent to 1,350.50 at 4 p.m. New
York time,  trimming  an earlier decline of as much as 0.8
percent. The  Dow Jones Industrial Average  rose 4.24 points, or
less than 0.1 percent, to 12,878.28 today. Almost two stocks
declined for each that rose on U.S. exchanges.  “To say that Greece doesn’t matter is probably short-
sighted,”  David Goerz , chief investment officer at Highmark
Capital Management Inc., said in a phone interview from  San
Francisco . His firm oversees $17 billion. “There’s a lot of
skepticism on whether  Greece  will be successful. They are trying
to make it work.”  Equities fell earlier today as European finance ministers
canceled a meeting scheduled for tomorrow. After Luxembourg
Prime Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker  canceled the gathering,
citing the lack of political assurances from Greek leaders to
stick to austerity pledges, a government official in  Athens  said
the leaders of Greece’s two biggest political parties, New
Democracy’s Antonis Samaras and Pasok’s George Papandreou, will
provide the written commitments demanded.  Economic Data  A report showing that sales at U.S. retailers rose less
than forecast in January also drove earlier losses. The 0.4
percent  gain  reported by the Commerce Department today in
 Washington  was half the 0.8 percent median forecast of
economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Today’s decline came after the  S&P 500  closed less than 1
percent away from its peak nine months ago of  1,363.61 , which
was the highest level since June 2008. The index has risen 7.4
percent this year as the  U.S. economy  showed signs of
accelerating and European leaders moved closer to a solution on
the region’s debt crisis.  “You’ve had a significant run-up in the market and you
haven’t really had any significant pullback,”  Paul Simon , chief
investment officer at Tactical Allocation Group LLC in
Birmingham,  Michigan , said in a phone interview. His firm
oversees $1.6 billion. “We approached the highs of 2011 and
that’s going to be a resistance in the very, very short term.”  Banks Drop  The  KBW Bank Index (BKX)  fell 1.3 percent as 21 of its 24 stocks
retreated.  Bank of America  lost 3.3 percent, the biggest decline
in the Dow, to $7.98. The stock fell after  Keith Horowitz , an
analyst at Citigroup, cut its rating to “neutral,” meaning he
believes there aren’t enough reasons to take a positive or
negative view on the stock. His previous rating was “buy.”  The recent rally in shares reflects “capital concerns
subsiding, but earnings headwinds persist,” analyst Horowitz
wrote in a note today.  Yahoo slumped 4.7 percent to $15.37. Representatives of
Alibaba and Softbank Corp., co-owner of Yahoo Japan Corp., are
prepared to approach Yahoo Chief Executive Officer Scott Thompson to explore another arrangement that would let companies
buy back their stakes, said a person briefed on the matter. Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, didn’t immediately return a
phone message seeking comment.  Masco, Goodyear  Masco dropped 12 percent, the most in the S&P 500, to
$11.63. It reported a fourth-quarter  loss  from continuing
operations of 9 cents a share, wider than the average analyst
estimate of a loss of 2 cents.  Goodyear Tire & Rubber Co. (GT)  sank 5.2 percent to $13.25 after
reporting fourth-quarter  profit  that was less than analysts’
estimates as the number of tires sold declined 5 percent.  First Solar Inc. (FSLR)  fell 6 percent to $39.21. The maker of
thin-film solar panels may “have the most near term downside
risk” under a German proposal to cut subsidies that is likely
to be “worse than expected,” Deutsche Bank AG said in a note.  Boeing gained 1 percent, the second biggest advance in the
Dow, to $75.56. The accord with Indonesian budget carrier PT
Lion Mentari Airlines today at the Singapore Airshow, which
solidifies a provisional agreement last year, includes 201
orders for the in-development 737 MAX and 29 for the extended
range 737-900.  Cutting Jobs  Avon Products Inc. (AVP)  climbed 1.5 percent to $17.80. The door-
to-door cosmetics seller conducting an internal bribery probe
said it will cut jobs and identify other ways to reduce costs.  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  rose 1.4 percent to $509.46, gaining for an
eighth day. That’s the longest winning streak since July 26. The
largest technology company yesterday surpassed $500 for the
first time.  Dividend-paying stocks are still a “winning theme” for
investors even though they have gotten off to a relatively slow
start this year, according to Gina Martin Adams, a strategist at
Wells Fargo Securities LLC.  While the Standard & Poor’s 500 Dividend Aristocrats Index
rose 4.2 percent for the year through yesterday, the gain was
2.6 percentage points smaller than the S&P 500’s advance. By
contrast, the indicator fared better than the S&P 500 in the
past two years, its first back-to-back wins since 2002. The
index is comprised of companies that have raised payouts for at
least 25 consecutive years, relative to the S&P 500.  Payout ratios suggest companies can distribute plenty more
money to shareholders, Martin Adams wrote yesterday in a report.
She noted that dividends equal 27 percent of S&P 500 earnings,
the lowest figure in more than a century, according to  data 
compiled by Yale University Professor  Robert Shiller .  “Companies may be only just beginning to catch on to the
fact that investors are keenly interested in dividend-paying
stocks,” the report said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  