-- Volcker Rule Faces Critics as Effective Date Nears
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s ,   S i l l a   B r u s h   a n d   P h i l   M a t t i n g l y
-- 2012-02-15T16:13:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-s-volcker-rule-faces-harsh-global-critics-months-before-it-takes-effect.html
(Corrects title of HSBC’s Alderoty in 15th paragraph of
story published Feb. 14.)  The world’s largest banks demanded a
wish list of changes to a proposed U.S. ban on proprietary
trading, seeking to escalate the lobbying effort against the
Volcker rule five months before it takes effect.  In scores of comment letters filed yesterday, bankers and
their trade associations said the so-called Volcker rule would
increase risk, raise investor costs, hurt U.S. competitiveness
and be vulnerable to legal challenge.  “The proposal, if implemented in its current form, will
overly restrain our customer-facing market-making business and
our risk-mitigating hedging activities to the detriment of our
customers,”  Colm Kelleher , co-president of  Morgan Stanley (MS) ’s
institutional securities group, and  Jim Rosenthal , the firm’s
chief operating officer, wrote in a letter posted to the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s website. “Moreover, we
believe that the proposal, if implemented as is, would have
severe negative consequence for the markets and the U.S.
financial system.”  The rule, named for former Federal Reserve Chairman  Paul Volcker , was included in the Dodd-Frank Act to restrict risky
trading at banks that operate with federal guarantees. The Fed
and three other regulators released the 298-page proposal in
October, seeking comment on how it would affect market-making,
liquidity, foreign institutions and private equity and hedge
fund investments. The CFTC released its proposal separately in
January.  Uncertainty, Volatility  Reduced liquidity resulting from the Volcker rule would
lead to “price uncertainty, market volatility, higher
transaction costs, and a reduced ability for corporations and
other market participants to raise capital and hedge their
risks,” the Morgan Stanley executives said in their letter.  “Regardless of how the final rule turns out, it will be a
shock to the U.S. financial system, as banking entities will
need to take extraordinary measures to attempt to implement
it,” Barry Zubrow, executive vice president of  JPMorgan Chase &
Co . wrote in a 67-page letter.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  joined its Wall Street rivals in
submitting comments by yesterday’s deadline.  David Wells , a
company spokesman, said Goldman Sachs wouldn’t release or
comment on its response, which hadn’t been posted by regulators.  Volcker, who championed the trading restrictions while
serving as an adviser to President Barack Obama, defended the
regulators’ proposal in his own comment letter yesterday,
challenging banks’ arguments that the rule would hurt markets.  ‘Spectacular’ Losses  “The recent years of financial crisis have seen
spectacular trading losses in large commercial and investment
banks here and abroad,” said Volcker, 84. “Consequently, the
stability of important banks was jeopardized, contributing to a
financial crisis of historic dimension.”  The restrictions may limit banks’ trading profits -- once a
prime source of Wall Street revenue. JPMorgan, Goldman Sachs and
Morgan Stanley are among banks that have shuttered or made plans
to spin off proprietary trading groups in anticipation of the
rule.  Citigroup (C)  is following suit, closing its Equity Principal
Strategies business, according to a memo by Derek Bandeen, the
bank’s head of equities, that was obtained by Bloomberg News.  The proposal released in October by the Fed, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp., the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency and the Securities and Exchange Commission drew more
than 14,000 comments, ranging from a two-page letter of
opposition by  Michel Barnier , the European Union’s financial
services commissioner, to five letters of protest from the
Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association totaling
379 pages.  ‘Such an Avalanche’  “I’ve never seen such an avalanche,” said Douglas Landy,
a banking partner at law firm Allen & Overy LLP in  New York  who
has been following regulation for 18 years. The Volcker rule has
become “the defining fight of this generation” in financial
rulemaking, said Landy, whose firm represents Canadian and other
foreign banks opposed to the rule.  Officials from Canada, Japan, the U.K. and the European
Banking Federation sent letters to the U.S. Treasury Department
and other regulators saying the measure would harm global
liquidity and international cooperation. G-20 leaders haven’t
endorsed the rule, which exempts U.S. government debt but not
non-U.S.  government bonds .  ‘Limit the Scope’  Regulators should “limit the scope of the rule only to the
territory of the United States,”Barnier wrote. “The current
exemption for non-U.S. banks as well as for activities outside
of the U.S. would appear very restrictive.”  Stuart Alderoty, senior executive vice president and
general counsel for  HSBC’s North America Holdings (HSBA)  unit,
complained that the proposed rule “would apply not only to
transactions with a U.S. counterparty, but also to transactions
that have limited connections to the United States.”  “As currently drafted,” Alderoty said, “the proposed
rule would limit the ability of our Hong Kong affiliate, which
is independently capitalized, to purchase for its own account
securities traded on a U.S. exchange, or trade for its own
account utilizing a U.S. agent to effect a transaction.”  Michael Williams , managing director of  Credit Suisse (CSGN) 
Securities LLC, said the rule could hurt the  U.S. economy .  ‘Job Losses’  “The practical impact of this narrow interpretation is
likely to be reduced liquidity in U.S. markets and securities,
migration of trading activities to other financial centers
outside of the United States, and the development of alternative
trading platforms outside of the United States, all of which are
likely to lead to job losses,” Williams wrote.  Bank of America ’s fixed income and equities employs more
than 1,500 salespeople globally to cover institutional clients,
said Edward P. O’Keefe, executive vice president and general
counsel. Hedge funds and other non-covered entities are “not
scaled for and not in the business of meeting the liquidity
demands of customers,” he said.  “Hedge funds are purely proprietary traders,” O’Keefe
said. “Covered banking entities, on the other hand, are
expected to provide liquidity to their clients, even in
distressed markets, and the agencies should not introduce new
risks to the economy by assuming that these other unproven and
untested sources of liquidity will materialize.”  Two-Year Transition  The Volcker rule is set to take effect in July even if the
rule-making is still in progress, and would include a two-year
transition period. The Fed would then have the ability to issue
one-year implementation extensions on a case-by-case basis.  “I can’t see how they would put all of this into effect by
July,” said Joseph Engelhard, senior vice president of Capital
Alpha Partners LLC. “There’s no way the banks will have all the
infrastructure in place so they will have to delay parts even if
they keep it similar to how it is.”  The proposal included a series of exemptions for
permissible market-making trading, underwriting and hedging
transactions. Lawmakers exempted market-making from the rule,
along with certain forms of hedging and underwriting, because of
concerns that a broad ban on proprietary trading could bring
some U.S. and world markets to a halt.  “The proposal will severely limit banking entities’
ability to hedge their own risk, thereby increasing rather than
decreasing the risk to banking entities and the financial
system,” the Clearing House Association, American Bankers
Association, Sifma and the Financial Services Roundtable said in
a joint 173-page  letter .  Cost-Benefit Analysis  The industry groups also warned that the cost-benefit
analysis in the Volcker rule didn’t meet the standards set in a
court case overturning an SEC rule last year. The letter
referenced the  Business Roundtable ’s victory against the SEC,
which overturned the so-called proxy access rule because of an
inadequate analysis of the costs. The U.S. Court of Appeals in
Washington agreed with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce and Business
Roundtable.  Regional banks including  PNC Financial Services Group Inc. (PNC) 
and  US Bancorp (USB)  submitted a letter urging regulators to increase
the threshold for Volcker rule compliance to $10 billion from $1
billion to protect trading by firms that weren’t the “principal
intended focus” of the measure.  “Because the proposed rules fail to clearly protect such
bona fide activities, banking organizations like ours will
operate in a continuous zone of uncertainty -- unclear whether
legitimate activities and trades will on a post-hoc basis be
determined by an agency to constitute impermissible proprietary
trading,” the companies said in a joint letter that was also
signed by  Capital One Financial Corp. (COF) ,  SunTrust Banks Inc. (STI) , BB&T
Corp., Fifth Third Bancorp,  Regions Financial Corp. (RF)  and KeyCorp.  Not all the comment letters opposed the proposed rule.
Senators Carl Levin of Michigan and Jeff Merkley of Oregon, the
Democrats who drafted the provision, called the proposal from
regulators “too tepid” and said it did “not fulfill the law’s
promise.”  “Instead, the proposed rule seems focused on minimizing
its own potential impact,” the lawmakers said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Silla Brush in Washington at 
 sbrush@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Mattingly in Washington at 
 pmattingly@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  