-- Fed’s Williams Says U.S. Monetary Policy Throttle Should Be Kept Wide Open
-- B y   A k i   I t o   a n d   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e
-- 2012-02-14T08:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/u-s-throttle-should-be-wide-open-fed-official.html
Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco President  John Williams  said the U.S. central bank
should keep trying to boost growth because it’s missing its
goals for employment and price stability, while stopping short
of calling for more asset purchases for now.  “I’m sticking with my story that economic growth won’t be
that strong,” Williams told reporters yesterday after
delivering a speech in Claremont,  California . “Going forward,
it’s about weighing the costs and benefits of doing more,” he
said, adding that he’s looking “at the broad picture for what
the outlook on the economy is” instead of a specific threshold
that would signal that more easing was unnecessary.  Williams, a voting member on the policy-setting  Federal
Open Market Committee  this year, said that inflation is likely
to be about 1.5 percent this year and next, below the central
bank’s goal of 2 percent. He also said the current 8.3 percent
 unemployment rate  is “very far from maximum employment,” and
that joblessness “will remain well over 7 percent for several
more years.”  The FOMC said last month borrowing costs will remain low at
least through late 2014, pushing back an earlier date of
mid-2013, to help the two-year recovery gain traction. It also
voted to maintain its maturity-extension program, announced in
September to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in the
Fed’s portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to
further lower borrowing costs.  Minimizing Damage  “It’s vital that we keep the monetary policy throttle wide
open,” Williams said yesterday. “This will help lower
unemployment and raise inflation back toward levels consistent
with our mandates. And we want to do so quickly to minimize
total economic damage.”  Some policy makers are more optimistic about the economic
outlook.  James Bullard , president of the St. Louis Fed, said on
Feb. 3 that recent data, including that day’s report that the
unemployment rate fell to 8.3 percent in January, have been
“surprising to the upside.”  “I need to see significant deterioration in the economy
and some threat of deflation or inflation moving significantly
below our inflation target before I would consider more QE,”
Williams said yesterday, referring to bond purchases known as
quantitative easing.  The  jobless rate  last month was the lowest since February
2009, and payrolls climbed by 243,000, the most in nine months
and more than the most optimistic forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey.  ‘Lackluster’ Recovery  Even so, Williams called the economy’s recovery from the
worst recession since the Great Depression “lackluster,” and
“marked by weak demand and a still very high unemployment
rate” in his remarks to students at  Claremont McKenna College .  “The Fed is committed to achieving maximum employment and
price stability,” said Williams, 49, who became the San
Francisco Fed’s president in March 2011 after two years as its
director of research. “And we’re doing everything in our power
to move towards those goals.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said last week that the
unemployment rate understates weakness in the labor market since
some people are leaving the workforce because they can’t find
jobs, and others are taking part-time work because they can’t
find full-time employment.  Williams on Feb. 8 forecast growth of 2.25 percent this
year, slower than the 2.8 percent annual pace in the fourth
quarter. His estimate is in line with the 2.2 percent median
forecast of 79 economists in a survey by Bloomberg News
conducted from Feb. 3 to Feb. 9.  Stocks Rise  U.S. stocks rose yesterday, after the first weekly loss for
the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index in 2012, as  Greece  approved
austerity plans to secure rescue funds. The  S&P 500  advanced 0.7
percent to 1,351.77 at 4 p.m. New York time.  The  rally  put the S&P 500 less than 1 percent away from its
peak nine months ago of 1,363.61, which was the highest level
since June 2008. The index has climbed 7.5 percent in 2012, on
expectations the global economy will withstand the impact of the
euro area’s debt crisis.  Moody’s Investors Service later cut the debt ratings of six
European countries including Italy,  Spain  and  Portugal , and
revised its outlook on the U.K.’s and  France ’s top Aaa rating to
“negative.”  A worsening of the European debt crisis would have “severe
consequences” for the U.S., and the Fed could resort to the
emergency lending and liquidity provisions that it did in 2008
to respond, should that risk materialize, Williams said
yesterday in response to a question from the audience.  Spain was downgraded to A3 from A1 yesterday, Italy to A3
from A2 and Portugal to Ba3 from Ba2, all with negative
outlooks, Moody’s said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Aki Ito in  San Francisco  at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net ;
Caroline Salas Gage in New York at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  