-- UBS Said to Plan Contingent Bond Sale to Boost Capital
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-02-14T14:29:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/ubs-is-latest-bank-to-turn-to-contingent-capital-in-satisfying-regulators.html
UBS AG (UBSN) ,  Switzerland ’s biggest
lender, will be the latest issuer of contingent capital bonds
meeting regulators’ demands that banks strengthen their
protection against losses.  The dollar-denominated notes will be permanently written
down if UBS’s  core Tier 1 capital  falls below 5 percent or if
the bank reaches a point where it would require a bailout to
avoid collapsing, according to two people with knowledge of the
deal, who declined to be identified before it’s completed. The
bonds, which mature in February 2022 and may yield about 7.5
percent, will switch to a floating  interest rate  if the bank
doesn’t redeem them in 2017, the people said.  “The deal looks like it’s aimed at Asian retail,” said
 John Raymond , an analyst at research firm CreditSights Inc. in
London. “That seems to be the place to go these days to find
wealthy people willing to invest in banks.”  Swiss authorities are insisting the nation’s biggest banks
hold about twice as much capital as demanded under the
international Basel III rules after the government was forced to
put up 6 billion francs ($6.5 billion) in 2008 to help UBS spin
off toxic assets.  Credit Suisse Group AG (CSGN) , the country’s second-
largest lender, and Rabobank Groep NV of the Netherlands have
also sold similar contingent securities designed to inflict
losses on investors when capital buffers deteriorate.  A UBS spokesman didn’t immediately respond to a request for
comment.  Record Loss  Zurich-based UBS posted an operating loss of 25.4 billion
francs the year it offloaded the toxic assets to a fund set up
by the central bank, a record for a Swiss company.  Swiss regulators are forcing the country’s banks to issue
loss-absorbing securities including equity and bonds equivalent
to 19 percent of assets weighted by risk and have given them
until 2019 to do so.  The banks must have a so-called common equity Tier 1 ratio
of at least 10 percent. They also have to hold two sets of loss-
absorbing bonds, one -- equivalent to 3 percent of assets --that
triggers when the Tier 1 ratio falls below 7 percent and
another, covering 6 percent of assets, that triggers at a level
of 5 percent.  UBS plans to issue only low-trigger bonds, opting to hold
common equity instead of the high-trigger notes, according to
Chief Financial Officer Tom Naratil.  A year ago, Credit Suisse issued $2 billion of so-called
high-trigger buffer capital notes, due 2041 and callable in
August 2016, that convert into equity if capital drops below 7
percent.  BNP Paribas SA, Commerzbank AG, Deutsche Bank AG and
Societe Generale SA are managing UBS’s bond with the Swiss bank.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Glover in  London  at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  