-- TUI Sells 17.4% Holding in Hapag-Lloyd, Affirms Forecast for Sales Gain
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-02-15T11:10:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/tui-sells-17-4-of-hapag-lloyd-to-albert-ballin-may-hold-ipo-for-the-rest.html
TUI AG (TUI1) , the owner of  Europe ’s
largest travel company, rose in  Frankfurt  trading after saying
it will sell a stake in Hapag-Lloyd and may dispose of its
remaining holding in the shipper in an initial public offering.  TUI will sell a 17.4 percent stake to investor group Albert
Ballin for 475 million euros ($626 million), leaving it with 22
percent of the shipping unit, the company said in a statement
late yesterday. The travel operator is “very well booked” for
cruises, Chief Financial Officer Horst Baier said today,
reiterating a prediction that sales will increase in 2012.  TUI shares rose as much as 6.6 percent. The company
postponed a planned IPO for Hapag-Lloyd last year because of
turmoil in global equity markets. It said in December that its
executive board resolved to sell most of its stake to Hamburg-
based Albert Ballin. By pulling out of the shipping industry,
TUI can focus on its  tourism business  and expansion in  Russia ,
 China  and  India , Baier said in November.  “To completely exit container shipping, TUI will obtain
the right to call for an IPO with priority placement of the
shares held by TUI any time as of end of June,” the Hanover,
Germany-based company said.  The stock was up 5.1 percent at 6.52 euros as of 12:08 p.m.
in Frankfurt. That boosted TUI’s gain this year to 36 percent.  Quarterly Loss  TUI said that a decline in vacation bookings to North
Africa caused its underlying operating loss in the three months
through December to widen to 147.3 million euros from 119.6
million euros a year earlier. Political unrest in North Africa
cut earnings by 30 million euros, the company said.  “Lower demand for North African destinations in the first
quarter had been anticipated and incorporated accordingly in the
annual budget,” TUI said. The company “expects moderate
turnover growth and a slight improvement in operating earnings”
for the year. Full-year results will  be  “positive,” it said.  Thomas Cook Group Plc (TCG) , Europe’s second-largest tour
operator, is selling assets and shuttering shops after reporting
a loss of 521 million pounds ($818 million) in the fiscal year
ended Sept. 30. It negotiated an emergency 200-million-pound
bank loan in November to help reorganize its business.  TUI’s travel bookings are “showing further improvement,
with volumes increasingly benefiting from the distress of  Thomas
Cook  in the U.K.,” said Johannes Braun, a Frankfurt-based
analyst at Commerzbank AG.  Emerging Markets  TUI plans to expand in Russia and Ukraine, while China,
India and  emerging markets  contain millions of prospective
customers, Chief Executive Officer Michael Frenzel said at
today’s annual shareholder meeting. Online expansion is also a
priority as “mobile offerings” will play a bigger role, the
CEO said.  Frenzel said TUI has identified savings potential of 126
million euros, which will be delivered over the next three
years. The CEO said he is aware of the company’s “obligation to
resume payment of a dividend as soon as possible.”  TUI’s travel prices are “relatively firm due to ongoing
tight capacity control and a high level of differentiated
products,” Braun said.  Ballin Purchase  Albert Ballin’ (TUI1) s investment group, which comprises Hamburg’s
state government, Klaus-Michael Kuehne, Signal Iduna, Hanse-
Merkur, M.M. Warburg & Co. and HSH Nordbank AG, is Hapag-Lloyd’s
majority shareholder and will own about 78 percent after the
deal is completed.  Hapag-Lloyd will redeem 100 million euros of financing and
Albert Ballin will acquire 125 million euros of hybrid capital
from TUI. The deal will bring 700 million euros of cash to TUI
by the end of June.  As part of the deal, Hapag-Lloyd will submit a buyback
offer to TUI in April 2013 to repurchase Hapag-Lloyd shares
valued at 37.5 million euros so that TUI’s stake will decline
further. Besides an IPO, TUI has the right to sell Hapag-Lloyd
shares to third-party investors, it said in yesterday’s
statement.  The reduction of TUI’s stake is subject to approval by the
shareholders of the Albert Ballin group. TUI holds a majority in
U.K.-based  TUI Travel Plc (TT/) , Europe’s largest tour operator.  Frenzel told shareholders in Hanover today that the
purchase price of its agreement with the Albert Ballin group is
“fair” and is confident TUI will completely exit the shipping
industry “as soon as the market environment opens up.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  