-- TurboTax Offers Live Tax Advice to Lure Clients From H&R Block
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s
-- 2012-02-14T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/turbotax-army-of-tax-guides-offers-free-aid-to-lure-clients-from-h-r-block.html
Louis Alleva is a soldier in  Intuit
Inc.’s (INTU)  campaign to persuade Americans to ditch their tax
preparers and use its software to file their returns.  The 51-year-old accountant works from the office on the
all-weather front porch of his suburban New York home, where
last month he was staring at three computer screens as he helped
Intuit’s  tax  professionals provide free advice to do-it-yourself
filers. The company, whose TurboTax product is the most widely
used digital and online tax-preparation program, sees the
service as a way to grab customers from  H&R Block Inc. (HRB)  and
 Jackson Hewitt Tax Service Inc. (JHTX) , whose storefront locations
cater to low-to-middle income taxpayers.  More than 60 percent of the  112 million  individuals who
submitted their returns electronically in 2011 used a tax
professional, according to the U.S. Internal Revenue Service.
Intuit is offering live help this year -- and advertising
heavily to promote it -- to lure such customers to TurboTax,
which generally is less expensive than paying a tax preparer,
said Dan Maurer, senior vice president of the consumer group for
the  Mountain View , California-based firm.  “We see the potential for as many as another 40 million
customers who could be using TurboTax,” Maurer said. “That’s
an enormous opportunity.”  The number is based on estimates of taxpayers currently
going to a tax store who may consider using TurboTax if they
knew they could speak to an adviser, Maurer said. About 24
million people use TurboTax software online or through mobile
devices, he said.  Shopping Around  The software generally costs at least $19.99, depending on
the complexity of the return, according to Ashley Kirkendall, an
Intuit spokeswoman. H&R Block, the biggest U.S. tax preparer,
usually charges at least $99 for in-store tax preparation, said
Robert Turtledove, senior vice president and chief marketing
officer for the Kansas City, Missouri-based firm. Both companies
also are offering a free service for taxpayers with the simplest
returns, such as those filing a form  1040EZ .  Consumers may have a difficult time figuring out how much
tax preparation will cost and shopping around ahead of time,
said Jean Ann Fox, director of financial services for the
 Consumer Federation of America  in  Washington . “Generally tax
preparers charge by the form so often you don’t know how much it
may cost,” she said.  In the first nine months of last year, H&R Block topped
advertising spending among tax preparers at $114 million, a 13
percent increase from the same period in 2010, according to the
latest available data from  Nielsen Holdings NV (NLSN) . Intuit was
second, dedicating about $93 million in the first three quarters
of 2011, which was a 7.6 percent increase.  Jackson Hewitt , the
second-largest U.S. tax preparer, trailed with the next biggest
expenditure of $18 million.  Farm Income  Intuit has hired more than 700 tax attorneys, certified
public accountants and IRS enrolled agents since April to
provide free tax advice by phone and through online chat. That
includes the team of 26 advisers from around the country that
Alleva manages. Alleva is a CPA and has worked for Intuit as an
adviser for three years.  “I was getting questions from folks out in  Idaho  who had a
farm and wanted to know about  farm income ,” said Alleva during
a January interview at his home in Westbury,  New York . “I’m in
New York here. Ask me about stocks, not farms. The interesting
thing is I had to answer their question so I had to learn about
that on the fly and that’s what a lot of our agents have to
do.”  Work From Home  TurboTax advisers generally work from their homes and also
may have their own tax-preparation business, said Alleva. They
receive an average of two calls an hour and inquiries range from
tax treatment of retirement income to cancellation of debt, he
said. Those taking calls answer questions rather than prepare
returns, said Kirkendall, the spokeswoman. All of them have tax
preparer identification numbers from the IRS, she said.  The IRS has required paid preparers since 2011 to register
with the government and receive an identification number, or
PTIN, that must be renewed annually. Those who aren’t licensed
attorneys, CPAs or enrolled agents generally also will have to
pass a competency test by the end of 2013 and complete
continuing education courses starting this year, the IRS said.  An  enrolled agent  is a person who has earned the right to
represent taxpayers before the IRS by either passing a three-
part comprehensive test or through experience as a former IRS
employee.  Phone Support  TaxAct, another tax preparation software maker, offers free
phone support to customers if they pay upfront for the product
instead of when filing, said Jessi Dolmage, a spokeswoman for
the company. The company’s online deluxe product for federal
returns costs $9.95, she said.  A federal ruling in October prevented H&R Block from
proceeding with a proposed acquisition of TaxAct products
because the judge said it would diminish competition in the
market. Instead  InfoSpace Inc. (INSP)  in Bellevue, Washington, acquired
the maker of the software in January.  While do-it-yourself may cost less, using a tax preparer
helps ensure that individuals don’t miss credits or deductions
that could result in a larger refund, said Turtledove of H&R
Block. The average  refund  for all taxpayers in 2011 was $2,913,
compared with $3,003 in 2010, IRS data show.  “There’s a huge difference between tax advice and tax
prep,” he said. “It’s not just phone-a-friend.”  Video Conferencing  H&R Block prepared about 15 million returns in its stores
last year, said  Gene King , a spokesman for the company. Tax-
preparation companies may pay interest and penalties if there’s
a mistake on a return and agree to assist customers if they are
audited. IRS rules state that individuals are ultimately
responsible for the accuracy of their returns even if they use a
preparer.  In addition to having preparers in its stores this season,
H&R Block designated about 1,000 workers to do returns for
customers through video conferencing online, Turtledove said.
While all the company’s tax professionals don’t have to be
attorneys, CPAs or enrolled agents, new hires are required to
complete more than 110 hours of training, Turtledove said. The
cost for having a return prepared through video conferencing is
similar to the pricing in stores, he said. H&R Block also offers
online do-it-yourself tax software.  “There’s always going to be a market for people who want
to do it themselves,” said Mark Steber, chief tax officer for
Parsippany, New Jersey-based Jackson Hewitt. “As our  tax code 
continues to be complex and more complex, there will be a need
to have someone help you.”  Refund Loans  While Intuit and H&R Block are promoting their free advice
or video conferencing, Jackson Hewitt, which has kiosks in about
2,800  Wal-Mart (WMT)  stores, is seeking to attract customers by
continuing to offer refund-anticipation loans. Bank regulators
and the IRS have cracked down on the loans, known as RALs, which
are secured by an individual’s expected tax refund with
annualized  interest rates  that may run as high as 149 percent,
according to the National Consumer Law Center in  Boston .  Jackson Hewitt, which emerged from bankruptcy in August,
and Liberty Tax Service, which has 2,000 franchisees nationwide,
have agreements with the last remaining bank company to finance
the refund loans this season.  Republic Bancorp Inc. (RBCAA)  in
Louisville,  Kentucky , reached a  settlement  with the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. in December to cease making RALs after
April.  That makes this tax season the final one in which loans
will be available on a large scale, said Chi Chi Wu, an attorney
at the National Consumer Law Center. London-based  HSBC Holdings
Plc (HBC)  and New York-based  JPMorgan Chase & Co.  previously exited
the business.  Free File  Taxpayers who file electronically and have direct deposit
may get their refunds in as few as 10 days, according to the
IRS. The agency deployed a program in January generally for
people earning $50,000 a year or less to help them prepare their
own returns using online software. At participating  sites  IRS-
certified volunteers are available to assist with tax questions
and computer problems, the IRS said.  The government has teamed up with various software
providers to help qualifying taxpayers access its  Free File 
program and e-file their federal returns without charge.  “Many people would like to try software,” said Maurer of
TurboTax. “It’s inherently less expensive than going to a tax
store.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Rick Levinson  at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 