-- TV Azteca Dropped by Mexico Cable Carriers Over Pricing Dispute
-- B y   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-02-14T06:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/tv-azteca-dropped-by-mexico-cable-carriers-over-pricing-dispute.html
TV Azteca SAB (AZTECACP) ’s networks are being
dropped by Mexican cable-TV carriers representing more than 4
million subscribers in a dispute over terms.  Megacable Holdings SAB, the nation’s largest cable company,
cut the channels yesterday, Chief Financial Officer Luis Zetter
said. Cablemas SA and TVI, both controlled by Grupo Televisa
SAB, said on their Twitter accounts they were dropping the same
stations.  The companies are pulling Azteca’s channels because it is
charging for content that used to be free, said Ana Maria
Solorzano, legal director for Cablecom, a Mexico City-based
carrier that also dropped the channels. Azteca wants to charge a
fee by packaging its over-the-air stations with cable networks,
such as news and soap opera channels, she said.  “If they charge us, we’ll have to raise prices for
subscribers, which we don’t want to do,” Solorzano said
yesterday in a phone interview.  Dan McCosh, a spokesman for Azteca, declined to comment.  Telecable, controlled by closely held Grupo Hevi, said on
its  website  that it was dropping Azteca for the same reasons.  “It pains us to be party to this situation, since we’ve
tried every way to avoid affecting our subscribers,” Telecable
said.  Azteca,  Mexico ’s second-largest broadcaster, airs the
soccer games of Mexican teams such as Cruz Azul and Monarcas
Morelia and attracts about 30 percent of the nation’s broadcast
audience, behind Televisa’s 70 percent.  Even on cable networks, where they have to compete against
international programming, Televisa and Azteca get an important
part of the audience, Mexico’s antitrust commission concluded in
a  ruling  last month.  Megacable has 1.9 million TV subscribers and covers
Mexico’s second-largest city, Guadalajara, where it is based.
Cablecom and Hevi combined have about 1.1 million subscribers,
according to Signals Telecom Consulting in Montevideo, Uruguay.  Coverage Areas  Cablemas and TVI have a combined 1.4 million subscribers.
Empresas Cablevision SAB, a separate cable unit of Televisa that
covers the Mexico City area, continued to carry Azteca’s
channels, as did Televisa’s satellite-TV unit, Sky.  That’s because those companies negotiate directly with
Azteca, while the others hold their contract through a separate
company, Productora y Comercializadora de Television SA,
Solorzano of closely held Cablecom said.  Cablecom, based in Mexico City, operates in 16 Mexican
states, including parts of the urban area surrounding the
capital. Hevi, based in Guadalajara, offers cable service in 10
Mexican states, with coverage in cities such as  Nuevo Laredo  and
Irapuato, according to its  website .  Complaints  Customers have been calling to complain about Azteca’s
absence, Solorzano said. She said she didn’t know how long the
standoff would last.  An official at Mexico City-based Televisa declined to
comment. Dish Mexico, Mexico’s second-biggest satellite carrier,
doesn’t carry Azteca channels.  Azteca, controlled by billionaire  Ricardo Salinas , fell 1.4
percent to 8.85 pesos yesterday in Mexico City, the biggest drop
since Jan. 19.  The shares  have gained 8.9 percent in the past 12
months. Megacable rose 0.6 percent to 27.31 pesos. Televisa
dropped 0.2 percent to 50.69 pesos.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ville Heiskanen at 
 vheiskanen@bloomberg.net  