-- Vinacomin in Talks to Sell Alumina to Chalco, Marubeni This Year
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2012-02-14T08:38:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/vinacomin-in-talks-to-sell-alumina-to-chalco-marubeni-this-year.html
Vietnam National Coal-Mineral
Industries Group , the state-owned mining company, is in talks
with partners  Aluminum Corp. of China Ltd.  and Marubeni Corp.
for sales from the country’s first alumina project.  Vinacomin, as the company is known, will begin production
at its alumina plant in Tan Rai of Lam Dong province in the
Central Highlands early in the second quarter, Deputy General
Director Nguyen Van Bien said in an interview in Hanoi
yesterday. The Tan Rai bauxite mine is one of two the company is
developing.  Vietnam is preparing to start production of alumina, which
can be smelted into aluminum for use in cars, packaging and
houses, when global producers of the lightweight metal are
idling capacity as energy costs soar and prices slump. The
Hanoi-based company’s development of bauxite mines has been
criticized by war hero Vo Nguyen Giap and activists who say that
they pose environmental and national security risks.  Marubeni (8002)  helped Vinacomin arrange a $300 million syndicated
loan from overseas banks and a lending agreement will be signed
early this year, Bien said. Aluminum Corp., or Chalco, was the
engineering and construction contractor for the project, he
said.  The two companies began talks with Vinacomin last year to
buy alumina produced from the project, though a purchase
agreement hasn’t been signed yet, he said. An agreement would be
linked to progress on building the plant, he added.  While Vinacomin is counting on long-term demand and may
produce aluminum after 2015, Alcoa Inc., Rio Tinto Group and
their global rivals are cutting production of the metal after
prices dropped last year, curbing profits. Alcoa, the largest
U.S. producer, said  China  may use 70 percent of its capacity in
2012.  Aluminum Prices  Aluminum for delivery in three months declined 30 percent
to $1,962 a metric ton in mid-December from a peak of $2,797 in
May on the London Metal Exchange. The metal climbed 13 percent
since then to $2,210 yesterday.  “Drops in the aluminum price are only temporary,” Bien
said. “Minerals are non-renewable resources so the mining and
refining of bauxite and alumina is significant in the long
run.”  Alumina output at the Tan Rai plant will reach 300,000 tons
this year and rise to 520,000 tons next year before attaining
full capacity of 650,000 tons in 2014. Vinacomin’s second
project in Nhan Co of Dak Nong province that’s under
construction will start with production of 300,000 tons in 2014
and reach 650,000 tons in 2016.  “These two are pilot projects, so the sooner we finish
them, the faster we can evaluate the aluminum industry in
 Vietnam ,” Bien said. “They will give us clearer direction and
will be advantageous to our decisions regarding future
projects.”  Annual Investment  Vinacomin needs about 30 trillion dong ($1.4 billion) to 40
trillion dong annually for project investment in the period
through 2015, Bien said. The company plans to sell at least 1.5
trillion dong of domestic bonds within the first half of this
year. It will focus on the coal, minerals and power businesses,
Bien said.  The company forecasts pretax profit will fall to 6.28
trillion dong this year from about 8 trillion dong last year due
to high  interest rates , fluctuating input costs and
unpredictable changes in the global economy, according to him.  Bauxite is refined into alumina, which is then smelted into
aluminum metal. About four tons of the mineral is used to
produce one ton of metal.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story: Diep Ngoc Pham
in Hanoi at   dpham5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
K. Oanh Ha at 
 oha3@bloomberg.net  