-- WaMu Fails to Win Votes Needed From Preferred Shareholders
-- B y   S t e v e n   C h u r c h
-- 2012-02-14T22:20:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/wamu-fails-to-win-votes-needed-from-preferred-shareholders-1-.html
Preferred shareholders of  Washington
Mutual Inc. (WM) , the former owner of the biggest  U.S. bank  to fail,
voted against the company’s $7 billion reorganization proposal,
jeopardizing a plan to pay common shareholders.  Preferred shareholders who hold about 38 percent, or $2.48
billion worth, of the equity voted against the plan, according
to court records filed yesterday in Wilmington,  Delaware .  Under the U.S. bankruptcy code, that would typically be
enough to block common shareholders from collecting money, even
though they settled a potential lawsuit against higher-ranking
creditors and voted in favor of the plan with the expectation of
getting paid.  “It looks like the settlement for the common shares is out
the window,” Kevin Starke, a senior analyst with CRT Capital
Group Inc., said in a telephone interview. Unless the judge
throws out the “no” votes, the common shares won’t be entitled
to recover anything, he said.  WaMu’s preferred convertible securities that may be
redeemed until 2049 rose nearly 24 percent today to $15.88,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  On Feb. 16, WaMu is scheduled to try for the third time to
win court approval for its reorganization plan, which would pay
$7 billion to creditors. That plan, which includes a settlement
endorsed by a committee of preferred and common shareholders,
would give shareholders new stock in the only part of the
company to survive.  Preferred Shares  Lower-ranking creditors such as common shareholders
typically will not be paid anything unless a super-majority of
higher ranking creditors, like preferred shareholders, agree.  WaMu attorney  Brian Rosen  said 67 percent of the total
value of preferred shares participating in the vote needed to
accept the reorganization plan. Because 62 percent voted in
favor, the judge overseeing the bankruptcy must find a reason to
ignore the “no” votes before approving the plan, Rosen said in
a telephone interview today.  The official committee that represents common and preferred
shareholders supports the reorganization proposal, committee
chairman Michael Willingham said in court papers yesterday.  In court papers, WaMu outlined a legal strategy designed to
ensure that common shareholders collect something. WaMu said
that at least part of the “no” vote should be discounted
because it was cast by creditors that have “a bad-faith
ulterior motive,” WaMu said.  Pursue Lawsuits  Creditors that voted against the plan are part of a group
called TPS Consortium, WaMu said in its filing. The consortium
includes affiliates of hedge funds Black Horse Capital Advisors
LLC, Greywolf Capital Management LP and Scoggin Capital
Management LP.  In separate votes, the funds voted against the plan and
also refused to waive their right to sue, meaning they cannot
receive stock set aside for preferred shareholders, WaMu said.  Under bankruptcy rules it may be difficult for WaMu to
persuade  U.S. Bankruptcy Court  Judge Mary Walrath to discount
the “no” votes, Starke said.  Starke doesn’t own WaMu securities. Stamford, Connecticut-
based CRT Capital is a broker-dealer that helps connect buyers
and sellers of securities including WaMu’s. CRT Capital holds
three WaMu bonds with a face value of $1,000 each.  Votes Discounted?  Rosen, WaMu’s attorney, said the funds’ votes should be
discounted because they weren’t eligible to recover under the
plan.  Robert Stark , a lawyer for the funds, didn’t immediately
return an e-mail requesting comment.  Seattle-based WaMu filed for bankruptcy on Sept. 26, 2008,
the day after its banking unit was taken over by regulators and
sold to  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  for $1.9 billion. Washington Mutual
Bank had more than 2,200 branches and $188 billion in deposits.  The bankruptcy case is In re  Washington Mutual Inc. (WAMUQ) ,
08-12229, U.S. Bankruptcy Court, District of Delaware
(Wilmington).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Church in Wilmington, Delaware, at 
 schurch3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  