-- Wells Fargo’s Directors Ordered to Face Foreclosure Claims
-- B y   J e f   F e e l e y
-- 2012-02-14T18:56:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/wells-fargo-directors-must-face-foreclosure-claims-judge-says.html
Directors of  Wells Fargo & Co. , the
largest U.S. mortgage lender, must face investors’ claims the
bank failed to properly disclose details of its foreclosure
practices to government investigators, a judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Susan Illston in  San Francisco  rejected
Wells Fargo’s request to dismiss shareholders’ allegations that
directors wrongfully failed to disclose their opposition to a
government probe of the bank’s mortgage lending and foreclosure
policies.  “The fact that the company was allegedly stymieing the
government regulators is certainly material to stockholders when
considering whether to authorize a more serious internal
investigation,” Illston said in Feb. 9 ruling.  That same day, Wells Fargo and four other banks reached a
$25 billion settlement with state and federal officials to end a
probe of abusive foreclosure practices stemming from the
collapse of the U.S. housing bubble.  The accord included $20 billion in various forms of
mortgage relief plus payments of $5 billion to state and federal
governments. Wells Fargo officials said the bank’s share of the
accord would total $5.3 billion. Other banks involved in the
settlement included  JP Morgan Chase & Co. ,  Bank of America Corp. 
and Ally Financial Inc.  “The plaintiff’s allegations are false, said Wells Fargo
spokesman Ancel Martinez in an e-mailed message. ‘‘Our directors
acted appropriately in all respects and we look forward to our
day in court.’’  Continuing Litigation  Even after agreeing to resolve the government’s
investigation into banks’ handling of foreclosures, which
included so-called robo-signing of mortgage documents, lenders
still face years of litigation and billions of dollars in
liability over their practices.  Government officials can pursue claims related to the
packaging of loans into securities, criminal-enforcement actions
and fair-lending violations, U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder
said last week. The banks also face lawsuits from state
attorneys general and investors.  Lawyers for a pension fund and trust that invested in Wells
Fargo filed a so-called derivative suit against the bank
alleging directors misled investors about their opposition to
the government investigation of the company’s foreclosures and
the need for further internal probes of Well Fargo’s practices.  Shareholders don’t seek individual awards in derivative
suits. Any recovery in the case from insurance covering
directors and officers will go into the bank’s coffers.  Opposition Undisclosed  Wells Fargo officials misled investors in proxy statements
about its efforts to cooperate with government investigators to
persuade shareholders to vote down a proposal calling for
further internal reviews of the bank’s foreclosure practices,
lawyers for the funds said in the suit.  The investors’ suit ‘‘sufficiently alleged that defendants
breached their duty of loyalty by failing to disclose that, in
the course of government investigations, Wells Fargo had
opposed” investigators’ requests for information and “refused
to provide details concerning the company’s policies,” Illston
concluded in her 13-page ruling.  “If, as alleged, defendants did not disclose material
information with the board’s control,” directors could be found
to have violated their “duty of loyalty to the company,” she
added.  Illston dismissed investors’ claims that Wells Fargo
officials engaged in “abuse of control” and “gross
mismanagement” by failing to disclose their attempts to oppose
the government investigation and that bonuses given to
executives, such as Chief Executive Officer  John Stumpf ,
amounted to “corporate waste.”  The case is Pirelli Armstrong Tire Corp. Retiree Medical
Trust v. John G. Stumpf, C 11-2369-SI, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of  California  (San Francisco).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jef Feeley in Wilmington,  Delaware , at 
 jfeeley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 