-- Westfield Forms U.S. Venture With Canada Pension; Shares Surge on Buyback
-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r
-- 2012-02-15T09:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/westfield-group-profit-jumps-as-canada-pension-buys-stake-in-12-u-s-malls.html
Westfield Group (WDC)  said it had formed a
$4.8 billion joint venture with the Canada Pension Plan
Investment Board and plans to buy back as much as 10 percent of
its stock, sending its shares up the most in 2 1/2 years.  Westfield, which today posted second-half profit that
jumped fivefold, said Canada Pension will become a 45 percent
joint-venture partner in a portfolio of 12 U.S. properties.  “This is a good outcome,” said  John White , who helps
oversee $3 billion as Melbourne-based managing director for
Asia-Public real estate securities at Heitman, an investment
firm. “Westfield retains control and gets excess capital that
they can reinvest into their pipeline and into a buyback.”  Westfield Group has turned its focus to mall developments
and new markets after the spinoff of  Westfield Retail Trust (WRT)  in
December 2010 freed the parent company to pursue higher-return
projects at home and overseas. The group expanded into  Brazil 
and  Italy  last year, and took on the development of the retail
part the  World Trade Center site  in  New York City .  Westfield Group’s  net income  climbed to A$881.8 million
($943 million) in the six months to Dec. 31, from A$153.1
million a year ago. The result was obtained by subtracting
first-half earnings from the full-year profit of A$1.53 billion
the Sydney-based company reported today.  Westfield Group  shares  climbed 5.3 percent to A$8.81 at the
close of trading in Sydney, the most since August 2009. They’ve
risen 13 percent so far this year, compared with a 4.9 percent
gain the benchmark S&P/ASX 200 index.  New Ventures  “We have expanded our operating platform globally and
reduced our capital invested by entering into strategic joint
ventures and disposals of non-core assets,”  Peter Lowy  and
Steven Lowy, the group’s co-chief executive officers, said in a
statement. “These initiatives provide the group with
approximately A$9 billion of capital for redeployment into our
higher return opportunities.”  Credit-default swaps on Westfield dropped 5 basis points to
190 as of 9:59 a.m. in Sydney, Deutsche Bank AG prices show.
That’s heading for the lowest daily closing level since Aug. 16,
according to CMA.  Westfield Retail Trust, which owns a 50 percent stake in
the company’s Australian and New Zealand malls, today reported a
profit of A$851.7 million in its first full year of operations.
It will pay out all its distributable earnings from 2012 onwards,
it said today.  Joint Venture  For Toronto-based Canada Pension, the partnership with
Westfield will be its biggest real estate investment so far, and
make the fund one of the biggest institutional owners of
regional shopping centers in the U.S., Graeme Eadie, senior
vice-president for real estate investments at the pension fund,
said in a separate statement. Westfield will continue to manage
the malls, it said.  Canada Pension, the country’s second-biggest retirement
fund, has C$14.4 billion of real estate investments including
shopping malls in  Australia , Brazil,  Germany , the U.K. and U.S.
among its C$152.8 billion of assets as of Dec. 31, according to
Feb. 10 quarterly financial statements.  Moody’s Review  Moody’s Investors Service said today it placed Westfield
Group’s senior unsecured rating and short-term rating on review
for possible downgrade because of the share buyback.  “Although Westfield has a number of strategic transactions
in train which provide it with capital to initiate a share
buyback, the application of such capital raising to shareholder-
friendly measures rather than direct debt reduction or recycling
into other income producing assets represents a weakening of
debt holders interests,” Maurice O’Connell, a Sydney-based
Moody’s senior analyst said in a report.  Westfield Group will also sell its interests in three
shopping centers in the U.K for 159 million pounds ($250
million), it said today. The sale is part of the group’s plan to
focus on its bigger malls including Westfield London and
Stratford City, the company said.  Full-year revenue from Westfield Group’s development and
management business surged to A$1.9 billion, from A$216 million
a year ago. Total revenue rose 10.5 percent to A$4 billion.  The group will pay a dividend of 48.4 Australian cents for
the full year, Westfield said. Funds from operations for 2012
are expected to be 68 cents a share, and it plans to pay out
49.5 cents a share in the year, it said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  