-- Wheat Shipments From Australia Seen at Record as Harvest Gains on Weather
-- B y   P h o e b e   S e d g m a n
-- 2012-02-14T09:50:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/wheat-shipments-from-australia-seen-at-record-as-harvest-gains-on-weather.html
Wheat exports from  Australia , set to
be the world’s second-biggest shipper, may advance to a record
this year as the harvest climbs to an all-time high after
favorable weather, according to the government forecaster.  Shipments (AUITWHET)  may total 22.3 million metric tons in the year to
Sept. 30, the Australian Bureau of Agricultural  Resource
Economics  and Sciences said today. That’s 3.2 percent more than
forecast on Dec. 6 and 20 percent higher than a year earlier.
Production may total 29.5 million tons, 4.3 percent more than
previously estimated and beating last year’s record crop of 27.9
million tons, the bureau said in a report.  Increased shipments from Australia will add to record
worldwide supply and may help to extend the grain’s 29 percent
slump in the past year, easing  global food costs . Wheat may
underperform corn and soybeans, Morgan Stanley said in a report
yesterday, citing “flush supplies” from Australia and  Europe .  “The market may be a bit surprised by the number,”  David
Johnson , general manager of risk and pricing at Emerald Group
Australia Pty, said by phone from Melbourne, referring to the
bureau’s increased forecast for overseas shipments.  Wheat for May delivery fell 0.7 percent to $6.4225 per
bushel on the Chicago Board of Trade at 5:48 p.m. in  Singapore .
The price fell 4.7 percent last week as forecasts for rising
world output and stockpiles countered concern that dry weather
and freezing temperatures in Eastern Europe may have hurt crops.  Export Volume  “Australia will continue to have to price wheat as a feed
grain into certain markets to achieve that export volume,”
Johnson said, citing  Indonesia , the Philippines and  Japan . Feed
wheat is of lower quality than the grain for human consumption.  Wheat-production estimates for the U.S. in 2012-2013 may be
revised higher should improvements in the weather be sustained,
according to the  Morgan Stanley (MS)  report. Corn may rise 9 percent
in six months, outpacing increases in other commodities, as
stockpiles in the U.S., the largest grower and exporter, tighten
further, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said on Feb. 9.  Global wheat stockpiles  before the 2012 Northern Hemisphere
harvest will climb to a record 213.1 million tons, 6.2 percent
more than last year, the  U.S. Department of Agriculture  said on
Feb. 9, predicting that the U.S. would be the largest exporter
in 2011-2012, followed by Australia and Russia. The Australian
export estimate is 1.3 million tons higher than the USDA figure.  Food Costs  Global  food costs , which rebounded 1.9 percent last month
as grain, dairy and oilseed costs increased, have dropped 9.9
percent from a record last February, according to data from the
United Nations’ Food & Agriculture Organization. Wheat’s tumble
over the past year has exceeded the 9.3 percent decline in corn
and 11 percent loss in soybean futures in  Chicago .  “Growing conditions for winter crops were generally
favorable across Australia,” the bureau said in the report.
“ Western Australia  experienced a recovery from very dry
conditions last season and the eastern states experienced a
second successive season of favorable conditions.”  Wheat output in Western Australia, set to be the nation’s
biggest producer, may total 11.7 million tons, more than double
last year’s crop and 16 percent higher than the December
estimate, according to the bureau’s report. The total winter-
crop harvest in Australia, including wheat, barley, canola and
other grains, may be a record 45.4 million tons, the bureau said.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Phoebe Sedgman in  Melbourne  at 
 psedgman2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  