-- Whitney Houston’s Family Said Offered Use of Prudential Center for Funeral
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r   a n d   C u r t i s   E i c h e l b e r g e r
-- 2012-02-14T00:24:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/whitney-houston-s-family-said-offered-use-of-prudential-center-for-funeral.html
Whitney Houston’s family has been
offered the Prudential Center in  Newark  for a funeral this week,
said a person with knowledge of the situation.  The 18,500-seat  New Jersey  arena is available Feb. 16 and
Feb. 17, said the person, who requested anonymity because the
plans aren’t public.  A wake could be held Feb. 16, with a funeral the following
day, the person said. Houston’s family is flying with the
singer’s body to New Jersey from Los Angeles, the person said.
Whigham Funeral Home in Newark is handling the arrangements, NBC
New York reported today.  Jill Fritzo, a spokeswoman for Houston’s family, said
specific plans weren’t available, as did a woman answering
phones at Whigham. The National Hockey League’s New Jersey
Devils are scheduled to play the Anaheim Ducks at 7 p.m. New
York time on Feb. 17, with doors opening at 5:30 p.m.  The pop singer, 48, was found in a bath tub “underwater
and apparently unconscious” at about 3:30 p.m. on Feb. 11 by a
member of her staff, Lieutenant Mark Rosen, a spokesman for the
Beverly Hills Police Department, said today at a press
conference. She was pronounced dead at 3:55 p.m., after
unsuccessful resuscitation efforts, he said.  Police are investigating the circumstances of Houston’s
death, Rosen said. Foul play isn’t suspected. A cause of death
won’t be known until the results of toxicology tests are
available in two or three weeks, he said.  “There is an active investigation, a death
investigation,” Rosen said. “This was not prompted by Ms.
Houston’s celebrity or notoriety. This is routine.”  Houston’s body is being flown to New Jersey courtesy of
filmmaker Tyler Perry, the Star-Ledger reported. The newspaper
reported funeral plans for Houston earlier today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net ;
Curtis Eichelberger in Washington at 
 ceichelberge@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  