-- Why Is Violent Crime Declining in U.S. Cities?: Jeffrey Goldberg
-- B y   J e f f r e y   G o l d b e r g
-- 2012-02-14T00:00:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/why-is-violent-crime-falling-in-the-u-s-commentary-by-jeffrey-goldberg.html
One night, in June 1989, a man named
Nathaniel Thomas was shot to death on a street bisecting a
public housing project in the Northeast quadrant of Washington,
D.C.  Like many homicides in Washington, this one took place
within distant view of the U.S. Capitol. I covered the night
police beat at the time for the  Washington Post (WPO) , and for cub
reporters the shadow of the Capitol dome was an irresistible
cliche, which I inevitably folded into my two-paragraph write-up
of what one homicide detective labeled “misdemeanor homicides” -
- unimportant murders of young black men involved with the drug
trade -- and which my editor just as inevitably excised.  The killing took place about 1 a.m. At 2 a.m., Thomas still
lay where he fell. Homicide detectives flipped over the body in
search of bullet holes. A crowd had gathered behind the yellow
police tape. Children made up much of the crowd.  This was before I became a father. Had I been a father at
the time, I would have told these children to go home. Instead I
wrote down their commentary about the body stretched out before
them. “Watch out, man, he’s gonna get up and bite you!” one kid,
maybe 14 or 15, yelled at the detectives. His friends broke up
with laughter. “I can’t see. Let me look, let me look,” said an
11-year-old, stuck in the second row, behind taller teenagers.  Velocity of Violence  I saw this sort of scene over and over again. The
callousness of children was the inevitable consequence of the
velocity of violence: Every night saw multiple shootings across
a dozen neighborhoods. Children become hardened to scenes of
mayhem in war zones. And  Washington , then under the chaotic
leadership of Mayor Marion Barry, was a war zone.  As the city’s population dropped -- it had peaked at about
800,000 in the 1950s, and was about 600,000 by the late 1980s --
the homicide rate, fueled by battles between rival gangs of
crack sellers, rose in spectacular fashion. More than 400 people
were slain each year as the 1980s gave way to the 1990s, and a
new epithet had taken hold: Washington was the nation’s “murder
capital.”  Washington’s problem was severe (and highly symbolic) but
not anomalous. In the late 1980s and early 1990s, cities across
the country were plagued by rampant violence, and social
scientists were predicting an unstoppable rise in homicide. The
warning was stark, even apocalyptic: The “superpredators,” feral
children born with  crack cocaine  in their bodies, would be
reaching puberty in 10 more years, and then America’s cities
would succumb to uncontrollable violence.  Fast forward more than two decades, to the end of 2011, and
a news conference hosted by Washington’s current mayor, Vincent Gray, and police chief, Cathy Lanier. Lanier looked sternly into
the cameras and warned D.C. residents of a sharp rise in crime.
Not a crime against persons; a crime against iPhones.  “Whatever it is, if it’s a small mobile electronic device,
it is the hottest commodity on the market,” Lanier said.  Theft of handheld devices was on the rise, she said, and
she didn’t seem happy about it. The city’s  homicide rate , on the
other hand, was cause for some satisfaction. In 2011, 108 people
were murdered in Washington. In 1991, 479 people had been
killed.  One hundred and eight unnecessarily dead people is nothing
to celebrate, of course, but the drop -- and the promise of
further decreases -- is an extraordinary and largely unheralded
development, replicated in many cities  across the country . We
are in a period of American history in which everything seems to
be getting worse, but here is something that is getting
dramatically better.  Bad Old Days  Not long after her news conference, I visited Lanier at her
office at police headquarters to talk about the bad old days and
about how she plans to keep them at bay.  Lanier, who is entering her fifth year in the job, is an
unlikely police chief: a white woman in a largely black city, a
native of blue-collar  Maryland  who was a mother at the age of 15
and who somehow earned a master’s degree while working her way
through a series of dangerous jobs for a dispirited and
dysfunctional police force.  When she first joined the department in 1990, she was
assigned to a foot patrol -- not because the department had
embraced the philosophy that later became known as community
policing, but because it had so few working patrol cars.  “The whole government was in shambles,” she said. “The
first car I did get had 157,000 miles on it, and the
transmission dropped out of it when I was transporting a
prisoner.”  She has vivid memories of the hopeless stretch of Georgia
Avenue she patrolled as a rookie. “Almost every block had a
liquor store, a funeral home, a hair salon, a check-cashing
place, and there were a couple of strip joints. Crack-cocaine
vials were everywhere on the sidewalk, and those liquor stores
opened real early. The drunks were already passed out in front
of them.”  She remembered the moment she realized the city was
drowning.  “It was three o’clock in the afternoon, Benning Terrace,
there was a homicide, a guy had been taken out of his car, they
made him get on his knees, beg for his life, and then they
killed him. We’re standing around in the parking lot waiting for
Homicide, and there’s these little kids getting out of school,
first grade, kindergarten, little backpacks, heavy coats, and I
remember us trying to shield them. It was a pretty gruesome
scene. And this little boy comes up to me, couldn’t have been
more than 8 years old, he says, ‘Excuse me, could you tell me if
that’s my brother over there?’”  She went on: “My heart stopped. He’s breathing real fast.
He’s panicking. It was horrible. I said, ‘What’s your brother’s
name, honey?’ He told me, and we had just gotten a preliminary
ID on the guy. It was a different name, it was confirmed. So I
said, ‘No, it wasn’t your brother.’ That was the image that will
stick with me forever.”  Fixing Problems  I asked her why Washington had changed so dramatically. She
made a series of broad sociological observations, noting the
decline in crack’s popularity and the impact of gentrification
on some parts of the city. What she didn’t do was praise
herself. I interrupted her, noting that, in my experience, many
police chiefs would answer this question by listing their many
and profound achievements. “Not gonna happen,” she said,
smiling.  Yet Lanier’s success in suppressing violent crime has much
to do with the innovations in street policing and in detective
work she introduced during her tenure, innovations that suggest
it’s possible for government to intervene in social crises and
fix problems that previously seemed immutable.  In part two of this column, I’ll discuss some of these
innovations -- and ask the question, Why did social science get
violent crime trends so wrong?  ( Jeffrey Goldberg  is a Bloomberg View columnist and a
national correspondent for The Atlantic. The opinions expressed
are his own. This is the first in a  two-part  series.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jeffrey Goldberg at  goldberg.atlantic@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Timothy Lavin at   tlavin1@bloomberg.net . 