-- Yahoo-Alibaba Talks Falter as Third Point Steps Up Pressure
-- B y   B r i a n   W o m a c k
-- 2012-02-15T21:55:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/yahoo-alibaba-talks-on-asia-asset-swap-are-said-to-have-reached-an-impasse.html
Yahoo! Inc. (YHOO) ’s board faced renewed
shareholder pressure to make changes yesterday amid a breakdown
in negotiations to sell its Asian assets, a deal that could
generate more than $10 billion for the company.  Talks to divest a stake in  Alibaba Group Holding Ltd. (ALIBABZ)  and
Yahoo’s Japanese operations have reached an impasse, according
to a person briefed on the matter, who asked not to be
identified because the discussions are private. The discussions
had focused on a tax-efficient deal, though the parties may
still pursue other approaches, the person said.  The failure to reach an agreement may put further strain on
 Yahoo’s board , which announced plans this month to replace some
directors while it continues a review of the company’s strategic
options. Shareholder  Third Point  LLC plans to nominate its own
slate of directors to the board, saying the recent overhaul
didn’t go far enough to soothe concerns about Yahoo’s prospects.  “The recently announced changes do not put the issuer on
the right track towards maximizing  shareholder value ,” Third
Point, a New York-based hedge fund run by  Daniel Loeb , said in a
filing yesterday. “Installing the hand-picked choices of the
current board does nothing to allay investor fears that Yahoo is
poised to repeat the errors of its past.”  After years of sluggish sales, a stagnant stock price and
market-share losses to  Facebook Inc. (FB)  and  Google Inc. (GOOG) , Yahoo
investors see the Asian sale as a way to earn a payday. Yahoo
also spurned a $47.5 billion takeover bid from Microsoft Corp.
in 2008, irking shareholders. The value of the Asian assets is
about $11.5 billion, according to Sameet Sinha, an analyst at B.
Riley & Co. in San Francisco.  Another Option?  Following the breakdown in discussions, representatives of
Alibaba and  Softbank Corp. (9984) , co-owner of  Yahoo Japan Corp. (4689) , are
prepared to explore another arrangement that would let Yahoo
sell its Asian stakes, the person familiar with the matter said.
Sunnyvale, California-based Yahoo, the biggest U.S. Web portal,
is prepared to continue talks on deals that would create value
for  shareholders , a separate person said.  Yahoo’s stock fell 1.6 percent to $15.12 at the close in
 New York . The shares have lost 12 percent of their value in the
past year. Alibaba.com Ltd. shares remained suspended in  Hong
Kong , as they have been since Feb. 9. There is no publicly
traded debt on the company, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  Confidence Not High  “It is certainly possible that this is a temporary
impasse,”  Clayton Moran , an analyst with Benchmark Co. in
 Delray Beach ,  Florida , said in a research note yesterday.
However, “the complex nature of this deal and the past
performance of Yahoo’s board both limit our confidence.”  Third Point said that while newly appointed directors Fred Amoroso and Maynard Webb bring technological expertise to Yahoo,
the board needs to do more to address the company’s future. In
last week’s shakeup, Yahoo said Chairman Roy Bostock and three
other directors won’t stand for re-election. That followed the
arrival of Chief Executive Officer  Scott Thompson  in January.  The hedge fund’s nominees are  Harry Wilson , CEO of Maeva
Advisors LLC; Michael Wolf, head of Activate Inc.; Jeffrey Zucker, former CEO of  NBC Universal ; and Loeb himself. In Third
Point’s vision, the new board would exclude Patti Hart, head of
the nominating and corporate governance committee, as well as
the recently appointed directors and the members planning to
exit, according to the filing.  ‘Especially Disappointing’  Yahoo has engaged with many of its largest shareholders,
including Third Point, since the announcement of the board
changes last week, the company said in an e-mailed statement.  “We have received constructive suggestions from several of
our major shareholders and, therefore, it is especially
disappointing that Mr. Loeb has chosen a potentially disruptive
path, just as the company is moving forward under new leadership
to aggressively increase the value of  Yahoo (YHOO)  for the benefit of
all of its shareholders,” the company said. “The nominating
and corporate governance committee continues to review
candidates and will make its recommendations to the full board
in due course.”  Dana Lengkeek, a spokeswoman for Yahoo, didn’t return
messages seeking comment on the discussions. Technology blog
AllThingsDigital reported the breakdown of talks earlier.  Yahoo began a review of its options during the ouster of
CEO  Carol Bartz  in September. The company said this month that
the board weighed proposals for equity investments and failed to
receive an attractive offer. Yahoo said then that it continues
to discuss a possible sale of its holdings in  Asia  and that it’s
devoting “significant resources to these discussions.”  Yahoo has considered a deal with Alibaba and Softbank that
would cut its stake in Alibaba to about 15 percent from about 40
percent, a person familiar with the matter has said. Alibaba
Group wanted to complete the terms of a loan of about $3 billion
by the end of last week for a potential buyback of shares held
by Yahoo, a person familiar with the matter said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Womack in  San Francisco  at 
 bwomack1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net ;
Jennifer Sondag at 
 jsondag@bloomberg.net  