-- Yale University Bought China Exchange-Traded Fund Last Quarter
-- B y   K e l l y   B i t
-- 2012-02-14T17:51:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/yale-university-bought-china-exchange-traded-fund-last-quarter.html
Yale University , whose endowment
strategy has been a model for U.S. schools, bought new shares of
a China exchange-traded fund last quarter.  The stake, valued at $23.2 million as of Dec. 31, was
Yale’s biggest new purchase during the three months, according
to a filing today with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission. Its second-biggest new purchase was a $382,255
holding in Zipcar Inc., the U.S. car-sharing service based in
Cambridge, Massachusetts, that completed an initial public
offering last year.  Yale, the second-richest school after  Harvard University  of
Cambridge, said foreign stocks beat benchmarks and its private
equity and real-asset investments rebounded in the year ended
June 30. David Swensen, Yale’s chief investment officer,
pioneered an investing style that helped endowments beat market
indexes by relying on such hard-to-sell assets as real estate
and private equity.  The report doesn’t show the New Haven,  Connecticut ,
school’s investments in stocks traded outside of the U.S. or in
 hedge funds , private equity, commodities, real estate and cash.
It also excludes U.S. stocks overseen by external fund managers.  Tom Conroy , a spokesman for Yale, couldn’t immediately be
reached for comment.  TiVo Selloff  Yale sold its stake in  TiVo Inc. (TIVO) , the Alviso, California-
based digital-video recording provider, valued at $798,112.  Yale’s investments returned 22 percent in the past fiscal
year. The endowment’s value rose to $19.4 billion as of June 30,
from $16.7 billion a year earlier. The school trailed its Ivy
League rivals in the previous fiscal year after a second
straight year of losses on real estate, timber and oil and gas
holdings.  Managers who oversee more than $100 million in equities
must file a Form 13F within 45 days of each quarter’s end to
list their U.S.-traded stocks, options and convertible bonds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kelly Bit in New York at   kbit@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net . 