-- Yemen’s Houthi Rebels Vow to Boycott Presidential Elections
-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m
-- 2012-02-14T14:50:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/yemen-s-houthi-rebels-vow-to-boycott-presidential-elections.html
Yemen’s Houthi rebels said they’ll
boycott presidential elections set for Feb. 21, though they
won’t stop people from voting in their stronghold in northern
Saada province.  The rebels, who have fought a sporadic war against the
government since 2004, announced their intentions in an e-mailed
statement today. At the same time, they said they back
separatists in the south trying to prevent voting from taking
place in the regions where they represent the majority. Attempts
by the government to use force to ensure ballots are cast
“would represent an unjustified aggression,” the rebels said.  Under the Gulf-brokered agreement on  power transfer , the
interim leader and vice president Abdurabu Mansur Hadi will run
unopposed to replace the outgoing president, Ali Abdullah Saleh.
Saleh signed the deal in November and passed some power to his
vice-president. In return, he received immunity from
prosecution, as did members of his inner circle.  Hadi, who has been endorsed by all parties represented in
parliament, will run the country during a two-year period
leading to parliamentary elections and a new constitution.  A southern Yemeni died today while attempting to plant an
explosive device at a voting center in the port city of Aden,
Fawaz Sharabi, a resident, said by phone.  Members of the southern separatist movement have painted
slogans on walls in Aden against the vote that read “no to the
election, yes to secession and liberation,” Sharabi said.  Anti-Saleh protests began with rallies in January 2011 that
swelled into mass demonstrations as tribesmen and military
members joined the movement. Saleh’s crackdown left almost 900
people dead, according to the Yemen Students’ Union. Saleh has
put the death toll on the government side at 1,150.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mohammed Hatem in Sana’a at 
 mhatem1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 