-- Yen Weakens to a Three-Month Low as Bank of Japan Increases Stimulus Steps
-- B y   C a t a r i n a   S a r a i v a
-- 2012-02-14T20:42:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/yen-falls-as-bank-of-japan-unexpectedly-boosts-stimulus-reducing-demand.html
The yen fell to a three-month low
versus the dollar after the  Bank of Japan  said it would increase
the size of its asset-purchase fund, damping demand for the
Asian nation’s currency.  The euro dropped against its U.S. counterpart after
European finance ministers shelved a meeting in Brussels
tomorrow because of a lack of political assurances from Greek
leaders and planned instead to hold a conference call. The Bank
of  Japan  unexpectedly added 10 trillion yen ($128 billion) to an
asset-purchase program and set a 1 percent goal for inflation to
boost the economy. The dollar gained on refuge demand after U.S.
retail sales climbed more slowly than forecast.  “The Bank of Japan caught the markets by surprise,” said
 Mark McCormick , a currency strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman
& Co. in  New York . “I don’t think anyone was expecting them to
move forward with additional purchases. Right now, you don’t
really want to be fighting the central bank, but it’s a move
you’re going to want to fade.”  The yen dropped 1.2 percent to 78.46 per dollar at 3:26
p.m. in New York after reaching 78.54, the weakest level since
November. It lost 0.4 percent to 102.72 per euro. The shared
currency dropped 0.7 percent to $1.3090 after appreciating as
much as 0.2 percent.  Canada ’s dollar gained against most of its major
counterparts, rising 1 percent to 78.33 yen, as crude oil
touched a three-week high before paring gains.  Norway’s Krone  A surge in  Norway ’s krone may prompt the central bank to
talk down the currency’s strength as early as this week as
policy makers renew their efforts to support exports.  The krone rose 0.2 percent against the euro to 7.5260 and
touched 7.5219, its highest since Sept. 9. It has gained about
2.9 percent against the common currency so far this year. Versus
the dollar, the krone reached 5.7032 yesterday, its strongest
since Nov. 14.  Chile’s peso declined for a third day, dipping 1 percent to
484.65 per dollar, on falling copper prices and calls for the
central bank to weaken the currency. The central bank probably
will keep the benchmark  interest rate  unchanged today at 5
percent, according to the median estimate of 20 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. The bank will announce its decision after
6 p.m. local time.  Greece Negotiations  The euro fell versus the dollar as Luxembourg Prime
Minister  Jean-Claude Juncker , head of the euro-region finance
chiefs, said further technical work needs to be carried out by
 Greece  and the troika of the European Commission,  European
Central Bank  and  International Monetary Fund .  Finance ministers will hold a teleconference to prod Greece
to do more to clinch an aid package worth 130 billion euros
($170 billion) along with about 100 billion euros of debt relief
from private bondholders.  Greece’s gross domestic product dropped 7 percent from a
year earlier in the fourth quarter after contracting a revised 5
percent on an annual basis in the third quarter, the Hellenic
Statistical Authority said in an e-mailed statement today.  Japan’s currency fell against all of its most-traded
counterparts after the central bank increased its asset-purchase
fund to 30 trillion yen, expanding economic stimulus measures
for the first time since October. The BOJ also said it will
target 1 percent inflation “for the time being.”  The yen reached its lowest level against the dollar since
Nov. 1, when Japan was in the midst of conducting 1.02 trillion
yen worth of unannounced intervention. The  Finance Ministry 
released data last week showing Japan sold yen in the  currency
market  during the first four days of November, after selling a
record 8.07 trillion yen on Oct. 31, when the yen climbed to a
post-World War II high of 75.35 against the dollar.  Counter Deflation  Japanese lawmakers had urged extra efforts to counter
deflation after the  Federal Reserve  adopted a 2 percent
inflation target and the European Central Bank expanded its
balance sheet. The Fed said at its meeting Jan. 25 that it would
keep its interest rate at a record low of zero to 0.25 percent
through at least 2014.  The yen reached a three-month high of 76.03 per dollar Feb.
1, within one yen of its postwar record.  The yen may weaken to 80 versus the  U.S. dollar  for the
first time in more than six months after breaking above the
pair’s 200-day moving average, according to technical analysis
by JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The dollar rose against all of the 16 major currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The  Dollar Index (DXY) , which
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the greenback
against the currencies of six major U.S. trading partners, rose
0.6 percent to 79.609.  ‘Flight to Safety’  Retail sales  increased 0.4 percent, following little change
in December that was initially reported as a 0.1 percent
increase, Commerce Department figures showed today. Last month’s
advance was half the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News, reflecting an unexpected drop at auto dealers.  “The retail sales data support our view that the economy
is not doing as well as most think it is,” said  David Mann ,
regional head of research for the Americas at Standard Chartered
Plc in New York. “There could be some elements of that creeping
back in, a bit of risk-off and flight to safety.”  Prices of goods imported into the U.S. rose 0.3 percent in
January, led by higher costs for automobiles and petroleum, a
report from Labor Department also showed today. It was the
second increase in the past six months, indicating little
pressure on prices from overseas.  Italy, Spain  The euro rose earlier as Italy sold 6 billion euros ($7.9
billion) of debt, meeting its target as its three-year borrowing
costs fell to 3.41 percent, the lowest since March.  Spain  sold
12-month bills at an average rate of 1.899 percent, the least
since October 2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Belgium, Greece and the Netherlands also sold debt today.  Moody’s downgraded Italy, Spain and Portugal, and said it
may strip  France , the U.K. and  Austria  of their top Aaa ratings.  The euro has declined 4.2 percent in the past six months,
the second-worst performance after the Swiss franc among the 10
developed-nation currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes. The dollar gained 4.8 percent, and the yen
rose 0.5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catarina Saraiva in New York at 
 asaraiva5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  