-- YPF Said to Lose Oil Partners as Government Cracks Down
-- B y   R o d r i g o   O r i h u e l a   a n d   L a u r a   P r i c e
-- 2012-02-14T18:02:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/ypf-said-to-lose-shale-oil-partners-as-argentina-s-government-cracks-down.html
YPF SA (YPF) ,  Argentina’s largest  energy
company, lost eight potential investors in South America’s
biggest shale deposits after government measures made oil
investments less attractive, according to a person familiar with
the talks.  Companies from the U.S., Canada and  Europe  abandoned talks
after the government withdrew financial incentives for producers
and forced companies to repatriate export revenue, the person
said, declining to be identified because talks are private. Six
of the producers cited unpredictable policies, this person said.  President  Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner  is pressuring oil
companies to boost investment after blaming them for a doubling
of crude imports in 2011. Fernandez on Feb. 3 withdrew an
incentive program because of an increase in local  oil prices 
since the payments were introduced in 2008. In October she
ordered oil and mining companies to repatriate export revenue in
a bid to stem capital flight. The government also voted against
a dividend payment by YPF in November.  “You can’t get a return out of Argentina that is as
attractive as in other places in the world,” Jason Kenney, an
analyst at  Banco Santander SA (SAN) , said in a telephone interview
from Edinburgh today. “The sooner they can begin to operate
without price caps, without regulatory oversight, and they can
be encouraging of investment, probably the better.”  Vaca Muerta  YPF  announced  last week that the 30,000 square kilometer
Vaca Muerta formation in southern Argentina holds at least 23
billion barrels of oil equivalent, according to an external
audit that surveyed about 8,000 square kilometers of the area.
YPF has about 13 billion barrels in that area, the company said.
Developing the entire 23 billion barrels will cost about $25
billion per year for a decade, the company said.  YPF’s American Depositary Receipts dropped as much as 7.3
percent to $31.22 in  New York  and were trading at $31.92 as of
12:57 p.m. local time.  A YPF official, who cannot be named under corporate policy,
declined to comment. Horacio Mizrahi, a spokesman for the
Argentine Planning Ministry, did not immediately respond to a
phone call and an e-mail.  “The attraction of international capital to  Argentina  as a
source of financing the enormous economic resources that this
project will require in coming years is a mandatory condition
for a project of such magnitude,” YPF said last week.  The boom in shale oil and gas production in recent years
has placed the U.S. to the closest it has been in almost two
decades to achieving energy self-sufficiency. Global energy
producers from Total SA to BHP Billiton Ltd. are investing in
shale formations impervious to traditional drilling methods.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rodrigo Orihuela in  Rio de Janeiro  at 
 rorihuela@bloomberg.net ;
Laura Price in  Buenos Aires  at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  