-- ThyssenKrupp Posts First-Quarter Loss After Americas Delays
-- B y   T h o m a s   B i e s h e u v e l
-- 2012-02-14T16:54:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/thyssenkrupp-posts-first-quarter-loss-after-brazil-u-s-delays.html
ThyssenKrupp AG (TKA) ,  Germany ’s largest
steelmaker, posted a first-quarter loss after project delays and
cost overruns in  Brazil  and the U.S., and said it was unable to
give a “reliable” outlook given the sovereign debt crisis.  The loss before tax and interest from continuing operations
was 33 million euros ($43 million) after a profit of 261 million
euros a year earlier, the company said in a statement today.  “Our performance in 2011-2012 will be shaped to a very
large extent by the impact of the sovereign debt crisis on our
core markets in  Europe ” and the  North American Free Trade
Agreement , Essen-based ThyssenKrupp said. “For this reason we
are unable to provide a reliable full-year forecast.”  Steelmakers are struggling to escape the industry’s worst
slump in 60 years as weakening growth in  China  and Europe saps
demand for steel and pushes prices lower.  ArcelorMittal (MT) , the
biggest producer, had its lowest quarterly profit in two years
last week, while  Japan ’s  Nippon Steel Corp. (5401)  reported a loss last
month and forecast declining use of the metal.  ThyssenKrupp, which is divesting assets making up about a
quarter of annual revenue including its stainless-steel
business, is also grappling with the cost of building plants in
Brazil and the U.S. ThyssenKrupp’s Americas unit reported a 288
million euro loss before tax and interest. The steelmaker
forecast lower losses at the unit in the second quarter on
higher volumes.  ‘Encouraging Signs’  The company will only remain committed to the division if
it adds value to the company and provides a return on capital,
Chief Executive Officer Heinrich Hiesinger said on a conference
call with analysts today. Hiesinger had been asked whether the
company would consider splitting its European and Americas steel
businesses.  “While Thyssen has seen some encouraging signs of late,
the second-quarter guidance is still tainted by issues in the
U.S., low contract prices in Europe and a disappointing flat
quarter-on-quarter guidance for the technology division,”  Tim Cahill , an analyst at J&E Davy Holdings, said in a note today.  ThyssenKrupp fell 3.8 percent to 21.07 euros by the close
of Frankfurt trading, the lowest in three weeks.  Prices for hot-rolled steel coil, a benchmark product used
in vehicles and buildings, have fallen for three straight
quarters and slumped to the lowest in 13 months in December,
according to Steel Business Briefing’s global price index.  “Subdued economic activity in our core markets
significantly impacted the performance of the group in the first
quarter,” ThyssenKrupp said. The steelmaker and Siemens AG
yesterday denied a magazine report they are seeking cooperation
that may lead to an exchange of assets or an outright merger.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Biesheuvel in London at 
 tbiesheuvel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  