-- Zynga Tops Sales Estimates on ‘Hidden Chronicles’ Lure
-- B y   D o u g l a s   M a c M i l l a n
-- 2012-06-27T19:39:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-02-14/zynga-sales-profit-exceed-estimates-as-hidden-chronicles-lures-gamers.html
(Corrects percent and year of sales projection in seventh
paragraph of story published Feb. 14)  Zynga Inc. (ZNGA) , the biggest developer of
games for social-networking sites, topped analysts’ fourth-
quarter revenue estimates as new titles such as “Hidden
Chronicles” and “CastleVille” added millions of players.  Sales rose 59 percent to $311.2 million in the period, San
Francisco-based Zynga said today in a statement. Analysts had
predicted $301.1 million on average, according to a Bloomberg
survey. Excluding some costs, profit was 5 cents a share, higher
than the 3-cent estimate.  Zynga, which raised $1 billion in a December initial public
offering, is the dominant developer of games for  Facebook Inc. (FB) ’s
site. Its sales got a boost from newer games, which may be
enticing users to spend more money, said Atul Bagga, an analyst
at Lazard Capital Markets in  San Francisco .  “The monetization for games like ‘Hidden Chronicles’ is
meaningfully higher than their older games,” Bagga said in an
interview before the earnings report. He recommends buying
Zynga’s stock.  Zynga rose in late trading after the report. The stock, up
44 percent since it began trading Dec. 16, climbed 7 percent to
$14.35 at the close in  New York .  The shares got a boost this month when Facebook filed for
its own IPO. Facebook, the world’s biggest social network, said
that it relies on Zynga for 12 percent of its revenue. Facebook
takes a 30 percent cut from purchases of virtual goods within
Zynga games.  Market Growth  Social games will generate $5.33 billion this year, an
increase of 39 percent since last year, according to Lazard. By
2015, the market could grow to $8.98 billion.  “Hidden Chronicles,” released last month, has become
Zynga’s third most popular game, with 30.2 million monthly
users, according to research firm AppData. It ranks behind two
more established games, “CityVille” and “Texas HoldEm
Poker.”  Electronic Arts Inc. (EA)  has been Zynga’s chief rival in social
games, with its “Sims Social” game attracting 20.9 million
monthly users. Rovio Entertainment Oy emerged as a competitor
this week, when it released a version of its popular “Angry
Birds” game for Facebook.  Zynga operates six out of the seven top games on Facebook,
according to AppData.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Douglas MacMillan in San Francisco at 
 dmacmillan3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  