-- 
‘Hop’ Returns as No. 1 Film With $21.3 Million in Receipts

-- B y   R o b   G o l u m   a n d   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s
-- 
2011-04-11T20:57:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/-hop-returns-as-top-weekend-film-with-21-7-million-arthur-is-second.html
The comedy “Hop,” about a young
bunny’s mission to save Easter, was the top film in U.S. and
Canadian theaters for the second-straight weekend, taking in
$21.3 million in ticket sales.  The PG-rated film combining animation and live action is
the first film from  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) ’s  Universal Pictures  to lead
the box office this year and has taken in $67.8 million in two
weeks of release,  Hollywood.com Box-Office  said today in an e-
mailed statement.  The picture held on to the top spot even with four new
films vying for moviegoer attention, including a remake of the
1981 comedy “Arthur” featuring  Russell Brand , one of the
voices in “Hop.” U.S. theater attendance has slumped 22
percent this year as the studios’ film slates have failed to
match the appeal of last year’s fare.  “This week was a ‘blah’ week, and we’ve had many of them
of late with several new releases underperforming,” said
 Brandon Gray , president of Box Office Mojo, an audience-
reporting service. “All-in-all, it was a dull week.”  The weekend was the seventh straight “down” one in terms
of receipts.  “Hanna,” an action thriller from Universal’s Focus
Features, opened in second place with revenue of $12.4 million.
The movie features Saoirse Ronan as a teenager who is trained to
be a killer by her father, a former CIA agent, and sent on a
mission. Eric Bana and Cate Blanchett co-star.  “Arthur,” a remake of the Dudley Moore picture about a
bumbling, rich bachelor, collected $12.2 million for  Time Warner
Inc. (TWX) ’s Warner Bros. to land in third place. A drunken playboy
played by Brand faces the loss of his inheritance when he falls
for a woman the family doesn’t like.  Helen Mirren , Jennifer Garner, Greta Gerwig and Nick Nolte are also featured.  ‘Soul Surfer’  “It was Brand’s first star vehicle where he has top
billing, but he hasn’t yet developed a rapport with American
audiences,” Gray said.  “Soul Surfer,”  Sony Corp. (6758) ’s picture about a Hawaiian
teenager, generated $10.6 million to take fourth place in its
debut. The movie is based on the real-life story of Bethany
Hamilton, who lost her arm in a shark attack in 2003 and
returned to competitive surfing three months later.  The horror film “Insidious,” distributed in the U.S. by
FilmDistrict, fell to fifth place from third with sales of $9.4
million. In the film, a family battles to free their young son
from evil spirits that torment him. The movie stars Patrick Wilson and Rose Byrne.  ‘Your Highness’  “Your Highness,” a comedy with Danny McBride,  James Franco  and  Natalie Portman , took in $9.4 million to land in
sixth place for Universal in its debut. McBride and Franco play
sibling princes on a mission to rescue the proverbial damsel in
distress played by Zooey Deschanel and save the kingdom. They’re
joined on the mission by a female warrior played by Portman.  “‘Your Highness’ is by far the biggest bust of the four
new releases” and is “another medieval movie flop,” said
Gray. “There was a lot put behind their marketing campaign, but
goofy period comedies are hard to pull off.”  Revenue for the top 12 films this weekend fell 14 percent
to $102.8 million from a year earlier, Hollywood.com said.
Domestic box-office sales this year have declined 21 percent to
$2.49 billion.  The amounts below are based on actual ticket sales for
April 8 to April 10.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rob Golum in  Los Angeles  at 
 rgolum@bloomberg.net .
Cordell Eddings in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  