-- 
Mubadala Plans to Boost Spending to $16.3 Billion This Year

-- B y   C a m i l l a   H a l l   a n d   Z a h r a a   A l k h a l i s i
-- 
2011-04-10T12:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/abu-dhabi-s-mubadala-plans-to-increase-spending-to-16-3-billion-this-year.html
Mubadala Development Co., an  Abu
Dhabi  government-owned investor with stakes in  Carlyle Group  and
General Electric Co., plans to boost spending to about 60
billion dirhams ($16.3 billion) this year, according to a bond
prospectus obtained by Bloomberg News.  The company will deploy a "substantial" portion of capital
and investment expenditure over 2011 to 2015 on Advanced
Technology Investment Co., Mubadala  GE Capital , Masdar, real-
estate, oil and gas, and public-private partnership projects,
according to the document. The group spent an average 16.4
billion dirhams over the last three years, it said.  Abu Dhabi, home to more than 7 percent of the world’s
proven crude reserves, is seeking to diversify from oil by
investing in industries such as real estate and aerospace.
Mubadala hired banks to arrange meetings with investors starting
April 6 in  London , according to a banker involved in the deal.
Meetings took place in Abu Dhabi and Dubai today.  Capital contributions of as much as 37.8 billion dirhams
have been approved by the government for 2011, Mubadala said in
the bond prospectus. A company spokesman declined to comment
when contacted by Bloomberg News.  Carlyle, GE  Mubadala held a 9.35 percent stake in Carlyle Group at the
end of last year, according the prospectus. Mubadala in December
invested $500 million in Carlyle in exchange for convertible
subordinated notes and equity in the world’s second-biggest
private equity firm. Mubadala also agreed to invest as much as
$600 million in funds managed by Carlyle, according to the bond
prospectus.  The company posted a comprehensive loss of 315 million
dirhams ($85.8 million) for 2010, because of declines in "mark-
to-market" investments. Mubadala said March 10 that it’s in
talks with state-owned Dubai Aluminium Co. to expand their
partnership. Gulf News reported that day, citing Sheikh Hamdan Bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Dubai’s deputy ruler, that Mubadala has
offered to buy a stake in Dubai Aluminium to create a new
holding company.  Mubadala held a 0.72 percent stake in  General Electric Co. (GE) 
at the end of last year, according to the prospectus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Camilla Hall in Dubai at 
 chall24@bloomberg.net ;
Zahraa Alkhalisi in Dubai at 
 zalkhalisi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  