-- 
German Stocks Fall; BMW, Hochtief Shares Drop as Deutsche Boerse Advances

-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 
2011-04-11T16:03:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/air-berlin-hannover-re-metro-siemens-german-equity-preview.html
German stocks retreated, led by
declining automakers, after another earthquake struck  Japan ,
shaking buildings in Tokyo.  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW) , the world’s
largest makers of luxury cars, dropped more than 2 percent as
Credit Suisse Group AG downgraded the industry.  Hochtief AG (HOT) 
plunged 9.5 percent as the builder said profit may fall about 50
percent this year.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  rose 0.9 percent after the
NYSE Euronext board unanimously rejected a rival approach from
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. and IntercontinentalExchange Inc.  The benchmark  DAX Index (DAX)  slipped 0.2 percent to 7,204.86 at
the 5:30 p.m. close in  Frankfurt , retreated from a one-month
high. The gauge has climbed 11 percent from this year’s low on
March 16 as investors speculated that the global economic
recovery will withstand Japan’s March 11 quake, the biggest on
record, and popular revolts in the Middle East and north  Africa .
The broader  HDAX Index (HDAX)  dropped 0.3 percent today.  “The DAX is trading lower after Credit Suisse turned more
cautious on automakers and downgraded Daimler, which also
impacted the performance of BMW and Volkswagen,” said Anita Paluch, a sales trader at ETX Capital in  London . “The lurking
nervousness has come however to the fore as fresh news emerged
about another earthquake hitting Japan, causing markets to react
negatively.”  Japan Quake  The DAX earlier slid as much as 0.8 percent after a 6.6-
magnitude earthquake hit Japan about 60 kilometers (37 miles)
from Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s stricken nuclear power plant,
prompting a tsunami warning and shaking buildings in the
country’s capital.  The quake struck at 5:16 p.m. local time 38 kilometers west
of Iwaki and 163 kilometers from  Tokyo  at a depth of 10
kilometers, according to the  U.S. Geological Survey . USGS
revised the magnitude down from 7.1 earlier.  Daimler slumped 2.7 percent to 50.65 euros as Credit Suisse
Group AG downgraded the stock to “neutral” from
“outperform.” BMW slid 2.5 percent to 57.10 euros, while
Volkswagen AG,  Europe ’s largest carmaker, declined 1.4 percent
to 110.45 euros.  Credit Suisse also downgraded auto-industry shares to
“benchmark,” saying it’s cautious on stocks that are more
reliant on economic growth. The China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said sales may grow at a slower pace than
previously forecast this year.  Hochtief tumbled 9.5 percent to 62.26 euros, the biggest
drop in two years, after its Australian unit predicted a loss
and announced a A$757 million ($800 million) stock sale.
 Germany ’s largest listed builder said it will take up its full
allotment in Leighton Holdings Ltd.’s share sale.  Deutsche Boerse  Rises  Deutsche Boerse gained 0.9 percent to 54.93 euros, the
highest price in a month. NYSE Euronext yesterday reaffirmed its
$9.67 billion agreement with Deutsche Boerse for the Frankfurt-
based exchange to buy the operator of the New York Stock
Exchange. NYSE said Deutsche Boerse’s offer will create more
value and has a greater likelihood of winning regulatory
approval.  Deutsche Boerse doesn’t plan to raise its offer for NYSE
Euronext, according to three people familiar with the matter.
The Frankfurt-based exchange operator is confident it can close
the transaction in the fourth quarter, said the people, who
declined to be identified because talks are confidential.  Roth & Rau AG (R8R) , a maker of solar-cell production equipment,
surged 13 percent to 22.30 euros, the biggest gain since 2008,
after Meyer Burger Technology AG agreed to buy the German
company for 357 million euros ($516 million).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  