-- 
Arab Gulf States to Discuss Brokering Yemen Solution

-- B y   M o h a m m e d   H a t e m   a n d   V i v i a n   S a l a m a
-- 
2011-04-11T14:23:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/arab-gulf-states-to-discuss-brokering-solution-to-yemen-unrest.html
(Corrects death toll in fourth paragraph of story published
April 10.)  Foreign ministers of the six-member
Gulf Cooperation Council will meet today in the Saudi capital,
 Riyadh , as part of efforts to broker a solution to the
escalating civil unrest in Yemen.  The government of President Ali Abdullah Saleh and the
opposition won’t take part in the talks today following an
invitation last week by members of the GCC, which includes
Bahrain,  Kuwait , Qatar, Oman,  Saudi Arabia  and the  United Arab
Emirates . Saleh said April 8 that he would not accept any
foreign intervention in Yemen’s internal affairs.  Tens of thousands took to the streets today in the capital,
Sana’a, and in Taiz, where clashes left at least 15 protesters
dead and hundreds wounded. Demonstrators chanted “Hey Ali, you
thug, what did you do last night?” Protests have gained
momentum since March 18, when police and snipers killed 46
people in Sana’a.  At least 37 Yemenis, including 24 children, have been
killed in the civil unrest since Feb. 18, the United Nations’
children’s fund said in an e-mailed statement today, citing
Seyaj, its local partner.  “This is extremely alarming”, said Geert Cappelaere,
representative of UNICEF  Yemen . “I am gravely concerned about
this escalation of violence, especially with regards to the
number of child casualties, which keeps increasing from week to
week.”  Yemen recalled its ambassador to Qatar yesterday following
remarks by the Gulf country’s Prime Minister Sheikh Hamad Bin Jasim Bin Jaber Al Thani that the GCC’s mediation effort aimed
at reaching a deal that would involve Saleh’s departure. Yemen
also revoked the license of Qatar-based Al Jazeera television
today because of a “sabotage scheme aimed at inciting strife,”
state-run Saba news agency reported today.  Saleh, 68, an ally in the fight against al-Qaeda, became
leader of North Yemen in 1978 and has ruled the Republic of
Yemen since the north and south merged in 1990.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Vivian Salama at 
 vsalama@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 