-- 
ASX Deal Doomed by Giving Up Control to Singapore Exchange, Investors Say

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a   a n d   G e m m a   D a l e y
-- 
2011-04-11T04:05:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/asx-deal-doomed-by-giving-up-control-to-singapore-exchange-investors-say.html
ASX Ltd. (ASX) , the owner of Australia’s
main bourse whose complete takeover by  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX) 
was rejected by the government, may have succeeded with a
gradual approach, investors said.  Australian Treasurer Wayne Swan blocked Singapore
Exchange’s bid for the operator of the Sydney-based bourse April
8. The deal was not in the nation’s interest and would have left
the Australian company as a junior partner, Swan said in
Canberra, the Australian capital. The companies terminated their
agreement, worth A$8.35 billion ($8.8 billion) when it was
unveiled on October 25, after the decision was announced.  ASX Chief Executive Officer Robert Elstone’s acceptance of
an offer that gave control to a foreign buyer made the takeover
too easy for Australian lawmakers to oppose, said Thomas Murphy,
managing partner at Family Office Research & Management Ltd. in
Sydney, a private wealth-management firm that holds ASX shares.
Swan called the rejection a “no brainer” in his press
conference.  “There was clearly naivete about the political
environment,” Murphy said. “If the deal was approached more
delicately and diplomatically, they could have done this over a
few years in a couple of stages. To come in with majority
control in one hit was a strategic mistake.” Family Office’s
holding is less than 0.1 percent of ASX, according to Murphy.  Immediate Opposition  Singapore Exchange , led by Chief Executive Officer  Magnus Bocker , 49, offered to buy ASX on Oct. 25 in a cash and share
deal the companies said was necessary to stave off competition
among exchanges to attract international capital. Elstone said
the deal was in both countries’ interests and that the companies
were confident of approval.  Singapore Exchange’s offer of A$22 and 3.473 of its own
shares for each ASX share valued the Australian bourse at 19.5
times earnings before interest and taxes, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s almost twice as much as the 10.4
times  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  said on Feb. 9 it would
pay for Canada’s  TMX Group Inc. (X) , the data show.  The sale ran into opposition from Australian lawmakers whom
Prime Minister Julia Gillard’s minority government needed to
pass legislation allowing the deal in parliament.  Bob Katter , an
independent in Parliament, said a revised offer on Feb. 15 that
would have given Australians more board seats was “like putting
a pig in a dress.”  Elstone’s Career  Opposition from lawmakers “was a substantial hurdle and
was underestimated in terms of the degree of difficulty in
achieving approval,” said Melbourne-based  Tim Schroeders , of
Pengana Capital Ltd., which manages about $1 billion. “It’s a
shame for Elstone, someone who’s been held in very high esteem
by investors, to have this as a feature of his tenure. It’s not
reflective of the good job he’s done overall.”  ASX has said that it is open to further tie-ups and that it
believes in the need for participation in regional as well as
global exchange consolidation.  A search for a replacement for ASX’s Elstone, whose term
expires July 11, is underway, the company said in a statement.
He’s been managing director and CEO of ASX since July 2006, when
the bourse completed its acquisition of SFE Corp.,  Australia ’s
biggest futures exchange, where Elstone held the same positions.  The appointment of Elstone, who also had to resign as a
non-executive director of National Australia Bank Ltd. to take
up the ASX position, was aimed at appeasing SFE shareholders who
had threatened to block the merger proposal. Elstone, 57, who
announced in September that he would not seek reappointment, was
hired on an initial three-year  contract  that could be extended
to this year at the discretion of the board.  Track Record  Elstone oversaw an increase in SFE’s share price from
A$3.53 when he took over as CEO on May 3, 2002 to a high of
A$17.95 on March 27, 2006, the day ASX’s takeover was officially
announced.  “Elstone has had a good track record of creating value for
shareholders both at SFE and ASX,” said  Simon Bonouvrie , who
helps manage about $1.8 billion at Platypus Asset Management Pty.
in Sydney and doesn’t own ASX shares.  At the close of Sydney trading on April 8, shares of ASX
were worth 4.4 percent less than they were on July 25, 2006, the
day Elstone was appointed in place of departing ASX CEO Tony D’Aloisio, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The S&P/ASX
200 Index fell 1 percent in the same period.  Singapore Exchange offered to buy ASX for 37 percent more
than ASX shares’ closing price on the last trading day before
the announcement. The stock rallied 19 percent to A$41.75 the
day the bid was unveiled. It slipped 4.4 percent to A$33.33 to
April 8 from April 5, when Swan said Australia’s Foreign
Investment Review Board had advised against it. Singapore
Exchange’s stock closed at S$8.38 on April 8, 12 percent below
its level before the bid. It has risen 4.6 percent since the
close on April 4.  Stay Competitive  Stock exchanges around the world are merging to stay
competitive. More than $20 billion in acquisitions have been
announced in the past five months as companies in  North America ,
 Europe  and  Asia  try to cut costs and boost revenue from trading
in stocks, options and futures. Frankfurt-based  Deutsche Boerse
AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NYX)  agreed to merge, while LSE said it would
buy TMX, owner of the Toronto Stock Exchange.  ASX spokesman Matthew Gibbs said the company had no comment
on Australia’s political environment. The failure of the bid
wasn’t “disastrous,” said Singapore Exchange co-President
Muthukrishnan Ramaswami in  Hong Kong  on April 8.  ‘Softer Approach’  “I don’t think ASX can be lambasted for trying to grow and
improve their business outside Australia,” said Pengana’s
Schroeders. “But in retrospect, a softer approach may have been
more applicable, where you’d have a minority interest to begin
with which doesn’t raise a red flag, more of a strategic tie-up
than a takeover.”  The deal, unanimously recommended by the boards when they
announced it, was an attempt to compete with rival exchanges in
 Tokyo  and Hong Kong, the Chinese city where a record $58 billion
was raised in equity offerings last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Bocker, a former president of  Nasdaq OMX
Group Inc. (NDAQ) , was to become CEO of the combined company.  “Given the amount of global consolidation that’s been
occurring, you’d think there’d have been a fair chance you’d be
able to get it over the line,” said Chris Hall, who helps
manage $4 billion at Argo Investment Ltd. in  Adelaide , Australia,
which owns ASX shares. “It would have been impossible to have
seen the kind of political opposition that we’ve seen coming.”  Swan did not rule out future approaches for ASX, saying he
is “open to the right deal for Australia if it comes along.”  Cost Savings  Before Elstone joined SFE in 2000, the graduate of
University of  London  and Stanford Graduate School of Business,
served as chief financial officer of Air New Zealand Ltd., from
1991 to 1994, and from 1995 as CFO of building-materials
producer Pioneer International Ltd., according to  Bloomberg
Businessweek .  At the time the takeover was announced, the companies said
they expected that the combination would result in annual cost
savings of $30 million and create opportunities for new products
and services. They expected to be able to implement the
agreement during the second quarter of 2011.  “This was a naive venture that was doomed from the start
because of nationalist sentiment,” said Phil Lewis, head of
economics at the faculty of business and government at the
University of Canberra. “What a waste of money.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gemma Daley at 
 gdaley@bloomberg.net 
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 