-- 
Singapore Stocks: Aztech, Biosensors, Genting Singapore, Wilmar

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   B u r g o s
-- 
2011-04-11T10:08:36Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/ausgroup-hi-p-jasper-investments-singapore-stocks-preview.html
Singapore ’s  Straits Times Index (FSSTI) 
lost 0.8 percent to 3,160.44 at the close. Six stocks dropped
for each that rose in the benchmark index of 30 companies.  Shares on the measure trade at an average 14.4 times
estimated earnings, compared with about 15.6 times at the end of
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The following shares were among the most active in the
market. Stock symbols are in parentheses after the company name.  Ausgroup Ltd. (AUSG)  , a provider of engineering services
to the mining and oil and gas industries, surged 22 percent to
50 Singapore cents. The company said it is exploring the
possibility of a secondary listing in  Australia , where the
company gets about 89 percent of its revenue.  Aztech Group Ltd. (AZ)  , a marine logistics company and
electronics manufacturer, declined 5.4 percent to 17.5 Singapore
cents. The company said it expects to post a first-quarter net
loss.  Biosensors International Group Ltd. (BIG)  , a maker of
drug-coated stents used to treat blocked arteries, increased 1.6
percent to S$1.25. The company its partner Terumo Corp. (4353
JT), a medical device maker, has won approval to distribute
stents using Biosensors’ technology in Japan. Separately, it
appointed Ronald Ede as chief financial officer.  Genting Singapore Plc (GENS)  , operator of one of two
casino resorts in the city-state, dropped 1.9 percent to S$2.12.
JPMorgan Chase & Co. maintained its “neutral” rating on the
stock, saying operations the company and its rival Las Vegas
Sands Corp. may be negatively affected if the Singapore
government imposes regulation to control alleged illegal
activities at the casinos.  Wilmar International Ltd. (WIL)  , the world’s palm-oil
trader that gets 55 percent of sales from  China , slid 1.3
percent to S$5.30. Chinese government officials asked Singapore-
based Wilmar to delay increasing the price of cooking oil, the
Wall Street Journal said, citing Au Kah Soon, a spokesman for
the company.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Burgos in Singapore at 
 jburgos4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net . 