-- 
Australian Golfers Scott, Day Look to Erase Greg Norman's Masters Collapse

-- B y   M i c h a e l   B u t e a u
-- 
2011-04-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/australian-golfers-scott-day-look-to-erase-greg-norman-s-masters-collapse.html
Adam Scott remembers skipping
school while growing up in  Australia  to cheer Greg Norman on at
the 1996  Masters  Tournament. It’s not a happy memory.  Fifteen years after Norman’s six-shot collapse in the final
round, Scott, 30, and Jason Day, 23, are poised to make a run at
capturing the only major golf championship an Australian has yet
to win.  “One day it’s going to happen,” Scott told reporters
after shooting 5-under par 67 in yesterday’s third round to
improve to 7-under overall, five shots behind leader  Rory McIlroy . “We’re not a huge country but we certainly get our
fair share of guys in this tournament every year. But no one’s
got over the line yet. It’s going to happen.”  For most of the 1990s, Norman was the country’s best hope
each year at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta,  Georgia . He
had had five top-10 finishes at the event when he began that
fateful final round. When it ended, he had shot 78 and lost to
 England ’s  Nick Faldo  by five shots. The defeat has plagued every
Australian player that has competed in the Masters since.  “Greg was bigger than just golf in Australia,” said
Scott, whose best finish in nine previous Masters appearances
was tied for ninth in 2002. “He was an icon down there. So the
dream of coming here and just playing is huge, and you know, to
win even bigger, probably indescribable.”  Best Round  Scott’s 67 equals his lowest round of the season. It’s his
best score in 35 rounds at Augusta and his second in the 60s,
topping a first-round 3-under 69 in 2010.  Day, making his Masters debut, shot an even-par 72
yesterday and is four shots behind 21-year-old McIlroy. After
shooting 64 in the second round, Day said he was disappointed he
wasn’t able to close the gap more.  “I didn’t play myself out of the tournament,” Day told
reporters after the round. “But I certainly could have played
better.”  The last Australian to contend for the Masters title was
Stuart Appleby in 2007. That year, Appleby held a one-stroke
lead going into the final round before shooting 3-over 75 on
Sunday to finish tied for seventh, four shots behind winner  Zach Johnson .  While no Australian has managed to break through and put on
the green jacket awarded to the tournament’s champion, Scott
said his countrymen aren’t cursed.  “No one here is thinking there’s a voodoo on us,” he
said. “For some reason it has not happened but it’s nice to see
a few of us up there this year. One good round and an Aussie can
earn this championship.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael Buteau in Augusta, Georgia at 
 mbuteau@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  