-- 
Bank of England Should Replace Inflation Targeting, Sumner Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/bank-of-england-should-replace-inflation-targeting-sumner-says.html
The Bank of England should consider
replacing its inflation-targeting regime with one focusing on
nominal gross-domestic-product growth, U.S. economist Scott
Sumner said.  Targeting nominal GDP growth, which is not adjusted for
inflation, would clarify the bank’s mandate and lessen its
reliance on unreliable price indicators, Sumner, an economics
professor at Bentley University in Waltham,  Massachusetts , said
in a report published today by the Adam Smith Institute. It
would also moderate the severity of financial bubbles and crises.  Pioneered by the  Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand  two decades
ago and now followed by more than 20 central banks globally,
inflation targets aim to control expectations of future price
pressures and give clarity about the path of interest rates.
Sumner said such regimes are flawed because they rely on
consumer-price indicators that are affected by factors not
requiring a monetary-policy response such as sales taxes and
exchange rates.  Inflation is “measured inaccurately and doesn’t
discriminate between demand versus supply shocks,” Sumner said
in a telephone interview. “Inflation often changes with a lag
and sometimes when you go into recession, it doesn’t change very
easily, but nominal GDP growth falls very, very quickly, so
it’ll give you a more timely signal stimulus is needed.”  GDP Forecast  The U.K. central bank should target annual nominal GDP
growth of about 4 percent to 5 percent, Sumner said. This would
also lead to a better coordination of monetary and fiscal policy,
he said. The  Office for Budget Responsibility , the British
government’s fiscal watchdog, last month cut its forecast for
2011 economic growth to 1.7 percent from 2.1 percent.  The U.K. government shouldn’t be in a position where it is
“reluctant to cut the  budget deficit  because of fear of the
effect on the recovery,” Sumner said. “With nominal GDP
targeting, you have the assurance that any slowdown in nominal
GDP due to budget tightening can be offset by monetary policy.”  U.K. inflation accelerated to 4.4 percent in February, more
than twice the central bank’s 2 percent target. That has pushed
three of the bank’s nine-member Monetary Policy Committee to
vote to raise the benchmark interest rate even before the full
impact of the government’s fiscal squeeze is felt.  Bank of England  policy makers are “in a little bit of a
bind where they would really like to carry forward with a little
bit more stimulus, but they’re getting pressured by the high
inflation numbers to tighten,” Sumner said. “There really is a
danger that if they tighten at the same time as the fiscal
policy tightens, you could have a double dip.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  