-- 
Bank of Ireland, Allied Irish May Show Halt in Cash Flight

-- B y   F i n b a r r   F l y n n   a n d   J o e   B r e n n a n
-- 
2011-04-11T13:31:53Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/bank-of-ireland-allied-irish-may-show-halt-in-deposits-flight.html
Bank of Ireland Plc and  Allied
Irish Banks Plc (ALBK) , the Republic’s two largest banks, will this
week show if regulators are succeeding in staunching the outflow
of deposits triggered by the country’s financial crisis.  Ireland’s six biggest banks have lost about a third of
their deposits since the end of 2008 as the country was forced
to seek a bailout, according to the  Irish central bank . Bank of
Ireland and Allied Irish will disclose their deposits when they
report combined annual losses that analysts estimate will total
a record 10 billion euros ($14.4 billion).  Regulators last month ordered the two banks to raise 18.5
billion euros of additional capital following a stress test
aimed at ending the country’s financial crisis. The Dublin-based
banks are relying on emergency funding from the  European Central
Bank  as customers pulled deposits and investors shunned their
debt. The two banks get about half their funding from deposits.  “The new proposed capital levels will be very comforting
for depositors,” said  Niall O’Connor , a London-based analyst at
Credit Suisse Group AG with an outperform rating on the two
banks. “From a foreign point of view, what is going out has
probably already left.”  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said April 6 net deposits
at the two lenders “improved significantly” after the stress
tests, without giving details.  Allied Irish fell 2 cents, or 6.8 percent, to 26.1 cents as
of 2:30 p.m. in Dublin trading today. Bank of Ireland fell 6.1
percent to 27.8 cents in Dublin.  Deposit Flight  Depositors pulled money last year as the country’s credit
rating was reduced on concern the government wouldn’t be able to
afford the cost of bailing out its banks. Ireland’s bill to
rescue the banks may reach as much as 100 billion euros,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Corporate deposits, excluding banks, at Ireland’s six
government-guaranteed lenders declined to 30 billion euros at
the end of February from 103 billion euros at the end of 2008,
 Emer Lang , an analyst at Davy, the Dublin-based securities firm,
said in a note to clients on April 7. Consumer deposits shrank
12 percent to 134 billion euros.  Standard & Poor’s  last week lowered Ireland’s credit rating
to BBB+ from A-, putting the country on the same level as
 Thailand . In December, Ireland’s credit rating was cut five
levels to Baa1 by Moody’s Investors Service as the government
struggled to contain losses in the country’s banking system.  Companies on Sidelines  “Very low ratings, some below investment grade, will keep
corporate depositors on the sidelines,”  Eamonn Hughes , an
analyst at  Goodbody Stockbrokers  in Dublin, said in an April 7
report to clients. “From here, growth in the economy will be
the main driver for deposit growth.”  Expansion may total about 1 percent this year, the
country’s central bank forecast on Jan. 31.  Domestic consumer lenders, including foreign-owned banks
operating in Ireland, borrowed 114.5 billion euros from the ECB
as of March 25, the Irish central bank said on April 8. They may
have also borrowed as much as 66.8 billion euros from the Irish
central bank, the data show.  Allied Irish, the country’s second-biggest lender, may
report a net loss of 8.6 billion euros tomorrow, according to
the median estimate of four analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. The
Dublin-based bank had  52.4 billion euros  of deposits at the end
of December, a 29 percent decline on the year-earlier period,
according to the central bank. The decline excludes deposits at
Allied Irish’s Polish division, sold last year.  Bank of Ireland Loss  Bank of Ireland, the country’s biggest lender, may record a
1.9 billion-euro net loss, according to the median estimate of
six analysts. Five of Ireland’s banks, including Bank of Ireland
and Allied Irish, sold 71.2 billion euros of commercial real
estate loans to the National Asset Management Agency, or bad
bank, for about 58 percent less than face value on March 2.   Irish Life & Permanent Plc, the country’s third-largest
lender, said last month that deposits fell 6 percent to 14.8
billion euros in 2010. The company, which relies on deposits for
a third of its funding, said corporate deposits dropped by a
third to 3.7 billion euros.  To contact the reporters responsible for this story:
Finbarr Flynn at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;
Joe Brennan in Dublin at 
 jbrennan29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  