-- 
Bernanke, Trichet Display Their Respective DNA: Caroline Baum

-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 
2011-04-10T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/bernanke-trichet-expose-their-respective-dna-commentary-by-caroline-baum.html
Two central banks look at the same
underlying fundamentals, reach two different conclusions and
take two different policy actions.  Last week the  European Central Bank  raised its benchmark
interest rate to 1.25 percent from 1 percent, where it’s been
for almost two years.  Also last week, the  Federal Reserve  moved ahead with its
planned purchase of $600 billion of U.S. Treasuries, the second
phase of its quantitative easing program. As for any increase in
the federal funds rate, which has been at 0 percent to 0.25
percent for 28 months, it won’t happen at the earliest until
March of next year, based on expectations imbedded in fed funds
futures’ prices.  For the ECB’s Jean-Claude Trichet, the  goal  of the rate
increase was to prevent “second-round effects in price and
wage-setting behavior” from boosting inflation further. Euro-
zone inflation rose 2.6 percent in March from a year earlier,
above the ECB’s target of no more than 2 percent over the medium
term. Trichet judged that the action was warranted to anchor
inflation expectations.  Stateside, Fed chief  Ben Bernanke  looked at U.S. inflation
of 2.1 percent and came to the opposite conclusion. He told an
Atlanta Fed conference last week that any inflation from
commodity prices would be “transitory” as long as inflation
expectations remain “stable and well-anchored.”  Who’s right?  Two Roads Diverged  The two decisions (one to act, the other to defer action)
reflect to some degree the bank’s different mandates. The ECB,
like the German Bundesbank before it, is entrusted with
maintaining  price stability , which it defines as an inflation
rate below, but close to, 2 percent over the medium term. Toward
that end, it employs a “two-pillar” strategy of economic and
monetary analysis.  Inflation is a monetary phenomenon, so money must be at the
root of that evil.  Unemployment may be high in  Europe  -- 20.5 percent in
 Spain , for example -- and three of its member states needed
financial bailouts, but that isn’t the ECB’s problem, or, more
correctly, its job. It makes life much easier when a central
bank has to answer to only one master.  The Fed has a dual mandate: stable prices and maximum
employment. It has a vague definition of price stability
bequeathed by that “Master of Garblements,” former Fed chief
 Alan Greenspan . (His definition: a level of inflation low enough
so that it doesn’t affect business or consumer decision-making.)
And it relies on a squishy concept like the output gap, an
estimate of economic slack, as a policy guide.  Lab Experiment  So here we have two lab rats staring at the same global
commodities boom -- the result largely of increased demand but
also of supply constraints (weather) and disruptions ( Japan ’s
earthquake, tsunami and nuclear disaster) -- and responding
differently. Why?  I have long suspected the answer lies in nature and
nurture.  Etched in the collective unconscious of European central
bankers is the memory of hyperinflation in 1920s Germany. If it
isn’t in their DNA, it’s drummed into them at an early age.  In the U.S. the seminal event, or key failure of central
bank policy, was the deflation of the Great Depression.
Economists  Milton Friedman  and Anna Schwartz put the primary
blame squarely on the Fed, which allowed the  money supply  to
contract by more than 25 percent between 1929 and 1933.  Promises, Promises  Who can forget  Bernanke’s promise  to the two of them at a
2002 conference to honor Friedman on his 90th birthday? “I
would like to say to Milton and Anna: Regarding the Great
Depression. You’re right, we did it. We’re very sorry. But
thanks to you, we won’t do it again.”  It’s not a promise Bernanke will risk breaking. While the
deflation threat has passed, Bernanke remembers the Fed’s second
major failure in 1936-1937: raising reserve requirements.  Banks had built up their deposits at the Fed as a
precaution against bank runs. The Fed viewed those deposits as
potentially inflationary, so it increased the percentage of
reserves that couldn’t be loaned out.  Bernanke is in no rush to pare the Fed’s balance sheet or
raise interest rates unless inflation expectations break free
from their moorings. Currently a market-based measure of five-
year inflation expectations five years from now is 3 percent,
above the Fed’s implicit target of 1.5 percent to 2 percent.  While Fed officials talk about avoiding inflation, their
behavior suggests deflation is the greater fear. In the mid-
1990s, for example, Greenspan sniffed out an increase in
productivity growth, which had slumped in the previous two
decades. Technological innovation, absent the central bank,
would result in falling prices. That’s what economists call
“good deflation,” driven by productivity growth, not the “bad
deflation” of the 1930s.  Walk the Talk  At the time, the Richmond Fed’s Al Broaddus and  Marvin Goodfriend  argued that the situation called for higher real
interest rates. Greenspan saw things differently, and the result
was the first of two asset bubbles.  He should have realized the benefits of good deflation.
What better way to anchor inflation expectations than a bout of
falling prices?  If it’s expectations that keep central bankers awake at
night, the ECB may have bought more credibility with its 25
basis points than the Fed did with all its talk.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg News columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Caroline Baum in  New York  at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  