-- 
Woodside Shares Set to Extend Gains on BHP Takeover Speculation

-- B y   N i c h o l a   S a m i n a t h e r   a n d   A m a n d a   J o r d a n
-- 
2011-04-10T16:11:09Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/bhp-planning-a-46-billion-woodside-takeover-sunday-times-says.html
Woodside Petroleum Ltd. (WPL)  is poised
to extend the past month’s 11 percent gain in Sydney trading on
speculation  BHP Billiton Ltd. (BHP)  will make a A$46 billion ($48.5
billion) bid for the Australian oil and gas producer.  BHP is in talks to buy  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) ’s 24 percent
stake in Woodside and make a full takeover offer, the  Sunday
Times  reported in London yesterday, saying that UBS AG is
advising Shell on its options. BHP would swap some of Woodside’s
assets, including the Sunrise natural-gas field, for Shell’s
holding, the newspaper said, citing people it didn’t identify.  Woodside shares have risen from this year’s March 15 low to
A$47.26 on April 8 on speculation of a bid from BHP and an
increase in gas demand following  Japan ’s nuclear crisis. BHP and
Tokyo-based Mitsui & Co. and  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  may be potential
buyers of Shell’s stake or of the entire company, Credit Suisse
Group AG said in an April 7 report.  “If BHP buy the whole of Woodside and bolt it together
with their own assets, I think they could look to make $3 or $4
billion worth of synergies out of this deal,”  John Meyer , an
analyst at Fairfax IS in London, said yesterday in a Bloomberg
Television interview. “There is a lot to be gained here for
shareholders of BHP, and in fact on both sides. I think it’s
very likely.”  Amanda Buckley, a spokeswoman for Melbourne-based BHP,
declined to comment, and London-based spokesman  Ruban Yogarajah 
didn’t return calls. Linda Hammer, a spokeswoman for Perth-based
Woodside, and spokeswomen for Shell in Perth and  London  declined
to comment. A spokesman for UBS couldn’t be reached.  Deal Premium  A A$46 billion bid would represent a 23 percent premium to
Woodside’s value, in line with the average premium paid for oil
and gas assets worldwide in deals announced in the past 12
months, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It looks like a good price, and I think it’s a deal that
the Australian government is going to support,” Meyer said.  Opposition from regulators and investors has led BHP to
abandon bids for Potash Corp. of Saskatchewan Inc. and Rio Tinto
Group, as well as a planned iron-ore venture with Rio, costing
the company at least $800 million since Chief Executive Officer
 Marius Kloppers  was appointed in May 2007.  While talks on Woodside have intensified in recent weeks,
BHP, the world’s biggest mining company, is concerned that
securing the support of Woodside’s management may be too costly,
the Sunday Times said.  Weighing Acquisitions  More than half of BHP’s assets are in Australia, where the
resources industry is undergoing its biggest boom in a century
as Chinese demand for coal and iron ore climbs. Kloppers said in
February he’s still considering acquisitions after completed
takeovers in the  mining industry  reached $80.7 billion in 2010,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Woodside could exchange stakes in liquefied natural gas
projects for Shell’s remaining shares in the company, Bank of
America Merrill Lynch wrote in a March 18 report. Under such a
deal, Woodside might swap a 30 percent interest in the Pluto LNG
project, an 18.5 percent stake in the Browse venture and 20.7
percent of the Sunrise development, according to the report.  “Asian LNG prices are the highest in the world, and
 Australia , being in relatively close proximity to  Asia , is well
positioned to sell to that market,” said Jason Teh, who helps
manage A$3 billion, including BHP shares, at Investors Mutual
Ltd. in Sydney. “It comes down to price, but broadly, Woodside
would be a good fit.”  Chevron, Shell  Chevron Corp., the second-largest U.S. energy company, said
yesterday that Shell had agreed to acquire a stake in its
proposed A$20 billion Wheatstone gas project in  Western
Australia . Shell will gain 6.4 percent of the LNG plants and 8
percent of the fields off northwest Australia that will supply
the Wheatstone development, Chevron said in a statement, without
disclosing financial terms.  Surging prices for  iron ore , copper and oil have left BHP
with $16 billion of cash, the Times said. The Standard & Poor’s
GSCI spot index of 24 commodities rose 20 percent last year and
has increased another 20 percent this year.  “BHP’s balance sheet now is in the best shape it’s ever
been in,” said  Chris Weston , an institutional trader at IG
Markets in  Melbourne . “Woodside is reasonably expensive and the
price BHP pays would be high. But the market would like to see
the tie-up. The market’s hoping to see A$3 billion-plus worth of
synergies to justify it, and given the size of the two
companies, it’s achievable.”  Woodside ‘Proactive’  Woodside, Australia’s second-biggest oil and gas producer,
is being “proactive” with Shell about the remaining shares
after The Hague-based Shell sold a 10 percent stake in November,
Woodside Chief Executive Officer Don Voelte said in February.
Shell sold the stock for about $3.3 billion and its remaining
holding was worth about A$9 billion at the close on April 8,
when the market value was A$37.5 billion, Bloomberg data show.  Woodside may sell stakes in its Australian gas ventures to
Japanese companies and use the proceeds to buy back Shell’s
portion, Credit Suisse said April 7. It’s doubtful companies
would be willing to acquire Shell’s holding as a “passive
investment,” and Asian buyers would rather have LNG asset
stakes than an interest in the company, the analysts said.  BHP’s dual listing in Sydney and London would mean the
company would probably need the approval of Australia’s Foreign
Investment Review Board for its offer to be successful, the
Sunday Times said.  “That could be a pretty big issue,” IG Markets’ Weston
said. “It’s going to be a very long and drawn-out process.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nichola Saminather in Sydney at 
 nsaminather1@bloomberg.net ;
Amanda Jordan in London at 
 ajordan11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reinie Booysen at 
 rbooysen@bloomberg.net . 