-- 
China’s March Car Sales ‘Below’ Expectations as Incentives End

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-10T09:00:52Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/car-sales-in-china-slow-more-than-manufacturers-forecast-as-incentives-end.html
China ’s passenger-car sales grew in
March at a pace that was below forecasts after incentives ended 
and fuel prices rose, the China Association of Automobile
Manufacturers said.  Dispatches of cars including multipurpose vehicles and
sport-utility vehicles to dealerships rose 6.52 percent from a
year earlier to 1.3 million units, the association said in a
statement today. That pace was about one-tenth of the 63 percent
sales increase reported in March of last year.  “The overall vehicle sales growth in March was below our
expectations,” Zhu Yiping, the association’s statistics head,
said at a briefing in Beijing today. March has historically been
a peak period for car sales in China following the week-long
Chinese New Year holiday that was celebrated this year from Feb.
2 through Feb. 8, according to the association.  General Motors Co. (GM) , China’s biggest overseas automaker,
posted slower sales growth in the nation for the second month in
March as the government reinstated a 10 percent sales tax and
phased out subsidies for vehicle trade-ins in rural areas. Last
year, overall auto sales surged 32 percent to a record 18.1
million, helping the nation stay the world’s largest vehicle
market for the second year.  “Car sales growth may continue to slow for a few more
months as customers brought forward purchases to the end of last
year,” said Harry Chen, an analyst with Guotai Junan Securities
Co. in Shenzhen. “The pace may pick up again in the second half
as potential demand is still there.”  Slowing Growth  Sales growth in China this year may fall short of the
association’s previous estimate for an increase of 10 percent to
15 percent, said Dong Yang, vice chairman of the association.  “I am concerned about whether our growth rate is too
low,” Dong said. “Some automakers’ profitability may be
undermined this year and some may even face difficulties in
their operations.”  Total vehicle sales gained 5.4 percent in March to 1.8
million units, the auto group said. Vehicle sales for the first
quarter increased 8.1 percent to 5 million units.  Passenger car sales during the first quarter rose 9.1
percent to 3.8 million units, according to the association.  China this month raised  interest rates  for the fourth time
in less than six months in a bid to rein in inflation. Economic
growth may slow this year to 9.6 percent and to 9.2 percent next
year from last year’s 10.3 percent pace, the Asia Development
Bank said in a report last week.  The government on April 7 increased retail gasoline and
diesel prices for the second time this year after oil advanced
to a 30-month high.  GM China Sales  GM sold 233,014 vehicles in China last month, the Detroit-
based company said April 2. Deliveries barely rose from March
2010’s 230,048 and followed a 6 percent increase in February.  Honda Motor Co.’s sales fell 5.3 percent last month from a
year earlier to 58,611 units, the automaker said April 6. BYD
Co., the automaker backed by  Warren Buffett , reported a 41
percent plunge in March sales.  Ford Motor Co. (F)  boosted sales in China 20 percent to 53,440
units in March. Deliveries of Ford-brand vehicles by Changan
Ford Mazda Automobile, the Dearborn, Michigan-based company’s
Chinese passenger car unit, totaled 42,157 vehicles in March,
the carmaker said April 7.  --Tian Ying, with assistance from Bonnie Cao and Stephanie Wong
in  Shanghai . Editors: Vipin V. Nair,  John Liu   To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Tian Ying in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7571 or
 ytian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Kae Inoue at 
 kinoue@bloomberg.net  