-- 
McDonald’s Wage for Nuclear Job Shows Japan Towns May Fade

-- B y   J o h n   B r i n s l e y   a n d   A k i   I t o
-- 
2011-04-11T02:38:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/mcdonald-s-wage-for-nuclear-job-shows-some-japan-towns-may-fade.html
A week before becoming ground zero
for the world’s biggest nuclear crisis since 1986, the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi plant offered $11 an hour for full-time maintenance
work in an area of Japan that was lagging even before last
month’s earthquake and tsunami struck.  The wage, the same as  McDonald’s Corp. (MCD)  pays for part-time
work in Tokyo, shows the scale of the northern Tohoku region’s
economic blight and indicates towns may never recover from the
disaster. Almost 28,000 people are dead or missing and 150,000
are homeless in Tohoku, where 25 percent of the population is 65
or older and job seekers outnumber jobs by two-to-one.  Once the rescue and clean-up is over, Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s government will have to decide whether to rebuild homes,
roads and businesses or relocate tens of thousands of people.
The challenge: structure investment plans to bring private  job
creation , beyond the short-term bump from public works.  “To put it very crudely, there won’t be a lot of people
left in these communities,” Takayoshi Igarashi, Kan’s special
adviser on addressing population decline and rural decay, said
in an interview. “Old people will pass away and the young will
surely leave for  Tokyo . The government now faces this awful
choice of whether to invest in rebuilding these areas or leaving
them behind.”  Successive governments and Tokyo Electric Power Co. have
poured money into the building of bridges, roads and soccer
stadiums in places like the Fukushima town of Ohkuma, which has
failed to revive the economies in the northeast, said Daniel Aldrich, author of ‘Site Fights: Divisive Facilities and Civil
Society in Japan and the West.’ The problem with these “empty
box projects” is that they temporarily create construction jobs
that evaporate when the work is done, he said.  ‘Exponentially Higher’  The 9-magnitude quake and waves as high as 15 meters (49
feet) damaged or destroyed more than 200,000 buildings and
leveled entire towns in  Japan ’s northeast.  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Toyota
Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Sapporo Holdings Ltd. (2501)  are among the companies
that have shut down factories from damage that the government
estimates is as high as 25 trillion yen ($295 billion).  Igarashi said Japan will need “at least” 20 trillion yen
to rebuild the area. If residents who have been evacuated from
near the nuclear power plant can’t return, the amount of
spending needed “will be exponentially larger,” he said.  The disaster struck an economy already mired in its second
decade of stagnation and deflation. Japan’s national debt is
twice the size of gross domestic product, the result of soaring
welfare costs and falling revenue. The benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY) 
Stock Average has fallen 6.4 percent since March 10, the day
before the catastrophe struck.  Contaminated Vegetables  Tohoku’s six prefectures, with a population of about 9
million, have an average per capita income of 2.6 million yen,
15 percent less than the national figure. In the northernmost
prefecture of Aomori, the population fell 4.4 percent between
2005 and 2010, the second-biggest drop in the country, as young
Japanese left to find work in the bigger cities.  Radiation from the Fukushima complex about 220 kilometers
(137 miles) north of Tokyo has contaminated vegetables and
seafood in Tohoku, which depends on agriculture, fishing and
manufacturing. Shipments of milk and spinach have been
restricted in the area that accounts for more than a quarter of
Japan’s production of rice. Radioactive iodine, cesium and
cobalt have been found in the sea nearby.  Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said April 1 the
evacuation of residents near the plant may be “long-term.”  Low-Skill Jobs  “The biggest problem is the nuclear one,” said Itsunori
Onodera, a lawmaker with the opposition  Liberal Democratic Party ,
whose hometown of Kesennuma was ravaged by the tsunami. “If the
area of nuclear contamination spreads, people won’t live there
and there’ll be no reconstruction.”  Most of the region’s jobs don’t require academic degrees or
advanced training, Aldrich said. Executives who work in the
region come from Tokyo and go home on weekends and some towns
that in the 1980s had several schools have consolidated to one.  Three of the prefectures -- Miyagi, Iwate and Fukushima --
account for 99 percent of the casualties from the disaster.
Kesennuma had a pre-quake population of 74,000. Now, 2,120
people are dead or missing and 8,897 are in evacuation centers,
according to the city’s  Web site .  Pledging Cooperation  The ruling  Democratic Party of Japan  and the opposition
have pledged to cooperate in funding the recovery and the
administration is considering setting up a reconstruction agency
to oversee the rebuilding effort. Kan said the first spending
package to cope with relief and reconstruction will be compiled
this month, without giving details. He promised that farmers
will be repaid for their losses, and vowed “full-scale
restoration” of the area.  Edano said April 7 that an initial spending package could
be as much as 4 trillion yen. The opposition  Liberal Democratic
Party  has called for a 5 trillion yen effort, about $5 billion
more than  South Korea ’s 1997 bailout package.  The disaster has also created an opportunity to rebuild
some parts of Tohoku, experts say. The first priority will be
housing for those who lost their homes, said Itsuki Nakabayashi,
an engineering professor at Tokyo Metropolitan University who
specializes in disaster recovery and mitigation. After that, the
government should consider tax cuts and other incentives to lure
businesses to the region, he said.  A new international airport at Sendai, and better road and
telecommunication links are measures experts say will help to
rejuvenate the region.  ‘More Attractive Tohoku’  “Here’s a tremendous opportunity to create a more
attractive Tohoku, one that moves away from the concrete
state,” said Robert Mason, an expert in environmental policy at
 Temple University  in Philadelphia who has lived in Japan and
studied its suburban sprawl. “What’s required is a measured
approach of ‘What should we rebuild, where should we rebuild?’”  Kan’s DPJ in 2009 defeated the LDP, which governed Japan
almost without interruption in the postwar era in part by
railing against the LDP’s support for public works projects that
benefited the  construction industry . Rebuilding Tohoku with a
view toward sustainability could be a way for Kan to make good
on his campaign pledge “From concrete to people.”  “Unless you build new and long-term industries there, the
kids are going to leave,” Aldrich said. “The long-term problem
is that many of the incentives provided have been these
infrastructure projects and they haven’t been thinking about how
to revive these economies.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Brinsley in Tokyo at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net ;
Aki Ito in Tokyo at 
 aito16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  