-- 
Charl Schwartzel Wins His First Masters Title by Two Shots Over Scott, Day

-- B y   E r i k   M a t u s z e w s k i
-- 
2011-04-11T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/charl-schwartzel-wins-first-masters-title-by-two-shots-from-scott-day.html
Charl Schwartzel won golf’s Masters
Tournament, closing with four birdies for a 6-under-par 66
during a final round in which seven players held at least a
share of the lead.  Schwartzel, 26, finished 14-under par at the season’s first
major championship, two shots better than Adam Scott and Jason Day of  Australia .  Tiger Woods  made a run at his fifth Masters
title yesterday at Augusta National Golf Club in Augusta,
Georgia, before finishing in a tie for fourth place.  Schwartzel is the third South African to win the Masters,
joining Trevor Immelman and Gary Player. Schwartzel’s victory
came 50 years to the day that Player, a three-time champion,
became the first Masters winner from outside the U.S.  “It’s a dream for me, the highlight in my golfing career
by a long way,” Schwartzel said at a news conference. “I
always thought if there was one that I would win, it would be
this one. This is the sort of golf course that suits my eye.”  Schwartzel receives $1.44 million for the win, the first of
his career in the U.S. He has six European Tour victories.  Woods, who won the most recent of his four Masters titles
in 2005, closed with a 5-under 67. He had four birdies and an
eagle over the first eight holes and tied for the lead before
finishing tied for fourth for the second straight year. Woods,
formerly the world’s No. 1-ranked golfer, hasn’t won a
tournament since November 2009, weeks before a car crash led to
his acknowledgment of extramarital affairs that resulted in
divorce.  Geoff Ogilvy  of Australia and  Luke Donald  of England also
were 10-under par, one shot better than 2009 Masters winner
 Angel Cabrera  of  Argentina .  Four-Shot Deficit  Schwartzel, who tied for 30th last year in his Masters
debut, started the final round four shots behind Rory McIlroy,
who had an 8-over par 80 in the final round to finish 10 shots
off the lead.  Schwartzel needed three holes to erase McIlroy’s lead, the
largest 54-hole advantage since Woods’s record 12-shot win in
1997. Schwartzel chipped in for birdie from off the green on the
first hole and holed out from 108 yards for an eagle on the par-
4 third hole to tie for the lead.  While McIlroy made a triple-bogey at the 10th hole to drop
out of the lead, the leader board remained clogged. As many as
10 golfers were within two shots of the lead over the final nine
holes.  “There’s so many roars that go on around Augusta,”
Schwartzel said. “It echoes through those trees. Every single
hole you walk down, someone has done something, and I’d be lying
if I said I wasn’t looking at the leader board.”  Birdie Run  Schwartzel, who grew up on a chicken farm in  South Africa ,
started his run of birdies at the 15th and 16th holes. He then
snapped a tie with Scott, who was vying to become the first
Australian winner of the Masters, by sinking an 8-foot birdie
putt on the par-4 17th hole. Schwartzel sealed his victory with
a 15-foot birdie on the final hole.  Schwartzel was the second Masters winner in 21 years who
didn’t play in the final pairing, following  Zach Johnson  in
2007.  McIlroy, who made three bogeys over the first three days of
the tournament, added a bogey and a double-bogey after his
triple-bogey at the 10th hole. McIlroy, a 21-year-old from
 Northern Ireland , was seeking to become the second-youngest
Masters winner behind Woods, who in 1997 claimed his first title
3 1/2 months after his 21st birthday. McIlroy turns 22 next
month.  Instead, McIlroy became the fourth player to blow a 54-hole
lead of four shots or more at Augusta National. The others were
Greg Norman (six shots in 1996), Ed Sneed (five in 1979) and Ken Venturi (four in 1956).  “I’m very disappointed right now, and I’m sure I will be
for the next couple days, but I’ll get over it,” McIlroy said.
“I’ll have plenty more chances. Hopefully it will build a
little bit of character in me.”  Hideki Matsuyama of  Japan  was the lowest-scoring amateur,
finishing 1-under par and tying 2010 Masters champion  Phil Mickelson  for 27th place.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Erik Matuszewski in Augusta,  Georgia , at 
 matuszewski@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at   msillup@bloomberg.net  