-- 
Chevron Agrees to Sell Stake in Wheatstone LNG Project to Shell

-- B y   J a m e s   P a t o n
-- 
2011-04-10T14:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/chevron-agrees-to-sell-stake-in-wheatstone-lng-project-to-shell.html
Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the second-largest
U.S. energy company, said  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA)  agreed to
acquire a stake in its proposed A$20 billion ($21 billion)
Wheatstone natural gas project in Western Australia.  Shell, Europe’s largest  oil company , will gain 6.4 percent
of the liquefied natural gas plants and 8 percent of the fields
off northwest Australia that will supply the Wheatstone
development, Chevron said in an e-mailed statement today.
Financial terms weren’t disclosed.  Chevron has called the Wheatstone venture and the A$43
billion Gorgon LNG project the “centerpieces” of its global
growth plans. The Hague-based Shell also owns 25 percent of
Chevron-led Gorgon on Barrow Island, the largest of more than a
dozen LNG projects in  Australia  and Papua New Guinea seeking to
tap Asian demand for cleaner-burning alternatives to coal.  The Wheatstone venture initially will produce 8.9 million
metric tons of the fuel a year from two processing units, or
trains, when it begins in 2016, the company said last month. The
project may have as many as six units and produce as much as 25
million tons of LNG annually, Chevron said last July.  Chevron plans to make a decision in the second half of this
year to proceed with the project, it said today. Wheatstone is
estimated by Deutsche Bank AG to cost A$20 billion.  Chevron now has 73.6 percent of the project, while  Apache
Corp. (APA)  has 13 percent and Kuwait Foreign Petroleum Exploration
Co. holds 7 percent. Apache and Kuwait’s state-owned oil company
in 2009 agreed to supply gas to Wheatstone in exchange for
stakes.  The  San Ramon , California-based energy company plans to
sell Wheatstone fuel to Tokyo Electric Power Co., Kyushu
Electric Power Co. and Korea Gas Corp.  Chevron said in September it aimed to supply LNG to China
National Petroleum Corp. and collaborate with the oil company on
the development of gas fields as part of a preliminary pact.  To contact the reporter on this story:
James Paton in Sydney   jpaton4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Amit Prakash at   aprakash1@bloomberg.net . 