-- 
China's Export Rebound May Let Wen Intensify Effort to Curb Surging Prices

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-11T03:52:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/china-s-export-growth-shows-economy-tolerating-rate-increases.html
China ’s faster-than-expected growth
in exports and imports last month may allow Premier  Wen Jiabao 
to strengthen his fight against inflation, which probably
exceeded his target for the ninth straight month in March.  Overseas shipments jumped 35.8 percent and imports climbed
27.3 percent, unexpectedly pulling the  trade balance  into
surplus after a $7.3 billion shortfall in February, the customs
bureau said yesterday.  “March export figures came in stronger than expected,
shrugging off the impact of Japan’s disaster and the surge in
 oil prices ,” said  Qu Hongbin , chief China economist at HSBC
Holdings Plc in Hong Kong. “This reconfirms that inflation
rather than growth remains as the key risk for China. Get ready
for more reserve ratio and rate hikes in the coming months.”  The government will use reserve requirement ratios,
 interest rates  and foreign-exchange rates to “eliminate the
monetary basis for inflation,” Premier Wen Jiabao said during a
visit to Zhejiang province on April 9, the official Xinhua news
agency reported. Wen reiterated that controlling price gains is
his top economic priority after food and housing costs surged,
threatening social stability.  Investors are growing confident that the economy can
tolerate monetary tightening, with China’s benchmark stock index
climbing 9 percent since the first of two interest-rate
increases this year. The index’s advance has beaten the 0.6
percent gain in the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index and a 1.4
percent drop in the MSCI Asia Pacific Index.  Accelerating Inflation  The Shanghai Composite Index, which tracks the bigger of
China’s stock exchanges, rose for a fifth day. It climbed 0.8
percent to 3,053.24 at the 11:30 a.m. break.  Consumer-price gains climbed 5.2 percent in March,
exceeding the government’s 2011 target of 4 percent for the
third month, according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg
News survey. The statistics bureau is due to release the data on
April 15.  Inflation in China is “somewhat out of control and causing
some serious danger of wage-price inflation,” billionaire
investor  George Soros  said yesterday at a conference in  Bretton
Woods ,  New Hampshire . “It would be very advantageous to allow
the currency to appreciate as a way of controlling inflation,”
said Soros, chairman of Soros Fund Management LLC.  Higher commodity prices contributed to the nation recording
its first quarterly trade deficit since 2004, underscoring the
case for yuan gains to help contain prices. Inbound crude oil
shipments in the first quarter rose 12 percent by volume and 39
percent by value to $43.7 billion. The cost of iron ore imports
jumped 82.5 percent to $27.7 billion while the amount of metal
climbed 14.4 percent, customs data showed.  Quicker Gains  “ China’s economy  would ultimately benefit from greater
appreciation” in the yuan,  Stephen Green , head of research for
greater China at Standard Chartered Plc in  Shanghai , said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television. Green predicted a “quicker”
pace of appreciation in the currency in the second quarter after
a 0.9 percent gain versus the dollar in the January-to-March.  The People’s Bank of China has raised interest rates four
times and boosted banks’ reserve requirement ratios six times
since early October. Credit Suisse Group AG forecasts the
benchmark one-year deposit rate, which has risen 1 percentage
point to 3.25 percent, will climb another 1.5 percentage points
by the end of the year.  No Hard Landing  A report this week may show China’s gross domestic product
expanded 9.4 percent in the first quarter from a year earlier,
according to the median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey. The
economy grew 9.8 percent in the fourth quarter.  There’s “little risk of a hard landing,” Paul J. Heytens,
China country director of the  Asian Development Bank  said last
week, citing “robust” growth in industrial production, retail
sales and real-estate investment.  Expansion will ease to 9.6 percent this year from 10.3
percent in 2010 as the government’s fiscal stimulus winds down
and monetary policy is tightened, the Manila-based lender
forecast.  The growth in March exports beat the forecasts of 24 out of
25 economists in a Bloomberg News survey and was 53 percent
higher than the median estimate, while the gain in imports
topped the 20.6 percent forecast. The $140 million  trade surplus 
compared with the median forecast for a deficit of $3.35 billion.  Export Growth  “The better-than-expected exports and imports should
remove concerns there will be a rapid economic downturn,” Dong Xian’an, former chief economist at Industrial Securities and now
at Beijing-based Peking First Advisory, said in a note yesterday.  Export growth to China’s biggest trading partners -- the
European Union and the U.S. -- accelerated last month as their
economies recovered from the global financial crisis, customs
bureau data showed. Shipments to  Japan  surged 37.4 percent from
a year earlier to a record $13.1 billion.  U.S. policy makers have pressed China to allow quicker
gains in the yuan to help narrow trade imbalances, with Treasury
Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  continuing to describe the
currency as “substantially undervalued.”  The PBOC set the yuan’s daily reference rate against the
dollar at 6.5401 today, a record high for the seventh straight
trading day. The currency touched a 17-year high on April 8 and
was little changed at 6.5367 per dollar as of 10:02 a.m. in
Shanghai, according to the China Foreign Exchange System. The
yuan has gained more than 4 percent over the past 12 months,
less than half the rise of  Singapore ’s dollar.  Containing Inflation  “China is still facing strong pressure from imported
inflation,” said Liu Li-Gang, an economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group in  Hong Kong  who formerly worked for the
 World Bank . “While the authorities can use fiscal subsidies to
offset this, the exchange rate tool is more effective to contain
imported inflation.”  The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
said last week an economic recovery among the world’s most
advanced economies is gathering strength. The Paris-based body
forecast the Group of Seven economies excluding Japan probably
expanded an annualized 3.2 percent in the first quarter and 2.9
percent in the second.  --Zheng Lifei, Victoria Ruan. With assistance from  Jay Wang  in
Singapore, Sophie Leung and Susan Li in Hong Kong and Baizhen
Chua in Beijing. Editor: Nerys Avery, Ken McCallum  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560 or
 lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  