-- 
China Pork Binge Driving Iowa-Sized Soy Imports on Shortage

-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 
2011-04-11T15:02:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/china-meat-binge-fuels-iowa-sized-soybean-imports-to-feed-689-million-pigs.html
All the soybeans in  Iowa  won’t be
enough to meet the anticipated surge in China’s imports over the
next four years as the nation feeds a record pig herd and drives
bean prices to an all-time high.  China, which doubled meat consumption in the past two
decades, may boost international soybean purchases 33 percent to
66.9 million metric tons by 2014, a 16.6 million-ton increase
that is more than Iowa, the largest U.S. grower, produced last
year, government data show. U.S. farmers are cutting back on
planting, meaning prices will rise 21 percent to $16.80 a bushel
by Dec. 31, a Bloomberg survey of 20 analysts shows.  Almost half the world’s pork comes from  China , which has
689 million pigs and will be responsible for all of this year’s
increase in global supply, the U.S. Department of Agriculture
estimates. That’s adding to China’s dependence on raw-material
imports from  Brazil  to  Australia  to the U.S., making it
vulnerable to inflation that Premier  Wen Jiabao  has pledged to
combat without derailing economic growth.  “China is building a livestock and meat industry in five
years that took the  United States  50 years,” said Michael Swanson, the senior agricultural economist in  Minneapolis  for
San Francisco-based  Wells Fargo & Co . “U.S. farm trade with
China may double in the next five years.”  The 13-fold expansion in  China’s economy  in the last two
decades has meant an almost doubling in meat consumption by the
country’s 1.34 billion people,  World Bank  and government data
show. While the U.S. trade gap with China widened by about 13
percent to $23.3 billion in January, exports of U.S. farm goods
are the highest ever and the Asian nation is the top customer.  Soybean Imports  China may increase soybean imports to 68 million tons by
2014, a 17.7 million-ton increase from last year that would
exceed the purchases forecast by the USDA, according to Grant
Kimberley, director of market promotion for the Iowa Soybean
Association. Farmers in the state reaped 13.5 million tons in
2010. China consumes one in every four tons produced globally.  It takes about 2.8 pounds of feed to produce one pound of
pork, according to the American Soybean Association. Increased
meat production and demand for feed is coming at a time of near-
record global food prices that contributed to protests across
northern  Africa  and the Middle East, toppling leaders in Egypt
and  Tunisia . Rising prices pushed about 44 million people into
poverty since June, the World Bank said in February.  Chicago Trading  Soybeans for July delivery fell 21.25 cents, or 1.5
percent, to $13.825 at 9:45 a.m. on the Chicago Board of Trade.
Before today, prices were little changed this year, compared
with a 23 percent surge in corn and a 40 percent advance in
cotton. That’s spurring U.S. farmers, the world’s largest
growers and exporters, to sow the fewest acres with soybeans in
three years, the USDA estimates. When the harvest begins in
September, U.S. stockpiles will be enough to cover 15 days of
demand, the fewest since 1965.  China will import a record 57 million tons in the 12 months
to October, more than twice the amount five years ago and 60
percent of the global total, the USDA estimates. As domestic
agricultural output failed to keep pace with demand last year,
China’s imports jumped 34 percent to $17.52 billion. Pork
accounts for about three-quarters of Chinese meat demand, the
USDA estimates.  “China will be a growing market for the next decade,”
said Kimberley, who farms 4,000 acres (1,619 hectares) with his
father in Maxwell, Iowa, and spent 10 days in China last month
with processors, importers and government officials. “Chinese
people are becoming more affluent and want to eat more meat.”  Curb Inflation  Efforts to curb inflation may slow growth. The People’s
Bank of China raised  interest rates  for a fourth time in six
months on April 5, before a report forecast to show consumer
prices climbed 5.2 percent last month from a year earlier, the
fastest pace since 2008. Food inflation reached 11 percent in
February, government data show. Wen’s goal is a 4 percent rate.  The government plans to sell as much as 3 million metric
tons in exchange for an agreement with processors to keep
cooking-oil prices at government-set levels, said three people,
who declined to be identified because they aren’t authorized to
speak publicly. Some crushers may be forced to delay or cancel
shipments booked from the U.S., Liu Ni, general manager of
research at Cofco Ltd., said today at a conference in Beijing.  Spot prices climbed 19 percent in the past year in the city
of Dalian, home to the nation’s largest agriculture exchange,
according to data from Shanghai JC Intelligence Co., a trade
consultant. Wholesale pork prices in China surged 40 percent
since May.  Inflation is accelerating, with the Journal of Commerce-
ECRI Commodity Price Index reaching its highest in at least a
quarter century on April 8. Crude traded in  New York  rose 34
percent in 12 months to $112.97 a barrel, almost double its
average of about $58 over the last decade.  While growth in China will slow to 9.5 percent this year,
from 10.3 percent in 2010, that will still be more than three
times the pace of the U.S. and five times the speed of the euro
region, according to the median estimates in Bloomberg surveys
of as many as 89 economists.  Two Decades  The average person in China will consume a record 39.3
kilograms (86.6 pounds) of pork this year, compared with 19.7
kilograms in 1990, based on estimates from the USDA and the U.S.
Census Bureau. The population increased by 182 million people
over two decades, the equivalent of Mexico and  France . At the
same time, gross domestic product jumped to more than $5.7
trillion last year from $390 billion in 1990, the International
Monetary Fund estimates.  “Our lives have generally gotten better,” said Hu Bo, a
38-year-old grain farmer near Qufu city in the province of
Shandong. Hu can afford to buy pork three or four times a month.
A decade ago, the meat was eaten only on special occasions such
as births, deaths or marriages, he said.  To keep pace with rising consumption, China is expanding
its herds, flocks and fisheries, using more feed. The country
was a net importer of corn for the first time in 14 years in
2010 and will need to buy 13 percent more soybeans this year,
USDA data show. About 80 percent of processed soybeans are fed
to livestock as meal, with the rest converted to vegetable oil
used in food, chemical products and fuel.  Fish Farms  Soybean demand is increasing from fish farms in China,
which already accounts for 63 percent of global output of
aquaculture, according to Kimberley. Commercial fish production
uses as little as 1.2 pounds of feed to get one pound of meat,
compared with 2.8 pounds to produce a pound of chicken and 3.2
pounds for a pound of pork, he said.  “China will continue to import record amounts of soybeans
year after year for the foreseeable future,” said Douglas Carper, the principal of Omaha, Nebraska-based DEC Capital Inc.,
a commodity trading adviser and consultant to hedge funds. “We
will need record crops every year to meet rising demand, because
if we don’t, the supply will be razor tight.”  Soybean Acres  The surge in demand will not be met by an equal advance in
supply. U.S. farmers told the government last month they intend
to cut soybean acres by 1 percent to 76.609 million, the USDA
said March 31. In Iowa, acreage may drop 4.1 percent. Chinese
growers may plant 11 percent fewer acres to sow more cotton and
corn, the Ministry of Agriculture said last month.  Farmers are switching because they can make more money from
other crops. Corn’s net revenue over soybeans was as much as
$200 an acre in the Midwest on April 8, while cotton produces a
premium of as much as $300 an acre in the South, according to
 Roy Huckabay , an executive vice president for the Linn Group in
 Chicago .  Soybean plantings may be as much as 2 million acres below
the USDA estimate because other crop prices have kept surging
since the survey was carried out, DEC Capital’s Carper said. The
USDA has overestimated soybean plantings in five of the past
seven years.  “We are considering planting more corn than we planned
this year because of the surge in prices,” said Jim Rapp, 62,
who farms about 2,600 acres near Princeton,  Illinois . “We have
a better chance to produce a big corn crop than we do growing
soybeans.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jeff Wilson in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  