-- 
China Reports First Quarterly Trade Deficit in Seven Years

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-10T05:19:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/china-posts-unexpected-140-million-trade-surplus-in-march-as-exports-rise.html
China’s first quarterly trade
deficit in seven years may ease pressure on the world’s biggest
exporter to allow faster appreciation of the yuan.  Asia ’s largest economy had a deficit of $1.02 billion in
the first three months of the year compared with a surplus of
$13.9 billion a year earlier, the customs bureau said on its
website today. Imports jumped 32.6 percent to a quarterly record
of $400.7 billion, helped by stronger domestic demand and higher
global commodity prices, the bureau said.  China’s trading partners, including the U.S., say faster
yuan appreciation is needed to help address global imbalances
that contributed to the financial crisis. Premier  Wen Jiabao 
said last month exchange-rate reform must be gradual to maintain
social stability, and that boosting domestic demand is the best
way the nation can contribute.  “This is a sign that  China ’s rebalancing efforts are
advancing more rapidly than many had thought and it will take
some heat off the pressure for faster yuan gains,” said Shen Jianguang, a Hong Kong-based economist at Mizuho Securities Asia
Ltd. He expects the  trade surplus  to drop to below $150 billion
this year from $183 billion last year.  The trade surplus was $196 billion in 2009, down from a
record $295 billion in 2008, customs data show. The gap will
decline this year as exporters come under pressure from rising
labor and raw material costs and imports are supported by strong
domestic demand, Shen said.  Imports Surge  The surge in commodity prices, which contributed to the
first-quarter trade deficit, is adding to inflationary pressure.
That may prompt the government to allow faster yuan appreciation.  Inbound crude oil shipments in the first quarter rose 12
percent by volume and 39 percent by value to $43.7 billion,
according to today’s customs data. The cost of iron ore imports
jumped 82.5 percent to $27.7 billion while the amount of metal
climbed 14.4 percent.  “China is still facing strong pressure from imported
inflation,” said Liu Li-Gang, an economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group in  Hong Kong  who formerly worked for the
 World Bank . “While the authorities can use fiscal subsidies to
offset this, the exchange rate tool is more effective to contain
imported inflation.”  Liu forecasts the yuan will rise 6 percent against the
dollar this year. China has held the gains to 4 percent in the
past year, with U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner 
continuing to describe the currency as “substantially
undervalued.” The yuan reached a 17-year high of 6.5350 per
dollar on April 8.  Record Reserves  China’s previous quarterly trade deficit was more than $8
billion in the first three months of 2004.  The unexpected $140 million surplus last month compared
with the median forecast for a deficit of $3.35 billion in a
Bloomberg News survey of 24 economists.  Imports in March jumped by more than economists estimated,
rising 27.3 percent from a year earlier to a record $152 billion,
the customs bureau said. Exports also climbed by more than
expected, surging 35.8 percent to $152.2 billion and close to
December’s record of $154 billion, customs data show.  Trade surpluses and currency controls have boosted China’s
foreign-exchange reserves to a world record and highlighted
global economic imbalances that governments from the biggest
economies are debating how to resolve.  While the U.S. focuses on the yuan as a cause of an
imbalance in bilateral trade, China highlights U.S. restrictions
on exports of high-technology products.  China’s central bank will announce in coming days the
latest figures for the nation’s foreign-exchange holdings, which
climbed to $2.98 trillion in the first quarter, according to the
median estimate in a Bloomberg News survey of economists.  --Zheng Lifei, Sophie Leung. With assistance from  Jay Wang  in
 Singapore , Victoria Ruan, Huang Zhe, Regina Tan and Baizhen Chua
in Beijing, Huiwan Yang in  Shanghai . Editors: Nerys Avery,  John
Liu .  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zheng Lifei in Beijing at +86-10-6649-7560
or  lzheng32@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  