-- 
China Denies Breach of Carbon Credit Rules Cited in Confidential Documents

-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r   a n d   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 
2011-04-11T16:26:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/china-denies-breach-of-co2-rules-cited-in-confidential-document.html
Chinese environment officials
rejected claims in a document indicating some chemical factories
may have adjusted output levels to maximize  United Nations 
carbon credits, defying market rules.  Among 11 chemical plants in China that receive emission
credits for cutting one of the most-potent  greenhouse gases ,
nine curbed production after reaching an allowable cap,
according to a Nov. 16 report attributed to the United Nations
and marked “confidential.” That may suggest they were
maximizing credits rather than filling demand for product, the
document said. UN officials declined this week to authenticate
the document, obtained by Bloomberg News.  The credits from projects that cut hydrofluorocarbon-23,  a
greenhouse gas that can trap 11,700 times more heat per molecule
than carbon dioxide, will be banned in the European Union
emissions-trading system starting in May 2013 under a proposal
to curb “exorbitant” returns. The UN has approved projects
tied to 3.5 billion euros ($5 billion) of credits since 2005,
about half the total in the UN emissions market.  UN carbon credits known as Certified Emission Reductions
fell 18 cents, or 1.4 percent to 12.85 euros on the ICE Futures
Europe exchange in Europe, reducing this year’s gain to 13
percent.  Chemical production decreases at the Chinese plants
probably because they need to stop for maintenance after
reaching capacity, said Yan Li, a manager in  China ’s ministry of
environmental protection in Beijing, which oversees five of the
11 projects. The facilities aren’t seeking more credits than
they deserve, she said in an e-mailed response to questions.  ‘Great Loss’  Li said the EU should drop its proposed ban on credits
linked to HFC. “If this ban comes into effect, it will bring
great loss to both Chinese project participants and European
buyers,” she said.  UN credits traded for 3.92 euros a ton cheaper than EU
permits for December today in London. That discount widens to
about 10.45 euros for delivery of credits in 2020.  The ban will “ruin the market confidence,” diminish
enthusiasm for investments in fighting  climate change  and hurt
the reputation of the UN carbon regulator, she said.  Under the UN’s so-called Clean Development Mechanism,
companies receive credits as a reward for financing projects to
cut emissions in poorer countries. Known as offset credits, they
can be sold to utilities and factories that use them to comply
with EU emissions limits.  HFC Investors  Enel SpA (ENEL) ,  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  RWE AG (RWE)  are among investors in
the HFC-23 credits, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  HFC is produced as waste when chemical plants make
 hydrochlorofluorocarbon-22 , used as a refrigerant and to make
plastics. The destruction of HFC-23 can be carried out at a cost
of 17 euro cents a ton of CO2 equivalent, according to CDM-
Watch, the Bonn-based environmental lobby group. That’s about
1.3 percent of the value of credits they attract.  The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change published the
 executive summary  last year of the Nov. 16 document provided to
Bloomberg. The UNFCCC declined to publish the full report
because it contains commercially sensitive data, Lex de Jonge,
vice chairman of the Clean Development Mechanism Methodologies
Panel, said in a phone interview on April 4.  Eleven of 16 HCF-23-cutting projects analyzed had lower
output after reaching their caps. Facilities are also located in
 India ,  Argentina ,  Korea  and  Mexico . Because five of them boosted
production after hitting the limit, “it is difficult to draw
conclusions on individual plants,” according to the document.  Maximizing Credits?  Nineteen plants that cut HFC-23 have received 270 million
tons of credits under the program since 2005, according to UN
data.  The UN halted issuance of some emissions credits last year
after allegations of “gaming the system” by environmental
groups CDM Watch and the Environmental Investigation Agency.  “The report confirms EIA’s warnings about significant
flaws in the HFC-23 methodology, which allow for manipulation of
global carbon markets and production of bogus carbon credits,”
Fionnuala Walravens, a London-based campaign leader at EIA, said
in an e-mail. “ Europe ’s decision to ban HFC-23 credits in phase
three was clearly an environmentally responsible decision. We
urge other markets to follow suit.”  Shandong Dongyue Chemical Co., which has a plant at Zibo
City in the Shandong province of China, wasn’t operating to
maximize emission credits, Xiao Gang Niu, assistant general
manager of the installation, said by phone April 7.  Demand, Maintenance  The plant’s output dropped 13 percent after reaching its
cap, according to the document. “Sometimes production is
higher. Sometimes it’s lower” because of demand and
maintenance, Niu said.  The production of HCFC-22 at the 19 CDM plants more than
doubled to 334,579 metric tons in 2010 from 164,672 tons in
2002, the first year with complete figures in the document,
according to estimates in the document. Production is more than
the cap set under the CDM, which was 272,289 tons, and less than
the installations’ collective capacity of 473,803 tons, the
figures show.  Data compiled since August last year in China “shows the
production of HCFC-22 matches the market demand and the firms do
not produce excessive HCFC-22 for the purpose of profits from
CDM projects,” Li said.  Inconclusive Results  Plants might  win more credits  should they produce more HFC-
23 waste for each ton of HCFC-22, measured by a so-called w
factor, according to the document obtained by Bloomberg. Of 16
plants analyzed, 10 had lower w factors once they reached their
caps, while six had higher w factors. These results were also
“inconclusive,” it said.  The w factors used by plants were “conservative” and
determined mainly by the type of technology used, said China’s
Li. “Even if there were space for HCFC-22 production
enterprises to improve their efficiency, so as to reduce HFC-23
generation, the space would be very small.”  More than 11,000 power plants and factories in the EU
system may use UN credits as a cheaper way to comply. The UN
regulators in November called for a revision of the HFC-23-
project-approval rules. New rules may be available later this
year, according to the methodologies panel’s de Jonge.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net 
Catherine Airlie at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on 
 sev@bloomberg.net  