-- 
Czech Premier Set to Replace Ministers Amid Coalition Fight

-- B y   P e t e r   L a c a
-- 
2011-04-11T10:38:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/czech-premier-set-to-replace-ministers-as-cabinet-tensions-rise.html
Czech Prime Minister Petr Necas is
poised to dismiss two ministers in a dispute over the Cabinet
makeup that has heightened tensions in the three-party ruling
coalition as it prepares measures to cut the  budget deficit .  Necas wants to sack Interior Minister Radek John and
Education Minister Josef Dobes, members of the smallest
coalition member. John, chairman of the Public Affairs party,
said he would accept the dismissals if Necas also fired three
other Cabinet members, including Finance Minister Miroslav Kalousek.  Coalition tensions are increasing as the Cabinet drafts
legislative changes for an overhaul of the money-losing pension
system, planned from the start of 2013. The government’s pledge
to trim the fiscal gap below the European Union’s limit of 3
percent of economic output by 2013 has helped the koruna gain
5.5 percent against the euro since May 2010 elections.  President Vaclav Klaus, who will meet with Necas at Prague
Castle today, said before the talks that he wants a “plan, a
project, outlining how the government will continue to operate”
to avoid “an unorganized, chaotic process.”  Necas wants to dismiss John and Dobes because they were
connected to a detective and security agency that was formerly
owned by Vit Barta, a member of Public Affairs executive
council, and which sponsored the party.  Barta’s Resignation  Barta, running to become Public Affairs leader, resigned
his post as Transport Minister on April 8 after allegations of
improper financial dealings. Barta denied any wrongdoing and
Necas accepted his resignation.  Public Affairs, also known as VV, “supports the governing
coalition,” John said in a debate on state television
yesterday. “All we are saying is that if the presumption of
guilt was applied on a VV minister, then we want it to be
applied on other ministers as well.”  John said today he wants a meeting of the coalition to
discuss the situation. He didn’t say whether his party will
leave the coalition or stop supporting the government in
parliament if Necas refuses to accept the Public Affairs’
demands. Public Affairs last week expelled three deputies from
its parliamentary caucus after a row over party financing,
reducing the government’s majority to 115 votes in the 200-seat
lower house.  Repeated Clashes  The ruling parties have repeatedly clashed over personnel
issues and the measures needed to meet their goals. Public
Affairs refused until the last moment to pledge support for the
government ahead of a no-confidence motion in parliament in
December. It also backed out of a preliminary deal on the
overhaul of the pension system in March and forced through last-
minute changes to the plan.  Necas’s Civic Democrats also clashed with Public Affairs
over who will lead the national police force. The third
coalition member, TOP09, demanded the dismissal of Defense
Minister Alexandr Vondra, a Civic Democrat, while Public Affairs
opposes parts of a planned tax-system revamp presented by
Finance MinisterKalousek, a TOP09 member.  The Czechs are the last of the four largest post-communist
economies in the EU preparing to boost private savings for
retirement as the government expects an aging population to
reduce the number of workers paying for pensions. The country’s
debt rating of A may be raised if the government follows through
on pledges to reduce spending and revamp the pension system,
 Standard & Poor’s  has said.  The koruna was little changed today at 24.423 per euro as
of 12:21 p.m. in Prague.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Laca in Prague at   placa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Willy Morris at   wmorris@bloomberg.net  