-- 
Discouraged Workers Stop Fed From Taking Comfort in Jobless Fall

-- B y   R i c h   M i l l e r
-- 
2011-04-11T15:21:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/discouraged-workers-stop-bernanke-from-taking-much-comfort-in-jobless-fall.html
The sharpest drop in unemployment
in more than a quarter century obscures a simple fact: The jobs
market still isn’t working for many Americans.  Some 6.3 million people have been out of work and looking
for a job for more than six months. The employment-to-population
ratio is lower than it was when the recession ended as companies
have been slow to add to payrolls. And big sources of hiring in
the past -- government, health care and retailing -- may not be
able to reprise that role in the future as lawmakers limit
outlays and consumers curb spending.  “The trends are a little bit scary,” said Nobel laureate
Michael Spence, a professor at  New York  University. “There’s
been a break in an important part of the social contract” for
many Americans who are finding they can’t get ahead.  Mixed messages from the jobs numbers make decisions more
difficult for Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  and his
central bank colleagues as they wrestle over monetary policy.  Rising prices and falling unemployment -- the jobless rate
dropped to 8.8 percent in March from 9.8 percent in November,
the biggest four-month decline since 1983 -- suggest that the
Fed should raise rates from near zero later this year to keep
inflation in check, according to  Joseph LaVorgna , chief U.S.
economist for Deutsche Bank Securities in New York.  He sees yields on  Treasury securities  rising, with the two-
year note hitting 1.25 percent to 1.5 percent and the 10-year-
note climbing to 4 percent by the end of the year. They were
0.81 percent and 3.58 percent at 5:16 p.m. April 8 in New York,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.  Depressed Employment  Alan Krueger, a former Treasury official, argues that
policy makers shouldn’t be tightening monetary policy in the
face of depressed employment and elevated long-term joblessness.  “I would like to see QE 2.5,” with the Fed completing its
second round of quantitative easing in June and then buying more
Treasury securities thereafter, said Krueger, who is now a
professor of economics at  Princeton University  in  New Jersey .  That’s not likely to happen, said Roberto Perli, a former
Fed official who is managing director of International Strategy
& Investment in Washington. The threshold for additional
purchases beyond the $600 billion in QE2 is “very high at this
point,” he said. The debate at the Fed instead focuses on how
fast to remove the record stimulus the central bank has pumped
into the economy.  Fed policy makers agreed at their last meeting that “gains
in employment seemed to be on a gradually rising trajectory,”
though there was still substantial slack in the labor market,
according to the minutes of their March 15 gathering.  No Improvement  For Dan LaRue, a 60-year-old former marketing specialist
for JPMorgan Chase & Co., there’s scant sign that the jobs
market is getting better.  “The reality of what I’m seeing and what my fellow
unemployed coworkers are seeing doesn’t jibe” with reports of
an improving labor market, said LaRue, who’s been without a
full-time job for more than two years. “It’s kind of ugly out
there.”  The New York City resident said he’s borrowing money from
his 81-year-old mother to help make ends meet. “I hate it, but
thank God she’s there,” he said. “I’m willing to take a pay
cut, but I don’t think I’m even being considered.”  The ratio of people employed to the population stood at
58.5 percent in March, down 0.8 percentage point from July 2009
when the recovery began and up just 0.3 point from a 27-year low
of 58.2 percent in November 2010, according to data from the
Labor Department.  Better Measure  The ratio is a better measure of the jobs market because,
unlike the  unemployment rate , it isn’t affected by changes in
the size of the  labor force , said  Edward Leamer , a professor of
management, economics and statistics at the  University of
California  at  Los Angeles .  About half of the fall in the jobless rate during the last
four months was caused by Americans who gave up looking for work
and left the labor force -- a development that he said isn’t
something to welcome. “It’s people getting so discouraged that
they’re dropping out,” said Leamer, who is also director of
UCLA Anderson Forecast.  That number may grow later this year as extended government
unemployment benefits run out, Krueger added. To collect those
benefits, the jobless must show that they are searching for
work, and the longer people are without a job, the less time
they spend looking, according to a study of 6,025 unemployed
that Krueger conducted with Andreas Mueller of Stockholm
University in 2009 and 2010.  Long-Term Unemployment  Some 45.5 percent of those classified by the Labor
Department as jobless in March had been without work for more
than six months, just off the record high of 45.6 percent set in
May last year.  The waning intensity of their searches suggests that they
may not be putting as much downward pressures on wages -- and
inflation -- as some macroeconomic models assume, said James Stock, a professor of economics at  Harvard University  in
Cambridge,  Massachusetts .  That doesn’t mean the Fed should start worrying about
accelerating prices, according to Stock. “We still have a very
weak economy,” he said. “Disinflation strikes me as a much
greater risk than inflation at the moment.”  Gwen Robbins, a 61-year-old resident of Savannah,  Georgia ,
is a self-styled 99er, so called because her 99 weeks of
employment benefits ran out in January. Robbins, an office
manager until December 2008, said she’s “applied for probably
close to 400 jobs” since then.  ‘Giving Up’  “I’m giving up on the private sector,” said Robbins, when
asked if she’s continuing her search. Many companies seem more
interested in hiring younger applicants, she said, adding that
she now is seeking public-sector work with the city.  The jobs-market recovery remains “lackluster,” the
 International Monetary Fund  said in its World Economic Outlook
report. The Washington-based lender forecasts that U.S.
unemployment will average 8.5 percent this year and 7.8 percent
in 2012.  The flaws in the labor market were aggravated by the  recent
recession  but didn’t start there, according to Krueger. The
employment-to-population ratio in the last expansion, which
began in 2002, never reached the 64.7 percent peak it attained
in 2000 during the previous upturn.  Rising income inequality and sluggish wage growth during
the last expansion also suggest that the labor market’s troubles
are ingrained, Spence said. Average hourly earnings showed
little growth from 2002 to 2007 when adjusted for inflation.  Machines Replacing People  Economists posit a variety of reasons for the dysfunction.
Spence attributes it partly to globalization, as  China  and other
emerging markets take work Americans once did. Leamer points to
technology, with machines replacing people in the production
process. For Krueger, some of the fault lies with the U.S.
education system and training programs for not providing
employees with the skills they need.  The challenges facing the U.S. involve both the quality and
quantity of jobs created, Spence said. A study he did with  New
York University  researcher Sandile Hlatshwayo showed that
virtually all of the growth in employment between 1990 and 2008
was in the nontradable sector of the economy, which isn’t
subject to international competition. Government and health care
together accounted for almost 40 percent of the jobs added.  Employment growth in that sector is likely to slow as
 government spending  is restrained, the authors argue in a  paper 
for the  Council on Foreign Relations  in New York. Value added
per person grew 0.7 percent a year in the period studied, which
explains why wage gains for these types of jobs were limited,
they say.  Bigger Compensation  Value-added in the tradable arena, which includes
manufacturing and financial services, grew by an average 2.3
percent a year, allowing these employees to enjoy bigger
compensation increases. The sector as a whole added few net
jobs, though, as manufacturers in particular moved production
overseas, Spence and Hlatshwayo wrote.  The result, according to the paper: growing income
inequality as many of the jobs the U.S. created were low-paying
ones that added limited value.  “The American dream is being seriously tested right now,”
Leamer said. “It’s an emergency for the middle class.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Miller in  Washington  at 
 rmiller28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  