-- 
Euro Falls on Bets European Interest-Rate Boost to Hurt Ireland, Portugal

-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 
2011-04-11T21:17:54Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/dollar-advances-as-u-s-lawmakers-agree-to-spending-cuts-to-avert-shutdown.html
The euro dropped from almost a 15-
month high against the dollar on bets an increase in European
 interest rates  will make it harder for nations including Ireland
and Portugal to contain debt.  The yen gained versus all of its major counterparts, rising
from an 11-month low against the euro, after an aftershock of
Japan’s March 11 earthquake discouraged demand for riskier
assets. The dollar remained lower versus the yen as Federal
Reserve Vice Chairman  Janet Yellen  said gains in food and fuel
costs don’t warrant an end to record monetary stimulus.  “Raising interest rates is always going to be bad for the
periphery, and it’s hard to run the ECB because you have all
these countries not moving in step,” said  Brian Taylor , chief
currency trader a Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co. in Buffalo,
New York. “You have to look out for No. 1, and at this point
that is  Germany . The  European Central Bank  is going to move with
probably multiple interest-rate hikes before the U.S., so the
euro is supported by buyers on dips.”  The euro decreased 0.3 percent to $1.4436 at 5 p.m. in New
York, from $1.4483 on April 8, when it reached $1.4489, the
highest level since January 2010. The yen gained 0.5 percent to
122.12 against the euro, from 122.76, reversing an earlier slide
to 123.33, the weakest level since May 5. Japan’s currency
appreciated 0.2 percent to 84.60 per dollar, from 84.76, after
touching 85.53 on April 6, the weakest level since Sept. 21.  Bank of Canada  The Canadian dollar slid from almost a three-year high
versus the greenback before the  Bank of Canada ’s policy meeting
tomorrow. The central bank is forecast by all of the 28
economists in a Bloomberg News survey to keep the target lending
rate at 1 percent, where it has been since September.  The currency depreciated 0.1 percent to 95.66 cents per
 U.S. dollar  after touching 95.27 cents on April 8, the strongest
level since November 2007.  The euro has gained 8 percent against the dollar since the
start of this year as improving economic growth in Germany and
accelerating inflation boosted speculation that interest rates
will be lifted further.  ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet  and colleagues raised the
main refinancing rate last week to 1.25 percent from a record
low 1 percent, where it had been since 2009, and left the door
open for further rate increases.  ‘A Little Troubling’  “The euro pushed up on Trichet and his hawkishness and the
ECB hiking rates before the U.S., and is now taking a step
back,” said  Greg Salvaggio , senior vice president of capital
markets at Tempus Consulting Inc. in  Washington . “It’s a little
troubling policy position given the fact that with the ECB
hiking interest rates it’s going to make it much more difficult
for periphery countries to pull themselves out of economic
malaise and the sovereign-debt crisis.”  Yields on five-year Portuguese debt advanced 0.03
percentage point to 10 percent, with the extra yield over German
bonds at 7.19 percentage points. The yield on the Portuguese
notes rose on a closing basis to a record high 10.144 percent on
April 5.  Portugal  will start negotiations with the European Union
and the  International Monetary Fund  this week on a rescue
package estimated at 80 billion euros ($115 billion.)  The yen rose from almost a six-month low against the dollar
three weeks after the Group of Seven sold Japan’s currency as it
touched a record high, threatening the recovery of the nation’s
export-driven economy.  Aftershock in Japan  Tokyo Electric Power Co.’s stricken nuclear station
withstood a 6.6-magnitude earthquake today, while the government
widened the evacuation zone around the plant after radiation
levels rose.  The yen often gains in times of turmoil because the
country’s economy doesn’t need foreign capital to balance
current accounts.  The seven-day relative strength index of the dollar against
the yen fell below 70 for the first time in nine days in a sign
the greenback’s gain may be too fast to be sustained.  Japan ’s currency surged to a post-World War II record of
76.25 versus the dollar on March 17 as the nation’s largest
recorded earthquake and subsequent tsunami and nuclear power
plant radiation leaks spurred speculation financial companies
would repatriate funds to help pay for the damage.  G-7 nations sold about $25 billion of yen on March 18 to
stem the appreciation, which threatened to undermine the
recovery of Japan’s export-driven economy.  ‘Nice Run’  “We’ve had a nice run in risk trades in the past couple of
weeks, and along with it the yen has moved significantly weaker
after the G-7 intervention,” said Carl Forcheski, a director on
the corporate currency sales desk at Societe Generale SA in  New
York . “A lot of market participants see the trend and like the
trend, but are finding it difficult to buy further from these
levels, and the aftershock was enough to give the market a
little bit of pause.”  IntercontinentalExchange Inc.’s Dollar Index, used to track
the greenback versus the currencies of six major U.S. trading
partners, was little changed at 75.043 after falling on April 8
to as low as 74.838, the least since December 2009.  Yellen suggested in a New York speech today that the Fed
will complete its $600 billion program of Treasury purchases,
indicating that food and fuel costs will only have a temporary
impact on inflation.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Allison Bennett in New York at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  