-- 
Egyptian Inflation Accelerates With Jump in Food Prices That Sparked Riots

-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e   a n d   M a r i a m   F a m
-- 
2011-04-10T15:38:32Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/egyptian-inflation-accelerates-to-11-5-in-march-as-food-prices-increase.html
Egyptian inflation accelerated in
March on rising food prices, one of the causes of the unrest
that toppled President  Hosni Mubarak .  The inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt, the gauge that
the  central bank  monitors, rose to 11.5 percent from 10.7
percent in February, the Central Agency for Public Mobilization
and Statistics said on its website today. Prices increased 1.4
percent on a monthly basis, it said. Beltone Financial and CI
Capital, two Cairo-based investment banks, had forecast
inflation at 10.8 percent.  “With inflation remaining to be food-prices led, we
maintain our view that Central Bank of Egypt  interest rates  are
likely to remain unchanged,” Beltone said in an e-mailed report
today. The central bank will meet on April 28 to review interest
rates.  Eighteen days of protests in  Egypt , sparked by falling
living standards and high unemployment as well as a lack of
democratic rights, led to the ouster of Mubarak on Feb. 11. The
economy is still reeling from the impact of the uprising. Growth
may slow this fiscal year to between 2.5 and 3 percent from 5.1
percent in the previous year, Finance Minister Samir Radwan
said.  The  central bank  on March 10 left its overnight deposit
rate unchanged at a four-year low of 8.25 percent and kept the
overnight lending rate at 9.75 percent to support economic
growth. The Monetary Policy Committee last raised interest rates
in September 2008.  Core Inflation  Core inflation, which excludes the prices of fruits and
vegetables as well as regulated prices, eased to an annual rate
of 8.54 percent in March from 9.51 percent in the previous
month, the central bank said in a statement on its  website.   As protests continue, tourists have stayed away and factory
output has been hit by strikes. Egypt’s net international
reserves fell for a third month in March to $30.1 billion, the
lowest level in more than three years, from $33.3 billion in the
previous month, after the central bank bought pounds to prop up
the currency.  The prices of food and vegetables, the biggest component in
the  consumer price index , rose 20.5 percent this year, the
statistics agency said today. On a monthly basis, they increased
3.3 percent, it said.  Juhayna Food Industries (JUFO) , Egypt’s biggest publicly traded
producer of packaged milk rose 0.9 percent, the most since April
3, to 5.41 Egyptian pounds at the 2:30 p.m. close in Cairo. The
benchmark EGX 30 Index fell 1.4 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net ;
Mariam Fam in Cairo at 
 mfam1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 