-- 
Egypt’s Prosecutor Summons Mubarak, Sons for Investigation Into Attacks

-- B y   E d i t o r s :   [ b n : P R S N = 1 6 6 6 1 6 6 9 ]   D i g b y   L i d s t o n e   [ ]
-- 
2011-04-10T17:11:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/egypt-s-prosecutor-summons-mubarak-sons-for-investigation-into-attacks.html
Egypt ’s public prosecutor said it
ordered ousted president  Hosni Mubarak  and two of his sons to be
summoned for questioning about attacks against protesters and
the alleged embezzlement of public funds.  Mubarak earlier said in his first public speech since he
ceded power to the military on Feb. 11 that he would co-operate
with any investigation and that he didn’t have any assets
abroad. The prosecutor said in a faxed statement that the
comments won’t affect its plans to investigate reports of
corruption and the violence that killed and wounded protesters
during demonstrations starting on Jan. 25.  Protests in Egypt, which were sparked by falling living
standards and high unemployment as well as a lack of democratic
rights, continued on April 8, when tens of thousands gathered in
Tahrir Square to demand that the former leader and other members
of his regime be brought quickly to trial. The square had been
the main rallying point for the protests that forced Mubarak
from office.  “I was hurt a lot from the unjust campaigns and false
allegations that I and my family face, which harms my reputation
and my integrity,” Mubarak said in an audio recording aired by
Al Arabiya television today. “I preserve all my legal rights to
pursue all those who intended to harm me and my reputation.”  Travel Ban  Since the end of his three-decade rule, the former leader
and his family have been living in the Red Sea resort of  Sharm
el-Sheikh . The prosecutor ordered the assets of Mubarak and his
family to be frozen and banned them from travelling, the state-
run Middle East News Agency reported on Feb. 28.  Mubarak said he would also allow the prosecutor to
investigate whether he, his wife Suzanne or his sons,
businessmen Alaa and Gamal, owned any real estate or property
since he took power in 1981.  The economy is still reeling from the impact of the
uprising, in which more than 300 people died, according to  Human
Rights Watch . Growth may slow this fiscal year to between 2.5
and 3 percent from 5.1 percent in the previous year, Finance
Minister Samir Radwan said. 