-- 
Egypt Stocks Drop After Protesters Clash With Security Forces

-- B y   A h m e d   A   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-04-10T14:59:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/egypt-stocks-drop-after-protesters-clash-with-security-forces.html
Egyptian shares fell the most in
more than two weeks after a demonstrator was killed and dozens
were injured as security and military forces cleared protesters
from downtown Cairo yesterday.  Commercial International Bank SAE, the country’s biggest
publicly traded lender, retreated to the lowest level since
March 24.  Ezz Steel (ESRS) , the North African nation’s biggest steel
producer, slumped 2.1 percent. The  EGX 30 Index (EGX30)  dropped 1.4
percent, the biggest decline since March 24, to 5,349.02 at the
2:30 p.m. close in Cairo.  One person was killed and 71 were wounded after the army
dispersed overnight protesters in Cairo’s Tahrir Square early
Saturday, state-run Middle East News Agency reported, citing the
health ministry. Thousands of people gathered April 8 in the
downtown square demanding prompt trials for former president
 Hosni Mubarak  and his top officials.  “The weekend caused a lot of confusion and investors are
beginning to think the market was overbought,” said Teymour El-
Derini, head of Middle East Sales at Cairo-based Naeem
Brokerage.  “We expect weakness in the market over the next few
days.”  Inflation  Egypt ’s benchmark stock index has gained 8 percent since
reaching this year’s low on March 24. Trading resumed March 23
after an almost two-month halt as protests led to the ouster of
the North African country’s president.  Inflation in Egypt accelerated in March on rising food
prices, one of the causes of the unrest that toppled Mubarak.
The inflation rate in urban parts of Egypt, the gauge that the
central bank monitors, rose to 11.5 percent from 10.7 percent in
February, the Central Agency for Public Mobilization and
Statistics said on its website today.  Commercial International fell 2.3 percent to 30.85 Egyptian
pounds. Ezz retreated to 10.46 pounds, the lowest level this
month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  