-- 
Tsunami That Struck Fukushima Was 15 Meters High

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k
-- 
2011-04-10T09:36:28Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/tepco-says-damaged-fukushima-nuclear-plant-was-hit-by-a-15-meter-tsunami.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. said the
tsunami generated by last month’s earthquake was as high as 15
meters at its crippled nuclear station, which has been leaking
radiation since the surge knocked out backup power systems.  The utility provided its first assessment of the height of
the tsunami since the March 11 quake, after criticism from the
government and evacuees that it was slow in responding to the
disaster. The base of the station is about 10 meters (33 feet)
above  sea level .  “Most of the area around the reactor buildings and turbine
housings was swamped,” the utility known as Tepco said in a
statement late yesterday.  Almost one month on from the disaster, Tepco is still using
emergency equipment to try to cool reactors damaged at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station north of Tokyo after mains
electricity was knocked out. The company is trying to prevent
further explosions after blasts damaged containment structures,
releasing radiation into the air and sea.  Tepco plans to start transferring high-level radioactive
water in a trench at the station’s No. 2 reactor to a condenser.  “We aim to drain the contaminated water away immediately
as the level has risen to less than one meter below the top of
the trench,” said Teruaki Kobayashi, the head of the company’s
nuclear maintenance group, today in  Tokyo .  60,000 Tons  About 60,000 metric tons of contaminated water lies in the
basements of turbine buildings and trenches around the No. 1, 2
and 3 reactors, the company said last week. Tepco needs to drain
the water to restore reactor cooling systems in the turbine
buildings.  Tokyo Electric plans to complete the release of low-level
radioactive water into the sea from a waste treatment facility
at the plant today, Jun Nakagawa, a spokesman for the utility,
said by phone from Tokyo.  The company plans to use the space for storage for more
contaminated water.  “Work to restore the cooling systems is lagging behind
because it’s taking longer than expected to drain radioactive
water from the basements,” Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear
engineering professor at  Kyoto University , said yesterday.  The utility plans to begin using a remotely controlled
helicopter to investigate conditions at the nuclear station
today, a day behind schedule because of bad weather, Naoki
Tsunoda, a spokesman for the utility, said yesterday.  Tepco said on April 8 that the station, which has six
reactors and is about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo,
wasn’t further damaged by a magnitude-7.1 aftershock on April 7.  Record Quake  The March 11 magnitude-9 earthquake,  Japan ’s strongest on
record, and tsunami left more than 27,700 dead or missing as of
10 a.m. Tokyo time yesterday, according to Japan’s  National
Police Agency . The government estimated the damage at 25
trillion yen ($295 billion).  Almost 85,000 people in Fukushima remain in evacuation
centers after leaving the area around the nuclear power plant or
because their homes were destroyed in the tsunami, according to
the prefectural government’s website.  Fifteen engineers were able to return to the nuclear plant
site after the April 7 quake. They continue to pump nitrogen
into one of the reactors, part of an effort to prevent hydrogen
explosions at the plant,  Tokyo Electric  said.  There have been no indications of plant damage at Fukushima
Dai-Ichi or changes in radiation levels following the
aftershock, Takashi Kurita, a company spokesman, said April 8.  At Tepco’s Fukushima Dai-Ni power plant, located to the
south of the Dai-Ichi station, the tsunami surge reached as high
as 7 meters, damaging a heat exchanger, without reaching the
turbines or reactors. The station has been in cold shutdown
since the disaster.  The company’s stock has fallen 80 percent since March 10,
the day before the disaster. The shares rose 80 yen, or 24
percent, to 420 yen on April 8, their biggest gain since 1974.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@blooomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  