-- 
Europe Strategists Twice as Bullish as U.S. as Net Rises 20%

-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 
2011-04-11T16:05:45Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/europe-strategists-twice-as-bullish-as-u-s-with-net-rising-most-since-05.html
European companies are reporting
the biggest profit rise in six years as the region’s economic
expansion overcomes the sovereign debt crisis, making stock
strategists almost twice as bullish as their U.S. counterparts.  While  Portugal  became the third euro member to seek a
bailout from the European Union, the benchmark Stoxx Europe 600
Index rose 0.6 percent last week, extending its two-year rally
to 78 percent. The region’s single currency posted its biggest
first-quarter gain on record. Yields on Spanish and Italian
bonds are falling compared with German bunds, a signal investors
don’t expect the debt debacle to spread. Equity valuations are
near two-year lows.  Earnings for Stoxx 600 companies may rise 20 percent in
2011, led by exporters from Bayerische Motoren Werke AG to Cie.
de Saint-Gobain, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The
increase would bring the two-year gain to 93 percent, the most
since 2005, leading 11 strategists tracked by Bloomberg to
predict an 8.1 percent rise in benchmark indexes. U.S. forecasts
show the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index will gain 5.3 percent.  “Profits are there and this shows us the economy is in
good health,” Alain Bokobza, the Paris-based head of asset
allocation strategy at Societe Generale SA, which manages $300
billion, said in a phone interview from  New York . “Equities
should remain resilient.”  93% Rally  The Stoxx 600 slipped 0.2 percent to 280.99 at the 4:30
p.m. close of trading in London, bringing the year’s advance to
1.9 percent. The forecast rally would lift the index to 304.6 by
the end of the year, extending its increase since the market
bottom in March 2009 to 93 percent.  Net income for companies in the index probably rose 33
percent in the first quarter, Bloomberg data show.  Companies in the Stoxx 600 trade for 13.7 times reported
profits, compared with 15.6 for the  S&P 500 , according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That’s the biggest discount since the
start of 2009. The ratio falls to 11.3 for 2011 European
estimates, the lowest level since 2008 based on reported income.  “ Europe  looks cheap relative to the U.S.,” Gary Baker,
head of pan-European equity strategy at BofA Merrill Lynch
Global Research, said in a Bloomberg Television interview on
April 6. “You’re still going to see above-long-term-average
rates of earnings growth this year and next, so there’s still a
reasonable backdrop in terms of profitability.”  BMW, Saint-Gobain  BMW in Munich reported 2010 earnings last month that beat
analysts’ estimates, helped by Chinese sales of its 5-Series
cars. Courbevoie, France-based Saint-Gobain, Europe’s biggest
supplier of building materials, has risen 7.4 percent since Feb.
25, when it said sales in emerging markets would help operating
profit increase at least 10 percent in 2011.  British American
Tobacco Plc (BATS)  in  London  rallied to a record high this month as
Europe’s largest cigarette maker increased prices in  Japan  and
sold more premium Kent cigarettes in  Russia .  Stock gains will slow in 2011 unless a solution is found to
Europe’s fiscal crisis, said James McCaughan, chief executive
officer of Principal Global Investors LLC in Des Moines,  Iowa ,
which manages money for 10 of the world’s 25 largest pension
funds. Short-term financial aid for  Greece , Ireland and Portugal
won’t be enough and it’s “inevitable” they will restructure
debt, according to Harvard University professor Kenneth Rogoff.  Portugal asked for EU assistance last week after Prime
Minister Jose Socrates ran out of options as the country faced 9
billion euros ($13 billion) of bond maturities in April and
June. The nation’s 2010  budget deficit  equaled 8.6 percent of
gross domestic product, higher than the 7.3 percent the
government previously forecast.  Rescue Packages  Euro-region ministers agreed to a 110 billion-euro rescue
package for Greece in May 2010 after it was unable to rein in
the budget deficit. Ireland was forced to follow in November,
receiving 85 billion euros to prevent a default.  The EU created the 440 billion-euro European Financial
Stability Facility last year. Europe’s parliament approved the
formation of a permanent European Stability Mechanism last month
to succeed the EFSF.  “When it ultimately gets resolved, it will involve
rescheduling debt for several countries, probably Ireland,
Portugal, Greece and maybe even  Spain ,” McCaughan said. “That
partial default will hit the capital ratios of European banks,
slowing the economy. I would expect European equities to
underperform the U.S. for quite some time to come because of how
the debt crisis will emerge.”  Yield Spreads  The extra yield, or spread, investors demand to hold 10-
year Greek government debt instead of its German equivalent has
been higher than 9 percentage points for a month, more than
double the level a year ago. In Portugal and Ireland, the spread
to bunds has more than quadrupled over the past 12 months.  Strategists’ average prediction for an 11 percent gain in
European equities last year proved too high. The Euro Stoxx 50
Index of the biggest euro-area companies fell 5.8 percent in
2010. The Stoxx 600, which includes non-euro nations such as the
U.K., advanced 8.6 percent after slumping in May.  Growth in Europe lags behind the U.S. The euro-area economy
will expand 1.7 percent in 2011, according to 19 economists’
forecasts compiled by Bloomberg. The U.S. will grow 2.9 percent
this year, the fastest since 2005, according to the median
estimate in a Bloomberg survey of 89 economists. The Stoxx 600
is trailing the 96 percent gain in the S&P 500 since March 2009
by 18 percentage points.  Whatever It Takes  Bears are too concerned about the most-indebted European
nations and don’t appreciate the economy’s strength or the
political will to preserve the euro, strategists say. German
Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy
have said they’ll do whatever it takes to protect the 17-nation
currency.  “The euro was supposed to be dead as a monetary union at
the end of last year,”  Societe Generale (GLE) ’s Bokobza said. “What
an error that was. Not only is the euro going to be alive as a
currency, but there has been a very strong reinforcement from
the government of the  euro zone .”  Europe’s currency has strengthened 8.2 percent versus the
dollar this year. The euro appreciated 3.5 percent through
March, the most since the last three months of 2008 and the best
first-quarter performance since the region’s single currency
began in 1999, according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Index
data.  ECB Rates  Economic growth and inflation accelerated enough to spur
the  European Central Bank  to raise its key rate by 25 basis
points to 1.25 percent on April 7.  While Portuguese and Irish bond yields climbed in the past
month, the yield premium on 10-year Spanish bonds relative to
their German counterparts narrowed by about 100 basis points, or
1 percentage point, from a euro-era record in November. Italian
10-year bonds yielded 130 basis points more than bunds on April
6, down from 199 on Nov. 30.  Greece, Ireland and Portugal account for 4.4 percent of the
EU’s gross domestic product, according to data compiled by
Eurostat. That’s about the same contribution of Georgia and
Tennessee to the  U.S. economy , the most recent Bureau of
Economic Analysis data shows.  Exports from Europe jumped 3.6 percent in January,
according to a March 18 report from the EU’s statistics office
in Luxembourg. Exports were equivalent to 39 percent of
 Germany ’s gross domestic product last year and 30 percent for
the 27-nation region, the office said.  Manufacturing Growth  Growth in the region’s services and manufacturing
industries remains at the second-highest level since July 2007,
according to a Markit Economics composite index based on a
survey of purchasing managers in the euro region from March 24.  Germany’s economy, the region’s biggest, will grow 2.5
percent in 2011 after last year’s record 3.6 percent expansion,
the Bundesbank forecasts. Factory orders surged almost five
times as much as economists estimated in February and industrial
production rose three times more than projected, reports from
the Economy Ministry in Berlin showed last week.  Factory gauges in peripheral European countries suggest
their economies are recovering faster than expected as exports
climb, according to  Edmund Shing , an equity strategist at
 Barclays Plc (BARC)  in London. March measures of production in Spain
and Italy were at 51.6 and 56.2, respectively, according to
Markit Economics data. Readings above 50 indicate expansion.  ‘Consistently Very Strong’  “Manufacturing data has been consistently very strong
across Europe and the momentum has continued for longer than
people might have thought,” Shing said in a phone interview.  Investors may benefit as executives cut debt, according to
Mislav Matejka,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ’s London-based head of
equity strategy for Europe. Companies in the Stoxx 600 reduced
their obligations to the lowest level since 2003 at the end of
last year, Bloomberg data show.  “This is only the second year out of maybe three, four or
five years of an economic upswing which is looking more
sustainable and more broad,” Matejka said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  