-- 
Five Stocks Top the Rest in My Elite 30-30 Club: John Dorfman

-- B y   J o h n   D o r f m a n
-- 
2011-04-10T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/five-stocks-top-the-rest-in-elite-30-30-club-commentary-by-john-dorfman.html
     April 11 (Bloomberg) - What do  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  and baseball
Hall-of-Fame star  Willie Mays  have in common?  They are both members of an elite group known as the 30-30
Club. In baseball, the club is for  ballplayers  who belt 30 home
runs and steal 30 bases in the same season.  This combination of strength and speed is rare. In more
than a century of major league baseball, only a few dozen
players have achieved it. Bobby Bonds and his son  Barry Bonds 
each did it five times. Mays managed to do it twice.  My 30-30 club is for businesses. To make the cut, a company
needs a rare combination of profitability and growth. It must
achieve a 30 percent return on stockholders’ equity in its
latest fiscal year, and show 30 percent average annual earnings
growth over the past five years. (I calculate earnings growth as
a simple average of percentage changes in the past 5 years.)
Only U.S. companies with a market value of $2 billion or more
are eligible.  Twenty-two companies made the roster this year compared
with 18 in 2010. The two best known members are Apple and Coca-
Cola Co. Apple, the Cupertino, California, colossus, has gone
from strength to strength, as consumers clamor for its iPad,
iPhone and iPod, among other products.  Would I buy Apple shares today? Lord, forgive me, I would
not. Stocks advance by exceeding expectations. Apple, selling
for almost six times book value (corporate net worth) and four
times revenue, embodies high expectations, which are difficult
to exceed.  Apple, Coca-Cola  Yes, Apple’s stock price advanced 147 percent in 2009 and
another 53 percent in 2010. I simply don’t believe it will have
such dramatic gains this year or next.  Coca-Cola is traditionally a standard holding for growth
investors. In the 10 years through March, its stock has gained
47 percent in price. That’s better than the 14 percent price
gain for the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index, but less than the
Atlanta-based company’s fans no doubt expect.  I respect Coca-Cola as a company. Yet at five times book
value and four times sales, it has valuations similar to
Apple’s, and it lacks Apple’s gaudy growth.  While I can’t get excited about the marquee names in this
year’s 30-30 club, I do like five lesser-known stocks in the
group.  Alliance Resource Partners LP (ARLP)  is a coal producer based in
Tulsa, Oklahoma. It’s been profitable every year since at least
1997, which is as far back as my Bloomberg database goes.  Alliance stock sells for 12 times earnings, which is less
than the multiple for most coal companies. Renewed concerns
about nuclear power and offshore oil drilling make coal stocks
timely. One drawback: Debt is higher than I like, at 159 percent
of equity.  More I Like  You’ll find a stronger balance sheet at  NewMarket Corp. (NEU)  The
Richmond, Virginia, company makes chemicals that go into fuels
and lubricants. I like NewMarket at 13 times earnings, with debt
about 45 percent of equity.  Also appealing is  Credit Acceptance Corp. (CACC) , which provides
financing for automobile dealers. Indirectly, it also provides
financing to car buyers with shaky credit.  The Southfield, Michigan-based lender has an 11-year streak
of profits. Its diluted earnings grew right through the
recession of 2007 to 2009, and hit a record of $5.67 a share in
2010. This year analysts project another record, $6.71.
Considering all that, the stock price of about $77, or 14 times
earnings, looks reasonable.  No Debt  I continue to like Dallas-based  Texas Instruments Inc. (TXN) , a
semiconductor maker I recommended in January. It is debt free,
and had a return on equity last year of 32 percent.  Finally, I recommend  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc. (CLF) , an
international iron ore producer based in Cleveland. In addition
to benefiting from an economic recovery in the U.S., I figure
Cliffs will continue to export heavily to Asia, especially
China. In 2010 it sold $1.3 billion of its commodities to China
and $311 million to Japan, which faces extensive rebuilding
needs.  Now, for a word of follow-up. A year ago, I rated three of
the 30-30 club members “especially attractive.” Here’s an
update on them.  New York-based  Aeropostale Inc. (ARO) , a clothing retailer
targeting young people, has fallen 16 percent since I
recommended it 12 months ago. I still consider it a bargain, now
selling at 10 times earnings and less than one times revenue.  Still Looks Good  Diamond Offshore Drilling Inc. (DO) , based in Houston, saw
earnings fall as oil from the Deepwater Horizon spill fouled the
Gulf of Mexico. Its share price has fallen 13 percent. At 12
times earnings, it still looks good to me.  Shares in Milwaukee-based  Joy Global Inc. (JOYG) , a maker of
mining equipment, have risen 63 percent in the past year. Today
the stock fetches 21 times earnings and seven times book value
(corporate net worth per share). I think it is fully valued, and
wouldn’t chase it.  Disclosure note: I own shares in Cliffs Natural Resources
personally and for clients. I have no long or short positions in
the other stocks discussed in this week’s column.  Here are this year’s members in my 30-30 club, listed
alphabetically. Those marked with an asterisk were also in the
club last year.  Alliance Resource Partners LP  Altera Corp. (ALTR)   Apple Inc.*  Cliffs Natural Resources Inc.  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)   Compass Minerals International Inc. (CMP) *  Credit Acceptance Corp.  Deere & Co. (DE)   DST Systems Inc. (DST)   Eaton Vance Corp. (EV) *  Express Scripts Inc. (ESRX)   FMC Technologies Inc. (FTI) *  Gartner Inc. (IT)   ITT Educational Services Inc. (ESI)   Limited Brands Inc.  NewMarket Corp.  Nordson Corp. (NDSN)   Priceline.com Inc. (PCLN) *  Rockwell Automation Inc. (ROK)   Tempur-Pedic International Inc. (TPX) *  Texas Instruments Inc.  Walter Energy Inc. (WLT)   ( John Dorfman , chairman of Thunderstorm Capital in Boston,
is a columnist for Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own. His firm or clients may own or trade securities
discussed in this column.)  To contact the writer of this column:
John Dorfman at 
 jdorfman@thunderstormcapital.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  