-- 
Germany Reignites Debt Concerns With Greek Warning as Portugal Seeks Aid

-- B y   J a m e s   G .   N e u g e r   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 
2011-04-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/germany-warns-on-greek-debt-defying-efforts-to-snuff-out-crisis.html
Germany  warned that deficit-scarred
Greece might need more financial relief, reviving European debt
concerns just as Portugal seeks an 80 billion-euro ($116 billion)
aid package.  German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said it is
unclear whether Greece, the root of the year-old debt crisis,
will need another cut in its bailout rate or a further extension
of repayment terms to return to fiscal health.  “We, also the Greek government and the Greek colleague,
can’t say for good today whether that’s enough,” Schaeuble told
reporters after an April 9 meeting of European finance officials
in Godollo, Hungary. “Whether that is enough and how this
continues will have to be monitored closely.”  Germany’s doubts conflicted with official assertions that
 Greece  is on the right track, defying efforts to put an end to
the crisis that threatened the survival of the euro, postwar
Europe’s signature economic achievement. Last week’s increase in
European Central Bank interest rates for the first time in
almost three years throws a further cloud over weaker economies.  Bond investors are charging Greece 938 basis points more
than Germany to borrow for 10 years. The spread for Ireland, the
second country to obtain aid, is 577 basis points. Portugal,
aiming for a relief plan by mid-May, pays an extra 518 basis
points.  Officials including ECB President  Jean-Claude Trichet 
dismissed suggestions that Greece might not be able to repay its
debt, saying budget cuts, tax increases and 50 billion euros in
asset sales will bandage its economy.  ‘Solid Plan’  “We do exclude restructuring,” European Union Economic
and Monetary Commissioner Olli Rehn said. “We have a solid plan.
It is based on a very careful analysis of debt sustainability.”  The Greek government predicts that the clampdown on
spending will shrink the economy by 3 percent in 2011, the third
straight contraction. EU forecasts show debt peaking at 159.4
percent of gross domestic product in 2012, the year Greece is
supposed to return to the markets for financing.  Greece might need more time to pay back debts to
bondholders, in a “rescheduling” that would not be classified
as a default, Organization for Economic Cooperation and
Development Secretary-General Angel Gurria said.  “The adjustment program of a country like Greece is a very
painful program, and if a rescheduling of the payments is
something which is required in order to make those difficult
policies work, then that is what should be done,” Gurria told
Bloomberg Television.  Lower Greek Rates  Euro-area ministers confirmed plans to loosen Greece’s
economic noose, lengthening the maturities on its 110 billion-
euro aid package to 7 1/2 years from 3 years and cutting the
average lending rate by 1 percentage point to around 3.5 percent.  “For Greece to put its fiscal problems behind it, and to
create a positive environment for growth, it still needs to do a
lot of hard work,” David Mackie, chief European economist at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  London , said in a research note.  Ireland has made less progress in winning a cut in the 5.8
percent rate on its 67.5 billion euros in loans, facing pressure
from Germany and  France  to first lift its 12.5 percent corporate
 tax rate , about half the EU average.  “There’s no question of any concession on the corporate
tax rate being made by Ireland,” Irish Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  said. “We’ll explore alternatives.”  Portuguese Politics  Portugal’s aid negotiations, set to start tomorrow, collide
with a campaign for early elections that were triggered after
the opposition on March 23 balked at proposals for additional
savings of 4.5 percent of GDP over three years.  “Discussing deeply unpopular measures ahead of elections
will not be easy,”  Gilles Moec , a London-based economist at
Deutsche Bank AG, said in a research note. “Some volatile
newsflow is likely to emerge in the next few days from Lisbon.”  In addition to budget cuts and the sale of state assets,
Portugal will be pressed to lessen regulations that have helped
keep its annual economic growth rate below 1 percent for the
past decade, one of  Europe ’s worst records.  The EU set a mid-May deadline to arrange a three-year
lending program. Rehn called the 80-billion-euro aid estimate
“very, very preliminary.”  As with the first two bailouts, two-thirds of the loans
would come from the EU and one-third from the  International
Monetary Fund . The Washington-based global lender is “prepared
to move expeditiously,” Managing Director Dominique Strauss- Kahn said on April 8.  The Bill  “I never write a check before I see the bill,” French
Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde  said. “Work has to be done
quickly.”  Politics in the bill-paying countries will also play a role,
with German Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s popularity suffering and
polls showing a surge in support for a euro-skeptic party in
 Finland ’s April 17 elections.  Finnish Finance Minister Jyrki Katainen, a candidate for
prime minister, said  Portugal  must enact deficit cuts that go
beyond the measures rejected last month in parliament.  “The package must be really strict because otherwise it
doesn’t make any sense,” Katainen said in Godollo. “The
package must be harder and more comprehensive than the one the
parliament voted against.”  Finance chiefs sent a more positive message on  Spain ,
praising its austerity measures and cleanup of savings bank debt.
In a sign of confidence in Spain’s financial management, Spain’s
bond spread has been compressed to 178 basis points from 283
basis points on Nov. 30.  “I do not see any risk of contagion,” Spanish Finance
Minister Elena Salgado said. “We are totally out of this.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
James G. Neuger in Godollo,  Hungary , at 
 jneuger@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Godollo, Hungary, at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  