-- 
Corporate Profits Rising to Record Before Quake Curbs Supplies

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 
2011-04-10T22:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/global-corporate-profits-rising-to-record-before-japan-quake-curbs-supply.html
Corporate profits probably rose to
a record last quarter, with demand for items from  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  equipment to  Daimler AG (DAI)  cars holding up so far in the face
of supply disruptions from the earthquake in Japan. The
estimates six months out may prove too rosy, investors said.  Earnings for Standard & Poor’s 500 Index companies probably
gained 12 percent in the three months ended March 31, from a
year earlier, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg. Profits of Stoxx  Europe  600 Index companies likely
increased 21 percent.  Companies around the world such as Caterpillar, Daimler and
DuPont Co. slashed operating costs during the recession and
haven’t increased them as fast as sales rebounded. Except for
Japan, where the March 11 disaster curbed production for
companies including  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Sony Corp. (6758) , first-
quarter earnings improved on the back of a global economic
recovery.  “The rest of the world is in fairly good shape and
actually is booming,” said Chad Deakins, an Atlanta-based
manager of an international equity fund for Ridgeworth Capital
Management, which oversees $45 billion. “I think we have three
to six months of relatively good numbers and then we might see
some moderation.”  For the second quarter, most analysts have left unchanged
their earnings estimates, calling for another 12 percent
increase at S&P companies, the data show. For the year, they
predict a gain of 17 percent.  Component ‘Crunch’  That may be too much, investors said. Companies that
outsource hardware assembly including  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , Motorola
Mobility Holdings Inc. and  Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  are going to be in a
“crunch” because of the quake, said  Peter Sorrentino , senior
portfolio manager at Huntington Asset Advisors in Cincinnati.  “It will definitely mean higher component costs,” he
said. And retailers such as Best Buy Co. may see shortfalls as
crimped supply makes it more difficult to deliver to consumers
starting in the third quarter, he said.  The magnitude-9 earthquake that triggered a tsunami and
left more than 27,000 people presumed dead or missing pushed
Japan to the brink of nuclear disaster, forced plants to close
and sent the yen to a post-World War II high versus the dollar.  Canon Inc. (7751) , the world’s largest camera maker, may see
earnings drop 27 percent this year because of damaged factories
and choked component supply, said Barclays Plc analyst Masahiro Nakanomyo in Tokyo. Sony may stagger the global release of its
new PlayStation Portable game machine, and  Hitachi Ltd. (6501) , Japan’s
second-largest builder of nuclear reactors, said it may take
more than six months to calculate its damages.  ‘Bleak’ Guidance  Operating profit, or sales minus the cost of goods sold and
administrative expenses, at seven Japanese consumer electronics
makers including Sony,  Pioneer Corp. (6773) , Sharp Corp. and Funai
Electric Co. may decline 31 percent in the six months to Sept.
30,  Barclays analyst  Yuji Fujimori  wrote in an April 7 report.  “There are many causes for concern, with a cooling in
consumer spending in Japan mentioned by Sharp and Panasonic and
earthquake damage to production facilities at Sony, and as such
the picture looks likely to be particularly difficult in” the
first half of the current fiscal year, said Shiro Mikoshiba, an
analyst at Nomura Holdings Inc. Guidance from the companies for
the year “could well be bleak, factoring in maximum risks.”  Sony, Japan’s biggest exporter of consumer electronics, is
expected to report a loss for its fiscal quarter ended in March
of 55 cents a share, the average of four analysts’ estimates.
That compares with a loss of 62 cents a year earlier. As of
April 6, Sony had said two of its plants in Japan were still
closed including one that makes Blu-ray discs and magnetic tape
and another that produces lithium-ion batteries.  Technology, Car Companies  The effects to companies outside of Japan will be limited
mostly to the technology and automobile industries and won’t
show up in earnings statements until the second quarter, said
 Keith Wirtz , who helps manage $18 billion as chief investment
officer for Fifth Third Asset Management in Cincinnati.  Grammer AG (GMM) , the German supplier of interiors for Daimler
and Bayerische Motoren Werke AG, said order cancellations are
possible. Chertsey, England-based  Compass Group Plc (CPG) , the world’s
largest catering company, said some closures of operations in
Japan may reduce first-half profit. European ports including
Rotterdam and Hamburg have said volumes will begin to be
affected this month as dockside stockpiles are depleted.  In the U.S., software makers  Oracle Corp. (ORCL)  and  Adobe Systems
Inc. (ADBE)  may also lose sales because of Japan, analysts have said.  ‘Better Than Expected’  Alcoa Inc. (AA) , the biggest U.S. aluminum producer, is
scheduled to release first-quarter earnings after the market
close today, the first member of the Dow Jones Industrial
Average to report. An average 15 percent aluminum price increase
in the quarter likely spurred the New York-based company’s
profit to 27 cents a share from 10 cents a year earlier
excluding certain costs, according to analysts’ estimates.  Increased spending in the U.S. and Europe and rising wealth
in  China  and Brazil probably helped European automakers, said
Adam Hull, an analyst at WestLB in  London . Germany’s  Volkswagen
AG (VOW) , BMW and Daimler are targeting record earnings in 2011 as the
global economic recovery boosts demand for luxury cars, he said.  “It’s pretty good top line growth for the first quarter
and a bit better than expected,” Hull said. “It’s going pretty
well, but with some question marks going into the second
quarter.”  Question Marks  Siemens AG (SIE) , Europe’s biggest industrial company, raised
some of those questions. Chief Financial Officer  Joe Kaeser  said
on an April 5 call with analysts that the Munich-based company
expects to report a “significant” gain in sales for its fiscal
second quarter ended March 31 while anticipating “easing” of
growth in the second half of the year.  “I’d be surprised if anyone claimed it was an easy
operating environment with the events in Japan and Middle
East,” said  Frances Hudson , who helps oversee about $242
billion as a global asset strategist at Standard Life
Investments in Edinburgh. “I’d be looking for companies that
are able to give good outlook statements and for companies that
are doing sensible things with their cash.”  In the U.S., S&P earnings will be helped by crude oil
prices, which benefited  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , the largest-weighted
company in the index, and  Chevron Corp. (CVX) , the third-biggest, said
Jim Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital
Management in Minneapolis. Crude jumped 17 percent to $106.72 a
barrel in the first quarter on the  New York  Mercantile Exchange
amid political unrest in oil-exporting nations in the Middle
East and northern Africa.  Oil, Copper, Steel  Exxon, based in Irving Texas, will likely post earnings per
share of $1.96 excluding some items, up from $1.37 a year
earlier, according to 16 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. San
Ramon, California-based Chevron’s profit will jump to $2.89,
from about $2.36.  Rising prices for commodities including oil, copper and
steel won’t squeeze U.S. profit margins too much as long as wage
inflation is in check, Paulsen said.  “Until you get into wages, I don’t think you get serious
margin compression,” Paulsen said.  Profit growth, excluding financial companies, has been
slowing after reaching a 12-year high of 40 percent in the
second quarter last year. That was to be expected because year-
over-year comparisons are now based on earnings that had
recovered in 2010, said Gina Martin Adams, an equity analyst
with Wells Fargo Securities LLC in New York.  An S&P earnings growth forecast, less financials, at 12.3
percent for the first quarter is above the average of 9.5
percent since Bloomberg began keeping records in 1998.  ‘Steady Growth’  “We’re still in steady growth mode as would be consistent
with the early part of an economic cycle,” Martin Adams said.
“It’s really more of a question of how much can companies
sustain margin amid all this commodity pressure.”  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  expects to pay $400 million more for
fuel in the first quarter compared with a year earlier, and
President Ed Bastian forecast a $250 million to $400 million
effect from the Japan disaster in the next few months.  Nine of the largest U.S. air carriers led by Chicago-based
 United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and Atlanta-based Delta may
have a combined first-quarter loss of $1.1 billion excluding
one-time items, said  Michael Derchin , an analyst at CRT Capital
Group LLC in Stamford, Connecticut.  The S&P 500 rose 5.4 percent in the three months ended in
March. The Stoxx Europe 600 advanced less than 1 percent.  Oracle, Adobe  Earthquake disruptions may put at risk $157 million of
sales at Oracle, the largest maker of database software, for the
quarter ending in May, said Pat Walravens, an analyst with
 JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Japan represented 5 percent of Redwood
City, California-based Oracle’s sales last fiscal year, he said.  Adobe, the largest maker of graphic-design software, pared
its sales forecast for the quarter ending in May by $50 million
because of Japan. Profit at the San Jose, California-based
company is projected to rise to 51 cents a share for the period,
estimates show, up from 31 cents.  The  Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
said last week that an economic recovery among the world’s most
advanced economies is strengthening and called faster inflation
a threat. Instability in the Middle East, possible increases in
oil prices and Europe’s sovereign-debt crisis also may challenge
economic prospects, the Paris-based organization said.  DuPont, Caterpillar  DuPont and  Dow Chemical Co. (DOW)  are benefiting from rising crop
prices as farmers buy pesticides and biotechnology seeds, said
 Hassan Ahmed , a New York-based analyst at Alembic Global
Advisors. The chemical makers may show expanding profit margins
as their product prices rise faster than input costs, he said.  “I’m expecting a pretty good quarter across the board,”
Ahmed said.  DuPont’s first-quarter profit may have risen to $1.37 a
share, from $1.24, analyst estimates show. Dow Chemical’s net
income likely jumped to 66 cents from 41 cents.  Caterpillar, the world’s largest construction-equipment
maker, may report an increase in net income to $1.29 a share,
the average of eight estimates, from 36 cents a year earlier.
Revenue at the Peoria, Illinois-based company likely rose about
38 percent to $11.3 billion.  Rising sales will push more companies to pursue capacity
expansions and acquisitions, Wirtz of Fifth Third said.  Texas
Instruments Inc. (TXN) ’s offer last week to pay $6.5 billion for
 National Semiconductor Corp. (NSM) , and Caterpillar’s $8.6 billion
pending purchase of mining-equipment maker  Bucyrus International
Inc. (BUCY)  are only a start, he said.  “We going to see a lot of deals announced this year and
next year just because companies are so flush on the balance
sheet and they need to deploy that excess cash,” Wirtz said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thomas Black in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kevin Miller at 
 kmiller@bloomberg.net  