-- 
Government Shutdown Dance Was Just a Warmup: Jonathan Alter

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   A l t e r
-- 
2011-04-10T23:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/government-shutdown-dance-was-just-a-warmup-commentary-by-jonathan-alter.html
The root canal Americans
experienced over the averted government shutdown may seem
painless compared with the operation that’s coming: debate over
raising the debt ceiling followed by House Budget Committee
Chairman Paul Ryan’s plan to overhaul the government.  The political fates of President  Barack Obama  and most of
Congress depend on the outcome. While the stakes for the 2011
budget skirmish has been over a few billion dollars, the next
fight -- over the debt ceiling -- is about several hundred
billion. Then, Ryan’s proposed rewrite of the nation’s social
contract will be about several trillion dollars.  So all the eye-gouging and hair-pulling over spending for
the current fiscal year may be just a warm-up for what’s to come.
Or it may move Congress to its senses. Then raising the debt
ceiling can once again be a routine technical vote (as it has
been for generations) and tackling entitlements and the  tax code 
can move to the center of a spirited but rational debate.  For now, it isn’t hard apportioning blame for the month’s
unpleasantness. Five years ago, when the shoe was on the other
foot -- when Democrats were determined to pursue an ideological
agenda and cut off funding for the war in  Iraq  -- they didn’t
threaten to shut down the government in order to get their way.  Today’s Republicans are so determined to defund Planned
Parenthood, gut the  Clean Air Act  and go to the mat on their
other “riders” (amendments that have little budgetary impact)
that the usual incentive for politicians to cut a deal on budget
numbers has become clouded by ideology.  Wishful Thinking  The only remedy is to fix blame squarely and publicly where
it belongs. If the Tea Party is seen as responsible for hundreds
of thousands of delayed paychecks, weakened local economies and
tourists not getting to see the pandas at the National Zoo, then
the “Shut It Down!” crowd will have less leverage next month
when Congress has to raise the debt ceiling.  This may be wishful thinking on the part of Democrats. They
remember the 1995-96 government shutdown as the episode that
secured President  Bill Clinton ’s reelection when he outfoxed
Republican House Speaker  Newt Gingrich . But blame for that
crisis could have easily gone the other way.  During the first of two shutdowns (one for five days in
November of 1995 and a second for three weeks around Christmas),
Clinton’s poll numbers dropped sharply. It was only after
Gingrich earned “Cry Baby” headlines around the country for
complaining about having to deplane from the back of Air Force
One that the president emerged a winner.  ‘Severe Hardships’  As the 26-day Clinton era furloughs suggest, the political
consequences of these events are greater than the economic ones.
Contrary to claims by the White House, a short shutdown wouldn’t
short-circuit the recovery. But according to almost every
economist, banker and government official, failure to raise the
$14.3 trillion debt ceiling would be disastrous.  Treasury Secretary  Tim Geithner  said in a letter to
congressional leaders that Congress must act before May 16 or
bring “severe hardships” to the  U.S. economy . This is
brinksmanship; in truth, the Treasury Department has the power
to put off the reckoning for a few weeks if necessary. But by
early summer, the political posturing will be like playing with
dynamite.  “Default by the  United States  is unthinkable,” Geithner
wrote to congressional leaders on April 4.  Freshman Senator  Marco Rubio  of  Florida , a likely 2012
vice-presidential nominee for any Republican candidate, is
thinking it. He has come out against raising the ceiling. Rubio
doesn’t mention what would then be required to avoid default:
cutting spending by $738 billion in six months. Not even the
most fire-breathing Tea Partier has suggested how to do that.  Ryan’s Plan  Cutting that kind of money over a longer time frame isn’t
only doable, it’s essential. That’s where the plan unveiled last
week by  Paul Ryan  comes in. He deserves points for courage and
leadership, but not for seriousness.  Ryan is still so much in thrall to the tax-cutting religion
of his party that he reduces the top marginal  tax rate  to 25
percent, thereby undermining the deficit reduction that was
supposed to be his “cause.” Unless you believe in supply-side
economics, Ryan’s plan doesn’t add up.  The recommendations of the Simpson-Bowles commission --
also denounced by the Democratic left -- make a much better
starting point for dramatic reductions in the deficit. Even on
entitlement reform, Ryan falls far short. Politically, his plan
to end the wildly popular Medicare program is a dagger pointed
at the heart of the  Republican Party . Substantively, his voucher
plan would do little to rein in costs, while shifting more tax
money from the struggling middle class to the affluent elderly.  I hear from inside the White House that after the shutdown
and debt ceiling debates have ended, Obama will finally weigh in
with his own long-term deficit reduction ideas, and not wait for
the election. A few common sense if politically dicey remedies
(e.g. raising the  retirement age  for non-manual laborers) are
what the doctor ordered. No major surgery required.  ( Jonathan Alter  is a national correspondent for  Newsweek 
and author of “The Promise: President Obama, Year One.” The
opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jonathan Alter at  alterjonathan@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this column:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  