-- 
Li's Trust May Raise $1.7 Billion in First Yuan IPO Outside Mainland China

-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 
2011-04-10T16:00:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/li-ka-shing-s-reit-seeks-1-7-billion-in-first-yuan-offering-outside-china.html
Billionaire Li Ka-shing’s property
trust may raise as much as 11.2 billion yuan ($1.7 billion) in
the first Chinese currency-denominated initial public offering
outside the mainland.  Hui Xian Real Estate Investment Trust is offering 2 billion
units in a price range of 5.24 yuan to 5.58 yuan in  Hong Kong ,
according to a statement released yesterday. The forecast yield
to investors is 4 percent to 4.26 percent annualized for the
period from April 29 to June 30. The REIT may start trading 
April 29.  “A Li Ka-shing company will surely give confidence to
investors as this is likely to be a dominant player in the
market,” said Tony Tong, head of market strategy at  China 
Everbright Securities (HK) Ltd.  The sale may pave the way for other developers to follow
with similar offerings as Hong Kong Exchanges & Clearing Ltd.
seeks to widen its product range to compete in the region. Hui
Xian offers investors in Hong Kong a way to bet on appreciation
of the Chinese currency while getting higher yields than on the
city’s yuan-denominated deposits, which reached a record $52
billion in February.  “We’re confident that we can successfully complete the
listing of the first yuan IPO,” Edmond Ip, Hui Xian Asset
Management Ltd.’s non-executive director, said yesterday at a
press briefing.  Glencore to Prada  Companies from Baar, Switzerland-based Glencore
International AG to Prada SpA of Milan plan share sales in Hong
Kong this quarter, providing impetus to the exchange’s push to
become a global IPO hub. The sales may push the value of offers
to more than $20 billion, which would be a record for a second
quarter, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  The IPO is backed by Oriental Plaza properties in central
Beijing, according to yesterday’s statement. Oriental Plaza,
covering 100,000 square meters (1.1 million square feet), is
situated along Beijing’s Changan Avenue. It consists of eight
premium office towers, a shopping mall, a Grand Hyatt Hotel and
serviced apartments, according to Oriental Plaza’s  website .  Cheung Kong  (Holdings) Ltd., the Hong Kong developer
controlled by Li, owns 33.4 percent of Oriental Plaza, while
affiliate  Hutchison Whampoa Ltd. (13)  holds 18 percent, according to
the companies’ 2009 annual report.  Li, 82, is Hong Kong’s richest man and the 11th-wealthiest
in the world, with a fortune of $26 billion, according to Forbes
magazine last month. He opened a plastic-flower factory after
World War II, began investing in Hong Kong real estate in 1967
after riots tied to China’s Cultural Revolution depressed prices
and built Cheung Kong into a company with a market value of
$38.8 billion as of April 8.  “Aggressively-priced”  His empire now spans ports, real estate, hotels, retailing,
infrastructure, energy and telecommunications. His high-speed
mobile-phone business posted its first profit in 2010 after
seven years of losses, Li said on March 30.  Initial share sales linked to Li, who is nicknamed
“Superman” by the Hong Kong media for his investing prowess,
have proved popular with investors. “However, these companies
are usually quite aggressively-priced, which could be a minus
point," Everbright’s Tong said.  Li’s Internet unit, Tom.com Ltd., held an IPO in 2000 that
was 670 times oversubscribed. The stock rose more than fivefold
on its March 1 debut, nine days before the Nasdaq Composite
index peaked, marking the end of the dotcom bubble. The company,
renamed  Tom Group Ltd. (2383) , is currently valued at HK$3.5 billion
($450 million), 31 percent less than at the IPO.  CK Life Sciences  In 2002, an initial share sale for Li’s CK Life Sciences
International (Holdings) Inc, a biotechnology company, was 121
times oversubscribed. The stock, priced at HK$2, traded at 54
Hong Kong cents on April 8.  ‘‘The success of a REIT is largely dependent on the
performance of its asset management,” Hui Xian Asset Chairman
Kam Hing-lam said yesterday, adding that the trust’s assets will
be managed by Cheung Kong, ARA Asset Management Ltd. and Citic
Securities International Co. “This is an appropriate and ideal
combination.”  BOC International Holdings Ltd., Citic Securities and  HSBC
Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are managing the sale, which begins today and runs
until April 19.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andreea Papuc in Hong Kong at 
 apapuc1@bloomberg.net  