-- 
Libya Rebels Struggle to Repel Qaddafi's Ajdabiya Forces

-- B y   P e t e r   S .   G r e e n   a n d   J u s t i n   B l u m
-- 
2011-04-10T10:13:10Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/libya-rebels-struggle-to-repel-qaddafi-s-ajdabiya-forces-before-zuma-talks.html
Libyan rebels struggled to repel
 Muammar Qaddafi ’s forces from the eastern city of Ajdabiya as
NATO and other international organizations stepped up efforts to
bring an end to the military impasse.  An African delegation led by South African President  Jacob Zuma  is due to arrive today in Libya for talks with Qaddafi in
Tripoli, the capital, and with opposition leaders in Benghazi,
the country’s second-largest city. United Nations Secretary-
General Ban Ki Moon will host a meeting of international
organizations in Cairo on April 14 aimed at coordinating a
response to the conflict.  “We have a stalemate,”  James Baker , a former secretary of
state and Treasury secretary to Republican presidents, said in
comments scheduled to air on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS”
program today. “If you end up with a stalemate, then you ask
yourself, OK, we’ve protected the citizens or the civilians in
the eastern part of  Libya . Are we better off with two states
there or not? I can’t answer that question. I don’t know.”  The rebels’ six-week drive to topple Qaddafi’s 42-year rule
has stalled as his forces have outgunned the opposition and
protected their tanks, armored vehicles and other military
hardware from NATO jets by moving them into cities. Allied
forces have a UN mandate to enforce a no-fly zone over Libya in
order to protect civilians.  Changing Tactics  The North Atlantic Treaty Organization has grappled with
changing tactics by the regime, whose forces have taken to
driving civilian vehicles, Rear Admiral Russell Harding, deputy
commander of the mission, said April 8. They have also faced the
difficulty of distinguishing between pro- and anti-Qaddafi
troops and civilians, he said, citing running battles on the
road between Ajdabiya and the oil town of Brega.  The Libyan government said today it shot down two attack
helicopters being used by rebel forces over Brega, the
 Associated Press  reported, citing Deputy Foreign Minister Khaled
Amin. Pro-Qaddafi forces also launched a surprise attack on
rebels in Ajdabiya, shelling the town and deploying soldiers on
the streets, the British Broadcasting Corp. said. Eight rebels
were killed in the violence, the  BBC  reported, citing
unidentified doctors in the city.  The rebels have been struggling to move west from their
stronghold of Benghazi and take and hold strategic towns
including Ajdabiya, Brega and Ras Lanuf, Libya’s main oil
terminal. In Misrata, the main rebel-held town in western Libya,
NATO aircraft destroyed tanks and armored vehicles belonging to
Qaddafi’s forces, Lieutenant General Charlie Bouchard, commander
of the contingent, said yesterday in Brussels.  Oil Production  Oil output from Libya has dropped by about 1.3 million
barrels a day to a “trickle,” the Paris-based  International
Energy Agency  said last month. Oil production would still be
less than a third of its pre-conflict level even if the rebels
took control of the country’s oil fields, Nomura Holdings Inc.
said in a report.  Crude oil climbed above $112 in New York for the first time
in 30 months on April 8. Oil for May delivery rose $2.49 to
$112.79 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the
highest settlement since Sept. 22, 2008. Futures advanced 4.5
percent last week and are 32 percent higher than a year ago.  Asked by Zakaria how to get out of a stalemate if western
Libya stays under the control of Muammar Qaddafi and the east
stays under rebel control, Baker, 80, said: “I’m not sure you
will.”  Baker also said  Saudi Arabia  believes the U.S. was “too
quick to pull the plug” on former Egyptian President  Hosni Mubarak . Mubarak’s ouster followed the fall of  Tunisia ’s Zine El Abidine Ben Ali in the start of unrest in a region that holds
more than 60 percent of the world’s known oil reserves.  Regional Unrest  Almost four months after a 26-year-old vegetable seller set
himself alight in despair over Tunisia’s social, political and
economic conditions, protesters continue to take to the streets
to demand political changes.  Scores of people were killed or wounded over the weekend in
unrest in Yemen, Syria and  Egypt . Yemeni security forces fired
on demonstrators in three cities yesterday, leaving many
wounded, while Syrian contingents shot at a funeral for
protesters killed in an earlier demonstration.  Egyptian military leaders blamed “outlaws” trying to
“thwart the revolution” for killing at least one person when
soldiers broke up a protest in central Cairo, which also left 71
injured.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter S. Green in  New York  at 
 psgreen@bloomberg.net ;
 Justin Blum  in  Washington  at 
 jblum4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net . 