-- 
Libya’s ‘Must-Visit’ Economy Snares BP, U.K. Investors in War

-- B y   S i m o n   C l a r k
-- 
2011-04-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/libya-s-must-visit-economy-snares-bp-u-k-investors-in-war.html
Renaissance Group (RNCG)  fund manager
Justin Farr-Jones flew to Tripoli last May with a British
investment delegation that promised to give “unique access” to
Libya’s financial leadership.  The economy was opening up after Prime Ministers  Tony Blair 
and  Gordon Brown  had both met Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi ,
whose son Saif completed a doctorate at the  London School  of
Economics. Abdel Basset Al-Megrahi, the only person convicted of
the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103, was freed in 2009.  “It was actually a must-visit economy,” said London-based
Farr-Jones, whose firm focuses on emerging markets. “I really
did feel that Libya was on the brink of reform.”  A year later, all bets are off after fighting erupted in
Libya. London-based oil company  BP Plc (BP/)  evacuated workers.
 U.K. Trade & Investment , a government export organization that
last year said Libya was “potentially the fourth-most
attractive overseas market,” closed its office in Tripoli along
with the U.K. Embassy. The outcome of the conflict matters to
British companies.  “There can be no real stability in Libya until Qaddafi
goes,” said Oliver Miles, a former U.K. ambassador to Libya and
deputy chairman of the  Libyan British Business Council . “The
creation of a democratic system in Libya would be the best
outcome for the Libyan people and for businesses.”  Blair in Libya  Blair opened Libya to British business with his “deal in
the desert” in 2004 with Qaddafi, who promised to abandon a
nuclear-arms development effort, to destroy stockpiles of
chemical weapons and renounced terrorism. Three years later
Blair was back in Libya to announce BP’s return to the country
more than three decades after Qaddafi nationalized the oil
industry. The country had “huge new commercial opportunities”
for British business, he said then.  As political links between Britain and Libya increased,
more than 150 U.K.-based companies from BP to clothing retailer
 Marks & Spencer Group Plc (MKS)  arrived to start or prospect for
business. Farr-Jones, 35, was among finance executives from
London-based fund managers  Schroders Plc (SDR)  and   Aberdeen Asset
Management Plc and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  scheduled on the visit to
Tripoli, which was organized by the Libyan British Business
Council, according to the group’s website.  “The rapprochement between Libya and the West, and Al-
Megrahi’s transfer, indicated that the prospects for
privatization would be bigger and that Saif would assume the
reigns in a way that would be positive for Libya and
investors,” said Farr-Jones of  Renaissance Group , an asset-
management and investment-banking firm based in Moscow.  ‘No Illegality’  Groups such as the Libyan British Business Council and the
London-based  Middle East Association  boosted trade along with
companies such as London-based  British Arab Commercial Bank ,
which is 83 percent-owned by  Libya , and UKTI, which had five
people in Libya dedicated to promoting business.  “There was no illegality in doing business with Libya
before the UN sanctions were announced,” Robin Lamb, director
general of the Libyan British Business Council and a former U.K.
ambassador to Bahrain, said in an interview. “As a trading
nation, our economy depends on doing business around the world.
If we were to condition whether to do business with nations
based on whether we approved of them, then our balance of
payments and the jobs of many people in the U.K. would suffer.”  U.K. Exports  U.K. goods exports to Libya rose 51 percent to 423.3
million pounds ($693 million) in 2009, UKTI said in a  report 
last year. The U.K. was Libya’s fifth-largest trading partner in
the European Union in 2009 after  Italy ,  Germany ,  France  and
 Spain . Libya has  Africa ’s largest oil reserves.  “Today, Libya is back on the business map,” the trade
agency said in its report. “Change is in the air in Libya.”  The report didn’t say the nation is a dictatorship.
“Libya’s political structure is unique,” it said.  “Life is never dull!” said the report, which has since
been removed from the agency’s website.  Ibrahim Sahad, secretary general of opposition group the
National Front for the Salvation of Libya, and his deputy,
Mohammed Ali Abdallah, said Libya needs international businesses
to invest in the economy. They remain critical of the legitimacy
Blair’s actions gave to Qaddafi.  “Companies who wanted to do business in Libya would have
to do deals with Qaddafi and his sons and associates, and those
businesses would lobby for Qaddafi in their home countries and
help boost the international legitimacy of the regime,” Sahad
said in an interview. “That is the devil’s chain.”  A Blair spokesman didn’t respond to three e-mails seeking
comment.  Licenses Revoked  Britain has revoked at least eight export licenses to Libya
relating to weapons since fighting broke out. In the year to
Sept. 30, 2010, U.K. companies were given licenses for exports
to Libya of technology for the use of infrared or thermal
imaging equipment, crowd-control ammunition, small-arms
ammunition and tear gas, a panel of U.K. lawmakers said last
week. In 2009, they were licensed to export artillery computers,
combat shotguns, military-cargo vehicles and communications
equipment.  The present U.K. government and its predecessor “misjudged
the risk” that governments such as Libya and Bahrain would use
arms exported from Britain to suppress their own citizens, the
committee said in its report, without identifying the companies.  BP planned to invest more than $2 billion exploring for oil
and gas in Libya. The country “will be one of our major growth
areas,” Peter Manoogian, then a director of BP Exploration
Libya Ltd., told Bloomberg News in 2008. “We hope it will be a
new profit center for us.”  BP on Hold  The U.K.’s biggest oil and gas producer has pulled its non-
Libyan employees from the country, spokesman  Robert Wine 
said. BP also declared a force majeure on fuel purchases from
Tamoil SA, Libya’s overseas oil refiner, he said. Tamoil sued BP
over the stoppage in some European countries. Force majeure is a
legal clause enabling companies to miss contractual obligations
because of circumstances beyond their control.  “We just have to monitor the situation,” Wine said. “We
were at the beginning of an exploration program.”  HSBC and  Standard Chartered Plc (STAN)  last year bid for a Libyan
banking license, losing to  UniCredit SpA (UCG) , Italy’s biggest bank.
HSBC’s representative office in Tripoli is closed and its two
non-Libyan employees have left the country, spokesman Patrick Humphris said.  Standard Chartered  doesn’t have an office in
Libya, spokesman Shaun Gamble said.  Marks & Spencer  Marks & Spencer’s store in Tripoli opened in 2008 and
employs about 30 people, spokesman Philip Sorensen said. “The
store was closed as a precautionary measure when the protests
began in Tripoli in February,” he said. “It has subsequently
reopened. We continue to monitor the situation closely.”  Doing business in countries such as Libya isn’t necessarily
a breach of human rights, according to John Ruggie, a professor
at the Kennedy School of Government at  Harvard University  and
the United Nations secretary general’s special representative
for business and human rights.  “The main concern of a company would be to make sure that
it does not cause or contribute to human-rights abuses,” Ruggie
said. “Mere presence in a country where other parties may
violate human rights, or paying taxes to a government that may
do so, generally does not implicate the company itself.”  As an example of how investment may help Libyan people,
Renaissance’s Farr-Jones pointed to Libya’s  Economic & Social
Development Fund , which was started to help low-income families
buy shares in state-owned companies. BP’s Wine said the company
was investing $50 million to train Libyan oil workers.  Cameron Policy  “Normalization also benefitted the Libyan people by ending
their international isolation and allowing economic development
and reform to get under way,” the Libyan British Business
Council’s Lamb said. “British companies in Libya were involved
in the building of hospitals and universities.”  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron ’s decision to support the
rebels helps redeem the errors Blair made, the National Front
for the Salvation of Libya’s Sahad said.  “I am sure BP will have its share in Libya,” he said.
There will be no change in that regard, especially after the
situation now, where David Cameron has acted.”  “The British came to help,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Clark in London at 
 sclark4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  