-- 
Indonesia Central Bank May Delay Interest-Rate Increase as Inflation Eases

-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   M a n i s h   M o d i
-- 
2011-04-10T17:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/indonesia-central-bank-may-delay-interest-rate-increase-as-inflation-eases.html
Indonesia ’s central bank will
probably extend a pause in raising  interest rates  after
inflation slowed for a second month in March.  Bank Indonesia will keep its benchmark  reference rate  at
6.75 percent, according to all 18 economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. The central bank is due to release its decision
in Jakarta tomorrow.  Indonesia refrained from boosting borrowing costs last
month after increasing the key rate in February for the first
time in more than two years, saying a strengthening currency is
helping reduce price gains. That prompted economists at HSBC
Holdings Plc to question the central bank’s commitment to fight
inflation, and contributed to a drop in stocks amid concern a
prolonged pause may prompt more aggressive tightening later.  “The central bank still prefers to wait and watch even
though there are inflation risks in the pipeline,” said  Vishnu Varathan , an economist in Singapore at  Capital Economics  ( Asia )
Pte. “The rupiah’s appreciation has helped reduce imported
inflation but there are still domestic price pressures that need
to be addressed. They have to raise rates sooner rather than
later as just tightening via the exchange-rate channel will not
be enough.”  The Indonesian rupiah is the biggest gainer in Asia this
year, climbing about 3.9 percent, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Consumer prices in Southeast Asia’s largest economy
rose 6.65 percent last month from a year earlier, slower than
the 6.84 percent pace in February.  Pressure Easing  Indonesia’s credit rating was raised by  Standard & Poor’s 
on April 8 to the highest level since the Asian financial crisis
hit the country in 1997 because of the nation’s “resilient”
economy and improving finances. S&P said a diminishing of
inflationary pressures is among factors that are needed before
it raises Indonesia’s rating further.  The central bank said last month it isn’t concerned about
inflation in March, April and May as pressure on prices eases.
Governor Darmin Nasution avoided joining counterparts from
Malaysia to  India  in tightening policy last year before
unexpectedly raising rates in February by a quarter of a
percentage point.  “The risk is that the easing current inflation pressures
might induce  Bank Indonesia  to delay further policy
normalization,” said Vincent Conti, a Singapore-based analyst
at Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. “This tendency
should be resisted.”  Core inflation accelerated to 4.45 percent in March, from
4.36 percent the previous month.  Indonesia faces some inflationary pressure in the economy
beyond the impact of oil and food prices,  Andrew Colquhoun , head
of sovereign ratings for the Asia Pacific at  Fitch Ratings , said
in Jakarta on March 17.  Fuel Subsidy  Indonesia’s parliament last month approved a government
proposal to delay a planned cut of subsidized fuel sales that
was scheduled to begin April 1. The plan was postponed because
of the threat of faster inflation amid rising oil costs, and no
decision has been made on how long it will be delayed, according
to Teuku Rifky Harsya, chairman of the parliamentary commission
for energy affairs.  “The government’s economic stimulus by keeping fuel
subsidies will keep domestic purchasing power firm although it
could add to inflationary pressures in the future,” said Ari Pitoyo, head of research at PT Mandiri Sekuritas in Jakarta.
This will benefit companies that rely on consumer demand, Pitoyo
said.  President  Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono  is targeting annual
growth of 6.6 percent on average through the remainder of his
term ending in 2014, and companies from PT Bank Pan Indonesia to
 AirAsia Bhd. (AIRA)  are counting on rising demand in the world’s
fourth-most populous nation to boost their businesses.  Stock Picks  The  Jakarta Composite Index (JCI)  has gained 1 percent this year.
Pitoyo recommends stocks including Indonesia’s third-largest
mobile-phone carrier PT XL Axiata and cigarette producer PT
Gudang Garam, as well as tire producers PT Multistrada Arah
Sarana and PT Gajah Tunggal.  Still, the stock index dropped about 8 percent in January
amid concern Bank Indonesia will fall behind in combating
inflation and be forced to administer more aggressive steps
later.  The economy grew 6.9 percent in the final quarter of 2010,
the most in six years. Deputy Governor Hartadi Sarwono said
March 16 gross domestic product may have increased 6.6 percent
last quarter, higher than the central bank’s February forecast
of 6.4 percent.  “Indonesia’s growth fundamentals remain solid, and
monetary conditions are still too loose given the strength of
the recovery and the lack of spare capacity,” Conti said. “We
still think that three more rate hikes of 25 basis points each
by year-end are necessary to remove the existing monetary
stimulus.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shamim Adam in  Singapore  at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Greg Ahlstrand at 
 gahlstrand@bloomberg.net ;
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  