-- 
Insider Trading in China Thrives With Selectively Disclosed Economic Data

-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 
2011-04-10T21:00:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/insider-trading-in-china-thrives-with-selective-data-disclosure.html
Every month, traders, investors and
money managers like Shi Yu cull rumors about  China ’s soon-to-be-
released economic statistics for what might be the official
numbers to try and get an edge in the market.  On Saturday, Feb. 12, Shi read on an Internet chat forum
that January inflation would be a lower-than-forecast 4.9
percent. Two friends had heard the same, says Shi, who set a
strategy to sell shares into a rally he anticipated as the
figure spread.  When the markets opened on Monday, China’s benchmark
Shanghai Composite Index rose 2.5 percent, the most in two
months, on speculation China wouldn’t need to raise interest
rates further to cool rising prices. By the time the country’s
statistics bureau matched the number on Tuesday, Feb. 15, Shi
had gained 2 percent on his trades, he says.  “In China, it’s better to be prepared than to be
surprised,” said Shi, 42, an investment manager with Nanjing
21st Century Investment Group, a property developer in eastern
China. “There is a window for speculation.”  Numbers circulated before the publication of economic
indicators are right so often that it raises the prospect of
selective disclosure or insider trading, according to Yan Yiming,
a Shanghai-based securities lawyer.  “More often than not, we see the stock markets move
strangely before the release of statistics,” Yan said.  China, the world’s second-largest economy, must curb leaks
because they give an unfair advantage to investors who get the
information first, says Dariusz Kowalczyk, a senior economist in
 Hong Kong  at Credit Agricole CIB. The country’s rising influence
means the data can move markets globally, he said.  Risk of ‘Scandal’  “Those with early access can make money,” said Lu Ting, a
Hong Kong-based economist at Bank of America-Merrill Lynch. He
urged authorities to stem the leaks. “It’s an enormously
important issue to be dealt with. Otherwise, sooner or later,
we’ll see a scandal.”  Leaks happen to all key data from the National Bureau of
Statistics, Lu said. Economic indicators published by the agency
include gross domestic product, released quarterly, as well as
monthly industrial production and the  producer price index .
Figures for March will be released on April 15.  Early disclosure happens because too many government
offices see data before they’re made public, according to He Keng, a former deputy head of the department and now a member of
its consulting committee. A legal “loophole” means China’s
laws don’t count profiting on leaked economic indicators as
 insider trading , according to lawyer Yan.  Violates Law  The bureau says it’s acting to combat selective disclosure
of its data. Any unauthorized release violates the Statistics
Law and is punishable by a warning, demotion or firing,
according to a rule issued by the government in March 2009.  The department will cut down on how many people see
statistics before publication and reduce the window between
their calculation and release, its head Ma Jiantang told Reuters
last month. The comments were confirmed by the bureau without
elaborating. Ma wasn’t made available for an interview.  The  statistics bureau  a year ago shortened the time span
between the production and release of the  consumer price index 
to 48 hours from 72 hours, according to an official at its
Beijing headquarters who asked not to be identified because he
isn’t authorized to speak on the matter. He wouldn’t disclose
who sees the information.  Inflation Battle  February was the fourth straight month that the consumer
price index was accurately circulated in the market and press
reports before release. It’s become one of the most sought-after
numbers because of China’s battle to curb inflation, which
jumped to a 28-month high of 5.1 percent in November. The
central bank raised  interest rates  on April 5 for the fourth
time since October.  The data must be shared in advance with at least 10
government departments to “listen to their views and allow
everybody to be prepared,” according to He. They include the
 Ministry of Commerce ; the National Development and Reform
Commission, China’s top economic planner; and the People’s Bank
of China, the nation’s central bank, he said. None of those
bodies responded to faxed questions from Bloomberg News.  “The statistics bureau does have problems with other
departments announcing them first,” He said. “How are we able
to control it?”  Official Worries  People may pay to get access to the data, according to Ye Qing, a deputy head of the provincial statistics bureau in Hubei.  “I’m worried about it,” Ye said in an interview in
Beijing. “Securities analysts really want to see the data ahead
of time, even if it’s only half a day before.”  Germany  and the U.K. have taken steps in recent years to
reduce the chance of leaks. Germany’s labor agency last year
reduced the number of people involved in compiling monthly
unemployment statistics to stop data regularly appearing in
newspapers and on agency wires ahead of the official publication
time, said Ilona Mirtschin, a spokeswoman.  The window in which the U.K. Office for National Statistics
discloses official data to some government officials was
narrowed to 24 hours before publication from 40.5 hours in 2008.  Willful disclosure of protected data by unauthorized
persons in the U.S. is a felony punishable by as much as 5 years
imprisonment and a $250,000 fine. The late former  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  senior economist John Youngdahl was sentenced to 33
months in prison in 2004 for passing on to Goldman traders
advance information in October 2001 that the government planned
to stop selling 30-year bonds.  U.S. Disclosure Law  The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission adopted
Regulation Fair Disclosure in 2000 to quash the practice of
companies providing material information in meetings with
selective investors who could then trade on it before its public
disclosure.  China’s statistics bureau wouldn’t say whether any official
has been reprimanded for unauthorized disclosure.  The securities market regulator doesn’t investigate price
movements related to leaked economic indicators, according to a
senior official with the China Securities Regulatory Commission
who wouldn’t be identified, citing the sensitivity of the matter.
Insider trading rules guiding the watchdog relate only to those
benefitting from company-specific information, he said. The
securities regulator didn’t respond to faxed questions.  “We should make clear in the law that no individual is
allowed to leak such statistics,” says  Lu Zhengwei , a Shanghai-
based senior economist at Industrial Bank Co. “This is no
different from insider trading, which will be severely
punished.”  Earlier Leaks  Chinese stocks surged the most in five weeks on Jan. 19 as
Phoenix Satellite Television Holdings Ltd. reported on its
website that inflation had cooled to a 4.6 percent annual pace
in December and the economy had grown 10.3 percent last year.
The numbers were confirmed by the statistics bureau the next day.  The market began rising soon after 10:30 a.m., about 50
minutes before the Hong Kong-based Chinese broadcaster ran its
report. It cited an unidentified official with the People’s Bank
of China as saying that the economic figures were “leaked.”  The benchmark index ended the day 1.8 percent higher. After
the official releases the next day, the market closed down
almost 3 percent.  Last June, Reuters reported figures for consumer prices,
exports and new loans, which it said were divulged by an
unidentified government official at an investor conference.
Reuters cited three people who attended the event without
publishing their names. Export and new loan data are released by
other government bodies.  Misinformation  The report spurred the biggest gain in the  Shanghai 
Composite Index in two weeks and set off a stock rally from
 Europe  to the U.S. Official releases later matched or were close
to the numbers.  The National Bureau of Statistics  said it would
investigate the leak. It hasn’t said what the outcome was.  Traders have become so accustomed to selective disclosure
they routinely speculate on numbers regardless of whether the
talk in the market is true or not.  Three separate consumer price index figures circulated for
February all turned out to be wrong, said Shi, the Nanjing 21st
Century investment manager, over lunch in Nanjing’s business
district on March 23. Shi, who says he didn’t trade on the March
rumors, considers himself near the end of the information chain.
The figures “come to my ears naturally, with the wind,” he
said.  On the morning of Feb. 12, Shi said he was on an Internet
forum frequented by equity traders when someone posted: “Heard
CPI to be 4.9.” The median forecast for January was 5.4 percent,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  Rumor Spreads  That afternoon, sipping mocha on the porch of the New
Magazine Cafe in Nanjing with friends, two of them said they had
heard the 4.9 figure, according to Shi. By Sunday evening, it
was posted online by at least two users of Sina Weibo, a Chinese
microblogging service similar to Twitter.  “I expected some kind of data beautification, but not to
this extent,” Shi said. He had been aware that China was
scheduled that month to change the way it calculates inflation.
The weighting for food, which was a major driver of price gains
last year, was reduced.  The number was probably already known by some market
players because the Shanghai index rose before the weekend, Shi
said. The index gained 1.9 percent over two days through Friday,
Feb. 11.  Shi figured the market would rally when it opened on the
Monday and then fizzle when more people became aware of the
basket adjustment, he said. He was right. The index closed
unchanged on the day of the official announcement. The
statistics bureau says it reported the leak of January’s
consumer price index to relevant agencies, without elaborating.  Rising Significance  In the past, such statistics weren’t of much use beyond
government policy makers, says Lu of Bank of America-Merrill
Lynch. They have become more important as China’s financial
market has grown, he said.  China’s stock market last month overtook  Japan  as the
second-biggest by market capitalization after the U.S. China
plans to introduce a so-called international board this year,
allowing foreign companies to sell shares to Chinese investors,
 Fang Xinghai , director general of Shanghai’s financial services
office, told Bloomberg TV in July last year.  “As China’s significance grows, having reliable, quality
data released on a consistent and timely framework is very
important,” said Fraser Howie, the Singapore-based co-author of
two books about China’s financial markets. “Global markets are
looking at Chinese data to give them a picture of global
growth.”  China will inevitably take steps to level the playing field,
says Khiem Do, the Hong Kong-based head of Asian multi-asset
strategy at Baring Asset Management (Asia) Ltd.  “Of course it’s going to improve,” Khiem said. “It comes
with being a mature financial system.”  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Western at 
 nwestern@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Blau at 
 rblau1@bloomberg.net . 