-- 
Israeli, Gaza Strip Officials Appeal to One Another for End to Hostilities

-- B y   J o n a t h a n   F e r z i g e r   a n d   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 
2011-04-10T17:34:30Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/israeli-gaza-strip-officials-appeal-to-one-another-for-end-to-hostilities.html
Israeli and Hamas officials called
for an end to four days of fighting that left 19 Palestinians
dead, with each side appealing to the other to stop shooting.  About 10 rockets and mortar shells were fired today from
Gaza into  Israel , compared with 130 from Thursday through
Saturday, an army spokeswoman said, speaking on condition of
anonymity according to regulations. There were no reports of
Israeli attacks on Gaza today.  Fighting escalated after April 7 when militants from Gaza
fired an anti-tank missile at an Israeli school bus, injuring a
16-year-old passenger and the driver. Israeli forces struck
back, killing 19 Palestinians including a senior Hamas
commander, according to Adham Abu Selmeya, director of  emergency
services  for Hamas.  A senior Hamas official, Salah al-Bardaweel, told reporters
in the  Gaza Strip  today that a truce mediated by the  United
Nations  and  Egypt  had been agreed on. Richard Miron, spokesman
for the UN Special Coordinator for the Middle East peace process
Robert Serry, declined to comment.  Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu’s spokesman  Mark Regev  referred inquiries to Netanyahu’s statement today that the
military had been directed to “restore the calm,” and if
“this is the intention of Hamas, the quiet will return, but if
Hamas will intensify its attacks, the might of our response will
be more severe.”  Barak, Hamid  Israeli Defense Minister  Ehud Barak  said, “We will stop
firing if they stop all fire and it’s quiet.” He spoke in an
interview broadcast on Israel Radio. Ghazi Hamid, the Hamas
deputy foreign minister, said that “we are interested in calm
in the Gaza Strip, but on condition that the Israeli army will
also halt its activities against our people.” Hamid spoke in
Hebrew with Israel Radio.  The escalation in Gaza prompted comparisons with the period
at the end of 2008, before Israel launched a three-week military
operation that it said was aimed at stopping cross-border rocket
attacks. More than 1,300 Palestinians and 13 Israelis were
killed in the fighting. Israeli officials have raised the
possibility that the country may conduct another large-scale
military operation to stop the attacks.  The  Arab League  will ask Arab representatives in the UN
Security Council to request imposing a no-fly zone to prevent
Israeli aircraft from entering Gaza, Egypt’s Middle East News
Agency reported.  Commander Killed  An Israeli airstrike in southern Gaza yesterday killed
Tayser Abu Snima, 29, a senior Hamas militia commander, and two
assistants, Hamas said in a faxed statement. Abu Snima had been
involved in several attacks on Israel, including a rocket attack
on the southern resort city of Eilat, according to an Israeli
army spokeswoman, who declined to be further identified.  Two Palestinians died today of injuries sustained in
earlier Israeli raids, Abu Selmeya said.  At least 30 rockets and mortars were fired from Gaza
yesterday, and seven of them were intercepted by Israel’s new
Iron Dome missile defense system, the army spokeswoman said.  Israel will receive $250 million from the U.S. to fund
additional Iron Dome systems to protect against Gaza rocket
attacks, Israel Army Radio reported today, citing unidentified
security officials.  Hamas has ruled Gaza since seizing control in 2007 and
ending a partnership government with Palestinian Authority
President  Mahmoud Abbas . The group won parliamentary elections
the previous year.  Hamas is considered a terrorist organization by Israel, the
U.S. and the European Union.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan Ferziger in  Tel Aviv  at 
 jferziger@bloomberg.net ;
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  