-- 
Japan's Bond Yields Near Seven-Week High Before U.S. Sales, Inflation Data

-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 
2011-04-11T06:35:26Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/japanese-bonds-may-fall-for-a-fourth-day-before-u-s-retail-sales-report.html
Japan ’s 10-year bond yields reached
the highest level in seven weeks as signs the U.S. recovery is
gaining momentum damped demand for the safety of government debt.  Bonds maintained three days of losses before U.S. reports
this week forecast to show retail sales in the world’s biggest
economy advanced and inflation accelerated. Japan can fund
earthquake rebuilding without the central bank underwriting
 government bonds , Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano said
yesterday, without specifying where the funds will come from.  “Inflation concerns are resurging overseas, and domestic
investment for rebuilding is likely to be big,” said Toshiyuki Kurabayashi, assistant manager in Tokyo at the fixed-income
division of Mitsubishi UFJ Asset Management Co., a unit of
Japan’s largest lender by assets. “Long-term yields are
unlikely to decline when you think about fiscal concerns.”  The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March 2021 was
unchanged at 1.32 percent as of 3:30 p.m. in  Tokyo  at Japan Bond
Trading Co., the nation’s largest interdealer debt broker. The
price was 99.824 yen. The yield earlier climbed to 1.335 percent,
the highest since Feb. 17.  Ten-year bond futures for June delivery rose 0.05 to 138.67
at the afternoon close on Tokyo Stock Exchange.  U.S. Sales, Inflation  U.S. retail sales rose 0.5 percent in March, after gaining
1 percent in February, according to a Bloomberg survey before
the April 13 report. Producer prices increased 6.2 percent last
month from a year earlier, after gaining 5.6 percent in February,
a separate survey showed ahead of the April 14 figures.  Demand for so-called super-long bonds was tempered on
speculation investors will cut their holdings before a sale of
30-year securities tomorrow.  “Overall conditions will continue to be negative for
bonds,”  Kazuhiko Sano , chief strategist at Tokai Tokyo
Securities Co., wrote in a research note today. “Thirty-year
bonds should struggle to rise before tomorrow’s auction.”  The Ministry of Finance will sell 700 billion yen ($8.3
billion) of 30-year bonds. Primary dealers, which are required
to bid at government debt sales, often reduce holdings before an
auction in case prices decline before they can pass on the new
securities to investors.  Thirty-year yields were unchanged at 2.26 percent after
earlier climbing to 2.265 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 