-- 
Edano Says Japan Doesn't Need BOJ to Help Fund Post-Quake Disaster Relief

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-04-10T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/japan-can-fund-disaster-spending-plan-without-boj-bond-buying-edano-says.html
Chief Cabinet Secretary Yukio Edano
said Japan can fund earthquake rebuilding without the central
bank purchasing  government bonds , the clearest signal yet that
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  won’t embrace more aggressive plans for
stimulating the economy after last month’s disaster.  “We will secure necessary funding for reconstruction,”
Edano said in a roundtable interview yesterday in  Tokyo . “There
will be difficulties, but I believe we can secure enough funding
without the Bank of Japan underwriting bonds.”  Some lawmakers have called for the BOJ to directly purchase
bonds to fund rebuilding from the March 11 earthquake and
tsunami that devastated the country’s northeast, a proposal
central bank Governor Masaaki Shirakawa has rejected. While
Edano last week said an initial spending package could be as
much as 4 trillion yen ($47 billion), he gave no specifics
yesterday as to where the funding will come from.  “It’s been a month since the disaster and the government
still hasn’t come out with anything” detailing the scope of the
stimulus plan, said  Yoshiki Shinke , senior economist at Dai-Ichi
Life Research Institute in Tokyo. “The economy will remain in a
very severe state for some time, and there’s just so much
uncertainty about the outlook. It’s hard to see when we’ll begin
to see a meaningful rebound in growth.”  Analysts have repeatedly cut their forecasts for growth
after the quake and tsunami crippled a nuclear power plant and
caused electricity outages that added to the economic damage.
Manufacturing deteriorated at the fastest pace in at least nine
years in March as even intact factories had to cut back on
output to save power.  Shirakawa’s Position  Shirakawa has told lawmakers direct bond purchases would
lead to uncontrolled printing of money, undermining confidence
in the yen and  Japan ’s credit markets, and spurring inflation.
He and his board last month boosted the size of their asset-
purchase program by 5 trillion yen, or less than one-tenth the
size of the U.S. Federal Reserve’s quantitative easing program.  Japanese bonds last week fell for a third week as gains in
stocks and signs of global economic recovery reduced demand for
government debt. The yield on the 1.3 percent bond due March
2021 rose four basis points to 1.32 percent last week. The price
fell 0.352 yen to 99.824 yen. The benchmark Nikkei 225 Stock
Average has fallen 6.4 percent since March 10, the day before
the disaster.  “The markets would interpret such an unorthodox move by
the BOJ as a sign that Japan is in bad shape,” said Kazutaka Kirishima, an economics professor at Josai University northwest
of Tokyo. “The government can’t trigger a destructive scenario
that would undermine international confidence in the yen, will
lead to inflation and raise long-term  interest rates .”  Special Circumstances  The law allows for so-called debt monetization by the BOJ
in special circumstances with the Diet’s approval. The  Bank of
Japan (8301)  on April 7 unveiled a 1 trillion yen effort to channel
credit to businesses affected by the quake, a step that may help
avert bankruptcies among cash-strapped companies.  Economists at RBS Securities Co. project gross domestic
product will slide at an annual 5.8 percent pace this quarter,
leading to a 0.7 percent contraction for the year from April 1.
Nomura Securities Co. says the slump won’t be as steep, since
the reconstruction will help offset the initial slump, and is
forecasting a 0.8 percent expansion in fiscal 2011.  The magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami, which has left almost
28,000 people dead or missing and another 160,000 homeless,
crippled the Fukushima Dai-Ichi nuclear plant owned by Tokyo
Electric Power Co. One month later, Tepco is still using
emergency equipment to cool damaged reactors. The company is
trying to prevent further hydrogen explosions after blasts
damaged containment structures, releasing radiation into the air
and sea.  ‘Blank Slate’  The government must consider whether to separate the
Nuclear and Industrial Safety Agency from the  Ministry of
Economy, Trade and Industry  to ensure its independence, Edano
said. We must approach the issue with a “blank slate,” he
said.  During yesterday’s interview he ate strawberries from
Fukushima in an effort to allay concerns over contaminated food.
Japan has restricted vegetable and raw-milk shipments from areas
near the plant after discovering radiation in products through
random testing.  Edano, 46, has been the most prominent member of Kan’s
administration since the record temblor struck. In the week
after the quake, he appeared as often as five times a day to
give televised briefings on the situation, raising his profile
as a possible future prime minister.  Born in Tochigi Prefecture, which borders the province
holding the stricken nuclear reactors in Fukushima, his alma
mater is  Tohoku University  in Sendai, a coastal city devastated
by the tsunami.  He said yesterday he was relieved to locate several of his
college friends in evacuation centers.  “I have to be in Tokyo for my duties, but I’ve been hoping
to visit Sendai as soon as possible,” he said. “I was
extremely shocked to see the scenes of places in Sendai, where I
went when I was a student, swept away by the tsunami.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  