-- 
Japan Nuclear Crisis May Slow Nuclear Projects, Accenture Says

-- B y   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 
2011-04-10T09:32:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/japan-nuclear-crisis-may-slow-nuclear-projects-accenture-says.html
The earthquake and tsunami in  Japan 
that damaged nuclear power plants and led radioactive material
to be released may delay development of new reactors, an
 Accenture Plc (ACN)  oil and gas industry expert said.  Nuclear plant operators and governments planning facilities
are likely to review safety measures and processes for dealing
with spent fuel, Arthur Hanna, an industry managing director at
the consultancy, said in an interview in Kuwait on April 5.  “Nuclear will be part of the future energy mix,” Hanna
said. The crisis won’t eliminate atomic power as an energy
source, Hanna said. “It’s going to be an ‘and’ world, not an
‘either-or’ world” when it comes to energy sources, he said.  Abu Dhabi will build a nuclear power plant even after the
earthquake and tsunami in Japan, Abdullah Saif al-Nuaimi,
director general of the emirate’s utility  Abu Dhabi  Water and
Electricity Authority, said March 28. A civilian nuclear program
in the capital of the  United Arab Emirates  would be the first in
an Arab state in the Persian Gulf if the project starts
operating as planned in 2017.  Saudi Arabia  and Kuwait are considering nuclear programs.
Adopting nuclear power isn’t optional for Middle Eastern states,
as they need to add capacity to meet rising domestic power
demand,  Jarmo Kotilaine , chief economist with National
Commercial Bank in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, said March 29.  The March 11 earthquake and tsunami were catastrophic
events for Japan and the energy industry, Hanna said.  “Catastrophic change leads to a fundamental rethink of the
process of managing hazards,” Hanna said. “Will it cause the
end of the industry? No. Will it cause the industry to pause?
Yes. Will it add to the time by which we access some of these
nuclear programs? Yes, I would expect so.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net  