-- 
Japan’s Machinery Orders Decreased in February Before Quake

-- B y   K e i k o   U j i k a n e   a n d   M a y u m i   O t s u m a
-- 
2011-04-11T01:05:58Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/japan-s-machinery-orders-decreased-in-february-before-quake-1-.html
Japan ’s machinery orders fell for
the first time in three months in February before a record
earthquake and a tsunami devastated the northeastern region.  Factory orders decreased 2.3 percent from January, when
they rose 4.2 percent, the Cabinet Office said today in Tokyo.
Orders, an indicator of  capital spending  in three to six months,
were projected to drop 0.9 percent, according to the median
forecast of 28 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.  The March 11 temblor caused a nuclear crisis north of Tokyo
and disrupted power and supply chains, prompting companies
including Toyota Motor Corp. and Honda Motor Co. to cut
production.  Bank of Japan  Governor Masaaki Shirakawa said today
the economy will face “strong downward pressure” after the
catastrophe because of a slowdown in corporate output.  “It’s unavoidable that companies’ production activities
will slump because of the power shortage and the damage caused
by the disaster,” Jun Kawakami, a market analyst at Mizuho
Securities Co. in  Tokyo , said before the report. “Given concerns
that the nuclear problem will linger, it’s hard to expect
companies to regain confidence rapidly and increase business
spending.”  From a year earlier, factory orders increased 7.6 percent
in February, today’s report showed.  ‘Appropriate Policy Action’  The economy will be weighed down by damaged production
facilities, disrupted supply chains and reduced electric power
after the quake, Shirakawa told a quarterly gathering of BOJ
branch managers today.  The BOJ stands ready to “take appropriate policy action as
necessary,” he said. Japan’s central bank last month doubled to
10 trillion yen ($118 billion) a program to provide liquidity to
the market by buying assets such as corporate debt and exchange-
traded funds.  It also last week offered a 1 trillion yen, one-year loan
program to banks aimed at getting funds to companies hit by the
quake and tsunami.  A report last week showed confidence among Japanese
merchants fell at the fastest pace on record last month, a sign
consumers are cutting back after the earthquake.  Honda Motor will need two to three months to restore its
production at Japan auto plants back to normal levels, Chief
Executive Officer Takanobu Ito said on April 8.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said the tsunami generated by last
month’s earthquake was as high as 15 meters (49 feet) at its
crippled nuclear station, which has been leaking radiation since
the surge knocked out backup power systems.  The company is still using emergency equipment to try to
cool reactors damaged at the Fukushima Dai-Ichi station north of
Tokyo after electricity was knocked out.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keiko Ujikane in Tokyo at 
 kujikane@bloomberg.net 
Mayumi Otsuma in Tokyo  at
 motsuma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  