-- 
Japan’s Prime Minister to Address Nation One Month After Quake

-- B y   Y u j i   O k a d a   a n d   A a r o n   S h e l d r i c k
-- 
2011-04-10T20:43:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/japan-s-prime-minister-to-address-nation-one-month-after-quake.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan 
will address the nation today, one month after an earthquake and
tsunami devastated the country’s northern coastline.  More than 60 percent of voters disapprove of Kan’s handling
of the nuclear crisis, according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll
published on April 4.  Tokyo Electric Power Co. said the tsunami generated by last
month’s earthquake was as high as 15 meters (49 feet) at its
crippled nuclear station, which has been leaking radiation since
the surge knocked out backup power systems. The base of the
station is about 10 meters above  sea level .  “Most of the area around the reactor buildings and turbine
housings was swamped,” the utility known as Tepco said in a
statement April 9.  Yesterday’s re-election of  Tokyo  Governor Shintaro Ishihara
and other opposition-backed gubernatorial candidates in polls
across the country may weaken Kan’s position in negotiations to
pass new spending, analysts said.  One month after the March 11 disaster, Tepco is still using
emergency equipment to try to cool reactors damaged at the
Fukushima Dai-Ichi station north of Tokyo after mains
electricity was knocked out. The company is trying to prevent
further explosions after blasts damaged containment structures,
releasing radiation into the air and sea.  Contaminated Water  Tepco plans to start transferring high-level radioactive
water in a trench at the station’s No. 2 reactor to a condenser.  “We aim to drain the contaminated water away immediately
as the level has risen to less than one meter below the top of
the trench,” said Teruaki Kobayashi, the head of the company’s
nuclear maintenance group, yesterday in Tokyo.  About 60,000 metric tons of contaminated water lies in the
basements of turbine buildings and trenches around the No. 1, 2
and 3 reactors, the company said last week. Tepco needs to drain
the water to restore reactor cooling systems in the turbine
buildings.  “Work to restore the cooling systems is lagging behind
because it’s taking longer than expected to drain radioactive
water from the basements,” Hironobu Unesaki, a nuclear
engineering professor at  Kyoto University , said April 9.  Tepco said on April 8 that the station, which has six
reactors and is about 220 kilometers (137 miles) north of Tokyo,
wasn’t further damaged by a magnitude-7.1 aftershock on April 7.  The magnitude-9 earthquake,  Japan ’s strongest on record,
and tsunami left more than 27,700 dead or missing, according to
Japan’s  National Police Agency . The government estimated the
damage at 25 trillion yen ($295 billion).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Yuji Okada in Tokyo at 
 yokada6@bloomberg.net ;
Aaron Sheldrick in Tokyo at 
 asheldrick@blooomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  