-- 
Kylie’s $25 Million Tour Has Leather-Bound Slaves, Gold Chariot

-- B y   R o b e r t   H e l l e r
-- 
2011-04-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/kylie-s-25-million-tour-has-leather-bound-slaves-gold-chariot.html
Brace yourselves, Kylie is coming
to a stage near you soon.  Expect her to arrive in a golden chariot pulled by leather-
bound slaves and dance through a phalanx of half-naked Spartans.
It’s an extravagant way to stage a singalong to some electro-
disco pop tunes.  Kylie Minogue’s (as she used to be known) “Aphrodite: Les
Folies” is a spectacle hard to beat. The stage is created by  WET
Design , known for the Fountains of  Bellagio  in  Las Vegas . Taking
its cue from “ Aphrodite ,” her most recent album, it resembles an
ancient Greek temple, with integrated video screens. Tiers of
her body-beautiful dancers elegantly splash fans in the front
rows.  Kylie’s website quotes a budget of $25 million for staging
a 63-date tour visiting 23 countries. Her five shows at  London ’s
 O2  continue tonight and tomorrow. Then she’s off to  Japan ,
 Canada ,  Mexico  and the U.S., returning to her native  Australia 
in June.  The Greek theme allows Kylie, 42, to indulge her core 
fanbase. There are lashings of homoerotic imagery. Videos pay
as much homage to Robert Mapplethorpe’s more  risque  photography
as is possible in a family show. Toned male dancers cavort in
nothing more than a strategic sliver of gold lame.  Designers Dolce & Gabbana dress Kylie more modestly. She
wears a succession of spuriously Hellenic outfits, mostly in
white, gold and silver. She looks as immaculate as her publicity
photographs at all times. Not even a bead of sweat disturbs her
pristine complexion. Kylie remains sanitized throughout.  The music is just as flawless, with a four-piece band and
two backing singers. Kylie’s voice is proficient if limited.  Matching Madonna  She has sold more than 60 million records. While the U.S.
might not quite get her, for the rest of the world she’s a match
for Madonna, with Ms. Ciccione’s hard New York ambition replaced
with home-town girl charm and a giggly sense of glamour.  The set spans Kylie’s career. She started as a soap-opera
actress, singing cheap and cheerful electronic pop. Her first
hit, “I Should Be So Lucky” in 1987, is a musical nadir of the
1980s and now is poignantly done a capella. From then on, she
co-opts dance music and cherrypicks some of the best pop.  “Confide in Me” soars with vulnerable confidence. “Slow” is
played in a jazz style and is sultry. “All the Lovers” is
climactic. “Can’t Get You Out of My Head” is turned into a
disappointing rocker.  There are also fillers. Too many songs sound thin in front
of the relentless onstage opulence. Kylie struggles to assert
her presence amid the visual onslaught. The crowd is left gaping
rather than dancing, singing and having fun.  “Les Folies” lacks soul, a show that ate its star.  Rating: **.  Kylie’s “Aphrodite: Les Folies Tour 2011” has been
playing across  Europe  since February, with its final dates at
the O2 tonight and tomorrow.  Her “Aphrodite: Live 2011” show starts in Japan, moving
to Canada, Mexico and the U.S. The New York shows are May 2-4 at
the Hammerstein Ballroom. The Les Folies tour resumes in June in
Brisbane, also playing Sydney,  Melbourne , Adelaide and Perth.  Kylie’s CD is on EMI/ Parlophone, priced from $12.98 in the
U.S. and 8.99 pounds in the U.K. Download fees vary across
services.  Information:  http://www2.kylie.com ,
 http://www.kylie.com/tour . For information on the Japan
concerts,  http://www.creativeman.co.jp/artist/2011/04kylie/   ( Robert Heller  is a music critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Robert Heller in London at  roberthelleruk@yahoo.co.uk   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 