-- 
Libya Rebels Spurn African Union Cease-Fire Unless Qaddafi Gives Up Power

-- B y   M a h e r   C h m a y t e l l i
-- 
2011-04-11T20:03:34Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/nato-warplanes-destroy-tanks-supply-routes-in-libya-s-ajdabiya-misrata.html
Libya’s rebels rejected an  African
Union  cease-fire proposal that wouldn’t immediately remove
 Muammar Qaddafi , as a doctor in the besieged city of Misrata
reported children are being killed by the regime’s
“indiscriminate shelling.”  The African Union said in an e-mailed statement today that
Qaddafi agreed to end hostilities immediately and hold talks
“with the view to adopting and implementing the political
reforms necessary for the elimination of the causes of the
current crisis.”  There was no mention of Qaddafi stepping down, a demand of
the rebels and members of the anti-Qaddafi alliance led by the
U.S., France and the U.K.  “Qaddafi must leave immediately if he wants to survive,”
the head of Libya’s rebel council, Mustafa Abdel Jalil, said at
a televised news conference today in Benghazi.  In Misrata,  Libya ’s third largest city, the situation is
“very bad” with shelling coming within a few hundred yards of
a hospital, according to James Elder, a spokesman UNICEF in
Cairo. “All day, casualties have poured in, including families
killed,” he said in an e-mail today after talking by Skype with
a doctor at the hospital. He said the doctor described seeing a
three-year-old girl who had been killed by a sniper’s bullet in
the head.  In a statement today, UNICEF, the  United Nations Children’s
Fund , called for an immediate end to the siege, warning that
“tens of thousands of children” are at risk. The Libyan
government will “confront anyone trying to get close to Misrata
under the pretext of humanitarian aid,” Libyan state television
said according to Al Arabiya television.  Oil Declines  Oil for May delivery fell $2.87, or 2.5 percent, to settle
at $109.92 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , after
the  International Monetary Fund  cut growth forecasts for the
U.S. and  Japan . It was the biggest decline since March 15.
Futures settled at $112.79 a barrel on April 8, the highest
close since Sept. 22, 2008.  After almost two months of fighting, troops loyal to
Qaddafi and rebels in the North African country, holder of
Africa’s largest oil reserves, have fought to a stalemate, with
battles moving back and forth in a small area along the coast.
Qaddafi’s forces today continued to rain artillery fire into
Misrata, where NATO airstikes have failed to protect civilians
from the loyalists, the  Associated Press  reported.  Misrata Shelled  NATO reported yesterday flying 70 ‘strike sorties,’’ flight
missions looking for targets to hit, up from 56 on April 9.
Qaddafi forces have “large quantities of tanks and other
armored vehicles” in and around Misrata, Lieutenant-General
Charles Bouchard, NATO’s mission commander, said in an e-mailed
statement.  ‘Early this morning Qaddafi forces shelled the city for
more than 30 minutes, this despite the Qaddafi government
talking of a cease fire,’’ he said.  An AU delegation including representatives from the
Democratic Republic of the Congo,  Mali ,  Mauritania , South  Africa 
and  Uganda  arrived in Benghazi today to meet rebel leaders,
after presenting the plan to Qaddafi yesterday.  The AU proposal provides for a cease-fire, the organization
of humanitarian relief efforts, the protection of foreign
nationals and a “political process,” Mull Katende, Uganda’s
ambassador to the union, said before talks with the rebels
began. Once political negotiations began, the subject of
Qaddafi’s departure could be discussed, he said.  No Deal  “The initiative that was presented by the African Union
doesn’t satisfy the aspirations of the Libyan people for freedom
and doesn’t provide for the removal of Qaddafi,” Abdulhafid
Ghoga, spokesman of the Interim Transitional National Council,
said in Benghazi. “It speaks about reforming the system from
within, and this is rejected.”  In  Washington , U.S. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  said
Qaddafi’s departure as a non-negotiable element. There “needs
to be a transition that reflects the will of the Libyan people
and the departure of Qaddafi from power and from Libya,”
Clinton told reporters today.  Asked about the African Union’s peace proposal, Clinton
said she would wait for a ‘full briefing’’ before responding.  Regime Fears  Mediation efforts may not work because “people on the
rebel side are totally committed to Qaddafi leaving power, and
he won’t,” said Andrew Terrill, a Middle East specialist at the
Strategic Studies Institute of the U.S. Army War College. “They
fear that any compromise with Qaddafi where he stays in power,
he’ll put them in jail or have them executed.”  The U.S. and allies from the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization began air strikes against Qaddafi’s forces on March
19, a day after a UN resolution authorized the creation of a no-
fly zone over Libya to protect civilians.  After initial advances under NATO air cover, the rebels
were again pushed back by Qaddafi’s forces, leading some
insurgent leaders to criticize the U.S.-led military campaign.  The opposition forces yesterday regained control of the
strategic coastal town of Ajdabiya, with help from NATO strikes,
said Khaled El Shayeh, a coordinator between the rebel military
at the frontline and their political leadership in Benghazi.
“NATO did a great effort yesterday,” he said in a phone
interview. “The whole of Ajdabiya is under our control.”  Airstrikes blew up 11 tanks belonging to forces loyal to
Qaddafi as they approached Ajdabiya yesterday, and 14 more were
hit earlier on the outskirts of Misrata, NATO reported. NATO
also said strikes left craters in the road used by Qaddafi to
resupply troops shelling Ajdabiya.  ‘Huge Success’  South African President  Jacob Zuma , who led the first part
of the delegation to Tripoli, yesterday called on NATO to end
its bombardment and “give the cease-fire a chance,” the AP
reported. Zuma returned to  South Africa  today, describing the
meeting as a “huge success,” according to an e-mailed
statement from his office.  The African delegation was met in Benghazi today by
thousands of people chanting anti-government slogans and waving
Libyan, French, Spanish and Qatari flags. Outside the Hotel
Cibefti, where the AU talks with rebels were taking place,
people held banners that read “Qaddafi=Misery” and “No
dialogue until the tyrant and his children leave”  NATO Secretary General Anders Fogh Rasmussen said any
cease-fire agreement between Libyan regime forces and the
rebellion must be “credible and verifiable.”  “We have seen quite a number of announced cease-fires and
they have not been implemented, and for that reason we need to
establish an effective monitoring mechanism,” Rasmussen told
reporters in Brussels today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maher Chmaytelli in Benghazi at 
 mchmaytelli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  