-- 
New York Yankees Beat Boston Red Sox 9-4 to Tie Series; Mets, Phillies Win

-- B y   N a n c y   K e r c h e v a l
-- 
2011-04-10T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/new-york-yankees-beat-boston-red-sox-9-4-to-tie-series-mets-phillies-win.html
Catcher Russell Martin hit two home
runs and Robinson Cano and Curtis Granderson added one each to
power the  New York Yankees  to a 9-4  Major League Baseball  win
yesterday over the  Boston Red Sox .  Martin hit a three-run homer in the fourth inning and a
solo home run in the seventh for the Yankees (5-3) at Fenway
Park in  Boston . Formerly with the  Los Angeles Dodgers , Martin
signed a $4 million, one-year contract as a free agent in
December.  “I saw him as a very productive player,” Yankees manager
Joe Girardi said. “I wasn’t saying he was going to hit 30
homers and 120 RBIs, but I thought he’d be a productive player
in our lineup, because he could do so many things.”  The Yankees, with 18 home runs this season, have homered in
seven of their eight games.  David Robertson (1-0) pitched 1 2/3 perfect innings for the
win. Clay Buchholz (0-2) allowed five runs on eight hits in 3
2/3 innings to take the loss for Boston (1-7).  The  Red Sox , who started the season 0-6, tallied their only
victory April 8 in their first matchup against the Yankees. They
end the three-game series tonight.  At Citi Field in  New York , Carlos Beltran hit a two-run
homer in the first inning and a solo shot in the fourth to give
the Mets an 8-4 win over the Washington Nationals.  Swapping Leads  Danny Espinosa hit a three-run homer in the second to give
the Nationals a 3-2 lead, Beltran tied the score in the fourth
before Ian Desmond hit a solo home run to left in the fifth
inning to return the lead to Washington (3-5).  The Mets (4-4) followed with a two-run sixth inning and
two-run eighth to seal the victory.  Chris Capuano (1-0) struck out eight in six innings,
allowing seven hits and four runs for the win. Tom Gorzelanny
went 5 1/3 innings, giving up four hits and six runs and
striking out eight.  At Turner Field in Atlanta, Carlos Ruiz hit a pinch-hit
grand slam in the seventh inning and an RBI double in the eighth
to help the Philadelphia Phillies (6-2) to a 10-2 win over the
Atlanta Braves.  Roy Oswalt (2-0) earned the first regular season win of his
career over the Braves (4-5), giving up five hits and two runs
in six innings. Brandon Beachy (0-1) surrendered seven hits and
four runs in six innings.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nancy Kercheval in  Washington  at 
 nkercheval@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  