-- 
Niederauer Says NYSE Begins Shareholder Meetings on Deutsche Boerse Merger

-- B y   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-11T20:15:21Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/niederauer-says-nyse-deutsche-boerse-will-cut-more-costs-1-.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX)  Chief Executive
Officer  Duncan Niederauer  started meeting with shareholders
today to convince them his agreement with Deutsche Boerse AG is
superior to an unsolicited bid from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  that was rejected yesterday.  NYSE Euronext, the largest U.S. exchange operator, will
explain to owners why the February agreement with Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Boerse is better than the Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid,
which was valued 17 percent higher yesterday, Niederauer said in
a Bloomberg Television interview today. The New York-based
company spoke with four or five investors today, he added. The
board of NYSE Euronext affirmed its commitment to Deutsche
Boerse yesterday.  Niederauer signaled NYSE Euronext is sticking with its plan
to portray its $9.67 billion merger with Deutsche Boerse as more
likely to create long-term value for shareholders. While he is
pitching the merger agreement to owners, Nasdaq OMX CEO  Robert Greifeld  and ICE CEO Jeffrey Sprecher said they will also be
holding meetings and have received “very positive” feedback
from NYSE Euronext holders on their bid.  “Starting this morning, we now are actively out talking to
the shareholders about the merits of the combination with
Deutsche Boerse,” Niederauer said today from the floor of the
New York Stock Exchange. “Our counterparts from Deutsche Boerse
are here this week, and we’re confident by the end of the week
they’ll have a much clearer idea of where we’re headed.”  Cost Savings  Nasdaq OMX and ICE said April 1 that their bid offered
about $740 million in expense cuts and “synergies,”
accomplished through eliminating jobs and closing trading
systems. Their forecast exceeded the 400 million euros ($578
million) in benefits Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext laid out
in their Feb. 15 agreement.  The  New York  Stock Exchange owner said those projections
with Deutsche Boerse are probably too low, aiming to undermine a
feature of Nasdaq OMX’s unsolicited bid that Greifeld billed as
a key advantage.  “Give us two or three weeks, but I would imagine that
we’ll be articulating that those synergies were in fact
conservative,” Niederauer said in a separate interview
yesterday. “We could have spent six months sharpening the
pencil and we decided that the leak-risk for doing that was too
high and probably outweighed the reward, so we decided to be
articulate, but conservative. What we’ve continued to do in the
last couple weeks is sharpen the pencil.”  Jobs, Technology  Deutsche Boerse’s deal was valued at $36.96 a share at 9:23
p.m. New York time yesterday, compared with the $43.13-a-share
offer from Nasdaq OMX and ICE. An increased cost-cut estimate
may help Niederauer persuade shareholders to back the bid from
Deutsche Boerse CEO Reto Francioni.  NYSE Euronext fell 2.9 percent to $37.59 at 4 p.m. New York
time.  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  rose 1 percent to 54.98 euros. Nasdaq
OMX dropped 1.5 percent to $28.03, and ICE ended the day at
$120.55, the same as April 8.  Greifeld, 53, has built his reputation on reducing expenses
after takeovers. Justin Schack, managing director in charge of
market structure analysis at Rosenblatt Securities Inc. in New
York, said April 1 that “no one has been better than Nasdaq at
acquiring and efficiently integrating companies.”  The bid from New York-based Nasdaq OMX and ICE of Atlanta
for NYSE Euronext envisions breaking up the company, with Nasdaq
OMX keeping the listings, options and equities businesses and
selling the Liffe derivatives platforms to ICE.  Nasdaq OMX, ICE Respond  “NYSE Euronext’s board of directors is depriving its
stockholders of the benefits of a superior proposal,
disregarding the fundamental corporate governance principles
that it has espoused for the rest of corporate America,”
Greifeld said in a statement yesterday. “The feedback we have
received from NYSE Euronext stockholders is very positive, and
we would expect NYSE Euronext would, at the very least, meet
with us.”  Sprecher said he expected shareholders to voice
“displeasure” about the board’s rejection.  “We will continue meeting with investors, customers and
regulators to highlight the many ways in which our proposal is
superior, not only for the stockholders of NYSE Euronext, but
also for market participants in the U.S. and  Europe ,” he said
in yesterday’s statement.  Niederauer said the Deutsche Boerse deal would be better
for  New York City  than the Nasdaq OMX-ICE proposal. The combined
entity with Deutsche Boerse would have about 6,200 or 6,300
employees at the time the deal closed, he said.  More than 1,000?  “What we’ve been perplexed by is how you promise all these
synergies but then caveat it by saying it’s going to be great
for New York, it’s going to create jobs in New York,” he said,
speaking of the Nasdaq OMX-ICE offer. “I don’t know how you
deliver those kinds of synergies without eliminating hundreds if
not above 1,000 jobs in New York.”  The NYSE Euronext CEO started today on plans to meet with
shareholders to explain why the Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid was rejected
on grounds that it creates less value for shareholders in the
long run.  “On paper, this proposal that’s been presented, which is
loosely worded and full of unanswered questions, may appear on
the surface to be more valuable,” Niederauer said. “But until
you assess the tax leakage, the synergies and the other
potential execution risks that we talked about, it’s hard to
really say that that’s an apple and an apple.”  Niederauer, Francioni  With  Deutsche Boerse , the combined entity would make
Niederauer CEO and Francioni, 55, the chairman. Niederauer said
speculation that he would be ousted should Nasdaq OMX and ICE
succeed with their offer didn’t affect his evaluation of the
rival offer.  “You make the decisions that you think are best for your
company, best for your shareholders, best for your other
stakeholders, and the chips fall where they may,” Niederauer,
51, said. “If the marketplace concludes that there’s a person
that’s more qualified to run this company, then I’m a big fan of
the school that says you’re the right person for the job until
you’re not.”  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext announced they were in
advanced merger talks on Feb. 9, a day after London Stock
Exchange Group Plc said it would purchase  Canada ’s TMX Group
Inc. In October, Singapore Exchange Ltd. offered to buy Sydney-
based ASX Ltd. The ASX deal was blocked by the Australian
government last week.  “We believe that this is the beginning of a consolidation
wave and not the end, and we want to be sure we’re running a
company that’s in a position to take advantage of those
opportunities,” Niederauer said. “All of that in our view
combined with a very diversified set of businesses creates a
tremendous amount of  shareholder value , and it’s our job to
articulate that to them clearly so that they understand that
today’s prices are not necessarily indicative of the value
creation opportunity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at 
 nbaker7@bloomberg.net  