-- 
Nigerian Opposition Parties Making Gains Against PDP in Legislative Vote

-- B y   D u l u e   M b a c h u   a n d   E l i s h a   B a l a - G b o g b o
-- 
2011-04-10T16:31:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/nigerian-opposition-parties-making-gains-against-pdp-in-legislative-vote.html
Nigerian opposition parties gained
against the ruling People’s  Democratic Party  in parliamentary
elections held yesterday in  Africa ’s top oil-producing nation,
according to early results released by the  Independent National
Electoral Commission .  Dimeji Bankole, speaker of the House of Representatives,
lost his seat and Iyabo Obasanjo-Bello, daughter of former
President Olusegun Obasanjo, failed to return to the Senate as
the opposition Action Congress of Nigeria swept most seats in
the southwest region. The ruling party won senatorial seats in
three states in the country’s southeast, while losing a
senatorial seat in northern Bauchi state to the Congress for
Progress Change, or CPC.  All results are expected within 48 hours of the end of the
vote, and collation of results continue across the country today
after many ballots came in late from remote districts, the
commission known as INEC said.  “The pattern we have seen is the confirmation of the PDP’s
strength in the southeast and the expansion of the Action
Congress in the southwest,” Jibrin Ibrahim, director of Abuja-
based good governance advocacy group,  Center for Democracy and
Development , said in an interview. “In the north the CPC is
showing strength.”  The vote to choose members of the 109-seat Senate and 360-
seat  House of Representatives  yesterday is a prelude to the
presidential contest on April 16 that pits President Goodluck Jonathan against 18 rivals, including former military ruler
Muhammadu Buhari and the former head of the anti-graft agency,
Nuhu Ribadu. Voters on April 26 will choose the governors and
legislatures of Nigeria’s 36 states.  Explosions in Maiduguri  Two separate explosions at polling centers in the
northeastern city of Maiduguri killed three people and injured
several others. No group claimed responsibility for the blasts.
Violent intimidation of voters and attempts to snatch ballots
were reported in some constituencies in the southern oil-rich
Niger River delta and Zaria city in the north, Attahiru Jega,
chairman of the Independent National Electoral Commission, or
INEC, said yesterday.  At least 12 people died in an explosion that hit an INEC
office on election eve in the central city of Suleja, Yemi Ajayi, police said. In the northern city of Kaduna, a suspected
bomber died the same day when an explosive he was handling went
off prematurely, he said.  Opinion Polls  Suleja, which is about 50 kilometers (31 miles) north of
Abuja, was rocked by an attack on March 3 that killed 10 people
when explosives were hurled into a rally of the PDP. More than
50 people have died in election-related violence since July,
according to  Amnesty International , while sectarian clashes in
the north have claimed the lives of at least 200 since Dec. 24.  Jonathan was leading in the latest public opinion poll
conducted by  Ipsos  for  ThisDay , the Lagos-based newspaper
reported on April 6. The survey said 62.1 percent of the voters
favored Jonathan for next week’s vote, compared with 23.6
percent for Buhari and 6 percent for Ribadu, with more than 6
percent undecided.  To win in the first round, Jonathan must obtain a simple
majority and secure 25 percent of the vote in two-thirds of the
states. The Ipsos/ThisDay poll showed him getting 25 percent in
32 states and the  Federal Capital Territory of Abuja .  Nigeria’s last election, in 2007, was condemned by local
and international observers for being marred by violent
intimidation of opponents, falsification of figures and ballot-
snatching. Jonathan, who succeeded former President Umaru Yar’Adua on his death in May 2010, pledged to conduct free
elections and appointed Attahiru Jega, a respected academic, to
head INEC.  Oil Industry  Nigeria, Africa’s most populous nation of more than 140
million, is the fifth-largest source of U.S. oil imports. Hague-
based  Royal Dutch Shell Plc (RDSA) , Irving, Texas-based  Exxon Mobil
Corp. (XOM) ,  Chevron Corp. (CVX)  of  San Ramon ,  California ,  Total SA (FP)  of
 France  and  Italy ’s  Eni SpA (ENI)  run joint ventures with the state-
owned Nigerian National Petroleum Corp. that pump more than 90
percent of the West African nation’s oil.  Since Nigeria’s return to civilian government in 1999 after
15 years of military rule, the PDP has presided over the
spending of more than $300 billion in oil export revenue. During
that time income disparities have widened, with 54 percent of
the population living on less than $1 a day, about 22 million
citizens illiterate, and maternal mortality of 800 per 100,000
live births, a rate among the highest in the world, according to
the  United Nations Development Programme .  ‘Lose Confidence’  Investor concern over the recent surge of election and
sectarian violence triggered increased domestic demand for
foreign currency, central bank Governor Lamido Sanusi said in a
March 15 interview in Abuja. That has weakened the naira, which
reached an 18-month low against the dollar on March 17.  While an armed insurgency in the Niger River delta that cut
more than 28 percent of the nation’s oil output from 2006 to
2009 remains relatively quiet, parts of the north have been hit
by a mounting campaign of violence by Islamist militants
inspired by  Afghanistan ’s Taliban movement.  “If  Nigeria ’s elections are not a significant improvement
over 2007, and if the current elections do not meet the
expectations of a majority of voters, the Nigerian people will
lose confidence in their leaders, their democratic institutions,
and the capacity of Nigeria to sustain a positive democratic
trajectory,” U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for African
Affairs Johnnie Carson said in April 5  remarks  at the Woodrow
Wilson Center for Scholars.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dulue Mbachu in Abuja at 
 dmbachu@bloomberg.net ;
Elisha Bala-Gbogbo in Abuja at 
 ebalagbogbo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Antony Sguazzin at 
 asguazzin@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  