-- 
Nomura’s Stock-Backed Loans Jump 50% as Japan Quake Spurs Demand for Cash

-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 
2011-04-11T07:11:15Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/nomura-s-stock-backed-loans-jump-50-as-japan-quake-spurs-demand-for-cash.html
Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604) ’s retail
lending surged 50 percent after  Japan ’s record earthquake as
clients of the country’s largest brokerage tapped their
investment portfolios to access cash.  Daily loan transactions jumped to about 150 from 100 and
credit volume also climbed 50 percent as customers sought funds
following the disaster, Naoshi Sakai, an executive director of
Tokyo-based Nomura’s banking and trust agency services unit,
said in an interview.  Nomura aims to expand outstanding loans backed by clients’
investments sevenfold to 200 billion yen ($2.4 billion) in the
next five years, according to two executives who declined to be
identified. The brokerage, which bought some Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. assets in 2008, follows JPMorgan Chase & Co. and
UBS AG in building out both advisory and banking units.  “It’s a niche business: It’s reasonable to see Nomura
strengthening its commercial banking as rival investment banks
in the U.S. and  Europe  are doing the same,” said Shiro Yoshioka, an analyst at Japaninvest Co. in Tokyo. “Japanese
brokerages have good relationships with retail customers, so
it’s natural to invite them to deposit and borrow money.”  The loan service allows borrowers to get credit faster than
they can from retail banks and may encourage them to switch
portfolios from rival brokerages, Sakai said. Shortages of basic
necessities following the quake, as well as fears about nuclear
radiation leaks, closure of local businesses and destruction of
property drove up demand for funds.  ‘Surprised to See’  “Our customers are surprised to see 100 million yen
transferred to their accounts overnight, which is difficult to
do at their main banks,” he said. “This loan works when
investors need cash but are hesitant to sell their shares.”  The nation’s benchmark  Nikkei 225 (NKY)  Stock Average has lost
6.9 percent since March 10, the day before the magnitude-9
temblor and tsunami struck Japan. Noumura closed unchanged at
421 yen at the 3 p.m. close of Tokyo Stock Exchange trading.  The company is targeting retirees, office workers, business
owners and executives who own their company’s shares. Clients
can borrow as much as 50 percent of the market value of Japanese
equities and Nomura has the right to sell the stock if the value
falls below 70 percent of the loan amount.  “It’s a survival instinct: people want to secure liquidity
when they face anxiety in their lives,” said Naoki Iizuka, a
senior economist at Mizuho Securities Co. in Tokyo. “They
realize that they need cash when they see the news on television
and imagine if they were at evacuation centers.”  Loans to Customers  The broker now has about 5,000 accounts managed through its
Nomura Trust & Banking Co. unit and is targeting a loan balance
of about 50 billion yen within a year, the officials said.
Customers borrow between 1 million yen and 2 million yen on
average and can get credit of up to 100 million yen at  2.675
percent  interest, said Sakai.  Daiwa Securities Group Inc. (8601) , Japan’s second-largest
brokerage, has applied to the Financial Services Agency for a
banking license to offer deposit and loan services, the
brokerage said on April 4.  Nomura published color advertisements in newspapers
inviting customers to use their share portfolios to borrow funds
before the quake.  “While your stocks are fast asleep, you can use them to
renovate your bathroom, buy platinum jewelry for your wife,
splash out on a new car, or go back to school,” according to a
Feb. 24 advertisement.  The brokerage, which bought bankrupt Lehman’s Asian and
European assets in 2008, also began the lending business that
year. Nomura got about 57 percent of its revenue from domestic
operations in the three months ended Dec. 31.  “Lending is a side business of stocks and mutual funds,”
Sakai said. “But our loan business is growing.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  