-- 
NYSE Board Backs Deutsche Boerse Takeover, Declining Bid From Nasdaq, ICE

-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 
2011-04-10T21:45:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/nyse-board-backs-deutsche-boerse-takeover-declining-bid-from-nasdaq-ice.html
NYSE Euronext (NYX) ’s board affirmed its
commitment to a merger with  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) , spurning an
unsolicited offer from  Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  and
 IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE)  and setting the stage for a
possible decision by shareholders.  The directors voted unanimously to back NYSE Euronext Chief
Executive Officer  Duncan Niederauer ’s agreement with Frankfurt-
based Deutsche Boerse, saying it will create more long-term
value and has greater odds of winning regulatory approval,
according to a statement released after a meeting in New York.
The board’s response “does not reflect the best interests of
their shareholders,” Nasdaq OMX said.  “Breaking up NYSE Euronext, burdening the pieces with high
levels of debt, and destroying its invaluable human capital,
would be a strategic mistake in terms of where the global
markets are going, and is clearly not in the best interests of
our shareholders,” the NYSE Euronext board said in today’s
statement. “The highly conditional breakup proposal from
Nasdaq/ICE would also require shareholders to shoulder
unacceptable execution risk.”  Going to Shareholders  Failing to win the board’s endorsement means Nasdaq OMX may
have to take its case for a takeover to NYSE shareholders, who
will be asked to approve the  Deutsche Boerse  merger. That
proposal calls for Deutsche Boerse to combine its  futures
markets  with New York-based NYSE Euronext’s. New York-based
Nasdaq OMX’s offer, which is worth 16 percent more than its
rival’s and is funded in part with debt, calls for selling the
NYSE Liffe futures business to Atlanta-based ICE.  Deutsche Boerse agreed to acquire the New York Stock
Exchange owner on Feb. 15 for stock worth $9.53 billion at the
time, helping propel a wave of exchange consolidation that has
seen about $20 billion of deals announced in less than six
months. The value of the company’s offer, which Niederauer calls
a “merger of equals,” has risen to $9.68 billion, or $37.06 a
share. The combination “will create compelling value for
shareholders of both companies,” Deutsche Boerse said in an e-
mailed statement today.  The NYSE Euronext board called the $11.3 billion offer from
 Nasdaq  OMX and ICE “highly conditional” and said it would result
in layoffs. Frank De Maria, a spokesman for Nasdaq OMX, said in
an e-mail that “we are not surprised, but are disappointed at a
response that clearly does not reflect the best interests of
their shareholders.” Kelly Loeffler, an ICE spokeswoman, didn’t
return an e-mail and telephone call seeking comment.  Stock, Cash  Nasdaq OMX and ICE, the second-largest U.S. futures market,
made a rival offer for NYSE Euronext on April 1. The unsolicited
bid is 16 percent higher at $43.13 a share and includes $14.24 a
share in cash. NYSE Euronext directors held a telephone briefing
the day it was announced and no decision was made then,
according to a filing last week. Niederauer told employees the
day of the joint bid that while he would study it, the company
was “fully committed” to the previous agreement.  In citing its concern about regulatory clearance, NYSE
Euronext directors signaled they believe the U.S. government is
more likely to object to the monopoly in company listings
created by Nasdaq OMX buying NYSE Euronext’s U.S. operations
than they are allowing the Big Board to fall under foreign
control. Nasdaq CEO  Robert Greifeld  has said he is confident his
offer would gain antitrust approval.  Regulatory Approval  “While there may be antitrust concerns, in the past, the
regulators have really not blocked deals like this,” said
Herbie Skeete, a London-based managing director at exchange
adviser Mondo Visione Ltd. who says the Deutsche Boerse merger
is a better value for shareholders. “Nasdaq is going to come
back in some way. They are not going to take this lying down.”  The Deutsche Boerse all-stock agreement, which carries a
250 million euro ($362 million) breakup fee, would combine the
two companies to create the world’s largest exchange operator,
with executives focusing on growing earnings through derivatives
and technology operations. The Nasdaq OMX-ICE bid would break up
NYSE Euronext, giving Atlanta-based ICE the Liffe derivatives
markets and Nasdaq OMX the listings, equities and options
businesses, saving costs on overlapping units and technologies.  “We don’t believe that NYSE Euronext shareholders would
accept the current Deutsche Boerse bid on the table over the
Nasdaq ICE offer, though it is early days,” Niamh Alexander, an
analyst at Keefe Bruyette & Woods, wrote in an April 5 note to
investors. “We believe that if NYSE looks to proceed with the
Deutsche Boerse offer to vote that Nasdaq and ICE could launch a
simultaneous hostile tender offer for shares though neither have
confirmed their intentions here yet.”  Five Months  Deutsche Boerse and NYSE Euronext took almost five months
to reach the agreement after first signing a confidentiality
agreement on Sept. 22, according to a regulatory filing last
week. The exchanges held unsuccessful talks in the last quarter
of 2008 and started negotiations again in August 2010 before
signing the confidentiality agreement the next month, according
to the filing. The boards reached an accord on Jan. 17 and the
companies announced the terms of the deal on Feb. 15.  Deutsche Boerse owns the Frankfurt stock exchange and is
part-owner of Eurex,  Europe ’s largest futures market. Eurex
bought New York-based International Securities Exchange Holdings
Inc. in 2007. Deutsche Boerse also owns Clearstream, the
region’s second-largest securities-settlement company, as well
as Eurex Clearing.  Belgium, Portugal  NYSE Euronext’s divisions include the  New York  Stock
Exchange, the Euronext platform that handles shares in the
Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal and  France , and the European
derivatives platform known as NYSE Liffe.  Combining NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse would create an
exchange company with operations in 11 countries generating 5.6
billion euros in sales and 869 million euros in earnings
annually. Earnings before interest and taxes for the combined
exchange would have been 1.1 billion euros for the year ending
Dec. 31. The combination will lead to 300 million euros in cost
cuts within three years of the deal.  Greifeld says his plan to purchase NYSE Euronext offers
$300 million more in cost savings than Deutsche Boerse’s
proposal. Nasdaq OMX, the second-largest U.S. bourse operator,
and ICE say they will generate about $740 million in expense
cuts and synergies in three years. Niederauer said in an
interview today that Deutsche Boerse and NYSE are likely to
boost their cost-savings estimate.  ‘Guilty as Charged’  “Give us two or three weeks, but I would imagine that we’ll
be articulating that those synergies were in fact conservative,”
Niederauer said. “We’re from the under-promise, over-deliver
school, so guilty as charged.”  Nasdaq OMX had been left out of exchange mergers since
October, when  Singapore Exchange Ltd. (SGX)  offered A$8.35 billion
($8.82 billion) for Sydney-based  ASX Ltd. (ASX)  In addition to the
Deutsche Boerse offer in February,  London Stock Exchange Group
Plc (LSE)  said that month that it would buy Canada’s  TMX Group Inc. (X) 
The ASX deal was blocked by the Australian government last week.  Greifeld offered about $2.8 billion in stock and $2.1
billion in cash and said Nasdaq OMX would  assume  $2.1 billion in
NYSE Euronext debt in exchange for NYSE’s U.S. listings, equity
and options businesses. ICE, based in Atlanta, offered $4.7
billion of its stock and $1.7 billion in cash, assuming no NYSE
Euronext debt, for a total of about $6.3 billion for the Liffe
futures unit.  Sweden, Iceland  Nasdaq OMX owns 12 equity and options markets in the U.S.
and Europe including the Nasdaq Stock Market, Nasdaq Options
Market and venues in Sweden, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Estonia,
Latvia and Lithuania.  With the Liffe futures markets, ICE would catapult to
fourth from 14th in terms of global trading volume. ICE
specializes in energy and commodities trading, with its only
offering in financial products coming from currencies and equity
indexes at its New York-based ICE Futures U.S. exchange. It
produced $1.15 billion in revenue last year, with net income at
35 percent of that total.  CME Group Inc. (CME)  of  Chicago  is its
bigger rival.  While ICE already handles commodity contracts in Europe,
buying NYSE Liffe would give it financial futures such as
Euribor three-month contracts, which are similar to Eurodollars
that track short-term  interest rates . Liffe U.K. also offers
futures trades on bonds. Eurodollars traded at CME, the world’s
largest futures market, were the most-actively bought and sold
interest-rate future in 2010, according to the Futures Industry
Association.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net ;
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net . 