-- 
Obama to Announce Specific Plans for Cutting U.S. Deficit, Plouffe Says

-- B y   E l l i o t   B l a i r   S m i t h   a n d   M e e r a   L o u i s
-- 
2011-04-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/obama-to-propose-specific-long-term-plan-to-reduce-deficit-plouffe-says.html
President  Barack Obama  will
announce long-term proposals this week for cutting the federal
deficit, following up on the budget deal he reached with
congressional leaders that averted a government shutdown, White
House adviser  David Plouffe  said.  The president will set specific deficit-reduction targets
and a timeline for reaching them, Plouffe said on CNN’s “State
of the Union.” Obama will use a “scalpel, not a machete” and
take a “balanced approach,” Plouffe said on “Fox News
Sunday.” The president will address the nation on April 13, an
administration official said.  The tense negotiations between Obama and congressional
leaders that produced a last-minute deal two nights ago to keep
the government operating underscored the difficulties to come.
Within weeks, the government may be forced to increase the $14.3
trillion federal debt ceiling to ensure the U.S. will meet its
financial obligations. Republicans said they will demand major
concessions on spending before agreeing to raise the debt limit.  House Majority Leader Eric Cantor, a Virginia Republican,
said on “Fox News Sunday” that Republicans will demand
guarantees on cutting entitlement spending. The American people
“don’t want spending to spiral out of control,” he said.  He also questioned Obama’s sincerity as a budget cutter.
“For the past two months, we have had to bring this president
kicking and screaming” to accept spending cuts, he said.  A Second Recession  A failure to raise the debt limit “will spin us into a
second recession,” Democratic Senator  Dick Durbin  of  Illinois 
said on CNN. Senator  Charles Schumer , a New York Democrat, said
yesterday on CBS’s “Face the Nation” that failing to raise the
debt ceiling would be “playing with fire that could actually
have the credit markets stop taking  U.S. debt .”  Republican Representative  Jeb Hensarling  of  Texas , on CNN,
emphasized the need for spending cuts over increased borrowing.  “At some point, you just got to quit spending money you
don’t have,” he said. “I do not want America to default on its
debt. But the president is going to have to start the process of
cutting up the credit cards, pure and simple.”  Plouffe said Obama in his speech this week will address the
need to control entitlement spending on such programs as
Medicare and Medicaid that provide health care for millions of
Americans. The Democratic president also will renew his call for
higher taxes for the wealthy that were lowered when Republican
President  George W. Bush  was in office and preserved through
2012 under a congressional compromise under Obama.  Trillion-Dollar Tax Cut  Obama believes “a trillion-dollar” tax cut for those
making more than $250,000 a year is unacceptable, Plouffe said.
Upper-income Americans “need to contribute to the deficit
reduction in this country,” he said.  As for the debt limit, Plouffe said, “We should not be
playing brinksmanship with full faith and credit of the  United
States .”  Details of the budget compromise for 2011 will be released
to the public tomorrow, Schumer said on CBS. “The cuts are
across the board,” he said.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ann Hughey at 
 ahughey@bloomberg.net  