-- 
Obama Girds for Next Struggle With Republicans Over Raising Debt Limit

-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 
2011-04-10T22:35:19Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/obama-girds-for-tough-debt-limit-battle-with-republicans-after-budget-deal.html
The struggle last week to avert a
government shutdown may be little more than the warm-up for a
much bigger battle in coming months over raising the debt limit.  The U.S. government is projected to slam into the $14.3
trillion legal cap on  government borrowing  sometime this spring.
As the price of their vote to allow the government to go further
into debt, congressional Republicans are demanding far deeper
cuts than the $38 billion they got last week in the deal to fund
the government for the last six months of the 2011 fiscal year.  Failing to raise the debt ceiling would have much more dire
consequences than a shutdown, with Treasury Secretary  Timothy Geithner  predicting last week that it would “call into question
the willingness of the government of the  United States  to meet
its obligations,” and “shake the basic foundations of the
entire global financial system.”  That is why Republicans see the vote as their best chance
this year to force President  Barack Obama  to accept dramatic
reductions in the federal budget, this time perhaps measured in
trillions, rather than billions.  “I can tell you this: There will not be an increase in the
debt limit without something really, really big attached to
it,” House Speaker  John Boehner , an Ohio Republican, said at an
April 9 fundraiser in  Connecticut .  Obama Plan  The Obama administration, which omitted plans for tackling
the long-term deficit from its budget plan released just eight
weeks ago, is now reversing course, promising to outline a plan
this week for putting the government’s books in order. The
president will address the nation April 13, an administration
official said yesterday.  Obama will propose changes in Medicare and Medicaid as well
as taxes and perhaps additional defense spending cuts, senior
adviser  David Plouffe  said in interviews as he made the rounds
of Sunday morning television talk shows in the wake of the fight
over the funding for the remainder of this fiscal year.  The president will “lay out his approach this week in
terms of the scale of debt reduction he thinks the country needs
so we can grow economically and win the future, a balanced
approach,” Plouffe said on Fox News Sunday. Obama, he said,
will use a “scalpel, not a machete.”  Lawmakers can’t avoid raising the debt limit by simply
cutting spending, Geithner warned last week in a letter to
lawmakers. With the public debt growing by an average of $125
billion per month, Congress would have to cut $700 billion from
this year alone, which would mean, for example, eliminating all
discretionary spending.  ‘Massive Shock’  Cutting that much, that soon would be a “massive shock”
to the economy,  Mark Zandi , chief economist at Moody’s Analytics
Inc. in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in an interview. “I
don’t think there would be any question” that would tip the
economy back into recession.  Lawmakers won’t have much time to work out an agreement.
The government will hit the debt cap by May 16, according to the
Treasury Department. After that, the government will be able use
a number of accounting moves and other steps to stave off
default, Treasury said, though by around July 8, it will be out
of options.  Failing to raise the cap would reverberate throughout the
economy, pushing up borrowing costs for the government as well
as individuals and businesses, the administration says.  ‘National-Security Interests’  Congress needs to raise the limit to maintain vital
services and avoid “questions about our ability to defend our
national security interests,” Geithner said in his letter to
lawmakers. The U.S. would face sharply higher  interest rates  and
would have to stop or delay payments to the military, retirees
and others, he said.  “Default would cause a financial crisis potentially more
severe than the crisis from which we are only now starting to
recover,” he said.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  Chief Executive Officer  Jamie Dimon 
said March 30 that companies, insurance funds and investors
would lose access to markets if the U.S. appears to be headed
toward a default related to its debt limit.  “If the United States actually defaults on our debt it
would be catastrophic,” Dimon, 55, said at a U.S. Chamber of
Commerce event in Washington.  Tea Party Promises  Votes to raise the debt limit are always difficult for
lawmakers because their support for such measures makes it easy
for their opponents to paint them as profligate spenders in
campaign commercials. This year’s vote promises to be especially
tricky with scores of Tea Party-backed freshmen, elected on
promises to slash spending, who backed Boehner’s compromise last
week on the promise that the debt limit would give them an
opportunity to make a much bigger dent in the $1.4 trillion
deficit.  What’s more, while neither the administration nor lawmakers
have said by how much they would like to raise the cap, it will
probably need to be increased by more than $1 trillion to
accommodate borrowing through next year’s elections, which may
leave some lawmakers with sticker shock.  Senator  Charles Schumer  of  New York , the chamber’s third-
ranking Democrat, warned yesterday against a repeat of last
week’s brinksmanship over spending.  “Boehner had to keep these negotiations going until the
last minute to show the Tea Party people he was doing everything
he could,” Schumer said yesterday on CBS’s ‘Face the Nation.’
“You cannot do that with the debt ceiling -- that is playing
with fire because if the markets believe we are not going to pay
our debts, it could be a formula for recession.”  Bond Yields  For now, financial markets are giving lawmakers room to
act. Bond yields are lower than when the government was running
a  budget surplus  a decade ago even as Treasury Department data
show that the amount of marketable debt outstanding has risen to
$9.13 trillion from $4.34 trillion in mid-2007.  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield was at 3.58
percent on April 8, below the average of 7 percent since 1980.  Similarly, derivatives tied to government debt show
investors’ perceptions of America’s creditworthiness are
improving. Credit-default swaps on Treasuries stood 41.12 basis
points as of late April 8 in New York, according to data
provider CMA Datavision. The swaps are down from this year’s
high of 51.5 basis points on Jan. 27 and last year’s high of
59.7 in February.  Borrowing Costs  Low borrowing costs mean the U.S. is spending less to
service its debt as a percentage of gross domestic product.
Interest expense fell to 2.7 percent of GDP in fiscal 2010 from
3.8 percent in 2001, when the U.S. had a budget surplus,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Still, interest payments on the federal debt will more than
quadruple in the next decade, with projected costs topping the
Pentagon’s 2017 budget of $622 billion, according to the
 Congressional Budget Office .  Though Republicans aren’t saying yet what exactly they will
demand for their debt-limit votes, a number have begun offering
ideas. All 47 Senate Republicans have endorsed a balanced budget
amendment to the Constitution.  House Republicans , meanwhile, are
slated to vote this week on Budget Committee Chairman Paul Ryan’s plan to cut $6 trillion over the next decade, a proposal
he’s said offers a menu of possible items to attach to a debt-
limit hike. His plan also calls for tax cuts while the
administration has proposed more than $1 trillion in tax
increases.  Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky
Republican, laid down his marker April 8, after Congress
narrowly avoided a government shutdown.  “In order to raise the debt ceiling, we need to do
something significant about the debt,” he said. “My definition
of significant is that the markets view it as significant, the
American people view it as significant and foreign countries
view it as significant.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in  Washington  at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  