-- 
Pimco Total Return Cuts Government-Related to Negative, Boosts Cash Assets

-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 
2011-04-11T07:34:18Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/pimco-total-return-cuts-government-related-to-negative-boosts-cash-assets.html
Bill Gross , who runs the world’s
biggest bond fund at Pacific Investment Management Co., bet
against U.S. government-related debt last month and boosted cash
to be the largest of the Total Return Fund’s holdings.  Pimco’s $236 billion fund had minus 3 percent of its assets
in government and related debt, after reducing the position to
zero in February, the  Newport Beach , California-based company
said on its website. Cash and equivalents rose to 31 percent
from 23 percent, making it the largest component for the first
time in four years.  Gross has said he is concerned about what will happen when
the  Federal Reserve  stops  buying  Treasuries, after the
securities fell for a second quarter. The central bank
implemented a plan in November to purchase $600 billion of debt
by June 30 to sustain the economic expansion.  “Their objective obviously is to improve the economy and
to create jobs, but also to put a floor under the stock market,
and we know that’s working,” Gross said April 1 in a radio
interview on “Bloomberg Surveillance” hosted by  Tom Keene .
“The question remains, when the Fed stops buying Treasuries,
does the private sector take the baton and run the last leg of
the relay race?”  Cutting Mortgages  Gross lowered mortgage-related debt to 28 percent from 34
percent, according to the website. Investment-grade bonds
comprised 18 percent of the fund’s holdings, unchanged from
February, the figures showed.  Treasuries fell today, extending a three-week decline, as
economists said three government reports this week will show
inflation is quickening. The securities handed investors a 2.8
percent loss in the six months ended March 31, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch’s Treasury Master index. The MSCI All
Country World Index of stocks returned 14 percent in the period.  Longer-maturity bonds, those most sensitive to costs in the
economy, are suffering the steepest declines. They also slid as
the U.S. prepared to sell $32 billion of 3-year notes, $21
billion of 10-year debt and $13 billion of 30-year bonds in
three daily auctions beginning tomorrow.  Ten-year Treasury yields increased two basis points to 3.60
percent as of 8:33 a.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader. The 3.625 percent note maturing in February 2021
declined 5/32, or $1.56 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 6/32  Cost of Living  The Labor Department on April 15 will say the cost of
living index rose 0.5 percent last month from February and was
up 2.6 percent from March 2010, according to a Bloomberg News
survey. Core prices, which exclude volatile food and fuel,
climbed 0.2 percent for a third month.  Labor Department figures earlier in the week will show
wholesale prices and the cost of goods imported into the U.S.
also climbed. So-called producer prices rose 1 percent in March,
while import prices increased 2.2 percent, surveys show.  The Total Return Fund appreciated 7.3 percent in the past
year, beating 84 percent of its peers, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Pimco is a unit of the Munich-based
insurer  Allianz SE .  Treasuries “have little value,” Gross wrote in his April
 investment outlook  on the company’s website.  The Total Return Fund can have a so-called negative
position by using derivatives, futures or by shorting. Shorting
is borrowing and selling an asset in anticipation of making a
profit by buying it back after its price has fallen.  Government-related debt refers to sovereign bonds, Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, agency bonds, interest rate
swaps, Treasury futures and options and corporate securities
guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., according to
Pimco.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Garfield Reynolds in Sydney at 
 greynolds1@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in  Singapore  at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net . 