-- 
Retail Sales in U.S. Probably Rose as Job Gains Overcame Surge in Gasoline

-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 
2011-04-10T15:25:14Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/retail-sales-in-u-s-probably-rose-as-job-gains-overcame-surge-in-gasoline.html
U.S. retail sales probably climbed
in March, indicating an improving labor market is helping
Americans cope with rising gasoline prices, economists said
before a report this week.  A 0.5 percent gain would follow a 1 percent increase in
February, according to the median forecast in a Bloomberg News
survey ahead of Commerce Department figures April 13. Data this
week on consumer and producer prices will probably show food and
energy costs rose.  Macy’s Inc. (M)  and  Saks Inc. (SKS)  are among retailers helped by a
declining jobless rate and this year’s cut in payroll taxes. At
the same time, bigger fuel and grocery bills are squeezing
household budgets and eroding confidence, underscoring forecasts
consumer spending cooled in the first quarter.  “Job growth is strengthening, which will be the main
driver of spending,” said  Sal Guatieri , a senior economist at
BMO Capital Markets in Toronto. Nonetheless, “we’ve got higher
fuel and food costs, and house prices are still falling.”  Higher gasoline prices probably contributed to the forecast
gain in retail sales, which include purchases at filling
stations and aren’t adjusted for inflation. Regular fuel jumped
to $3.74 a gallon on April 7, the highest since September 2008,
according to AAA, the nation’s biggest motoring organization.  Industry reports last week showed stores fared better than
forecast. Retailers’ same-store sales rose 2.2 percent from
March 2010, while the average projection was for a 0.5 percent
drop, according to Retail Metrics Inc. Chains weathered a later
Easter. In 2010, the holiday had pulled sales into March when it
occurred on April 4, 20 days earlier than this year.  Topping Estimates  Cincinnati-based Macy’s, the second-largest U.S.
department-store chain, reported an increase in sales, while
analysts projected a decline. Luxury retailers Saks,  Nordstrom
Inc. (JWN)  and Neiman Marcus Group Inc. also topped estimates.  The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite Retailing Index has
risen 3.8 percent this year through April 8, while the broader
 S&P 500  advanced 5.6 percent.  The Commerce Department may also report that sales
excluding automobiles and service stations rose 0.4 percent in
March after a 0.6 percent gain the prior month, economists said.  Industrywide light-vehicle sales ran at a seasonally
adjusted annual rate of 13.1 million in March, after 13.4
million the prior month, according to researcher Autodata Corp.
Sales jumped 16 percent at Ford Motor Co., based in Dearborn,
 Michigan , outpacing Detroit-based General Motors Co.’s 9.6
percent gain.  ‘Solid’ Progress  “We continue to see good, solid signs of progress despite
some of the challenges,”  Don Johnson , GM’s vice president of
U.S. sales operations, said on an April 1 conference call. “A
recovering job market is going to be the most important factor
for the  U.S. economy  at this stage, and we do anticipate that
this is going to continue to improve.”  The economy created 216,000 jobs last month, the most since
May 2010, the Labor Department said April 1. The jobless rate
fell for a fourth straight month, to a two-year low of 8.8
percent.  The Labor Department on April 15 may report that the cost
of living index rose 0.5 percent last month from February and
was up 2.6 percent from March 2010, according to the Bloomberg
survey median. Core prices, which exclude volatile food and fuel,
likely rose 0.2 percent for a third consecutive month.  Labor Department figures earlier in the week may show
wholesale prices and the cost of goods imported into the U.S.
also climbed. So-called producer prices probably rose 1 percent
in March, while import prices increased 2.2 percent.  Fed’s View  Federal Reserve officials noted at their March 15 meeting
that the job market was improving and the 2011 cut in payroll
taxes was boosting after-tax incomes. Still, falling  house
prices  remained a drag on wealth, and higher oil and gasoline
costs reduced purchasing power and weighed on  consumer
confidence , they said.  “While participants expected that household spending would
continue to expand, the pace of expansion was uncertain,”
policy makers said in minutes of the meeting released April 5.
“Economic growth would strengthen over coming quarters while
remaining moderate.” They also said the effects on inflation of
the run-up in commodity prices “would prove transitory.”  The Fed’s Beige Book survey, due April 13, may reinforce
the outlook for growth and inflation.  Manufacturing continues to lead the recovery, helped by an
expanding global economy. Faster-growing markets such as  China 
lifted demand for U.S.-made goods, helping to trim the trade
deficit in February, the Commerce Department may report on April
12. The gap between exports and imports shrank to $44 billion
from $46.3 billion in January, according to the Bloomberg survey
median.  Also this week, Fed data may show industrial production
rebounded in March, according to the Bloomberg survey.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  