-- 
Rousseff Wants China Buying More Than Soybeans, Vale’s Iron Ore

-- B y   A n d r e   S o l i a n i   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 
2011-04-10T16:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/rousseff-wants-china-buying-more-than-soybeans-vale-s-iron-ore.html
Brazilian President  Dilma Rousseff 
plans to pressure Chinese officials to buy more than  Vale SA (VALE5) ’s
 iron ore  from Latin America’s biggest economy when her first
visit as head of state begins in Beijing today.  Rousseff is scheduled to meet with President Hu Jintao
tomorrow and attend the summit of the so-called BRIC nations on
April 14. She has been more outspoken than her predecessor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva , on trade and currency issues between
Brazil and the country that is both its top commercial partner
and a trade rival.  Demand for raw materials from the world’s second-largest
economy has helped fuel Brazil’s fastest expansion in more than
two decades. At the same time, a flood of imports from the Asian
country is hurting Brazilian manufacturers as the real has
appreciated 41 percent against the yuan since the end of 2008,
more than any major currency except the Australian dollar.  “Brazil needs  China  as much as China needs Brazil,” said
Sergio Amaral, former trade minister and head of the Rio de
Janeiro-based China-Brazil Business Council. “But we need to
iron out distortions in the trade relationship, in which Brazil
sells commodities and China manufactures. Dilma’s visit is a
great opportunity.”  Raw materials, led by iron ore and soybeans, accounted for
83.7 percent of Brazil’s sales to China in 2010, up from 68.2
percent in 2000, according to Brazilian Trade Ministry figures.
China overtook the U.S. as Brazil’s top trading partner in 2009,
as Chinese exports to the South American nation rose to $25.6
billion in 2010 from $1.2 billion in 2000, and Brazilian sales
to China climbed to $30.8 billion from $1.1 billion in the same
period, according to the ministry.  Trade Surplus   Brazil’s $5.2 billion trade surplus with China last year
was due to the soaring volume and prices of commodities.
Brazilian exports of iron ore to China last year rose to 153
million tons, worth $13.2 billion, from 59 million tons worth
$1.8 billion in 2005. Ore prices have almost tripled in the past
two years, to $181 per ton, according to Business Briefing
Commodities Research. Meanwhile, 98 percent of China’s sales to
Brazil are manufactured goods, according to Brazil´s Trade
Ministry.  Rousseff, 63, wants to diversify exports to China to
include more airplanes, processed food, and other value-added
goods, her spokesman, Rodrigo Baena, told reporters in Brasilia
April 5. She will be accompanied to China by 309 business
leaders including  Eike Batista , the billionaire owner of Rio de
Janeiro-based OGX Petroleo e Gas Participacoes.  “China’s market is open, China welcomes more Brazilian
products, especially high-value added products,” China’s
Foreign Ministry said in a faxed response to a request for
comment.  Agnelli Criticism  The government’s push to expand exports of processed goods
spawned criticism of Vale Chief Executive Officer  Roger Agnelli ,
who was ousted earlier this month. Lula urged Agnelli in 2009 to
invest more in steelworks, and Rousseff objected to Rio de
Janeiro-based Vale’s focus on selling raw materials when she was
Lula’s chief of staff. The government holds indirect and direct
stakes in the world’s largest iron ore producer, which on April
4 said Agnelli will be replaced by Murilo Pinto de Oliveira
Ferreira on May 22.  At the third annual summit of the so-called BRIC nations --
an acronym invented in 2001 by  Jim O’Neill , chairman of Goldman
Sachs Asset Management, to refer to Brazil,  Russia ,  India  and
China -- leaders will discuss “economic, financial and
commercial” matters, according to the Brazilian Foreign
Ministry.  South Africa  will attend the summit as a new member of
the group.  Embraer License  At the top of Rousseff’s agenda in Beijing will be talks to
end restrictions on  Embraer SA (EMBR3) ’s plans to expand sales in China
beyond its 50-seat ERJ 145 jet, Mauricio Mesquita Moreira, the
Inter-American Development Bank’s chief trade economist, said in
a phone interview from  Washington .  The Chinese government hasn’t granted Embraer, the world’s
fourth-largest airplane maker, a license to produce its newer
and more competitive airplanes at its Harbin plant in China,
Moreira said. Embraer, based in Sao Jose dos Campos, has had a
joint venture with Aviation Industry Corporation of China since
2003.  “We’re working to get a decision from the Chinese, ideally
during the president’s visit,” said Maria Edileuza Fontenele
Reis, Brazil’s undersecretary of political affairs for  Asia .  Rousseff’s prospects for opening Chinese trade doors may be
hurt by a stance inherited from her predecessor: Lula’s failure
to fulfill a 2004 pledge to recognize the world’s most populous
nation as a market economy under rules of the Geneva-based  World
Trade Organization . Such recognition would limit  Brazil ’s
ability to impose anti-dumping tariffs, former Foreign Affairs
Minister Luiz Felipe Lampreia said.  Anti-Dumping Measures  “The Chinese are resentful,” Lampreia said in a phone
interview from  Rio de Janeiro .  Complaints from Brazilian unions and industry groups,
including toymakers and textile producers, have led the
government to enact 29 anti-dumping measures aimed at Chinese-
made goods, more than those against any other country and almost
four times more than directed at the U.S., according to the
Trade Ministry. The measures aim to limit imports on goods the
government believes are being sold below cost. Last week, Brazil
approved higher levies on Chinese-made viscose textiles.  A February survey by Brazil’s  National Industrial
Confederation  showed that one out of four manufacturers face
competition from Chinese goods. In that group, 45 percent lost
market share to Chinese imports, according to the survey of
1,529 companies. Of Brazilian exporters, 67 percent said they
lost foreign clients to China, the survey said.  ‘Cheap Stuff’  Brazil’s General Union of Workers, which represents 5
million workers, urged Rousseff to restrict “cheap stuff”
imported from China, according to an April 6 statement. Brazil´s
state development bank has warned that the surge in Chinese
imports threatens to stymie Brazil´s industrial development.  Rousseff, unlike Lula, has publicly raised the issue of the
yuan’s exchange rate. Shortly after taking office Jan. 1, her
trade minister, Fernando Pimentel, said Brazil would make
China´s currency policy a “priority´´ in bilateral talks. While
the Chinese government abandoned the yuan’s peg to the dollar in
June, and has allowed it to gain about 4 percent since then, the
central bank restricts daily movements in the currency.  To help Brazilian manufacturers, who last year had to
compete with a 61 percent surge in Chinese imports, Rousseff´s
government has intensified efforts to curb gains by the real.
Since March 29, Finance Minister Guido Mantega has changed three
times a tax charged on foreign loans. In October, as Lula´s
finance minister, Mantega tripled to 6 percent a tax charged on
foreigners’ fixed-income purchases.  Growth Rates  China’s economy  will likely expand more than twice as fast
as Brazil’s in 2011. After growing 7.5 percent last year,
economic growth in Brazil is expected to slow to 4 percent this
year, according to central bank estimates. China´s economy,
after posting annual growth of 10.3 percent last year, is
expected to grow 9.6 percent in 2011, according to an April 6
report by the  Asian Development Bank .  Brazil’s Bovespa stock index fell 0.85 percent this year,
while the Shanghai Stock Exchange Composite Index is up 7.9
percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andre Soliani in Brasilia at 
 asoliani@bloomberg.net 
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  