-- 
Royal Wedding Snoopers Marvel at Kate’s Club, Will’s Posh Shops

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-04-10T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/royal-wedding-snoopers-marvel-at-kate-s-club-will-s-posh-shops.html
The April 29 wedding of  Prince William  and  Kate Middleton  is spawning London tours of royal
abodes and favored princely haunts.  Celebrity Planet  -- which also markets yacht rides on the
French Riviera and “Sex and the City” spins around  New York  --
is taking sightseers outside such Will-and-Kate hot spots as the
 Mahiki  club, where the couple has partied, and the offices of
Kate’s great-grandfather Noel, who was a solicitor.  London Walks  charts a more historical path, punctuated with
tales of royal matrimony. The two-hour tour starts at Green
Park, where a hatted woman with a placard shoos visitors down
the steps from the subway station.  On this sunny day in the park, about 50 people gather
around the bubbly Karen Pierce-Goulding, 46, who wears wool
leggings, a rucksack, and sunglasses perched in her hair. The
guide, a former actress, recalls that royal weddings were often
loveless and arranged -- notably that of Will’s parents, Charles
and Diana.  “Prince Charles was still in love with someone else,
wasn’t he?” she frets, pointing to the back of  Spencer House ,
home of Diana’s ancestors. “What a start to a marriage!”  A narrow alley leads to Spencer House’s splendid front.
Across the cul-de-sac is the swank  Dukes Hotel , where the late
Diana had tea on the day her divorce was made public.  Diana’s Ring  This is where Kate’s name comes up; Diana’s engagement ring
has been handed down to her. Its original price tag: some 30,000
pounds ($48,000 at today’s exchange rate). “My goodness me!”
cries our guide, looking askew at the band on her own finger.  I sidle up to Lorraine Young from  Edmonton ,  Canada , here
for a week with her 23-year-old daughter Claire.  “I have four daughters,” says Young, 57, youthfully
outfitted in black denim, designer boots, and an animal-print
scarf. “None of them are getting married right now, so it
seemed like the thing to do: eavesdrop on someone else’s
plans!”  We stop at  Swaine Adeney Brigg , which supplies the royal
equestrian whips, and hear of Kate’s reported allergy to horses
-- an awkward condition, given the family she is marrying into.  Across the street is White’s, Britain’s oldest gentlemen’s
club, where Prince Charles had his stag night.  A few vitrines away is  Lock & Co. , royal hatter since 1676.
As we eye the fedoras, our guide talks fashion, and says betting
shops are taking wagers on the length of Kate’s wedding gown.  Though goaded during her decade-long courtship as “Waity
Katie,” Kate has been “dignified, patient and resourceful, and
never let anything pass,” says Pierce-Goulding.  Waity Katie  That hasn’t stopped a make-up brand from naming their
glittery purple nail polish “ No More Waity Katie .”  “I hope she wears it on her hen night!”  We then travel centuries back in time to St. James’s
Palace, where royal weddings used to take place “in private, in
secret, and at night: all a bit cloak-and-dagger.”  It’s here, in 1795, that the future George IV married the
socially inept and “smelly” Caroline of Brunswick. They were
so mismatched, he later locked her out of his coronation.  The palace was built by Henry VIII, who married more times
than any king, and who got engaged to Anne of Cleves not having
seen her. “Henry was horrified,” says Pierce-Goulding. “He
named her his Flanders mare. There’s something to be said for
meeting your future wife before!” As if on cue, palace guards
in belted coats and furry hats click their heels.  Commoner Kate  I catch up with retired schoolteacher Julia Fine, 70, who
wears sensible walking shoes and a blue fleece. The self-
described royalist thinks Kate is “doing excellently well, I
must say,” and the fact that she’s a commoner is “a step
forward in our history.”  Fine’s stepchildren in  Germany  “think it’s all rubbish,
our royal family, and costing us all this money.” Yet she’d be
“sorry to see them go.” Why? “Pomp, tradition, spectacle,”
she replies. “We’re traditionalists in this country.”  We pitch up outside  Buckingham Palace , where a flapping
royal standard indicates that  Queen Elizabeth II  is in residence
“and just about to have tea,” according to our guide. We hear
of the Queen’s own 1947 wedding, when fabric rationing led
ordinary women to send in clothing coupons for the royal gown.  In the tour group is Nancy Murray, 52, a nutrition and
finance consultant from Denver, who reports that Americans are
so gripped by the royal wedding, her cousin has asked for a
souvenir mug.  Why? U.S. President  Barack Obama ’s daughters “are too
young to be doing that,” she says. Americans may consider
themselves “more democratic and we’re-all-the-same,” but they
do like a fairy tale, she says.  As the tour wraps up, I ask our guide where she’ll be on
the big day. Her unexpected confession: “I might be really
boring and stay home!”  London Walk’s tour takes place at 2 p.m. on Mondays, and
costs 8 pounds. No need to book. There are additional tours at
2:30 p.m. on Sunday April 24 and Thursday April 28 -- the day
before the royal wedding. The walks leave from Green Park tube
station. Information:  http://www.walks.com .  Celebrity Planet’s walks (15 pounds a ticket) happen on
Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays at 12 p.m. with advance bookings
only. The meeting point is 17 Bruton Street,  London  W1J 6QB,
near Green Park tube station. Information:
 http://www.thecelebrityplanet.com/london/ .  To contact the writer on this story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 Farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 