-- 
Vettel Wins in Malaysia for Perfect Start to His Formula One Title Defense

-- B y   D a n   B a y n e s
-- 
2011-04-10T16:19:39Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/sebastian-vettel-wins-malaysian-formula-one-grand-prix-ahead-of-button.html
Sebastian Vettel won the Malaysian
Grand Prix to maintain a perfect start to his Formula One world
title defense and lift his winning streak to four races.  Red Bull’s Vettel followed his triumph in the season opener
in  Australia  two weeks ago by finishing 3.2 seconds ahead of
McLaren’s Jenson Button at the Sepang circuit yesterday. Nick Heidfeld was third for Lotus Renault ahead of  Mark Webber  in the
second Red Bull.  Vettel stayed clear of his rivals to secure his 12th career
win, giving him the maximum 50 points from the first two races
of the 2011 championship. The 23-year-old German has now won
five of the past six races after ending the 2010 season with two
victories.  “I couldn’t be happier at the moment,” Vettel told a
televised news conference. “We now have to take the momentum
into the next race. It’s two out of two, which is perfect, but
we have to keep our feet on the ground.”  Vettel has a 24-point lead over Button atop the drivers’
standings with McLaren’s Lewis Hamilton and Webber on 22 points.
Hamilton finished seventh yesterday, though later dropped a
place after he and  Fernando Alonso  had a 20-second penalty added
to their times following a late collision.  Red Bull moved further ahead in the constructors’
championship with 72 points. McLaren has 48, Ferrari 36 and
Lotus Renault 30.  The teams will be back on track in four days’ time for
opening practice for the Chinese Grand Prix. The race is
scheduled for April 17 in  Shanghai .  ‘Keep Cool’  “It’s been close here, so we need to keep cool and keep
pushing,” Vettel added. “The guys know this is the way
forward, so I’m not worried.”  Felipe Massa  finished fifth yesterday ahead of Ferrari
teammate Alonso, who retained sixth place even after his
penalty. Sauber’s Kamui Kobayashi was promoted to seventh, with
Mercedes’s  Michael Schumacher  and Force  India ’s Paul di Resta
taking the final two point-scoring positions in ninth and 10th.  Williams duo Rubens Barrichello and Pastor Maldonado were
among seven of the 24 drivers to retire from the race.  Vettel made a clean getaway after starting from pole
position. He led for all but two of the 56 laps, when he gave up
the lead during the first two of his three pit stops, and kept
Button at bay even though he was unable to use the KERS power-
boosting system from the 29th lap.  Red Bull Team Principal Christian Horner praised Vettel’s
coolness and the “mature manner” in which he controlled a race
that featured 59 pit stops and intermittent rain.  ‘Just Learning’  “We forget that he is only 23 years of age, he can only
just hire a hire car,” Horner said. “So he is in his 60-
something Grand Prix and he is just learning, gaining more
experience and just continues to get better.”  With Vettel again dominant, 2009 world champion Button
finished at the head of the chasing pack for his best placing
since coming second at the Italian Grand Prix last September.  “This has been an extremely encouraging weekend,” Button
said. “In the closing laps, the team told me to take it easy on
the tires, but I chased down Sebastian as much as I could all
the same. It still wasn’t quite enough.”  Heidfeld took his first podium place since the 2009
Malaysian Grand Prix, while Webber worked his way back to fourth
place after dropping to 10th from third at the start.  Two-time world champion Alonso damaged his Ferrari in a
late charge for a top-three finish when he collided with the
rear of Hamilton’s McLaren, suffering a broken front wing that
required a pit stop.  Penalties  Hamilton was later  penalized  by the race stewards for
making more than one change of direction as he tried to defend
his position, while Alonso received the same penalty for his
part in their collision.  Hamilton, the 2008 series champion, had looked set for a
podium place before a slow pit stop and worn tires stalled him
over the closing laps of the race.  “Today wasn’t the greatest of days,” Hamilton said in a
team statement. “We just have to take it on the chin and move
on from it. I’m going to  China  aiming to win; I’m only looking
forwards.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dan Baynes in Sydney at 
 dbaynes@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  