-- 
Sentance Says Markets Signal BOE Benchmark Rate Increasing to 2% Next Year

-- B y   C r a i g   S t i r l i n g
-- 
2011-04-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/sentance-says-yields-signal-boe-rate-will-rise-to-2-in-2012.html
Bank of England policy maker  Andrew Sentance  signalled he voted for a half-point U.K. interest-rate
increase again last week and said that financial markets suggest
benchmark borrowing costs could reach 2 percent next year.  “You can look at what the City is expecting, what the
financial markets are expecting, to get a guide” about interest
rates, Sentance told Sky News yesterday. “Along with the rest
of the Monetary Policy Committee, I believe in taking it one
month at a time” though “the yield curve suggests getting up
to somewhere round about 2 percent next year.”  With economists predicting that a government report
tomorrow will show inflation stayed at the highest level in
almost 2 1/2 years in March, Sentance said the bank must act to
avoid losing control of consumer prices. He signaled that he
kept up his vote for a third month to double the benchmark rate,
currently 0.5 percent, against the majority of the committee
that maintained it at a record low.  “I have argued in public that half a percent interest rate
rise is justified and I still think that that’s the case,”
Sentance said. “We need to begin to adjust interest rates in a
gradual way,” he added. “I’m not sure I’m swimming against the
tide because the balance of opinion has been shifting in that
direction.”  The  Bank of England  kept its rate unchanged on April 7, as
forecast by all 57 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News.
Minutes showing how policy makers voted in the decision will be
released April 20.  Inflation Data  Consumer prices rose 4.4 percent in March from a year
earlier, matching the gain recorded in February, according to
the median forecast of 30 economists in a Bloomberg News survey.
The  Office for National Statistics  will publish the data
tomorrow at 9:30 a.m. in London.  “It’s creating difficulty for people in terms of rising
food and energy prices and it’s creating a lot more concern in
the media, and so you can actually observe that,” Sentance
said. “If we continue to have higher headline inflation we are
going to see this upward drift in pay increases continue.”  While the government’s increase in value-added tax on sales
will have a “temporary” effect on prices, other factors coming
from the global economy may not subside quickly and raising
 interest rates  would help to address that, he said.  ‘Upward Move’  “It’s possible that a rise in interest rates does exert
some upward pressure on the pound,” Sentance said. “It’s not
going to take the pound back to the level it was three or four
years ago and we could see some benefit from a gradual upward
move in the pound in the sense that it’s going to reduce some of
the imported inflation measures we’re seeing from oil and
commodity prices.”  The pound rose last week to the strongest against the
dollar since January 2010, advancing 1.4 percent to $1.6337.  Sentance said that the economic recovery is “continuing”
even though it slowed down at the start of the year because of
the sales-tax increase.  “I would expect growth to recover as we go through the
year,” he said. “When interest rates start to move up I don’t
think it’s just going to be one single move.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Stirling in  London  at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Sillitoe at 
 psillitoe@bloomberg.net  