-- 
Japan Ruling Party Suffers Regional-Election Setback One Month After Quake

-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i
-- 
2011-04-11T04:47:48Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/shintaro-ishihara-elected-to-fourth-term-as-governor-of-tokyo-nhk-says.html
Prime Minister  Naoto Kan ’s
 Democratic Party of Japan  suffered a setback in the first
elections since last month’s earthquake, putting pressure on his
government as it seeks opposition support for relief efforts.  The Democrats lost two races for governor yesterday to
candidates from the main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party ,
while Tokyo Governor Shintaro Ishihara, an independent backed by
the LDP, was re-elected to a fourth term. In 41 prefectural
assembly elections, the DPJ won 346 seats compared with the
LDP’s 1,119, according to the Internal Affairs Ministry.  The results come amid discontent with Kan’s handling of the
March 11 earthquake and tsunami that killed thousands and
disabled a nuclear power plant. Polls show voters favor bringing
the opposition into the government to cope with the crisis,
something LDP leaders have declined to do.  “The voices calling for Kan’s resignation will
intensify,” said Tomoaki Iwai, a political science professor at
Nihon University in  Tokyo . “But the outlook is complex because
he doesn’t intend to resign. This is not the time for a
leadership change and there’s the issue of who will replace
him.”  Incumbents won nine of the 12 governors’ contests
yesterday. In three races, including Tokyo, Kan’s party didn’t
field a candidate. Ishihara won 43 percent of the vote in
Japan’s richest and biggest city.  “The public is questioning Kan’s leadership,” Nobuteru Ishihara, the No. 2 official in the LDP and the Tokyo governor’s
son, said on NHK Television last night. “The starting point of
a grand coalition would be to build trust, but I don’t think
there is trust right now.”  Approval Ratings  DPJ Secretary-General Katsuya Okada, also appearing on NHK,
called the results “regrettable.”  “The public expressed their views that our party hasn’t
fully met their expectations,” he said.  More than 60 percent of voters disapprove of Kan’s handling
of the crisis at Dai-Ichi, according to a Yomiuri newspaper poll
published on April 4. The survey said 64 percent favor a DPJ-LDP
government. Kan’s approval rating rose seven percentage points
to 31 percent from 24 percent the month before, the Yomiuri
said. The newspaper polled 1,036 people and provided no margin
of error.  Kan is set to unveil an initial economic spending package
this month to fund rebuilding in northeastern  Japan  and will
hold a press conference today to mark the one-month anniversary
of the disaster. Okada last night said the plan will total as
much as 4 trillion yen ($47 billion), and reiterated that the
government won’t issue deficit-covering bonds to pay for it.  Kan Hamstrung  Kan was fighting for his political life before the temblor
and tsunami struck, facing questions over a political donation
and hamstrung by his failure to get opposition lawmakers to
approve the sale of deficit-financing bonds. The DPJ signaled
last month that it was willing to compromise on campaign
promises in order to secure funding for the reconstruction
effort.  LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki has pledged support for
recovery efforts while saying he’s “cautious” about joining up
with the DPJ.  The magnitude-9 temblor and tsunami damaged the Fukushima
Dai-Ichi nuclear power plant owned by Tokyo Electric Power Co.
and left almost 28,000 people dead or missing. Tepco is still
using emergency equipment to try to cool damaged reactors. The
company is trying to prevent further hydrogen explosions after
blasts damaged containment structures, releasing radiation into
the air and sea.  ‘Divine Punishment’  Ishihara overcame public anger for his comment that the
earthquake and tsunami were “divine punishment” for Japan’s
excesses. After apologizing, he sought to head off concerns over
radiation levels in Tokyo’s water, due to a crippled nuclear
power plant, by drinking it in front of television cameras.  After inheriting a 106.8-billion-yen ($1.3 billion) deficit
on taking office in 1999, Ishihara cut spending. Tokyo posted a
surplus of 600 million yen in the fiscal year ended March 31,
2010.  Standard & Poor’s  cut the city’s long-term credit rating
in January after lowering Japan’s debt rating. The national debt
is about twice gross domestic product.  Tokyo has a population of more than 13 million and a $1.1
trillion economy that is bigger than  Australia ’s. It accounts
for almost a fifth of Japan’s economy.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  