-- 
Singapore to Revalue Currency or Steepen Trading Band, Survey Shows

-- B y   L i l i a n   K a r u n u n g a n   a n d   J a y   W a n g
-- 
2011-04-11T06:12:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/singapore-central-bank-will-revalue-currency-or-steepen-band-survey-shows.html
Singapore  will revalue its currency
to tame inflation that exceeded the government’s target in
February, joining other Asian central banks in tightening
monetary policy, predict 10 of 20 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  The Monetary Authority of Singapore will re-center the band
in which the city-state’s dollar is allowed to trade against a
weighted basket of currencies on April 14, the analysts said.
Six forecast no change from the “modest and gradual
appreciation” stance adopted in the last policy meeting in
October. Four expect faster gains in the currency will be
achieved through a steepening of the band.  “Inflationary pressures should still dominate,” said Chow Penn Nee, an economist at United Overseas Bank Ltd. in Singapore.
“A one-off shift at first might seem to be a more aggressive
tightening measure, but over time the  Singapore dollar  doesn’t
necessarily have to appreciate owing to the uncertainty of
economic growth.”  Singapore’s dollar rose 0.1 percent to S$1.25562 against
its U.S. counterpart as of 2:04 p.m. local time, bringing gains
this year to 2.1 percent, the fourth-best performance in  Asia ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. It reached S$1.25517
earlier, the strongest level since at least 1981 when Bloomberg
began tracking the data. The currency climbed 9.3 percent last
year, its best performance since 1994, after the central bank
unexpectedly tightened policy at both of its biannual reviews.  Median Estimates  The monetary authority uses the  exchange rate  rather than
borrowing costs to conduct monetary policy, adjusting the pace
of appreciation or depreciation against an undisclosed trade-
weighted band of currencies by changing the slope, width and
centre of the band. A steeper slope allows faster appreciation
over time, while lifting the band’s midpoint amounts to a one-
off revaluation. Policy makers revalued the currency last April
and steepened the slope in October.  Consumer prices rose 5 percent in February from a year
earlier, after a 5.5 percent gain in January that was the most
since 2008, according to official data released March 23. Prices
may advance by up to 4 percent this year, compared with an
earlier forecast of no more than 3 percent, Prime Minister Lee Hsien Loong’s government predicted Feb. 17.  China ,  India ,  Indonesia ,  South Korea ,  Taiwan , the
 Philippines  and  Thailand  have all raised  interest rates  this
year to slow inflation caused by rising fuel and food prices.  Economic growth may ease to 4 percent to 6 percent this
year, after a record expansion of 14.5 percent in 2010, the
government forecast in February. The Singapore dollar will
strengthen 0.4 percent by midyear to S$1.25 and 2.9 percent by
year-end to S$1.22, according to the median estimates of the 20
analysts.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lilian Karunungan in Singapore at  at
 lkarunungan@bloomberg.net ;
 Jay Wang  in Singapore at 
 jwang298@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sandy Hendry at 
 shendry@bloomberg.net . 