-- 
Stan Kroenke Is Poised to Take Control of Arsenal Soccer Club, Sky Says

-- B y   P e t e r - J o s e p h   H e g a r t y
-- 
2011-04-10T19:36:37Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/stan-kroenke-is-poised-to-take-control-of-arsenal-soccer-club-sky-says.html
U.S. billionaire Stan Kroenke is
about to take control of Arsenal  soccer club , Sky News said on
its website.  Kroenke, who owns close to 30 percent of the English Premier
League team, is in advanced talks to acquire the 16 percent
stakes held by Danny Fiszman and Nina Bracewell-Smith, Sky said
without saying where it got the information.  An announcement could be made tomorrow although it may be
delayed, Sky said. If Kroenke secures both holdings, he would
take his stake to about 62 percent. A holding of 30 percent or
more triggers a mandatory takeover bid under Stock Exchange
rules. Arsenal’s second-biggest shareholder is Russian
billionaire  Alisher Usmanov , with more than 27 percent. Unlike
Kroenke, he does not have a seat on the board of the club, which
has a market value of 718 million pounds ($1.2 billion).  Arsenal is the second-richest English team in terms of
revenue, behind  Manchester United , and fifth in  Europe ,
according to accountant Deloitte LLP.  Team spokesman Dan Tolhurst said the club had no comment on
the Sky report. Kroenke spokesman Tomago Collins and Bracewell-
Smith didn’t immediately respond to calls and e-mails seeking
comment. Usmanov spokesman Rollo Head declined to comment.
Smithfield Group, a spokesman for Fiszman, didn’t pick up a call
outside business hours.  Takeover speculation has grown around 13-time English
champion Arsenal in the past three years as Kroenke and Usmanov
built their stakes.  U.S. Sports  Bracewell-Smith left the club’s board in December 2008,
complaining she’d been marginalized. That released her from the
directors’ “lockdown” agreement not to sell shares to anyone
except close family before April 2009, and thereafter to give
board members first refusal until 2012. Her family has been
associated with the Gunners since 1938.  Kroenke is a prominent investor in U.S. sports and owns the
Denver Nuggets basketball team, the  National Hockey League ’s
Colorado Avalanche and Major League Soccer’s Colorado Rapids.  Arsenal’s last trophy was the F.A. Cup of 2005, and some
fans have complained that the current owners don’t have the
financial firepower to match teams like Chelsea, owned by
Russian billionaire  Roman Abramovich , and  Manchester City ,
bought in 2008 by Sheikh Mansour bin Zayed Al Nahyan of  Abu
Dhabi . Liverpool was bought by the owners of the  Boston Red Sox 
last year, and the U.S.-based Glazer family owns Manchester
United.  Arsenal won 3-1 at Blackpool today, and is second in the
Premier League, seven points behind Manchester United. The
league represents Arsenal’s only chance of silverware this
season as it’s already exited the F.A. Cup and the Champions
League and lost to Birmingham in the League Cup final.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter-Joseph Hegarty in London at 
 phegarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at 
 celser@bloomberg.net  