-- 
Stiglitz Calls for New Global Reserve Currency to Prevent Trade Imbalances

-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e   a n d   S a r a   E i s e n
-- 
2011-04-10T16:51:12Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/stiglitz-calls-for-new-global-reserve-currency-to-prevent-trade-imbalances.html
The world economy needs a new
global reserve currency to help prevent trade imbalances that
are reflected in the national debt of the U.S., said Nobel-prize
winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz .  A “global system” is needed to replace the dollar as a
reserve currency and help avoid a weakening of U.S. credit
quality, said Stiglitz, a professor at  Columbia University  in
New York. The dollar fell to an almost 15-month low against the
euro last week, and the  U.S. trade deficit  widened more than
forecast in January to the highest level in seven months.  “By taking off the burden of any single country, we don’t
have to have trade deficits,” Stiglitz said in an interview in
 Bretton Woods ,  New Hampshire . “Things would be much worse if it
were not the case that  Europe  was having even more of a problem,
but winning a negative beauty pageant is not the way to create a
strong economy.”  President  Barack Obama  and congressional leaders negotiated
a last-minute deal two nights ago to avert a government
shutdown. Within weeks, the government may be forced to increase
the $14.3 trillion federal debt ceiling to ensure the U.S. will
meet its financial obligations.  The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield was at 3.58
percent on April 8, below the average of 7 percent since 1980.  The ratio of general government debt, including state and
local governments, to gross domestic product is projected to
climb to 100 percent in 2012, the most of any country with an
AAA ranking,  Fitch Ratings  said last week.  ‘Extremely Low’  Even so, “the likelihood of the U.S. government failing to
honor its financial obligations and in particular make due and
full payments on U.S. Treasury securities is extremely low,”
Fitch said in a statement.  To finance its budget deficits, the U.S. sells bonds to
overseas investors and governments, boosting the dollar reserves
of those nations. Overseas holdings of dollar reserves rose to
$3.14 trillion in the fourth quarter of last year, according to
International Monetary Fund figures.  “Reserves are IOU’s,” Stiglitz said. “When IOU’s get big
enough, people start saying maybe you’re not a good credit risk.
Or at least, they would change in their sentiment about credit
risk.”  Stiglitz, who won the 2001  Nobel Prize  for economics, was
attending the Institute for New Economic Thinking’s conference
in Bretton Woods at the hotel where U.S. and European officials
met in 1944 to remake the global monetary system.  Nations agreed to fix exchange rates, establish the IMF and
start the process of rebuilding Europe’s economy in the
aftermath of World War II by encouraging coordinated economic
policies.  The existing monetary system means “there’s a very good
risk of an extended period of low growth, inflationary bias,
instability,” Stiglitz said. It’s “a system that’s
fundamentally unfair because it means that poor countries are
lending to the U.S. at close to zero interest rates.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Eisen in  New York  at 
 seisen2@bloomberg.net ;
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  