-- 
Swedish Government Said to Work on Enabling Saab Auto Loan

-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 
2011-04-10T12:25:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/swedish-government-said-to-work-on-enabling-saab-auto-loan-1-.html
The Swedish government is working
to enable Saab Automobile to receive a commercial  bank loan  to
let the cash-strapped Swedish carmaker avoid bankruptcy, three
people familiar with the situation said.  The loan would most likely come from Bankas Snoras in
 Lithuania , which is controlled by Russian investor  Vladimir Antonov , said one of the people, who declined to be identified
as the talks are private. Antonov is seeking to take a stake in
Saab’s owner  Spyker Cars NV. (SPYKR)   The agreement would give a financial lifeline to Saab,
which has been forced to halt production amid a payment dispute
with suppliers, while the government analyzes whether to clear
Antonov as an investor, the people said. The government is
involved because it’s guaranteeing Saab’s 400 million-euro ($577
million) loan from the  European Investment Bank , the European
Union’s lending arm.  Spyker bought Saab from General Motors Co. in February 2010
for $74 million in cash and $326 million in preferred shares.
Saab first suspended production on March 29 after suppliers
stopped delivering components. Saab Chief Executive Officer Jan- Aake Jonsson said April 4 that the Trollhaettan, Sweden-based
company’s liquidity “became more strained” during the second
half of the first quarter, declining to give more details.  Gunilla Gustavs, a Saab spokeswoman, declined to comment.
Frank Nilsson, chief of staff for Industry Minister Maud Olofsson, also declined to comment.  Sales Plunge  Saab’s sales have plummeted in recent years and the
carmaker was on the brink of shutting down during the financial
crisis before Spyker bought it. Last year Saab sold 31,696 cars,
down from an original forecast of between 50,000 and 60,000
vehicles. Sales were hurt in 2010 because it took longer than
expected to restore the flow of production after GM emptied the
factory and cut Saab’s supplier ties in January of last year,
Spyker CEO Victor Muller has said.  Saab, which introduced the new 9-5 sedan last year and in
the coming months plans to roll out the 9-4X crossover and 9-5
wagon, aims to sell 120,000 cars and become profitable by 2012.
Its best year was in 2006, when it sold 133,000 autos.  The Swedish government has agreed to let Saab free up
collateral now used to back the EIB loan, of which Saab so far
has drawn 217 million euros, contingent on the carmaker finding
a commercial bank able to make the loan, the people said. The
freed-up collateral could then instead be used to secure the
commercial credit. The government’s guarantee is backed by
collateral such as Saab’s factory and after-sale business.  Saab Loan  Lawyers are working on the loan deal today, which may be
approved as early as tomorrow, two of the people said.  Saab would likely borrow around 300 million kronor ($48
million) from Bankas Snoras, one of the people said. This would
allow the struggling carmaker to pay suppliers and restart
production while it waits for clearance to bring in Antonov.
Antonov is ready to invest at least 50 million euros in Saab,
Lars Carlstrom, his spokesman in  Sweden , said April 8.  Antonov has agreed to cap his stake in Saab at 30 percent,
Carlstrom said then. Antonov in February announced plans to buy
Spyker’s sports-car unit.  The Swedish brand, which has about 3,800 workers, has faced
no shortage of skeptics, including Fiat SpA Chief Executive
Officer  Sergio Marchionne , who have questioned the small
carmaker’s ability to survive in the volume-driven  auto industry .  “I like the Saab brand,” Marchionne said in January 2010.
“I think it’s very difficult to be a niche player and
profitable.”  Saab maintains it can earn a profit once upcoming models are
introduced by keeping costs down and finding innovative revenue
streams, such as potentially selling the rights to other
carmakers to share a new vehicle platform it has developed.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at 
 cthomas16@bloomberg.net  