-- 
Swiss Watchmakers May Not All Be Swiss Enough to Scale Barriers

-- B y   T o m   M u l i e r
-- 
2011-04-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/swiss-watchmakers-may-not-all-be-swiss-enough-to-scale-barriers.html
Mondaine , the maker of Official
Swiss Railways watches, may have to shut a two-year-old factory
because its timepieces aren’t Swiss enough.  The future of the 10 million-franc ($11 million) plant in
Solothurn and its 110 workers would be jeopardized should larger
rivals such as  Swatch Group AG (UHR)  succeed in calls for fewer non-
Swiss components to be allowed in Swiss-made timepieces,
according to Mondaine co-owner Ronnie Bernheim. Mondaine, which
has been making watches modelled on the nation’s train-station
clocks for 25 years, uses imported dials and cases.  “This law would be cutting the industry into two,”
Bernheim said in an interview in Basel. “The volume business
will be killed, except for the big companies. Our foreign
competitors are laughing.”  Watches were Switzerland’s fastest-growing major export
last year. The industry has rebuilt itself since teetering on
the brink of collapse in the 1970s. To keep its lead as other
manufacturers shift to countries such as China in search of
cheaper labor, the industry is trying to erect higher barriers
to entry, which would make Swiss watches a scarcer luxury.  Since 1971, watchmakers have been allowed to use non-Swiss
components for less than 50 percent of the value of the watch’s
movement, or motor. The Federation of Swiss Watchmaking, which
includes Swatch Group and competitor Cie. Financiere Richemont
SA, asked the government in 2007 to add higher requirements on
the use of Swiss components in the value of the entire
timepiece. The government proposed that for industrial products,
60 percent should come from  Switzerland . A final decision may be
made next year, said Jean-Daniel Pasche, head of the group.  Cheaper Parts  The proposal is a “tough issue” because it’s part of
measures that would affect branding across a broad range of
industries including food, according to Pasche.  “Swiss-made is kind of a synonym for quality,” said
 Thomas Chauvet , an analyst at Citigroup Inc. in  London . “For
the longer-term preservation of the industry’s strength, and the
fact that they have no rival, it’s important to raise the bar.”  Makers of luxury Swiss watches such as Swatch Group’s
Breguet brand would benefit from tighter laws because they
source most of their components from Switzerland, according to
Rene Weber, an analyst at Bank Vontobel in Zurich. Less-
expensive watch brands made in the country use cheaper imported
parts because they face more competition from Japan or  China ,
Weber said. Mondaine’s Official Swiss Railways watch sells for
as much as $595, while Breguet timepieces can exceed $700,000.  “Swiss-Made is very important as the basis for this
industry,” Swatch Group Chief Executive Officer Nick Hayek said
at a March 10 press conference. “We’re not going to produce in
 India ,  Russia  or anywhere else.”  Job Threat  The proposed rule changes would threaten jobs at producers
of less-expensive Swiss watches, Bernheim said. Two-thirds of
industry jobs are at companies with fewer than 500 employees,
according to the  Swiss Watch Industry Employers’ Organization .  The “big hurdle” is the cost of producing mechanical
movements, Bernheim said. Building an assembly line that makes
them costs at least 20 million francs and can take five-to-10
years of testing, he said. Many watchmakers in the industry need
to buy cases, crowns, dials and hands from outside Switzerland,
because there isn’t enough production in the country, he said.  Luxury watchmaking is one of the few manufacturing
industries that has resisted a full shift of production to  Asia .
Still, the industry’s growth has attracted non-Swiss companies.  Non-Swiss Competition  Tianjin Sea-Gull Watch Co., a Chinese company founded in
1955, has begun producing complicated watch mechanisms such as
 tourbillons , which on a Swiss watch can command prices of more
than $50,000.  MontieK , an Amsterdam-based company, this year is
starting to sell European-designed timepieces with Sea-Gull
movements for as little as 1,300 euros ($1,883).  “In the future we can compete with the Swiss,” Keith
Choi, sales manager for Tianjin’s Tsinlien watchmaking unit,
said in a March 25 interview. “At least we can hold the market
among the middle class now.”  The strength of the Swiss franc, which has risen 18 percent
against the dollar in the past year, makes it easier for
watchmakers to use more non-Swiss components and still claim the
“Swiss-Made” moniker, said Jean-Marc Jacot, CEO of Parmigiani,
whose timepieces cost $70,000 on average.  Making Swiss watches might become more difficult if Swatch
Group succeeds in negotiations with Switzerland’s  competition
regulator  to end rules requiring it to sell timepiece movements
to competitors. Swatch’s ETA unit has a de facto requirement to
sell to third parties because of its dominant position,
according to the regulator, known as Comco. ETA makes as much as
80 percent of Swiss-made movements, analysts at Sanford C.
Bernstein estimated in a March 18 report.  ‘Down The Drain’  A watch company might buy a movement from ETA for 250 Swiss
francs and sell the timepiece for 10,000 to 20,000 Swiss francs,
Swatch Group CEO Hayek said in February. Watchmakers could spend
40 million francs to 60 million francs to set up their own
factories and make components themselves, he said.  According to Mondaine’s Bernheim, Switzerland’s lower-end
watchmakers will be sacrificed should the country adopt the  rule
changes  being sought by the larger companies.  “There’s generations of work done by people that will just
go down the drain,” the executive said. “This law would really
be a slap in our faces.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tom Mulier in Geneva at 
 tmulier@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Celeste Perri at   cperri@bloomberg.net . 