-- 
Syrian Officer Killed, Soldiers Injured as Tanks Enter Oil Hub

-- B y   C l a u d i a   M a e d l e r   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-10T17:37:59Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/syrian-officer-killed-soldiers-injured-as-tanks-enter-oil-hub.html
A Syrian army officer was killed
and several soldiers were injured when gunmen ambushed their
vehicle in the coastal oil hub of  Banias , where tanks were
deployed to contain protests spreading across the country, state
television reported, citing unidentified people.  Tanks had moved into the city, whose oil terminal is the
nation’s main export point, according to  Al Arabiya  and
Associated Press reports.  Three people were killed and dozens were injured in Banias
today, Syrian state television reported, citing a nurse in a
hospital in the city.  Syria , where President Bashar al-Assad’s Baath party has
been in power since 1963, is the latest Middle Eastern country
hit by a wave of uprisings that ousted longtime rulers in Egypt
and  Tunisia , and sparked armed conflict in  Libya . Assad has
issued a number of decrees granting more freedoms amid ongoing
protests demanding political change.  Assad reiterated that Syria is on course for
“comprehensive reform,” the state-run Syrian Arab News Agency
reported today. Foreign Minister Walid Al-Muallem said the
country was attempting to meet popular demands according to a
program for economic, political and judicial reform.  Muallem accused “saboteurs” of infiltrating
demonstrations and firing on protesters and security forces to
instigate violence, SANA said. Syrian authorities will adopt
measures to guarantee the security, stability and safety of the
country, he said.  Rights groups, including  Amnesty International  and  Human
Rights Watch , have reported dozens of deaths in Syria’s unrest
and blamed authorities for the use of excessive force.  The protests in Syria have been the strongest challenge to
Assad’s rule since he inherited power from his father in 2000.
Weeks of unrest led to the resignation of the government and the
appointment of ex-Agriculture Minister Adel Safar on April 3 as
the prime minister tasked with forming a new Cabinet.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Claudia Maedler in Dubai at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Inal Ersan at 
 iersan@bloomberg.net  