-- 
Sharjah Fires Art Director for Algerian Rape Depiction ‘Offense’

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a
-- 
2011-04-10T12:47:42Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/u-a-e-s-sharjah-fires-art-director-after-outcry-over-algerian-mannequins.html
The ruler of United Arab Emirates
sheikhdom Sharjah fired the director of the  Sharjah Biennial 
exhibition after work by an Algerian artist was deemed offensive.  "In response to a public outcry expressing offense
regarding the content of Mustafa Benfodil’s work exhibited in
the Sharjah Biennial, Jack Persekian’s position as director of
the Sharjah Art Foundation is no longer tenable," the foundation
said in an e-mailed statement received today. "The work has been
removed from the exhibition because leaving it on view was too
risky from a legal and cultural standpoint."  " Maportaliche ," or "It Has No Importance," depicts a group
of headless mannequins in soccer uniforms with Arabic words
printed on their shirts. The exhibit included graffiti on nearby
walls and a text entitled "Soliloquy of Cherifa," representing
women who were raped by Islamists during  Algeria ’s civil war in
the 1990s, according to the Esprit de Babel blog, which carried
a statement from Benfodil.  State-owned Emirates News Agency reported April 6 that
Sheikh Sultan bin Mohammed al-Qasimi dismissed Persekian,
without giving a reason. Sharjah is the only sheikhdom in the
U.A.E. that bans the sale, possession and consumption of
alcohol. The U.A.E. consists of seven sheikhdoms including  Abu
Dhabi  and Dubai, the Persian Gulf business hub.  Benfodil’s work "borrowed the voice of the victims of rape
at the hands of religious extremists in Algeria, who used
religious texts to justify their crime," according to a
statement from the curators, Rasha Salti and Haig Aivazian, who
selected it. "It defies the silence of nameless and forgotten
victims. The work is very specific to the Algerian context, and
in no way was it meant as an attack on religion or Islam at
large."  The U.A.E. is leading the  Persian Gulf  in funding cultural
initiatives such as building museums and hosting art fairs and
film festivals as it seek to boost tourism and reduce dependence
on income from oil and gas exports.  The Sharjah Biennial opened March 16 and will last through
May 16.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ;
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net  