-- 
U.K. Business-Survey Data Add Weight to Rate-Increase Arguments, BDO Says

-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 
2011-04-10T23:05:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/u-k-economic-data-support-boe-rate-increase-argument-bdo-says.html
U.K. companies’ inflation
expectations and measures of business output and employment rose
in March, adding strength to the call from some Bank of England
policy makers that  interest rates  should increase, BDO LLP said.  An index of inflation expectations for the next three
months gained to 106.2, the highest level since November 2008,
from 105.2 in February, the accountancy firm said in a report
released in London today. A reading of more than 100 indicates
companies expect inflation will be above its average trend and
exceed the central bank’s 2 percent target.  The Bank of England’s Monetary Policy Committee left its
key interest rate at a record low last week as a faltering
recovery takes priority over the fastest inflation in more than
two years. BDO said that while the survey adds to signals the
economy has rebounded from a fourth-quarter slump, the bank
should consider holding off raising borrowing costs as growth is
not yet strong enough to withstand a “premature” increase.  “Although this month’s data shows marked improvement, the
recovery is still far from guaranteed,” BDO partner Peter Hemington said in a statement. “While it is unlikely that the
U.K. will slip back into a technical recession, growth is far
from robust and will be compromised if the MPC jumps the gun
with a premature rate rise. We need to see at least four months’
sustained growth before the MPC considers intervention.”  Employment Gauge  An index of estimated output surged to 99.3 in March, the
highest reading since July, from 94.8 in February, BDO said. The
gain was the largest monthly increase since the measure began in
1996. A reading above 95 signifies expansion.  An employment gauge climbed to 100.5 from 97.8, while an
index which shows how companies expect to trade in two quarters’
time increased 98 from 95.5, the accountancy firm said.  “High inflation, alongside the more encouraging figures on
output and employment, provides ammunition for those at the  Bank
of England  arguing for an increase in rates,” BDO said in the
report. “Whether or not to increase rates is still a finely
balanced question.”  While business optimism is rising, consumer sentiment is
close to the lowest in almost two years and household spending
remains subdued. In a separate statement today, the Centre for
Economics and Business Research Ltd. said real U.K. disposable
incomes will drop 2 percent this year. Added to a 0.8 percent
decline last year, the CEBR said that means British households
will see their spending power fall more than during the Great
Depression in the 1930s.  BDO’s monthly Business Trends report is compiled by the
CEBR, which calculates a weighted average of the results of the
U.K.’s main business surveys covering more than 11,000 companies
employing about five million workers.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in  London  at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  