-- 
U.K. FSA's Fines Triple to $159 Million After JPMorgan, Goldman Penalties

-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 
2011-04-10T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/u-k-finance-regulator-s-fines-tripled-last-year-to-159-million.html
Britain’s financial regulator
tripled the amount of fines it levied to a record high
97 million pounds ($159 million) for the fiscal year ended in
March, a  London  law firm said.  The Financial Services Authority’s fines against companies
or individuals that breached its rules were up from 33.1 million
pounds in the year ago period, according to data published today
by Reynolds Porter Chamberlain LLP. The firm said the average
fine for offenses including market abuse and failure to
segregate client money rose 49 percent to 1.1 million pounds.  “This is quite an extraordinary cranking up of the FSA’s
enforcement,” Reynolds Porter lawyer Jonathan Davies said.
“There has been a steady increase in the number and value of
fines imposed since September 2008, but this is by far the
biggest jump.”  The largest fines ever imposed by the regulator came in the
past year.  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM)  was fined a record 33.3 million
pounds in June for not properly separating client money from the
firm’s accounts.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s London unit was
docked 17.5 million pounds in September for failing to notify
the FSA about a U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
investigation.  The FSA will be abolished at the end of 2012 as the
government overhauls financial regulation after having to bail
out two of the country’s biggest banks. The government is
transferring oversight of prudential regulation to a unit of the
 Bank of England  and the rest of the FSA will become the
consumer-focused Financial Conduct Authority.  “A significant concern we hear from clients is that the
two new regulators will compete with each other to set the
highest fines,” Davies said.  The fines could triple again because the FSA changed its
rules last year to allow for higher penalties, the firm said.
The fines are getting large enough that they offset some of the
cost businesses pay in fees to the FSA, which is funded by
industry. About half of the FSA’s enforcement investigations
result in a fine, Davies said.  The regulator said in its business plan that firms will pay
2 percent less, even though the funding requirement increased 10
percent, because of the fines collected.  To contact the reporter for this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 