-- 
Humala Tops Field in Peru President Vote As Race for Runoff Spot Tightens

-- B y   J o h n   Q u i g l e y
-- 
2011-04-11T01:33:46Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/humala-to-win-first-round-of-peru-vote-tie-for-runoff-spot-survey-says.html
Former Peruvian army officer
Ollanta Humala won the most votes in the Andean nation’s
presidential elections, though will need to wait for full
results to know who he’ll face in a June runoff.  Humala won 26.9 percent in the first round of voting today,
 Peru ’s electoral authority said after counting more than 43
percent of valid ballots cast. Former Finance Minister Pedro Pablo Kuczynski trailed with 23.6 percent, while Congresswoman
Keiko Fujimori had 21.8 percent. Former President  Alejandro Toledo  won 15.3 percent.  A quick count by Lima-based researcher Ipsos Apoyo 
suggested Fujimori, the  daughter of jailed former President
Alberto Fujimori, will beat Kuczynski by four percentage points 
for the right to compete against Humala in a June 5 runoff. 
Humala won 31.2 percent, according to the same quick count of 
results at selected voting stations nationwide by Ipsos.  A candidate needs half of ballots cast to avoid a June 5
runoff against the second-place finisher.  Humala, a one-time ally of Venezuelan President  Hugo Chavez , lost the presidency to  Alan Garcia  by 5 percentage
points in 2006. The Andean nation’s stocks and bonds tumbled as
he surged from fourth into first place in opinion polls over the
past month, overtaking Fujimori, Kuczynski and Toledo.  Humala, 48, has pledged to renegotiate a free trade
agreement with the U.S. signed by Garcia and raise royalty fees
on mining and gas production to boost social spending. While
downplaying his ties to Chavez and muting the anti-capitalist
rhetoric used in 2006, Humala’s campaign platform proposes
increasing state control of the economy and drawing up a new
constitution.  “A Humala presidency could strengthen the populist axis in
 South America  or he could join the more liberal, modern left,”
said Julio Carrion, professor of Latin American politics at the
 University of Delaware  in  Newark . “He’s an unknown quantity.”  Garcia’s Endorsement  Kuczynski may have gotten a late boost from an endorsement
April 8 by Garcia’s APRA party. An adviser to New York-based
fund manager Rohatyn Group, the 72-year-old Kuczynski twice
served as finance minister during Toledo’s 2001 to 2006
presidency.  Garcia, 61, whose five-year mandate expires July 28, is
banned by Peru’s constitution from seeking re-election. His
party’s candidate, former Finance Minister  Mercedes Araoz , quit
the race in January.  Market Jitters  Demand for Peru’s stocks, bonds and currency fell as
Humala’s advance in the polls sparked concern that, if elected,
he’d scare away foreign investment that has fueled the fastest
growth in Latin America over the past five years.  The cost of insuring Peru’s debt against default rose to
its highest since 2009 last week on concern a Humala presidency
would jeopardize $50 billion of mining, energy and
infrastructure investment that the government expects will fuel
6.5 percent growth over the next five years. Peru, the world’s
second-largest producer of copper and No. 1 in silver, grew 8.8
percent last year.  Peru’s sol has declined 1.1 percent against the  U.S. dollar 
since March 20, when Humala began gaining in the polls, making
it the worst performer among 25 emerging-market currencies
tracked by Bloomberg. The Lima General Index has fallen 3.4
percent in dollar terms during the past month, the fifth-worst
performance among 90 primary stock indexes tracked by Bloomberg.  “Ours is a message of inclusion,” Humala told reporters
today outside his home in eastern Lima, after casting his vote.
“The electoral process is a celebration of democracy. It’s not
about confrontation and polarization. Once the president has
been elected, we’ll all need to work together.”  Fujimori, Toledo  Under Garcia, Peru created 2.5 million jobs and had its
first-ever investment-grade ratings from Moody’s Investors
Service, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. A third of
Peruvians still live in poverty, most of them in the Andean
highlands where support for Humala is strongest.  Fujimori, Toledo and Kuczynski support Garcia’s policies of
promoting free trade and foreign investment.  Fujimori, 35, is the daughter of jailed former president
 Alberto Fujimori , who her supporters credit with laying the
foundations of Peru’s economic boom. Like Humala, her support is
strongest in the Andean highlands where nostalgia runs high for
her father’s role stabilizing the economy in the 1990s and
defeating a Marxist insurgency. The mother-of-two was elected to
Congress in 2006 with more votes than any other candidate.  Toledo, 65, was Peru’s first elected president of
indigenous descent. A former shoe-shiner, he rose out of poverty
to obtain a  doctorate  in the economics of human resources from
 Stanford University  near  Palo Alto ,  California , and has worked
for the  World Bank , the  United Nations  and the International
Labor Organization.  Early Frontrunner  Toledo, who had been the early frontrunner, has seen
support for his candidacy fade since February and last week
sought to forge an alliance with Kuczynski and Castaneda to
thwart Humala. They turned him down. Still, he’s the only
leading candidate favored to defeat Humala in a runoff scenario,
by four percentage points, according to an April 3 Ipsos poll.  “We’ve had almost 10 years of persistent and impressive
economic growth,” Toledo told reporters in  Lima  April 8. “To
truncate that would be absolutely damaging. If Ollanta Humala is
elected, you will see a run on the markets.”  Whoever is elected president may face gridlock in Congress.
Humala’s Nationalist Party may win about 41 of the 130 seats in
Peru’s unicameral  legislature , compared with 35 for Fujimori’s
“2011 Force” and 22 for Toledo’s “Possible Peru” movement,
according to today’s exit poll by Ipsos.  Humala had an advantage of between 7 and 9 percentage
points over Fujimori in polls conducted last week by Lima-based
researchers Datum Internacional and CPI. Kuczynski and Toledo
came in third and fourth respectively, both polls showed.  “The electorate is behaving in a really erratic way, with
voters moving from Toledo and Fujimori to Humala,” said Alvaro Vargas Llosa, a senior fellow at the Independent Institute in
 Washington . “We’ve never had such a fluid situation. You can’t
take anything for granted in the second round.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Quigley in Lima at 
 jquigley8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  