-- 
Viacom’s Dauman Highest-Paid CEO as Pay Gains, N.Y. Times Says

-- B y   D a n   H a r t
-- 
2011-04-10T16:05:50Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/viacom-s-dauman-highest-paid-ceo-as-pay-gains-n-y-times-says.html
Viacom Inc. (VIA/B) ’s Philippe Dauman was
the highest-paid chief executive officer in the U.S. last year
as compensation overall gained for the first time in two years,
the New York Times reported.  Dauman received $84.5 million, with Viacom telling the
newspaper the amount was inflated by one-time stock awards
linked to a long-term contract. The compensation was for nine
months, the newspaper said, after Viacom changed its fiscal
year. Ray Irani, chief executive of  Occidental Petroleum Corp. (OXY) ,
was second with $76.1 million, the Times said.  The median total compensation for U.S. executives gained 12
percent to $9.6 million, while the average was up 20 percent,
the newspaper said, citing the survey by executive compensation
tracker  Equilar .  Larry Ellison,  Oracle Corp. (ORCL) ’s chief executive who was No. 1
in the survey last year, was third this year with $70.1 million,
followed by  DirecTV (DTV)  Chief Executive Michael White, who received
$32.9 million, the Times said. John Lundgren, chief executive of
 Stanley Black & Decker Inc. (SWK) , was paid $32.6 million and was
fifth, the newspaper said.  Rounding out the top 10 in sixth through 10th place,
respectively, were: Brian Roberts,  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , $28.2 million;
Robert Iger,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) , $28 million; Alan Mulally,  Ford
Motor Co. (F) , $26.5 million; Samuel Palmisano,  International
Business Machines Corp. (IBM) , $25.2 million; and David Farr,  Emerson
Electric Co. (EMR) , $22.9 million, the Times said.  Equilar’s study for the newspaper covered 199 public
companies with annual revenue of at least $7 billion that filed
annual proxy statements by April 1, the Times said. The
newspaper said this list isn’t definitive because some
companies, including  Morgan Stanley (MS)  and  JPMorgan Chase & Co. (JPM) ,
had yet to file their executive pay data.  Total compensation is comprised of an executive’s base
salary, grant-date value of stock and option awards,
discretionary and performance-based cash bonuses, and other
compensation, the newspaper said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Dan Hart  in Washington at 
 dahart@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at   swier@bloomberg.net . 