-- 
Tense Meetings, Stalled Talks Led to a ‘Painful’ Agreement on U.S. Budget

-- B y   L i s a   L e r e r
-- 
2011-04-11T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/wrangle-over-u-s-budget-compromise-defines-next-two-years-fiscal-debate.html
President  Barack Obama  had finally
reached his breaking point.  For more than an hour in an Oval Office meeting on April 7,
House Speaker  John Boehner  had insisted that any compromise on
the government’s budget include a prohibition on federal funding
for Planned Parenthood.  Obama already had reluctantly agreed to a provision banning
the  District of Columbia  from spending funds on abortion
services -- and that was as far as he would go.  “Nope, zero,” he told Boehner, according to a senior
Democratic aide. “John, this is it.” The room went silent.  The tense negotiations culminating in a last-minute deal
the next night to avert a government shutdown underscored the
challenges facing both Boehner and Obama as they tackle the
fiscal issues that will dominate the debate during the next two
years in Washington.  “This will be a tough fight,”  David Plouffe , senior White
House adviser, said in an interview with ABC’s “This Week”
program yesterday. “If we can strive to find common ground, and
I’m not suggesting this is going to be easy, we will be able to
get this done.”  Looming struggles to raise the $14.3 trillion debt ceiling
and craft next year’s budget will help shape the country’s
economic future and define the 2012 presidential race. The fight
to fund the government through the Sept. 30 close of the fiscal
year resulted in what Obama said were some “painful” spending
cuts. Yet it was only the initial test of how both leaders will
navigate the dangers of divided government.  ‘A Good Exercise’  “It’s the first time we all worked under these new
parameters we are in, so we’ve had to learn each other,” said
House Appropriations Committee Chairman Hal Rogers, a Kentucky
Republican, who participated in the talks. “It was a good
exercise in that respect because we will know next time -- and
there will be many times -- we will know next time more how to
handle these kinds of things.”  “Things got heated,” Plouffe said on NBC’s “Meet the
Press” yesterday. “The president’s approach was to try and
engage all the parties to come together. Going forward this can
be a model.”  The deal averted the furlough of 800,000 federal employees,
the closure of federal facilities such as national parks and the
Smithsonian Institution in Washington and a delay in processing
tax returns.  While officials warned of economic consequences from a
shutdown, financial markets have shown little concern about U.S.
fiscal health. The benchmark 10-year Treasury note yield was at
3.58 percent on April 8, below the average of 7 percent since
1980, reflecting expectations a deal would be reached, said  John Lonski , chief economist at Moody’s Capital Markets Group.  Obama Draws Complaints  For weeks, Obama, 49, stayed out of direct negotiations
over the budget accord, sparking complaints from lawmakers in
both parties on  Capitol Hill  that he waited too long to get
involved. He spoke to Boehner, 61, directly just twice between
Feb. 19, when the House passed its budget bill, and April 2,
according to Republican aides.  Serious negotiations only began after Republicans passed
the sixth stopgap spending measure on March 15, funding the
government through April 8. Fifty-four Republicans voted against
the bill, forcing Boehner to rely on Democrats to pass the
measure and making it clear that another short-term extension
wouldn’t be tolerated by the Tea Party-wing of his conference,
which is pressing hardest for deficit reduction.  Heated Meeting  The two sides struggled even to agree on a baseline for how
much spending to cut. Formal talks stalled after a heated March
22 meeting, at which a Republican Appropriations aide insisted
on using as a starting point the House bill that included $61
billion in spending cuts, said one of the people familiar with
the talks. Democrats offered to cut $10 billion.  Six days later, White House Chief of Staff  William Daley 
reinvigorated discussions when he suggested that Democrats could
accept another $20 billion in cuts. The staffs began working on
a deal that would slash $33 billion in spending, according to
aides.  Negotiations suffered another setback on March 30, however,
when Vice President  Joe Biden  announced the $33 billion number
to reporters after a meeting on Capitol Hill. That fueled
reports of a tentative deal and angered Republican negotiators,
who feared a Tea Party backlash.  Tea Party Protest  As Tea Party activists protested outside the Capitol,
chanting “shut it down” in a chilly drizzle, Boehner disputed
the reports of a deal.  “There is no agreement on a set of numbers, and nothing
will be agreed to until everything’s agreed to,” he told
reporters.  Behind closed doors, however, he began selling the idea of
a compromise to his caucus, reminding the 87 new Republican
House members that his party controls only that chamber and
lacks the influence to impose its will on the Democratic-
controlled Senate and White House.  In private meetings, Boehner argued that a shutdown could
have catastrophic effects for the party by handing Democrats a
political “win.”  “He put it in context,” said Representative Dan Lungren,
of  California . “He said, ‘Look, nobody is going to get 100
percent of what they want,’ including him.”  Ryan’s Plan  The release of House Budget Committee Chairman  Paul Ryan ’s
2012 budget plan on April 5 helped convince some lawmakers to
back a compromise, said House Republican aides. While party
leaders debated whether releasing the Ryan proposal would
complicate the talks, the Wisconsin Republican’s ambitious plan
calling for an overhaul of Medicare and Medicaid and deep cuts
reassured some members they would get additional opportunities
to spotlight their efforts to slash spending.  “We’ve got a few months left in this fiscal year; let’s
reduce the size of government, and let’s focus on 2012,” said
Representative Adam Kinzinger, a freshman from  Illinois .  Republicans also introduced a weeklong funding bill that
would cut $12 billion in spending and fund the Defense
Department through the end of the year. The White House vowed to
veto such a proposal, called the “troop funding bill” by
Republicans.  Still, Republican aides say the measure put additional
pressure on Democrats to agree to cuts by positioning them
between funding soldiers and shutting down the government.  Policy Riders  On April 6, Obama, Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid ,
Daley, Biden, Boehner, White House budget director  Jacob Lew  and
top aides convened in the White House to try to design a
framework for the deal. Boehner said he wouldn’t propose a
bottom or top-line number, because the spending cuts depended on
the number of so-called policy riders that Democrats would agree
to include in the final deal.  Democrats tried to force Boehner to accept $33 billion,
according to Republican aides familiar with the negotiations. He
refused, and Democrats left the meeting doubtful they would
reach a deal, though the lawmakers agreed to reconvene.  The next night, the parties reached agreement on the broad
composition of a bill that included $38 billion in cuts. Yet the
sticking point remained the Planned Parenthood funding ban,
which Republicans said was non-negotiable.  Democrats were adamant that it not be in the bill, knowing
the provision would inflame their base and could alienate the
independent voters whose support Obama will need to win a second
term.  Frustration  Toward the end of the meeting, after repeated efforts to
insert the family planning rider, an exasperated Biden said the
administration was prepared to “take it to the American
people” and allow a shutdown over an issue unrelated to
 government spending .  Aides headed back to the Capitol around 11:45 p.m. and by 3
a.m., talks had stalled. Republican aides were asking for more
than $40 billion in cuts and standing firm on the abortion
provisions.  The following morning, after not hearing from Boehner,
Obama called the speaker and relayed his frustrations that the
current state of negotiations didn’t reflect their talks from
the night before.  The breakthrough came on the morning of April 8, when
Republicans embraced an idea originally proposed by Senator  Dick Durbin , of Illinois, to hold an up-or-down vote on the most
contentious policy amendments.  As aides hammered out the final language, the lawmakers
stayed in constant contact. Obama and Boehner spoke four times
on April 8, and the president called Reid repeatedly, with a few
calls just minutes apart.  Boehner called his conference together at noon and again at
9:45 p.m. to present an almost-final version of the deal,
rattling off a list of items including health-care and abortion
votes to Republican applause.  'Item by Item'  “He went through item by item and said, ‘This isn’t all,
this isn’t all,’” said Representative  Darrell Issa , a
California Republican.                   Boehner told members he had gotten the best deal he could,
given that Republicans control only the House, and that they had
changed the debate to focus on cutting spending rather than
approving new programs.  “We control one half of one third of the government,”
Issa told reporters as he left the meeting. “We don’t mandate
anything.”  Forty-five minutes later, aides shook hands on a final deal
and Daley, Obama’s chief of staff, called the president in his
residence to tell him a deal had been reached. At 11:04 p.m.,
Obama addressed the American people from the White House Blue
Room, with the  Washington  Monument lit behind him.  “Tomorrow, I’m pleased to announce that the Washington
Monument, as well as the entire federal government, will be open
for business.”  To contact the reporters on this story: Lisa Lerer in
Washington at 
 llerer@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story: Mark Silva at
   msilva34@bloomberg.net  