-- 
Hyundai Heavy Offers Lowest Bid to Build Iraqi Power Plant

-- B y   K a d h i m   A j r a s h   a n d   N a y l a   R a z z o u k
-- 
2011-04-10T16:25:49Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-04-10/hyundai-heavy-offers-lowest-bid-to-build-iraqi-power-plant.html
South Korea ’s Hyundai Heavy
Industries Co. tendered the lowest of six bids for the
construction of a 500-megawatt power plant in central  Iraq , an
Iraqi Electricity Ministry official said.  Hyundai Heavy bid $158.9 million for the work, which will
help boost power supplies and ease the outages that have sapped
Iraq’s economy.  Metka SA (METTK)  of  Greece , Turkey’s Enka Insaat &
Sanayi AS,  Lanco Infratech Ltd. (LANCI)  of  India , and companies from
Iraq and Jordan also bid for the project, Deputy Electricity
Minister Salam Qazaz said in an interview today.  “The winner of the bid will be announced between three
days and one week following a study of technical and financial
aspects of the tender,” Qazaz said in Baghdad. The natural-gas
fired plant in Najaf is to be built within 18 months, he said.  In a separate bid, Hyundai Heavy, Lanco Infratech, three
Iraqi groups and an Italian company submitted offers to build a
250-megawatt power station in Al-Qaim in western Iraq, Sabih
Ishak, a director general at the Electricity Ministry, said in
an interview from  Baghdad . Results will be announced April 17,
he said. The plant will run on gas from the nearby Akkas field,
he said.  Conflict, Sabotage  Iraq’s electricity plants and distribution system have
suffered through years of conflict, sanctions and sabotage.
Iraqis receive power from the national grid for an average of
about one hour in every five. Frequent outages hamper economic
reconstruction, and protests over unreliable electricity
supplies have made the issue a major concern of the government.  Former Electricity Minister Karim Wahid resigned last June
after two people were killed in riots over blackouts and power
rationing. Prime Minister Nuri al-Maliki pledged to address the
problem after forming his new government in December.  A group of South Korean companies signed contracts on April
7 to build 25 power stations, half of 50 that are planned at a
total value of $6.25 billion.  Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  and  Man SE (MAN)  are
among companies that have bid for the remaining 25 plants,
Electricity Minister Raad Shallal said on March 23.  The government also invited bids in December for the
construction of four bigger plants that would raise generating
capacity by a combined 2,750 megawatts. Those bids will be for a
1,250-megawatt plant near Basra, and three plants of 500
megawatts each in the cities of Samawa, Diwaniya and Amarah.  Power supply this summer will improve to an average of
eight hours a day nationwide, up from about six hours a day last
summer, Shallal said last month. Iraq produces 7,000 megawatts
and imports an additional 1,000 megawatts, while demand is about
14,000 megawatts, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nayla Razzouk in Amman at 
 nrazzouk2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  