-- ‘Fool in the Shower’ to Give Fed a Good Scalding: Caroline Baum
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   B a u m
-- 2012-01-26T01:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/-fool-in-the-shower-to-give-fed-a-good-scalding-caroline-baum.html
Long and variable lags. That’s all I
could think of yesterday when I read the Federal Reserve
 statement  and learned that economic conditions “are likely to
warrant exceptionally low levels for the federal funds rate at
least through late 2014.”  My first instinct was to mark the date on my household
calendar, but I couldn’t find one that goes out that far!  What the Fed is saying, in essence, is that as the economy
improves, it’s appropriate to provide as much stimulus, or
support, as it did in late 2008, when the economy was
contracting and the financial system was imploding.  This is a dramatic shift. Given the long and variable lags
with which monetary policy operates, past Fed officials at least
paid lip service to the notion of acting preemptively:
withdrawing excess stimulus -- a fancy way of saying they will
raise  interest rates  -- as the economy improved.  Not so the current committee, which is tilted toward doves
after the annual rotation of voting members. This group seems to
think it should “continue to ease as long as there is economic
slack,” said  Stephen Stanley , chief economist at Pierpont
Securities LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut . “It’s a classic,
elemental mistake,” he said, one described by the late Nobel
economist  Milton Friedman  as the “fool in the shower.”  The fool turns on the water in the shower, steps in and
finds that it’s still cold. So he turns the knob all the way to
hot, only to get scalded when the water heats up with a
predictable lag.  Encouraging Risk  The application to monetary policy is obvious. Yet Fed
chief  Ben Bernanke  and his committee seem certain they can use
their communication strategy to placate the  bond market .  Good luck with that. The market is as data-driven as the
Fed -- and reacts a whole lot faster. When the economy turns,
and turns with a vengeance, the Fed won’t know what hit it. It
will be staring at a $2.9 trillion balance sheet, including a
 portfolio  of mortgage and Treasury securities. More than 90
percent of its Treasuries carry maturities of one year or more
and are subject to bigger losses from rising interest rates than
the short-term bills the Fed traditionally holds.  In addition, the Fed will face a chasm between the current
funds rate and something close to the long-term neutral rate of
4 percent to 4.5 percent, according to the Fed’s long-run
 interest-rate projections , released for the first time
yesterday. It will have to contend with the consequences of
negative inflation-adjusted interest rates, and all the risk
that implies.  Think of the incentives the Fed is creating. In explaining
how monetary policy works when the overnight rate is at zero,
Bernanke relies on something known as the portfolio balance
channel theory. The idea is that when the Fed buys long-term
Treasuries, it depresses yields and forces investors to buy
other assets that carry increased credit or interest-rate risk,
such as long-term corporate bonds, mortgages and equities.  To the extent that higher stock prices and lower bond
yields facilitate investment, employment and production, it’s
beneficial for the economy. Often the result is too much of a
good thing, such as a misallocation of capital into a tax-
advantaged, nonproductive asset such as housing. Or  Wall Street 
may create risk with some new, financially engineered product.  The bottom line is, when financial institutions can borrow
for free and are encouraged, verbally and nonverbally, to take
risk, eventually they will.  Why should we expect the outcome to be any different than
the last time, when the Fed held the benchmark rate too low for
too long in 2003 and 2004 and fueled a housing bubble? No one
knows what kind of risk investors will take. (Don’t tell anyone:
Neither do the regulators.)  Broken Promises  That’s not all. The Fed is bound to find itself with what
academics refer to as a “time inconsistency problem,”
according to Stanley. Often it may be advantageous to advertise
one policy -- in this case, holding interest rates low for years
-- in order to steer expectations and get maximum effect. But
the Fed “can’t follow through on its promise if conditions
dictate something else,” Stanley said.  The choice, then, is: “stick to the promise and run bad
policy, or change policy and lose credibility.”  Then there’s the small matter of forecasting accuracy.
Anyone who’s perused the recently released transcripts from 2006
knows that to err is human. The  housing bubble  that was already
in the process of deflating and about to engulf the U.S. and
global economy was a tiny blip on the Fed’s radar screen. Former
Governor Susan Bies, a banker by training, was one of the lone
voices expressing concern about mortgage risk. (Maybe real world
experience matters.) Meanwhile, the Fed’s econometric models
were mum.  Asked about the Fed’s track record at yesterday’s  news
conference , Bernanke said the ability to forecast several years
out was “limited.” The Fed’s projections are “not
unconditional pledges” and are “subject to revision,” he
said.  Two policy makers -- no names were attached to the
forecasts -- expect the funds rate to first begin rising in
2016. (My money is on  New York  Fed President Bill Dudley and
Governor  Janet Yellen .) That would mean eight years of 0 percent
interest rates. There will be a revolution in this country
before then if the economy is lousy enough to warrant 0 percent
interest rates for that long. Even the fool in the shower knows
that.  ( Caroline Baum , author of “Just What I Said,” is a
Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions expressed are her own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Caroline Baum in New York at 
 cabaum@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net . 