-- ‘Stop-Newt’ Republicans Confront New Base
-- B y   J u l i e   H i r s c h f e l d   D a v i s
-- 2012-01-26T20:28:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/-stop-newt-republicans-confront-base-unwilling-to-take-orders.html
Two days after Newt Gingrich
defeated  Mitt Romney  in the  South Carolina  presidential primary
one of Romney’s big-name backers offered a grim prediction for
his fellow Republicans.  “The possibility of Newt Gingrich being our nominee
against  Barack Obama  I think is essentially handing the election
over to Obama,” former Minnesota Governor Tim Pawlenty told
reporters on a Jan. 23 conference call. “I think that’s shared
by a lot of folks in the Republican Party.”  Pawlenty’s comments echoed those being uttered publicly and
behind the scenes by elected Republicans, party activists,
fundraisers and pundits, who represent a portion of the party
establishment -- a “stop-Newt” caucus -- populated largely by
people who have known the former U.S. House speaker for decades.  The question is: Can they?  For two decades, the Republican Party has seen an erosion
of its traditional, top-down hierarchy, a decline aided by
Gingrich himself in 1990 when he led a House revolt against a
budget agreement negotiated by President  George H.W. Bush  that
raised taxes. The rise of the anti-tax Tea Party wing in 2009
splintered the internal levers of power further, making it even
harder to impose a choice on the rank and file.  “There really is no Republican establishment left that can
control anything,” said  Matthew Dowd , a onetime aide to
President  George W. Bush  and now a Bloomberg Television
contributor. “Some try to act like they are in charge, but the
fraternity is now running the campus.”  South Carolina Dynamics  Those dynamics were on display in South Carolina. Romney, a
former Massachusetts governor, lost by 12 percentage points even
after campaigning throughout the state with Governor Nikki Haley
and just a day after receiving the endorsement of Virginia
Governor Bob McDonnell, the chairman of the  Republican Governors
Association . Haley, who rose to power with Tea Party backing,
didn’t deliver either her state or its grassroots activists.  Meanwhile, Gingrich’s campaign gained momentum after Sarah Palin, the former Alaska governor who also has support from the
Tea Party faction, said she’d vote for Gingrich in South
Carolina if only to extend the length of the primary.  Similar signs of an insurgence came to light in the 2010
midterm elections, when Nevada voters tapped Sharron Angle -- a
Tea Party-endorsed politician opposed by many of the state’s
prominent Republicans -- to challenge Senate Majority Leader
Harry Reid. And Delaware Republicans chose Christine O’Donnell
over former governor and nine-term U.S. House Representative
 Mike Castle  to seek an open Senate seat. Both Angle and
O’Donnell lost.  Voters ‘in Charge’  “The voters are now in charge, and Republican leaders need
to come to terms with that,” Dowd said. “The media needs to
drop the myth that there is a Republican establishment capable
of orchestrating anything more than a one-float GOP parade.”  Romney’s campaign, backed by well-known party strategists
and fundraisers, has kept up a steady rollout of endorsement
announcements from Republican elected leaders that demonstrate
his broad support among the insiders. As of Jan. 20, he had the
nods of five governors, 14 senators and 59 U.S. House members.
That compares with two governors and a dozen congressmen who
have endorsed Gingrich, according to Democracy in Action, a
political web site that tracks endorsements.  ‘Terrified About Newt’  “There are a lot of major players in the  Republican Party 
who are terrified about Newt,” said Gary Gerstle, a specialist
on social and political movements a  Vanderbilt University  in
Nashville,  Tennessee . “At a more conventional moment in
American politics, the establishment would count for a lot more,
but this is not a conventional moment. There are now big
segments of the Republican Party that will not bow down to the
establishment.”  Gingrich -- who served 20 years in Congress, four of them
as speaker, and then began a lucrative career in  Washington 
consulting on federal policy -- has been working to turn party
leaders’ angst about his candidacy to his advantage, portraying
himself as a candidate feared by the ruling class.  Campaigning today in Mount Dora,  Florida , Gingrich called
Romney’s campaign attacks against him “the desperate last stand
of the old order throwing the kitchen sink, hoping something
sticks.” He added that when he speaks out about it, “the
entire establishment jumps up and says, ‘That’s cheating. How
can you tell the truth? Don’t you know that’s politically
incorrect?’”  Internal Power Struggle  The Romney-Gingrich face-off is bringing the simmering
power struggle between the Republican grassroots and the party
establishment to the fore, said Richard Viguerie, a veteran
Republican direct-mail strategist and the chairman of
ConservativeHQ.com.  “There is a war going on here between the grassroots and
the establishment,” said Viguerie, who is backing former
Pennsylvania Senator  Rick Santorum . “People in the grassroots
see the Republican establishment as part of the problem, not
part of the solution, and Gingrich has the ability to go over
the heads of the Republican leaders.”  Some political analysts and Gingrich backers argue he has
harnessed a transformed landscape of presidential politics, in
which technology and social media -- decentralized means of
communication with voters -- are powerful forces, and campaign
money flows more freely from outside traditional party channels.  Social Media  Gingrich has capitalized on the social media networks
Facebook and Twitter to trumpet his message, and his campaign
has benefited from the super-PAC Winning Our Future, largely
funded by casino magnate  Sheldon Adelson , that is raising and
spending unlimited sums on his behalf. The  Supreme Court 
legalized such groups in the 2010 ruling Citizens United v.
Federal Election Commission.  “It’s a different communications beast, a different
communications infrastructure and vehicle out there today” than
in years past, former Oklahoma Congressman J.C. Watts told
reporters Jan. 23. “Newt tapped into something that I think
Republicans like. I think there is a backlash.”  At the root of the concern about Gingrich is whether he
will be able to appeal to the broader U.S. electorate. Polls
indicate that he has high unfavorable ratings and wouldn’t fare
well in a head-to-head matchup against Obama. A January Gallup
 study  found that all national political figures are viewed
negatively.  ‘Intensely Negative’  Still, “Americans have become more intensely negative in
their evaluations of  Newt Gingrich  -- who now has the lowest
score overall,” the study concluded.  Some prominent Republicans say there isn’t yet enough of a
consensus that Gingrich is unelectable to give rise to a
concerted effort among party operatives to thwart his ascent.  “I haven’t seen that there’s an all-hands-on-deck movement
to try to block any candidate -- Newt or anyone else,” said
 Frank Donatelli , the chairman of GOPAC, a training organization
for state and local Republican candidates once headed by
Gingrich, and a former top party official.  The last time there was such an effort was in 1996, he
added, after Pat Buchanan won the  New Hampshire  primary and
prominent Republicans quickly coalesced around  Bob Dole , who
ultimately claimed the nomination.  “I haven’t heard that kind of alarm emanating about
Newt,” Donatelli said.  Other prominent Republicans are sounding just such a
warning. Dole endorsed Romney today, writing in a letter that
the party should nominate the former governor “if we want to
avoid an Obama landslide in November.”  Former Pennsylvania Congressman Bob Walker, a senior
adviser to Gingrich’s campaign, said that rationale is
backfiring on Romney with voters.  “It took them a little bit of time to realize that Newt
Gingrich is capable of beating Obama, but now, I don’t think
that they’re going to listen to party bosses anymore,” Walker
said. “Newt is basically channeling the people’s anger.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Hirschfeld Davis in Washington at 
 jdavis159@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  