-- 3i Says Earnings at Firms ‘Softening’
-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y
-- 2012-01-26T08:48:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/3i-says-earnings-at-companies-softening-as-asset-sales-jump.html
3i Group Plc ,  Europe ’s biggest
publicly traded private-equity firm, said earnings at some of
the companies it owns have been “softening” since November as
it ramped up the pace of asset sales.  The firm reaped 751 million pounds ($1.18 billion) from
disposals in the nine months through December, up from 398
million pounds in the year-earlier period, London-based 3i said
in a statement today. The firm invested 530 million pounds in
the period, up from 510 million pounds.  “The operating environment is challenging given the
deterioration in the macro-economic outlook and continued market
uncertainty,” Chief Executive Officer Michael Queen said in the
statement. “Conditions have not improved since” November,
“which has been reflected in a softening in the earnings
performance of some of the portfolio over this period.”  3i, one of the U.K.’s oldest private-equity firms, said in
November it would more than double its dividend for the year
after the European sovereign debt crisis cut the value of its
assets by 11 percent at the end of September. Queen boosted the
dividend to help meet a target of 15 percent return on equity
over a five-year period. He is also cutting costs and jobs.  ‘Increasingly Vulnerable’  Asset sales in the third quarter included 200 million
pounds in proceeds from the disposal of MWM Holding GmbH, a
German engine maker, Julia Wilson, 3i’s finance director, said
today in a conference call. New investments totaled 82 million
pounds, down from 183 million pounds a year earlier.  “We continue to believe 3i is increasingly vulnerable to a
major restructuring or bid approach,” Iain Scouller, an analyst
at Oriel Securities Ltd., said in a note today. “There does not
appear an immediate catalyst such as realization gains or
multiples on comparable listed mid and small caps to start
moving the net asset value upwards again.”  Scouller estimates that 3i shares are trading at a 35
percent discount to net asset value. The  shares  slid 1.6 percent
to 182.1 pence in London trading at 8:40 a.m. today, giving the
company a market value of 1.77 billion pounds.  Dealmaking activity has slumped to “extremely low levels”
and is “particularly hard to predict” in 2012 largely because
of uncertainties surrounding the euro region, 3i’s Wilson said.  Private-equity firms announced $26 billion in deals in the
last quarter of 2011, a third less than in the same period a
year earlier, as the euro debt crisis deepened, leading banks to
curb lending and companies to hold onto their assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anne-Sylvaine Chassany in Paris at 
 achassany@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at 
 eevans3@bloomberg.net  