-- 3M Profit Beats Estimates as Auto, Aerospace Demand Rise
-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k
-- 2012-01-26T21:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/3m-profit-tops-estimates-amid-auto-demand.html
3M Co. (MMM) , the maker of Post-it Notes
and fuel system tuneup kits, reported higher profit than
analysts had estimated as demand increased for aerospace and
auto industry products.  Net income  rose 2.8 percent to $954 million, or $1.35 a
share, from $928 million, or $1.28, a year earlier, the  St.
Paul , Minnesota-based company said today in a statement. The
 average  of 16 estimates compiled by Bloomberg was $1.31.  “U.S.-based industrial segments led the charge,” C.  Stephen Tusa , an  analyst  at JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York  who
rates the shares “neutral,” said in a note today. “This was a
better quarter for 3M when compared to recent misses.”  3M has benefited as U.S. auto sales rose 10 percent last
year and as aircraft makers have boosted production amid demand
for more fuel-efficient planes. Sales for 3M’s industrial and
transportation unit increased 14 percent during the quarter.  The company in October had reduced its full-year profit
 forecast  for 2011, citing slowing growth, especially in western
 Europe  and the electronics industry. 3M today affirmed its 2012
forecast of earnings per share of $6.25 to $6.50.  3M’s quarterly  sales  rose 5.7 percent from a year earlier
to $7.09 billion, matching analysts’ estimates. Excluding
acquisitions and foreign exchange, revenue was up 3.3 percent.  The sales gain for the industrial and transportation unit
helped overcome revenue declines of 8.9 percent for display and
graphics and 2.7 percent for electronics and communications.
Other units with increases were health care, 5.3 percent;
consumer and office, 6 percent; and safety, 9.3 percent.  ‘Resilient’ Results  “We were resilient enough to achieve these results in the
face of deteriorating demand in both western Europe and consumer
electronics,” Chief Executive Officer  George Buckley  said in
the statement.  3M rose 1.3 percent to $87.58 at the close in New York. The
 shares  have declined 2.2 percent during the past 12 months, as
the  Standard & Poor’s  500 index has gained 1.7 percent.  Optical film sales in the quarter fell 17 percent, based on
local currencies, on lower demand from makers of liquid-crystal-
display televisions. Weak sales for electronics will continue,
Chief Operating Officer Inge Thulin told analysts on a
conference call today.  The drop in electronics-related sales was caused by
“production adjustment across much of the industry,” he said.
“We expect these adjustments will continue until inventories
are back in line with demand.”  Acquisition Effect  The company on Jan. 3 agreed to buy Avery Dennison Corp.’s
office products unit, the market leader in the label business,
for $550 million. 3M said today that it expects cost savings of
as much as $80 million over three years and that the purchase
will reduce earnings by 6 cents a share in the first 12 months.  3M said it plans to increase pension contributions this
year to $800 million to $1 billion, from $600 million last year.
The company said it bought back $2.7 billion of shares in 2011.  First-quarter earnings will be reduced by 4 cents a share
for restructuring, including a voluntary early retirement
program in the U.S., 3M said. Annual earnings won’t be affected
because of benefits later in the year from the restructuring,
Chief Financial Officer David Meline said on the call.  3M didn’t discuss whether Buckley will retire Feb. 23 under
a  renewing contract  that terminates on his 65th birthday, or
have his tenure extended. Buckley said on the call that the
board will announce a decision “at the appropriate time.” In
December, Buckley said he would like to stay on as CEO.  ‘Not the Informer’  “They are trying to figure out what is the best way
forward,” he said today. “I don’t think there’s much else I
can say about it because, in a sense, I’m being informed, not
the informer.”  3M in May named Thulin, who was director of international
operations, as chief operating officer. Analysts such as Jeff
Windau of Edward Jones & Co. said then that the appointment
bolstered the idea that Thulin is a likely candidate to replace
Buckley.  “We’d love to see Buckley stick around for quite a
while,” said Kevin Walkush, an analyst at Jensen Investment
Management in  Chicago , which held 2.9 million 3M  shares  as of
September. “We like where the company is going under his
leadership.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net  