-- Aboriginal Leaders Condemn Clashes After Australian Police Rescue Gillard
-- B y   M i c h a e l   H e a t h
-- 2012-01-27T07:03:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/aboriginal-leaders-condemn-clashes-involving-pm.html
Australian indigenous leaders
condemned clashes between aboriginal protesters and riot police
that forced officers to rescue Prime Minister  Julia Gillard  and
opposition leader Tony Abbott in the nation’s capital.  Dozens of indigenous protesters banged on the windows of a
Canberra restaurant where Gillard and Abbott attended a function
yesterday for Australia Day, a holiday marking the arrival of
white settlers in the country. The prime minister and opposition
leader were rushed out of the building by security officers and
spirited away in government cars to cries of “racist” and
“shame” from the protesters.  The demonstrators were responding to comments by Abbott
earlier in the day when he was questioned whether it was time to
move an aboriginal protest camp, known as the Tent Embassy, that
has been running for 40 years in front of the nation’s former
parliament house. Aborigines remain the poorest and most
disadvantaged group in Australian society more than 200 years
after Europeans settled in 1788.  “It was a disgraceful situation -- I was shocked when I
saw the scenes,” Warren Mundine, an Aboriginal leader and
former president of the governing  Labor Party , said today in an
interview broadcast on  Sky News . “They blew up a statement that
 Tony Abbott  made that was very harmless.”  Abbott told reporters yesterday that the nation’s
indigenous population could be “very proud of the respect in
which they are held by every Australian.”  “I think it probably is time to move on,” Abbott added.  Riot Officers  Mundine said the opposition leader’s comments didn’t
justify what happened later at the Canberra restaurant, where
riot officers were forced to form a cordon to stop protesters
from banging on the windows.  Television footage inside the venue showed Gillard’s
security detail warning that the glass could break at any time
and recommending the prime minister leave the scene. Gillard
then asked that Abbott also be escorted out.  As Gillard was rushed from the scene she stumbled and lost
her shoe. A member of the Tent Embassy later found the footwear
and has offered to return it as an act of reconciliation, the
Daily Telegraph newspaper reported.  Abbott told reporters today he was grateful to the prime
minister and her protection detail for looking after them both
in what was “a potentially ugly situation.” He defended his
comments, saying he is “proud” of the steps toward
reconciliation that have been achieved and that “any suggestion
that  Australia  is fixated in the same place that we were in 40
years ago on this issue is just dead wrong.”  ‘On a Journey’  Gillard told reporters today that Australia is “on a
journey to genuine reconciliation” and said she had no concerns
about her security yesterday. “I was always incredibly
confident the police would do everything they needed to do,”
she said.  The Australian Federal Police said it is investigating
whether any offences were committed.  A group of aborigines from the Tent Embassy today marched
to the front of parliament house, which was barred by police,
and set fire to a national flag brought with them. They chanted
slogans including “Who owns this land? We do” and “Always
was, always will be aboriginal land.”  50,000 Years  Aboriginal people populated Australia at least 50,000 years
before Europeans settled. There are about 400,000 indigenous
Australians, who make up 2 percent of the population. Australia
Day marks the date in 1788 when Captain Arthur Phillip,
commander of the first fleet of convict ships from Britain,
landed in Sydney Cove, the site of the modern-day city. Many
Aborigines and their supporters refer to the date as Invasion
Day.  Gillard’s predecessor,  Kevin Rudd  offered the nation’s
first apology to Aborigines taken from their families for
assimilation with the white community, saying the policy was a
“blemished chapter” in the nation’s history.  From 1910 to 1970, up to one-third of indigenous children
were removed from their families and communities and placed in
institutions, church missions or the homes of white Australians,
according to a government-commissioned report published in 1997.
The inquiry found many children lost their cultures, languages,
heritage and lands, and recommended reparation be made.  Indigenous leader Mick Gooda also condemned the behavior
yesterday, saying the reaction to Abbott’s remarks was “over
the top and I don’t think it paints us in a very good light
across Australia.”  “What we saw yesterday was images of violent confrontation
that we don’t need,” Gooda, the Aboriginal and Torres Strait
Islander social justice commissioner, told Sky News.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Michael Heath  in Sydney at 
 mheath1@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Phang at 
 sphang@bloomberg.net  