-- Adelphia’s Rigases Win Dismissal of Tax Case After Prosecutors End Fight
-- B y   D a v i d   V o r e a c o s
-- 2012-01-26T20:41:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/adelphia-s-rigases-tax-case-should-be-tossed-u-s-says-after-6-year-fight.html
A federal judge dismissed a six-
year-old tax indictment of  Adelphia Communications Corp. (ADELQ)  founder
 John Rigas  and his son Timothy, who are already in prison for
looting the company.  U.S. District Judge John E. Jones III tossed out a 2005
indictment today, one day after U.S. prosecutors said they
wanted to call off the fight. John Rigas, 86, is serving 12
years and is projected to get out at age 92.  Timothy Rigas , 55,
is serving 17 years. They were convicted in 2004 in federal
court in New York.  “This endeavor is a highly questionable use of the
increasingly scarce resources of the federal government,” Jones
wrote in federal court in Williamsport, Pennsylvania.  “What sort of punishment could we possible mete out that
makes sense?,” Jones wrote. “As Kenny Rogers sang in his hit
song The Gambler, ‘You got to know when to hold ‘em, know when
to fold ‘em.’ Today, the government has appropriately decided to
fold ‘em, and has blessedly elected to end this aspect of the
unfortunate Rigas saga.’’  The Rigases were convicted in 2004 for looting Adelphia and
lying about finances at the company, which was once the fifth-
largest U.S. cable TV provider.  U.S. prosecutors in  Pennsylvania  charged the men with
conspiring to cheat the  Internal Revenue Service  out of
$483 million in taxes on $1.8 billion they stole. They also
faced eight counts of  tax evasion . John Rigas was accused of
failing to pay $109.2 million and Timothy Rigas with dodging
$174.8 million.  ‘We’re Pleased’  ‘‘This case never should have been brought,’’ said Rigas
attorney Lawrence McMichael. ‘‘We’re pleased that the government
decided to drop it.’’  On Jan. 18, Jones dismissed the conspiracy count after the
 U.S. Court of Appeals  in Philadelphia ordered him in October
2009 to review the charge to determine whether it amounted to
prosecution for the same crime twice.  In tossing the count, Jones said that prosecuting the
Rigases for conspiracy would amount to double jeopardy because
the government had no evidence that the scheme in the
Pennsylvania case was different from that in the  New York  case.  Jones today dismissed the tax-evasion charges.  ‘‘While sufficient evidence exists to obtain a conviction
on the remaining tax evasion counts, the convictions likely will
not result in substantial, additional prison time,’’ U.S.
Attorney Peter Smith said in a motion yesterday. Prosecutors
also face ‘‘significant limitations’’ on collecting restitution,
he said.  Case Re-Examined  In light of the judge’s Jan. 18 ruling, Smith and the tax
division of the  Justice Department  re-examined the case,
according to the government’s motion. Prosecutors decided to
drop their prosecution while the Internal Revenue Service
pursues a civil administrative case, the government said.  The tax agency agreed the case can better be handled
through administrative and civil processes, according to the
filing.  ‘‘In the absence of a substantial federal interest further
prosecution will not be a prudent expenditure of limited
prosecutorial resources,” it said.  Adelphia collapsed in 2002 and its assets were sold to Time
Warner Inc. and Comcast Corp.  The Rigases, who entered a federal prison in  North Carolina 
in August 2007, were transferred last year to the Allenwood
Federal Correctional Institution in White Deer, Pennsylvania.
The Allenwood facility is close to their home in Coudersport,
Pennsylvania.  The Rigases were convicted in federal court in New York of
 securities fraud  and bank fraud, as well as conspiring to commit
securities fraud, bank fraud, falsify books and records and make
false statements to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Pennsylvania case is U.S. v. Rigas, 05-cr-402, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania (Williamsport).  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Voreacos in  Newark ,  New Jersey ,
at   dvoreacos@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 