-- Ageas Climbs as BNP Offer for CASHES Cuts Risks, Volatility
-- B y   J o h n   M a r t e n s
-- 2012-01-26T17:40:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/ageas-climbs-as-bnp-offer-for-cashes-cuts-risk-earnings-swings.html
Ageas, the majority owner of
 Belgium ’s biggest life insurer, rose to a six-month high in
Brussels trading after reaching an agreement with  BNP Paribas SA (BNP) 
to settle some remaining liabilities from its Fortis legacy.  Ageas surged 16 cents, or 11 percent, to 1.61 euros at the
5:40 p.m. close of  trading  on Euronext Brussels, the highest
close since July 22. The insurer expects net cash proceeds of at
least 475 million euros ($625 million) and will see a reduction
in its credit risk on  Fortis Bank SA/NV (FBAVP)  of as much as 4 billion
euros, the company, based in Brussels and Utrecht, said today in
a statement.  The settlement involves BNP Paribas making an offer, at a
discount to face value, for 3 billion euros of floating-rate,
undated notes that can be handed over for  Ageas (AGS)  shares. These
so-called CASHES were originally sold by Fortis Bank, which will
also reimburse 1 billion euros of perpetual subordinated notes,
most of which are held by Ageas, because these hybrid bonds will
lose their equity status under Basel III bank capital rules.  “The transaction is more relevant to Ageas than it is to
BNP Paribas,”  Albert Ploegh  and Tom van Kempen, analysts at ING
Groep NV in Amsterdam, wrote in an investor note. “This makes
Ageas more investable.”  If the offer is successful, it will make Ageas’s earnings
less volatile because changes in the market value of both notes
are currently reflected in the insurer’s  quarterly accounts .  Tender Offer  Ageas, which was created out of the insurance remains of
Fortis, pays quarterly interest to Fortis Bank to compensate its
former banking unit for the decline in the value of Ageas shares
the bank owns to reimburse the undated convertible bonds it sold
in November 2007. Fortis Bank is now  controlled  by BNP Paribas,
which bought a 75 percent stake from the Belgian state in May
2009.  Under the terms of the agreement, BNP Paribas began a
tender offer today for the undated convertible notes and will
purchase the bonds for 45 percent to 47.5 percent of face value,
on condition that holders of at least 50 percent of the
outstanding notes tender their securities.  BNP Paribas will then convert the notes it bought into
Ageas shares, diluting the insurer’s per-share earnings by as
much as 5 percent. The Paris-based bank agreed not to sell the
shares for at least six months, and will receive a compensation
payment from Ageas. The insurer expects to pay 200 million euros
to 475 million euros and said it will make an annual payment
should BNP Paribas fail to buy all of the outstanding notes.  Ageas will receive 953 million euros from Fortis Bank as
the Belgian banking unit of BNP Paribas reimburses the floating-
rate perpetual subordinated notes it sold in 2001. Ageas bought
95 percent of the bonds in September after Fortis Bank decided
not to redeem the notes on their first call date. The insurer
spent 953 million euros in cash because it didn’t receive
shareholder backing at its annual meetings to issue shares.  The reimbursement will enable Ageas to reverse earlier
writedowns on the notes, boosting first-quarter pretax earnings
by 159 million euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Martens in Brussels at 
 jmartens1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at   jcolten@bloomberg.net  