-- Ahmadinejad Says Iran Open to Renewed Talks With West on Nuclear Program
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-01-27T00:57:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/ahmadinejad-says-iran-open-to-renewed-negotiations-on-its-nuclear-program.html
Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said his country is willing to revive talks on its
nuclear program and accused Western countries of dodging
discussions, the state-run  Fars  news agency reported.  “They claim that Iran doesn’t want negotiations but it
isn’t so,” Ahmadinejad said yesterday in the southeastern
province of Kerman. “Every time they seek pretexts, and as we
approach talks they issue resolutions so that perhaps
negotiations don’t take place.”  European Union foreign ministers agreed on Jan. 23 to ban
oil petrochemical imports from Iran and to freeze Iranian
central bank assets. EU foreign policy chief  Catherine Ashton 
said the embargo was aimed at pressing the Iranian government to
resume negotiations over its nuclear program.  Iran ’s Foreign Ministry spokesman said on Jan. 22 that only
discussions, and not sanctions, can resolve the standoff over
the country’s atomic program. German Foreign Minister  Guido Westerwelle  said on Jan. 20 that the U.S. and the EU want Iran
to return to talks and that if Iran’s leaders agree to a
“serious dialogue,” they must be prepared to discuss steps to
give up “options for nuclear weapons.”  “Just meetings for propaganda and show is not what we are
seeking,” Westerwelle said.  Western powers, including the U.S., say  Iran’s nuclear
program  is aimed at weapons development, a charge Iran denies.  Devaluation  In an effort to reduce the black market’s influence as
international sanctions undermine confidence in the currency,
Iran’s central bank said it will devalue the rial by about 8.5
percent against the  U.S. dollar , setting a new  exchange rate .  Iran will fix the rial rate at 12,260 to the dollar as of
Jan. 28 and will meet all demand for foreign currencies through
banks, central bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani said , according to
the state-run Mehr news agency. The reference exchange rate on
the central bank’s  website  yesterday was 11,296 per dollar.  The decision follows a Jan. 26 announcement that the
 interest rate  paid on rial savings at local banks will be raised
to as much as 21 percent from between 12.5 percent and 15
percent, above the current inflation rate of 20.6 percent.  Iranians had already been paying far more than the central
bank’s reference rate for dollars. The currency strengthened on
local markets to about 19,000 from a record 23,000 per dollar
after the announcement of higher interest rates, Donya-e-Eqtesed
newspaper reported yesterday.  Future Talks  Ahmadinejad played down the significance of the EU embargo,
saying Iran doesn’t need to sell oil to European nations. That
echoes a Jan. 23 Oil Ministry statement that Iran has “no
concerns” about finding new customers for its crude.  Tighter sanctions will harm Iran’s population rather than
the government, Ahmadinejad said yesterday. Iran has long
insisted that the punitive measures are insignificant.  “The U.S. says sanctions against Iran are directed at
officials, not the people, but these types of sanctions will
affect the core of the population and won’t harm officials,” he
told factory workers in Kerman. “The West is targeting our
population.”  Iran last held talks with world powers in January 2011 and
negotiations broke down without any commitments to hold future
discussions. Ashton said at the time she was “disappointed”
that Iran demanded an end to United Nations sanctions before
substantive talks about its nuclear work could begin.  Foreign Minister  Ali Akbar Salehi  said on Jan. 19 that
 Turkey  will give a letter from Iran to Ashton asking to revive
talks. In the letter, Iran asks Ashton to decide on a place and
a time for negotiations, he said at an Ankara press conference.  Iran is the second-largest producer in the Organization of
Petroleum Exporting Countries.  Europe  is collectively the
second-largest buyer of Iranian oil after  China , which has
criticized the punitive U.S. and European measures.  “To blindly pressure and impose sanctions on Iran are not
constructive approaches,” China’s Foreign Ministry said
yesterday in a statement, according to the state-run Xinhua news
agency. The Chinese government hopes all parties will seek
solutions that bring peace and stability, Xinhua said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  