-- Maine Gay-Rights Groups Submit 105,000 Names to Back Marriage Referendum
-- B y   E s m é   E .   D e p r e z
-- 2012-01-26T19:49:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/maine-gay-rights-groups-submit-105-000-names-to-back-marriage-referendum.html
Gay-marriage advocates in  Maine (STOME1) 
submitted almost twice the names needed to get a referendum to
legalize the practice on November’s ballot, three years after
voters rejected a similar measure.  A coalition of supporters led by EqualityMaine delivered
more than 105,000 signatures to the secretary of state for
verification today, Betsy Smith, the Portland-based group’s
executive director, said in a statement.  “The number of signatures we gathered and the thoughtful
conversations we’ve been having with voters tell us that Mainers
are eager to speak on this question again,” said Smith, who
gathered with allies at the state house in Augusta. “Our
polling shows a 54 percent majority of support for same-sex
marriage in Maine. Many Mainers have changed their minds and
want a chance to bring equality and fairness to our state.”  Maine  voters would be the first in the U.S. to give same-
sex partners the right to wed. Court rulings or legislation led
to the change in six states and the  District of Columbia . Voters
have rejected legalization in all 31 referendums on the issue,
according to Freedom to Marry, a New York-based national
advocacy organization.  National Debate  At least five other states are tackling the issue this
year. New Jersey Democrats are pushing a bill to legalize gay
vows in the face of a veto threat from Governor  Chris Christie .
The Republican governor said yesterday that a referendum is an
“alternative path” to resolving the issue there.  Lawmakers in Washington and  Maryland  are also pushing
legalization bills, while voters in  North Carolina  and  Minnesota 
will be asked to bar the practice through constitutional
amendments.  Maine voters will spurn legalization again, said Bob
Emrich, who helped lead the 2009 campaign.  “The only people who will benefit will be the people who
sell advertising,” Emrich said in a telephone interview from
Plymouth, where he’s a pastor at Emmanuel Bible Baptist Church.
He’s regrouping his coalition, he said.  Maine’s proposed initiative would ask voters: “Do you
favor a law allowing marriage licenses for same-sex couples, and
that protects religious freedom by ensuring that no religion or
clergy be required to perform such a marriage in violation of
their religious beliefs?”  In 2009, voters turned down 53 percent to 47 percent a law
permitting the practice that was championed by Democratic
lawmakers and signed by then-Governor John Baldacci, also a
Democrat.  In 2010, Republicans won control of both legislative
chambers and the governor’s office for the first time since
1966.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Esmé E. Deprez in New York at 
 edeprez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  