-- Airbus Offers Two-Step Fix on A380 Wing Cracks After Manufacturing Defect
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/airbus-offers-two-step-fix-on-a380-wing-cracks-after-manufacturing-defect.html
Airbus (EAD)  SAS said it’s working on a
two-step fix of cracked wing brackets on its A380 that emerged
during inspections and stem from a combination of manufacturing
processes and materials used on the world’s biggest airliner.  Short-term repairs will take five days for each plane and
require cutting out the affected wing bracket area and putting
in a new piece, said  Tom Williams , Airbus head of programs. A
longer term solution will include new materials and a different
way of assembly, he said. The findings suggest all A380s built
so far will eventually need inspections and fixes, Williams said.  “The A380 is safe to fly,” Williams told reporters at a
briefing in Dublin. “We’ve taken short-term steps to address
the issue and we are working on a longer-term solution.”  The cracks have appeared just as Airbus is starting to move
beyond the losses linked to production glitches that had dogged
the airliner for years. Airbus parent European Aeronautic, Space
& Defence Co. had aimed to break even on the model by 2015, as
it wins new customers and ramps up production.  Initially, hairline cracks discovered in some A380 wings in
late December were determined to be not very serious, with
Airbus calling for fixes only at four-year checks.  A second series of bigger cracks around the central part of
the wing were deemed a graver discovery, with European air
safety regulators asking that 20 of the double-decker planes be
inspected, six within four days, and the rest within six weeks.  Wing Ribs  The cracks can be traced to the choice of a less flexible
aluminum alloy used to make the wing brackets, the fashion in
which fasteners are put through holes, and the stresses involved
in fitting portions of the wing together, Williams said.  Each set of wings has some 4,000 so-called wing-rib feet,
which attach the wing’s upper and lower skins to ribs running
throughout the wing, though only a ‘handful’ of brackets on any
given plane were found to have cracks, Wiliams said.  The ribs aren’t the primary load-carrying structure, which
is handled by the front and rear spars, or long beams that run
through the plane’s wing, and the skins, Williams said.  “It’s not a massive issue,” said  Nick Cunningham , an
analyst at London-based Agency Partners. “They just need to put
the fix in place, execute it and move on,” he said.  A total of 253 A380s have been ordered by 19 customers,
with Emirates, which has ordered 90, being by far the biggest.
Dubai-based Emirates has said it was inspecting planes as needed
and has declined to offer further comment.  Singapore Airlines (SIA) , which was the first airline to fly the
A380 in  October 2007, said one of its A380s with wing cracks
has undergone repairs and is back in Service. The carrier will
go ahead with repairs on the remaining aircraft before they are
returned to service, it said in a statement today.  Emirates has 20 A380s in service, Singapore has 15,  Qantas
Airways Ltd. (QAN)  has 12,  Air France (AF)  KLM Group’s Air France has eight
 Deutsche Lufthansa AG (LHA)  has six  Korean Air Lines Co. (003490)  Ltd. has
five, and  China Southern (1055)  Co. Ltd. has two. The aircraft has two
levels and typically seats about 550 passengers in three classes.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  