-- Airline ‘Teaser Fares’ Vanish as U.S. Spurs Tax Transparency
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r
-- 2012-01-26T18:54:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/airline-teaser-fares-vanish-as-u-s-rule-spurs-tax-disclosures.html
Published fares on carriers such as
 Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL)  and  American Airlines (AMR)  will appear to jump
by hundreds of dollars today for some flights as a new U.S. rule
forces disclosure of mandatory taxes and fees in quoted prices.  While total ticket costs won’t change, airlines and travel
agencies now must show an all-in number that combines the base
fare with all required taxes and fees, according to the U.S.
Transportation Department. Airline charges for optional services
such as checked bags or in-flight Wi-Fi aren’t covered.  Gone are the “teaser fares” promoting trans-Atlantic
flights for as little as $150, which can surprise fliers when
they discover the total with all charges is closer to $800, said
Charlie Leocha, a founder of passenger-rights group  Consumer
Travel Alliance  in Springfield, Virginia.  “This is about truth in advertising, and it won’t be as
deceptive anymore,” Leocha said. “They will have to show you
the prices you can actually buy a ticket for. There’s no such
thing as a ticket to  Europe  for $150 total.”  Airlines such as Delta, American and  United Continental
Holdings Inc. (UAL) , the world’s biggest carrier, have been adjusting
advertising and data coding to prepare for the rule, as has
 Expedia Inc. (EXPE) , the largest online travel agency, spokesmen said.  Spirit Airlines Inc. (SAVE) , which has a $9 fare club that
promotes heavily discounted tickets, made the changes this week
while also accusing U.S. authorities of using the rule to
disguise the scope of fees and taxes.  ‘Hidden Agenda’  “If the government can hide taxes in your airfares, then
they can carry out their hidden agenda and quietly increase
their taxes,” Miramar, Florida-based Spirit says on
 www.keepmyfareslow.org . The website includes links to members of
Congress.  U.S. Senator  Barbara Boxer , a Democrat from  California ,
sent  a letter  today to Spirit Chief Executive Officer Ben
Baldanza expressing concern about what she called the airline’s
“deliberate attempt to deceive the flying public” about the
new fare rule.  “What the rule says is that you have to tell your
customers the full cost of a ticket,” Boxer wrote, adding that
the previous practice of showing only the base fare confused
consumers.  Spirit is “disappointed” in her letter and would like to
sit down with Boxer for a longer discussion about the issue,
Misty Pinson, a spokeswoman for the airline, said in an e-mail
message.  “We would normally expect senators to encourage First
Amendment protection,” Pinson said. “We have always shown
taxes before someone purchased. They now want them hidden. It is
wrong and we will fight for consumers.”  International Tickets  The most-visible changes for passengers may be on
international tickets, where taxes and fees passed on by
airlines account for several hundred dollars of the price and
can be double or triple the base fare amount.  For example, Delta’s website yesterday listed a round-trip
coach ticket in May from its hometown hub in Atlanta to  London
Heathrow  with a $338.40 base fare, while taxes and fees added
another $599.20, bringing the total to $937.60.  “We had to make tiny programming and automation changes
behind the scenes” to include taxes and fees with the base fare
amount, said Morgan Durrant, a Delta spokesman. A link on the
 Delta.com  home page will explain the fees.  AMR Corp.’s American was promoting a “travel deals”
flight from Nashville,  Tennessee , to Tegucigalpa,  Honduras , for
$286 one way on its website. With the return leg and taxes and
fees, the total cost was $641.40.  Adding Data  All of AMR’s fare and itinerary searches will include taxes
and fees as the customer selects flights to build a trip,  Tim Smith , a spokesman for the Fort Worth, Texas-based carrier, said
in an e-mail. Chicago-based United was in compliance with the
rule earlier this week, said Mike Trevino, a spokesman.  The DOT has been considering a policy change on fare
advertising since at least 2006, and said in the final rule
issued in April that this change was to address a “bait and
switch tactic by travel sellers.”  On domestic itineraries, taxes and fees are often less than
10 percent of the total ticket so the new disclosure rules may
be less noticeable to those passengers, said Leocha of the
Consumer Travel Alliance.  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  joined Spirit and another low-fare
carrier,  Allegiant Travel Co. (ALGT) , in asking a  U.S. Court of Appeals 
in  Washington  last year to overturn the regulation, said Chris Mainz, a spokesman for Dallas-based Southwest. He said a ruling
may still take “several months.”  “We think most people know that you see a price and know
you’re going to pay government taxes and fees on top of that,”
Mainz said. “The rule really addresses a problem that doesn’t
exist. There’s no justification for treating airlines any
different than any other product you’d buy in America.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 