-- America Movil Can Take Control of Net Servicos, Brazil Says
-- B y   C a r l a   S i m o e s   a n d   C r a y t o n   H a r r i s o n
-- 2012-01-26T21:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/america-movil-can-take-control-of-net-servicos-brazil-says-1-.html
America Movil SAB (AMXL) , the biggest
mobile-phone carrier in the Americas, won government permission
to take control of Brazilian cable operator  Net Servicos de
Comunicacao SA . Net’s shares rose.  Brazilian communications regulator Anatel approved America
Movil’s request to acquire control from Globo Comunicacao e
Participacoes SA, according to a meeting broadcast online. Net
has 90 days to provide a plan to take away Globo’s board seats
and veto rights over the company’s decisions, Rodrigo Zerbone,
an Anatel board member, said during the meeting.  The decision lets Mexico City-based America Movil proceed
with plans to combine its mobile-phone, land-line, Internet and
video businesses in  Brazil , its second-largest market after
Mexico. The company, controlled by billionaire  Carlos Slim ,
already holds 92 percent of Net’s shares and 49 percent of the
cable carrier’s voting shares.  Net  gained  9.2 percent to 21.95 reais at the close in  Sao
Paulo , the biggest gain since Oct. 5. America Movil slid 0.2
percent to 15.35 pesos in Mexico City.  Globo, Brazil’s largest broadcaster, had an agreement with
America Movil to transfer control after Brazil’s government
passed a law last year allowing foreign control of cable
carriers. The law bans broadcasters from exercising control over
communications companies, so Rio de Janeiro-based Globo’s powers
in the company must be stripped, Zerbone said.  No one answered the phone in three calls to closely held
Globo’s offices. An  America Movil  official who can’t be named
under company policy didn’t have an immediate comment.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carla Simoes in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 csimoes1@bloomberg.net ;
Crayton Harrison in Mexico City at 
 tharrison5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  