-- Amgen Agrees to Purcahse Micromet for $1.16 Billion to Gain Leukemia Drug
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o   a n d   M e g   T i r r e l l
-- 2012-01-26T21:15:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/amgen-agrees-to-purchase-micromet-for-1-16-billion-to-gain-leukemia-drug.html
Amgen Inc., (AMGN)  the world’s largest
biotechnology company, agreed to buy  Micromet Inc. (MITI)  in a $1.16
billion deal to gain an experimental leukemia drug.  Investors of Micromet, based in Rockville,  Maryland , will
get $11 a share, the companies said in a statement today. The
acquisition will give  Thousand Oaks , California-based Amgen the
compound blinatumomab, being tested against two blood cancers,
acute lymphoblastic leukemia and non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma.  While Amgen spends $2.7 billion a year on research and
development, the company has “a fairly empty pipeline” and
needs to acquire to gain promising new products, said  Geoffrey Porges , an analyst for Sanford C. Bernstein in New York.  “This isn’t the end of the acquisitiveness” for Amgen,
Porges said in a telephone interview. “This is consistent with
Amgen’s ‘swing for the fences’ worldview, and is consistent with
both the opportunity and perils of that view.”  Micromet rose 32 percent to $10.94 in  New York  trading. The
biotechnology company gained 60 percent in the last 12 months.
Amgen fell 1.6 percent to $68.08, and has climbed 21 percent in
the last year.  Porges declined to ascribe a value to blinatumomab until
he’s seen the results of current phase 2 trials.  The next set of data for blinatumomab is expected at the
 American Society of Clinical Oncology ’s annual meeting in June
2011, wrote Robyn Karnauskas, an analyst for Deutsche Bank
Securities in New York, in a note to investors.  Accelerated Approval  It’s unclear whether the drug will receive accelerated
approval from the  Food and Drug Administration , wrote
Karnauskas, saying the acquisition is outside Amgen’s “core
expertise” area.  In a June trial, nine of 12 patients on blinatumomab
reached complete remission from acute lymphoblastic leukemia, a
cancer that affects about 5,760 people in the U.S. each year.  The purchase fits into Amgen’s strategy to develop new
means to kill tumors,  Roger Perlmutter , head of research and
development, said in a telephone interview today.  “The Micromet team has done a fantastic job of building
this platform, which basically takes the existing cytotoxic T-
cells that exist in all of us, that are the most powerful
killing cells in our immune system, and redirects them to kill
tumor cells,” Perlmutter said. “They’ve exemplified that with
blinatumomab.”  Partners on Targets  Amgen partnered with Micromet in July to apply the
company’s technology to as many as three targets. Micromet is
also partnered with other drugmakers, and Perlmutter said Amgen
will “support all of the existing partnerships.”  Meanwhile, Amgen will continue to look for other
acquisition possibilities, he said.  “We’re always looking for new opportunities, but let’s be
clear: blinatumomab is a rare asset,” Perlmutter said.
“Finding a company that has both a rare asset like this and
also a platform that is potentially generalizable to other
tumors, this is extremely unusual.”  Micromet is unlikely to get a higher offer from another
bidder, said  Jason Kantor , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets 
in  San Francisco .  “The deal is good for Micromet,” Kantor wrote in a
research note today. “The path through pivotal trials, FDA
approval, and launch would have required dilutive financing
and/or a partnership. The cash acquisition monetizes the
opportunity up front, and we believe it is good for investors.”  Offer Value  The Amgen offer values Micromet at about 31 times revenue,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with a
median of about 6.7 for almost 40 comparable deals since 2007.  There have been more than 260 U.S. takeovers in Micromet’s
industry over the past five years, with the largest being  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) ’s $47 billion purchase of Genentech Inc. in 2009,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The acquisition will be discussed in more detail on a
conference call scheduled after fourth-quarter earnings are
released when the market closes today, Amgen said in the
statement.  Amgen, with a market value of $60.6 billion, declared its
first quarterly dividend last year, and announced a $10 billion
buyback program, promising to return more value to stockholders.  Amgen’s largest deal in the past five years until now was
its $425 million purchase of BioVex Group Inc. in 2010 for its
experimental cancer drugs. One of the BioVex drugs, Oncovex for
skin cancer, is in late-stage testing along with trebananib, for
ovarian cancer, and ganitumab, a therapy for pancreatic cancer,
according to data collected by Bloomberg.  Moelis & Co. provided financial advice to Amgen, while
 Sullivan & Cromwell LLP  supplied legal counsel. For Micromet,
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and  Cooley LLP (1160L)  acted as financial and
legal advisers, respectively.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  