-- Amgen Misses Fourth-Quarter Profit Estimates as Anemia Drug Sales Tumble
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-26T22:48:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/amgen-misses-profit-estimates-on-anemia-drugs.html
Amgen Inc. (AMGN) , the company that agreed
to buy  Micromet Inc. (MITI)  today for $1.16 billion, reported fourth-
quarter profit that fell short of analysts’ estimates on
decreasing sales of its anemia drugs.  Net income  fell 9 percent to $934 million, or $1.08 a
share, from $1.02 billion, or $1.08 a share a year earlier, the
 Thousand Oaks , California-based company said in a statement
today. Earnings, excluding some items of $1.21 a share missed by
2 cents the average of  estimates  of 23 analysts compiled by
Bloomberg. Revenue rose 3 percent to $3.97 billion.  Amgen, the world’s largest biotechnology company, earlier
today said it would acquire Rockville, Maryland-based Micromet
for $11 a share to add an experimental leukemia medicine to its
pipeline of oncology treatments. The company is also working to
boost its presence in the cancer market through sales of Xgeva,
a bone drug that reduces fractures.  “They’ve made great progress in prostate for Xgeva, and
they still have some wood to chop in  breast cancer ,”  Geoffrey Meacham , an analyst with JPMorgan Chase & Co. in New York said
in an interview before the statement was released.  Amgen forecast 2012 earnings, excluding some items, to be
in a range of $5.90 to $6.15 a share. Analysts had expected
$5.94 a share, the average of 24 estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Product Sales  Sales of Xgeva, approved by the U.S. Food and Drug
Administration to reduce fractures in cancer patients in
November 2010, and Prolia, used to treat osteoporosis in
menopausal women, were $215 million in the quarter, reaching
$554 million in 2011, their first full year on the market, Amgen
said. Analysts had estimated annual sales of $544 million.  Sales of the anemia drug Aranesp fell 15 percent to $538
million, and Epogen, an older version, declined 18 percent to
$486 million in the fourth quarter. Amgen’s Neulasta and
Neupogen, which are used to reduce the risk of infection in
patients on chemotherapy, increased 7 percent to $1.32 billion.  Amgen shares declined 1.6 percent to $68.08 at the close of
 New York  trading before the earnings were announced. The company
has gained 21 percent in the past 12 months.  Robert Bradway, Amgen’s president who will become chief
executive officer in May, said earlier this month that 2012
revenue will accelerate because of growth in cancer medicine
sales and possible wider regulatory approval.  Awaiting Decision  Amgen is waiting for U.S. regulators to decided the
company’s application to expand the use of Xgeva to include
preventing or delaying the spread of prostate cancer to bones.  The company’s research and development costs increased 2
percent to $842 million, as Amgen spent more on clinical trials
for later-stage drugs.  The Micromet deal signals Amgen may be making more
acquisitions,  Michael Yee , an analyst with  RBC Capital Markets 
in  San Francisco , said in a note to clients today.  Amgen “will be looking to diversify its business and look
at more deals and acquisitions given pending new CEO, new head
of R&D, and understanding of maturing business becomes more
obvious,” Yee wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in San Francisco at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  