-- Anglo American Iron-Ore Output Rises; Platinum Misses Target
-- B y   C a r l i   L o u r e n s
-- 2012-01-26T17:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/anglo-american-iron-ore-output-rises-5-copper-advances-10-1-.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL) , a mining company
with operations from  Australia  to Brazil, said fourth-quarter
iron-ore output climbed 5 percent, while platinum volumes missed
annual targets as South Africa ordered more safety stoppages.  Iron-ore production rose to 12.4 million metric tons in the
quarter and copper gained 10 percent to 170,000 tons from a year
earlier, the company said today. Anglo American Platinum
produced 710,000 ounces in the period, down 19 percent, and 2.53
million ounces over the year, missing a 2.6 million-ounce goal.  Anglo, like BHP Billiton Ltd. and Rio Tinto Group, is
expanding iron, copper and coal mines and studying acquisitions
on a forecast for long-term growth in  Asia . Platinum output has
dropped as  South Africa , which has the largest deposits of the
metal, shut down mines for safety audits, forcing Anglo to
process more “lower-grade surface stockpiles,” it said.  Anglo lagged behind rivals in  London  trading today,
advancing 3.1 percent to close at 2,737 pence. The 24-member
FTSE  350 Mining Index  gained 4.2 percent.  Iron-ore output beat  RBC Capital Markets ’ estimate of 3
percent, while a 24 percent slump in diamond volumes missed
projections from RBC and Liberum Capital Markets Ltd. Platinum
output “disappointed,” SBG Securities Ltd. said in a note.  Mine Stoppages  South Africa’s Department of Mineral Resources can suspend
mining operations by issuing a so-called Section 54 order,
allowing it to investigate accidents or inspect safety.
Government-ordered safety stops rose to 81 last year from 36 a
year earlier, Anglo American Platinum said in a statement.  Lonmin Plc, a competitor that also reported production
today, said an “uncharacteristically high” number of safety
halts hurt quarterly platinum volumes.  Anglo more than doubled nickel output to 9,900 tons in the
quarter after starting the Barro Alto mine in Brazil. The
company also began output last year from expansion projects at
the Los Bronces copper mine in  Chile  and South Africa’s Kolomela
iron-ore deposit. Anglo said in 2011 that it may spend $85
billion to raise production at 100 projects over the decade.  The London-based company is investing in so-called core
assets even as  Europe ’s economic expansion stagnates and Asian
growth cools.  Slowing Growth  The ThomReuters/Jefferies CRB index of commodity futures
prices fell 8.2 percent in the past six months. The
 International Monetary Fund  this week cut its forecast for
global growth in 2012 to 3.3 percent from 4 percent.  Anglo shares slumped 29 percent in London last year as
metal prices declined, less than the 35 percent slump of Xstrata
Plc, a rival of similar size. BHP, the largest mining company,
fell 26 percent. Twenty-three out of 32 analysts tracking Anglo
recommend buying the stock, according to a Bloomberg survey.  In November, Anglo bid $5.1 billion to take control of  De
Beers , the largest diamond miner by sales, in its biggest
acquisition since buying  Brazil ’s Minas Rio iron-ore venture for
about $5.5 billion in 2008, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  De Beers’s output fell to 6.5 million carats in the fourth
quarter from a year earlier as the diamond miner focused on
“increasing waste stripping” and carried out maintenance in
recognition of “short-term global macro-economic volatility.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Carli Lourens in Johannesburg at 
 clourens@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  