-- Anglo Says It’s Willing to Seek Chile Copper Mine Resolution
-- B y   J o h n   V i l j o e n   a n d   M a t t   C r a z e
-- 2012-01-26T21:36:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/anglo-says-criminal-claim-in-codelco-dispute-unfounded-correct-.html
Anglo American Plc (AAL)  Chief Executive
Officer  Cynthia Carroll  signaled she is prepared to seek an out-
of-court resolution to a dispute with  Chile ’s Codelco over
ownership of the world’s fifth biggest copper mine.  “We have stated very clearly and consistently that we are
open to working with Codelco to agree a commercial solution and
we urge Codelco and its board to act constructively to that
end,” she said in an e-mailed statement today.  Carroll’s comments contrast those of Codelco Chief
Executive Officer  Diego Hernandez , who said on Jan. 16 that he
sees little chance of talks as the two companies step up a
courtroom battle over terms of a 2002 option contract.  Codelco says it has the right to buy 49 percent of Anglo’s
Sur unit, which owns the Los Bronces mine in Chile, for $6
billion and is suing Anglo after the London-based company sold
24.5 percent of the unit to  Mitsubishi Corp. (8058)  in November for
$5.39 billion. Anglo is seeking to annul the option contract on
the grounds that Codelco breached terms by trying to exercise
the option prematurely in a funding deal with  Mitsui & Co Ltd .  The dispute is contractual and should be resolved as such,
Anglo said today, referring to a criminal accusation regarding
the Mitsubishi sale made by the president of the Federation of
Copper Workers in Chile, a member of the Codelco board.  Criminal proceedings against individuals is “completely
inappropriate” in what is a contractual dispute between
companies, particularly when initiated by a Codelco board
member, Carroll said in the statement.  A Chilean judge separately upheld a so-called precautionary
measure today that blocks Anglo from selling further shares in
the Sur unit. Codelco lodged the measure to protect its 49
percent purchase option.  To contact the reporters on this story:
John Viljoen in London at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net ;
Matt Craze in Santiago at   mcraze@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  