-- Manulife, Sun Life Fall on Ratings, Fed Outlook: Toronto Mover
-- B y   S e a n   B .   P a s t e r n a k
-- 2012-01-26T18:30:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/manulife-sun-life-fall-on-ratings-downgrades-fed-outlook-toronto-mover.html
Manulife Financial Corp. (MFC) ,  Sun Life
Financial Inc. (SLF)  and other Canadian life insurers plunged amid
credit-rating downgrades after  Federal Reserve  Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said inflation in the U.S. will remain restrained.  Manulife, the country’s largest insurer, fell 3.9 percent
to C$12.07 at 12:53 p.m. in Toronto. Earlier, it was down as
much as 5.3 percent, the most since Nov. 1. Sun Life, the third-
largest Canadian insurer, slipped about 4 percent to C$20.27,
its steepest decline since Dec. 19.  The Federal Reserve pledged yesterday to keep  interest
rates  at a record low until at least late 2014. Manulife and Sun
Life, both based in Toronto, had their ratings cut to
“neutral” from “buy” by Peter Rozenberg, a UBS AG analyst.
Moody’s Investors Service downgraded the operating units of Sun
Life’s U.S. business to A3 from Aa3.  “The lower-for-longer interest-rate outlook communicated
by the Fed puts some pressure on the  Bank of Canada  to follow
suit or risk providing additional fuel to the already strong
Canadian dollar,” Sumit Malhotra, a Macquarie Capital Markets
analyst, wrote today in a note to clients. He called it “a
clear negative for the life insurers.”  The  S&P/TSX Life & Health Insurance Index  declined 3.2
percent, its biggest drop since Dec. 8, as all six of its
companies moved lower. The index includes Industrial Alliance
Insurance,  Great-West Lifeco Inc. (GWO) , Power Corp. of Canada and
 Power Financial Corp. (PWF) , as well as Manulife and Sun Life.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sean B. Pasternak in Toronto at 
 spasternak@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 David Scanlan  at   dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
 David Scheer  at   dscheer@bloomberg.net . 