-- Chevron Bid to Block Judgment Rejected by Appeals Court
-- B y   B o b   V a n   V o r i s
-- 2012-01-26T20:31:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/appeals-court-reverses-order-blocking-chevron-ecuador-judgment.html
A U.S. appeals court blocked  Chevron
Corp. (CVX)  from using a  New York  law to try to bar a group of
Ecuadorians from collecting on an $18 billion judgment in an
environmental damage lawsuit.  The appeals court today reversed a lower-court order,
saying Chevron can’t use the law against the plaintiffs before
they try to collect.  “Chevron will have its opportunity to challenge the
judgment’s enforcement under this act at such time, if any, as
judgment-creditors seek to enforce the judgment in New York,” a
three-judge panel of the Manhattan-based court said today.  In March, U.S. District Judge  Lewis Kaplan  in Manhattan
issued a ruling that barred Ecuadorean residents in the Amazon
River Basin from enforcing an $18 billion judgment awarded by a
court in their country until a separate suit by Chevron against
the villagers and their lawyers is decided.  “Chevron believes this corrupt judgment will be
unenforceable in any country that adheres to the rule of law and
we will continue to defend Chevron’s interests against any
attempts to enforce the fraudulent judgment,”  San Ramon ,
California-based Chevron said in a statement.  Chevron was ordered Feb. 14 to pay as much as $18 billion
in compensatory and punitive damages for Texaco Inc.’s alleged
dumping of toxic drilling wastes in the Ecuadorian jungle from
1964 to about 1992. The ruling came in an 18-year-old lawsuit
decided by a judge in  Lago Agrio , a provincial capital near the
Colombian border.  ‘Grave Injustice’  “A grave injustice against the Ecuadorians has been set
right by today’s 2nd Circuit ruling,”  Karen Hinton , a
spokeswoman for the plaintiffs, said in a statement. “It
rebukes Chevron’s abusive legal tactics of the past two years.”  Chevron says it cleaned up its portion of the  oil fields 
and was released from pollution claims against Texaco in an
agreement with the government of Ecuador. Chevron acquired
Texaco in 2001.  The case is Chevron Corp. v. Naranjo, 11-1150, U.S. Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Van Voris in New York at 
 rvanvoris@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  