-- Apple, Google Must Face Employee-Poaching Ban Antitrust Lawsuit
-- B y   J o e l   R o s e n b l a t t
-- 2012-01-27T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/apple-google-poaching-case-will-go-forward-u-s-judge-says.html
Google Inc. (GOOG)  and  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  were
among seven technology companies that must face a lawsuit
claiming they violated antitrust laws by entering into
agreements not to recruit each other’s employees, a federal
judge said.  U.S. District Judge Lucy H. Koh in San Jose, California,
said yesterday that even if she dismisses some claims, she will
give the plaintiffs a chance to amend their complaint and re-
file it.  Intel Corp. (INTC) ,  Adobe Systems Inc. (ADBE) ,  Walt Disney Co. (DIS) ’s
Pixar animation unit,  Intuit Inc. (INTU)  and Lucasfilm Ltd. are also
named as defendants.  “They still have an antitrust claim that’s going forward
so I don’t want to see any obstruction on discovery,” she told
lawyers during a hearing.  The case is a private lawsuit brought on behalf of
employees that mirrors claims the companies settled with the
U.S.  Justice Department  in 2010 following a probe. The companies
agreed to refrain from placing “cold calls” to lure workers
from competitors, the government said at the time.  Koh didn’t take issue with the allegations about the
agreements between individual companies, Joseph Saveri, a lawyer
for the plaintiffs, said in an interview after the hearing.
Instead, Koh has questions about “how it ties together,” or
claims of an over-arching conspiracy between all the companies,
he said.  Possible Damages  The decision yesterday requires the defendants to produce
documents describing the agreements and permits lawyers to take
depositions, Saveri said. “We get to see what really
happened,” he said, adding that damages in the case could
amount to hundreds of millions of dollars.  While the accord “may have exposed defendants’ illegal
antitrust violations and put an end to them,” the agreements
“did not provide any compensation to the employees defendants
harmed,” lawyers for the plaintiffs said in a court filing.  Google said in a statement that is has “always actively
and aggressively recruited top talent,” declining to comment
further.  George Riley, a lawyer for Apple, and Robert Mittelstaedt,
an attorney for Adobe, declined to comment immediately after the
hearing.  Zenia Mucha , a Disney spokeswoman, wasn’t immediately
available for comment after regular business hours yesterday.  Intel spokeswoman Laura Anderson, Intuit spokeswoman Sandra
Corradetti, and a representative at Lucasfilm didn’t immediately
return calls seeking comment on Koh’s ruling after regular
business hours yesterday.  Restrained Competition  In the 2010 settlement, the Justice Department said the
companies kept do-not-call lists to avoid such recruiting, and
that such agreements restrained competition, which hurt
employees.  The government said that in May 2005, senior Adobe and
Apple executives agreed not to cold-call each other’s employees.
Adobe was placed on an internal Apple “do-not-call” list,
while Adobe put Apple on a list of “companies that are off-
limits,” according to the department.  Apple and Google had each other on internal do-not-call
lists starting in 2006, according to the department. The next
year, Apple and Pixar agreed not to call each other’s staffs,
and Google entered into no-cold-calling agreements with Intel
and Intuit, the department said.  The  San Jose  case is In Re High-Tech Employee Antitrust
Litigation, 11-2509, U.S. District Court, Northern District of
California (San Jose). The previous case is United States v.
Adobe Systems, 10-cv-1629, U.S. District Court, District of
Columbia ( Washington ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joel Rosenblatt in  San Francisco  at 
 jrosenblatt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  