-- Apple’s IPad Leads Surge in Tablet Shipments, Research Firm Says
-- B y   A d a m   S a t a r i a n o
-- 2012-01-26T08:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/apple-s-ipad-leads-surge-in-tablet-shipments-research-firm-says.html
Tablet-computer shipments more than
doubled in the fourth quarter, reflecting demand for  Apple 
Inc. ’s iPad and  Amazon (AMZN) .com Inc.’s new Kindle Fire, according to 
market-research firm Strategy Analytics.  Global tablet shipments rose to a record 26.8 million units
in the last three months of 2011, up from 10.7 million a year
earlier, Boston-based  Strategy Analytics  said in a report.
Consumers are increasingly choosing tablets over laptop or
desktop personal computers, the research firm said.  Even as Apple’s iPad shipments doubled, the company ceded
market share to machines sporting  Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android
operating system. Android tablets accounted for 39 percent of
the market, up from 29 percent a year earlier, suggesting strong
sales of Amazon’s Android-based Kindle Fire since its release in
November. Apple, whose iPad was introduced in 2010, still led
the market with a 58 percent share, down from 68 percent.
Microsoft Corp. had 1.5 percent,  Strategy Analytics  said.  Apple said this week that it sold a record 15.4 million
iPads in the quarter ended Dec. 31, generating $9.15 billion in
 sales . In less than two years, the device has become the
company’s second-best selling product by revenue, behind the
iPhone.  Amazon, based in  Seattle , hasn’t disclosed how many tablets
it has sold. The $199 Kindle Fire costs less than half the $499
price for Apple’s least-expensive iPad model. Samsung
Electronics Co. and Motorola Mobility Holdings Corp., which is
being acquired by Google, also have introduced tablets running
Android software.  Eclipsing PCs?  “Android is so far proving relatively popular with tablet
manufacturers,”  Neil Mawston ,  executive director  at Strategy
Analytics, said in a statement.  Apple Chief Executive Officer  Tim Cook  said the global
tablet market will eventually be larger than the one for
personal computers. On a conference call with financial analysts
on Jan. 24, he said he didn’t see an impact on iPad sales after
Amazon released the Kindle Fire.  “There’s clearly customers that will buy those, and I
think they’ll sell a fair number of units, but I don’t think
that people that want an iPad will settle for a limited
function,” Cook said on the call.  Worldwide PC shipments  declined  1.4 percent in the fourth
quarter to 92.2 million units, Gartner Inc. said earlier this
month, citing sluggish consumer demand.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Satariano in  San Francisco  at 
 asatariano1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  