-- Argentine Corn Farmers Face Renewed Heat Wave Amid Drought
-- B y   L a u r a   P r i c e   a n d   L u c i a   K a s s a i
-- 2012-01-26T19:11:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/argentine-corn-farmers-face-renewed-heat-wave-amid-drought-2-.html
Corn farmers in  Argentina , the
world’s second-biggest exporter of the grain, will face a
renewed heat wave next week after two months of dry weather
harmed South American crops.  Temperatures will exceed 40 degrees Celsius (104 degrees
Fahrenheit) in some areas through Feb. 2, the  Buenos Aires
Cereals Exchange  said today. Rain will be scarce in most areas,
while some outlying Pampas areas receive abundant rain, said
climatologist Eduardo Sierra.  The weather pattern known as La Nina has brought hot, dry
weather to Argentina,  Brazil  and  Mexico , scorching recently
planted crops. The drought in Argentina is similar to one last
year in the U.S. that caused corn production to miss forecasts
by about 10 percent, Rick Tolman, chief executive officer of the
National Corn Growers Association, said today.  “It looks very similar to what we experienced in 2011,”
Tolman told journalists in  Buenos Aires . The rain “seemed to be
timely enough to help the soybean yields, but for a lot of the
corn, it may be too little, too late.”  Temperatures will decline in early February, Sierra said in
the exchange’s report. Corn planting runs from August to
January. The crop is harvested from February until August.  Corn for March delivery rose 0.2 percent to $6.355 a bushel
on the Chicago Board of Trade at 12:37 p.m., while soybeans for
March increased 0.7 percent to $12.2175 a bushel.  Reduced Forecasts  Argentine corn growers may harvest 20 million to 22 million
metric tons in the coming harvest, less than a November forecast
of 30 million tons, Martin Fraguio, executive director of the
Maizar corn association, said Jan. 19.  Soybeans growers will harvest about 46.2 million tons, the
Buenos Aires Cereals Exchange said today in its first forecast
for the crop. Planting runs from September to January and the
crop is harvested February through June. The exchange forecast
corn production of 22 million tons.  “Rain registered over the past week brought relief to the
majority of producing areas,” the Buenos Aires exchange said in
its weekly report today. “However, losses are significant” in
areas including parts of Cordoba province and northeastern
 Buenos Aires province .  Argentina is the world’s third-largest soybean exporter
after the U.S. and Brazil. The U.S. is the world’s largest corn
exporter, while Brazil is the fourth-biggest.  The Argentine government will provide about 2.8 billion
pesos ($646 million) to farmers affected by the drought, Eduardo
Buzzi, president of the Argentine Agriculture Federation, said
in televised remarks today.  Drought in Brazil  Because of the drought, soybean and corn growers in
Brazil’s southern Parana state will harvest less than previously
forecast this summer, which runs from December through March in
the Southern Hemisphere, the state’s agriculture secretariat
said today.  Soybean growers in Parana will harvest 11.7 million tons of
the oilseed, less than the 14.1 million tons estimated Dec. 15,
the secretariat said on its website. The corn forecast was cut
to 6.1 million tons from 7.4 million.  In  Rio Grande  do Sul, Brazil’s southernmost state, soybean
growers will harvest about 8 million metric tons in the crop
year that started Sept. 1, 8.7 percent less than the 8.76
million tons estimated on Jan. 12, the state’s Emater
agricultural research agency said today. The corn forecast was
cut to 3.1 million tons from 3.31 million.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laura Price in Buenos Aires at 
 lprice3@bloomberg.net ;
Lucia Kassai in  Sao Paulo  at 
 lkassai@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  