-- Harper Pledges ‘Major Transformations’ to Canadian Economy
-- B y   T h e o p h i l o s   A r g i t i s
-- 2012-01-26T18:45:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/harper-pledges-major-transformations-to-canadian-economy.html
Canadian Prime Minister  Stephen Harper  pledged to make “major transformations” to the
country’s economy, to help secure growth for decades as Canada
copes with an aging population and global economic weakness.  Harper, speaking at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos, said
his government’s priorities will include building capacity to
export oil to  Asia , negotiating free trade agreements, and
making  government spending  more sustainable. Harper also said
some developed countries may have become “complacent” about
prosperity.  “The wealth of western economies is no more inevitable
than the poverty of emerging ones,” Harper said, according to
the prepared text of the speech provided by his office. “Canada
will make the transformations necessary to sustain economic
growth,  job creation  and prosperity now and for the next
generation.”  Harper, who has overseen one of the developed world’s most
robust economies during the global downturn, is running out of
drivers to sustain growth as the weak global recovery undermines
demand for Canadian exports and growing household debt curbs
consumer spending.  Canada ’s expansion in 2012, projected at 2 percent, will
trail U.S. growth for the first time in seven years, according
to 21 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News. In May, economists
had forecast 2012 Canadian growth of 2.8 percent. The country’s
benchmark S&P/TSX benchmark stock  index  lagged behind the U.S.’s
S&P 500 in 2011 for the first time since 2003.  Pension Reform  The government will also make the country’s fiscal position
sustainable “over the next generation,” in part by limiting
growth of pension spending, Harper said. While the national
 Canada Pension Plan  is fully funded, Harper said the government
will make “the changes necessary to ensure sustainability” of
parts of the pension system that aren’t fully funded, “while
not affecting current recipients.” He didn’t elaborate.  Canada needs to prepare for the impact of an aging
workforce, according to Harper, in part by making sure economic
and labor force needs become a “central goal” of immigration
policy.  Harper also said the government will act on issues
identified by an expert panel studying federal funding on
science and technology, which was headed by Open Text chairman
Thomas Jenkins.  Encouraging Research  That report recommended Canada create a central funding
agency to support corporate research and development, simplify a
tax credit that encourages businesses to invest in technology,
and increase funding for startup companies.  Canada expects to conclude a free trade  agreement  with the
European Union this year and will work to complete negotiations
on an agreement with  India  in 2013, he said. The governing
Conservatives will also take steps to facilitate capacity to
ship oil to Asia, according to Harper, by ensuring major energy
and mining projects are not subject to unnecessary regulatory
delays.  “We will make it a national priority to ensure we have the
capacity to export our energy products beyond the  United States ,
and specifically to Asia,” Harper said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Theophilos Argitis in Ottawa  at 
 targitis@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net ;
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net  