-- Harvard Freshman Applications Drop 1.9% Amid Early Program
-- B y   J a n e t   L o r i n
-- 2012-01-26T21:58:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/harvard-s-freshman-applications-drop-1-9-.html
Freshman applications to  Harvard
University  for the 2012-2013 academic year fell 1.9 percent
after the college reinstated its early application program.  Harvard received 34,285 applications, down from 34,950 a
year earlier,  William Fitzsimmons , dean of undergraduate
admissions, said today. The Cambridge, Massachusetts-based
school joins Ivy League members Columbia University and the
University of Pennsylvania in reporting declines after years of
record increases.  “Even the world of college admissions can’t defy the laws
of gravity forever,” Fitzsimmons said in a phone interview.
“This may be a chance for everyone to step back and ask the
more important question, not whether I should be applying to as
many colleges as humanly possible, but focus instead on which
college will be the best match.”  Harvard and  Princeton University  in Princeton, New Jersey,
reinstated early programs this year, where students apply in
early November and find out whether they’ve been accepted in
December, more than three months earlier than regular
applications. Students aren’t bound to accept an offer. Those
early programs may have led more students to make their college
choices earlier and not apply to as many colleges in regular
action, Fitzsimmons said.  A drop in the number of high school seniors, particularly
in the northeastern U.S., also may have played a role in the
applications decline, he said.  Columbia, Penn  Columbia in New York had a decline of 8.9 percent in its
freshman applications, a year after the school began accepting
the Common Application and experienced a 33 percent increase.
The  University of Pennsylvania , in Philadelphia, dropped by 1.7
percent.  Yale University  in New Haven, Connecticut, which released
its applications data last week, reported a 5.8 percent increase
to 28,870.  Applications for freshman admission are often seen as a
proxy for a school’s popularity. A boost in applications makes
them appear more selective, based on the percentage of students
that are admitted. Harvard admitted 6.2 percent of applicants
last year.  Harvard is the wealthiest U.S. university with an endowment
valued at $32 billion as of June 30. The cost to attend for the
current year is estimated  between $56,000 and $60,200  depending
on travel costs, according to the school’s website.  More than 70 percent of Harvard College students receive
some form of financial aid.  Alumni of the college, founded in 1636, include Federal
Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and Goldman Sachs Chief Executive
Officer  Lloyd Blankfein . President Barack Obama is a graduate of
Harvard’s law school.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Janet Lorin  in  New York  
 jlorin@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net . 