-- AT&T Chief Stephenson Says FCC Slow to Provide Wireless Airwaves
-- B y   T o d d   S h i e l d s
-- 2012-01-26T22:43:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/at-t-chief-stephenson-says-fcc-slow-to-provide-wireless-airwaves.html
AT&T Inc. (T)  Chief Executive Officer
 Randall Stephenson  said the Federal Communications Commission
has been slow to arrange auctions to provide wireless airwaves
needed as use of smartphones and other mobile devices increases.  Stephenson spoke on an earnings conference call today. His
company abandoned a $39 billion merger with T-Mobile USA Inc.
last month after resistance from the FCC and Justice Department.
The purchase would have boosted Dallas-based AT&T’s wireless
capacity to feed wireless devices such as tablet computers.  “This FCC has made it abundantly clear” it won’t allow
significant mergers “to help bridge their delays in freeing up
new spectrum,” Stephenson said. “It appears the FCC is intent
on picking winners and losers” in auctions.  FCC policies have left “an industry that is just really
stuck in terms of creating real capacity,” Stephenson said.  Rick Kaplan, chief of the FCC’s wireless bureau, in an e-
mailed comment said the agency’s goal for spectrum auctions “is
that every carrier -- big, medium, or small -- that needs
additional spectrum should have a meaningful chance to bid.”  The merger proposal was “unprecedented” and staff at the
 Justice Department  and FCC concluded it would violate antitrust
laws and bring higher prices and less innovation, Neil Grace, an
FCC spokesman, said in an e-mail.  “Those conclusions surely disappointed AT&T executives,
but they followed directly from the facts and the law,” Grace
said.  Availability of airwaves, or spectrum, is the “No. 1 issue
for us,” Stephenson said. “Growth cannot continue without more
spectrum being cleared and brought to market. And despite all
the speeches from the FCC, we’re all still waiting.”  AT&T, the largest U.S. phone company, today predicted 2012
 earnings  that trailed analysts’ estimates as record demand for
smartphones such as the iPhone drive up subsidy costs.  The stock fell 2.5 percent to $29.45 at in New York Stock
Exchange trading.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Todd Shields in Washington at 
 tshields3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  