-- Audi’s $57,000 TT RS Geared for L.A.’s Twisty Mulholland Drive
-- B y   J a s o n   H .   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/audi-s-57-000-tt-rs-geared-for-l-a-s-twisty-mulholland-drive.html
A big rock sits on the outside edge
of a notorious switchback on  Los Angeles ’s Mulholland Drive. Too
often that ill-placed boulder acts like a black hole: Drivers
and motorcyclists try so hard to avoid it that they get pulled
in. Ka-boom!  That’s known in the racing world as target fixation. You
drive into what you’re looking at.  I’m working the stick shift on the $57,725  Audi TT RS  and
skirt by the rock with nary a glance, keeping my eyes trained on
the road curling uphill. Audi is known for its road-hugging all-
wheel-drive and this high-powered version of the TT comes
scrambling out of corners like a greyhound after a hare. Best
not to let it get away from you.  Fewer than 1,000 TT RS’s will come to the  United States  in
the next two years. I’ve been driving the rare sports coupe
around town for several days. Leaping into traffic on the I-405
or squiring down Santa Monica Boulevard, the TT RS feels
devilishly quick. Faster off the line than a  Porsche Cayman R .  But it’s here on Mulholland Drive where the Audi will show
its real soul. The narrow lanes pretzel precariously along the
Santa Monica mountains, offering the kind of driving made for
sports cars.  Breaking the Law  This road is far from L.A.’s crowds, but close to nouveau
mansions. On quiet weekdays you’ll sometimes find car
manufacturers testing camouflaged prototypes. On weekends it’s
thick with  Ducati  motorcycles and  sports cars , some racing
illegally. It’s equally well-known to police. The speed limit is
now 35 mph.  The original TT was released in 1998, Audi’s first real
stab at a lifestyle car. Other Audis like the S4 were quick, but
styling was subdued to the point of narcolepsy.  The TT was a slick-roofed thing with smoothed corners, as
if it had been sealed in sci-fi bubble wrap. It came out around
the same time as  VW’s New Beetle  -- the designer J Mays had a
hand in both -- and together they marked a shift in modern auto
design.  Still, the TT was never hardcore. The original four-
cylinder engine made only 222 horsepower and was also offered as
a convertible. The second generation launched in 2006 with
leaner, more aggressive styling, aiming at sports-car
legitimacy. But other Audis had taken up the banner, notably the
exceptional R8 supercar.  Old Sport  Today the TT seems vestigial, perhaps ready for retirement.
In other words, ripe for the “RS” treatment, where internal
mechanics and the exterior are tweaked to their maximum sport
potential. Make it extra special and a few speed-mad buyers will
come.  In the case of the TT RS, the engine gets another cylinder,
replacing the inline four for a turbocharged, 2.5-liter five-
cylinder. It’s good for 360 horsepower and 343 pound-feet of
torque. Zingy.  It’s only available in the U.S. with a six-speed manual
transmission. And unlike the other TT models, it isn’t offered
as a convertible.  The TT certainly looks toothier in RS guise. The most
notable change is a fixed rear wing and altered bumpers. The
front is dominated by the big grill.  Oversized disc brakes are nakedly displayed through the
open-wheel spokes of the 19-inch wheels. Tires themselves are
high-performance summer rubber. Perfect on a day like this, 69
degrees in the middle of winter.  Downhill Racer  At first I was pleased to find the TT RS equipped with a
manual, but it also served as the first disappointment. The
throws are longer than expected -- less snickety-snick and more
snickety-pause -- which serves me poorly on Mulholland, where
hands and feet are doing a constant mambo as I downshift before
tight curves.  Audi’s electromechanical steering, with a power assist
that’s dependent on your speed, also fails in these situations.
The wheel is extremely slack at single-digit speeds, which is
fine for a parking lot but terrible for precision driving on
switchbacks. It’s irksome on cars like the A8 sedan, but a
travesty on a sports coupe.  The TT RS handles far better in more wide-open turns, when
you can exploit the combination of power, all-wheel-drive and
prodigious tire grip. At these moments it feels brilliant, which
is important as cliff edges on Mulholland are never far away.  I pull off to a dirt turnout and look down the steep hill,
a perfect place to watch other cars negotiate the turns. During
Mulholland’s illegal racing heydays of the 1960s they used to
call these turnouts the grandstands.  It is a perfect road. Even better if you had it closed off
all to yourself. If I did, I’m not sure I’d pick the TT RS,
$61,125 as tested. The Porsche Cayman R starts around $66,000,
and has a mid-mounted engine. Light, balanced and the steering
is just right. (The TT’s is, conventionally, in the front hood.)  I eventually exit the mountains and onto Highway 1, where
traffic is thick, and back toward  Santa Monica , where the TT RS
shines as a lifestyle car.  The 2012 Audi TT RS 2.5 at a Glance  Engine: 2.5-liter turbocharged five-cylinder with 360  horsepower and 343 pound-feet of torque.  Transmission: Six-speed manual.  Speed: 0 to 60 mph in 4.1 seconds.  Gas mileage per gallon: 18 city; 25 highway.  Price as tested: $61,125.  Best feature: Punchy engine, all-wheel-drive system.  Worst feature: Steering.  Target buyer: The TT lover who wants greater performance.  (Jason H. Harper writes about autos for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer of this column:
Jason H. Harper at  Jason@JasonHharper.com  or follow on Twitter
@JasonHarperSpin.  To contact the editor responsible for this column:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 