-- Australia Urges Order in Papua New Guinea on Mutiny Report
-- B y   A n g u s   W h i t l e y
-- 2012-01-26T03:39:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/australia-calls-for-order-in-papua-new-guinea-amid-mutiny-report.html
Australia  called for  Papua New
Guinea ’s  military chain of command  to be restored amid reports
soldiers staged a mutiny in the country’s capital, Port Moresby.  As many as 20 rebel soldiers early today detained the head
of the defense force, the Australian Broadcasting Corp. said,
citing an unidentified senior military official. The leader of
the mutiny demanded parliament restore ousted Prime Minister
Michael Somare to office, the Australian newspaper reported.  “We are concerned about these developments,” the
Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade said in an e-mailed
statement. The department said it understood that talks within
the Papua New Guinea military are taking place to resolve the
matter following “disturbances” at barracks in the capital.  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM) , operator of a $15.7 billion liquefied
natural gas venture in the country, Rio Tinto Group,  Harmony
Gold Mining Co. (HAR)  and Newcrest Mining Co. are among miners and
explorers with operations on the island that has experienced
political unrest since Somare lost office last August. He was
ousted and replaced by Peter O’Neill, while he received medical
treatment in  Singapore , according to the ABC.  Somare ordered the leader of the mutiny, Colonel Yaura
Sasa, to take control of the army, the Australian reported,
citing text messages sent to reporters today by Somare’s
daughter. Sasa may be in control of as many as 100 soldiers, the
newspaper said, citing a police spokesman. At Murray Barracks in
 Port Moresby , the gates were locked in case O’Neill and troops
loyal to him arrived, according to the report.  Australian Meeting  O’Neill has remained the effective prime minister, with the
support of the public service, police, defense force and most
lawmakers, even after the  Supreme Court  ordered Somare’s
reinstatement in December, the broadcaster said.  Australia’s High Commissioner in Port Moresby, Ian Kemish,
has spoken to O’Neill, who said authorities were taking steps to
“manage the situation,” DFAT said. The department advised
Australians to limit travel in Port Moresby today.  Sasa, a former defense attache to  Indonesia , told reporters
in the city he had taken control of the military and gave
politicians seven days to decide who is in charge of the
country, the Australian reported.  “My task is restoring the integrity and respect of the
constitution and the judiciary,” Sasa was cited as saying. “I
am now calling on the head of state to immediately implement Sir
Michael’s post as prime minister.”  There have been no reports of any injuries, the Australian
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Angus Whitley in Sydney at 
 awhitley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  