-- AutoNation Rises on Luxury, Japan Supply Boosts: Detroit Mover
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-01-26T21:09:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/autonation-rises-on-luxury-japan-supply-boosts-detroit-mover.html
AutoNation Inc. (AN) , the largest U.S.
auto retailer, climbed in  New York  trading after reporting
quarterly profit that beat analysts’ estimates as it boosted
luxury-car deliveries and inventory from Japanese automakers.  AutoNation gained 1.3 percent to $36.82 at the close in New
York after releasing fourth-quarter results. The  Fort
Lauderdale , Florida-based company had an intraday high of
$38.27.  Chief Executive Officer  Mike Jackson  benefited from
 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Daimler AG (DAI) ’s battle to unseat
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ’s  Lexus  as the top-selling U.S. luxury brand.
Shipments from Japanese automakers such as Toyota and Honda
Motor Co. to AutoNation outlets recovered by December to levels
before the March 11 earthquake and tsunami that disrupted
production and parts supply.  “The auto recovery is under way and we’re at a positive
point in the economic recovery,” Jackson said today in a phone
interview.  Net income rose to $69.4 million, or 49 cents a share, from
$67.3 million, or 45 cents, a year earlier, AutoNation said
today in a statement. Profit excluding some items was 51 cents a
share, topping the 49-cent average  estimate  of 13 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg. Sales rose 13 percent to $3.68 billion.  AutoNation’s retail deliveries of new  luxury vehicles ,
which include the BMW, Lexus, and Daimler’s Mercedes-Benz
brands, climbed 28 percent, exceeding sales increases of
domestic and import cars and trucks. BMW snapped the Lexus
brand’s 11-year run as the top-selling premium automaker in the
U.S. last year, outselling Mercedes by 2,715 vehicles.  Industry Forecast  U.S. light-vehicle sales may be about 14 million this year
for the industry, Jackson said in the statement, reiterating a
forecast made Jan. 9 during the North American International
Auto Show in Detroit. Industrywide deliveries were 12.8 million
in 2011, according to Autodata Corp., a Woodcliff Lake, New
Jersey-based researcher.  “What’s supporting sales is a genuine replacement need,”
Jackson said. “Vehicles are simply too old, almost 11 years old
on average. We have excellent financing for our customers. There
is great financing ability.”  Toyota and Honda’s namesake brands may gain the most market
share in the U.S. this year because loyal buyers deferred
purchases as the automakers based in Toyota City,  Japan , and
 Tokyo  dealt with supply issues last year, said Michael Maroone,
AutoNation’s chief operating officer.  The industry is unlikely to enter a “price war” because
the auto manufacturers will scale back “aggressive” production
plans if the economic recovery stalls, Maroone said in a phone
interview.  Lessons Learned  “The industry has learned its lesson on the costs of
oversupply, both in incentive costs and residual-value costs,”
he said. “You’ll see moderate levels of incentives and they’ll
be used tactically to try to reduce some inventory, but I don’t
think you’ll see an ‘incentive war’ in 2012.”  AutoNation bought back $217.8 million in company stock, or
6.3 million shares, during 2011’s fourth quarter and repurchased
$122.1 million more this year through yesterday, according to
the statement. The company has authorization from its board to
repurchase as much as $278 million more.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  