-- Bangladesh to Further Curb Credit, Stepping Up Inflation Fight
-- B y   A r u n   D e v n a t h   a n d   U n n i   K r i s h n a n
-- 2012-01-26T18:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bangladesh-to-further-curb-credit-stepping-up-inflation-fight.html
Bangladesh  pledged to further curb
credit growth as it stepped up the fight against an inflation
rate that has exceeded 10 percent each month since March.  Bangladesh Bank will “pursue a restrained monetary growth
path in order to curb inflationary and external sector
pressures,” it said yesterday in a statement giving the policy
stance for the six months through June. The target for credit
expansion among companies and individuals is 16 percent, it said,
compared with 18 percent earlier.  Bangladesh raised  interest rates  for the second time in
four months on Jan. 5, contrasting with moves to ease monetary
policy in nations from  India  to  Thailand  as  Europe ’s debt crisis
hurts global expansion. The taka’s 16 percent slide against the
dollar in the past year is  Asia ’s second-worst, spurred by
concern growth may slow and as political risks cloud the outlook.  “The economy is going through a difficult time,” Ahsan H.
Mansur, executive director of the Dhaka-based Policy Research
Institute, said before the release. “For now, it is not
possible to bring inflation to single digits.”  Consumer  prices , stoked by costlier food, rose 10.63
percent in December from a year earlier, eroding purchasing
power in a country where the  Asian Development Bank  estimates
about half the population lives on less than $1.25 a day.  “The fact that non-food inflation is still steadily
increasing -- partly due to energy and petroleum price
adjustments -- suggests that the focus on curbing inflation to
single digit levels needs to continue,” the central bank said.  The government has forecast 7.5 percent average inflation
for the current fiscal year.  Electricity Prices  A climb in electricity prices threatens to fan price
pressures. Tariffs are due to be increased 7.1 percent from Feb.
1 following a 13.2 percent rise last month.  The taka was little changed at 84.400 per dollar yesterday.
The Dhaka Stock Exchange’s benchmark General index, which is
down 38 percent in the past year, closed 1.7 percent lower.  Bangladesh Bank raised the repurchase rate to 7.75 percent
from 7.25 percent and the reverse repurchase rate by a half a
percentage point to 5.75 percent earlier this month. September’s
inflation reading of 11.97 percent was the highest since
December 1998, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The $106 billion economy may expand 6.5 percent to 7
percent in the fiscal year ending June, the central bank said.
Gross domestic product rose 6.7 percent in 2010-2011.  The forecast takes into account risks to export and
remittance growth, as well as moderating aid inflows and credit
expansion, Bangladesh Bank said, adding it will seek to ensure
“adequate private sector credit to stimulate inclusive
growth.”  The trade deficit is set to widen to $9.03 billion in the
year through June, from $7.3 billion in 2010-2011, according to
the central bank. Foreign-exchange reserves fell to $9.2 billion
from $10.1 billion in the 12 months to mid-January, it said.  Bangladesh’s army foiled an attempt to oust Prime Minister
Sheikh Hasina Wajed’s government, the army said Jan. 19. The
nation has had three major army coups and two dozen smaller
rebellions since independence from  Pakistan  in 1971.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Arun Devnath in Mumbai at 
 adevnath@bloomberg.net ;
Unni Krishnan in  New Delhi  at 
 ukrishnan2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Arijit Ghosh at 
 aghosh@bloomberg.net  