-- Banks Cut Loans to France and Italy, Pile Into Bunds, Treasuries, BIS Says
-- B y   B o r i s   G r o e n d a h l
-- 2012-01-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/banks-cut-loans-to-france-and-italy-pile-into-bunds-treasuries-bis-says.html
International  banks  cut their loans
to fellow lenders and governments in  Italy ,  France  and  Spain  in
the third quarter, hoarding German, Japanese and U.S. bonds
instead, data from the Bank for International Settlements show.  Cross-border claims on the Italian state, mainly bonds and
loans, declined by 23 percent, or $67.7 billion, in the quarter
ended Sept. 30 at banks in the 24 countries for which the Basel,
Switzerland-based BIS reports those data. The same measure
dropped 21 percent for France and 10 percent for Spain. It also
fell for emerging economies including Brazil, Mexico and  Poland ,
while $65.3 billion went into German government debt and $77.2
billion into U.S. Treasuries, the BIS said in a statement.  “Contrasting with the reduction in claims on the public
sector in emerging countries, the exposure of international
banks to the developed countries’ public sector increased by 4.3
percent in the third quarter,” the BIS said. “This increase
was driven by claims on the public sectors of the  United States ,
 Germany  and  Japan .”  The data cover the quarter in which investors started to
dump all but the safest of assets to cushion against losses amid
signs of a worsening of the euro-area debt crisis. The  European
Central Bank  restarted its bond purchases in August to prop up
 government securities  in the region, allowing holders of those
bonds to exit their assets. Emerging-market assets slid as
commodity prices tumbled on concerns  Europe ’s woes may hurt the
global economy.  Bunds Rose  The euro declined by 7.7 percent in the quarter against the
dollar, the currency in which the BIS keeps the data. German
government  bonds  returned 7.9 percent in the same period,
according to indexes compiled by the European Federation of
Financial Analysts Societies and Bloomberg.  Treasuries gained 6.5 percent and Japanese bonds rose 1
percent, the indexes showed. French debt gained 6.2 percent,
with Italian bonds losing 4.2 percent and Spanish securities
increasing 2.5 percent.  The Polish zloty and Brazilian real slid 17 percent against
the dollar in the period, the most out of 25 emerging-market
currencies tracked by Bloomberg. The  Mexican peso  fell 16
percent and the ruble 13 percent.  Government bonds  of all three
countries dropped in the quarter, and benchmark stock indexes in
each country declined at least 8 percent.  French Retreat  French banks shed the most Italian government debt,
reducing their claims by 23 percent, the BIS said. They also
retreated from other European assets including German bunds and
German and Italian bank debt, which they cut by 28 percent.
Instead, they shoveled $41.3 billion into Treasuries, increasing
their U.S. government claims by 39 percent.  U.S. and U.K. banks were shifting assets at the fastest
pace. U.S. lenders’ claims on French banks dropped by $29.1
billion, or about a quarter, while U.K. banks cut their lending
to Italian banks in half. Both piled into bunds, with British
banks increasing the German government claims by almost two-
thirds, or $40.3 billion, and U.S. lenders raising them by 72
percent, or $42.6 billion.  German banks proved to be the most stable investors among
the BIS sample in the quarter. They reduced their lending to
French, Italian and Spanish borrowers by less than the average,
and increased the U.S. government claims by $2.8 billion.  The BIS data record the cross-border business of banks in
the countries reporting to it. Data for banks’ consolidated
cross-border claims -- which include bonds, loans, funds
deposited at banks -- are reported by 30 countries, 24 of which
break down borrowers by nationality and by public, bank and non-
bank private sector. Those countries include most developed and
some emerging economies.  China Excluded  The data cover only part of the market.  China , the world’s
biggest holder of Treasuries, doesn’t report its banks’ holdings
to the BIS. Claims by institutions other than banks, such as
mutual funds, insurers or central banks, are also not reflected.
The records are reported in U.S. dollars at the rate of the
period’s end and not adjusted for currency movements.  Declining exchange rates versus the dollar contributed to
the drop in claims on  emerging markets  in the quarter, the BIS
said. Lending to  Brazil ’s government dropped 17 percent in
dollar terms, to claims on the Mexican state by 18 percent and
on Poland by 17 percent, it said. All those countries have debt
denominated in other than their local currencies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Groendahl in Vienna at 
 bgroendahl@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Connelly at 
 fconnelly@bloomberg.net  