-- Bank of America Settlements Impede Fraud Probe, Arizona Says
-- B y   K a r e n   G u l l o
-- 2012-01-26T18:41:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bank-of-america-settlements-impede-fraud-probe-arizona-says.html
Bank of America Corp.  is impeding an
investigation of its loan modification practices by negotiating
settlements with borrowers who must agree to keep them secret
and not criticize the bank in exchange for cash payments and
loan relief,  Arizona  officials say.  The Arizona Attorney General’s office is asking a court to
block those aspects of the settlements and require the bank to
turn over all the agreements. The bank denies any wrongdoing.  One 2011 accord involving a borrower facing foreclosure who
defaulted on a $253,142 mortgage included a $5,000 payment, plus
$7,500 for legal fees, and the defaulted payments were waived
and the loan was modified to a 40-year term with a 2 percent
interest rate, court documents show. The terms of the original
loan and the borrower’s complaint about the lender weren’t
described in the documents.  The borrower “will remove and delete any online statements
regarding this dispute, including, without limitation, postings
on Facebook, Twitter and similar websites,” and not make any
statements “that defame, disparage or in any way criticize”
the bank’s reputation, practices or conduct, according to
documents filed in state court in Phoenix. The borrower’s name
and address were redacted.  Non-Disparagement  Bank of America attorneys argue that borrowers don’t have
to sign the agreements to get a loan modification and deny that
settlements hinder the state’s probe. Borrowers can be
subpoenaed to disclose the accords, and the  Charlotte , North
Carolina-based bank won’t enforce the non-disparagement
provision if they talk to investigators, the bank’s lawyers have
said in court filings.  A hearing is set for Feb. 1 on the dispute.  Arizona Attorney General Thomas Horne, a Republican who
took office last January, is investigating Bank of America as
part of a 2010 lawsuit alleging customers of its Countrywide
Financial mortgage unit were misled about requirements for loan
modifications. The bank, which acquired Calabasas, California-
based Countrywide in 2008, provided inaccurate and deceptive
reasons for denying modification applications, according to the
the complaint. A similar suit was filed by  Nevada .  The settlement agreements came to light as state
investigators followed up on borrower complaints filed with the
attorney general’s office. The office learned of 12 settlements
while examining 1,900 complaints and when it attempted to
contact the borrowers, Assistant Attorney General Carolyn
Matthews said in Jan. 11 court filing.  Frequent Contact  Only four returned phone calls and none would provide a
copy of the settlement, Matthews said. Some who signed the
settlements had previously been in frequent contact with the
attorney general’s office, according to court records.  Matthews contends that under the terms of the settlements,
even if subpoenaed, borrowers can’t reveal any unflattering
information about the bank. They couldn’t talk about
misrepresentations the bank made about loan modifications, which
is what the state is investigating, she said.  “These agreements have completely silenced even the most
communicative consumers,” Matthews said in the filing. “The
settlement agreement purposefully makes it impossible, legally
and practically, for a consumer signing it to come forward,
voluntarily and promptly, to provide evidence in this case.”  She asked a state judge to order Bank of America to notify
borrowers who signed the agreements that they don’t have to
adhere to the confidentiality and non-disparagement provisions.  Settlement Talks  Arizona has been participating in settlement negotiations
between the five biggest U.S. mortgage servicers, including Bank
of America, and state and federal officials to resolve a
nationwide prove of foreclosure practices, Matthews said in an
e-mail yesterday.  If Arizona joins any final settlement reached, that would
affect the state’s lawsuit against Bank of America, she said.  “While Arizona is evaluating and is interested in the
multistate settlement, Arizona will not join it unless we are
able to simultaneously resolve our claims against Bank of
America set forth in our separate lawsuit,” Matthews said.  Inappropriate Practices  Settlements with borrowers are more likely in cases in
which the bank engaged in inappropriate practices, such as
steering customers away from more affordable loans, or canceling
a mortgage modification after a single payment went missing from
a borrower who otherwise kept up with payments, said Patricia
Garcia Duarte, chief executive officer of Neighborhood Housing
Services of Phoenix Inc., which works with families facing
foreclosure. Bank of America is a contributor to the
organization, according to the group’s website.  Patricia Lee Refo, a Bank of America attorney, said in
court filings that the confidentiality provisions are common in
settlement agreements, which the bank uses on a “limited”
basis to resolve disputes and avoid a costly lawsuit. There’s no
policy to ask borrowers to sign settlement agreements in
exchange for loan modifications, David Thornton, senior vice
president for social media and urgent customer relations, said
in a filing.  ‘Extremely Serious’  “Plaintiff cannot ask this court enter the extremely
serious finding that defendants have interfered with  law
enforcement  based on one settlement agreement, or even 12,
containing plain vanilla terms litigants use every day to
resolve disputes,” Refo said in a court filing.  The bank can’t say how many settlements have been reached
with Arizona customers because the agreements aren’t centrally
stored on computers, Thornton said.  “We look at each situation on a case-by-case basis and
decide what to do based on the specific situation,”  Shirley Norton , a Bank of America spokeswoman, said in an e-mail.  Wells Fargo & Co ., the biggest  U.S. bank  by market value
and the largest mortgage lender, has a similar practice, said
James Hines, a spokesman for the San Francisco-based bank.  “Each case is unique and for a variety of reasons we may
elect to include a confidentiality and/or a non-disparagement
agreement as part of the settlement,” Hines said in an e-mail.
He said he didn’t know how many settlements had been reached.  Borrowers’ Boon  Loan modification settlements are a boon for borrowers
struggling to keep their homes, Duarte said in a phone
interview. Duarte said she doesn’t see many such settlements and
that borrowers who sign one can’t talk about them.  “That shouldn’t apply to investigators like the attorney
general,” she said.  Lump sum payments of thousands of dollars and provisions
blocking borrowers from criticizing banks aren’t common, she
said.  “Clearly the banks are freaking out, they are paranoid,”
Duarte said. Bank of America “has the worst reputation because
it’s so large. A lot of it isn’t their fault, it was
Countrywide.”  The case is Arizona v. Countrywide Financial Corp.
CV2010-033580, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County
(Phoenix).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Karen Gullo in  San Francisco  at 
 kgullo@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  