-- Bank of America Said to Limit Cash Bonuses for Investment Bankers, Traders
-- B y   D a w n   K o p e c k i   a n d   H u g h   S o n
-- 2012-01-26T21:10:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bank-of-america-said-to-limit-cash-bonuses-for-investment-bankers-traders.html
Bank of America Corp. , the U.S.
lender seeking to preserve  capital , will freeze base salary
levels and limit cash bonuses to $150,000 for some investment
bankers, said two people with knowledge of the plans.  The cap on cash payments applies to those getting as much
as $1 million in total year-end bonuses, with the rest coming in
shares of the  Charlotte , North Carolina-based lender, said the
people, who asked for anonymity because the matter is private.
Employees are being told of their payments today and can sell
some of the  stock  starting on Feb. 15, the people said.  “I can’t think of one banker who doesn’t have two or three
times that in expenses,” said Gustavo Dolfino, a former UBS AG
banker and now president of Whiterock Group LLC, a New York-
based executive search firm, referring to the $150,000 limit.
“They are probably making exceptions for their superstars. You
haven’t seen the end of this, there will be musical chairs.”  Wall Street firms are getting bolder in curbing pay and
shifting compensation methods as companies move to limit
expenses. Bank of America Chief Executive Officer  Brian T. Moynihan , 52, has said he may target as much as $3 billion in
cost cuts in units including the investment bank as part of his
plan to revive  profit .  Cuts Are Coming  Earlier this month, Bank of America told investment bankers
to expect compensation that averages 25 percent less than last
year, people said this week. Employees in some departments were
told packages were 30 percent smaller, and some managing
directors will get no bonuses, said one of the people.  Awards include a combination of cash and shares, some of
which can’t be sold for as long as three years. The firm’s
decision to leave salaries unchanged comes after companies
boosted them in 2009 to de-emphasize bonuses, which lawmakers
said encouraged unwarranted  risks  that fueled the financial
crisis. The bank uses a tiered system based on the size of the
bonus when determining the percentage to pay in cash.  At Bank of America, a typical vice president’s base salary
is about $175,000, while a director may make $250,000 and
managing directors may earn $400,000, the people said. Bonuses,
especially for senior workers, can be several times base pay.  Who Gets Cash  The restricted part of bonuses typically rises with the
size of the total payout. For instance, bonuses less than
$100,000 will be paid all in cash, the people said. Awards above
that amount are a combination of cash and stock that vests over
three years and unrestricted shares that can be sold
immediately.  Bank of America said last week that it would issue about $1
billion in new stock to replace some cash incentives. The
bonuses are called “special equity awards,” the people said.
Jessica Oppenheim, a spokeswoman for the company, said she
couldn’t comment. Reuters reported last week that the bank plans
to give investment bankers more of their bonuses in stock.  Traders and investment bankers getting from $100,000 to
$249,999 were told they will get 20 percent of that in cash, 20
percent in restricted stock and 60 percent in the new
unrestricted shares, the people said.  Employees (BAC)  in this level
typically received about 70 percent of awards in cash and 30
percent in restricted shares.  Bonus Allocations  Payouts between $250,000 and $499,999 will be split among
18.75 percent in cash, 25 percent in restricted stock and 56.25
percent in unrestricted stock. Historically, bonuses of that
size would be split between 60 percent cash and 40 percent
restricted stock.  Bonuses between $500,000 and $999,999 will be paid 15
percent in cash, 40 percent in restricted stock and the rest in
unrestricted shares. That breakdown is more closely aligned with
the historical practice of paying out 60 percent of awards in
cash and 40 percent in restricted shares. Senior managers will
get about 70 percent of their packages in restricted shares with
the rest in cash or unrestricted shares.  The division, run by co-chief operating officer Thomas K. Montag, posted annual profit that plunged by half to $2.97
billion in 2011 as the European sovereign-debt crisis roiled
markets. Montag, 55, told employees on Jan. 19 that the
investment bank was rebounding after credit-rating  downgrades 
last year sparked concern among clients.  Fees from  investment banking , which includes advising
clients on mergers and acquisitions as well as managing sales of
shares and bonds, declined 35 percent in the fourth quarter to
$1.1 billion, the bank said. The market was “challenging”
because of  Europe  and the fallout from  Standard & Poor’s 
downgrade of the U.S. credit rating, the lender said.  Cash Bonus  Compensation declines at Bank of America mirror actions by
other firms.  Morgan Stanley (MS)  is reducing pay for senior
investment bankers and traders by an average of 20 percent to 30
percent for 2011, people with knowledge of the move said. The
firm is also capping immediate cash bonuses at $125,000 as it
seeks to defer the pay of senior executives.  Credit Suisse Group AG, the second-biggest bank in
 Switzerland , told senior investment bankers that compensation
for 2011 will be 30 percent lower on average than the previous
year, four people briefed on the discussions said.  Goldman Sachs
Group Inc. (GS)  Chief Financial Officer David Viniar said last week
that discretionary compensation declined “significantly more”
than the firm’s 26 percent drop in revenue.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Dawn Kopecki in New York at 
 dkopecki@bloomberg.net ;
Hugh Son in New York at 
 hson1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net  