-- Banks Hoarding ECB Cash to Double Company Defaults: Euro Credit
-- B y   J o h n   G l o v e r
-- 2012-01-26T09:00:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/banks-hoarding-ecb-cash-may-double-defaults.html
Corporate defaults may almost double
in  Europe  as companies struggle to refinance debt and banks
 hoard cash  borrowed from the  European Central Bank  or use it to
buy government bonds.  Europe’s default rate may soar to 8.4 percent or more, from
4.8 percent at the end of 2011 as the recession bites and
company financing dries up, according to  Standard & Poor’s .
 Petroplus Holdings AG (PPHN)  became the latest victim of the tough
stance banks are adopting when the region’s biggest independent
oil refiner said this week it will file for insolvency after
losing access to $2.1 billion of credit lines.  “It’s very challenging for anyone to raise money from
lenders right now,” said Andrew Cleland-Bogle, a Frankfurt-
based director at corporate finance specialist  DC Advisory
Partners . “Combine that with increased bank capital
requirements and you can see that although banks are getting
money they’re very selective when it comes to lending it. 2012
is going to be a very, very tough year.”  Speculative-grade companies have to refinance about 230
billion euros ($300 billion) through 2015, according to S&P. At
the same time, banks and loan funds that provided the initial
funding are scrambling for capital or reaching the end of their
reinvestment periods and may be unwilling to extend loans.  Banks are using the 489 billion euros they borrowed at 1
percent from the ECB under its three-year longer-term
refinancing operation to scoop up  government bonds  yielding more
than 2.5 percentage points extra instead of lending the money to
companies.  Italian Yields  Italian bonds due in three years, the maturity of the ECB
loans, now yield 4.37 percent, down from 7.36 percent at the end
of November. The country’s 10-year bonds have declined to 6.11
percent from 7.02 percent. Spanish three-year notes now yield
3.04 percent, down from 5.51 percent in November, while yields
on  10-year bonds  have fallen to 5.29 percent from 6.23 percent.  Spanish and Italian banks clearly used the funds to take
advantage of “the massive gap between the cost of these funds
and the yield on the government bonds” of their home countries,
according to John Rathbone, head of J.C. Rathbone Associates, a
London-based risk management consulting firm.  Borrowing Stigma  More than 500 lenders borrowed from the ECB at the December
tender. With the stigma of turning to the central bank now gone,
Huw van Steenis, an analyst at Morgan Stanley in  London  says
lenders may borrow anything from 150 billion euros to more than
400 billion euros at the second tender next month.  Some of the money borrowed is being deposited at the ECB.
The 30-day moving average of deposits there -- a figure that
smoothes out variations caused by regulatory requirements -- is
at a record 411 billion euros, according to the central bank.  The ECB cash failed to help Zug, Switzerland-based
Petroplus. After breaching loan conditions in September, the
company negotiated waivers in return for $6.3 million in fees
and a 50 basis-point increase in interest margin, in a process
known as amend and extend. That came after a similar agreement
in July, which cost the company $2.6 million in consent fees.  Lenders’ attitudes toward amend and extend are now
hardening, said David Bryan, partner at London-based turnaround
firm  Bryan, Mansell & Tilley  LLP.  ‘Zombie Companies’  “There are a lot of zombie companies that are trapped by
their debts and have no way out,” Bryan said. “The recovery
isn’t really happening and there’s a high probability we’re
going into a double-dip recession. For all that the banks kicked
the can down the road once, the realization is dawning that they
can’t just do that again.”  Companies bought by leveraged buyout firms during the boom
years in the middle of the last decade are particularly
vulnerable to the dearth of funding because their debt levels
are higher than investors are willing to accept, said Edward Eyerman, head of leveraged finance at  Fitch Ratings  in London.
And because banks and collateralized debt obligations are also
leveraged, the problem is amplified, he said.  “For companies that have five times leverage, are in
cyclical industries, exposed to anemic economies and have near-
term maturities, it’s questionable how much equity value is
underneath the debt,” Eyerman said. “When these highly
leveraged borrowers get into trouble, the focus on what’s the
right  capital structure  for a company within its industry to
perform effectively competes with the demands of banks and CLOs
to preserve the senior debt.”  ‘Mild Recession’  S&P’s base case for defaults is for a 6.1 percent rate in
2012, up from 4.8 percent at the end of 2011, with a “mild
recession” in the first half, according to  Paul Watters , the
firm’s head of corporate credit research in London. S&P
estimates there’s a 40 percent chance of a “deeper recession
materializing” as the sovereign crisis worsens, he said.  Average relative yields on bonds in euros rated in the B
category have held wider than 10 percentage points since Nov. 23
and are now 10.32 percentage points, Bank of America Merrill
Lynch’s Euro High Yield, B Rated index shows. Spreads on issues
rated CCC+ and lower are wider than 22 percentage points on
average, index data show.  About half of the 676 junk-rated companies followed by S&P
are graded in the lower part of the B category or below,
according to Watters.  Lower-rated borrowers that have a large part of their
business in the nations hardest hit by the sovereign debt
crisis, and which haven’t refinanced loans coming due this year
and next, will “face particular difficulties,” he said.  Stress Tests  The  European Banking Authority , which found a 115 billion-
euro capital shortfall in its most recent stress tests on
lenders, has given banks until June to find the cash or face
nationalization.  Struggling to raise the money, lenders are choosing to
reduce risk-weighted assets instead. European banks, which
currently have total assets of about 26.5 trillion euros, will
probably reduce their balance sheets by 5.1 trillion euros in
the next three to five years, according to Alberto Gallo, a
strategist at  Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  in London.  “Given the large shortfall in equity capital and
persistent sovereign risk, we think it will be difficult for
European banks to start transferring their liquidity to the
broader economy,” Gallo said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Glover in London at 
 johnglover@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  