-- Barclays’s Diamond Warns of ‘Balkanization’ Through Regulation
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-01-26T11:53:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/barclays-s-diamond-warns-of-balkanization-through-regulation.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  said planned U.K. regulations risked the
“Balkanization” of international banking.  The bank wants to keep “a balance among the major
economies so that we encourage the continued development of
international banking and not the return to protectionism and
Balkanization,” he said in an interview with Bloomberg TV today
in Davos,  Switzerland .  John Vickers ’s report is “a type of
example of the Balkanization I’m talking about,” he said.  Vickers, chairman of the  Independent Commission on Banking ,
recommended in September that banks insulate consumer units from
investment banking to increase stability in the financial
system. The proposals may cost the industry as much 7 billion
pounds ($11 billion) and should be implemented by 2019, the ICB
said.  “We have been very public that we would have preferred a
different route,” as the cost of retail banking will increase,
Diamond said. Being a universal bank with retail and  investment
banking  operations “is a diversifier of risk not an aggregator
of risk,” he said.  The lender has considered “all scenarios” on whether to
maintain the universal model or break the bank up. The different
sides of the businesses have propped each other up over time, he
said.  “It brings not just diversification of risk but also
diversification of profitability -- there have been years when
the investment bank might have been two thirds and the retail
bank one third of the earnings,” he said. “We’ve seen other
years when it’s been just the opposite, as we’ve seen in 2011.”  Diamond, who became CEO in January 2011, was awarded as
much as 10.1 million pounds in salary, bonuses and stock, making
him the U.K.’s top-paid bank CEO. Today he said the lender’s
board will decide what bonus he will receive. As to his decision
on whether he will accept the pay, “I think that’s a decision
we’ll make at the time,” he said. The British government has
asked for restraint from banks.  -- With assistance from Ambereen Choudhury and Liam Vaughan in
 London . Editors: Francis Harris, Jon Menon  To contact the reporter on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  