-- Beckham Family Values
-- B y   K a r l a   S w a t e k
-- 2012-01-26T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/beckham-family-values.html
International soccer star  David Beckham  has seldom escaped the limelight. From his flashy
Manchester United debut in 1992 to his July 1999 wedding to
Victoria “Posh Spice” Adams (complete with his-and-hers golden
thrones) and his star-studded “Welcome to L.A.” party in 2007
that was hosted by BFFs Tom Cruise and  Katie Holmes  and other
Hollywood’s A-listers, the paparazzi has kept close watch on
Beckham. While glory on the pitch is tapering off for the
almost-37-year-old midfielder known for his physics-defying
passes, Beckham, No. 58 on the  2012 Power 100  list, is only
beginning to hit his business mark.  In November, Beckham added a Major League Soccer championship
with the  Los Angeles Galaxy  to the league titles he’d already
earned with ManU and Real  Madrid . But the MLS franchise, owned
by billionaire  Philip Anschutz ’s Anschutz Entertainment Group,
had already won long before Beckham’s assist on the lone goal
scored by teammate  Landon Donovan  (Power 100 No. 55) to win the
MLS Cup. Thanks to Beckham’s influence, Galaxy was able to land
a $20 million shirt sponsorship deal with Herbalife, as well as
sell out its luxury suites and add thousands of new season
ticket holders each year.  Beckham is a marketing machine, scoring annual deals with the
likes of Adidas, Coty, and EA Sports estimated to total $27
million. Like most good team sport players, he’s not acting
alone. In Beckham’s case, however, it is family members rather
than soccer mates that have elevated his business game.  “The Beckhams are clearly America’s ‘First Family’ of
soccer,” says Gerry Philpott, chief executive officer of E-Poll
Market Research. “Their appeal goes well beyond the sport, with
even their kids having a measurable impact on popular culture.
This makes the Beckhams a valuable asset to MLS in their efforts
to promote the sport to a wider audience.”  Celebrity Children, too  Indeed, since the Beckhams came to America, their entertainment
endeavors have landed the couple coverage on such diverse
lifestyle platforms as W Magazine and Access Hollywood --
unheard-of turf for a soccer player in the U.S. The Beckhams’
four children post higher E-Score Celebrity “Appeal” numbers
than most pro athletes (right behind Suri Cruise). And wherever
Beckham has played in the U.S., audiences have swelled, as has
youth participation, for he has made a point to spend time with
youth soccer teams across the country in mini Beckham Academies.  Beckham recognizes the star power he and his family have
brought to MLS. “When I was playing in Real Madrid or  Manchester
United , you hardly ever -- if ever -- heard about MLS games,” he
told the New York Times shortly before winning the MLS Cup title
in November. “Now you see it all over  Sky Sports , ESPN, Fox
Soccer. You’ve got so much coverage of the game in this country
now. That says a lot. And I definitely take a lot of pride of
being part of that.”  The Beckham craze will continue in America. On January 18,
the future Hall of Famer announced that he will remain with the
MLS Galaxy through 2013 in a deal reportedly valued at $15
million, an MLS record. Beckham’s new deal with AEG also
includes an option to buy a future MLS expansion club at a
discount. For Beckham, 2012 also brings cross-promotion in Super
Bowl ads -- underwear shots for H&M -- and Olympic coverage, as
he is a top-level ambassador for the London Games. Wife
Victoria’s debut clothing line was well-received at Fashion
Week, and eldest son  Brooklyn  plays for the Galaxy’s U-13
academy team.  Hollywood will continue to be hard-pressed keeping up with
Becks.  (Click  here  to see the complete  2012 Power 100 .)  To contact the writer on this story:
Karla Swatek at  KSWAK@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Beucke at   dbeucke@bloomberg.net  