-- Mad George III Gropes Ladies as Politicians Plot: London Stage
-- B y   W a r w i c k   T h o m p s o n
-- 2012-01-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bennett-s-loony-george-iii-gropes-ladies-as-politicians-plot-london-stage.html
The subject of  Alan Bennett ’s play
“The Madness of King George III” couldn’t be more timely. What
happens when those with absolute power take a wrong turn?  The 1991 play, now at the Apollo Theatre in London, is
based on events in 1788. George III, an energetic and
hardworking monarch, starts suffering from bouts of mental
instability. One moment he’s sane. The next, he’s babbling
gibberish or publicly groping ladies-in-waiting.  The title role is a feast for David Haig, who recently
appeared as another leader scrabbling at the cliff-face of
sanity in the hit comedy “Yes, Prime Minister.” The authority,
energy and terror pour out of him like a tsunami.  The drama is set in a period when the monarch had real
political power. Prime Minister William Pitt can’t afford to
lose the support of the crown, and pretends things are fine.
Courtiers, forbidden from questioning what royalty does, ignore
the strange behavior too.  Bennett milks plenty of humor from this situation, and
neatly skewers the self-serving toadies who surround those in
power. “The state of monarchy and the state of lunacy share a
frontier,” is the pithy remark of one observer.  The tubby Prince of  Wales  (Christopher Keegan) believes he
will be made regent. “The throne! What fun!” he squeals.  Royal Willpower  Eventually, doctors are called in. Doctor Willis prescribes
the king to be bound and gagged every time his madness appears.
He must learn to fight his malady, and to conquer it by
willpower.  Suddenly the comedy is left behind, and we’re in a more
troubling space. Kindly Dr. Willis (Clive Francis) is no
monster, and he cares deeply for his patient. The results of his
brutal methods are therefore all the more shocking. The king’s
terrified pleas for clemency, and his whimpers of pain, are
heartbreaking.  His recovery at the end has emotional impact. It’s made all
the more poignant by the fact that the real George III lost his
senses again in 1810, and never regained them. The  Prince of
Wales  got his regency in the end.  Director Christopher Luscombe serves up a handsome period-
costume show. Loud bursts of Handel’s music help create colorful
scenes of pomp and pageantry that are cleverly juxtaposed with
images of the king’s suffering. The backroom politicking between
Pitt and his rival Charles Fox are clear.  The effect is spoiled somewhat by creaky autocue acting
from a couple of cast members. Occasionally you have to re-
suspend your disbelief to get back in the swing.  The benefits are great when you do. It’s a play with
laughs, ideas, wit, a touching central performance, and a happy
ending. Just what the doctor ordered.  Rating: ***.  Home Movies  The same can’t be said of “Travelling Light,” a new play
by Nicholas Wright at the National Theatre. It’s laugh-free,
idea-empty and as touching as skin on your coffee.  We’re in a Jewish shtetl in Eastern Europe, around 1900.
Young Motl Mendl inherits his uncle’s movie camera and starts
filming the locals. The local timber merchant Jacob Bindel
(Antony Sher) offers to finance a made-up story instead, and we
watch the town pool resources to make a weepie melodrama.  Mendl’s assistant Anna suggests splicing different scenes
together. Bingo! She has discovered editing. Bindel shows the
film to his family for critical feedback. Bingo! He has created
the audience preview. The zoom lens, the dolly shot, the movie
theater and the silent caption are all “discovered” in this
would-be heartwarming, comical manner.  Peasant Shtick  An older Mendl, who has become a top Hollywood director,
drops in from time to time to act as a narrator figure. Take a
gas mask, or you’ll gag on the clouds of sepia.  It’s all rather pointless, and tells us little about the
real history of cinema or of Jews in the  movie industry . The
tone veers all over the place: a clunky coincidence in Act 2
sends the story spinning wildly out of focus.  Nicholas Hytner ’s direction feels as lackluster as the play
itself, and Sher does an off-the-peg patriarchal-peasant shtick
which makes you want to throw bagels at him.  It makes “Fiddler on the Roof” look like a hard-nosed
documentary. Come back Topol, all is forgiven.  Rating: *.  “The Madness of George III” is at the Apollo Theatre
through March 31. Information:  http://www.nimaxtheatres.com  or
+44-844-412-4658.  “Travelling Light” is in repertory at the National
Theatre. Information:  http://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk  or
+44-20-7452-3000.  (Warwick Thompson is a critic for Muse, the arts and
leisure section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are
his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Warwick Thompson, in  London , at  warwicktho@aol.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 