-- Berlin’s Waldorf to Open as Hotel-Building Boom Curbs Rates
-- B y   N a d j a   B r a n d t   a n d   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-27T15:58:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/berlin-s-new-waldorf-to-open-as-city-s-hotel-boom-cuts-rates.html
Hotel Mani, a new 63-room boutique
hotel on Berlin’s Rosenthaler Platz, is bustling with suitcase-
pulling travelers arriving for Fashion Week. It’s the second
hotel Ariel Schiff has built in the trendy Mitte district, and
four more are in the pipeline.  “We’re being offered new sites every week,” Schiff, a 46-
year-old entrepreneur who was born in the city, said in an
interview last week in the hotel lobby. “There are no free
spots in Paris,  London  or  Rome .”  Schiff’s first hotel in the city, the 163-room Amano, is a
block away from the Mani and has a rooftop terrace and a bar
popular with the hipster crowd. His company plans to start work
on at least two more this year.  Investors such as Schiff are riding a wave of tourism,
fueled by low-cost airlines and events including Fashion Week.
The city has overtaken Rome as the third most-popular
destination in  Europe , after London and Paris. As the pace of
hotel construction accelerates, some operators have been forced
to cut room rates to compete in what is already one of the
country’s cheapest hotel markets.  “While many other places are facing slumps, tourism in
Berlin is still thriving,” said Kerstin Jaeger, a spokeswoman
for the  German Hotels and Restaurants Association , a lobby group
known as Dehoga. “The city has a healthy mix of business and
private travel that’s backed up by a large share of politically
related traveling, which is hardly affected by economic
weaknesses.”  Waldorf Astoria  The heads of state and other politicians who visit the
German capital often favor luxury properties such as the  Hotel
Adlon Kempinski , which is opposite the  Brandenburg Gate , and
Marriott International Inc.’s Ritz-Carlton on Potsdamer Platz.  Hilton Worldwide plans to open its first  Waldorf Astoria 
hotel in  Germany  this year near Kurfuerstendamm, West Berlin’s
best-known shopping street. The McLean, Virginia-based company,
owned by  Blackstone Group LP (BX) , said the 232-room hotel will
probably open in May. Swan Operations of  Abu Dhabi  invested
about 220 million euros ($289 million) in the project.  “Berlin is Germany’s only international metropolis and
it’s in constant transformation,” Friedrich Niemann, the
hotel’s general manager, said by telephone. “While the city
can’t support the kind of room rates that you see in London or
Paris at the moment, prices are moving in the right direction.”  Priciest Room  The Waldorf Astoria is taking bookings from Sept. 1, with
prices ranging from 350 euros a night to about 4,385 euros for
the King Ambassador Suite.  “We are looking for more opportunities in the city,” said
Patrick Fitzgibbon, senior vice president for development in
Europe and  Africa  at Hilton. “Demand has been steadily
increasing and rooms rates will catch up.”  The company has 110 European hotels in the pipeline and
aims to expand its Hilton Garden Inn, Doubletree and Hamptons
brands in Germany’s largest city, Fitzgibbon said. U.K.-based
 InterContinental Hotels Group Plc (IHG)  plans to open four hotels
there this year: a  Holiday Inn  on Alexanderplatz, a Crowne Plaza
on Potsdamer Platz and two Indigo boutique hotels.  The number of hotel rooms in Berlin rose 4.7 percent last
year, the biggest increase since at least 2006, STR Global data
show. The city of about 3.5 million people had 604 hotels in
November, more than  New York ’s 547, according to the research
company. The U.S. city’s room count is larger than Berlin’s
because the average hotel size is bigger.  Projects that are planned or already under way will
increase Berlin’s room count by 6.8 percent, STR estimates.  Best Western  The market is evenly shared by small, independent operators
such as Schiff and larger brands owned by companies including
Hilton. Other chains include Phoenix-based Best Western
International Inc., which has 12 Berlin hotels, and Wyndham
Worldwide Corp., a Parsippany, New Jersey-based company that
runs five properties in the city, according to their websites.  Most of the new hotels are smaller and cheaper than the
Waldorf Astoria. Indeed, the construction boom that added 2,662
rooms in the 12 months through November contributed to a 2.1
percent drop in the average daily rate from January through
November, to 86.10 euros, according to STR. That’s the second-
lowest among 14 major global markets and compares with an
average rate of 100.25 euros for all of Europe.  ‘Massive Competition’  “There is now massive competition,” said Thomas
Lengfelder, Dehoga’s chief operating officer. “The market may
already be saturated.”  Berlin’s hotel occupancy rate was 70 percent at the end of
last year, STR Global said. That’s more than the European
average of 66 percent, though less than London’s 82 percent and
Paris’s 79 percent.  Hotel Mani opened on Jan. 2, increasing the number of
hotels on or close to Rosenthaler Platz to five. They also
include Berlin’s first EasyHotel, an affiliate of low-cost
airline  EasyJet Plc (EZJ) , which offers rooms for as little as 25
euros a night, according to its website.  Rosa-Luxemburg-Platz, another square in the Mitte district,
and the area around Berlin’s six-year-old main railway station
have also become hotel hubs.  Unlike other major cities, Berlin still has pockets of land
left over from World War II fire-bombing raids that, according
to the local government’s website, destroyed 600,000 apartments.
The  Cold War , meanwhile, was responsible for the  Berlin Wall .
The former “death strip” between the eastern and western
borders is now prime real estate in the city’s center.  ‘Experimental Edge’  Berlin’s turbulent past has become part of its appeal as
tourist destination, along with the city’s reputation as a
magnet for creative industries such as software makers, fashion,
publishing and the arts.  “There’s more of an experimental edge to Berlin than you
will find in any other German city,” said Mark Wynne-Smith,
head of Jones Lang LaSalle’s hotel unit. “That’s drawing
visitors.”  Mayor Klaus Wowereit, who coined the oft-cited description
of Berlin as “poor but sexy,” said in November that he wants
the city to “get richer and stay sexy.”  Berlin’s new international  airport  may help Wowereit
achieve his goal. Berlin Brandenburg Airport is due to open in
June and, according to Lengfelder, will help boost the number of
overnight stays in the city to 30 million by 2017 from 22
million last year. That’s after the figure doubled in a decade.  Overseas Visitors  “We have high hopes that the new airport will bring in
even more people,” particularly from  Asia  and  North America ,
Lengfelder said. “We need them if we want to keep the hotels
occupied.”  The falling room rates make this a matter of survival for
smaller, more price-sensitive hotels. Double rooms at the Mani
in February, for example, cost 74 euros to 140 euros, according
to the  hotel’s booking website .  “The margin pressure exists,” said Schiff, sitting on a
gray suede sofa. Above his head hangs a photo of the investor
and his team in fancy dress, gathered around a naked model
reclining on a dinner table.  “In Berlin, hotels can only be profitable with high
occupancy rates,” he said. “That’s still possible if the
concept’s right.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Nadja Brandt in  Los Angeles  at 
 nbrandt@bloomberg.net ;
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Andrew Blackman  at 
 ablackman@bloomberg.net ;
Daniel Taub at   dtaub@bloomberg.net . 