-- Bernanke Makes Case for Further Asset Purchases as Fed Sets Inflation Goal
-- B y   C a r o l i n e   S a l a s   G a g e   a n d   C r a i g   T o r r e s
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bernanke-makes-case-for-further-asset-purchases-as-fed-sets-inflation-goal.html
Ben S. Bernanke  laid the groundwork
for a third round of large-scale asset purchases should
unemployment remain higher than the Federal Reserve would like
while inflation falls below a newly-established target.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  “recognizes the
hardships imposed by high and persistent unemployment in an
underperforming economy, and it is prepared to provide further
monetary accommodation,” Bernanke said yesterday at a press
conference in Washington.  Stocks and Treasuries rallied after policy makers said the
benchmark  interest rate  would stay low until at least late 2014,
pushing back a previous date of mid-2013. Fed officials also
lowered their projections for economic expansion and inflation
for this year and next.  “It was an unambiguous, aggressive statement,” said  Julia Coronado , chief economist for  North America  at BNP Paribas in
New York. “My expectation is that we are going to get
quantitative easing three in April,” she said, referring to a
third round of bond buying.  The U.S. central bank’s “two main tools” to boost growth
are asset purchases and communications, and bond buying is “an
option that is certainly on the table,” Bernanke said. “The
unemployment level is elevated and the inflation outlook is
subdued.”  Policy makers yesterday set a long-term goal of 2 percent
inflation, and forecast that price increases would fall short of
that target this year and next. The personal consumption
expenditures price  index (SPX)  climbed 2.5 percent for the 12 months
ending in November.  Pushing Transparency  Setting an inflation target was a longtime aim for
Bernanke, a former Princeton University professor who mentioned
it in his nomination hearing in 2005 and who has pushed the Fed
to be more transparent in its dealings with the public.  “If there’s a need to let inflation” return “a little
more slowly to target in order to get a better result on
employment, then that’s something that we would be willing to
do,” Bernanke said.  Inflation will range from 1.4 percent to 1.8 percent this
year, and 1.4 percent to 2 percent in 2013, Fed officials
forecast. In November, they projected inflation of 1.4 percent
to 2 percent in 2012, and 1.5 percent to 2 percent next year.  “You have a 2 percent inflation target and guess what: you
are below target” in their central tendency forecast for this
year, said Roberto Perli, managing director of policy research
at International Strategy and Investment Group Inc. in
 Washington . “If the fourth quarter’s growth is not sustained,
and inflation remains subdued, then quantitative easing three in
the spring is a good bet.”  Picking Up Speed  The Fed pushed back its horizon for the first interest-rate
increase since June 2006 even as recent reports on
manufacturing, housing and employment indicated that the economy
was picking up speed as the new year began.  Employers added 200,000 jobs in December, twice the
previous month’s pace, and the  unemployment rate  dropped to 8.5
percent from 8.7 percent the month before. Household wealth has
also gotten a boost from rising stock prices, with the Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index of stocks climbing 5.4 percent this year
through yesterday.  “There has certainly been some encouraging news recently,”
Bernanke said. Still, “we continue to see headwinds from  Europe ,
coming from the slowing global economy and some other factors as
well.”  Forecasts Lowered  Fed officials lowered their forecast for growth this year
to 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, down from a projection of 2.5
percent to 2.9 percent in November. They predicted the economy
next year will expand 2.8 percent to 3.2 percent, compared with
a previous forecast of 3.0 percent to 3.5 percent.  Bernanke has “a very dovish attitude,” said  Robert Eisenbeis , a former research director at the  Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta who’s now chief monetary economist for Sarasota,
Florida-based Cumberland Advisors. “They downplayed the extent
to which the economy seemed to be doing a little better and said
the employment situation is a major concern.”  Additional asset purchases might fan criticism of the Fed
that has extended to the presidential campaign trail. Republican
candidates  Mitt Romney  and  Newt Gingrich  have said they wouldn’t
keep Bernanke, 58, whose four-year term as Fed chairman expires
on Jan. 31, 2014.  “I’m not going to get involved in political rhetoric,”
Bernanke said in response to a question about whether he’d
resign if a Republican were elected president in November and
asked him to do so. “As long as I’m here, I will do everything
I can to help the Federal Reserve achieve its dual mandate of
 price stability  and maximum employment.”  Political Backlash  Bernanke’s second round of bond buying, called QE2 by
analysts and traders, sparked the harshest political backlash
against the Fed in three decades, with Republican lawmakers
saying the program risked accelerating prices.  Yesterday’s extension of the commitment to keep rates low
reduced borrowing costs in the  bond market . The  yield  on the
current five-year Treasury note fell 10 basis points to 0.80
percent after touching the record low of 0.76 percent.  This latest stimulus step was intended “to convey to the
market the extent to which there is support on the committee for
maintaining rates at a low level for a significant time,”
Bernanke said.  Lacker Dissents  Richmond Fed Bank President  Jeffrey Lacker  dissented from
yesterday’s decision because he “preferred to omit the
description of the time period over which economic conditions
are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels of the federal
funds rate,” according to the FOMC statement.  In August, the Fed pledged to keep its benchmark rate
“exceptionally low” until mid-2013, and in September it
decided to replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its
portfolio with longer-term Treasuries in an effort to lower
borrowing costs even more. The moves followed two rounds of
large-scale asset purchases totaling $2.3 trillion that ended
last June.  The 2013 rate pledge and the maturity-extension program,
dubbed Operation Twist, drew three dissents, the most since
1992.  Bernanke “may have his work cut out for him to convince
the holdouts on the committee that a double dose of QE is
necessary,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. “One thing is for sure, and
that is the Fed Chairman is itching to do more.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Caroline Salas Gage in  New York  at 
 csalas1@bloomberg.net ;
Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  