-- Bernanke Achieves Milestone in Fed Transparency Drive With Inflation Goal
-- B y   C r a i g   T o r r e s   a n d   J o s h   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bernanke-moves-fed-toward-more-openness-with-2-inflation-goal.html
Ben S. Bernanke  achieved one of his
primary goals as Federal Reserve chairman yesterday by setting a
numeric goal for inflation, advancing his legacy of greater
transparency at the world’s most influential central bank.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  committed to holding
inflation at 2 percent, concluding years of debate that Bernanke
advanced after becoming Fed chief in 2006. Starting with his
confirmation hearing in 2005, Bernanke said an inflation goal
would reduce “public uncertainty” while anchoring long-run
expectations about policy making.  “An important aspect of policy transparency is clarity
about policy objectives,” Bernanke said in a press conference
yesterday. “Clearly communicating to the public this 2 percent
goal for inflation over the longer run should help foster  price
stability  and moderate long-term  interest rates .”  The Fed joins at least 12 other central banks such as the
 Reserve Bank  of  New Zealand , the central bank of  Sweden  and the
Bank of  Mexico  in specifying its inflation target. Unlike many
of its counterparts, the  U.S. central bank  must also follow a
congressional mandate to promote full employment, or the maximum
amount of jobs created before firms bid up wages.  The 58-year-old Fed chairman began holding press
conferences for the first time last year as part of a broader
effort to reveal more to the public about central bank
operations. The FOMC now publishes policy makers’ forecasts four
times a year, up from two during the era of Fed Chairman  Alan Greenspan . In November the committee released new data that
reveals its changing views on risk and uncertainty.  First Time  U.S. central bankers for the first time yesterday published
their forecasts for the federal funds rate. The projections show
a majority of policy makers expect the benchmark lending rate to
remain below 1 percent for the next three years.  “It’s exactly what they needed to do,” said former Fed
Governor  Frederic Mishkin , referring to the inflation target.  “It’s extremely important to do this at the same time as
they announced projections for interest-rate paths because
interest rate paths really don’t make sense unless you
understand how they fit into a long-run context of doing
monetary policy,” said Mishkin, a professor at Columbia
University’s Graduate School of Business.  Minutes of yesterday’s meeting, to be released in three
weeks, will include “qualitative information” regarding FOMC
participants’ expectations for the central bank’s $2.92 trillion
balance sheet for the first time.  The Fed’s obligation to ensure full employment “stands on
an equal footing” with the price goal, Bernanke said, adding
that the central bank will be flexible in pursuing both
congressionally-mandated objectives.  New Forecasts  The central bank also announced yesterday new forecasts for
inflation, gross domestic product and unemployment for the next
three years. The economic forecasts show officials expect little
improvement in the  unemployment rate  by the fourth quarter of
this year compared with the 8.5 percent last month.  The personal consumption expenditures price index -- the
price measure officials chose for their inflation target -- is
expected to be below the 2 percent goal at the end of this year.
The FOMC’s central tendency estimate for the PCE index was 1.4
to 1.8 percent for this year, 1.4 percent to 2 percent next
year, and 1.6 percent to 2 percent in 2014. The measure rose to
2.5 percent for the 12 months ending November.  The inflation target “is going to build confidence in the
markets,” said  Mark Gertler , a New York University economist
who has published research with Bernanke. “The Fed is not going
to allow deflation to take hold.”  Policy Guide  During the news conference Bernanke put the numeric
inflation goal to use as a policy guide, noting that the Fed may
provide more accommodation if its forecasts accurately predict
that the economy is underperforming the central bank’s mandate.  “If the situation continues with inflation below target
and unemployment declining at a rate which is very, very slow,
then the logic of our framework says we should be looking for
ways to do more,” Bernanke said at the press conference.  Inflation expectations yesterday rose to 2.14 percent over
the next 10 years versus 2.07 percent the previous day,
according to the difference in yields on Treasury Inflation
Protected Securities and nominal government bonds.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   Craig Torres in Washington at 
 ctorres3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  