-- Blackstone Said to Seek Debt in Bid to Seize Chicago Tower
-- B y   S a r a h   M u l h o l l a n d   a n d   H u i - y o n g   Y u
-- 2012-01-27T20:11:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/blackstone-said-to-seek-debt-in-bid-to-take-over-chicago-s-hancock-tower.html
The owners of  Chicago ’s fourth-
tallest building are running out of time to refinance debt taken
on during the property boom, setting the stage for a takeover
fight for the tower as firms including  Blackstone Group LP (BX)  try
to gain the upper hand in lender negotiations.  Golub & Co. and  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) ’s Whitehall real
estate fund have about $400 million in loans coming due next
month on the 100-story John Hancock Center, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. The debt, including a $182 million
mortgage that was packaged into bonds, financed their
acquisition of the property in January 2007, when it was valued
at $410 million, the data show.  Borrowers are struggling to refinance a wave of loans made
at the market’s peak, allowing investors to acquire marquee
buildings through debt purchases. Blackstone, based in New York,
is close to completing a deal to buy $100 million of mezzanine
debt on John Hancock Center so it can try to take control of the
tower, according to two people with knowledge of the situation
who declined to be named because the discussions are private.  Peter Rose , a Blackstone spokesman, and Andrea Raphael of
Goldman Sachs declined to comment, as did Mary Ellen Smith,
director of marketing for Chicago-based Golub & Co.  Buying slices of lower-ranking debt to take ownership of
commercial properties has become a common strategy as defaults
surged in the past two years.  ‘Often a Race’  “Once a maturity default occurs on multiple loans securing
a property, that frees the lenders up to go ahead and enforce
their remedies,” said Kevin O’Shea, head of the U.S. real
estate group at law firm  Allen & Overy LLP , who isn’t involved
in the John Hancock Center transaction. “It’s often a race to
see who goes first.”  The Willis Tower, formerly known as  Sears Tower , is the
tallest building in the city, followed by the Trump
International Hotel & Tower Chicago and the Aon Center,
according to the Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat,
based in Chicago. John Hancock Center is 1,128 feet (344 meters)
tall.  The building, completed in 1970, has an  observatory  on the
94th floor that is one of Chicago’s biggest tourist attractions.
Besides having 896,980 square feet (83,332 square meters) of
 office space , the property at 875 N. Michigan Ave. includes
171,771 square feet of retail space, a parking garage and 49
floors of residential condominiums.  Shifting Tenant Tastes  A new owner may look to sell the property off in parts to
maximize value, said Mark Zytko, co-chief executive officer of
 Mesa West Capital , a Los Angeles-based manager of more than $2
billion in real estate loan funds. While the building is an
architectural icon, office tenant tastes are shifting toward
properties with more space on each floor and campus-style
buildings, he said. Distance from train transit also is a
drawback, Zytko said.  Chicago’s property values relative to  New York  and
Washington help make it attractive to buyers, said  Dan Fasulo ,
managing director of Real Capital Analytics Inc. in New York.
John Hancock Center would be valued at about $415 million today,
based on estimated net operating income of $24.9 million and a
capitalization rate of 6 percent, he said. At a 6.5 percent cap
rate -- a property’s net operating income divided by purchase
price -- the value would fall to about $383 million, he said.  “In markets one notch down from New York and D.C., like
Chicago, we’ve seen the greatest amount of cap-rate
compression” recently, Fasulo said.  Magnificent Mile  John Hancock Center was the third tower in the world to
surpass 1,000 feet when it was built, following the Chrysler
Building and Empire State Building in  Manhattan , according to
property-data provider  Emporis GmbH . The tower’s located in the
Magnificent Mile section of Chicago, known for its shopping and
high-end hotels.  The building was about 26 percent vacant at the time of the
purchase, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The current
vacancy rate is 17.2 percent, according to Smith of Golub & Co.  About $55 billion of commercial property loans sold as
securities come due in 2012, with $19 billion of those
originated in 2007, according to  Standard & Poor’s . More than
half of the 2007 loans may fail to refinance, the New York-based
rating company said in a Dec. 19 report. Sales of commercial-
mortgage bonds reached a record $234 billion in 2007, fueling a
boom in property values, Bloomberg data show.  Late payments on loans packaged into bonds were at 8.95
percent in December, down from 9 percent in November, according
to S&P. The rating company forecasts delinquencies will rise to
between 9.5 percent and 10 percent in 2012.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sarah Mulholland in New York at 
 smulholland3@bloomberg.net ;
Hui-yong Yu in Seattle at 
 hyu@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net ;
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  