-- BOJ Should Be Allowed $643 Billion Fund to Buy Foreign Bonds, Iwata Says
-- B y   T o r u   F u j i o k a   a n d   M a s a h i r o   H i d a k a
-- 2012-01-26T04:18:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/boj-should-be-allowed-643-billion-fund-to-buy-foreign-bonds-iwata-says.html
Japan’s finance minister should
allow the central bank to create a 50-trillion yen ($643
billion) fund to buy foreign bonds to combat the yen’s gains, a
former  Bank of Japan  deputy governor said.  “Everything will be solved once the finance minister says
okay,” Kazumasa Iwata, 65, said in an interview in Tokyo
yesterday. As a member of a government panel on national
strategy, Iwata proposed the facility in October, an idea
Finance Minister  Jun Azumi  signaled he was reluctant to embrace
because it would be equivalent to currency intervention, which
is dictated by his ministry.  BOJ law states any buying or selling of currency to
stabilize  currency markets  requires the finance minister’s
permission and doesn’t forbid the purchase of foreign bonds,
said Iwata, who served as a deputy at the BOJ from 2003-2008.
Authorities intervened by selling the yen at least three times
last year, efforts that failed to curb the yen’s advance.  “I don’t think buying foreign bonds, even with 50 trillion
yen, can change the currency market trend,” saidTohru Sasaki,
head of  Japan  rates and foreign-exchange research at JPMorgan
Chase & Co. and the most-accurate forecaster for the yen’s level
against the dollar last year. “The market is like a big river
and the purchase would be equivalent to trying to reverse the
current by throwing a bucket of water at it.”  Using the fund to buy bonds from the European Financial
Stability Facility would also help authorities mitigate the
yen’s advance against the euro, he said. The  Finance Ministry 
has been tapping euros in its foreign-exchange reserves to buy
EFSF bonds, meaning the purchases don’t affect the yen’s
exchange rate against the joint currency.  Iwata, currently president of thinktank Japan Center for
Economic Reserach, said even companies like Toyota Motor Corp.,
which has built up a tolerance to an appreciating currency over
the years, has been “screaming” about the yen, which rose to a
postwar high of 75.35 against the dollar in October.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Toru Fujioka in  Tokyo  at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Panckhurst at 
 ppanckhurst@bloomberg.net  