-- BP Can’t Collect Part of Gulf Spill Costs From Transocean
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .
-- 2012-01-27T16:19:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bp-must-indemnify-transocean-for-some-damages-in-gulf-of-mexico-oil-spill.html
BP Plc (BP)  can’t collect from  Transocean
Ltd. (RIG)  part of the $40 billion in cleanup costs and economic
losses caused by the 2010 oil well blowout and  Gulf of Mexico 
spill, a judge ruled. Transocean shares rose on the news.  BP must indemnify Transocean for pollution-related economic
damage claims under its drilling contract, U.S. District Judge
 Carl Barbier  in New Orleans ruled yesterday.  London-based BP (BP/) 
sued Transocean in April to recover a share of its damages and
costs from the spill.  Any awards for punitive damages against Transocean or civil
penalties under the U.S. Clean Water Act won’t have to be
covered by BP, the judge wrote in his 30-page decision. He
didn’t say whether Transocean will be liable for punitive
damages or  Clean Water Act  penalties. Transocean has already
accepted responsibility for equipment losses and paying personal
injury and death claims, citing contract provisions.  “This confirms that BP is responsible for all economic
damages caused by the oil that leaked from its Macondo well, and
completely discredits BP’s ongoing attempts to evade both its
contractual and financial obligations,” Transocean said in an
e-mailed statement. “Transocean is pleased to see its position
affirmed, consistent with the law and the long-established model
for allocating risks in the offshore oil and gas industry.”  Transocean’s Risk  The decision leaves Transocean at risk for Clean Water Act
penalties and possible punitive damages. The U.S. sued BP and
Transocean in December 2010, alleging violations of the Clean
Water Act, and seeking penalties for each barrel of oil spilled.  “Under the decision Transocean is, at a minimum,
financially responsible for any punitive damages, fines and
penalties flowing from its own conduct,” BP said in a
statement. “Transocean cannot avoid its responsibility for this
accident.”  Transocean, based in Vernier,  Switzerland , rose as much as
9.3 percent in Zurich, the most intraday in more than five
months. The stock was 2.3 percent higher at 44.46 francs at 4:43
p.m. Swiss time.  BP fell 2.3 percent in  London  to 465.6 pence as of 3:52
p.m. local time.  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , which is seeking a similar indemnification
ruling, climbed $1.20, or 3.3 percent, to $37.36 at 11:01 a.m.
in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  Transocean asked Barbier to find that its drilling contract
with BP promised indemnification for damages from oil spilled
below the surface of the Gulf of Mexico and should be enforced
for claims over the Deepwater Horizon accident.  BP argued that Transocean’s conduct voided the agreement.  Deferred Ruling  “BP is required to indemnify Transocean for compensatory
damages asserted by third parties against Transocean related to
pollution that did not originate on or above the surface of the
water, even if the claim is the result of Transocean’s strict
liability” or negligence or gross negligence, Barbier wrote in
yesterday’s decision.  Transocean said that contract required indemnification even
if there was gross negligence. BP disagreed.  Barbier said he would defer ruling on “BP’s arguments that
Transocean breached the drilling contract or committed an act
that materially increased BP’s risk or prejudiced its rights.”  Eleven Killed  The April 2010 Macondo well blowout and the  explosion  that
followed killed 11 workers and set off the worst offshore  oil
spill  in U.S. history. The sinking of Transocean’s Deepwater
Horizon drilling rig and spill led to hundreds of lawsuits
against BP and its partners and contractors.  Halliburton, which provided cementing services for the
project, is also seeking indemnification for compensatory
damages. Barbier hasn’t ruled on Halliburton’s request.  “Halliburton has a similar motion pending in the
litigation and we look forward to the ruling on that motion,”
Beverly Stafford, a company spokeswoman, said yesterday in an e-
mail.  The case is In Re Oil Spill by the Oil Rig Deepwater
Horizon in the Gulf of Mexico on April 20, 2010, MDL-2179, U.S.
District Court, Eastern District of  Louisiana  ( New Orleans ).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Detroit at 
 mcfisk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  