-- Brandywine’s McIntyre Exits Canadian Bonds, Currency for Mexico
-- B y   C e c i l e   G u t s c h e r
-- 2012-01-26T16:59:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/brandywine-s-mcintyre-exits-canadian-bonds-currency-for-mexico.html
Brandywine Global Investment
Management’s fund manager Jack McIntyre is exiting the Canadian
bond and currency markets because the loonie is overvalued and
he sees better opportunities in  Mexico .  McIntyre, who oversees $25 billion of debt at the unit of
Legg Mason Inc., had about 4 percent of his holdings in Canadian
dollars and bonds at the start of the year. He is allocating
funds to Mexico instead, where he said a productive workforce is
luring foreign companies and investment.  “We’ve exited our Canadian positions as of a few trading
sessions ago,” McIntyre said in a phone interview yesterday
from Philadelphia. “Canada has gotten to be an expensive place
to live and, more importantly, do business. The Canadian dollar
is overvalued. Companies are shifting production away from
Canada to the U.S. and Mexico.”  McIntyre has lifted his allocation to Mexico to 9 percent
from about 5 percent at the end of the third quarter, he said.  “Real yields are attractive, and the peso is
undervalued,” he said. “That’s an ideal scenario for us.”  Mexico’s peso is the best performer against the  U.S. dollar 
this year among the 16 most-traded counterparts tracked by
Bloomberg, having rallied 7.8 percent while the Canadian dollar
has appreciated 2.2 percent.  “When you move away from the headlines about the drug
cartels, the underlying economic fundamentals in Mexico are very
positive,” McIntyre said.  The extra yield investors get for holding Mexican bonds
instead of Canadian securities fell today to 1.82 percentage
points, almost the narrowest since November, according to Bank
of America Merrill Lynch indexes.  “Mexico continues to be a beneficiary of direct foreign
investment, has a low inflation rate and a young, increasingly
productive workforce,” McIntyre said. “Mexico is becoming more
competitive with  China  on a cost-of-production basis. Why not
set up your manufacturing operations close to your end customer,
the U.S. consumer? Mexico is a better place to set up factories
than the U.S. or  Canada .”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cecile Gutscher in Toronto at 
 cgutscher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  