-- Brazil’s Central Bank Sees Key Rate Falling to Single Digit
-- B y   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w   a n d   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t
-- 2012-01-26T20:31:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/brazil-central-bank-sees-high-chance-of-selic-falling-to-single-digits.html
Brazil ’s central bank said there is
a “high” chance its benchmark rate will drop below 10 percent,
signaling it remains focused on spurring economic growth even as
record-low unemployment pressures consumer prices. Yields on
interest rate futures plunged.  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, said
it sees significant structural changes in Brazil’s economy that
will allow it to continue lowering borrowing costs, according to
the  minutes  from its Jan. 17-18 meeting published today.  After growth in the world’s second-biggest emerging market
slowed in the second half of last year more than expected, and
in the absence of a solution to  Europe ’s debt crisis, the bank
said it sees “a high probability for the realization of an
outlook in which the Selic rate moves toward a single digit.”
The board voted unanimously last week to reduce the rate to 10.5
percent, as forecast by all 67 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Following today’s minutes, traders scrapped bets that signs
of faster growth, quickening inflation and an improved outlook
in global markets would lead policy makers to end their easing
cycle soon. The yield on interest rate futures maturing in Jan.
2013 fell 18 basis points to 9.66 percent. It was the biggest
drop since October.  “After the recent developments domestically and
internationally, the market was expecting the Selic at 10
percent,” said Flavio Serrano, senior economist at Espirito
Santo Investment Bank in  Sao Paulo . “We will revise our
forecast downwards for sure.”  ‘Trend’  The government will maintain its current fiscal policy,
which is sufficient for  interest rates  to fall to single digits,
Finance Minister  Guido Mantega  said today.  Inflation would still converge toward its 4.5 percent
target, he added.  “I don’t know if we’ll reach the target exactly, but what
matters is the trend,” he said in a conference call with
reporters.  Analysts are not convinced. The explicit signaling of a
lower rate, combined with a separate report today showing
unemployment in December fell to a record, means the bank is
unlikely to bring inflation to its 4.5 percent target this year
or in 2013, they said. Inflation in mid-January was 6.44
percent.  “The strategy being adopted is to prioritize economic
growth at the expense of more control over inflation,”  Luciano Rostagno , chief strategist at Banco WestLB do Brasil in Sao
Paulo, said in a phone interview.  Jobs  Today’s jobs report showed that Brazil’s labor market
remains heated as the country spends billions of dollars
revamping its infrastructure ahead of the 2014 World Cup and
Petroleo Brasileiro SA and other companies develop the biggest
oil finds in the Americas in three decades.  The  unemployment  rate fell to 4.7 percent in Brazil’s six
biggest metropolitan areas last month, spurred in part by
seasonal hiring ahead of Christmas. Economists had expected the
rate to fall to only 4.9 percent from the previous record of 5.2
percent in November, according to the median estimate of 38
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  Brazil has taken the lead among emerging market economies
in cutting borrowing costs to protect itself from the European
debt crisis. The country’s surprise interest rate cut in August,
the first in two years, has since been followed by policy makers
in  Russia ,  Indonesia ,  Chile ,  Israel  and elsewhere.  Rate, Growth, Inflation  President  Dilma Rousseff , a career bureaucrat who took
office a year ago, has repeatedly said that her goal is to lower
interest rates that are still the highest among any of the Group
of 20 richest nations. Brazil will adopt this year a
“rigorous” fiscal policy to pave the way for lower rates,
Finance Minister Guido Mantega said this week.  Even the bank has acknowledged inflationary risks arising
from strong domestic demand. In the minutes today, it said that
the labor market remains “robust” and may lead to wage
increases that could have “negative repercussions on inflation
dynamics.”  Consumer prices rose 0.65 percent in mid-January from the
previous month, the biggest jump since May, while annual
inflation, at 6.44 percent, remains near the 6.5 percent upper
limit of the bank’s target range. Inflation will slow to 5.29
percent this year, according to a Jan. 20 central bank survey of
about 100 economists.  Recovery Signs  Serrano said he is now likely to revise upwards his current
forecast for prices to rise 5.4 percent this year and 5.1
percent in 2013.  “The bank said inflation dynamics have improved, but we
think they are getting worse,” he added.  Brazil’s $2.1 trillion economy is showing signs of
recovering after shrinking in the third quarter for the first
time since 2009.  The central bank’s  economic activity  index, a proxy for
gross domestic product, expanded at its fastest pace in 19
months in November, reversing a three-month contraction, while
retail sales grew at their fastest pace in 15 months.  The  International Monetary Fund  said this week that  Latin
America ’s biggest economy should expand 3 percent this year,
less than the 4 percent the government is targeting and in-line
with the pace of growth last year.  Mexico , the region’s second-biggest economy, will grow 3.5
percent as the U.S. recovery gains momentum, the IMF said.  The government has been helping sustain growth by cutting
taxes and easing restrictions on  consumer credit , which is now
expanding at an 18 percent annual pace.  The faster growth has helped lure foreign investment that’s
behind a 7.3 percent surge by the real this year, the second-
best performance of 16 major currencies tracked by Bloomberg
after the  Mexican peso .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net ;
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia Newsroom at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  