-- Rate-Futures Yields Plunge as Central Bank Signals Cuts: Brasilia Mover
-- B y   J o s u e   L e o n e l   a n d   G a b r i e l l e   C o p p o l a
-- 2012-01-26T20:25:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/brazil-rate-futures-yields-fall-as-central-bank-signals-sub-10-selic-rate.html
Yields on Brazilian  interest-rate 
futures contracts fell the most in almost four months after the
central bank signaled plans to cut the benchmark interest rate
by at least another full percentage point.  The yield on the contract due in January 2013, the most
actively-traded today in Sao Paulo, plunged 18 basis points, or
0.18 percentage point, to 9.66 percent. It was the biggest
decline on a closing basis since Oct. 3. The real advanced 0.7
percent to 1.7491 per  U.S. dollar , from 1.7620 yesterday. The
currency earlier touched 1.7320, the strongest since Nov. 4.  There is a “high” probability interest rates will fall to
one digit because of significant structural changes in  Brazil ’s
economy, including the expansion of the credit market, the
central bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, said
in the minutes of its Jan. 17-18 meeting published today. After
the report, traders scrapped bets that faster-than-forecast
inflation and record-low unemployment would prompt policy makers
to cut interest rates to no lower than 10 percent from 10.5
percent.  “There’s the fundamental news today that the Selic will
continue to go lower,”  Roberto Padovani , the chief economist
with Votorantim CTVM Ltda., said in an interview from Sao Paulo.
“I was expecting Selic at 10 percent but I think the more
probable outcome is 9.5 percent.”  Brazil’s central bank board voted unanimously Jan. 18 to
reduce the benchmark rate to 10.5 percent, as forecast by all 67
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Policy makers have cut borrowing
costs by 2 percentage points since August to protect  Latin
America ’s largest economy from the European debt crisis.  Traders are anticipating Tombini will reduce the Selic rate
to as low as 9.5 percent by May, rate futures show.  ‘Flexible’ Monetary Policy  Brazil will make room for a more “flexible” monetary
policy by containing public spending as part of a plan to ensure
economic growth of at least 4 percent this year, Finance
Minister  Guido Mantega  told reporters this week.  President  Dilma Rousseff ’s administration will cut enough
of its 2012 budget to ensure the government meets its target of
a  budget surplus  before interest payments of 139.8 billion reais
($80.5 billion), Mantega said.  Consumer prices  rose 0.65 percent in the month through mid-
January, the national statistic agency said Jan. 24. The
increase was bigger than forecast by all 44 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg, whose median estimate was a 0.56 percent rise.  U.S. Rate Outlook  The  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep U.S. borrowing costs
near zero through 2014, a sign it doesn’t expect a fast
recovery, also contributed to the decline in interest-rate
futures yields, Padovani said. Lower rates are justified by “a
fiscal policy that permits this and an external outlook that
also contributes to lower interest rates,” he said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday policy makers
are considering more bond purchases to boost growth after
extending a pledge to keep interest rates low through at least
late 2014.  The real, the second-best performer among major currencies
today, rallied on Bernanke’s comments as investors bet near-zero
rates in the U.S. will fuel demand for higher-yielding Brazilian
assets, said Marina Santos, chief economist at Squanto
Investimentos in  Sao Paulo .  “Since rates in the U.S. are going to remain low for a
long time, we could have greater inflows into Brazil,” Santos
said in a telephone interview. “The carry trade will become
more attractive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Josue Leonel in Sao Paulo at 
 jleonel@bloomberg.net ;
Gabrielle Coppola in Sao Paulo at 
 gcoppola@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  