-- Brazil Grants Visa to Cuban on Eve of Rousseff’s Trip
-- B y   R a y m o n d   C o l i t t   a n d   M a t t h e w   B r i s t o w
-- 2012-02-06T14:19:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/brazil-issues-visa-to-dissident-cuban-blogger-on-eve-of-rousseff-s-visit.html
(Corrects story from Jan. 26 to change description of
photograph in Sanchez blog in fifth paragraph.)  Brazil  issued a tourist visa to a
dissident Cuban blogger a few days before President  Dilma Rousseff  is scheduled to travel to the communist island in a
visit being dominated by human rights concerns.  Yoani Sanchez, an outspoken critic of  Raul Castro ’s
government, requested permission to travel to Brazil so she
could attend the screening next month of a documentary in which
she appears, the foreign ministry said in a statement. The visa
was issued by Brazil’s embassy in  Havana .  The 36-year-old philologist, who has repeatedly been
blocked from leaving Cuba, celebrated the decision. “Now comes
the most difficult part: the permission to leave,” she said in
a message posted on her Twitter account yesterday.  Rousseff has been under pressure to meet with Sanchez and
other activists during her Jan. 31-Feb. 1 visit after a jailed
dissident, Wilman Villar, died last week during a 50-day hunger
strike. Sanchez appealed this week directly to Rousseff,
invoking the president’s experience surviving prison and torture
at the hands of Brazil’s 1964-1985 military dictatorship.  “I saw a photo of young Dilma sitting in the dock, being
judged by men with their faces covered,” Sanchez  wrote  Jan. 24
on Twitter. “I feel that way right now.”  Taking Distance  Rousseff has vowed to make human rights a priority of her
foreign policy, and in condemning abuses in  Iran  has taken
distance from the policies of her predecessor and mentor,  Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva .  Lula refused to meet with dissidents during his last
presidential visit to Cuba in 2010, which coincided with the
death of another jailed hunger striker. At the time, the former
union leader said he had never received a formal request for any
such meeting. He later drew rebuke in Brazil for comparing the
Cuban dissidents to “criminals” in  Sao Paulo  jails.  “Dilma can’t criticize Castro’s regime because of the
historical ties between Castro, Lula and the left-wing movement
in Brazil,” said Joao Augusto de Castro Neves, a Latin America
analyst at the Eurasia Group, a Washington-based political risk
company. “But at the same time, she can’t ignore the human
rights issue in Cuba.”  ‘Discrete Intervention’  Any attempts by Rousseff, or any other leader, to publicly
criticize Cuba’s rights record may be counterproductive, said
Fernando Morais, the author of a best-selling 1976 Brazilian
book sympathetic to the Castro government called “The Island.”  “I think that discrete intervention can help human rights
more than loud gestures,” said Morais, whose latest book is
about Cubans who moved to the U.S. in the 1990s to spy on anti-
Castro groups.  As part of the preparations for Rousseff’s visit next week,
her government notified Cuban authorities that it would grant
Sanchez the visa, said a Brazilian official with direct
knowledge of the talks. Brazil routinely grants tourist visas to
Cuban citizens who request it, said the official, who is not
authorized to discuss the matter publicly.  Rousseff was jailed in 1970 for three years for her
involvement in an armed guerrilla movement inspired by Raul and
brother  Fidel Castro ’s 1959 revolution. While Sanchez’s visa
request has dominated Brazilian newspaper headlines in recent
days, Rousseff’s trip -- her first as president -- is supposed
to be focused on trade.  Brazil Investment  Brazilian companies have stepped up their presence in Cuba
in recent years, as the Castro government has taken steps to
attract foreign investment to its cash-strapped, state-dominated
economy. Brazilian construction company Odebrecht SA is part of
a consortium expanding the port of Mariel, which Foreign
Minister Antonio Patriota visited last week. The project is
being co-financed by Brazil’s state development bank BNDES.  Since 2006, bilateral trade rose 30 percent to $488 million
in 2010, according to the Brazilian foreign ministry. In the
first 11 months of 2011, trade reached $570 million.  While blocked from traveling abroad in the past, Sanchez
openly criticizes Castro’s government on a blog, Generation Y,
and has emerged as a leader among a group of young dissidents
who describe the daily travails life in Cuba through difficult-
to-access social media. Many of her chronicles are published by
newspapers throughout  Latin America . She has also written a
book, “Havana Real: One Woman Fights to Tell the Truth About
Cuba Today.”  Senator Eduardo Suplicy, a member of Rousseff’s Workers’
Party, said it would be “positive” for the president to meet
with Sanchez during her visit as well as discuss with the Castro
brothers the possibility of the blogger traveling to Brazil.  “She never committed any crime, she is a normal Cuban
citizen,” Suplicy, who delivered a letter by Sanchez to
Rousseff last week, said in a phone interview from Sao Paulo.
“If the Cuban government authorizes Sanchez to visit Brazil it
would be a significant gesture, a positive sign for President
 Barack Obama  to end the U.S. embargo.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Raymond Colitt in Brasilia at 
 rcolitt@bloomberg.net ;
Matthew Bristow in Brasilia at 
 mbristow5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Joshua Goodman  at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  