-- Brees Beats Rodgers to Top Power 100 Bloomberg Businessweek Sports Ranking
-- B y   V e n e s s a   W o n g
-- 2012-01-26T02:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/brees-beats-rodgers-to-top-power-100-bloomberg-businessweek-sports-ranking.html
Drew Brees  set records on the field
as the  New Orleans  Saints quarterback this year and beat all
other athletes off of it in the Power 100, a measure of
performance, popularity and marketability, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports on its website.  Brees broke  Dan Marino ’s 27-year-old National Football
League record for most passing yards in a season with 5,476.
Brees, 33, also completed a record 71.2 percent of his passes
and threw for more than 300 yards in 13 of 16 regular-season
games, the most in NFL history.  That performance and his popularity vaulted Brees to the
No. 1 spot in this year’s Power 100, a ranking of athletes in
the U.S. by CSE, a sports marketing firm in Atlanta, and Horrow
Sports Ventures that uses data from Encino, California-based
research company E-Poll Market Research.  CSE evaluated about 600 of the best-performing athletes
from a pool of 3,000 based on statistics, the popularity of
their sports, endorsement earnings and their reach on social
media. Nielsen/E-Poll N-Score data, based on surveys that
evaluate such factors as players’ name and face awareness,
appeal, influence and trustworthiness, were also included to
measure athletes’ endorsement potential.  Completing the top five were Green Bay Packers quarterback
 Aaron Rodgers  ($19 million in earnings), New England Patriots
quarterback  Tom Brady  ($28 million),  LeBron James  of
basketball’s  Miami Heat  ($61 million), and tennis’s  Rafael Nadal 
($21.7 million). Brady and  Eli Manning , the Giants quarterback
who was ranked No. 15, will meet in the Super Bowl on Feb. 5.  ‘Universal Recognition’  Brees led the Saints to a 13-3 regular-season record this
season before losing to the  San Francisco 49ers  in the playoffs.
The Brees Dream Foundation, which he founded in 2003, has
contributed more than $7 million to cancer research and care and
to rebuild schools, parks, playgrounds and athletic fields in
New Orleans,  San Diego  and Purdue,  Indiana , according to the
 foundation’s website .  The quarterback earned $16 million in salary and
endorsements in 2011, according to data from CSE. “He’s clearly
an endorsement darling now,” said Rick Horrow, president of
Horrow Sports Ventures and a contributor to Bloomberg
Television.  Brees was ranked 25th in the 2010 Power 100, then moved up
to seventh in 2011 after the Saints won the  Super Bowl .  Newcomers to the list include Novak Djokovic (who went 70-6
with three Grand Slam tennis titles) at No. 9, U.S. Open golf
champion  Rory McIlroy  at No. 21, and Los Angeles Dodgers
outfielder  Matt Kemp , who signed a contract extension worth $160
million over eight years, the largest in National League
history, at No. 32.  Manning Disappears  As Brees rose to the top, last year’s most powerful
athlete,  Peyton Manning , fell to 51st place after missing the
2011 season following neck surgery. Golfer  Phil Mickelson 
dropped to No. 18 from No. 4 after winning one PGA Tour event
last season.  Lance Armstrong , No. 8 last year, fell off the list
entirely. The pro cyclist announced his retirement in February.  “The real key is measuring how these superstars perform,”
said Horrow. In athletics, power means “earning power for
athletes, owners, agents, communities and corporate brands.”  Following is the list. The numbers following athletes names
are their previous rank. UR mean unranked last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Venessa Wong in New York at 
 vwong70@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Beucke at 
 dbeucke@bloomberg.net  