-- Bristol-Myers Misses Estimates on Costs to Sell New Drugs
-- B y   D r e w   A r m s t r o n g
-- 2012-01-26T21:25:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bristol-myers-misses-analyst-estimates-as-costs-increase-to-gain-new-drugs.html
Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  failed to
beat analysts’ fourth-quarter profit  estimates  as the company
invested in new products and sales fell for Plavix and Avapro,
top-selling pills that will face generic competition this year.  Net income  rose to $852 million, or 50 cents a share, from
$483 million, or 28 cents, a year earlier when the company
reported one-time tax charges from restructuring. Excluding
certain items, profit was 53 cents a share, 2 cents below the
average of 15 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg. Revenue
increased 7 percent to $5.45 billion, while spending on
marketing and sales grew 22 percent to $1.22 billion.  Bristol-Myers agreed this month to buy  Inhibitex Inc. (INHX)  for
$2.5 billion, gaining experimental hepatitis C drugs as it seeks
to diversify and add new products. Sales of the blood-thinner
Plavix, which generated 31 percent of the quarter’s  revenue ,
declined 3 percent to $1.67 billion, the New York-based
drugmaker said today in a statement.  “This is a new product story, and the product performance
in the quarter was quite good,” said  Barbara Ryan , an analyst
with Deutsche Bank AG in  New York , whose recommendations for the
stock over the past year provided the best returns compared with
others who cover the shares.  Bristol-Myers fell less than 1 percent to $32.48 at 4 p.m.
New York time. The  stock  has gained 25 percent in the past 12
months.  New Medicines  Plavix (PHAM1151) , Bristol-Myers’s top-selling drug, loses patent
exclusivity in May. To prepare for that day, Bristol-Myers has
since 2007 executed a strategy of mid-size partnerships and
acquisitions known as the “string of pearls.”  Bristol-Myers  forecast  2012 revenue at the bottom end of
analysts’ estimates. The company anticipates 2012 revenue from
$17.2 billion to $18.2 billion compared with the $18.3 billion
average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by Bloomberg. Full-year
earnings will be $1.90 to $2 a share, while the analysts had
estimated $1.96.  Mark Schoenebaum , an analyst with ISI Group in New York,
called the quarterly results a “small” miss by Bristol-Myers,
said.  “We expect stock to be flat to down small as many
investors had expected lukewarm 2012 guidance,” he said in a
note to clients.  Eliquis Awaits  This year, the company is awaiting U.S. approval of
Eliquis, a blood-thinner it developed with Pfizer Inc. that is
already being sold in  Europe . Yervoy, a medicine for advanced
melanoma, was cleared in March in the U.S. and generated $144
million in fourth-quarter sales.  “We will build on the momentum of 2011 as we transition
beyond the loss of exclusivity of Plavix and Avapro,” Chief
Executive Officer Lamberto Andreotti said in the statement.  Eliquis may dominate sales for stroke-preventing blood
thinners in heart patients, according to analysts for ISI Group
and Leerink Swann & Co. Leerink estimates the market for the
drugs at $7 billion to $9 billion a year.  Along with Plavix, sales of Avapro, which is used to treat
high  blood pressure  and  kidney disease  in diabetics, fell 23
percent in the fourth-quarter to $195 million. The pill is
Bristol-Myers’s fifth-ranked by sales.  Sprycel, Onglyza  Sales of Bristol-Myers’s newer  drugs  fared better. Sprycel,
a treatment for chronic myeloid leukemia, rose 34 percent from a
year earlier to $227 million. Revenue from Onglyza, a pill used
to lower blood sugar in diabetics, more than doubled to $153
million. Patents on the two drugs don’t expire until 2020 and
2021, respectively.  The company also incurred costs from the 2010 health care
overhaul law. About one-quarter of the 22 percent increase in
marketing, sales and administrative costs came from mandatory
discounts for Medicare patients and fees on pharmaceutical
companies. In total, that took 4 cents from earnings per share,
the company said.  Advertising and product promotion spending increased 5
percent to $285 million, Bristol-Myers said in the statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Drew Armstrong in Washington at 
 darmstrong17@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  