-- BTA Still Seeks Debt Talks After Restructuring Isn’t Passed
-- B y   S v e t l a n a   A n t o n c h e v a
-- 2012-01-26T11:56:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bta-still-seeks-debt-talks-after-restructuring-isn-t-passed-1-.html
Kazakh lender BTA Bank said it will
push ahead with talks to restructure its debt for the second
time in as many years even after a shareholders meeting today
failed to gain enough votes to begin the process.  The results of the meeting in Almaty are “certainly not an
impediment to achieving restructuring and the bank will continue
to take all the necessary steps,” BTA said in a statement.
Majority owner Samruk-Kazyna, the Kazakh sovereign-wealth fund,
couldn’t back any resolutions on the agenda as an insufficient
number of depositary-receipt holders voted, it said.  Samruk-Kazyna “is committed to an orderly and consensual
restructuring of the bank,” according to a separate statement
e-mailed by the fund. It “supports the establishment of a
steering committee to negotiate the terms of the restructuring
of a certain part of the bank’s financial debt.”  Samruk-Kazyna took over BTA in February 2009, two months
before the central Asian nation’s largest lender at the time
defaulted on $12 billion of debt. BTA missed a $166 million
coupon payment at the start of the month on its July 2018 dollar
bonds, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Debt Moratorium  Today’s general shareholders meeting was convened to
discuss non-payment of interest on bonds and a “moratorium on
certain payments” to BTA’s creditors, excluding depositors,
according to an earlier statement on the bank’s website.  In order for Samruk-Kazyna to support the moves, two-thirds
of the holders of BTA’s London-listed global depositary receipts
needed to vote in favor of the resolutions, BTA said today. Just
under 18 percent of the GDR holders voted, representing 2.7
percent of the lender’s common stock, it added.  Samruk-Kazyna, which has a stake of about 81.5 percent,
said it’s “disappointed that a majority of the bank’s GDR
holders have not been able to give their voting instructions.”
Still, the fund plans to participate in restructuring talks once
a steering committee is established “with a view to having the
bank emerge as a viable entity post-restructuring.”  It reiterated a pledge to exclude depositors and their
interest payments from any restructuring.  Fitch Ratings  downgraded BTA’s long-term issuer rating one
level to “restricted default” on Jan. 20, citing the bank’s
failure to pay its coupon by a Jan. 18 deadline.  BTA said Fitch’s decision was fair, calling restructuring
“a necessary step to guarantee the continued normal functioning
of the bank,” according to a statement the following day.  BTA’s Chief Executive Officer Askhat Beisenbayev warned
Jan. 17 that the lender planned to skip the coupon payment
because it has an “acute need to restore capital” and faces
the risk of a run on deposits.  The bank is making a presentation to creditors tomorrow in
 London .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Svetlana Antoncheva in Astana at 
 santoncheva1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Hellmuth Tromm at 
 htromm@bloomberg.net  