-- Bulgaria, Romania Ready for Schengen Entry, Van Rompuy Says
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   K o n s t a n t i n o v a
-- 2012-01-26T17:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/bulgaria-romania-ready-for-schengen-entry-van-rompuy-says.html
European Union President  Herman Van Rompuy  said Bulgaria and  Romania  have met the conditions to join
the  Schengen  passport-free travel zone and he will propose talks
on their accession at an EU summit in March.  The European Parliament in Strasbourg endorsed the two
Black Sea countries’ bids on June 8, 2011, while the bloc’s
 Justice and Home Affairs Ministers Council  postponed their
admission on the next day urging them to do more to overcome
crime and corruption. The two nations joined the EU in 2007.  “My position is very clear,” Rompuy told reporters after
meeting Bulgarian President Rosen Plevneliev in Brussels today.
“Since it has been confirmed by all member states that both
countries fulfill the technical Schengen criteria for accession,
the council should take his decision as soon as possible.”  Rompuy said he “is ready to put this topic on the agenda
of the March European Council again, in case no decision is
taken until then.”  The summit takes place on March 1-2 in
Brussels.  Countries hoping to join the Schengen system, named for the
Luxembourg village where the treaty allowing border-free travel
was signed in 1985, need the unanimous endorsement of existing
members, based on an assessment by the commission. The
Netherlands have delayed  Bulgaria ’s and Romania’s Schengen bid
until they do more to ensure the rule of law.  The two former Soviet-bloc countries spent 1.16 billion
euros ($1.53 billion) to beef up their border police and equip
them with patrol boats, helicopters, scanners and night-vision
cameras to ensure the security of borders with  Turkey ,  Serbia ,
Moldova and Ukraine and a stretch of the Black Sea coast.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Konstantinova in Sofia at 
 ekonstantino@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  