-- Cabot Cites Obama Speech to Fault EPA’s Dimock Fracking Probe
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m
-- 2012-01-26T23:17:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/cabot-cites-obama-speech-to-fault-epa-s-dimock-fracking-probe.html
Cabot Oil & Gas Corp . fired off a
complaint to the Environmental Protection Agency, saying a probe
of water in Dimock,  Pennsylvania , undermines President  Barack Obama ’s embrace of natural gas in his State of the Union speech.  “EPA’s actions in Dimock appear to undercut the
president’s stated commitment to this important resource,”
Chief Executive Officer Dan Dinges wrote today in a letter to
EPA Administrator  Lisa Jackson . “EPA’s approach has caused
confusion that undermines important policy goals of the  United
States  to ensure safe, reliable, secure and clean energy sources
from domestic natural gas.”  The EPA said Jan. 19 that it would deliver water to four
families in Dimock, where residents say their water has been
contaminated during hydraulic fracturing by Cabot. The EPA will
also test water at 60 homes to assess whether any residents are
being exposed to hazardous substances, the agency said.  Dinges, who also is Cabot’s chairman, said today that the
company provided more than 10,000 pages of data to the EPA and
there is “no credible evidence” that the water needs further
analysis by the federal agency.  “It appears as though the EPA’s decision is politically
motivated and not based on a legitimate desire to address
environmental concerns,” the company said in a statement issued
with Dinges’s letter.  Obama Backs Gas  For the first time in a State of the Union address, Obama
on Jan. 24 offered detailed, broad praise for the development of
natural gas, and directed his administration to ensure its
continued production.  The EPA said in a statement today that its efforts in
Dimock don’t run counter to Obama’s pledge.  “We have been clear that if we see an immediate threat to
public health, we will not hesitate to take steps under the law
to protect Americans whose health may be at risk,” the agency
said in the statement. “EPA’s samples will be collected and
reviewed using the highest scientific standards.”  “The residents in Dimock deserve answers based on the
facts,” the EPA said.  The U.S. holds an estimated 2,214 trillion cubic feet of
gas, enough to meet domestic demand for more than a century at
current consumption rates, according to the Energy Department.
Fracking accounts for a third of the U.S. gas production, up
from 14 percent in 2009.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  