-- Calderon Calls for More IMF Funds to Prevent Italy From Destabilizing Euro
-- B y   N a c h a   C a t t a n
-- 2012-01-26T23:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/calderon-calls-on-g-20-to-gather-more-funds-to-help-europe-1-.html
Mexican President Felipe Calderon
urged the Group of 20 nations to gather more funds to prevent
the European debt crisis from destroying the euro and
undermining stability elsewhere in the world.  “We have a time bomb, the bomb is in Europe and we are
working together to deactivate it before it explodes over all of
us,” Calderon said in a speech yesterday at the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.  The more money committed to a “firewall,” the less the
crisis will cost in the long run, preventing countries such as
Italy moving from the current liquidity shortage to a solvency
problem, he said.  Calderon called for more nations to raise funding for the
 International Monetary Fund . The IMF proposed last week to lift
its lending capacity by as much as $500 billion to insulate the
world against any worsening of Europe’s debt crisis. Mexican
policy makers have pushed for greater support for the fund
through its current presidency of the G-20.  “The failure of a containment strategy will mean not only
the potential implosion of the euro, but an economic crisis with
devastating consequences for the rest of the world,” Calderon
said. With insolvent nations needing “huge” support, “this is
a task for all of us in the G-20,” he said. “We need to use a
bazooka right now to protect  Italy .”  On Dec. 12, the IMF said it still lacks the necessary votes
to implement a 2010 decision to double its permanent resources
and boost the voting power of emerging markets. The U.S.
Congress is one of the legislatures that has yet to approve the
measure.  U.S. Help  “We decided to increase our participation and our
contribution to the IMF in order to strengthen that very
important international institution, and Brazil is doing exactly
the same, and  China ,” Calderon said. “I hope the  United
States , the American Congress, could decide quickly to support
the IMF.”  The international lender needs additional funds to deal
with the consequences of the European debt crisis for other
countries outside of the region,  Mexico ’s central bank Governor
Agustin Carstens told reporters in Davos yesterday.  “It’s an important effort and Mexico will be consistent
with our conviction that the fund needs to be strengthened,” he
said.  Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said Europe can
solve its debt crisis without new IMF aid that would come at the
expense of much poorer citizens in other countries.  “These are the wealthiest countries in the world, and you
can’t expect a Chinese peasant earning $200 a year to contribute
to bailing out Europe,” Flaherty said yesterday in an interview
at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, on
“Bloomberg Surveillance” with Tom Keene. “It doesn’t make any
sense.”  Investor Optimism  Not everybody in Europe said the economy is slipping into
crisis.  Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer  Robert Diamond  and
Deutsche Bank AG’s Anshu Jain said investor optimism is growing
in 2012, as the  European Central Bank  provides unlimited loans
to the region’s lenders.  “We are seeing a big change driven by somewhat more
confidence in the  U.S. economy  and, most importantly, that
Europe is on the right path,” Diamond said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television at Davos yesterday.  “We are beginning this year on a mildly better note than
the one we finished on in the fourth quarter,” Jain, who takes
over as co-CEO of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank at the end of
May, said in an interview yesterday.  Both Citigroup Inc. CEO Vikram Pandit and Christian Meissner, Bank of America Corp.’s co-head of global corporate
and investment banking, also said the mood among investors in
 Europe  has improved.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nacha Cattan in Mexico City at 
 ncattan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Joshua Goodman at 
 jgoodman19@bloomberg.net  