-- California Considers Plan to Speed Battery, Hydrogen Auto Sales
-- B y   A l a n   O h n s m a n
-- 2012-01-26T19:24:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/california-plan-may-speed-sales-of-cars-powered-by-electricity-hydrogen.html
California (STOCA1) , the state with authority
to set air-pollution rules stricter than U.S. government’s, is
considering a plan requiring carmakers to sell more than 1
million autos by 2025 that emit little or no tailpipe or carbon
exhaust.  The state’s Air Resources Board today in  Los Angeles  is
examining amendments to its zero-emission vehicle, or ZEV,
mandate that already requires the six largest carmakers to sell
battery-electric, plug-in hybrid and hydrogen fuel-cell cars.
The new phase, running from 2018 through 2025, would require
those companies and six more automakers to sell as many as 1.4
million such vehicles, or 15 percent of total sales, in the
state in 2025.  California has pushed automakers since the 1970s to sell
cleaner vehicles to reduce the state’s air pollution. Earlier
state rules led to catalytic converters and exhaust treatment
systems becoming standard on U.S. vehicles. State officials have
said they want to repeat that by pushing automakers to offer a
range of models that also emit less of the carbon dioxide
created from petroleum-based fuels.  Ten other states plan to adopt  California ’s advanced
vehicle requirements if they are implemented, including  New York 
and  New Jersey , said Roland Hwang, transportation program
director for the  Natural Resources Defense Council , an
environmental group.  That would at least double the impact of California’s
program to more than 3 million advanced vehicles being sold
nationwide, Hwang said.  “We believe that’s a very reasonable total by 2025,”
Hwang said. U.S. sales of such low-carbon autos would be only
about 3 percent of total volume, he said.  CAFE Boost  Consideration of California’s rules come as the state and
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency match regulations for
carbon exhaust and other pollutants. The Obama administration
last year announced plans to double so-called Corporate Average
Fuel Economy, or CAFE, standards to 54.5 miles per gallon by
2025, the biggest such increase in U.S. history.  California’s ZEV program and efforts to regulate carbon
exhaust triggered lawsuits from automakers and dealers through
the early 2000s. Given the new CAFE standard, automakers already
plan to boost sales of advanced vehicles that would meet both
state and federal rules, said  Gloria Bergquist , a spokeswoman
for the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, the industry’s
biggest trade group.  ‘Massive Sums’  “Automakers have invested massive sums in new types of
powertrains now on sale,” Bergquist said. “We still do not
support mandates, because mandates create a disconnect in the
marketplace.”  California’s rules only force companies to offer certain
types of vehicles, not for people to buy them, she said.
Electric cars may not sell in large numbers if there aren’t
enough public charging stations, Bergquist said.  “Once government determines that society should move to
diversify powertrains, that triggers a legitimate role, and even
an obligation, for government to invest in supporting
infrastructure, like making charging stations widely
available,” she said.  Currently,  General Motors Co. (GM) ,  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
Chrysler Group LLC,  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  Nissan Motor Co. and
Honda Motor Co. must sell a combined 60,000 plug-in, battery-
electric and fuel cell cars in the state from
this model year through 2014.  By 2018, the state’s ZEV rules will extend to  Hyundai Motor
Co. (005380) ,  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) ,  Daimler AG (DAI) ,  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ,  Bayerische
Motoren Werke AG (BMW)  and  Mazda Motor Corp. (7261)   To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Ohnsman in Los Angeles at 
 aohnsman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  