-- Cameron Says Transaction Tax Proposal ‘Madness,’ Calls for Euro-Area Fix
-- B y   T h o m a s   P e n n y   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-01-26T12:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/cameron-says-proposed-transaction-tax-is-madness-urges-euro-area-fix.html
U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron 
said it would be “madness” to introduce a Europe-wide tax on
financial transactions and called on euro-area leaders to focus
instead on an immediate fix to their debt crisis.  At a cost to economic growth of 200 billion euros ($260
billion) and 500,000 jobs, Cameron said the proposal is a
distraction given the greater problems affecting the continent.
Fixing Greece’s fiscal woes, building firewalls to halt
contagion and recapitalizing banks are the priorities, the
premier said.  “To be considering this at a time when we are struggling
to get our economies growing is quite simply madness,” Cameron
said in a speech today to the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
Switzerland.  Cameron is looking to exports and investment to boost an
economy teetering on the edge of a second recession in three
years. The  International Monetary Fund  forecast this week that
the economy of the 17-nation euro area, Britain’s largest
trading partner, will shrink 0.5 percent in 2012 as a result of
the debt crisis. Cameron suggested today that Germany and the
 European Central Bank  should do more to underpin the euro.  ‘Do Even More’  “The flip side of austerity in the deficit countries must
be action to put the weight of the surplus countries behind the
euro,” Cameron said. The ECB is already acting “and could do
even more” to alleviate the crisis.  Cameron suggested that euro leaders might follow the
proposals of IMF Managing Director  Christine Lagarde  for “a
system of fiscal integration and risk sharing, perhaps through
the creation of euro-area bonds to make that support work.”  The euro area is in a “fairly protracted recession” and
European leaders will shift their focus toward fighting rising
unemployment,  Stephen Roach , non-executive chairman of Morgan
Stanley Asia, said today.  “Grappling with the crisis is definitely understandable,
but I think the debate is going to shift to fighting recession
in  Europe ,” Roach said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television’s Maryam Nemazee in Davos. “Europe is in a recession
now, and it’s likely to be a fairly protracted one with a very
limited recovery in the years ahead.”  Talks on a debt swap to avert a Greek default resume today
as international policy makers squabble over the mounting cost
of the rescue.  Double-Dip Threat  The IMF cut its 2012 U.K. growth forecast to 0.6 percent
from 1.6 percent. Ernst & Young said the U.K. economy may
contract again the first quarter, which would produce its first
double-dip recession in more than three decades.  An online survey by Ipsos MORI in 24 countries showed 92
percent of Britons saying the economy in a bad situation,
compared with 95 percent in  France  and Italy and 96 percent in
 Spain . In  Germany  61 percent of respondents said their economy
is in a good situation. Ipsos Mori polled 21,245 people between
Jan. 6 and Jan. 19.  “Tinkering here and there and hoping we’ll drift to a
solution simply won’t cut it anymore,” Cameron said of the euro
crisis. “This is a time for boldness, not caution.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Thomas Penny in London at 
 tpenny@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in London at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  