-- Cameron Will Urge More Bilateral Trade Deals at Davos After Doha Failure
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2012-01-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/cameron-will-urge-more-bilateral-trade-deals-at-davos-after-doha-failure.html
British Prime Minister David Cameron
will call on other nations to pursue bilateral trade accords
while a “coalition of the willing” among them seeks broader
regional free-trade agreements, including a European Union deal
with the U.S.  Cameron will say in a speech at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland , today that nations need to take action to
prevent protectionism after the repeated failure to agree a deal
under the World Trade Organization’s Doha Round.  “Rather than trying to involve everyone at once, let’s get
some bilateral deals done,” Cameron will tell politicians and
business leaders at the Swiss ski resort, according to remarks
released by his office in London. “Let’s be more creative in
the way we use the multilateral system.”  Cameron is relying on overseas trade to prevent Britain
slipping into its second recession in three years as the deepest
public spending cuts, rising unemployment and record levels of
household debt weigh on growth. Figures released yesterday
showed the economy contracted by 0.2 percent in the fourth
quarter, more than the government had predicted.  Cameron will call on the EU to sign trade agreements with
 India ,  Canada  and  Singapore  by the end of the year and boost the
27-nation bloc’s output by 90 billion euros ($118 billion). He
will also urge leaders to “look at options” for an EU-U.S.
deal that would have a “bigger impact than all of the other
agreements put together.”  Without waiting for a global WTO deal, nations wanting to
spur trade should also “forge ahead with more ambitious deals
of their own,” Cameron will say. He’ll praise the Trans-Pacific
Partnership and propose progress toward a deal between the EU
and Africa.  “This is a bold agenda on trade which can deliver tangible
results this year,” Cameron will say. “I am proposing that we
start work on it immediately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in  London  at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  