-- Canada November Employment, Earnings and Hours Report (Text)
-- B y   I l a n   K o l e t
-- 2012-01-26T13:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/canada-november-employment-earnings-and-hours-report-text-.html
The following is the text of
Canada's employment, earnings, and hours report for
November released by  Statistics Canada .  In November, average weekly earnings of non-farm
payroll employees were $883.96, virtually unchanged from
the previous month. On a year-over-year basis, earnings
rose 2.2%.  Year-to-year change in average weekly hours and average
weekly earnings  The 2.2% increase in average weekly earnings during the
12 months to November reflects a number of factors, such
as wage growth and changes in the composition of
employment by industry, occupation and level of job
experience.  Average hours worked per week can also contribute to
changes in earnings. A year-over-year decline in average
hours worked per week tempered the increase in weekly
earnings. In November, average hours worked per week
amounted to 32.9, down from 33.1 hours 12 months earlier.
Compared with the previous month, average weekly hours
were down slightly (-0.3%).  Average weekly earnings by sector  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings
exceeded the national average of 2.2% in four of  Canada 's
largest industrial sectors: administrative and support
services; retail trade; professional, scientific and
technical services; and manufacturing.  Year-to-year change in average weekly earnings in the 10
largest sectors, November 2010 to November 2011  In administration and support services, average weekly
earnings rose 4.9% to $734.24. Year-over-year growth was
widespread across most industries in this sector.  In retail trade, average weekly earnings were up 3.8%
to $521.41.  In professional, scientific and technical services,
average weekly earnings increased 2.9% to $1,229.64.
Increases were particularly pronounced in management,
scientific and technical consulting; accounting, tax
preparation, bookkeeping payroll services; and
architectural, engineering and related services.  Average weekly earnings in manufacturing increased 2.5%
to $999.75, with growth spread across many industries.  Growth in earnings also surpassed the national average
in some smaller sectors. From November 2010 to November
2011, earnings increased in the two highest-paying
industries: utilities, where they increased 7.8% to
$1,705.73; and mining, quarrying, and oil and gas
extraction, where they rose 3.7% to $1,788.92.  Average weekly earnings rose in every province  Average weekly earnings rose in every province in the
12 months to November, led by growth in Newfoundland and
Labrador, Saskatchewan,  Alberta  and  New Brunswick . The
lowest rate of growth was in Ontario.  Year-over-year growth in average weekly earnings by
province, November 2010 to November 2011  In Newfoundland and Labrador, average weekly earnings
increased 5.7% to $898.95. Earnings in this province have
been higher than the national average since September
2011.  In Saskatchewan, average weekly earnings were up 5.1%
to $904.42. This province's earnings have exceeded the
national average since August 2011.  In Alberta, average weekly earnings increased 5.0% to
$1,052.53. Alberta continued to post the highest level of
earnings among the provinces.  The increase in average weekly earnings was also above
the national average in New Brunswick, up 4.6% to $803.99,
and in British Columbia, up 3.2% to $849.99.  The lowest year-over-year growth occurred in Ontario,
as average weekly earnings were up 0.5% to $898.63.  Non-farm payroll employment by sector  From October to November, non-farm payroll employment
increased 12,300. The increases were widespread, with
notable gains in retail trade; construction;
manufacturing; health care and social assistance;
wholesale trade; and mining, quarrying and oil and gas
extraction.  On a year-over-year basis, the number of employees rose
1.7% (+247,700).  The highest rates of growth were in mining, quarrying
and oil and gas extraction (+9.1%); utilities (+6.3%);
construction (+3.6%); and professional, scientific and
technical services (+3.0%).  Note to readers  The Survey of Employment, Payrolls and Hours (SEPH) is
a business census of non-farm payroll employees. Its key
objective is to provide a monthly portrait of the level of
earnings, the number of jobs and hours worked by detailed
industry at the national, provincial and territorial
level.  Statistics Canada also produces employment estimates
from its monthly Labour Force Survey (LFS). The LFS is a
household survey whose main objective is to divide the
working-age population into three mutually exclusive
groups: the employed (including the self-employed),
unemployed and not in the labour force. This survey is the
official source for the  unemployment rate  and collects
data on the socio-demographic characteristics of all those
in the labour market.  As a result of conceptual and methodological
differences, estimates of changes from SEPH and LFS do
differ from time to time. However, the trends in the data
are quite similar.  Unless otherwise stated, this release presents
seasonally adjusted data, which facilitates comparisons by
removing the effects of seasonal variations.  Non-farm payroll employment data are for all hourly and
salaried employees, as well as the "other employees"
category, which includes piece-rate and commission-only
employees.  Average weekly hours data are for hourly and salaried
employees only and exclude businesses that could not be
classified to a North American Industry Classification
System code.  All earnings data include overtime pay and exclude
businesses that could not be classified to a North
American Industry Classification System code.  Average weekly earnings are derived by dividing total
weekly earnings by the number of employees.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilan Kolet in Ottawa at 
 ikolet@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Marco Babic at   mbabic@bloomberg.net  