-- Canadian Currency Strengthens to Parity for the First Time in Three Months
-- B y   A u s t e n   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-26T22:25:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/canadian-dollar-appreciates-to-parity-for-the-first-time-since-november.html
Canada’s dollar rallied to parity
with its U.S. counterpart for the first time in almost three
months as commodities rose after the  Federal Reserve  pledged to
extend its freeze on U.S. borrowing costs.  The Canadian currency reached the strongest level since
Nov. 1 and headed for a 1.1 percent advance on the week. Crude
oil, the nation’s biggest export, reached a one-week high after
the Fed signaled yesterday it plans to keep  interest rates  at
almost zero through 2014.  “Canada’s dollar hit parity, and we’re looking for it to
continue to gain against the U.S. dollar based on the Fed,
higher oil and improving risk sentiment because of accommodative
central banks,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist
for Gain Capital Group LLC in New York.  The Canadian currency, nicknamed the loonie for the image
of the waterfowl on the C$1 coin, appreciated 0.3 percent to
C$1.0018 per  U.S. dollar  at 5 p.m. Toronto time, after touching
99.82 Canadian cents. It reached 99.75 Canadian cents on Nov. 1,
the last day it traded on a one-for-one basis with the
greenback. One Canadian dollar buys 99.82 U.S. cents.  The loonie trimmed its advance as the U.S. dollar erased
losses against the euro, commodities pared gains and North
American stocks reversed a rally after a report showed sales of
new homes in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in December for the
first time in four months. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index was
down 0.6 percent after rising 0.6 percent earlier, and the euro
was little changed at $1.3109.  ‘Psychological Level’  “Parity has been a bit of a psychological level,” said
 Shane Enright ,  executive director  at Canadian Imperial Bank of
Commerce’s CIBC World Markets unit in Toronto. “It’s always
going to get a lot of movement around here.” He added that
weakening wouldn’t be seen as significant unless the Canadian
currency depreciated past C$1.0070 per U.S. dollar.  Government bonds  advanced, pushing the benchmark  10-year
note  yield down three basis points, or 0.03 percentage point, to
2.02 percent. Thirty-year bond yields fell three basis points to
2.63 percent.  Canada will auction C$2.5 billion ($2.5 billion) of 10-year
notes on Feb. 1, according to a statement today on the central
bank’s website. The 2.75 percent securities mature in June 2022.  Raw Materials  The loonie gained for a second day as crude oil for March
delivery reached $101.39 a barrel in New York, its highest level
since Jan. 19, before closing at $99.86. The Thomson
Reuters/Jefferies  CRB Index (CRY)  of  raw materials  advanced 0.3
percent after gaining as much as 0.9 percent earlier. Canada
derives about half of its export revenue from the sale of raw
materials, including crude.  The U.S. dollar fell versus all of its 16 most-traded
counterparts tracked by Bloomberg except  Sweden ’s krona.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. recommended yesterday its clients
buy the Canadian dollar and the Mexican peso versus the U.S.
currency, saying the Fed’s pledge to keep interest rates low
reaffirms a dollar “weakening trend.”  The  Bank of Canada  may not follow the Fed in pursuing a
more “proactive” monetary policy, analysts led by  Thomas Stolper  wrote in a note. The U.S. rate has been zero to 0.25
percent since December 2008. The Canadian central bank held its
 benchmark rate  last week at 1 percent.  Canada ’s currency will rise to 95 cents per U.S. dollar,
the Goldman analysts predicted.  Forecasts Lowered  The loonie’s gains were tempered after the Fed lowered its
outlook yesterday for the economy of the U.S., Canada’s biggest
trade partner. The central bank cut its forecast for growth in
2012 to a range of 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, from a projection
of 2.5 percent to 2.9 percent in November. It predicted 2013
expansion of 2.8 percent to 3.2 percent, versus a previous
forecast of 3 percent to 3.5 percent.  Policy makers said they anticipated U.S. unemployment will
remain high and inflation “subdued.”  The Canadian dollar gained 0.1 percent over the past month
against nine developed-nation peers tracked by Bloomberg
Correlation-Weighted Currency Indexes. The Australian dollar
climbed 3.3 percent, while the dollar tumbled 1.8 percent.  Brandywine Global Investment Management’s fund manager  Jack McIntyre  said he’s exiting the Canadian bond and currency
markets because the loonie is overvalued and he sees better
opportunities in  Mexico .  McIntyre, who oversees $25 billion of debt at the unit of
Legg Mason Inc., had about 4 percent of his holdings in Canadian
dollars and bonds at the start of the year. He’s allocating
funds to Mexico instead, where he said a productive workforce is
luring foreign companies and investment.  “We’ve exited our Canadian positions as of a few trading
sessions ago,” McIntyre said in a phone interview yesterday
from Philadelphia. “Canada has gotten to be an expensive place
to live and, more importantly, do business. The Canadian dollar
is overvalued. Companies are shifting production away from
Canada to the U.S. and Mexico.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Austen Sherman in  New York  at 
 asherman18@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  