-- Flaherty Says Europe Shouldn’t Receive More IMF Cash: Tom Keene
-- B y   G r e g   Q u i n n   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-26T17:23:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/canada-s-flaherty-says-europe-shouldn-t-receive-more-imf-cash-tom-keene.html
Canadian Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  said  Europe  can solve its debt crisis without new
International Monetary Fund aid that would come at the expense
of much poorer citizens in other countries.  “These are the wealthiest countries in the world, and you
can’t expect a Chinese peasant earning $200 a year to contribute
to bailing out Europe,” Flaherty said today in a interview at
the  World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland, on “Bloomberg
Surveillance” with  Tom Keene . “It doesn’t make any sense.”  The IMF said Jan. 24 that Europe’s debt crisis threatens
the world economy and is seeking $500 billion in extra resources
for potential loan demand. Private creditors and European
officials today are negotiating an increase to the 50 percent
cut in the face value of Greek  government bonds  agreed to three
months ago, as the country’s shrinking output means that
reduction may not be enough to avert an economic collapse.  “They can do it by themselves, and we have made that clear
to them,” Flaherty said, referring to European policy makers.  “They have some good fiscal consolidation plans in place
in Spain and Italy,” he said. “They have to make sure that
they are enforced, that they actually do them, because there has
been a problem with that as you know in Europe, and then they
have to dedicate more resources.”  Flaherty reiterated the U.S. should allow TransCanada Corp.
to build the Keystone XL oil pipeline linking  Alberta ’s oil
sands to refineries along the Gulf of Mexico. President Barack
Obama blocked a permit for the project earlier this month.  “We are disappointed in that, but we hope things will
change over time,” Flaherty said, adding the project would
create “skilled jobs at a time when we are all worried about
jobs.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Greg Quinn in Ottawa  at 
 gquinn1@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Keene in New York at 
 tkeene@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  