-- Cancer Screening in U.S. Lags Behind for Asians and Hispanics
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   F a y   C o r t e z
-- 2012-01-26T17:40:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/cancer-screening-in-u-s-lags-behind-for-asians-and-hispanics-cdc-says.html
Americans aren’t getting screened
for cancer as regularly as the U.S. government would like, with
Asians and Hispanics leaving themselves most vulnerable to the
second-leading cause of death nationwide, a study found.  Colorectal cancer screening is particularly underutilized,
with 58.6 percent of the population getting one of three
recommended tests for the malignancy that  kills  more than 50,000
Americans each year, according to the report from the Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention and the  National Cancer
Institute . Less than half of Asians and Hispanics get the tests,
well below the 70.5 percent Healthy People 2020 target rate.  The results are troubling, since finding tumors early is
the best way to ensure successful treatment, said lead author
Sallyann Coleman King, an epidemiologist at the Atlanta-based
CDC. The report used the 2010 National Health Interview Survey
to determine how close the nation is to achieving the
government’s cancer-detection goals.  “Efforts should be made to improve screening rates in all
population groups,” the researchers said in a statement.  The report, published in the CDC’s  Morbidity and Mortality
Weekly Report , found 72.4 percent of women are screened for
 breast cancer , below the 81 percent goal, with only 64.1 percent
of Asians getting the mammograms recommended every other year
for women ages 50 to 74. Pap smears used to spot cervical cancer
were done every three years as recommended for 83 percent of
women, short of the 93 percent target. Three of every four
Asians and 83.8 percent of Hispanics were screened for cervical
cancer, the study found.  More than 577,000 people in the U.S. will die of cancer in
2012, according to the  American Cancer Society , making it the
second-leading cause of death behind  heart disease .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Fay Cortez in Minneapolis at 
 mcortez@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net  