-- Carlyle Curbing Shareholder Rights Irritates Lawmakers Who See Precedent
-- B y   M i l e s   W e i s s
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/carlyle-lawsuit-ban-deplored-by-lawmakers-may-entice-followers.html
Carlyle Group (CG)  LP’s plan to protect
itself from class-action lawsuits may set a precedent that
undermines shareholder rights and encourages more companies to
follow suit, lawyers, investors and government officials said.  The buyout firm this month amended a regulatory filing to
require future shareholders to resolve claims against it through
arbitration. The U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, which
blocked an initial public offering with a less-restrictive
arbitration clause more than 20 years ago, must decide whether
to allow Washington-based Carlyle’s offering to proceed.  Preventing the share sale could lead to a showdown between
the agency and the Supreme Court, which has issued a series of
pro-arbitration decisions in recent years. Allowing the IPO
would rile congressional Democrats and pave the way for other
buyout firms, hedge-fund managers and traditional corporations
to go public with similar restrictions.  “The SEC should reject this effort to circumvent
shareholder rights because it will be an extraordinary and
enduring precedent,” U.S. Senator  Richard Blumenthal , a
Democrat from Connecticut who serves on the judiciary committee,
said in telephone interview. “It will open the door to
arbitration clauses in all IPOs, and thereby eviscerate
shareholder rights.”  Florence Harmon, a spokeswoman for the SEC in Washington,
declined to comment, as did  Chris Ullman , a Carlyle spokesman.  Arbitrations differ from court proceedings in several ways:
they are generally confidential, permit less discovery by
plaintiffs and have fewer avenues for appeal.  Previous IPO Blocked  The SEC has held that companies can’t go public with a
clause in their governing documents that limits the ability of
shareholders to seek remedies under federal securities law. The
agency blocked a stock sale more than two decades ago by a
Philadelphia-based savings and loan that had also included a
mandatory-arbitration provision in its corporate charter,
according to Carl Schneider, a former securities attorney who
represented the thrift.  Mary Schapiro , chairman of the SEC,
served as one of the agency’s five commissioners at the time.  Since then, securities class-action suits have become a big
industry in the U.S., with 3,415 filings in federal court
between Jan. 1, 1996, and the end of 2011, according to San
Francisco-based Cornerstone Research. Settlements totaled $52.7
billion from 2001 and 2010, Cornerstone estimates, including
$6.2 billion in the case of WorldCom Inc.  Lynn Turner, the SEC’s chief accountant from July 1998 to
August 2001, said he sees “no reason” for the SEC to change
its earlier position, given the agency’s mandate to protect
investors. Allowing companies to bar shareholder class actions
would remove a “significant process” by which corporate
executives are held accountable, Turner said.  ‘Enforcement Mechanism’  “The majority of the enforcement of the U.S. securities
laws is not done by the SEC but by attorneys for investors,”
Turner said in a telephone interview. “This Carlyle proposal
destroys that enforcement mechanism, much to the detriment of
100 million Americans.”  The  U.S. Supreme Court (1000L)  has been moving in the other
direction since Republican appointee John Roberts became chief
justice in 2005, issuing a series of decisions that promote
arbitration as the preferred method for resolving disputes. On
Jan. 10, the day Carlyle amended its IPO filing to disclose the
lawsuit ban, the court made a pro-arbitration ruling in a case
involving CompuCredit Corp. that could also apply to federal
securities laws, according to Cyril Moscow, a professor at the
University of Michigan Law School in Ann Arbor.  Supreme Court  The U.S.  Supreme Court  held in the late 1980s that
brokerages could require arbitration of customer disputes. The
justices have never ruled on whether public companies can extend
the concept to shareholders, said Stephen Bainbridge, a
corporate and securities law professor at the UCLA School of Law
in  Los Angeles . That could change should Carlyle meet opposition
from the SEC and respond by suing the agency, Bainbridge said.  The high court would be “almost certain” to strike down
SEC policy if Carlyle were to push the issue, Bainbridge said.
“Carlyle is admittedly taking an extremely aggressive position,
but it’s a position I believe is fully consistent” with U.S.
and  Delaware  law, he said.  Carlyle’s structure as a limited partnership, rather than a
corporation, is critical to the legality of its arbitration
provision, Bainbridge said. That’s because Delaware, the state
in which most companies are incorporated, gives partnerships
more leeway than corporations to restrict their fiduciary duties
to shareholders.  Potential Trend  Many closely held firms that manage hedge and buyout funds
are also structured as limited partnerships, meaning they too
could go public with mandatory-arbitration clauses if Carlyle
succeeds, Bainbridge said. Technology and industrial firms that
are set up as corporations might consider converting into
limited partnerships, weighing the huge tax liabilities they
would incur, the UCLA professor said.  “If Carlyle can get away with this, you are going to have
a bunch of CEOs telling their tax accountants, ‘Price out what
it would cost me’” to convert from a corporation to a
partnership, Bainbridge said in a telephone interview.  Carlyle has built political connections by employing high-
ranking former government officials on its advisory boards. The
list includes ex-President  George H.W. Bush  and former Defense
and Treasury secretaries Frank Carlucci and  James Baker . David Rubenstein, before co-founding Carlyle, served as deputy
domestic policy adviser to former President  Jimmy Carter .  Blackstone Suits  Having debated whether to go public since 2007, Carlyle
filed for an IPO in September amid a weak market for stocks
issued by other private-equity firms, including  Blackstone Group
LP (BX)  and KKR & Co.  Blackstone was named in six 2008 lawsuits that were later
consolidated into a class-action complaint alleging that the
prospectus for the company’s IPO was false and misleading, in
part because it overstated the value of the firm’s private-
equity and real estate investments. The plaintiffs seek damages
and costs, as well as other relief, Blackstone said in its
latest quarterly report, adding that the case is “totally
without merit” and that the firm intends to “vigorously”
defend itself. Blackstone shares trade at about half the
company’s June 2007 IPO price of $31 each.  Carlyle revised its filing Jan. 10, in part to say that
future shareholders who seek damages under U.S. securities laws
would have to resolve the claims through arbitration. The same
provision would bar Carlyle shareholders from filing individual
and class-action suits.  ‘Perceptual Risk’  “You give up your rights immediately under this
construct,” said U.S. Representative Gary Ackerman, a Democrat
from  New York . “It should not be allowed to happen,” said
Ackerman, a senior member of the House Financial Services
Committee, which shares oversight responsibility for the SEC.  Arbitration “clearly” takes away certain rights from
investors,  Arthur Levitt , who served as SEC chairman under
former President  Bill Clinton  from 1993 to 2001, said in a Jan.
19 interview on Bloomberg Radio’s “Bloomberg Surveillance.”
That could diminish the public appetite for Carlyle stock,
Levitt added in a telephone interview. Levitt is a Bloomberg LP
board member.  “Companies that consider going down this road take a
perceptual risk which, in terms of an IPO, is probably not a
risk worth taking,” said Levitt, a senior adviser to Carlyle
since 2001.  The Council of Institutional Investors, a Washington-based
association of pension funds, endowments and foundations with
combined assets exceeding $3 trillion, has been developing a
policy to oppose corporations that limit shareholder rights by
mandating legal claims be filed in Delaware, according to
Gregory Smith, a board member.  Shareholder Council  Carlyle’s move would probably receive scrutiny from the
institutional shareholder group, Smith said in a telephone
interview.  “This reflects a company and management team that fears
accountability to the very people” that will own the
organization, said Smith, who is also general counsel for the
Public Employees’ Retirement Association of Colorado, which
manages about $40 billion in pension funds. “You have to ask
what they are hiding or what are they preparing to hide?”  Joseph Dear, the investor council’s chairman, is also the
chief investment officer of the California Public Employees’
Retirement System, the largest U.S. public pension fund with
$229 billion in assets. As part of a larger agreement to invest
in Carlyle funds, Calpers paid $175 million in 2001 to acquire
what was then a 5.5 percent stake in the private-equity firm,
according to people familiar with the situation at the time.  Calpers’ Policy  The fund is restricted from commenting on the arbitration
issue at Carlyle, said  Brad Pacheco , a spokesman for Calpers.
Calpers, an advocate for corporate governance and shareholder
rights, has a policy for monitoring securities litigation and
determining when it should pursue “a lead plaintiff role,”
according to the pension fund’s website.  Mandatory arbitration, by eliminating the threat posed by
class-action suits, could encourage more private domestic and
foreign companies to sell stock in the U.S., according to a
November 2006 report by the independent Committee on Capital
Markets Regulation prepared for  Henry Paulson , the U.S. Treasury
Secretary at the time.  The amounts paid out to small investors in class actions
are often so minimal, after lawyers fees are deducted, that they
don’t bother to collect the awards,  Hal Scott , a Harvard law
professor and the committee’s director, said in an interview.  Shareholders would benefit from the reduced threat that
companies they have invested in would get stuck with large legal
bills, said William Chandler, an attorney in the Georgetown,
Delaware, office of law firm  Wilson Sonsini Goodrich (1173L)  & Rosati.  Litigation Costs  “To the extent you can reduce the costs of litigation,
that benefits all shareholders,” said Chandler, who previously
served as chief judge for the Chancery Court of Delaware. “Not
just the ones” who sue, Chandler said.  Spiraling class-action costs prompted a pair of investors
at  Gannett Co. (GCI)  and  Pfizer Inc. (PFE)  to propose that each of the
companies require shareholders to resolve disputes involving $3
million or less through arbitration rather than in court.
Gannett, the McLean, Virginia-based publisher of USA Today, and
Pfizer, the New York drug manufacturer, are seeking permission
from the SEC to forgo holding votes on the arbitration proposals
at their annual shareholder meetings this year.  “Although sympathetic to the principal concerns espoused”
by the shareholder proposal, Gannett believes “the
implementation of the proposal would cause it to violate the
federal securities laws,” its law firm,  Hogan Lovells , wrote in
a Dec. 27 letter to the SEC. “Rather than having the company’s
proxy statement serve as a test case for investor sentiment on
the issue, the appropriate course of action is for the issue to
be debated and decided by Congress,” or by the SEC through its
rule-making process, the firm wrote.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Miles Weiss in  Washington  at 
 mweiss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  