-- Caterpillar Sees Growth Through 2012 as Profit Beats Estimates
-- B y   S h r u t i   D a t e   S i n g h
-- 2012-01-26T21:12:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/caterpillar-earnings-forecast-beat-estimates-on-increased-mining-demand.html
Caterpillar Inc. (CAT)  posted fourth-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates and said Wall
Street projections for this year were too conservative, lifting
the stock market and bolstering expectations the world economy
will escape a recession.  Shares of Peoria, Illinois-based Caterpillar jumped as much
as 4.5 percent, leading today’s gain in the  Dow Jones Industrial
Average , after the company said net income climbed 60 percent in
the quarter. Caterpillar said the global economy will grow 3.3
percent in 2012, up from 2.8 percent last year.  Caterpillar, the world’s biggest maker of construction and
mining-equipment, surpassed analysts’ estimates for the 11th
time in the last 12 quarters. Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  has spent about $11 billion to buy companies
including Bucyrus International Inc. to exploit a boom in the
 mining industry  after prices advanced for commodities including
gold, copper and coal.  “Caterpillar is absolutely an industrial bellwether,
especially in terms of infrastructure and capital goods,” Larry De Maria, a New York-based analyst for William Blair & Co. who
has an “outperform” rating on the shares, said in an
interview. “The signal is that there is a lot of uncertainty
but there is a bit more stability than a couple of months ago.”  Caterpillar climbed 2.1 percent to $111.31 in  New York . The
shares rose 20 percent this month before today.  U.S. Recovery  The company will see more orders as pent-up demand is
released and customers replace older products, Chief Financial
Officer Ed Rapp said. With corporate balance sheets now in
“pretty good shape,” companies such as Caterpillar are more
willing to invest in product development, additional capacity
and making acquisitions, he said.  “Some of those factors that are impacting our business,
our view of where things are, are going to play out in other
industries as well,” Rapp said in an interview, citing
automakers as an example.  Prospects for the world economy in the year ahead have
improved over the past quarter, with the start of a recovery in
U.S. construction spending, Caterpillar said. The U.S., which
made up 32 percent of Caterpillar’s 2010 revenue, will grow by
at least 3 percent this year, the company forecast.  U.S. construction spending  has risen 5.8 percent through
November from March, when it reached the lowest level since
October 1999, according to U.S. Census Bureau data. U.S.
earthmoving-machinery volumes will increase as much as 12
percent in 2012, Robert McCarthy, a Chicago-based analyst for
Robert W. Baird & Co., said in a report on Jan. 19.  Chinese Sales  Sales of construction machinery are expected to improve in
developed countries in 2012, the company said. Machinery sales
in the euro region will be at or above 2011 levels despite the
sovereign debt crisis, it said. Monetary easing will lead to a
“modest recovery” in Chinese sales, the company said.  Capital spending  at “major” mining companies is expected
to climb 25 percent this year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg Industries.  Fourth-quarter net income rose to $1.55 billion, or $2.32 a
share, from $968 million, or $1.47, a year earlier, the company
said in a statement. The average of 21 analysts’ estimates
compiled by Bloomberg was $1.73 a share. The highest prediction
was $1.87.  A tax benefit also helped Caterpillar beat estimates, said
 Stephen Volkmann , an analyst at Jefferies & Co. in New York.  Record Backlog  Profit in 2012 will be about $9.25 a share, Caterpillar
said. That’s above the average estimate of $9.10 and within the
$8 to $10 range for 2012 that the company set as a target three
years ago. Oberhelman reiterated the target when he became CEO
in 2010. Sales in 2012 are forecast at $68 billion to $72
billion. Revenue was $60.1 billion in 2011.  Sales in 2012 will be constrained by production capacity,
Caterpillar said. It had a record $29.8 billion backlog of
orders at the year-end.  Caterpillar doesn’t have any “big holes” to fill when it
comes to acquisitions, Oberhelman said on a conference call. The
company acquired Bucyrus in July for $8.8 billion including
debt, adding shovels and drills to its product range. It also
agreed in November to buy Hong Kong-based ERA Mining Machinery
Ltd. for as much as HK$6.89 billion ($890 million).  Rapp said on the call he anticipates Caterpillar spending
“a lot of time” in 2012 integrating those businesses.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shruti Date Singh in  Chicago  at 
 ssingh28@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Simon Casey at   scasey4@bloomberg.net . 