-- CEZ May Seek Investor for $10 Billion Temelin Reactor Project
-- B y   L a d k a   B a u e r o v a
-- 2012-01-26T13:41:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/cez-may-seek-investor-for-10-billion-temelin-reactor-project.html
CEZ AS (CEZ) , the largest power producer
in central and eastern Europe, will consider bringing in an
investment partner to help finance a $10 billion project to
build two reactors at the Temelin nuclear power station.  “It’s one of the options we are actually assessing,”
Martin Novak, the chief financial officer of CEZ, said yesterday
in an interview in his  Prague  office. “We are definitely
looking at models of how nuclear plants are built today in
Europe. We are looking at forms of sharing the risk.”  The Prague-based utility is in the process of choosing a
supplier to build two reactors in Temelin from Westinghouse
Electric Corp.,  France ’s  Areva (AREVA)  SA, and a Russian-Czech
consortium led by Rosatom Corp.’s unit Atomstroyexport. The
winner of the tender will be picked by the end of next year and
construction should start no later than 2016, Novak said.  The reactors are intended to replace CEZ’s aged coal-fired
plants, reduce carbon dioxide emissions and solidify the  Czech
Republic ’s position as a regional power exporter. CEZ increased
sales to  Germany  last year after  Chancellor Angela Merkel 
ordered the shutdown of some of the country’s oldest reactors
following the Fukushima disaster in  Japan .  The shares rose as much as 1.9 percent and were up 1.2
percent to 760 koruna at 1:58 p.m. in Prague, rebounding from a
three-day slump.  While CEZ is capable of financing the construction of
Temelin units 3 and 4 on its own through a combination of cash
flow and debt, inviting another investor remains an option
because it would leave the Czech utility a freer hand to invest
in other projects, according to the executive.  Set Aside Cash  “Companies might prefer diversification of their
portfolios, so they better do such projects with somebody,”
Novak said. “They set aside cash for good acquisition
opportunities such as when distressed companies are selling
assets.”  Cash flow  remains the main source for financing the Temelin
project, he said. CEZ, whose current  debt-to-earnings ratio  is
about 1.8, plans to raise cash on the  bond market  and bring the
debt level up to 2.3 later in the decade to fund the
construction, he said.  The debt level will initially drop between now and 2016 as
the company’s spending on conventional power plants at Tusimice,
Ledvice and Pocerady eases off and the plants begin to generate
cash, Novak said.  “We are already the least indebted power utility in
Europe, and after we go through our capex program by 2016 we’ll
have a much lower debt,” Novak said. “If you want to enter
such a lengthy project that doesn’t generate any cash flow until
it’s fully commissioned, you need to be in perfect shape before
you start.”  Retain Rating  The company’s aim is to retain its A debt rating and pay
out dividends while building the Temelin reactors. CEZ is also
examining forms of potential government support such as feed-in
tariffs for nuclear energy that would reduce  investment risk  and
create conditions for stable income from the new reactors, he
said.  “We are looking at models that are being used in  Europe 
and the U.S. for such projects,” Novak said. “There are many
options. We are just at the beginning, there is no one single
way to go.”  CEZ is also carrying out a feasibility study to build
another reactor at its Dukovany nuclear plant, though not before
completing Temelin, the director said. The company has also
commissioned a feasibility study for additional reactors at the
Slovak nuclear plant Jaslovske Bohunice through a joint venture
with Slovak state nuclear company Javys.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladka Bauerova in Paris at 
 lbauerova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Will Kennedy  at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  