-- Chinese Vitamin C Makers Can Be Sued by Buyers as a Group, U.S. Judge Says
-- B y   T h o m   W e i d l i c h
-- 2012-01-26T18:15:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/chinese-vitamin-c-makers-can-be-sued-by-buyers-as-a-group-u-s-judge-says.html
North China Pharmaceutical Co. (600812)  and
three other Chinese makers of vitamin C can be sued in the U.S.
for alleged price-fixing by buyers acting as a group, a federal
judge ruled.  U.S. District Judge Brian M. Cogan in  Brooklyn ,  New York ,
today certified a class of vitamin C buyers. The buyers are
seeking triple damages.  “Individual class members are unlikely to have sufficient
resources -- let alone fluency with federal antitrust law -- to
institute a lawsuit such as this,” Cogan wrote.  The defendants, including Aland (Jiangsu) Nutraceutical
Co., Northeast Pharmaceutical Co. and Weisheng Pharmaceutical
Co., captured more than 60 percent of the worldwide market for
vitamin C by 2001, Cogan said in a September ruling.  China ’s
share of vitamin C imports to the U.S. climbed to more than 80
percent in 2002 from 60 percent in 1997, he wrote.  Cogan appointed Ranis Co., a food company in Elizabeth,  New
Jersey , to represent the group seeking damages.  The judge also certified a group of buyers asking the court
to force the Chinese companies to stop their alleged antitrust
violations. He appointed  Animal Science Products Inc. , a
Nacogdoches, Texas-based maker of animal-feed additives, to
represent that group.  Chinese Law  In September, Cogan denied the Chinese companies’ request
to rule in their favor in the case without a trial. The vitamin
makers argued that the Chinese government forced them to fix
prices, Cogan said. “The Chinese law relied upon by defendants
did not compel their illegal conduct,” he wrote.  William A. Isaacson, a lawyer for the plaintiffs at Boies,
Schiller & Flexner LLP, didn’t immediately return a call for
comment on Cogan’s ruling. In a September phone interview, he
said the class actions were filed by buyers of vitamin C who
distribute it or make it into products.  North China’s unit in the case is Hebei Welcome
Pharmaceutical. Charles Critchlow, a lawyer for Hebei Welcome at
Baker & McKenzie LLP in New York, declined to comment on Cogan’s
ruling.  Richard Goldstein, a lawyer for Aland (Jiangsu) at Orrick,
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP in New York; James Serota, a lawyer
for  Northeast Pharmaceutical (000597)  at Greenberg Traurig LLP in New
York; and Daniel Mason, a lawyer for Weisheng Pharmaceutical at
Zelle Hofmann Voelbel & Mason LLP in  San Francisco , didn’t
immediately return calls for comment on the decision.  The case is In re Vitamin C Antitrust Litigation, 06-
md-1738, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of New York
(Brooklyn).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Thom Weidlich in New York at 
 tweidlich@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  