-- Cigarette Ad Ruling Won’t Await Appeals Court, Judge Says
-- B y   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-26T21:54:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/cigarette-ad-ruling-won-t-await-appeals-court-judge-says-1-.html
A ruling on what cigarette makers
must say in advertising about the dangers of smoking won’t await
an appeals court decision in a related case, a federal judge
said.  U.S. District Judge Gladys Kessler in  Washington , who in
2006 found that  tobacco companies  violated the law by conspiring
to hide the dangers of cigarettes, said today the public
shouldn’t have to wait “one or more years” for a ruling in a
separate case involving Food and Drug Administration rules.  Kessler is considering the proposed so-called corrective
statements that tobacco companies may be forced by the
government to put in advertisements. They include health
warnings and confessions of past wrongdoing.  She said the statements are “necessary to prevent and
restrain” tobacco companies from “making fraudulent public
statements” on the health effects of smoking.  “The mere fact that First Amendment issues are being
raised in both cases does not provide sufficient justification
to delay the corrective action statements issue,” Kessler said
in her ruling.  The defendants include Altria Group Inc.’s Philip Morris
USA unit, Reynolds American Inc.’s  R.J. Reynolds (RAI)  Tobacco Co. and
 Lorillard (LO)  Inc.’s Lorillard Tobacco.  Steve Callahan, an Altria spokesman, declined to comment on
Kessler’s ruling.  Appeals Case  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  in Washington is reviewing a
decision by another judge, who ruled in November that ordering
tobacco companies, including Lorillard and R.J. Reynolds, to
display images of diseased lungs and a cadaver with chest
staples on an autopsy table may “unconstitutionally compelled
speech.”  U.S. District Judge Richard Leon postponed the Sept. 22,
2012, deadline for the regulations to take effect while he
reviews the constitutionality of the FDA rule.  Lorillard, R.J. Reynolds, Commonwealth Brands Inc., Liggett
Group LLC and Santa Fe Natural Tobacco Co. Inc. sued the FDA in
August, claiming its mandates for cigarette packages, cartons
and advertising violate the First Amendment.  The case is U.S. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., 99-cv-02496,
U.S. District Court,  District of Columbia  (Washington).  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 