-- Citigroup Forecasts Drop in Long-Bond Yields to 2.1%: Technical Analysis
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-01-26T21:24:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/citigroup-forecasts-drop-in-long-bond-yields-to-2-1-technical-analysis.html
Treasury 30-year bond yields may
fall below 2 percent as the  Federal Reserve  is more likely to
extend the average maturity of its  holdings  than to buy more
securities, according to Citigroup Global Markets.  A technical indicator known as a  double top  in a chart of
long-bond yields indicates a decrease to as low as 1.8 percent
with a drop “at least” to 2.1 percent,  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief
technical analyst at the Citigroup Inc. unit in New York, wrote
today in a research note with his colleagues Shyam Devani and
Jim Zhou.  “It is far from clear at this point that the dynamics of
the  U.S. economy  require” Fed balance-sheet expansion, the
analysts wrote. “That is why we believe it is much more likely
that the next Fed move is a balance-sheet ‘extension’ rather
than ‘expansion’ to drive the last part of the curve into
negative real yields.”  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped six basis points, or 0.06
percentage point, to 3.09 percent at 3:42 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. Yields fell to a
record low 2.51 percent in December 2008.  The difference in yields between 30-year Treasuries and
inflation-indexed debt, a measure of the outlook for consumer
prices known as the  break-even  rate, fell to 2.30 percentage
points after touching 2.38 percentage points, the biggest spread
since Oct. 28.  Bernanke’s View  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the central
bank is considering additional asset purchases to boost growth
after extending its pledge to keep  interest rates  low through at
least late 2014.  The Fed said yesterday it would continue to extend the
average maturity of its $2.6 trillion securities portfolio, a
move dubbed “Operation Twist.” The central bank also maintained
its policy of reinvesting maturing housing debt into agency
mortgage-backed securities.  Buying more securities to boost economic growth risks
driving up commodity prices, which may undermine the stimulus,
Fitzpatrick said in a telephone interview.  “I still suspect that that will be a last-ditch measure
and honestly believe it would be the wrong thing to do,” he
said. “The negative kickback can be fairly instantaneous.”  In  technical analysis , investors and analysts study charts
of trading patterns to forecast changes in a security,
commodity, currency or index. A double top occurs when a
security makes two consecutive peaks of about the same depth,
indicating it may drop.  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  