-- CME Clearing Aims to Compete in Europe as Trading Volume Expands, CEO Says
-- B y   N a n d i n i   S u k u m a r
-- 2012-01-26T13:57:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/cme-clearing-aims-to-spur-competetion-in-europe-as-volume-grows-ceo-says.html
CME Group Inc. (CME) ’s European
clearinghouse this month processed more than half the volume of
last year’s trades, as it steps up competition in the region.  CME Clearing Europe , which started on May 6 last year, has
cleared 5,621 contracts so far in January, compared with 9,447
processed in 2011, Andrew Lamb, chief executive officer of the
unit, said in an interview. The London-based clearinghouse de-
registered with the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission in
December, making the U.K.’s Financial Services Authority its
sole regulator, Lamb said.  “We can compete on equal terms here,” Lamb said.
“There’s very considerable interest from clients in having a
clearing arrangement that’s rooted in U.K. law. We want to
present ourselves as a clearinghouse based in the U.K.,
operating under  English law , obviously overseen by Brussels.”  CME Group, the world’s largest futures exchange, controls
98 percent of U.S. futures trading, with about 20 percent of
business coming during non-U.S. trading hours. The Chicago-based
company employs 170 people in London, including trading
operations. It said last May that it expects the European
clearinghouse, which processes over-the-counter derivatives, to
break even within 12 to 18 months.  ‘Future in Europe’  “London is a major office, the future is in  Europe ,”
Felix Carabello, CME Group’s managing director of International
Strategic Sales, said in an interview. “We want to be part of
the community, it’s not an outpost.”  Competition in derivatives and clearing is under intense
scrutiny in Europe, where antitrust regulators are next week
likely to recommend against  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s takeover of
 NYSE Euronext (NYX)  because they are concerned the deal will leave one
dominant operator in those areas.  The merger would create the world’s largest exchange and
place more than 90 percent of the European exchange-traded
 derivatives market  in the hands of one company. Eurex, owned by
the Frankfurt-based company, is the region’s biggest derivatives
venue, while NYSE Euronext’s Liffe is second largest.  The European Commission, as part of its decision making,
asked whether CME Group could become “a significant player” in
trading or clearing European derivatives, according to survey
with more than 165 questions obtained by Bloomberg News.  Client Demand  A clearinghouse reduces the potential harm from a member
firm’s default by acting as the buyer to every seller and the
seller to every buyer. Most futures-exchange operators,
including  Deutsche Boerse , CME and ICE, own their own
clearinghouse and don’t permit similar contracts traded on
competing venues to be processed with their own.  “Would we invest in a new exchange based in Europe?” Lamb
said. “Yes, but based on tangible client demand.”  NYSE has argued that its greatest competitor in derivatives
is CME Group, not Deutsche Boerse. It cited an 89 percent
membership overlap between CME and Liffe and rivalry in trading
Euribor and Eurodollar futures. CME last year offered Euribor
futures and options on its electronic trading platform, pitting
itself directly against Liffe, which dominates the market for
co-called short-term interest rate products.  Global Volume  Globally, Eurex and Liffe accounted for 39 percent of
volume traded in the 10 most active exchange-listed interest
rate derivatives contracts in the first half of last year,
compared with 44 percent for CME Group, according to data from
the Washington-based Futures Industry Association. Liffe’s
Euribor futures were the fourth-most-popular contract, behind
CME’s Eurodollar futures, CBOT’s 10-year Treasury note and a
contract from  Brazil ’s BM&FBovespa SA.  Derivatives clearing in Europe is dominated by LCH.Clearnet
Ltd., owner of the world’s largest interest-rate-swap
clearinghouse, and  IntercontinentalExchange Inc. (ICE) , which
processes trades in European-based credit-default swaps and
energy commodities such as Brent oil futures.  CME Clearing Europe plans to offer interest-rate swaps and
more commodities this year, Lamb said. While the business
currently only clears over-the-counter derivatives, it could
expand to exchange-traded derivatives if clients demand it, he
said.  “It would be easy for us to supply competitive products
provided there’s appetite for it,” Lamb said, noting that CME
already has a license from the FSA.  In December, NYSE and Deutsche Boerse offered remedies to
European regulators that included easing access to their
clearinghouse for rivals, two people familiar with the situation
said at the time.  “The issue in clearing, as in trading, is the head start
and critical mass,” Lamb said. “It’s always difficult to see
how a newcomer can gain traction. But users aren’t comfortable
with only one clearinghouse, and with mandatory clearing coming
along there needs to be a massive expansion of capacity.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nandini Sukumar in  London  at 
 nsukumar@bloomberg.net  or @NandiniSukumar on Twitter  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  