-- College Freshmen Are More Liberal on Gay Marriage, Abortion
-- B y   A n d r e w   T h e e n
-- 2012-01-26T16:26:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/college-freshmen-are-more-liberal-on-gay-marriage-abortion.html
First-year college students are more
socially liberal than their predecessors on issues such as same-
sex marriage and public education for undocumented students,
according to an annual survey released today.  More than 71 percent of respondents who were freshmen in
2011 indicated same-sex couples should be able to marry, up from
64.9 percent two years earlier, according to the survey by the
 Higher Education Research Institute  at the University of
 California ,  Los Angeles .  The  survey , which began measuring student opinions and
concerns in 1966, also found more students supporting abortion
rights, with almost 61 percent saying abortion should be legal.
Forty-three percent opposed denying undocumented students access
to public higher education, down from 47.2 percent two years
earlier.  “A lot of the focus right now is on the Republican debates
where you don’t necessarily see these particular viewpoints
being part of the candidates platforms,” John Pryor, the
report’s lead author, said in a phone interview. Candidates
should go on college campuses more, where students have a
“different picture” of the issues, he said.  More students discussed college-course content outside
their classes and spent more time in high school studying and
taking Advanced Placement courses. Fewer reported drinking
alcohol in high-school than in 2010.  Scholarships Drop  With increasing tuition costs and U.S. student-loan debt
approaching $1 trillion and surpassing credit card debt, funding
college is growing more difficult for students every year, Pryor
said. Fewer scholarships are available and for less money,
according to the report.  “Fewer of them are reporting that they received grants or
scholarships,” Pryor said.  Students reporting $10,000 or more in scholarships dropped
to 26.8 percent, down more than two percentage points from last
year.  The survey responses came from 203,967 first-year, full-
time students at 270 colleges across the country. The results
were statistically adjusted to reflect the responses of the 1.5
million first-time, full-time students entering four-year
colleges as freshmen in 2011.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Theen in New York at 
 atheen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Lisa Wolfson at 
 lwolfson@bloomberg.net  