-- Comic Killers, Tech-Crazy Hockney, China Fiesta: London Weekend
-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 2012-01-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/comic-killers-make-music-tech-crazy-hockney-china-fiesta-london-weekend.html
A gang of conmen posing as a string
quintet are breaking box-office records at the Gielgud Theatre.  In “The Ladykillers,” they rent a room from a little old
lady who admires their musicality and loves to serve tea in her
finest  China . She seems an easy, gullible accomplice. If only.  That conventional plot is brought spectacularly to life in
 Sean Foley ’s staging -- with a spinning set, moving props, and a
toy car and train that recreate the burglary as if in a police
mock-up.  Marcia Warren is delightful as widowed Mrs. Wilberforce.  The Gielgud Theatre, 35-37 Shaftesbury Avenue, W1D 6AR.
Information:  http://www.delfontmackintosh.co.uk  or
+44-844-482-5136.  Sergei Polunin, the Royal Ballet principal who quit 
suddenly this week, features in a Sadler's Wells show dedicated
to male dancers: “Ivan Putrov -- Men in Motion.”   Friday through Sunday:  http://www.sadlerswells.com .  Saturday  David Hockney  is as tech-crazed at the age of 74 as a
teenager in a gadget store.  The shiny landscapes he draws on his tablet PC are
standouts in an exhibition of his recent work. Beamed on wall-
mounted IPads, or blown up into six-foot-high (1.8 meters)
prints, they proclaim his insatiable appetite for life, nature,
and the new.  Hockney also has a multi-video-screen grid that shows one
single scene shot with each camera pointing in a slightly
different direction. It’s like the human eye, which captures
views from multiple angles, instead of all in one go.  Among the many paintings on show, there are a few letdowns.
Yet Hockney, like Monet, still manages to take you wherever he
plants his easel. You’re there, in the leafy woods, with him.  For a sense of how he works, watch the 2009 documentary “A
Bigger Picture,” in which he also offers kernels of wisdom.  At the  Royal Academy  of Arts. Information:
 http://www.royalacademy.org.uk  or +44-844-209-0051.  Sketch is offering a gourmet three-course Champagne lunch
together with a ticket for the Hockney show (from Tuesday to
Saturday) for 48 pounds ($74.80). Information:
 http://bit.ly/wpSNX6  or +44-20-7659-4500.  Saturday Night  Bruce Hornsby  is in  London  to show audiences how he is much
more than the man behind “That’s the Way It Is.” The piano-led
hit is the best-known sample of his Grammy-winning music, which
spans jazz, blues, Motown and rock.  Not many people know that Hornsby was once a member of the
Grateful Dead and has been working with the Noisemakers for his
recent albums. He will be solo for the Jan. 28 show and
demonstrating his multi-instrument range, playing accordion as
well as keyboards.  O2 Shepherd’s Bush Empire, Shepherd’s Bush Green, W12 8TT.
Information:  http://www.o2shepherdsbushempire.co.uk  and
 http://www.brucehornsby.com/tour/   Sunday  Tens of thousands of people will crowd in and around
Trafalgar Square for the Chinese New Year celebrations on
Sunday.  At noon, Mayor  Boris Johnson  and Chinatown’s president will
stand on the main Trafalgar Square stage to perform the
“Dotting of the Eye” ceremony -- where the dragon and lion
come alive to get the show started.  Five-and-a-half hours of music, dance, stunts and
acrobatics will follow, with a fireworks display at 5:40 p.m.  Information:  http://www.london.gov.uk/event -
meeting/2012/jan/chinese-new-year-2012.  Good luck finding somewhere to eat at random around
Chinatown, where streets are sure to be crowded. If you like
spicy Chinese food, book at Bar Shu, which serves authentic
Sichuan cuisine and is popular with visitors from China.
Information:  http://www.bar-shu.co.uk/  or +44-20-7287-8822.  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri in London  at
 farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 