-- BofA, Commerzbank, S&P, Adelphia, Greenlight in Court News
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   A m o n
-- 2012-01-26T13:12:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/commerzbank-s-p-novartis-greenlight-concordia-in-court-news.html
Bank of America Corp.  is impeding an
investigation of its loan modification practices by negotiating
settlements with borrowers who must agree to keep them secret
and not criticize the bank in exchange for cash payments and
loan relief, Arizona officials say.  The Arizona Attorney General’s office is asking a court to
block those aspects of the settlements and require the bank to
turn over all the agreements. The bank denies any wrongdoing.  One 2011 accord involving a borrower facing foreclosure who
defaulted on a $253,142 mortgage included a $5,000 payment, plus
$7,500 for legal fees, and the defaulted payments were waived
and the loan was modified to a 40-year term with a 2 percent
interest rate, court documents show. The terms of the original
loan and the borrower’s complaint about the lender weren’t
described in the documents.  The borrower “will remove and delete any online statements
regarding this dispute, including, without limitation, postings
on Facebook, Twitter and similar websites,” and not make any
statements “that defame, disparage or in any way criticize”
the bank’s reputation, practices or conduct, according to
documents filed in state court in Phoenix. The borrower’s name
and address were redacted.  Bank of America attorneys argue that borrowers don’t have
to sign the agreements to get a loan modification and deny that
settlements hinder the state’s probe. Borrowers can be
subpoenaed to disclose the accords, and the Charlotte, North
Carolina-based bank won’t enforce the non-disparagement
provision if they talk to investigators, the bank’s lawyers have
said in court filings.  A hearing is set for Feb. 1 on the dispute.  Arizona Attorney General Thomas Horne, a Republican who
took office last January, is investigating Bank of America as
part of a 2010 lawsuit alleging customers of its Countrywide
Financial mortgage unit were misled about requirements for loan
modifications. The bank, which acquired Calabasas, California-
based Countrywide in 2008, provided inaccurate and deceptive
reasons for denying modification applications, according to the
the complaint. A similar suit was filed by Nevada.  Patricia Lee Refo, a Bank of America attorney, said in
court filings that the confidentiality provisions are common in
settlement agreements, which the bank uses on a “limited”
basis to resolve disputes and avoid a costly lawsuit. There’s no
policy to ask borrowers to sign settlement agreements in
exchange for loan modifications, David Thornton, senior vice
president for social media and urgent customer relations, said
in a filing.  The case is Arizona v. Countrywide Financial Corp.
CV2010-033580, Arizona Superior Court, Maricopa County
(Phoenix).  For more, click here.  Trials/Appeals  Commerzbank ‘Broke Promise’ Over $518 Million Bonus Pool  Commerzbank AG (CBK)  broke a pledge by its Dresdner Bank unit to
pay bonuses from a guaranteed pot of 400 million euros ($518
million), lawyers for a group of bankers suing the German lender
said yesterday.  “This case boils down to people keeping their promises and
not saying one thing and doing another,” attorney Andrew
Hochhauser said in London court yesterday, the first day of the
trial over the dispute.  More than 100 bankers sued Germany’s second-biggest lender
in the U.K., claiming they were guaranteed a bonus pool in 2008
by Stefan Jentzsch, then Dresdner chief executive officer.
Commerzbank completed a takeover of the bank in January 2009 and
slashed bonuses by 90 percent or more, according to court papers
from the former Dresdner bankers.  Hochhauser said Commerzbank executives, including Chief
Executive Officer  Martin Blessing , knew a commitment had been
made and “moved the goalposts.” Both Blessing and Jentzsch
will appear as witnesses at the trial.  Commerzbank, based in Frankfurt, said record losses at
Dresdner in 2008 justified the decision to reduce bonuses. The
lender has faced other lawsuits in London, Germany and Singapore
from workers who said they weren’t paid what they were due after
the 2009 takeover.  Commerzbank said in an e-mailed statement it planned to
“mount a vigorous defense” to all the claims made against it.  The bankers’ cases include Mr. Fahmi Anar & Others v.
Dresdner Kleinwort Limited,  Commerzbank AG (CBK) , High Court of
Justice, Queen’s Bench Division, HQ09X05230 and Richard Attrill
& 71 others v. Dresdner Kleinwort Limited, Commerzbank AG,
HQ09X04007  Stanford Invented Offshore Bank’s U.K. Insurer, Prosecutor Says  R. Allen Stanford failed to tell a financial adviser he
hired for his first offshore bank that the insurer he selected
for the institution was a company he created, a federal
prosecutor told a jury.  Assistant U.S. Attorney William Stellmach made that claim
yesterday while questioning the adviser, Michelle Chambliess, on
the first day of testimony at the federal courthouse in Houston,
where Stanford is on trial charged with investment fraud.  Chambliess said she was one of Stanford’s first hires in
1987, at Guardian International Investment Services, a U.S.-
based sibling of Stanford’s Montserrat-based Guardian
International Bank Ltd. Guardian was the precursor to Stanford
International Bank Ltd., the Antiguan entity at the heart of
Stanford’s alleged $7 billion fraud.  Stanford told her he’d obtained insurance for the bank from
a carrier called British Insurance Fund Ltd., which appeared to
be an independent U.K.-based company.  “Did he ever tell you it was a shell company he had set
up?” Stellmach asked.  “No,” Chambliess replied.  “Would that have made any difference to you?” he asked.  “Absolutely,” she said. “Then there wouldn’t be
insurance.”  The Guardian bank later moved to Antigua, where it was
renamed. Stanford is charged with  wire fraud  and mail fraud,
crimes that carry maximum sentences of 20 years in prison, as
well as obstruction of an SEC investigation. U.S. District Judge
David Hittner has said the trial may last about six weeks.  Stanford, 61, told the jury Jan. 24 he isn’t guilty.
Yesterday, wearing a double-breasted navy suit and a light blue
shirt, he occasionally pursed his lips and shook his head as he
watched his ex-employees testify against him.  The case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of Texas (Houston).  For more, click here.  For the latest trial and appeals news, click here.  New Suits  Illinois’s Lisa Madigan Sues  Standard & Poor’s  Over Ratings  Illinois Attorney General Lisa Madigan sued Standard &
Poor’s, accusing the company of a “fraudulent role’” in
assigning improperly high ratings to mortgage-backed securities.  The complaint against the unit of the McGraw Hill Cos. was
filed yesterday in Cook County Circuit Court, alleging the
ratings service put profit first, while purporting to provide
independent, objective analyses, Madigan said in a statement.  “S&P ignored the increasing risks posed by mortgage-backed
securities, instead giving the investment pools ratings that
were favorable to its investment bank client base,” Madigan
said.  In one 2007 online exchange among S&P workers, Madigan
contends, an employee said an investment “could be structured
by cows and we would rate it,” according to the statement.  “The case is without merit and we will defend ourselves
vigorously, David Wargin, a spokesman for Standard & Poor’s,
said in a phone interview.  The case is Illinois v. The McGraw-Hill Cos. and Standard &
Poor’s, 12CH02535, Circuit Court of Cook County, Illinois,
County Department, Chancery Division (Chicago).  For the latest new suits news, click here. For copies of recent
civil complaints, click here.  Lawsuits/Pretrial  Adelphia’s Rigases Tax Case Should Be Dismissed, Prosecutors Say  A six-year-old tax indictment of  Adelphia Communications
Corp. (ADELQ)  founder John Rigas and his son Timothy, who are already in
prison for  securities fraud , should be dismissed, U.S.
prosecutors told a federal judge.  John Rigas, 86, is serving a 12-year prison term, and his
son Timothy, 55, is serving 17 years after being convicted in
2004 of looting Adelphia and lying about its finances. The
company was once the fifth-largest U.S. cable TV provider.  They were subsequently indicted in 2005 in federal court in
Pennsylvania on charges that that they conspired to dodge taxes
-- and evaded them -- on $1.9 billion they stole from the cable
company. The Rigases have sought since then to gain dismissal of
the tax indictment.  ‘‘This case never should have been brought,” said Rigas
attorney Lawrence McMichael. “We’re pleased that the government
decided to drop it.”  On Jan. 18, U.S. District Judge John E. Jones III dismissed
the conspiracy count on instructions from a federal appeals
court to review the charge, leaving eight counts of tax evasion.
Prosecutors yesterday asked him to dismiss the remaining counts.  In light of the judge’s Jan. 18 ruling, Smith and the tax
division of the Justice Department re-examined the case,
according to the motion. Prosecutors decided to drop their
prosecution while the Internal Revenue Service pursues a civil
administrative case, the government said.  The Rigases entered a federal prison in August 2007. John
Rigas is projected for release on Jan. 23, 2018, and his son
will likely go free on June 23, 2022. They were convicted in
federal court in  New York  of securities fraud and bank fraud, as
well as conspiring to commit securities fraud, bank fraud,
falsify books and records and make false statements to the
Securities and Exchange Commission.  The Pennsylvania case is U.S. v. Rigas, 05-cr-402, U.S.
District Court, Middle District of Pennsylvania (Williamsport).  For more, click here.  SEC Says Rakoff Erred on ‘Public Interest’ Test for Accords  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission lawyers said U.S.
District Judge Jed Rakoff erred in determining that courts must
find its proposed settlements with companies to be “in the
public interest” to win approval.  Courts must only find the accords to be “fair, adequate
and reasonable,” SEC attorney Andrea Wood told a federal judge
in Wisconsin in a filing defending the agency’s proposed
settlement with Milwaukee-based  Koss Corp. (KOSS) , a manufacturer of
stereo headphones sued for allegedly making materially
inaccurate financial statements for fiscal years 2005 through
2009.  In November, Rakoff in Manhattan rejected  Citigroup Inc. (C) ’s
$285 million settlement with the SEC over claims the bank misled
investors in collateralized debt obligations. He had criticized
the SEC’s practice of letting financial institutions such as New
York-based Citigroup settle without admitting or denying
liability, and said in his Citigroup ruling that in cases that
touch on the transparency of financial markets,  “there is an
overriding public interest in knowing the truth.”  “The commission respectfully submits that the district
court in SEC v. Citigroup Global Mkt. erred in adding the
requirement that a reviewing court also find such judgments to
be in the public interest,” Wood said in a filing yesterday.
“Nonetheless, in this case, the proposed consent judgments are
in the public interest, as well as being fair, adequate and
reasonable and therefore satisfy the Citigroup standard.”  In the proposed Koss settlement, Koss and its chief
executive officer didn’t admit or deny the SEC’s claims.  U.S. District Judge Rudolph T. Randa in Milwaukee had
questioned the adequacy of the SEC-Koss settlement’s provision
that the company promise not to violate securities laws in the
future. He said the agreement is vague and could pose problems
for enforcing it.  The case is SEC v. Koss, 11-991, U.S. District Court,
Eastern District of Wisconsin (Milwaukee).  For more, click here.  Accused Inside Traders Kuo, Newman Released on Bond in N.Y.  Danny Kuo and  Todd Newman , two of seven men accused of
taking part in a “criminal club” of hedge fund traders and
analysts who swapped illegal secrets involving  Dell Inc. (DELL) , were
allowed to remain free on bond.  Both Kuo, a former fund manager at Whittier Trust Co., and
Newman, a former portfolio manager at Diamondback Capital
Management LLC, were arrested on Jan. 18 by agents of the
Federal Bureau of Investigation. Kuo, who was arrested at his
home in San Marino, California, and Newman were ordered to
appear in Manhattan federal court yesterday to face the charges.  U.S. Magistrate Judge Michael Dolinger agreed to release
Newman on $3 million bond secured by $750,000 in cash. He also
ordered Newman to surrender his travel documents and limit his
travel to parts of New York, as well as to Massachusetts, Rhode
Island and Connecticut.  “My client has been aware of the investigation for more
than a year, and in addition, there were reports in December
that he would be charged and nothing happened,” his lawyer,
Alfred Pavlis, told Dolinger. “His actions show that he intends
to appear in court and respond to the charges.”  Dolinger directed that Kuo be released on $300,000 bond and
surrender his Taiwanese and U.S. passports.  Citing Kuo’s ties to Taiwan, Assistant U.S. Attorney  David
Leibowitz  said the U.S. wanted more stringent restrictions
placed on his movements, and those of his wife and child. The
prosecutor also said Kuo had lost his job and stopped going to
school, further loosening his links to the U.S.  Newman and Kuo are each charged with conspiracy to commit
securities fraud and securities fraud. They face as long as 25
years in prison if found guilty, prosecutors said.  Newman, Kuo and their co-defendants reaped almost $62
million from insider trades in the personal-computer maker, U.S.
Attorney Preet Bharara said last week. The tipping scheme
included one trade that earned a $53 million illegal windfall
for Level Global Investors LP co-founder Anthony Chiasson and
his fund, prosecutors said. Chiasson also has been arrested and
charged.  The case is U.S. v. Newman, 12-00124, U.S. District Court,
Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  Kim Dotcom’s Megaupload Co-Accused Granted Bail in N.Z. Court  Two men accused alongside Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom
of the biggest copyright infringement in U.S. history were
granted bail in a New Zealand court because they were unlikely
to flee the country.  The risk of Bram van der Kolk and Finn Batato trying to
escape from New Zealand was low and both were of good character,
North Shore District Judge David McNaughton wrote in separate
rulings released by e-mail yesterday. A bail hearing for the
fourth man arrested in New Zealand on Jan. 20 was adjourned
until today, according to a court spokesman.  Dotcom and his colleagues are sought in the U.S. where they
were indicted on charges that the file-sharing website was part
of a $175 million copyright infringement conspiracy with pirated
film and music files being exchanged. He was arrested at his
leased New Zealand mansion on Jan. 20, and the U.S. has 45 days
from that date to file a formal extradition request.  “I am mindful of the scale of the offending described in
the indictment and that this is the biggest case of its kind
prosecuted in the United States,” McNaughton wrote. “It is
safe to assume that substantial terms of imprisonment would be
imposed.”  Van der Kolk and Batato were remanded in custody for a week
while their homes were assessed for electronic monitoring,
according to stuff.co.nz.  Batato is a German citizen who lives in Munich and was only
in New Zealand to attend Dotcom’s 38th birthday party, according
to his bail ruling. He has no criminal convictions and, like
Dotcom and van der Kolk, denies any part of the alleged
conspiracy.  Dotcom was yesterday denied bail as flight risk remained a
“real and significant possibility.” He had access to 23
separate bank accounts in Hong Kong that held more than NZ$26
million ($21.3 million), according to his ruling. The FBI said
his earnings for 2010 were $42 million and he had NZ$10 million
in New Zealand government bonds.  The U.S. indicted Dotcom because some of Megaupload’s
servers were based in that country. Other servers were based in
Canada and the Netherlands, according to the ruling.  For more, click here and here.  For the latest lawsuits news, click here.  Verdicts/Settlements  Novartis Will Pay $99 Million to Settle Overtime Lawsuit  A unit of  Novartis AG (NOVN) , the Swiss drugmaker, won a judge’s
preliminary approval of a $99 million settlement in a lawsuit
brought by sales representatives who claimed they were denied
overtime pay, court records show.  The class-action settlement, tentatively approved Jan. 24
by U.S. District Judge Paul Crotty in Manhattan, covers more
than 7,000 current and former sales representatives, according
to a statement by the company and lawyers for the workers.
Crotty will hold a final approval hearing on May 31.  “We believe this settlement is in the best interest of our
employees and the company,” Andre Wyss, president of Novartis
Pharmaceuticals Corp., said in the statement. “We have been
litigating this case for nearly six years and the company has
determined that it is time to resolve these wage and hours
claims.”  The settlement resolves wage-and-hour claims brought in
2006, as well as those filed more recently, according to the
statement. Novartis, the No. 2 Swiss drugmaker behind  Roche
Holding AG (ROG) , is “confident that sales representatives should
continue to be exempt from overtime,” Wyss said.  Workers settled before the U.S.  Supreme Court  decides
whether drugmakers must pay overtime to as many as 90,000 sales
representatives. The high court will review a lower court’s
conclusion that salespeople for a  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK)  unit
aren’t covered by a federal wage-and-hour law. Similar cases are
pending against  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) ,  Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. (BMY)  and
a unit of Merck & Co. Arguments haven’t been scheduled.  While lawyers for the Novartis workers are confident the
Supreme Court will rule favorably, “the risks of litigation are
great,”  David Sanford , the lead lawyer for the plaintiffs, said
in the statement.  “It is a fair and equitable result and can serve as an
exemplar for companies around the U.S. that face wage-and-hour
litigation,” said Sanford, of Sanford Wittels & Heisler LLP.  The case is In re Novartis Wage and Hour Litigation, 06-
md-01794, U.S. District Court, Southern District of New York
(Manhattan).  Einhorn, Greenlight Fined $11 Million in U.K. for Punch Sale  David Einhorn  and Greenlight Capital Inc. were fined 7.2
million pounds ($11.2 million) by the U.K.’s financial regulator
for trading on inside information in Punch Taverns Plc in 2009.  Einhorn, Greenlight’s 43-year-old chairman, was told of
Punch Taverns’ plan to sell equity by a broker representing the
company, the  Financial Services Authority  said in an e-mailed
statement yesterday. He then sold more than 11 million Punch
Taverns shares over the following four days, avoiding losses of
about 5.8 million pounds for the fund, the regulator said.  Greenlight said the market abuse was “inadvertent” and
the regulator agreed it wasn’t deliberate or reckless. The fine
won’t come out of Greenlight funds, the New York-based firm said
in a statement.  “We believe that this action is unjust and inconsistent
with the law and with prior FSA enforcement,” Einhorn said in
the Greenlight statement. “However, rather than continue an
arduous fight, we have decided to put this matter behind us.”  “Einhorn is an experienced professional with a high
profile in the industry,” said Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s
acting enforcement chief. “We expect someone in his position to
be able to identify inside information when he receives it and
to act appropriately. His failure to do so is a serious
breach.”  Einhorn heard in a June 2009 telephone conference call that
Punch Taverns was about to sell additional equity, the FSA said.
Einhorn gave instructions to Greenlight to sell Punch shares “a
matter of minutes” after the call ended, according to the
regulator. The hedge fund reduced its holdings in Punch shares
from 13.3 percent of its outstanding shares to 8.9 percent over
the next four days.  For more, click here.  Ex-HealthSouth Chief Scrushy’s Prison Term Cut to 70 Months  HealthSouth Corp. (HLS)  founder Richard Scrushy may be freed this
year after being resentenced to 70 months in prison for making a
campaign contribution to Alabama’s former governor in exchange
for a seat on a state hospital board.  U.S. District Judge Mark Fuller resentenced Scrushy, 59,
yesterday in Montgomery, Alabama, his lawyer, Arthur Leach,
said. His original prison term was six years and 10 months.
Before yesterday, Scrushy’s projected release date was June
2013, according to the  U.S. Bureau of Prisons .  “This basically is getting him home 12 months early,”
Leach said yesterday in a phone interview. “It allows him to
get on with his life, find a job and support his family.”  An appeals court in May overturned two honest-services
convictions and upheld two others after the U.S. Supreme Court
narrowed the scope of a law making it a crime to deprive
citizens and shareholders of the honest services of public and
corporate officers.  Scrushy was assigned to a federal prison in Beaumont,
Texas, after a jury convicted him in 2006 of giving former
Alabama Governor Don Siegelman a $500,000 campaign contribution
in exchange for a seat on a hospital regulatory board. He was
acquitted in 2005 of charges of directing an accounting fraud at
his health-care company.  He will probably go to a halfway house within the next 30
days, Leach said. From there he will spend six months in home
confinement under the supervision of the Bureau of Prisons
before being eligible for supervised release, the lawyer said.  The case is U.S. v. Scrushy, 05-cr-119, U.S. District
Court, Middle District of Alabama (Montgomery).  For the latest verdict and settlement news, click here.  Litigation Departments  Knox Trial Lawyer Said to Lead Italy Concordia Class-Action Suit  Giulia Bongiorno, the lawyer who helped overturn the murder
conviction of Amanda Knox’s former boyfriend  Raffaele Sollecito ,
will lead a class-action suit against  Carnival Corp. (CCL) ’s Italian
unit over the sinking of the Costa Concordia, a person familiar
with the case said.  Bongiorno, 45, who’s also a member of Italy’s parliament,
agreed to lead the case on behalf of about 30 passengers from
the cruise ship that ran aground off the Italian coast on Jan.
13, killing at least 16, the person said. The suit may be filed
in Grosseto, Italy, the person said. The criminal investigation
into the sinking and the actions of the ship’s captain are being
handled in Grosseto.  The Concordia struck rocks near Giglio, Italy, after
Captain Francesco Schettino deviated from the planned route and
steered close to the island, court documents show. The accident
happened hours after the vessel left a port near Rome for a
Mediterranean cruise carrying about 4,200 passengers and crew.
Twenty-two people are still missing, though that number includes
six of the dead who haven’t yet been identified.  Bongiorno was the lawyer who led the appeal case that
overturned Sollecito’s conviction for the 2007 murder of British
student Meredith Kercher in Perugia, Italy. Knox’s conviction
was also overturned in October.  Bongiorno was also part of the legal team that successfully
defended former Prime Minister Giulio Andreotti in a trial for
association with the Mafia.  Baer Said Under Review to Become New U.S. Antitrust Chief  William Baer, whose law firm championed  AT&T Inc. (T) ’s failed
bid to acquire  T-Mobile USA (DTE)  Inc., is the top candidate to head
the U.S. Justice Department’s antitrust division, two people
familiar with the situation said.  Baer, 61, who leads the antitrust group at  Arnold & Porter
LLP  in  Washington , is the subject of a background investigation
for the job by the Federal Bureau of Investigation, said the
people, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the process
is confidential.  The White House is vetting Baer for the post after Sharis
Pozen, acting chief of the Justice Department’s antitrust
division, said Jan. 23 she will leave her position on April 30.  Baer and Gina Talamona, a Justice Department spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the potential nomination in separate e-
mails.  Baer, who was named one of the “Decade’s Most Influential
Lawyers” by the National Law Journal in 2010, is a former
director of the U.S. Federal Trade Commission’s Bureau of
Competition and has represented corporate clients including
 General Electric Co. (GE) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and  Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO)  in
private practice.  The Justice Department and FTC share responsibility for
enforcing antitrust laws.  Jones Day Boosts Dallas Office With Three Ex-SNR Denton Partners  Jones Day (1113L)  hired ex-U.S. Attorney Matthew D. Orwig and two
other litigators, Basheer Y. Ghorayeb and Shawn Cleveland, all
formerly of SNR Denton US LLP in Dallas.  The moves will help Jones Day strengthen its litigation
team, the firm said Dec. 24 in a statement. All three will work
as partners out of the firm’s Dallas office, adding to the more
than 200 lawyers Jones Day employs in Houston and Dallas.  “Matt, Shawn and Basheer bring us formidable litigation
capabilities in white collar, securities, patent and other trial
and appellate areas, both here in Texas and firmwide,” said Pat Villareal, partner-in-charge of Jones Day’s Dallas office, in a
statement.  Orwig, 53, was a U.S. attorney for the Eastern District of
Texas, based in Tyler, from 2001 to 2007. He was the managing
partner of SNR Denton’s Dallas office.  Ghorayeb, 35, was a member of Denton’s litigation and
arbitration practice. Cleveland, 40, who also served on that
team, helped represent Kenneth Lay, the late former chairman of
Enron Corp., in the civil and criminal cases that followed the
company’s collapse.  For the latest litigation department news, click here.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Amon in New York at 
 eamon2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  