-- Soybean Prices Rise as Commodities Rally on Rate Outlook; Corn Pares Gains
-- B y   J e f f   W i l s o n
-- 2012-01-26T20:54:14Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/corn-soybeans-rise-as-commodities-gain-on-interest-rate-economy-outlook.html
Soybeans rose to a two-week high on
speculation that commodity demand will increase as low  interest
rates  bolster prospects for economies. Corn pared gains as U.S.
farmers increased sales.  The Standard & Poor’s  GSCI Spot (SPGSCI)  Index of 24  raw materials 
climbed as much as 1.5 percent, while the dollar fell to a six-
week low against a basket of six currencies. Yesterday, the
 Federal Reserve  said its benchmark rate probably will stay close
to zero percent at least until late 2014. Brazil’s central bank
said that there is a “high” chance its key rate will decline.  “There is a tailwind behind the commodity markets because
of the central banks’ efforts to boost economic growth,”  Jim Gerlach , the president of A/C Trading Co. in Fowler,  Indiana ,
said in a telephone interview. “The dollar’s drop is attracting
new speculative investment.”  Soybean futures for March delivery rose 0.8 percent to
close at $12.2275 a bushel at 1:15 p.m. on the Chicago Board of
Trade. Earlier, the price reached $12.31, the highest for a
most-active contract since Jan. 11.  Corn futures for March delivery were unchanged at $6.345 a
bushel. Farmers boosted sales from inventories after the grain
climbed as much as 1.8 percent to a two-week high of $6.4575.  Earlier this month, growers withheld grain as prices
tumbled after the government said last year’s harvest topped
estimates and stockpiles were larger than forecast, Greg Grow,
the director of agribusiness at Archer Financial Services Inc.
in  Chicago , said in a telephone interview.  The price gained 6.9 percent in the previous five sessions
on speculation that dry weather will reduce South American
yields, increasing demand for U.S. supplies.  The U.S. was the world’s largest exporter of both
commodities in the year that ended Sept. 30, according to
government estimates. Corn is the biggest U.S. crop, valued at
$66.7 billion in 2010, followed by soybeans at $38.9 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Jeff Wilson  in Chicago at 
 jwilson29@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Stroth at 
 sstroth@bloomberg.net  