-- Credit Suisse Senior Bankers’ Compensation Said to Drop by 30%
-- B y   A m b e r e e n   C h o u d h u r y ,   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   Z i j i n g   W u
-- 2012-01-26T16:21:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/credit-suisse-senior-investment-bankers-compensation-said-to-drop-by-30-.html
Credit Suisse Group AG , the second-
biggest bank in  Switzerland , told senior investment bankers that
compensation for 2011 will be 30 percent lower on average than
the previous year, four people briefed on the discussions said.  For some bankers, including a number in  Asia , total pay
will only drop by about 20 percent, said one of the people who
declined to be identified because they weren’t authorized to
speak publicly.  Securities firms are curbing remuneration for investment
bankers as the European sovereign debt crisis erodes revenue
from dealmaking, and greater regulation limits the profitability
of fixed-income trading.  Morgan Stanley  is also cutting pay for
senior investment bankers and traders by about 20 percent to 30
percent.  Jack Grone, a spokesman for Credit Suisse in  New York ,
declined to comment on the compensation briefings.  The Zurich-based bank also plans to pay a portion of senior
employees’ 2011 bonuses in bonds backed by derivatives,
repeating a move in 2008 that helped the firm dispose of risky
assets while preserving the value for staff, according to a memo
obtained by Bloomberg News on Jan. 23.  “We are trying to strike the right balance and align
employees with shareholders,” Chief Executive Officer  Brady
Dougan , 52, said in the memo.  Credit Suisse created the derivative-bond bonuses, which
employees will receive as well as cash bonuses and restricted
stock. In 2008, during the depths of the U.S. financial crisis,
the lender gave employees shares in a $5.05 billion pool of
junk-grade corporate loans and bonds backed by commercial
mortgages.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ambereen Choudhury in London at 
 achoudhury@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans@bloomberg.net  