-- Credit Swaps Fall to Lowest Since August on Federal Reserve Rate Outlook
-- B y   S r i d h a r   N a t a r a j a n   a n d   N a m i t h a   J a g a d e e s h
-- 2012-01-26T22:10:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/credit-default-swaps-drop-to-lowest-since-august-on-fed-outlook.html
Benchmark gauges of corporate credit
risk in the U.S. and  Europe  fell to the lowest in more than five
months as the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep borrowing costs
low through 2014 bolstered demand for company debt.  The Markit CDX North America Investment Grade Index, a
credit-default swaps benchmark that investors use to hedge
against losses or to speculate on creditworthiness, dropped 1
basis point to a mid-price of 100.9 basis points at 4:44 p.m. in
New York, the lowest since Aug. 3, according to Markit Group
Ltd. In  London , the Markit iTraxx Europe Index fell 6.5 basis
points to 143.2, the lowest since Aug. 17.  The indexes fell as the Fed said its  target interest rate ,
which the central bank has held at almost zero since December
2008, will stay low until at least late 2014. Fed Chairman  Ben
S. Bernanke  also said it’s considering additional asset
purchases to boost growth, fueling investor confidence that the
Fed will continue with monetary policy that has pushed U.S.
corporate bond yields to within 25 basis points of a record low.  “Everyone just needed the assurance the Fed would continue
with this policy,” Guy LeBas, chief fixed-income strategist at
Janney Montgomery Scott LLC, said in an interview. “The Fed has
done 96 percent of what they could have done, and this
announcement just conforms with their policy.”  Swaps tied to European financial companies dropped a second
day, with the Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the
subordinated debt of 25 banks and insurers in the region
declining 25 basis points to 370 basis points, according to
JPMorgan Chase & Co. prices.  European Financials  The index tied to senior financial company bonds fell 14 to
213, the lowest since Oct. 28.  Credit swaps pay the buyer face value if a borrower fails
to meet its obligations, less the value of the defaulted debt. A
basis point equals $1,000 annually on a contract protecting $10
million of debt. The contracts typically fall as investor
confidence improves and rise as it deteriorates.  Contracts on the senior debt of French bank  BNP Paribas (BNP)  SA
fell the most in a month, dropping 20 to 195 basis points,
according to data provider CMA. The swaps are down from 369
basis points on Nov. 25.  Swaps on Barclays Plc fell 18.4 to 151.5, according to CMA,
which is owned by CME Group Inc. and compiles prices quoted by
dealers in the privately negotiated market.  “It’s a super January and our cautious stance has been
proved to be wrong,” said  Suki Mann , a strategist at Societe
Generale SA in London.  CDX Drop Pared  The Markit CDX index in the U.S. breached the 100 basis
points mark for the first time in almost six months. The drop
was pared after the Commerce Department announced an unexpected
decline in new home sales, pushing the CDX up from its intra-day
low of 98.8 basis points, Markit prices show.  Average yields on U.S. investment-grade corporate bonds
have fallen to 3.69 percent from 4.15 percent on Oct. 11,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch index data. Yields
reached 3.45 percent Aug. 4, the lowest since at least 1984, the
index data show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sridhar Natarajan in  New York  at 
 snatarajan15@bloomberg.net ;
Namitha Jagadeesh in London at 
 njagadeesh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alan Goldstein at 
 agoldstein5@bloomberg.net  