-- Croatia Proposes Budget Cuts to Curb Deficit, Bolster Ratings
-- B y   J a s m i n a   K u z m a n o v i c
-- 2012-01-26T09:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/croatia-proposes-budget-cuts-to-curb-deficit-bolster-ratings.html
Croatia’s government  proposed budget
cuts to curb a growing deficit and bolster the country’s credit
ratings as it forecast the stagnating economy will recover this
year.  The new Cabinet of Prime Minister  Zoran Milanovic  and
Finance Minister Slavko Linic proposed to cut spending by 4.6
billion kuna ($795 million), according to a proposal given to
reporters today in Zagreb. The economy is seen growing 0.8
percent this year, 1.5 percent in 2013 and 2.5 percent in 2014.  Croatia, which will probably become the European Union’s
28th member in 2013, is facing a review of its  credit rating  as
it needs to service a growing external debt and fill the budget
gap, forecast to widen this year to 7 percent of gross domestic
product. Central bank governor Zeljko Rohatinski said in
December the country may slide into recession again this year,
after staging a modest recovery in 2011.  Michele Napolitano, associate director at  Fitch Ratings ,
said earlier this week that  Croatia  needs to carry out fiscal
consolidation and implement reforms in order to reap the
benefits of EU accession and boost its growth potential.  Croatia’s credit rating was lowered a year ago to BBB-, one
step above junk, at  Standard & Poor’s , which cited a
“deteriorated fiscal position and continuously weak” external
financing.  Fitch Review  Fitch Ratings  said on Dec. 5 it will review its assessment
in the first quarter in 2012, by which time it expects to have
more information regarding the government’s fiscal and economic
program.  Croatians on Dec. 4 ousted the government of former Prime
Minister  Jadranka Kosor . Zoran Milanovic, whose Cabinet took
office a month ago, promised to curb the budget deficit and trim
the country’s welfare system and public sector. The government
may also raise the value-added  tax rate  to 25 percent from 23
percent to boost revenue.  “Instead of raising taxes and decreasing personal
consumption, the government needs to seriously cut expenditures
and step up privatization,” said Zeljko Lovrincevic, researcher
at the Zagreb School of Economics.  “To generate growth, it also needs to reform bloated state
companies that have up to 25,000 excess employees,” Lovrincevic
said yesterday in an interview.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmina Kuzmanovic in Zagreb at 
 jkuzmanovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  