-- Oil Rises as Fed Commits to Low Interest Rates, Durable Goods Orders Gain
-- B y   M a r k   S h e n k
-- 2012-01-26T21:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/crude-oil-advances-as-fed-commits-to-low-rates-durable-goods-orders-gain.html
Oil rose after the  Federal Reserve 
announced it plans to keep U.S.  interest rates  near a record low
through 2014 and a report showed durable goods orders in the
world’s biggest crude-consuming country increased.  Futures advanced 0.3 percent as Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that policy makers are considering more
bond purchases to boost growth after extending the pledge to
maintain interest rates.  Bookings (DGNOCHNG)  for goods meant to last at
least three years climbed 3 percent in December, data from the
Commerce Department showed today.  “Between Bernanke and the durable goods orders, people are
starting to feel a little bullish about the economy,” said
 Michael Lynch , president of Strategic Energy & Economic Research
in Winchester,  Massachusetts . “The durable goods number points
to increasing economic growth and fuel demand.”  Crude oil for March delivery increased 30 cents to $99.70 a
barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , the highest
settlement price since Jan. 19. Prices are up 14 percent in the
past year.  Brent oil for March settlement rose 98 cents, or 0.9
percent, to end the session at $110.79 a barrel on the London-
based ICE Futures Europe exchange.  The  Federal Open Market Committee  had previously said the
benchmark rate would stay low through mid-2013. Fed officials
also lowered their projections for economic expansion and
inflation for this year and next.  Libyan Recovery  Prices retreated from the day’s highs after equities
retreated and on reports that Libyan oil output is climbing and
that the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries’ exports
are increasing. The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index dropped 0.6
percent.  “There’s a tension between free money on one hand and
supply on the other,” said  Tim Evans , an energy analyst at Citi
Futures Perspective in New York. “The Fed will loan money at
almost zero percent interest through 2014, which will increase
demand for paper barrels. On the supply side, Libya is pumping
1.3 million barrels a day and OPEC exports are up.”  Libya’s crude production reached 1.3 million barrels a day
as of Jan. 25, the state-run National Oil Corp. said on its
website. Libya is seeking to raise output after disruptions that
began in February during fighting to oust  Muammar Qaddafi . The
country  pumped  1.59 million barrels a day in January 2011 before
output tumbled to 45,000 barrels in August, according to
Bloomberg News data.  OPEC will  export  23.51 million barrels a day in the four
weeks to Feb. 11, up 1.3 percent from 23.2 million shipped in
the period to Jan. 14,  Oil Movements , a Halifax, England-based
researcher, said today in an e-mailed report. The figures
exclude Ecuador and Angola.  Oil in  New York  has traded in a $6.34 range for the past
month with futures trading from $97.40 to $103.74.  Testing Range  “Earlier this week we wanted to test the bottom end of the
range,” said  Gene McGillian , an analyst and broker at Tradition
Energy in Stamford, Connecticut. “After Bernanke made his
statement yesterday, the shorts got cold feet. Now we’re back in
the middle of the range and are looking for a catalyst to launch
another assault at the upper end.”  U.S. durable goods orders were forecast to climb 2 percent
last month, based on the median of estimates by 78 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Another report showed jobless claims
increased last week.  “Negative economic sentiment in the U.S. has receded,”
McGillian said.  Debt Talks  Talks on a debt swap to avert a Greek default resumed today
as international policy makers argue over the mounting cost of
the rescue. European finance ministers have insisted bondholders
take bigger losses on their Greek debt.  Oil prices  have moved over the last two years on the latest
developments in the European debt crisis and the projected
impact it would have on energy demand.  “The European outlook is still pretty grim,” said  Kyle Cooper , director of research with IAF Advisors in Houston.
“We’ll probably trudge along between $90 and $105 until we are
sure what’s happening in  Europe .”  Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said his country is
open to talks on its nuclear program and accused the West of
seeking “pretexts” to dodge negotiations, the state-run  Fars 
news agency reported. The European Union announced Jan. 23 that
it will ban oil from Iran starting on July 1.  Sanctions against Iran’s oil industry may prompt the
Persian Gulf country to close the Strait of Hormuz, Vice
President Mohammad Reza Rahimi said on Dec. 27. The seaway is a
chokepoint for about a fifth of globally traded oil.  Iranian Threat  “Iran continues to loom out there, making it almost
impossible to go home short overnight because you never know
what they’re going to do,” Cooper said. “They probably
couldn’t shut the  Strait of Hormuz  for more than 24 to 48 hours
but that would be enough to cause a huge price spike.”  Oil volume in electronic trading on the Nymex was 475,686
contracts as of 4:07 p.m. in New York. Volume totaled 636,717
yesterday, 7.2 percent above below the three-month average. Open
interest was 1.35 million contracts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Shenk in New York at 
 mshenk1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  