-- Davos Elite Should Put Some Substance in Their Schmooze: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/davos-elite-should-put-some-substance-in-their-schmooze-view.html
If billionaires, bankers and
politicians extract one insight from the World Economic Forum,
let it be this: Western civilization is on the verge of a
catastrophic failure to balance its short-term and long-term
interests.  Market turmoil in Europe has eased a bit and the U.S.
economy is looking healthier than expected as the global elite
converge on the Swiss ski resort of Davos for five days of
speeches, meetings and cocktail parties. But as German
 Chancellor Angela Merkel  rightly noted at the forum yesterday,
world leaders have yet to act on the lessons of a financial
crisis that began in 2008 and has yet to really end.  In the U.S., political leaders are focused almost
exclusively on the short term, to the detriment of the long. The
bank bailouts of 2009, together with various kinds of stimulus -
- insufficient as they may have been -- helped fend off a full-blown depression and at least partly insulated millions of
Americans from economic pain. But the bill for such measures has
to be paid. With a presidential election coming and the banking
lobby fully recovered, the U.S. isn’t likely to make any
progress toward a realistic plan to contain government debt or
repair a financial system that remains highly vulnerable. Last
year’s budget deal will trim only $2.1 trillion over 10 years,
just a fraction of what’s needed.  In  Europe , meanwhile, the region’s most powerful leader --
Merkel -- is focused on the long term to the detriment of the
short. She and her ideological brethren at the European Central
Bank are pushing for a fiscal compact that would rein in
government debt in the 17-nation euro area. They are placing
this laudable goal ahead of urgently needed measures such as a
reckoning of how much strapped countries can actually afford to
pay, a recapitalization of European banks and the construction
of a credible financial  firewall  to protect solvent governments
against contagion. As a result, uncertainty is paralyzing
markets, weighing on the global economy and threatening a
breakup of the euro that could make Merkel’s long-term plans
irrelevant.  The challenges facing the U.S. and Europe stem from the
same phenomenon: The financial elite, investors and taxpayers
alike have become too dependent on government to protect them
from the consequences of their actions. At the same time, they
haven’t been willing to pay the full cost of the services
government provides. The most visible symptom is a buildup of
sovereign debt larger than any the developed world has seen
since the aftermath of World War II. This week, the
International Monetary Fund  projected  that by 2013, the average
gross debt burden of developed countries will exceed 110 percent
of annual output, a level that  represents a serious drag  on
future economic growth.  Reversing this process will be extremely difficult. It
requires society to decide who will pay, a task complicated by
growing inequality and political polarization visible in the
standoffs between Democrats and Republicans in the U.S., and
between Germans and Greeks in the euro area.  No group can solve the problem alone. Future retirees will
have to accept benefits less generous than what they’ve been
promised. Bankers will have to give up the taxpayer subsidies
that boost their profits and paychecks. Everyone will have to
live with higher taxes, smaller government or both. Plans
already on the table, including the $4 trillion  Simpson-Bowles 
deficit-reduction package in the U.S. and the creation of
collectively backed sovereign bonds in the euro area, would be
steps in the right direction.  Davos and concrete action don’t traditionally go hand-in-hand. But, to crib a line from economists Carmen Reinhart and
Kenneth Rogoff, this time is different. The business and
political elites gathered at high altitude have a host of
reasons to set narrow interests aside and work to solve issues
crucial to preserving the economic prosperity on which their
positions depend. If they opt for nothing more than talk, the
disappointment will be deafening.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 