-- Discover Financial Says CFPB Probe May Have ‘Adverse Impact’ on Net Income
-- B y   D o n a l   G r i f f i n   a n d   C a r t e r   D o u g h e r t y
-- 2012-01-27T05:00:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/discover-financial-says-cfpb-probe-may-have-adverse-impact-on-net-income.html
Discover Financial Services (DFS) , the
sixth-biggest U.S. credit-card issuer by customer spending, said
a federal probe into the lender’s marketing practices may hurt
 net income .  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corp. have told Discover they plan to take a
joint enforcement action over the company’s marketing of fee-
based products, including payment protection, the Riverwoods,
Illinois-based firm said yesterday in an annual filing.  “The exposure to loss for this matter could materially
exceed” the $100 million Discover estimates it may cost to
resolve all legal and regulatory issues, the lender said in the
filing. This “could have a material adverse impact on the
company’s near-term net income.”  Minnesota Attorney General Lori Swanson sued the firm in
2010, claiming that its telemarketers failed to tell consumers
when they were agreeing to purchase optional, fee-based
services, including payment protection. Discover entered into a
consent judgment in November to settle the lawsuit and earlier
agreed to a preliminary settlement of eight class-action cases
challenging its marketing tactics, regulatory filings show.  On July 21, the consumer bureau assumed enforcement of
federal consumer laws on banks with more than $10 billion in
assets, giving it jurisdiction over most card issuers. In
September, Discover said that the FDIC, which had authority over
consumer issues at Discover before July 21, decided to bring an
enforcement case regarding the lender’s marketing practices.  Richard Cordray  The CFPB, led by former Ohio Attorney General  Richard Cordray , has said it will consider whether new rules are needed
for debt protection products of the sort at issue in the
Minnesota lawsuits. The Government Accountability Office said
card issuers collected $2.4 billion in fees for debt protection
products in 2009.  “Because the CFPB has been recently established and its
director has been only recently appointed, there is significant
uncertainty as to how the CFPB will exercise and implement its
regulatory, supervisory, examination and enforcement
authority,” Discover said in yesterday’s filing. “Should the
CFPB discourage the use of products we offer or steer consumers
to other products or services that it deems to be preferable, we
could suffer reputation harm and a loss of customers.”  Discover, led by Chief Executive Officer David Nelms, 50,
owns the nation’s fourth-biggest payments network after Visa
Inc., MasterCard Inc. and American Express Co.  Leslie Sutton, a spokeswoman for Discover, declined to
comment, as did Jen Howard at the CFPB and the FDIC’s Greg Hernandez.  Discover climbed 1.9 percent, or 51 cents, to $27.96 at 4
p.m. in  New York . The shares have advanced 35 percent in the
past year, the second-best  performance  in the 81-company
Standard & Poor’s 500 Financial Services Index.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Donal Griffin in New York at 
 dgriffin10@bloomberg.net ;
Carter Dougherty in Washington at 
 cdougherty6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
David Scheer at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net ;
Maura Reynolds at 
 mreynolds34@bloomberg.net  