-- Dole Calls Gingrich a ‘One-Man Band’ Who Will Hurt Party
-- B y   D o n   F r e d e r i c k
-- 2012-01-26T21:49:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/dole-slams-gingrich-as-one-man-band-who-will-hurt-u-s-republican-party.html
Negative public perceptions of then-
U.S. House Speaker  Newt Gingrich  didn’t help Republican Bob Dole
in his failed 1996 presidential bid. For Dole, it’s payback
time.  In an “open letter” released today by  Mitt Romney ’s
presidential campaign as  Florida ’s Jan. 31 primary approaches,
Dole calls Gingrich a “a one-man-band who rarely took advice”
and whose ideas were mostly “off the wall.”  He says that if Gingrich prevails over the former
Massachusetts governor in their battle for the party’s
nomination, “it will have an adverse impact on Republican
candidates running for county, state, and federal offices.”  Dole, 88, makes clear he speaks from experience.  “In my run for the presidency in 1996, the Democrats
greeted me with a number of negative TV ads and in every one of
them Newt was in the ad,” the former Kansas senator says. “He
was very unpopular and I am not only certain that this did not
help me, but that it also cost House seats that year.”  President  Bill Clinton  took 49 percent of the vote in
winning re-election in 1996, while Dole got 41 percent and
independent Ross Perot 8 percent. Democrats also gained nine
House seats in the election, though Republicans retained the
chamber’s majority.  Ice Bucket  Dole’s statement, headlined “Mitt Romney Is My Choice For
President,” also includes this recollection from his 1996 race
concerning Gingrich: “Newt would show up at the campaign
headquarters with an empty ice-bucket in his hand -- that was a
symbol of some sort for him -- and I never did know what he was
doing or why he was doing it.”  Responding to the attack, R.C. Hammond, Gingrich’s
spokesman, noted in an e-mail that Dole endorsed Romney some
weeks ago.  Hammond in a later message on the Twitter social networking
site said: “Hey  Bob Dole , remember when they invented the
refrigerator?”  Republican gains in the 1994 midterm elections paved the
way for Dole to become Senate majority leader and Gingrich the
House speaker when Congress convened in January 1995.  Dole gave up his post in June 1996 to focus on his
presidential race. Gingrich stepped down as speaker after
Republicans lost a few more House seats in the 1998 elections,
though again the party kept its chamber majority.  “In my opinion if we want to avoid an Obama landslide in
November, Republicans should nominate  Governor Romney  as our
standard bearer,” Dole said in his statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Don Frederick in Washington at 
 dfrederick1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  