-- Dollar Reaches Five-Week Low Versus Euro on Fed Rate Pledge; Aussie Climbs
-- B y   M a r i k o   I s h i k a w a   a n d   M o n a m i   Y u i
-- 2012-01-26T07:17:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/dollar-near-1-month-low-as-fed-extends-rate-pledge-to-late-2014.html
The dollar fell to the weakest in
more than a month against the euro after the  Federal Reserve 
extended its pledge to keep interest rates low until late 2014.  Australia’s dollar climbed to a 12-week high as Asian
stocks advanced and Russia said it may start purchasing the
South Pacific nation’s currency. Demand for the 17-nation euro
was limited before talks on a Greek debt swap resume. New
Zealand’s dollar rose for a fifth day even after the nation’s
central bank held its key  interest rate  at a record low.  “The Fed’s pledge for a prolonged easing of monetary
policy boosted risk-on sentiment,” said Kengo Suzuki, manager
of the foreign-bond department in  Tokyo  at Mizuho Securities
Co., a unit of Japan’s third-biggest bank by market value.
“Dollar selling is likely to continue across the board.”  The dollar lost 0.2 percent to $1.3127 per euro as of 7:07
a.m. in  London  after earlier reaching $1.3134, the lowest since
Dec. 21. Japan’s currency slid to 101.98 per euro, the weakest
since Dec. 26, before rallying 0.1 percent to 101.80. The yen
climbed 0.3 percent to 77.56 against the dollar from yesterday,
when it reached 78.28, the weakest since Nov. 29.  The MSCI Asia Pacific  Index (MXAP)  of stocks rose 0.9 percent
following a 0.9 percent advance in the Standard & Poor’s 500
Index yesterday.  Fed Pledge  Economic conditions will likely “warrant exceptionally low
levels for the federal funds rate at least through late 2014,”
the Federal Open Market Committee said in a statement released
in  Washington  yesterday. The Fed had previously pledged to keep
its  rate  target in place until mid-2013.  The central bank also lowered its forecast for economic
growth this year to a range of 2.2 percent to 2.7 percent, down
from a projection of 2.5 percent to 2.9 percent in November. It
predicted an expansion next year of 2.8 percent to 3.2 percent,
down from a previous projection of 3.0 percent to 3.5 percent.  U.S. gross domestic product increased at a 3 percent annual
rate in the fourth quarter, according to the median forecast of
economists in a Bloomberg News survey before the Commerce
Department’s releases the data tomorrow. That compares with a
1.8 percent advance in the previous three-month period.  “The Fed was more dovish than the markets had thought,
given that recent data have been suggesting the  U.S. economy  is
recovering at a modest pace,” said Mizuho’s Suzuki.  The euro slid against 10 of its 16 major counterparts amid
concern European leaders will struggle to reach an agreement on
reducing Greece’s debt burden as a means to stem the region’s
sovereign crisis.  Charles Dallara  and  Jean Lemierre , negotiating
on behalf of private creditors, return to Athens today after
European finance ministers insisted bondholders take bigger
losses on their Greek debt.  Greek Debt Swap  While the  International Monetary Fund  suggested that public
holders of Greek bonds might also have to increase support, the
 European Central Bank  sees this as potentially damaging to
confidence in the institution, according to two people familiar
with the Governing Council’s stance, who declined to be
identified because the matter is confidential.  “The more the settlement of the debt-swap negotiations
gets delayed, the bigger the losses Greece’s private bondholders
will be asked to take,” said Makoto Noji, a Tokyo-based senior
debt and currency strategist at SMBC Nikko Securities Inc., a
unit of  Japan ’s second-biggest banking group by market value.
“Investors can’t start buying the euro at full steam.”  Russian Reserves  The Australian dollar climbed for an eighth day against the
yen and a second session versus its U.S. counterpart. Alexei Ulyukayev, first deputy chairman of Russia’s central bank, said
in Davos,  Switzerland  that his nation may start buying the
Aussie as a  reserve currency  as soon as early February.  Australia’s dollar rose as much as 0.4 percent to $1.0643,
the highest since Oct. 31, and reached 82.61 yen, the strongest
since Nov. 1. New Zealand’s dollar climbed as much as 0.5
percent to 82.09 U.S. cents, also the most since Oct. 31, and
added 0.1 percent to 63.60 yen.  Reserve Bank of  New Zealand  Governor Alan Bollard said
today it is “prudent” for the central bank to keep interest
rates at record low 2.5 percent.  “The RBNZ’s latest post-meeting statement was met with
indifference,” Ray Attrill, a senior currency strategist at BNP
Paribas SA in  New York , wrote in a research note today. The so-
called kiwi dollar is “free to fly again” with the passing of
“event risk,” he said.  -- Editors: Rocky Swift, Ken McCallum  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mariko Ishikawa in Tokyo at 
 mishikawa9@bloomberg.net ;
Monami Yui in Tokyo at 
 myui1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  