-- Don’t Let Iran Benefit From EU Financial Crisis: John R. Bolton
-- B y   J o h n   R .   B o l t o n
-- 2012-01-26T21:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/don-t-let-iran-benefit-from-eu-financial-crisis-john-r-bolton.html
The European financial crisis and
the ineffective effort to stop  Iran ’s nuclear-weapons program
are crashing into each other. As the European Union adopts new
restrictions on importing Iranian oil, the most-troubled EU
economies will continue to seek delays and exceptions.  Ironically,  France  and the U.K., which for years resisted
strong U.S. efforts to impose crippling sanctions on Iran, are
now leading the EU charge. Of course, neither France nor Britain
imports significant amounts of Iranian oil, so the economic
impact on them will not be major. However, the potential
consequences for financially troubled EU countries are grave.
 Greece , for example, imports about a third of its oil from Iran,
and would be badly harmed if its energy costs rose. So would
many southern EU members. Italy imports about 12 percent of its
oil from Iran, and  Spain  about 15 percent.  It is, therefore, no surprise that the EU’s sanctions
negotiations have been tough, even brutal. Continuing pressure
for delays and exceptions, combined with the absence of
meaningful enforcement provisions, leaves each EU country to
police its own compliance.  The EU’s Iran deliberations have been under way at a time
when many EU leaders seem to have concluded that the euro crisis
is over, or at least postponed. In reality, however, continued
EU economic weakness means that mere fiscal restraint by
troubled EU governments will never be sufficient to overcome the
euro zone’s inherent structural deficiencies.  Sunny Propaganda  Simultaneously, sunny propaganda about the impact of
economic sanctions on Iran is emanating from the Obama
administration. Last year, Congress enacted significant new
sanctions against financial institutions dealing with Iran’s
central bank -- an alternative way to strike against its
principal source of earnings: oil exports.  President  Barack Obama , however, worried about his re-
election prospects, opposed the sanctions legislation, fearing
it might significantly increase global oil prices and abort the
weak American economic recovery. In exchange for Obama endorsing
the legislation, its congressional sponsors agreed to allow
Obama some discretion to grant exceptions to the restrictions.  But the waiver provisions simply increase the likelihood
that the new sanctions will have little effect. If Obama grants
even a limited waiver to Turkey, for example,  Japan  and  South
Korea  will surely ask for similar treatment. And  India  has
already said it will restrict oil imports from Iran only in
response to United Nations  Security Council  sanctions, which, of
course, neither  China  nor  Russia  will permit. So the net effect
of the new legislation is likely to be very limited.  Interestingly, China is behaving in the most capitalist
fashion of any of the major players. First, officials in Beijing
(and in Moscow) continue to make it clear that they oppose
significant new sanctions, especially if such measures might
limit China’s importation of Iranian oil. Second, China publicly
opposes Iran’s having nuclear weapons, thus allowing Obama to
proclaim -- misleadingly -- a world united against Iran. In
fact, while China may not want a nuclear Iran, it doesn’t plan
to do much to prevent it. Third, Chinese Premier  Wen Jiabao  has
toured the Arab oil-producing countries, lining up alternative
oil sources in case Iran is cut off. Capitalists call this
hedging.  Iran, moreover, diplomatically savvier than its
adversaries, is moving to accept new negotiations with the
Security Council’s five permanent members plus  Germany . Russia
and  Turkey  have already welcomed this latest Iranian ploy.
These discussions, on and off for 10 years, have produced no
meaningful limits on Iran’s continuing quest for nuclear
weapons. If anything, the talks have simply bought Iran time to
make progress on its nuclear-weapons program, and given the
country some political cover.  Israel Stands Alone  Israel  alone seems to understand how perilous the situation
is, as Iran rapidly approaches its longstanding objective of
possessing nuclear weapons. To prevent any pre-emptive military
action, Obama has applied unrelenting pressure on Israel. So
far, this effort has succeeded, but how much longer Israel will
stand by idly is purely a matter of conjecture.  You can bet on one thing: As long as any new negotiations
are under way, Western diplomats will try to avoid further
sanctions for fear of endangering their precious negotiation
“process.” All the while, of course, Iran will continue to
progress toward nuclear weapons, and find new and better ways to
evade the supposedly tough new sanctions. Moreover, the European
financial crisis will continue to percolate, with uncertainty in
international  oil prices  making things more difficult.  Western leaders may thus be forced to choose, in effect,
between squeezing Iran harder or imperiling their own economic
recoveries and political futures. If that is the choice, there
is little doubt what will happen. Tehran’s mullahs fully
understand this dynamic, and are successfully exploiting it,
which is why 2012 could well be the year of the Iranian nuclear
weapon.  Primarily because of a decade of EU weakness, there is no
easy way out of this dilemma. In the aftermath of the 2003
American invasion of  Iraq , for example, France and Germany were
so determined to show their superior diplomatic skills that Iran
has not to this day sensed a credible option of force being used
against its nuclear-weapons program. No wonder officials in
Tehran have disregarded EU and U.S. rhetoric.  Now, however, there are only two possible outcomes: Either
Iran gets nuclear weapons or it doesn’t. To ensure that it
doesn’t, the only viable option is to break Iran’s weapons
program militarily. This would surely be an unpleasant
undertaking, and may well have undesirable short-term economic
consequences. But which is worse: Iran as a permanent nuclear
power, or the short-term risks that would arise from swift
action to prevent that result?  Unfortunately, Western leaders may achieve the worst of
both worlds: a nuclear Iran and an unrecovered  Europe . If so,
they will have only themselves to blame. But all of us will
suffer from their unwillingness to make hard choices in a timely
fashion.  (John R. Bolton, the former U.S. ambassador to the UN, is a
senior fellow at the  American Enterprise Institute  and the
author of “Surrender Is Not an Option.” The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
 John Bolton  at  christine.samuelian@aei.org   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Michael Newman at  mnewman43@bloomberg.net  