-- Obama Cabinet Member’s Son Among Americans Who Can’t Exit Egypt
-- B y   N i c o l e   G a o u e t t e
-- 2012-01-27T05:01:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/dot-sec-son-among-americans-blocked-in-egypt.html
Egyptian authorities are blocking
Americans working for U.S.-based pro-democracy organizations
from leaving the country pending a decision on whether to put
them on trial.  The development, drawing top-level attention, has raised
tensions with the U.S. at a time when the Obama administration
has been seeking to aid  Egypt ’s democratic transition.  The travel ban came to light after Sam LaHood, son of U.S.
Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood and resident country
director of the International Republican Institute, or IRI, in
Egypt, was stopped from boarding a flight to leave the country.
The institute is one of three U.S. pro-democracy groups raided
by Egyptian police in December for allegedly breaking local
laws.  LaHood was stopped on Jan. 21, a day after President  Barack Obama  called Egyptian Field Marshall Mohammed Hussein Tantawi,
head of Egypt’s interim ruling body, and stressed the importance
of allowing non-governmental organizations, or NGOs, to operate
freely.  “In most other countries, if the president of the  United
States  calls, you try to get to yes,” Lorne Craner, head of the
Washington-based IRI, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
“Here, we’re not seeing any movement whatsoever and it
continues to get worse. That’s what is especially distressing
and disquieting.”  Secretary LaHood told reporters in Washington yesterday
that he has spoken to his son three or four times by telephone.
His son appreciates the work being done by the U.S. Ambassador
to Egypt, Anne Patterson, to get him home, LaHood said.  ‘Growing Alarm and Outrage’  Republican Senator  John McCain  of Arizona said in a
statement that he is watching the events in Egypt with “growing
alarm and outrage” and that he felt “fear for the safety of
all the employees of these NGOs.”  At a previously scheduled press conference in Cairo,
 Michael Posner , the State Department’s assistant secretary for
democracy, human rights and labor, repeatedly warned that,
before Egypt can get its annual aid for the U.S., the Obama
administration must certify to Congress that the country is
making progress toward democracy.  Egypt has received an average of $2 billion a year in aid
from the U.S. since 1979, largely for military purposes,
according to the  Congressional Research Service , the non-
partisan research arm for Congress.  “Obviously any action that creates tension between our
governments makes the whole package more difficult,” Posner
said yesterday, according to a transcript provided by the State
Department.  Loans Sought  Egypt’s economy is struggling and the nation is currently
pursuing $500 million loans from both the  World Bank  and the
 African Development Bank . It is also negotiating a 1.1 percent
interest rate for a $3.2 billion loan it officially requested
from the  International Monetary Fund  earlier this month.  Posner said that keeping Egypt economically stable is
important to the U.S. “Right now we are determined to provide,
to make sure through the IMF and other sources that we provide,
the kind of support that Egypt needs in the short term,” he
said.  Craner said that IRI was told the Americans weren’t being
allowed to leave because “there is a possibility of trials and
it could be quite soon” and therefore the authorities didn’t
want them leaving the country.  The other organizations affected include Freedom House, a
watchdog group that advocates for democracy and human rights,
and the National Democratic Institute, a pro-democracy group
affiliated with the  Democratic Party .  Obama, Clinton  State Department spokeswoman  Victoria Nuland  said that at
least three or four Americans had been barred from leaving Egypt
and that the matter was being taken up at the highest levels.  “Even up to the level of the president, we’ve been working
on this issue,” Nuland said, referring to Obama’s call with
Tantawi. Patterson, the U.S. ambassador, has been very involved,
Nuland said. Secretary of State  Hillary Clinton  spoke to Foreign
Minister Mohammed Kamel Amr of Egypt over the weekend as well.  Nuland said that, despite assurances from Egyptians in
December that they would soon return computers and materials
confiscated from the NGOs during the raids, that hasn’t
happened.  “We had these raids on the NGOs; we had property
confiscated; we had staff interrogated, this kind of thing, so
we have not yet resolved this situation,” Nuland said at the
State Department daily news briefing. “As we watch this
Egyptian process of transition to democracy, we have seen some
positive steps and we’ve seen some issues that are of concern.”  Not Registered  The groups were targeted in part for not being properly
registered in Egypt, Craner said. He said his group has been
trying to register for five years and has been stymied, a claim
Nuland backed up.  “IRI, NDI have been active in Egypt for previous elections
they have wanted to register,” Nuland said in a briefing
yesterday.  Lawyers for the National Democratic Institute received
verbal notification from the judge’s office that six of its non-
Egyptian staff were subject to a travel ban, Julie Hughes, the
country director of the Washington-based group, said.  “We got no explanation,” Hughes said in a telephone
interview. “We were told that we would receive a written
notification on Sunday.”  Three of the staffers covered by the decision are U.S.
citizens, according to Hughes, who said she is also banned from
traveling.  The December raids led human rights groups to question the
Egyptian government’s commitment to democracy after taking power
from former President  Hosni Mubarak .  The army, which has accused “foreign hands” of fomenting
unrest in the country, has come under renewed pressure from
protesters to hand over power to civilians.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Nicole Gaouette in  Washington  at 
 ngaouette@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  