-- Durable Goods Orders in U.S. Climb 3%, Stronger Than Economists Estimated
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-26T21:09:29Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/durable-goods-orders-in-u-s-climb-3-stronger-than-economists-estimated.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
climbed more than forecast in December, pointing to a rebound in
business investment that will help support the world’s largest
economy in early 2012.  Bookings (DGNOCHNG)  for long-lasting goods advanced 3 percent after
rising 4.3 percent the prior month, the biggest back-to-back
gains in almost a year, according to Commerce Department data
today in  Washington . Other reports showed indexes of leading
indicators and consumer comfort improved, jobless claims rose
from an almost four-year low and sales of new houses dropped.  Growing demand for raw materials from  emerging markets  and
the need to replenish depleted inventories and update equipment
are swelling order backlogs at manufacturers like  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT)  which will keep spurring production. Combined with fewer
firings and added confidence, the gains may help shield the U.S.
from a slowdown in  Europe  caused by the region’s debt crisis.  “We’re poised for a bounce-back in the first quarter in
terms of business spending,” said Scott Anderson, a senior
economist at Wells Fargo Securities LLC in  Minneapolis .
“Confidence is up, and there are some signs that the labor
market is improving. We’re still facing issues with housing.”  Economists  projected  a 2 percent increase in demand for
durable goods, which are those made to last at least three
years, according to the median forecast of 78 economists
surveyed by Bloomberg News. Estimates ranged from a drop of 2.8
percent to an increase of 6.7 percent.  Orders climbed 10 percent last year after a 15.5 percent
gain in 2010.  Shares Fall  Stocks fell, reversing a rally that sent the  Dow Jones
Industrial Average  toward its highest level since 2008 earlier,
as banks tumbled. The  stock index  dropped 0.2 percent to
12,734.63 at the close in  New York . The Standard & Poor’s
Supercomposite Machinery Index decreased less than 0.1 percent.  Elsewhere today, surveys showed German and French consumers
are growing more confident, suggesting household spending may
temper the slowdown in Europe’s two largest economies.  In  Asia ,  South Korea ’s economy grew the least in two years
in the fourth quarter as exports sank because of Europe’s
sovereign debt crisis and a slowing global expansion.  The risks from overseas are one reason Federal Reserve
policy makers yesterday indicated that they’ll keep interest
rates low though 2014, extending a prior pledge from mid 2013.  Fed’s View  “Strains in global financial markets continue to pose
significant downside risks to the economic outlook,” policy
makers said in a statement after keeping  interest rates  near
zero.  Other reports in the U.S. today showed the economy will
keep growing. The index of leading indicators rose in December
for a third month, according to a report from the New York-based
Conference Board. The research group’s gauge of the outlook for
the next three to six months increased 0.4 percent after
climbing 0.2 percent in November.  Data from the Labor Department showed  jobless claims  rose
last week, displaying the usual volatility around holidays.
Applications for  unemployment benefits  rose by 21,000 to 377,000
in the week ended Jan. 21. The prior week’s 356,000 was the
lowest since April 2008.  Also today, the  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort (COMFCOMF)  Index improved
to minus 46.4 in the week ended Jan. 22 from minus 47.4 the
prior period. All three components of the gauge, including
measures on the current state of the economy, buying climate and
personal finances, climbed.  Unfilled Orders  The durable goods report showed unfilled orders increased
1.5 percent, the biggest jump since March 2008 and a sign
assembly lines will keep humming.  Caterpillar, the largest construction and mining-equipment
maker, posted fourth-quarter earnings and forecast full-year
profit that topped analysts’ estimates as demand rose for earth-
moving machinery and trucks. The Peoria, Illinois-based company
said it had a record $29.8 billion backlog of orders at the end
of 2011.  “We’re very tight on production capacity for many of our
products and are continuing to invest in new and existing
factories,” Chief Executive Officer  Doug Oberhelman  said in a
statement.  Homebuilding is one area of the economy that will take more
time to recover. Sales of new houses unexpectedly declined in
December for the first time in four months, capping the slowest
year on record for the industry.  Home Sales  Purchases (NHSLTOT)  of single-family properties decreased 2.2 percent
from the prior month to a 307,000 annual pace, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today. Builders sold 302,000 homes
last year, down 6.2 percent from 2010 and marking the worst year
in data going back to 1963.  Following a lull in 2011, a wave of foreclosures may delay
the recovery in residential construction as more distressed
properties are put on the market.  “Builders continue to contend with a number of existing
homes that are deeply discounted,” said  Anika Khan , an
economist at  Wells Fargo Securities LLC  in  Charlotte ,  North
Carolina . “We’re expecting a bit of a pickup in 2012, but we
won’t see a meaningful increase as long as new homes are
competing with those existing homes.”  A report tomorrow from the Commerce Department may show the
economy grew at a 3 percent annual rate from October through
December, up from a 1.8 percent pace in the previous three
months and the best performance in more than a year, according
to the median estimate of economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in Washington at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  