-- The NHL’s Identity Crisis
-- B y   B r i a n   F i n k e l
-- 2012-01-26T02:12:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/the-nhl-s-identity-crisis.html
Can you name the  National Hockey
League ’s leading scorer this season? How about the most recent
winner of the league’s Most Valuable Player award?  Despite being one of the “Big Four” North American pro sports
leagues, the NHL has just three players on this year’s Power
100:  Chicago ’s Jonathan Toews (No. 69), Vancouver’s Daniel Sedin
(No. 76), and  Boston ’s Tim Thomas (No. 86). The NHL’s
representation in the  Power 100  is so low that it trails every
other sport except action sports and boxing. By comparison, the
 National Football League  has 26 players on the list, followed by
the  National Basketball Association , with 20, and  Major League
Baseball , with 16.  The cold reality is that hockey has an identity crisis.
Unlike its Big Four counterparts, the NHL lacks a core group of
marketable superstars. Of the 39 athletes who made a repeat
appearance on each of the last three Power 100s, not one plays
hockey.  As for the NHLers on the last Power 100, Pittsburgh’s “Golden
Child”  Sidney Crosby  has missed the better part of two years due
to concussions;  Washington ’s  Alex Ovechkin  is in the midst of
back-to-back mediocre seasons, by his standards; and Chicago’s
 Patrick Kane  still is shedding perceptions that he’s volatile
off the ice. Even if both Crosby and Ovechkin were playing at
their highest levels, it wouldn’t resonate much with marketers
or consumers. The NHL’s two biggest stars register a low 7
percent total “Awareness,” an E-Poll Market Research measurement
that averages name and face recognition. The most recognizable
pro players? Kobe Bryant, with a 57 percent Awareness score,
Peyton Manning (46 percent), and Derek Jeter (45 percent).  Even Without Celebrities, Hockey Grows  The NHL is succeeding despite this situation. The league
generated a record $2.9 billion in revenue last season, a 7.4
percent increase from 2010, and expects to set records for both
sales and attendance this season. The jump is attributed to new
sponsorship deals -- including 25 companies represented at the
Jan. 25 All-Star Game -- and growth within the league’s
merchandising and licensing divisions. “More national business
partners than ever are activating NHL-themed ads,” league
spokesman Frank Brown wrote in an e-mail. “THEY are the [ones]
who assess who our most-marketable players are and there is no
shortage of candidates for major campaigns that these companies
are eager to undertake.”  In addition, this NHL season begins a new, 10-year, $2
billion TV rights agreement with NBC Sports. At an average of
$200 million annually, the deal far exceeds the previous NHL
television record of $120 million per year that ESPN paid from
1999 to 2004. The NHL’s last deal with Versus was for $77
million annually, plus a revenue-sharing pact with NBC.  “The NHL has done a great job in the last few years of
engaging their core and finding ways to reach casual fans,
especially through digital and social media and their ever-
growing relationship with NBC,” said Chris Russo, chief
executive officer of Big Lead Sports, an independent sports web.
“However, the next step will be to find even more ways to
involve the individual personalities of players.”  With Crosby out indefinitely and Ovechkin failing to live up
to expectations, this is a suitable time for the NHL to reassess
who its most marketable player might be. It could be the
Rangers’  Brad Richards , the league’s highest-paid player in its
biggest market, regularly drawing crowds to  New York ’s Madison
Square Garden. Or perhaps it is  Steven Stamkos , the young Tampa
Bay Lightning star who leads the league in scoring and graces
the cover of EA Sports’ NHL 12 video game. Or Anaheim’s Corey Perry, the league’s 2010-11 MVP. Maybe it’s Toews, Sedin, or
Thomas, the three hockey players that cracked the Power 100.  With the league’s collective bargaining agreement set to
expire in September -- and another work stoppage possible -- the
NHL can’t afford to lose more goodwill among fans, especially
without a marketing savior.  (Click  here  to see the complete  2012 Power 100 .)  To contact the writer on this story:
Brian Finkel at  bhfinkel@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Beucke at   dbeucke@bloomberg.net  