-- EADS Names Tom Enders to Succeed Gallois as Chief Executive
-- B y   A n d r e a   R o t h m a n
-- 2012-01-26T17:26:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/eads-names-enders-to-succeed-gallois-in-june-as-chief-executive.html
European Aeronautic Defence & Space
Co. named  Tom Enders  chief executive officer from June 2012 to
succeed  Louis Gallois  as part of a management reshuffle aimed to
maintain a balance between French and German shareholders.  Enders, a 53-year-old German, has been CEO of Airbus since
2007, the same period in which Gallois, 68, has run the parent
company. Fabrice Bregier, chief operating officer at Airbus
under Enders, will succeed him as CEO at the planemaker, while
Arnaud Lagardere will succeed Bodo Uebber as chairman of EADS,
the Paris- and Munich-based company said in a statement today.  “The management is grateful that the board has taken these
wide-ranging decisions, in a dispassionate climate, and timely
to facilitate a professional transition,” Gallois said. “Tom
Enders not only has a wide range of experience across our
businesses, but strong leadership skills and charisma with an
established track record.”  The moves were originally hatched in 2007, when EADS ended
seven years of dual management and switched to one CEO. Gallois,
a Frenchman, was named to lead EADS, with Enders giving up his
co-CEO title to run  Airbus (EAD) , the biggest revenue contributor to
the parent company. Shareholders agreed to alternate
nationalities after five years, highlighting government interest
in  Europe ’s largest aviation and defense company.  Trichet Appointment  As part of the changes, EADS also proposed former European
Central Bank President  Jean-Claude Trichet  as a member of the
board. Trichet stepped down last year at the Frankfurt-based
bank. Each mandate announced carries a five-year term.  The succession, which becomes official after a May
shareholder meeting, comes as EADS is struggling to increase the
percentage of shares available in the open market and let core
shareholders  Daimler AG (DAI)  and  Lagardere SCA (MMB)  plan an exit without
putting EADS at the risk of hostile takeover.  The French state now owns 15 percent of EADS and Lagardere
owns 7.5 percent and has voting control over the whole French
stake. Daimler, the maker of Mercedes-Benz cars, now controls
22.5 percent of EADS and is selling a third of that stake to the
German government after it failed to find other private buyers
within  Germany .  The company also announced a switch for the chief financial
officer, with Airbus CFO Harald Wilhelm taking on the same role
at EADS. He succeeds Hans Peter Ring, who will retire.  EADS was formed in July 2000, bringing together aerospace
assets from France, Germany and Spain. Enders ran EADS’s
military business when EADS was first founded, becoming co-CEO
in June 2005. He also worked for Daimler’s aerospace division
until it was merged into EADS.  “As CEO of EADS he’s still got to deal with the challenges
he faced at Airbus, managing the production ramp-up, keeping the
A350 on track, and also the A400M, as well eliminating losses on
the A380,” said Zafar Khan, an analyst at  Societe Generale  in
 London . “And then he needs to continue integrating the group
more, and finding more common synergies, including purchasing,
across the different businesses.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrea Rothman in Paris at 
 aerothman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  