-- EasyJet Surges as Business-Traveler Bookings Boost Revenue: London Mover
-- B y   S t e v e   R o t h w e l l
-- 2012-01-26T14:42:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/easyjet-six-month-loss-to-be-similar-as-sales-gain-offsets-fuel.html
EasyJet Plc (EZJ) ,  Europe ’s second-biggest
discount carrier, rose the most in six months after 200,000
additional business bookings sent quarterly sales surging.  EasyJet  rose  as much as 12 percent in London trading after
revenue jumped almost 17 percent to 763 million pounds ($1.2
billion) in the first quarter ended Dec. 31, offsetting fuel-
bill increases and curbing an anticipated first-half loss.  Chief Executive Officer Carolyn McCall has added flights on
key routes while introducing allocated seating, flexible tickets
and sales via corporate agents to grab a bigger slice of a
business market in which later bookings offer yields, or fares,
typically 20 percent higher than for leisure trips. EasyJet
lured 2.3 million corporate travelers in the three months, aided
by the establishment of a dedicated 10-person sales team.  “Discount airlines are doing very well, despite the
economy,” said Gert Zonneveld an analyst at Panmure Gordon in
London with a “buy” recommendation on the stock. “EasyJet is
a solid business with a strong balance sheet and a strong brand
name which hasn’t yet been translated into superior valuations.”  Shares of EasyJet, based in Luton, north of London, gained
49.7 pence to 453.5 pence, the  most since July 22 , and were
trading 9 percent higher at 440 pence as of 2:40 p.m. in the
U.K. capital London, valuing the company at 1.89 billion pounds.  Ryanair Gains  The stock has advanced 12 percent this year after slumping
11 percent in 2011. Larger rival  Ryanair Holdings Plc (RYA)  traded 4.1
percent higher today and has added almost 15 percent this year.  EasyJet’s  sales  gain, which has been aided by a milder
winter, will allow it to absorb most of a 100 million-pound jump
in jet-fuel costs for the fiscal first half, McCall said today,
limiting the pretax loss to an estimated 140 million pounds to
160 million, compared with 153 million pounds a year earlier.  “EasyJet has made a strong start to the year,” the CEO
said in a statement. “The good performance in the quarter has
meant we are cautiously confident in our outlook.”  The carrier lured more corporate flyers even as the overall
business-travel market contracted in the quarter, it said,
citing U.K. Guild of Travel Management Companies data. Market
share is being boosted by a decision to devote 70 percent of new
capacity to strengthening existing routes with most potential to
lift yields, such as southeast  England ,  France  and  Switzerland .  Banking, Retail  From London, EasyJet operates 14  daily flights  to
Amsterdam, 12 apiece to Glasgow and Edinburgh and 10 to
Barcelona. New clients include some banks and retailers,
spokesman  Paul Moore  said, while declining to identify any.  Stelios Haji Ioannou, the company’s founder and largest
shareholder, said in a statement that management had overstated
the impact of business passengers, and that the increase is “not
a big deal” for earnings, with some corporate clients flying on
“half-empty” services in the afternoon, when fares are lower.  The entrepreneur has been at loggerheads with EasyJet’s
board for more than three years in a dispute over jet purchases,
and he plans to vote against remuneration awards at the
company’s annual meeting next month.  The overall passenger count increased 8.1 percent to 12.9
million in the quarter, boosting occupancy levels almost 1
percentage point to 87.6 percent, while revenue per seat grew
7.7 percent, the statement said. Some 70 percent of available
seats have already been sold for the half, in line with a year
ago, with bookings running at 15 percent for the second half.  EasyJet’s passenger revenue per seat increased 6.5 percent
to 40.29 pounds, with ticket prices strengthening as competitors
“retrenched,” it said. Ancillary sales for items such as checked
bags increased by 68 pence to an average 4.70 pounds a seat and
sales fees and charges increased 1.24 pounds to 5.88 pounds.  First-quarter sales were  estimated  at 725 million pounds by
analysts at Deutsche Bank AG and 730 million pounds at UBS AG.  Numis Securities lifted its recommendation to “hold” from
“reduce” and raised its full-year pretax profit estimate to
225 million pounds from 193 million pounds. Credit Suisse
analysts raised their annual forecast 8 percent to 240 million
pounds, while predicting a 217 million-pound first-half loss.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Rothwell in  London  at 
 srothwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chad Thomas at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net  