-- Heating Oil, Gasoline Gain as Fed Commits to Low Interest Rates
-- B y   B a r b a r a   P o w e l l
-- 2012-01-26T21:26:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/heating-oil-gasoline-gain-as-fed-commits-to-low-interest-rates.html
Heating oil and gasoline gained as
the  Federal Reserve  indicated it will maintain near-zero
interest rates to stimulate growth and refiners reduced output
to cut supplies.  Futures rose after Fed officials said yesterday that the
benchmark interest rate would stay low until at least 2014. Two
refineries in Pennsylvania and one in the U.S. Virgin Islands
have been closed because they weren’t profitable.  “The underlying reason products are up continues to be the
worries of supplies going forward,” said Gene McGillian, an
analyst and broker at Tradition Energy in Stamford, Connecticut.
“And there’s the idea that  oil prices  are going to be supported
by easy money.”  February-delivery heating oil rose 3.43 cents, or 1.1
percent, to settle at $3.0535 a gallon on the  New York
Mercantile Exchange , the highest settlement since Jan. 12.
Gasoline for February delivery rose 1.28 cents, or 0.5 percent,
to $2.8466.  Fed Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday that
policy makers may buy more bonds to boost growth, setting the
stage for a third round of quantitative easing.  “There’s concerns about refinery outages and the Fed
action is still the predominant reason the market is up,” said
 Phil Flynn , vice president of research at PFGBest in Chicago.  New York Harbor  New York Harbor is the futures delivery point for
reformulated gasoline blendstock, or RBOB, and heating oil. The
region is facing potential supply tightness after the shutdown
of Pennsylvania refineries by  Sunoco Inc. (SUN)  and  ConocoPhillips. (COP)   Hovensa LLC, a partnership of Hess Corp. and  Petroleos de
Venezuela SA , said on Jan. 18 it will shut the 350,000-barrel-a-
day St. Croix refinery in the U.S. Virgin Islands by mid-
February. The plant supplies products to the U.S. East Coast.  The Energy Department reported yesterday that U.S.
refineries operated at 82.2 percent of capacity last week, an
eight-month low.  Futures also gained on speculation the economy is
strengthening as orders for U.S.  durable goods  climbed 3 percent
in December, after a 4.3 percent rise the prior month, according
to Commerce Department data.  “Everything was up early on decent economic numbers and
the fact the Fed is going to keep interest rates low for a long
time,”  said Fred Rigolini, vice president of Paramount Options
Inc. in  New York .  Regular gasoline  at the pump, averaged nationwide, was
unchanged at $3.379 yesterday, according to AAA data.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Barbara J Powell in Dallas at 
 bpowell4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dan Stets at 
 dstets@bloomberg.net  