-- Medtronic Patent Trial Victory Over NuVasive Remains Intact
-- B y   B i l l   C a l l a h a n
-- 2012-01-26T23:09:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/medtronic-patent-trial-victory-over-nuvasive-remains-intact-1-.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT) ’s $101.2 million jury
verdict against NuVasive Inc. over spinal surgery patents was
left intact by the judge who presided over the September trial.  U.S. District Judge Michael Anello in  San Diego , at a
hearing today, denied NuVasive’s requests to overturn the Sept.
20 jury verdict or order a new trial. Anello issued tentative
rulings to that effect yesterday.  “The bottom line is that I now respectfully affirm my
tentatives denying the motions,” the judge said.  The $101.2 million damages verdict, which was awarded after
a two-week trial, was the 18th-largest jury award in the U.S. in
2011 and the fourth-largest in a patent-infringement claim,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  After the verdict, San Diego-based NuVasive argued that the
patents weren’t infringed and the jury verdict wasn’t supported
by the evidence.  Permanent Injunction  The judge today rejected NuVasive’s claim that one of the
patents in dispute is invalid, and also denied Medtronic’s
request for a permanent injunction barring NuVasive from selling
the devices found to infringe its patents.  Anello additionally left intact the jury’s award of
$660,000 in damages to NuVasive for Medtronic’s infringement of
one of its patents.  “We respectfully differ with some of the rulings and are
in the process of assessing our options going forward,” Luke
Dauchot, a lawyer for Medtronic, said in an interview after
today’s hearing.  NuVasive’s lawyer, Frank E. Scherkenbach, didn’t
immediately respond to a phone message seeking comment on
today’s rulings.  Medtronic is still seeking post-verdict damages dating from
June 10, 2010, the ending date on which the jury’s finding was
based, to the present.  The judge asked lawyers to file legal briefs on how to
compute post-verdict damages and scheduled a Feb. 27 status
conference.  NuVasive closed at $15.57 in Nasdaq Stock Market trading,
down 4.5 percent. Medtronic, based in  Minneapolis , fell 1.3
percent to $39.43 in New York Stock Exchange composite trading.  The case is Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA v.  NuVasive Inc. (NUVA) ,
3:08-cv-1512, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 California  (San Diego).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Peter Blumberg in  San Francisco  at 
 pblumberg1@bloomberg.net 
Bill Callahan in federal court in San Diego at
 Callahan@san.rr.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  