-- Medtronic, Sequenom, Pfizer: Intellectual Property
-- B y   V i c t o r i a   S l i n d - F l o r
-- 2012-01-26T18:56:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/medtronic-sequenom-roche-dice-corp-intellectual-property.html
Medtronic Inc. (MDT)  will lose its bid for
a permanent injunction barring NuVasive Inc. from selling spinal
surgery devices that were found to infringe patents held by a
Medtronic unit, a federal judge in  San Diego  said in a tentative
ruling.  U.S. District Judge Michael Anello also said yesterday that
he will let lawyers attempt to change his tentative rulings at a
hearing today. The tentative rulings follow a Sept. 20 jury
verdict in which Minneapolis-based Medtronic was awarded $101.2
million in damages after the jury found that San Diego-based
NuVasive infringed three Medtronic patents.  The judge also tentatively denied requests by NuVasive to
overturn the verdict or grant a new trial.  The case is Medtronic Sofamor Danek USA v.  NuVasive Inc. (NUVA) ,
3:08-cv-1512, U.S. District Court, Southern District of
 California  (San Diego).  Sequenom Accuses Aria, Natera of Infringing Prenatal Test Patent  Sequenom Inc., which uses genetic analysis to diagnose
conditions such as Down syndrome, sued  Aria Diagnostics Inc. (0117586D)  and
Natera Inc. for allegedly infringing a patent used for non-
invasive prenatal testing.  Aria and Natera developed prenatal tests using methods
covered by a patent exclusively licensed to Sequenom in the
U.S., according to separate complaints filed yesterday in
federal court in San Diego, where Sequenom is based.  Sequenom said its claims “relate to nucleic acid analysis
and prenatal diagnosis.”  Earlier complaints filed by Aria and Natera seek a judge’s
declaration that they haven’t infringed the disputed patent,
6,258,540, which was licensed to Sequenom by U.K.-based  Isis
Innovation Ltd.  Isis Innovation is the technology-transfer
organization associated with the University of Oxford and the
two named inventors have an affiliation with the school. Natera
said Sequenom’s claims on the ‘540 patent are invalid.  Representatives of Aria and Natera didn’t respond to phone
and e-mail messages seeking comment on Sequenom’s complaints.  The cases are  Sequenom Inc. (SQNM)  v. Natera Inc. 12-cv-0184, and
Sequenom v. Aria Diagnostics Inc., 12-cv-0189, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of California (San Diego).  Roche Patent Case Against Nova Biomedical, LifeScan Revived  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s diagnostics unit won an appeals court
ruling that revives a patent-infringement case against  Johnson &
Johnson (JNJ) ’s LifeScan unit and Nova Biomedical Corp. over glucose
monitors.  The  U.S. Court of Appeals  for the Federal Circuit yesterday
said a judge should have considered the definition of a key term
in the Roche patents for methods to determine the concentration
of glucose in a blood sample. The court vacated a finding of
non-infringement, and sent the case back to the trial court for
further proceedings.  For more patent news, click here.  Trademark  Pfizer Inc. (PFE) ’s ‘Viagra’ Mark Infringed by ‘Viaguara,’ Court Rules  Pfizer Inc.’s European trademark for its erectile
dysfunction drug Viagra would be infringed by an energy and
alcoholic drink named Viaguara, a European court ruled,
according to the  Associated Press   reported .  The European Union’s General Court said the name for the
drink, used by a Polish company, was trying to piggyback on the
fame of the Pfizer product, AP said.  The ruling came in an appeal of a 2005 rejection of the
Polish company’s application for a trademark, AP said. The court
also said it was dangerous to make a link between an alcoholic
drink and an anti-impotence drug, AP reported.  For more trademark news, click here.  Copyright  Compositionally Similar Photo Infringes Copyright, Court Says  New English Teas Ltd. , a producer of teas and tea blends,
was found to have infringed a copyright by using an image that
was too much like one on products by a maker of  London 
souvenirs.  The U.K. Patents Court  said  the picture on the tea tin was
so similar in composition to a photo used on  Temple Island
Collections Ltd. ’s souvenirs that actual infringement occurred,
even though the tea company’s image wasn’t a copy.  The image to which Coventry-based Temple Island objected is
a black-and-white composite photo showing the Houses of
Parliament to which a red double-decker bus has been added.  Temple Island’s original image was first published in 2006
and has been used on a wide range of souvenirs including mugs
and stationery every since. Historic Royal Palaces, which
operates the Tower of London, took a license to the photo and
uses it on T-shirts, according to court papers.  The creator of the tea-tin image “was clearly trying to
avoid infringing” the Temple Island photo, the court noted.
This effort was unsuccessful, the court said. The tea company
and its owner “do not really have a case of independent design
at all,” according to the opinion.  The judge said the common elements in the tea-tin image and
the original photo are “causally related” and this constitutes
impermissible copying.  The case is Between Temple Island Collections Ltd. and New
English Teas Ltd., 1CL70031, In the Patents County Court.  Dreamfly Productions Sued Over ‘En Pointe’ Reality TV Program  Dreamfly Productions LLC , a Dallas-based production
company, was sued for copyright infringement and trade secret
misappropriation by the developer of a ballet-themed reality
television program.  According to the complaint filed Jan. 23 in federal court
in  Dallas ,  Texas  resident John Harris Masterson created a
reality-based TV series that followed dancers and other members
of the  Texas Ballet Theater .  Masterson hired Dreamfly Productions in September 2010 to
assist in the production of “Starting Pointe.” After several
months of pre-production, the relationship between Masterson and
Dreamfly deteriorated to a point when, in March 2011, Masterson
terminated the agreement, he said in court filings.  Under a negotiated agreement, Dreamfly was to return all
work product for the series, Masterson said. He said nothing was
returned and in July, Dreamfly announced a reality TV series
“En Pointe,” featuring the  Miami City Ballet , headed by Edward
Villella, formerly of the  New York City Ballet .  Masterson said “En Pointe” has “the same format, same
subjects, similar film footage, same perspective and same
recurring themes” as “Starting Pointe,” and therefore
infringes his copyright.  After he demanded that Dreamfly cease production of the
series, Dreamfly and its director Laura Jenkins continued to
infringe his copyrights, Masterson said.  He asked the court to halt the alleged infringement of his
copyright and use of his  trade secrets . He is seeking money
damages, profits derived from the allegedly infringing series,
and attorney fees and litigation costs.  Lisa Jenkins, the director of Dreamfly Productions, said in
an e-mail that she hadn’t been served with the complaint. She
said she’s not the owner of “En Pointe,” and only acts as the
sales agent for the program.  Neither of the ballet-oriented reality shows has been
produced, she said.  “How does a program that has never had a single episode
produced infringe on another program that does not have a single
episode produced?” she said.  Masterson is represented by  Aaron Davidson ,  Priscilla
Dunckel  and  Elizabeth K. Stanley  of Houston’s  Baker Botts LLP (1143L) .  The case is Masterson v. Jenkins, 12-cv-00234, U.S.
District Court, Northern District of Texas (Dallas).  Getty’s Sale of Photos Featuring Le Corbusier Sofas Infringes  Hellman & Friedman LLC’s Getty Images unit is appealing a
French court ruling that its sale of stock images of armchairs
and sofas created by French furniture designers in collaboration
with the artist Le Corbusier constitutes copyright infringement,
the British Journal of Photography  reported .  The owners of the  intellectual property  rights relating to
the furniture have waged a 25-year war to halt the images’ use
in advertising to promote luxury products, according to the
journal.  Getty was accused of selling the images without
authorization and without crediting the designers, the journal
reported.  The stock photo agency told the journal that while it will
appeal the court ruling, it has now sent its contributors a list
of objects that can’t be featured in licensed content.  For copyright news, click here.  Trade Secrets/Industrial Espionage  Dice Corp.’s Trade Secrets Hearing Against Bold Set for Jan. 31  Dice Corp. ’s trade-secrets case against  Bold Technologies
Ltd.  of  Colorado  Springs, Colorado, is in the active motions
stage and a hearing is set for Jan. 31 on Dice’s opposition to
Bold’s request for dismissal.  Dice, a maker of central station automation platforms for
security monitoring systems, sued Bold in federal court in  Bay
City ,  Michigan , in August, claiming one of its ex-employees
transferred proprietary software from its servers to Bold.  The software cost more than $5 million to develop, Bay
County, Michigan-based Dice said in its pleadings. Bold has been
unjustly enriched by the actions of the former Dice employee,
according to court papers.  In November, the parties stipulated to the dismissal of
some elements in the case, including the unjust-enrichment
claim.  Bold then filed papers Dec. 19 seeking dismissal of Dice’s
claim for violations of the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act, saying
Dice didn’t state a claim the court could redress.  Dice said in a Dec. 27 filing that the damages assessment
and remedial activities it had to undertake after the software
was allegedly transferred was enough of a loss for the law to be
applicable.  U.S. District Judge Thomas L. Ludington will hold a hearing
on these motions Jan. 31.  The case is Dice Corp. v. Bold Technologies Ltd. 11-
cv-13578, U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Michigan (Bay
City).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Victoria Slind-Flor in  San Francisco  at 
 vslindflor@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  