-- EFG-Hermes Is Cutting Cost as Arab Stocks Drop After Revolts
-- B y   A l a a   S h a h i n e
-- 2012-01-26T10:32:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/efg-hermes-is-cutting-cost-as-arab-stocks-drop-after-revolts.html
EFG-Hermes Holding SAE (HRHO) , the biggest
publicly traded Arab investment bank, said it is cutting costs
to cope with a decline in stock markets after popular revolts
toppled governments in the region.  “We are adopting a very aggressive cost-reduction plan,”
Chief Executive Officer Yasser El-Mallawany said in an interview
yesterday in Davos,  Switzerland  at the  World Economic Forum .
“We should see a serious impact partially in 2012, but mostly
in 2013, on costs,” without hurting the firm’s biggest revenue
sources, he said.  Egypt ’s EGX 30 Index slumped 49 percent last year after the
ouster of President  Hosni Mubarak . Third-quarter profit at EFG-
Hermes plunged 64 percent to 32 million Egyptian pounds ($5.3
million) as  investment-banking  income declined. Revenue at the
investment bank slumped 38 percent to 150 million pounds and
group revenue fell 20 percent to 396 million pounds.  Egyptian stocks may rebound this year after the country
elected its first parliament since the uprising, El-Mallawany
said. The EGX 30 has gained 21 percent this month and  EFG-Hermes (HRHO) 
has climbed 13 percent.  EFG-Hermes also operates in  Saudi Arabia  and the United
Arab Emirates, the two-biggest Arab economies. EFG acquired 65
percent of Lebanese commercial bank Credit Libanais SAL in 2010
to expand beyond investment banking.  2009 Debt Crisis  The commercial bank contributed 62 percent of EFG-Hermes’s
third-quarter revenue as income from brokerage and investment-
banking services declined. In  Dubai (DFMGI) , the Middle East’s business
hub that escaped the unrest, the benchmark DFM General Index
dropped on Jan. 16 to the lowest since May 2004 as the real-
estate and financial industry in the Persian Gulf emirate
struggled to recover from a 2009 debt crisis.  EFG-Hermes is “not letting people go,” El-Mallawany said.
Instead, executives at the investment bank have taken a
“discretionary” pay cut of about 40 percent, he said.  A turnaround for the investment bank and Arab markets can
happen once Saudi Arabia, the world’s top oil exporter, opens
its stock market to foreign investors, El-Mallawany said. The
kingdom’s Capital Market Authority is in talks with
international banks to make the nation’s stock exchange
accessible to foreign investors early next year, three bankers
familiar with the matter said in October.  “This is going to be transformational for Arab markets and
EFG as well,” El-Mallawany said. “I am ready. I just need the
ignition. I have a sales team, I have offices, I have
everything. I just need to press the button.”  The investment bank has a “good pipeline” of mergers and
acquisitions in the  Middle East  and North Africa in industries
such as food, petrochemicals and pharmaceuticals, El-Mallawany
said. Still, executing deals has become more challenging because
the “price gap” between both sides of each transaction is
widening, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alaa Shahine in Dubai at 
 asalha@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
John Fraher at 
 jfraher@bloomberg.net ;
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  