-- Stocks Climb as New Year Boosts Melco Premium: China Overnight
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-26T23:06:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/melco-crown-s-u-s-premium-to-its-hong-kong-shares-widens-china-overnight.html
Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL) 
climbed in New York, pushing the premium over its Hong Kong
shares to the widest in two weeks, on speculation New Year
holiday gambling will drive  Macau  casino revenue to a record.
Most  Chinese stocks  in the U.S. rose.  The  Bloomberg China-US 55 Index  of the most-traded Chinese
equities in the U.S. slipped 0.2 percent to 102.55 yesterday in
New York, as 28 stocks rose and 26 fell. Casino operator Melco
Crown surged to a three-month high, and  LDK Solar Co. (LDK)  led gains
in solar-panel makers after German lawmakers failed to agree on
laws aimed at limiting installations.  An influx of gamblers to Macau over this week’s Chinese
Lunar New Year holiday probably pushed revenue “above
consensus,”  David Bain , managing director at Sterne Agee &
Leach Inc. in  Woodland Hills ,  California , said by phone
yesterday. “An all-time record is possible.”  More spending from Chinese tourists boosted casino revenue
in Macau, the world’s largest hub for gambling and the only
place in  China  where it is legal, by 25 percent in December to
23.6 billion patacas ($3 billion), according to data from
Macau’s Gaming Inspection and Coordination Bureau. Union Gaming
Group LLC said in a Jan. 25 report that revenue this month may
break the October record of 26.9 billion patacas.  Melco Crown’s American depositary receipts jumped 5 percent
to $11.86 in New York, the highest level since Oct. 28. The ADRs
traded at a 4.5 percent  premium  over the company’s  Hong Kong 
stock, the most since Jan. 10. Melco Crown shares started
trading in Hong Kong on Dec. 7.  Table Occupancy  Table occupancy in Macau’s casinos has been “very high”
since the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday started on Jan. 23 and
visits are expected to continue to grow through to the end of
this week, when the break ends, Union Gaming analyst Grant Govertsen wrote in the report.  Sterne Agee’s Bain reiterated his recommendation to “buy”
Melco Crown yesterday and set a 12-month price target of $21.50.  The  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index  dropped 0.6 percent to
1,318.43, reversing earlier gains, after a Commerce Department
report showed sales of new U.S. homes unexpectedly fell in
December for the first time in four months, capping the slowest
year on record for builders.  The  iShares FTSE China 25 Index Fund , the biggest Chinese
exchange-traded fund in the U.S., slid 0.6 percent to $39.18,
snapping a seven-day advance.  Solar Shares  Xinyu, south-central China-based LDK, China’s second-
largest solar maker, advanced 4.3 percent, the most in two
weeks, to $4.65 in New York, after surging as much as 9.2
percent.  Suntech Power Holdings Ltd. (STP) , the largest, climbed for a
second day, adding 3.2 percent to $3.24.  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  added
1.8 percent to $8.08.  A proposal backed by  Germany ’s Economy Minister Philipp Roesler to limit total installations of solar panels in the
country and introduce a one-time cut in subsidies of about 35
percent didn’t get the backing of both parties in Chancellor
Angela Merkel’s coalition.  Germany installed a record 7.5 gigawatts last year, more
than double the government’s target, making the nation the
world’s largest market for the technology. Solar installations
in China may reach 4,000 megawatts this year, Zhenrong Shi,
Suntech’s chief executive officer said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Davos on Jan. 25.  Sina Corp. (SINA) , provider of the Twitter-like service in China,
sank 3 percent to $62.39, extending a four-day decline. Wallace
Cheung, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG,
reiterated a “neutral” rating on the company, maintaining a
price goal of $63.  Hang Seng  Hong Kong stocks advanced yesterday in their first trading
day after the three-day New Year break. The  Hang Seng Index (HSI) 
gained 1.6 percent to 20,439.14, the highest close since Sept.
1. The gauge has climbed 11 percent this month.  Mainland Chinese markets are closed all of this week for
the holiday.  Concern that “China is going to implode and have a hard
landing are totally overblown,”  Stephen Roach , non-executive
chairman of Morgan Stanley  Asia , said in a Bloomberg Television
interview in Davos,  Switzerland . “They have ample discretion to
ease monetary policy and fiscal policy should they need to,” he
said, predicting 8.5 percent growth for China this year.  Cash Injection  The People’s Bank of China, which lowered banks’ reserve
requirement ratios for the first time since 2008 last month,
hasn’t moved the nation’s 6.56 percent lending rate since July.
The central bank injected $353 billion yuan ($55.7 billion) into
the market last week through open-market operations and is
allowing the five biggest banks to boost first-quarter lending,
people with knowledge of the matter said.  Chinese  manufacturing  contracted in January for the second
time in three months, according to the median estimate of six
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg before the purchasing managers’
index’s release on Feb. 1.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in  New York  at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  