-- Melco Jumps to Three-Month High on New Year Revenue
-- B y   B e l i n d a   C a o
-- 2012-01-31T19:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/melco-jumps-to-three-month-high-as-new-year-gamblers-boost-macau-revenue.html
(Corrects story published on Jan. 26 to show venture is
between Lawrence Ho and  James Packer .)  Melco Crown Entertainment Ltd. (MPEL)  rose
to the highest level in almost three months in U.S. trading
after gambling stock analysts Union Gaming Group LLC said
revenue at  Macau  casinos may exceed a record this month.  American depositary receipts of Melco Crown, a casino
venture between billionaires Lawrence Ho and James Packer,
jumped 6.8 percent to $12.06 by 12:17 p.m. in  New York , after
earlier climbing as much as 7.9 percent to $12.18, the highest
intraday level since Oct. 28. The ADRs are trading at a 5.8
percent  premium  over its Hong Kong stock, the widest since Melco
Crown shares started trading in the city on Dec. 8.  Analyst Grant Govertsen at Union Gaming, based in  Las Vegas 
and Macau, said yesterday that revenue in the only Chinese city
where public gambling is allowed may break the October record of
26.9 billion patacas ($3.4 billion) this month. Melco Crown has
approached banks to help finance its Studio City project in
Macau, the world’s biggest gambling hub, four people familiar
with the matter said last week.  Table occupancy in Macau’s casinos has been “very high”
since the Chinese Lunar New Year holiday started on Jan. 23 and
visits are expected to continue to grow through to the end of
this week, when the break ends, Govertsen wrote in a research
report.  David Bain , an analyst at Sterne Agee & Leach Inc. in
 Woodland Hills , California, reiterated his “buy”
 recommendation  on Melco Crown today, setting a 12-month price
target of $21.50. The company is valued at about eight times its
earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortization,
compared with 11.9 times for Wynn Resorts Ltd.’s China unit and
12.5 for the Macau subsidiary of Las Vegas Sands Corp., Bain
wrote in the report.  Melco Crown’s shares gained 2.6 percent today in Hong Kong
to HK$29.35, the equivalent of $3.78 per share, as the city’s
stock market opened after the three-day New Year break.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Belinda Cao in New York at 
 lcao4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Emma O’Brien at 
 eobrien6@bloomberg.net  