-- Emerging-Market Stocks Rise to Five-Month High After U.S. Fed Rate Pledge
-- B y   W e i y i   L i m   a n d   Z a c h a r y   T r a c e r
-- 2012-01-26T21:55:40Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/emerging-market-stocks-rise-to-three-month-high-after-u-s-fed-rate-pledge.html
Emerging-market stocks rose, driving
the benchmark index to the highest level in almost five months,
after the  Federal Reserve  signaled it will keep  interest rates 
low through 2014 and U.S. economic data showed consumers and
businesses are spending.  The MSCI Emerging Markets Index gained 1.5 percent to
1,014.98 at the close in New York, the highest since Sept. 2.
Brazil’s Bovespa index gained for an eighth day, the longest
winning streak in 18 months. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises
Index (HSCEI)  climbed 2.4 percent as it traded for the first time this
week following Lunar New Year holidays. The  ISE National 100
Index  surged 3.7 percent in Istanbul.  The Conference Board’s index of U.S. leading indicators
rose in December for a third month, indicating growth will
persist in the world’s largest economy. The Fed said yesterday
it sees “exceptionally low” interest rates through 2014,
having previously pledged to refrain from raising borrowing
costs until at least the middle of 2013.  “For the first quarter, we are going to see the
continuation of this rally in risky assets,” Hans Goetti, the
Singapore-based chief investment officer at Finaport Investment
Intelligence, said in a Bloomberg Television interview today.
“The markets are looking for monetary easing by central banks
which will be supportive of risky assets.”  Emerging-market stocks have gained 11 percent this year,
beating the  MSCI World Index (MXWO)  of developed shares, which is up
5.8 percent. The developing-nation gauge trades for 10.2 times
earnings, compared to a 12.1 multiple for developed markets.  Banks Jump  Negotiators returned to Athens to continue talks on a debt
swap to lower Greek borrowing cost after European finance
ministers insisted bondholders take bigger losses on Greek debt.  Banks led gains among emerging-market stocks.  Yapi & Kredi
Bankasi AS , the Turkish bank part-owned by Italy’s UniCredit
SpA, jumped 6.5 percent.  OTP Bank Nyrt. (OTP) , Hungary’s largest
lender, increased 7.3 percent, helping the  BUX Index (BUX)  gain 2.6
percent.  The Bovespa stock index rose 0.7 percent in  Sao Paulo  after
Brazilian policy makers signaled they may cut the benchmark
lending rate to below 10 percent. Real-estate company  MRV
Engenharia & Participacoes SA  rose 5.3 percent and homebuilder
 Gafisa SA (GFSA3)  gained 4.7 percent.  Brazil ’s central bank said there is a “high” chance that
its benchmark rate will drop below 10 percent. The bank’s board
voted last week to reduce the rate to 10.5 percent.  Twenty of 25 emerging-market currencies tracked by
Bloomberg advanced against the dollar. The Russian ruble gained
1.6 percent and  South Africa ’s rand rose 0.9 percent.  The extra  yield  investors demand to own emerging-market
debt instead of  U.S. Treasuries  was unchanged at 407 basis
points, or 4.07 percentage points, according to  JPMorgan Chase &
Co. ’s EMBI Global Index.  Markets in  China ,  India  and  Taiwan  were shut today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Weiyi Lim in Singapore at 
 wlim26@bloomberg.net ;
Zachary Tracer in  New York  at 
 ztracer1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  