-- Ener1, Parent of U.S. Subsidized Battery Unit, Seeks Bankruptcy
-- B y   P h i l   M i l f o r d   a n d   D a w n   M c C a r t y
-- 2012-01-27T04:41:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/ener1-electric-car-battery-maker-seeks-chapter-11-bankruptcy-protection.html
Ener1 Inc. (HEVV) , which owns a company
that received a $118 million U.S. Energy Department grant to
make electric-car batteries, filed for  bankruptcy protection 
after defaulting on bond debt amid Asian competition.  The company listed assets of $73.9 million and debt of
$90.5 million as of Dec. 31 in Chapter 11 papers filed today in
U.S. Bankruptcy Court in  Manhattan . Ener1 has been affected by
competing battery developers in  China  and  South Korea , “which
generally have a lower cost manufacturing base” and lower labor
and raw material costs, interim Chief Executive Officer Alex Sorokin said in the petition.  Ener1, based in New York, makes  lithium-ion batteries  for
plug-in electric cars, which were scrutinized by federal auto-
safety officials after a  General Motors Co. (GM)  Chevrolet Volt
caught fire, people familiar with the probe said in November. A
two-month federal safety investigation cleared the Volt of
danger, and GM is beginning a marketing effort to tout the car
as safe and innovative.  Under President  Barack Obama ’s economic stimulus package,
the Energy Department awarded grants in an attempt to create a
U.S. electric-car industry. Ener1’s EnerDel unit, based in
Indianapolis, was the grant recipient and has received about $55
million of its grant so far.  ‘Has Merit’  “While it’s unfortunate that Ener1, the parent company,
has entered a restructuring process,” the investment of
“private capital demonstrates that the technology has merit,”
Jen Stutsman, a spokeswoman for the Energy Department, said in
an e-mail. “The restructuring is not expected to impact
EnerDel’s operations and the company has made clear that they do
not expect to reduce employment at the site.”  Ener1’s grant application received bipartisan support from
Indiana lawmakers, and the company got a $6.5 million Energy
Department advanced-battery grant and a $4 million Defense
Department research and development contract under the George W. Bush administration.  Ener1’s bankruptcy follows the failure of at least two U.S.
government-backed renewable energy companies. Solar panel maker
Solyndra LLC and energy storage company  Beacon Power Corp (BCONQ) . filed
for bankruptcy after receiving government loan guarantees.  Beacon, Solyndra  Beacon, based in Tyngsboro,  Massachusetts , sought Chapter
11 protection on Oct. 30 in Delaware, listing assets of $72
million and debt totaling $47 million, including $39.1 million
owed on a government-guaranteed loan. Beacon built a $69 million
facility with 20 megawatts of balancing capacity in Stephentown,
 New York , funded mostly by a U.S. Energy Department loan. The
company is set to auction assets next month.  Solyndra, which received $535 million in government loan
guarantees, is proceeding with court-approved auctions of its
core assets after failing to draw any offers to continue
operating the company.  Solyndra, based in Fremont,  California , sought Chapter 11
protection Sept. 6. Two days later its offices were raided by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and it faces a probe by
Republicans in Congress over the federal loan guarantee it used
to build a $733 million factory. The solar-panel maker listed
about $854.1 million in assets and about $867.1 million in debt
in court papers filed Oct. 31.  Obama Speech  Republicans also have questioned whether political
favoritism may have played a role in awarding the government
loan guarantee because of Solyndra’s ties to an Obama
fundraiser.  “Payoffs on these public investments don’t always come
right away,” Obama said in his State of the Union speech on
Jan. 24. “Some technologies don’t pan out; some companies fail.
But I will not walk away from the promise of clean energy.”  Obama added that he would not “cede the wind or solar or
battery industry to China or  Germany  because we refuse to make
the same commitment here.”  Among Ener1’s largest unsecured creditors are Liberty
Harbor Special Investments of New York, holders of $39.4 million
in senior notes;  Itochu Corp. (8001)  of  Tokyo , holders of $10.2 million
in senior convertible notes; and Goldman Sachs Palmetto State
Credit Union of  Florida , holders of $5.63 million in senior
notes, according to court papers.  45 Days  Ener1 expects to complete the restructuring process in
about 45 days. The company filed a reorganization plan, which
was accepted by the required majorities of creditors, and
supporting documents with its Chapter 11 petition.  Under the plan, Ener1 may obtain as much as $81 million of
new capital and reduce existing debt while maintaining
operations, according to court papers. None of Ener1’s foreign
or domestic subsidiaries sought protection.  Claims of all unsecured creditors will be paid in full
under the plan, Ener1 said. All existing common stock will be
canceled and new preferred stock will be issued to the provider
of funding for the bankruptcy case. Holders of long-term debt
will exchange their claims for cash, a new  term loan  and new
common stock, court papers show.  Ener1 fell 73 percent to 2.6 cents in over-the-counter
trading yesterday in New York.  Reed Smith LLP (1157L)  is Ener1’s legal adviser and its financial
adviser is Houlihan Lokey Capital Inc.  The case is In re Ener1 Inc., 12-10299,  U.S. Bankruptcy
Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Phil Milford in Wilmington, Delaware at 
 pmilford@bloomberg.net ;
Dawn McCarty in Wilmington at 
 dmccarty@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net  