-- Hennes & Mauritz Profit Drops for a Fifth Quarter in ‘Challenging Market’
-- B y   A r m o r e l   K e n n a
-- 2012-01-26T14:58:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/hennes-mauritz-profit-drops-for-a-fifth-quarter-in-challenging-market-.html
Hennes & Mauritz AB ,  Europe ’s
second-largest clothing retailer, reported a fifth consecutive
drop in quarterly profit as the cost of making garments
increased and the company stepped up discounting.  Net income slipped 2.4 percent to 5.36 billion kronor ($797
million) in the three months ended Nov. 30, Stockholm-based H&M
said in a statement today. The average estimate was 5.37 billion
kronor, according to a Bloomberg survey of 14 analysts.  H&M, which sells dresses for less than $12.95, said the
macroeconomic climate will remain “tough” in many markets
during 2012. Higher labor costs in Asia weighed on profit at the
company, which described the situation in markets it sources
from as “challenging.”  “These figures are unlikely to reassure investors that
H&M’s repositioning is currently resulting in a more stable
operating performance,” Assad Malic, a Credit Suisse analyst in
 London , said in a note. He has a “neutral” rating on H&M.  The shares  rose 0.3 percent to 224.9 kronor at 3:56 p.m.
after falling as much as 2.1 percent. They’ve risen 1.7 percent
this year, compared with a 7.5 percent gain for larger
competitor  Inditex SA (ITX) , owner of the Zara chain.  H&M’s  gross margin  narrowed to 61.9 percent of sales in the
quarter from 63.2 percent a year earlier. Profitability was
affected by record cotton prices in the first half of last year
and increased discounting, according to  Anne Critchlow , an
analyst at  Societe Generale  in London.  More Markdowns  “H&M has strengthened its price position over the past 18
months, which has reduced the gross margin,” Critchlow said.  The number of markdowns in the first quarter of this year
will be higher than a year earlier because of an increase in
inventory, the retailer said. Inventory rose 20 percent as of
Nov. 30 and was slightly higher than planned, it said.  H&M doesn’t envisage big changes to sourcing in  Asia , Chief
Executive Officer Karl-Johan Persson said at a press conference
in  Stockholm . The company obtains about 75 percent of products
from the region, compared with 35 percent for Inditex.  Fourth-quarter net income only met estimates because of a
lower-than-anticipated tax rate of 21 percent, according to
Caroline Gulliver, an analyst at Espirito Santo Investment Bank.
Pretax profit fell 5.2 percent to 6.8 billion kronor, missing
the 7.22 billion-kronor average  estimate  of 16 analysts.  Versace Collection  Revenue at stores open at least a year has risen about 3
percent so far in January, Societe Generale’s Critchlow said,
based on total revenue figures reported by the company today.
December comparable sales climbed 4 percent.  H&M always plans for positive like-for-like sales, Finance
Director Nils Vinge said on a conference call.  The Swedish retailer, which is selling a collection by
Italian fashion house Gianni Versace SpA, last month reported a
3 percent decline in fourth-quarter same-store sales as shoppers
delayed buying winter garments amid mild weather.  H&M plans to open 275 stores this year and sees expansion
prospects in France, Italy and  Germany , its biggest market. The
retailer will open in  Mexico  and start U.S. online sales in the
fall. It opened 266 stores last year, bringing the total to
about 2,500. The expansion was led by  China , where the company
opened 35 stores, and it will add more than that this year,
Vinge said on the call.  The retailer left its full-year  dividend  unchanged at 9.50
kronor a share.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Armorel Kenna in Milan at 
 akenna@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at 
 smarley1@bloomberg.net  