-- Tepco Rises After Report on State-Fund Injection
-- B y   T s u y o s h i   I n a j i m a
-- 2012-01-26T02:19:32Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/tepco-rises-after-report-on-state-fund-injection.html
Tokyo Electric Power Co. (9501)  surged in
Tokyo trading after a report said the company will accept 1
trillion yen ($13 billion) as part of an effective government
takeover to save it from collapse after the Fukushima disaster.  Tepco rose as much as 12 percent, the most since Jan. 10,
to 227 yen and was at 219 yen at 10:12 a.m. It’s the biggest
gain among members of the Nikkei 225 Stock Average. Tepco is
down about 90 percent since the day before an earthquake and
tsunami caused reactor meltdowns at its Fukushima Dai-Ichi plant
last March, wiping almost $40 billion off its market value.  “Tepco’s management has probably realized the company
can’t carry on unless it accepts the government’s capital,”
Takashi Aoki, who helps manage 120 billion yen at Tokyo-based
Mizuho Asset Management Co., said by phone today. The utility’s
management may have come to that realization after criticism
from the government over its plans to raise electricity rates
for households to ensure its survival, Aoki said.  The utility is in talks with the government-backed Nuclear
Damage Liability Facilitation Fund on the size of the stake it
will take, the Yomiuri newspaper reported today, citing
unidentified people familiar with the matter. Tepco wants to
keep the fund’s voting rights below 50 percent by using
preferred shares while the government aims to obtain more than
two-thirds, the Yomiuri said.  Radiation Release  The utility is relying on handouts from the government,
which estimates Tepco faces 4.5 trillion yen in compensation
claims by March next year. The radiation release from the
meltdowns, the worst since Chernobyl, forced 160,000 people to
flee their homes and damaged farming, forestry and fisheries
businesses.  The compensation fund plans to inject 1 trillion yen in
capital into Tepco during the year ending March 2013, the Nikkei
newspaper reported today, without saying how it got the
information. Banks will offer another 1 trillion yen in loans in
June, the report said.  Tepco may return to profit in the year ending March 2014
and resume bond sales at a later date, the Nikkei reported. The
estimates outlined in the plan assume the utility will raise
electricity rates for households by 10 percent in October and
restart reactors at its Kashiwazaki Kariwa nuclear plant after
March next year, the Nikkei said.  Tepco is in talks with three Japanese banks and the
government-backed fund to raise loans, two people with knowledge
of the negotiations said earlier this month. The banks will lend
1 trillion yen to Tepco and 1 trillion yen to the fund, which
would use the money to buy the utility’s shares, the people
said.  The government is assuming the effective nationalization of
the utility may last for as long as 10 years, the Asahi
newspaper reported today, without citing anyone.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tsuyoshi Inajima in Tokyo at 
 tinajima@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Langan at 
 plangan@bloomberg.net  