-- Less Meat and Potatoes in School Meals Rankle Industry Groups
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   A r m o u r
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/less-meat-and-potatoes-in-school-meals-rankle-industry-groups.html
An Obama administration effort to
add more fruits, vegetables and whole grains to U.S. school
meals may limit educators’ ability to deliver a balanced diet to
32 million children, meat- and potato-industry groups said.  The first major overhaul of the school meal standards in 15
years, unveiled yesterday, came at the expense of some
agriculture interests, by limiting potatoes at breakfast and
dropping a requirement that meat be served at the morning meal.  The final rule from the U.S Department of Agriculture will
cost $3.2 billion over five years, less than half of what was
initially proposed by the administration. The draft was revised
after Congress in November halted changes the administration
sought to mandate nationwide, including reducing the amount of
potatoes and increasing the amount of tomato paste that
qualifies as a vegetable.  “The rule’s prescriptive nature in promoting certain
groups of vegetables over others will increase costs while
handcuffing local schools’ abilities to meet USDA’s nutrition,
caloric, fat and sodium requirements,” said John Keeling,
executive vice president and CEO of the Washington-based
National Potato Council, in a statement. He said his group would
work with food-service professionals as they evaluate the
changes, which take effect July 1.  The regulations marked a victory for  ConAgra Foods Inc. (CAG) ,
maker of Hunt’s tomato products based in Omaha,  Nebraska , and
Schwan Food Co., which holds 70 percent of the market for pizza
in the $9.5 billion school food-service industry. The companies
and food-industry groups enlisted lawmakers such as Senator
 Susan Collins , a Republican of  Maine , to fight the draft rule.  Limiting Fries  “The potato and French fry industry should be happy,”
said Margo Wootan, nutrition policy director at the Washington-
based Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer
advocacy group. “There should be a limit on fries and hash
browns in schools, and they got Congress to step in and prevent
USDA from doing what the science shows is best for kids.”  The rule seeks to improve children’s health and curb
obesity. That means more fruit, vegetables and foods rich in
whole grains: chef salad and baked sweet potato fries instead of
pizza sticks and Tater Tots.  Schools will have to offer minimum amounts of all vegetable
types at lunch during a week, reducing salt and fat, and
following calorie limits by age. The amount of fruit and
vegetables will be doubled.  The Agriculture Department pared the cost of the draft
proposal from $6.8 billion over five years in large part by
dropping a daily requirement for meat or a meat alternative with
breakfast. The industry is pointing out that its products are
nutritious too.  Defending Meat  “Protein is very important for the health of growing
children, and meat is a high quality source of protein,” Jeremy
Russell, spokesman for the Oakland, California-based  National
Meat Association , which represents packers, processors and
others in the industry.  The variety of beef options available allows schools to
incorporate lean beef into their menu plans on any budget, said
Kristina Butts, director of legislative affairs for the  National
Cattlemen’s Beef Association , in a statement.  Dropping meat at breakfast won’t impair nutrition because
children get plenty of protein, said Wootan in an e-mail.
Breakfast meats are often processed and fatty, she said.  The cost to school districts of buying healthier fare and
training food preparation staff will be offset in part by an
increase of 6 cents in meal reimbursement and higher prices for
ala cart items sold by schools, said Kevin Concannon, USDA
undersecretary for food, nutrition and consumer services, in a
telephone call with reporters.  Teacher’s View  It’s a welcome change for some teachers such as Christina
Cronin from Fremont Junior High School in Mesa,  Arizona .  “I think we are moving in the right direction by offering
more nutritious choices,” Cronin, 40, said in an e-mail. “I
know that each year it seems I have more and more students who
are overweight and could benefit from better food choices.”  The rules will be phased in gradually while still mandating
changes. Pizza will be whole wheat, and whole wheat spaghetti
will replace hot dogs and pizza sticks, according to a before-
and-after menu from the USDA.  “The rule, from our perspective, shows the USDA took into
account the 120,000 to 130,000 comments they reviewed,” Corey
Henry, a spokesman for the McLean, Virginia-based  American
Frozen Food Institute , said in an interview. “One issue many
had flagged was the original $7 billion price tag it would
saddle schools with. It’s a welcome change.”  Improve Health  It also should benefit children’s health, according to
medical groups. A third of U.S. children are overweight or
obese, contributing to $3 billion in annual medical costs,
according to the Obama administration.  Obesity among school-age children and adolescents has
tripled over the past three decades, according to the nonprofit
 American Cancer Society Cancer Action Network .  “To reverse these statistics, it is vitally important that
these new nutritional standards become part of a comprehensive
national strategy focused on ensuring the health of today’s
children,” John R. Seffrin, CEO of the network and the  American
Cancer Society , said in a statement.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Armour in Washington at 
 sarmour@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Adriel Bettelheim at 
 abettelheim@bloomberg.net ; 