-- Ethel Kennedy Recalls Betting on Horses, Tragedies: Interview
-- B y   G r e g   E v a n s
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/ethel-kennedy-recalls-betting-on-horses-tragedies-interview.html
Directors at the  Sundance Film
Festival  often thank family members in the audience. It’s safe to
say that  Rory Kennedy  -- the youngest child of Robert and Ethel Skakel Kennedy, born after her father’s assassination in 1968 --
had the longest list. For the premiere screening of “Ethel,” her
new documentary, more than 20 Kennedys and in-laws showed up,
including the subject.  An affectionate portrait of the famously private widow,
“Ethel” juxtaposes interviews with the matriarch and Rory’s eight
siblings with archival footage and family movies.  Among the film’s highlights: Ethel Skakel and  Robert
Kennedy , both baby-faced, on a ski trip in 1945; Kennedy squaring
off against foe Jimmy Hoffa during Senate hearings on labor
racketeering as a staunch Ethel looks on; and the Kennedy
children recalling the good days -- banister-sliding at the White
House -- and the tragic.  “It was like Daddy lost both arms,” says Rory’s sister
Kathleen about the six months “of blackness” that followed the
assassination of  John F. Kennedy .  HBO (TWX)  will present the film this summer. I spoke at Sundance
with Rory Kennedy, whose films include  “Ghosts of Abu Ghraib”  and
 “Indian Point: Imagining the Unimaginable.”   Convincing Mom  Evans: How did you decide to finally do a film about your
family, and how did you convince your mother to participate?  Kennedy: I’d considered doing a documentary about my mother
before, but I knew that she wasn’t comfortable with it and I
wasn’t really comfortable either. But Sheila Nevins (president of
documentary and family programming at  HBO ) kept talking to me
about it and finally I said fine, I’ll ask my mother. And she
said yes.  Evans: Any idea why she agreed?  Kennedy: I think she felt that it was important. She
appreciates what she’s lived through and gone through and felt
that she had something to add. And I thought if she can do it, I
can do it.  Evans: What did she feel was important to say now?  Kennedy: She has lived through so many extraordinary
historical events and was on the front lines every step of the
way. Selfishly, my interest was for my children and my children’s
children, and being able to help capture my mother for them --
who she is and what she stood for.  Choking Up  Evans: There’s a remarkable moment when you ask her about
your father’s death. She gets choked up, and it’s the only time
in the film when she says, “Talk about something else.”  Kennedy: Part of how my mother has gotten through so much
tragedy in life is her inner strength. Religion helped too, but
she is not someone who talks about or reflects on difficult
moments. So I think that moment in the film speaks volumes about
who she is.  Evans: What did you discover about your family?  Kennedy: I didn’t know my mother used to bet on the horses
in college. And I had never heard the story of my father sliding
down the banister at the White House the day Jack and Jackie
moved in.  Evans: You were born after your father died. Is it a stretch
to say you got to know him through this film?  Kennedy: I’d seen a lot of the documentaries about my
father, but when I went through the raw footage there was just
something else that came through. My mother, too. I think they’re
very genuine people, and how they lived their lives was very
consistent with their public face.  Home Movies  Evans: The early parts of the film have the sweet, happy
feel of a family’s home movies. But we, the audience, know the
terrible moment of your father’s assassination is coming. Did you
feel that sense of dread too?  Kennedy: Yes, it was hard. A lot of the documentaries I’ve
done, I’ve had to watch really horrible footage over and over,
like in “Ghosts of  Abu Ghraib ,” but eventually you get used to
it. I never had that sensation of getting used to it in making
this film. It always felt raw and upsetting to me.  ( Greg Evans  is a critic for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. Opinions expressed are his own.)  To contact the writer on the story:
Greg Evans at  gregeaevans@yahoo.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff in  New York  at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 