-- Metro Finds Cheap Not Enough as Investors Press Chief to Define Strategy
-- B y   J u l i e   C r u z
-- 2012-01-26T23:00:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/metro-finds-cheap-not-enough-as-investors-press-chief-to-define-strategy.html
When  Metro AG (MEO)  (MEO) Chief Executive
Officer Olaf Koch halted talks to sell the Kaufhof department-
store chain this month, he did little to persuade investors they
should buy a stock that’s as cheap as it’s been in three years.  Metro  shares  fell 48 percent last year, the  second-worst 
performance in Germany’s benchmark  DAX Index (DAX) , and trade at 9.7
times reported earnings, the least expensive since March 2009
and below an average of 14.2 for retailers in the Stoxx Europe
600 Index. The valuation alone won’t be enough to win back
investors, said Mark Josefson, an analyst at Silvia Quandt
Research GmbH in Frankfurt.  “Metro’s story is lacking the sex appeal it had prior to
Christmas with the Kaufhof sale put on ice,” Josefson said.
“It’s difficult for me to push Metro at the moment because
being cheap is not good enough.”  Koch, who succeeded  Eckhard Cordes (MEO)  as CEO on Jan. 1, has to
determine whether the Dusseldorf-based company needs to keep
together a compendium of businesses that includes Kaufhof,
Saturn and Media Markt electronics outlets, Real supermarkets
and the Cash & Carry wholesale unit. With Metro’s Shape 2012
cost-saving program expiring this year, the executive also needs
to come up with new financial goals for the retailer.  “Metro is a big dilemma for me at the moment,” said Marc Renaud, who manages about 850 million euros ($1.1 billion) at
 Mandarine Gestion  in  Frankfurt  and is considering selling the
stock, which represents 3.7 percent of his portfolio. “I want
to be reassured that the new CEO has clear goals. Metro is
cheap, but without a clear strategy it becomes a value trap.”  Subject of Debate  Metro said last year that it hasn’t decided whether to sell
the Real chain, which accounts for 17 percent of  sales  and has
been losing market share to competitors including the Aldi and
Lidl discount chains. On Jan. 17, it said that selling  Kaufhof (MEO) 
remains part of its strategy after halting negotiations to
dispose of a business that it has sought to exit since 2008.  The future of the Media-Saturn electronics unit has also
been the subject of debate. Metro said in August that it had no
plan to sell the division after Capital magazine reported that
Media Markt founder and minority shareholder  Erich Kellerhals (MEO) 
was in talks with financial investors to buy a majority stake.  “Koch has two things to do,” said Thomas Effler, an
analyst at WestLB AG in Frankfurt. “On the one hand, he needs
to decide what kind of assets the company wants to focus on and
on the other hand, he has to improve operations.”  Analyst Recommendations  The  consensus analyst recommendation  of 3.36 on a scale of
1 to 5 is the lowest since March 2010, according to Bloomberg
data. Eight analysts recommend selling the stock while 22 advise
holding it and 15 have a “buy” rating. Commerzbank AG cut its
recommendation to “reduce” from “hold” on Jan. 18 because of
“poor expansion momentum” at Cash & Carry.  Mandarine Gestion’s Renaud wants Koch to commit to selling
Kaufhof and to focus on units that are “more oriented towards
emerging-markets,” such as the 728-store Cash & Carry chain.  “I like the concept of Cash & Carry, whose concept is
adapted to countries with low purchasing power,” Renaud said.  Sales at Cash & Carry,  Metro’s biggest unit , rose to 31.2
billion euros in 2011 from 31.1 billion euros the year before,
driven by growth in Russia and  China , Metro said Jan. 17.  The future of the Real supermarket unit is the “main
question” that Koch needs to answer, according to  Robert Greil ,
an analyst at Merck Finck & Co. in Munich.  Media-Saturn Decline  Sales at the unit fell 2.3 percent to 11.2 billion euros in
2011 because of weak non-food revenue and “consumer reticence
in Poland and  Romania ,” Metro said this month.  The 426-store discount retailer “is not really focused in
the non-food sector and clients are not too convinced to go
shopping there,” WestLB’s Effler said.  Koch also needs to address declining sales at Media-Saturn,
where revenue fell 1 percent at local currency rates in 2011.
The Saturn chain started selling electrical goods online in
October, a decade after  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN)  entered the market, and
should be joined this month by Media Markt.  A “transparent” successor to Cordes’s Shape cost-cutting
program is also needed, according to Silvia Quandt’s Josefson.
“One criticism of Shape updates was that there was no way of
investors judging progress from the outside,” he said.  Cordes initiated Shape, a plan aiming at boosting profit by
1.5 billion euros over four years, in 2009. Metro reiterated on
Jan. 17 that  earnings  before interest, taxes and special items
in 2011 were “slightly below” 2010’s 2.4 billion euros.  Investors, recognizing the attraction of the stock’s
valuation, will be looking for an indication of Koch’s plans
when the company reports full-year earnings on March 20.  “We have no holdings so far, but are waiting for a good
opportunity to step in,” said Thilo Mueller, who helps manage
120 million euros at MB Fund Advisory GmbH in Limburg,  Germany .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Cruz in Frankfurt at 
 jcruz6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sara Marley at   smarley1@bloomberg.net  