-- EU Delays Bank Bond Writedown Plan Until Debt Crisis Abates
-- B y   J i m   B r u n s d e n   a n d   C a r o l i n e   C o n n a n
-- 2012-01-27T10:03:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/eu-delays-bank-bond-writedown-plans-until-debt-crisis-abates-barnier-says.html
Michel Barnier , the European Union’s
financial services chief, said he’ll wait until the region is
“past the worst” of its fiscal crisis before unleashing
proposals to write down creditors at failing banks.  “We have to get past the worst of this crisis to present
this proposal at the right moment,” the European Commissioner
said in a Bloomberg Television interview yesterday at the  World
Economic Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland . That may be in “some
weeks, or rather some months.”  Global regulators have called for rules imposing losses on
bank creditors in a bid to prevent lenders being too-big-to-
fail. The Financial Stability Board said so-called bail-in
systems should be put in place for all international banks.  Lenders including Citigroup Inc. and  Goldman Sachs Group
Inc. (GS)  have warned that writedowns for senior bondholders may make
it more expensive for banks to attract funding.  “I want to avoid any misunderstanding,” said Barnier about
his plans designed to prevent taxpayers footing the bill for
bailing out failing banks “in the medium to long term.”  Barnier said that he’s still making up his mind on plans by
 Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1)  and  NYSE Euronext (NRX)  to create the world’s
largest exchange. He said he’s been unable to give his full
attention to the dossier because of an official trip last week
to  Asia .  The commission, the 27-nation EU’s executive arm, will
decide next week whether to back a proposal from the EU’s
antitrust chief,  Joaquin Almunia , to block the deal.  ‘Personal Time’  “It’s a very important decision,” Barnier said. “I need
a bit of personal time to work on this dossier and to make a
judgement.”  Barnier said that he’s considering tougher EU rules for
bank bonuses after criticizing some payouts as “inexplicable.”  One possible idea is a pay ratio designed to limit the
difference between the highest and lowest salaries at lenders,
he said.  Barnier, a former French minister, said that he will also
seek views “in the coming weeks” on possible rules for so-
called shadow banks, and called for leaders at Davos to back a
global financial transactions tax.  ‘Volcker Rule’  Separately, Barnier will next month raise “concerns” with
U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  on how a proposed
ban on commercial banks trading on their own account may
discriminate against European sovereign debt.  Under the proposals for the so-called Volcker rule, trading
in U.S. government bonds would be exempt from the ban and this
carve-out wouldn’t be extended to other nations’ sovereign debt,
said Barnier’s spokeswomanChantal Hughes.  The commissioner will discuss the matter with Geithner
during a trip to the U.S. on Feb. 23-24, Hughes said in an e-
mail.  The commission has set up an EU high-level group to examine
possible measures to change banks’ structure and reign in their
risk taking. The committee’s remit will include examining
whether a version of the Volcker rule should be imposed on EU
leaders, Barnier said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jim Brunsden in Brussels at 
 jbrunsden@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ; 