-- EU May Tap Oil Reserves After Iran Embargo Imposed in July, Oettinger Says
-- B y   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s   a n d   E w a   K r u k o w s k a
-- 2012-01-26T13:33:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/eu-may-use-oil-from-reserves-after-iran-ban-oettinger-says-1-.html
Some European Union countries may
tap their strategic oil reserves after an EU embargo cuts
 Iranian exports  from July, the bloc’s Energy Commissioner
 Guenther Oettinger  said.  “We have enough storage capacities,” Oettinger said in an
interview today at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland . “It is feasible,” he said, referring to the
release of stockpiles.  The 27-nation EU decided three days ago to ban imports of
Iranian oil as of July 1 because of concerns that Iran is
developing nuclear weapons. The five-month phase-in, during
which existing contracts are allowed to continue, is meant to
give member states such as Greece that are relatively dependent
on Iranian crude time to find alternative sources of supply.  EU rules require countries to hold emergency fuel stocks of
at least 90 days of the average daily domestic consumption in
the previous calendar year.  “It’s certainly going to be a factor going forward but
only if countries can’t source alternatives,”  Michael Hewson ,
an analyst at CMC Markets in  London , said by e-mail. “That will
obviously depend on future demand and how many days reserves
 Europe  has, but you have to think that Saudi Arabia might be
able to help in that regard, in the short term probably.”  Oil Reserves  BP Plc Chairman  Carl-Henric Svanberg  said he sees no need
for European countries to tap strategic oil reserves this year.  “Generally the industry, including all the oil-producing
nations, has shown the capability of adjusting for moments of up
and down and I think that’s what you’re going to see this time
as well,” Svanberg said in an interview in Davos.  The bloc’s 25 nations, excluding Romania and Bulgaria, had
total oil reserves at 134.5 million metric tons, or 120 days of
demand, according to  data  compiled on Jan. 12 by the European
Commission, which coordinates the maintenance of emergency
stocks of crude and petroleum products.  Imports of oil from  Iran  account for about five percent of
EU consumption and from 10 percent to 30 percent in the most-
exposed countries, which are Italy, Greece and  Spain , Oettinger
said in the interview.  “We need a clear strategy of solidarity between  oil
companies ” and member states, the EU energy chief said.  Willing to Cooperate  The oil-producing countries that the EU is in talks with
have declared their readiness to cooperate and the bloc is
confident it will secure new sources of supply, an EU official
said earlier this week.  Greece, hit by a debt crisis, is seeking EU assistance to
ensure that any new oil contracts would include terms similar to
those in its existing agreements with Iran, which don’t require
financial guarantees, another EU diplomat said last week on the
condition of anonymity.  Greece  has conformed to its oil-stockholding obligations
under the EU law and these emergency stocks can be released in
the event of supply shortages, Oettinger said in a written
response dated Jan. 16 to questions by a member of the European
Parliament and published on the assembly’s website.  “The oil market is a global market and Greece can receive
supplies from elsewhere,” he said. “In particular Greece has
large refinery facilities and therefore seems well positioned to
switch to alternative suppliers.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jacqueline Simmons in Davos at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net ;
Ewa Krukowska in Brussels at 
 ekrukowska@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at   sev@bloomberg.net ; 