-- Europe-as-Armageddon Perception Easing, Evercore’s Altman Says: Tom Keene
-- B y   L a u r a   M a r c i n e k   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-26T19:13:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/europe-as-armageddon-perception-easing-altman-says-tom-keene.html
Roger Altman , chairman of  Evercore
Partners Inc. (EVR)  and a former U.S. deputy Treasury secretary, said
investors are less concerned that the European debt crisis will
get worse.  “The degree to which the sense of Europe’s being on the
very edge of the cliff and perhaps on the verge of Armageddon
has eased off a lot,” Altman, founder of the New York-based
advisory firm, said today in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene  from Davos,
Switzerland, where he’s attending the World Economic Forum’s
annual meeting. “I’m a little surprised with how much it’s
eased off.”  Europe’s leaders are seeking to contain the debt crisis
that has roiled markets. The currency union has bailed out
 Greece , Portugal and Ireland as the nations’ borrowing costs
spiked. The cost of insuring against default on European
corporate debt fell to the lowest today in five months after the
Federal Reserve signaled plans to keep borrowing costs low
through 2014.  “I’m not suggesting the crisis is over,” Altman said.
“But for the moment it has eased a bit. You obviously see that
in the borrowing costs that, for example, Italy and Spain have
recently realized, and you see it in credit-default swaps
spreads.”  Treasury Department  Altman, 65, who served under President Bill Clinton, said
World Bank President Robert Zoellick would be “a very good
secretary of the Treasury” in a Republican administration
though he’s unlikely to be appointed if Barack Obama is re-
elected.  Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , 50, said he’s
“confident” he won’t be serving a second term under Obama.  “He’s not going to ask me to stay on,” Geithner said
yesterday in a Bloomberg Television interview. “I’m confident
he’ll be president. But I’m also confident he’s going to have
the privilege of having another secretary of the Treasury.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Marcinek in New York at 
 lmarcinek3@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 David Scheer  at 
 dscheer@bloomberg.net . 