-- European Shipowners to Seek U.S. Court Protection, Law Firm Says
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   W i e s e   B o c k m a n n
-- 2012-01-26T16:20:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/european-shipowners-to-seek-u-s-court-protection-law-firm-says.html
European shipowners will
increasingly seek bankruptcy protection in the U.S. in 2012 as
they attempt to retain control of their fleets while negotiating
with lenders, said law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP.  Filing for Chapter 11 protection in U.S. courts means no
receivers are appointed to run a company and reaching agreement
with banks is easier, Gregory Petrick, a partner at the firm,
said at a conference in London today. A company needs agreement
from half the creditors representing two-thirds of its
borrowings to ratify any debt reorganization arising from a
Chapter 11 filing, he said.  “Those advantages owners have discovered, and we expect to
see increasing moves to Chapter 11 filings for European-based
shipping companies,” Petrick said. “It gives the owner
breathing room to ride out the cycle.”  Owners are seeking to avoid insolvency as a global excess
of dry-bulk vessels, tankers and  container ships  cuts earnings
and drains cash flows. U.S. oil-tanker operator General Maritime
Corp. filed for bankruptcy protection in November and  Frontline
Ltd. (FRO) , controlled by billionaire  John Fredriksen , split itself in
two after saying that month it was close to running out of
money. Omega Navigation Enterprises Inc. and Marco Polo Seatrade
BV, managed from Greece and Amsterdam respectively, sought
Chapter 11 protection last year.  Rising Pressure  More than 13 shipping companies worldwide reorganized
operations in the U.S. in the past 18 months or filed for
bankruptcy protection, Petrick said. Financial pressures on
shipowners are rising, he said.  “Owners are in love with their ships and they give up
control very reluctantly, but if you face the cold facts of the
market, you can achieve an out-of-court settlement,” Petrick
said. “It’s a much better resolution than filing in court.”  Most lenders and shipowners conclude reorganization accords
privately and such agreements through courts are the “tip of
the iceberg,” Tony Rice, a London-based partner at law firm
Holman Fenwick Willan LLP, said at the conference.  European banks that fund about 75 percent of the global
shipping-loan portfolio of more than $500 billion have less
control in U.S. bankruptcy cases, Petrick said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Wiese Bockmann in  London  at 
 mwiesebockma@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  