-- Europe in ‘Protracted’ Slump That Will Shift Debate, Roach Says
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2012-01-26T09:08:19Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/europe-in-protracted-slump-that-will-shift-debate-roach-says.html
The euro area is in a “fairly
protracted recession” and European leaders will shift their
focus toward fighting rising unemployment, said  Stephen Roach ,
non-executive chairman of Morgan Stanley  Asia .  “Grappling with the crisis is definitely understandable,
but I think the debate is going to shift to fighting recession
in  Europe ,” Roach said in an interview today with Bloomberg
Television’s Maryam Nemazee in Davos, Switzerland. “Europe is
in a recession now, and it’s likely to be a fairly protracted
one with a very limited recovery in the years ahead.”  Talks on a debt swap to avert a Greek default resume today
as international policy makers squabble over the mounting cost
of the rescue. The financial turmoil led the  International
Monetary Fund  to cut its forecast for global economic growth and
it also forecast a recession in the euro area.  “As we grapple with all these special measures to shore up
bond markets and inject liquidity in the markets, the recession
and rising unemployment will become a greater and greater issue
for European authorities to contend with,” Roach said. “They
don’t seem to be even talking about that right now.”  The IMF said the 17-nation region may enter a “mild
recession” in 2012 as it forecast a 0.5 percent contraction.  Austerity Pressure  HSBC Holdings Plc Chief Global Economist  Stephen King  said
German-driven austerity in Europe risks undermining any chance
of an economic recovery in the region.  “What she’s doing is creating an austerity union and an
austerity union will effectively drive down growth in  Spain ,
 Italy  and so on,” King said, referring to German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel . That “will eventually have a negative effect on
 Germany .”  He said that while the euro area may need a fiscal union it
“also needs to have some growth and there has to be some
tackling of that growth issue.”  Roach said the euro-area debt crisis is not over and policy
makers in advanced economies have limited options in responding
to the financial crisis.  Policy fatigue “is very real,” he said. “European
leaders have had something like 14 crises in the past 24 months,
so every six weeks or so we have to deal with another crisis
with very limited detail on the so-called resolution policies.”  “In the developed world central bankers are out of
ammunition,” he said. “They’ve embarked on these adventurous
unconventional policies of quantitative easing, which have had
no meaningful impact on anything other than stopping markets in
crisis, and I think that’s very worrisome. That’s a big risk for
the world in the years ahead.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  