-- Euro Binges on Snails, Pound Drops Down Drain in Wacky Musical
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2012-01-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/euro-binges-on-snails-pound-drops-down-plughole-in-wacky-currency-musical.html
The euro collapsed last night in
Berlin. To be precise, it simply exploded offstage after eating
too much confit de canard and snails.  So goes the finale of a fun musical fairy tale that is
touring Berlin, Frankfurt and  London  on a shoestring. Euro
boffins will enjoy some of its wackier creations, like a
European currency snake whose body is completely out of kilter.
She yelps as the Italian lira slips out of place in her spine
during the course of the evening.  “EuroCrash! The Musical” transposes the single-currency
story to a deep dark forest. Mark and Gilda can’t find their way
out. They are lured into the gingerbread Euroland house, where
Papa Kohl and Madame Mitterrand run a school of fiscal
discipline attended by some wayward pupils -- personified nation
states like Callum of Ireland and Stavros of  Greece .  The show’s numbers include a chorus praising the virtues of
the Bundesbank and former U.K. Chancellor of the Exchequer
Norman Lamont singing “Our currency’s gone down the plughole”
in the shower. There are jokes about the Bundesbank’s “steady
hand” policy and allusions to  Jean-Claude Trichet ’s
“vigilance” at the  European Central Bank , as well as throwaway
references to former central bankers like Karl Otto Poehl.  The bad guys in the black cowboy hats are the credit-rating
companies. (“I’m Standard, he’s Poor’s/ For a dollar we’re
yours” and “I’m Moody’s, he’s Fitch, It don’t matter which.”)  ‘Told You So’  A British Eurosceptic opens and closes the musical with
commentary. (“I don’t like to crow/ say ‘I told you so’” and
“It was a worthy cause/ With fundamental flaws.”)  The musical’s writer, David Shirreff, is a former Frankfurt
correspondent for The Economist with a taste for Gilbert &
Sullivan. He teamed up with Russell Sarre, an Australian
composer. While the tunes are simple, the lyrics contain some
complex concepts, which may make it hard for non native-speakers
of English to follow.  Shirreff, who says he’s “emotionally a Europhile but
intellectually a Eurosceptic,” wrote the musical at the end of
2010. He hasn’t had to change it much since, apart from adding a
European Union summit scene with the leaders of U.K., Germany
and  France  -- and downgrading the ratings for some of the
countries involved.  “I haven’t given up the day job,” Shirreff said on the
phone from Berlin, where he’s now based for the Economist. The
magazine paid for some of his team’s flights, he said.  New Accents  The six young British actors manage several parts each,
donning new accents as effortlessly as they put on hats. The set
is virtually non-existent -- a projection of a 1-euro coin onto
a screen at the back of the stage and four chairs. The only
musical accompaniment for the singers is a pianist on an upright
in the corner of the stage.  This pantomime-style musical is definitely for euro geeks
and has the feel of a university show because of the clever in-
jokes, sometimes obscure references and no-frills production
values. At a little over an hour long, it whizzes by very
entertainingly for anyone familiar with the politics of
currencies.  “EuroCrash!” is showing at Berlin’s Prime Time Theater on
Jan. 26, at  Frankfurt ’s House of Finance from Jan. 27 to Jan.
29, and at the Cockpit Theatre in London from Feb. 8 to Feb. 11.  For tickets and information, go to:
 http://www.primetimetheater.de/spielplan.html 
 http://www.frankfurtticket.de/ 
 http://www.thecockpit.org.uk/show/eurocrash_the_musical   (Catherine Hickley writes for Muse, the arts and leisure
section of Bloomberg News. The opinions expressed are her own.)  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Hickley at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 