-- Dollar Weakens as Fed Pledge Boosts Risk Demand; Real, Rand, Aussie Rise
-- B y   A l l i s o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-26T22:09:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/euro-declines-from-one-month-high-versus-yen-as-greek-debt-talks-resume.html
The dollar weakened versus all its
16 most-traded counterparts as the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to
keep interest rates at a record low for longer than originally
forecast spurred investors to seek higher yields.  The U.S. currency touched a five-week low against the euro
after policy makers said yesterday the benchmark  interest rate 
would stay low until at least late 2014 from mid-2013 and as
Italian yields fell to a six-week low. The Canadian dollar
strengthened to parity with the greenback for the first time
since November. Brazil’s real was the best performer against the
dollar after the unemployment rate fell to a record low.  “The Fed’s statement yesterday did take the market by
surprise and adds to the risk rally by making central bank
policy even easier in the U.S. if that was possible,” said  Mark McCormick , a New York-based currency strategist at Brown
Brothers Harriman & Co.  The dollar was little changed at $1.3109 per euro at 5 p.m.
in New York after sliding to $1.3184, the weakest level since
Dec. 21.  “The euro came up quite a bit with all the dollar selling
after the Fed,” said Eric Viloria, senior currency strategist
for Gain Capital Group LLC in New York. “Technically, it hit
some resistance and we fell below the 55-day moving average and
there is some decent technical resistance right above where we
saw the highs of the day.”  Currency Rates  The U.S. currency dropped 0.4 percent to 77.45 yen. The
euro fell 0.4 percent to 101.53 yen, after touching the
strongest level since Dec. 23.  Implied volatility of three-month options of Group of Seven
currencies fell to 10.29 percent, from as much as 10.78 percent
yesterday, according to the  JPMorgan G7 Volatility Index (JPMVXYG7) . A
decrease makes investments in currencies with higher benchmark
lending rates more attractive as the risk in such trades is that
market moves will erase profits.  Brazil’s real rose 0.7 percent to 1.7491 per dollar after
reaching 1.7320, the strongest in more than two months. The
nation, where interest rates are 10.5 percent, saw the
 unemployment rate  fell to a record 4.7 percent in December,
beating estimates of a decline to 4.9 percent.  South Africa’s rand gained 1.2 percent to 7.7922 per
dollar. It touched 7.7772, the strongest in three months. South
Africa’s central bank on Jan. 9 left its benchmark rate
unchanged at 5.5 percent, compared with 0.25 percent in the U.S.  Dollar Measure  The Dollar Index dropped to the lowest in six weeks amid
speculation the central bank will enter another round of asset
purchases potentially debasing the currency. The gauge, which
IntercontinentalExchange Inc. uses to track the U.S. currency
against those of six U.S. trading partners, fell for a second
day, losing 0.1 percent to 79.418. It earlier reached 79.067.  The Fed “recognizes the hardships imposed by high and
persistent unemployment in an underperforming economy, and it is
prepared to provide further monetary accommodation,” Chairman
 Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday at a press conference in
 Washington .  “There was a lot of talk that before that the bar would be
very high for another round of quantitative easing and the
comments yesterday don’t particularly suggest that the bar is
very high to use the balance sheet to support growth,” said
 Alan Ruskin , global head of Group-of-10 foreign-exchange
strategy at Deutsche Bank AG in New York.  Canada’s currency gained 0.3 percent to C$1.0018 per  U.S.
dollar  after reaching C$0.9982, the strongest since Nov. 1.  Euro Rally  The dollar has dropped 1.1 percent in the past week,
according to Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes, which track
10 developed-nation currencies. The yen fell 1.7 percent and the
euro rose 0.4 percent.  The euro rallied earlier as Italian 10-year yields  fell 
below 6 percent for the first time since Dec. 8. The nation sold
its maximum target at an auction of zero-coupon and inflation-
linked debt today.  Three-month cross-currency  basis swaps , the rate banks pay
to convert euro interest payments into dollars, was 0.68
percentage point below the euro interbank offer rate today, the
least expensive since August. It is up from negative 1.1 at the
beginning of the year.  The shared currency gained less against the dollar than its
higher-yielding counterparts on concern  Greece  and its private
creditors will struggle to agree on a debt swap.  Greek Talks  Charles Dallara  and  Jean Lemierre , negotiating on behalf of
private creditors, return to  Athens  today after European finance
ministers insisted bondholders take bigger losses on their Greek
debt holdings.  “The markets are on standby waiting for some sort of a
resolution,” said Marchel Alexandrovich, an economist at
Jefferies International Ltd. in  London . “There is a sense that
a solution will ultimately emerge, but the whole thing could
drag on for quite a while, which will probably keep the euro
under pressure.”  The cost to protect against a decline in the euro against
the dollar declined. Risk-reversal rates for three-month options
on the 17-nation currency were negative 1.6 percent today. The
measure reached negative 4.7 percent in November.  The krona fell for a fifth day against the euro after
 Statistics Sweden  said unemployment rose to 7.1 percent in
December, up from 6.7 percent in November. A manufacturing
confidence index fell to minus 14 from minus 11, the National
Institute of Economic Research said.  The krona fell 0.7 percent to 8.8947 per euro.  -- With assistance from Monami Yui in  Tokyo  and  David Goodman  in
London. Editors:  Paul Cox , Greg Storey  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allison Bennett in  New York  at 
 abennett23@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  