-- Ex-UBS Municipal Derivatives Chief Facing Criminal Trial Set for July
-- B y   P a t r i c i a   H u r t a d o
-- 2012-01-26T19:14:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/ex-ubs-municipal-derivatives-co-head-faces-july-9-new-york-antitrust-trial.html
Peter Ghavami, former co-head of  UBS
AG’s (UBSN)  municipal-derivatives group, will go on trial July 9 along
with two colleagues, Gary Heinz and Michael Welty, in a
municipal bond bid-rigging case, a federal judge said.  The three, who have pleaded not guilty, are accused in a
six-count indictment of engaging in “complex fraud schemes and
conspiracies that subverted competition in the market for
municipal finance contracts and deprived municipal bond issuers
of the benefits of their investments,” according to court
documents. U.S. District Judge Kimba Wood in  Manhattan  set the
trial date today.  The case is one of three brought by the U.S. Justice
Department’s antitrust unit in connection with a nationwide bid-
rigging probe of contracts used by states and local governments
to invest municipal-bond proceeds.  The conspiracy included more than 200 deals involving state
agencies, local governments and non-profits across the country,
according to documents filed in federal court.  The amount of evidence collected in the case is massive,
Charles Stillman, a lawyer for Ghavami, said in court. The U.S.
has provided more than 600,000 audiotapes and hundreds of
millions of documents, he said.  An unidentified municipality hired Ghavami’s firm to handle
the bidding for the investment of bond proceeds, government
prosecutors allege. Ghavami preselected the winning bidder in
exchange for a kickback to his employer, whom the government
didn’t identify, in a conspiracy that began in October 2001 and
ran until February 2002, according to the U.S.  The $100,000 kickback was “disguised as a re-hedge fee,”
according to the complaint.  Stillman, Jonathan Halpern, a lawyer for Heinz, and Gregory
Poe, a lawyer for Welty, all declined to comment after court.  In a separate case brought by the U.S., former CDR
Financial Products Inc. Chief Financial Officer Z. Stewart Wolmark and Vice President Evan Zarefsky pleaded guilty on Jan.
9 to a multimillion-dollar scheme to rig municipal bond
investments. CDR founder and former Chief Executive Officer
 David Rubin  and his Beverly Hills, California-based firm pleaded
guilty on Dec. 30.  The case is U.S. v. Ghavami, 10-cr-1217, U.S. District
Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Patricia Hurtado in New York at 
 pathurtado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  