-- MF Global Clients May Lose in $700 Million Bankruptcy Fight
-- B y   K i t   C h e l l e l
-- 2012-01-26T10:22:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/mf-global-clients-may-lose-in-700-million-bankruptcy-fight.html
MF Global (MFGLQ)  Holding Ltd.’s clients may
be the losers no matter who wins a $700 million dispute between
bankruptcy administrators in  London  and New York that threatens
the return of money locked in customer accounts.  The trustee of MF Global Inc., the New York brokerage unit,
is seeking the return of money used as margin for American
customers trading in Europe. It wants U.K. administrators KPMG
LLP to tap into $1.2 billion it had set aside for customers with
segregated accounts, which are supposed to be protected.  MF Global Inc. trustee James Giddens “is prepared to use
all legal avenues available to him in recovering the customer
funds, including litigation,”  Kent Jarrell , a spokesman for
Giddens, said in an e-mailed statement.  If successful, the trustee’s claim would significantly
reduce KPMG’s client money pool and lower returns for U.K.
customers, said two people with knowledge of the discussions who
declined to be identified because they are confidential. Should
 KPMG  win, U.S. customers will be treated as unsecured creditors
and face a lengthy wait for any payout.  MF Global filed the fifth-largest bankruptcy for a
financial company Oct. 31 after placing losing bets on European
debt.  “There appears to be continuing uncertainty over the
$700 million claimed as client money by the U.S. trustee,” said
Sean Donovan-Smith, an attorney at Speechly Bircham LLP in
London who represents clients and creditors of MF Global’s U.K.
unit. “Some of our clients are worried that this could impact
the client money claims that have been made and they would like
to see this addressed as soon as possible.”  Lehman Dispute  A dispute over client money held by Lehman Brothers
International  Europe  is still being fought out in U.K. courts
more than three years after the bank collapsed.  KPMG was appointed special administrator of MF Global’s
U.K. unit on Oct. 31. While KPMG has found all the money in
protected accounts, MF Global Inc.’s claim is the first serious
threat to the return of customer funds in the U.K.  “We are aware of the trustee’s claim on the client money
pool,” KPMG administrator Richard Heis said in a statement.
“We do not agree with it but will continue to work
constructively with his team to bring about an early resolution
of the matter.”  In the U.S. bankruptcy, trustees said as much as
$1.2 billion is missing from segregated accounts. Jon S. Corzine, MF Global’s former chief executive officer, has
apologized to customers and employees affected by the collapse.  Unsecured Claim  KPMG was forced to set aside funds pending the resolution
of the dispute, which means it can’t return the majority of
money it has recovered to customers, people with knowledge of
the matter said. It wants the $700 million to be treated as an
unsecured claim, which would be paid after clients get
reimbursed from the customer money pool.  “The Trustee strongly believes these funds were segregated
for U.S. customers who traded on foreign exchanges and, thus,
should be returned to those customers,” Jarrell said. Giddens
has hired law firm  Slaughter and May  to handle the dispute,
according to  New York  court documents.  Giddens told the New York court last month the dispute
would “significantly affect, in the near term, my ability to
return a substantial amount to U.S. customers dealing in foreign
futures.”  Frozen Accounts  Around $1.2 billion of U.K. customer money was frozen in
segregated accounts at external banks when MF Global collapsed.
More than 1 billion pounds ($1.57 billion) was held in
unsegregated accounts, which lack special protection. Those with
unsegregated funds are being treated as unsecured creditors,
KPMG said at a Jan. 9 creditors meeting.  “The regulators failed to make certain that segregated
funds couldn’t be moved without authorization from someone
independent of MF Global,” said Douglas Makepeace of  New York- 
based Sperry Fund Management, which had money in a segregated
U.K. client account. “Once the money is gone, litigation is a
poor remedy, with no certainty of recovery.”  KPMG, which has yet to return any money, has said it will
make an initial payment to segregated account holders soon after
a London court hearing scheduled for Feb. 3. The firm  posted a
document  on its website last week explaining its treatment of
customer funds and how it has accumulated fees of 14 million
pounds in three months of working on the administration.  Regulators in the U.S are investigating whether MF Global
Holdings Ltd. intentionally used customer funds to cover the
bankrupt firm’s margin payments on European government bond
trades, according to people with knowledge of the probe.  The brokerage case is: Securities Investor Protection Corp.
v. MF Global Inc., 11-02790, U.S. District Court, Southern
District of New York ( Manhattan ). The parent company’s
bankruptcy case is MF Global Holdings Ltd., 11-bk-15059,  U.S.
Bankruptcy Court , Southern District of New York (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kit Chellel in London at 
 cchellel@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  