-- Factory Jobs Obama Wants Are Unlikely to Return in Large Numbers
-- B y   D a v i d   J .   L y n c h
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/factory-jobs-obama-wants-are-unlikely-to-return-in-large-numbers.html
President  Barack Obama  challenged
manufacturers in his State of the Union address to “ask
yourselves what you can do to bring jobs back to your country.”  Their answer may be: less than you think, Mr. President.  Rising  wages  in China and new tax incentives at home won’t
be enough to reverse the long-term erosion in U.S. manufacturing
employment, even as some U.S. companies return production to
shuttered Rust Belt plants.  “We’re no longer going to be the manufacturing country
that we once were,” said John Russo, co-director of the Center
for Working Class Studies at Youngstown State University.  Factory jobs, which have been shrinking as a share of total
U.S. employment since the early 1950s, remain 2 million below
their pre-recession level. Obama’s election-year plan “to bring
manufacturing back” -- as well as a rival House Republican
package that would reduce taxes and prune regulations -- fly in
the face of structural changes that inexorably lower employment
in goods-producing industries.  With each year, technology allows factories to produce more
goods with the same number of -- or fewer -- workers. Since the
landmark 1994  North American Free Trade Agreement , U.S. factory
workers also have faced increasingly vigorous competition from
low-wage countries. That one-two punch drove manufacturing jobs
from their 1979 peak of 19.5 million to today’s 11.8 million
even as industrial output almost doubled.  Lost Jobs  The vast majority of those lost jobs are gone for good, say
many economists.  “I can’t really see a situation where manufacturing
employment starts to rise significantly and takes a larger share
of employment,” said economist  Paul Dales  of  Capital Economics 
in  London . “The  United States  is an advanced economy. It will
gradually move away from manufacturing to services.”  That reality will likely mute prospects for Obama’s six-
part plan to eliminate tax incentives for companies to go
offshore and create new lures for them to bring jobs home. The
president, who toured factories in Iowa and Arizona yesterday,
said a reinvigorated manufacturing sector lies at the core of
his economic strategy.  “We believe manufacturing punches above its weight
economically,” said  Gene Sperling , head of the White House
National Economic Council. “The strength of your advanced
manufacturing is critical to your innovation as a country.”  Production Increase  Recent months have brought a measure of good news from the
nation’s manufacturers. As the global economy healed, U.S.
companies gained market share, according to Capital Economics,
which noted that industrial production in November rose at an
annualized 3.9 percent rate versus a 3.2 percent increase in
global output.  Employment likewise has increased for three consecutive
months and is up 334,000 jobs since the December 2009 trough.
Aircraft maker  Boeing Co. (BA)  added about 11,000 new jobs last year
in  South Carolina  and Washington. The administration’s labor
union allies want Obama’s new push to fuel further hiring.  David Caldwell, the assistant director of United
Steelworkers District 1 covering Ohio and a former Columbus
foundry worker, praised the renewed focus on manufacturing.  “It’s too little, but I don’t think it’s too late,”
McCall said in a telephone interview.  Shuttered Plant  It is for Jim Hoisington, 53, and his wife, Patty, 64. They
were among 2,700 workers who lost their jobs when  Electrolux AB (ELUXB) 
closed its Greenville, Michigan, refrigerator plant and moved
the work to Mexico. Swamped by debt, the couple declared
bankruptcy.  Instead of making $16 an hour on the factory floor, Jim
Hoisington now makes $10 an hour working at a local golf course
and plans a state senate run in 2014. He wants the government to
crack down on unfair trading by countries including  China  and
Mexico.  “Manufacturing is the backbone of the United States,” he
said. “All these jobs that left are not coming back. We have to
invest in new jobs and new technology.”  In Ohio, where the jobless rate is 8.1 percent, now better
than the national figure of 8.5 percent, Governor  John Kasich , a
Republican who took office in 2011, cited a resurgent auto
industry and a boom in natural gas drilling for the state’s
recent manufacturing gains.  Moves Into Ohio  Kasich pointed to  Vallourec SA (VK) ’s decision to build a new
pipe mill in Youngstown to produce seamless tubes for drilling,
and  Honda Motor Co. (7267) ’s announcement earlier this month that it
will build its high-performance hybrid Acura NSX in Ohio.  The Rust Belt state lost 419,400 manufacturing jobs from
1999 through 2009, according to the U.S. Bureau of Labor
Statistics. Since the low point that year, the state has added
30,000 manufacturing jobs, including 18,300 last year.  “We need to tell mothers and fathers, ‘Do not think
manufacturing is a lost industry in America or in Ohio,’’ Kasich
said a speech yesterday in Columbus.  Some companies, including  General Electric Co. (GE) , have even
begun bringing jobs back to the U.S. from China. China’s
economic development is driving wages up by 15 percent to 20
percent annually, according to a 2011 Boston Consulting Group
study. Within five years, the cost savings of manufacturing in
China compared with states like South Carolina, Alabama or
Tennessee will be ‘‘minimal,’’ the study added.  Made in USA  Goods produced in modest volumes and that involve a
comparatively small amount of labor -- including auto parts,
construction equipment and appliances -- will be good candidates
for the ‘‘Made-in-the-USA’’ label, the group said. High-volume,
labor-intensive production of goods such as apparel and shoes
may move from China to other developing nations.  ‘‘For many products sold in  North America , the U.S. will
become a more attractive manufacturing option,’’ the study
concluded.  GE returned production of its energy-efficient water
heaters to Louisville after a new labor deal cut union workers’
starting hourly salaries to $13 from as high as $24.  ‘‘There is a manufacturing renaissance which is going on
and is likely to continue, but we need to put these things in
perspective,’’ says economist Neil Dutta of Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  New York .  Even as U.S. manufacturing output increases, and some work
is brought home, the employment gains may be modest. U.S.
factories boast high productivity thanks to widespread use of
automation. GE’s move, for example, added 100 jobs to its
Louisville payroll.  Slight Jobs Increase  Manufacturing employment rose 1.9 percent the past year
compared with about 1.8 percent for other private-sector jobs, a
slight outperformance that Dutta expects will continue for a
couple of years.  ‘‘Much of the growth in manufactured output in the recovery
will be met by increased productivity with only modest increases
in employment,’’ e-mailed  Martin Baily , former chairman of the
Council of Economic Advisers under President  Bill Clinton . ‘‘In
the longer run the share of employment in manufacturing will
continue to decline.  Some CEOs are adopting a wait-and-see attitude toward
promises of help from Washington.  Keith Nosbusch, chief executive officer of  Rockwell
Automation Inc. (ROK) , says the government must cut taxes and
regulation, curb the increase in health-care costs and deliver
relief from frivolous lawsuits.  U.S. manufacturers suffer from a ‘‘structural cost
disadvantage’’ and highly-automated U.S. factories require fewer
workers, Nosbusch said. Yet even leaner operations have
spillover effects on hiring beyond the factory gates, he said.  ‘‘Manufacturing still has the highest leverage factor of
any sector. It creates much more value and many more ancillary
jobs than any other sector,’’ Nosbusch said. ‘‘That’s why it’s
so critical. It’s not about just what is the direct
manufacturing population, but do you have a competitive
manufacturing environment so that you are able to create those
indirect jobs that support automated manufacturing.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
David J. Lynch in Washington at 
 dlynch27@bloomberg.net ; To contact the reporters on this story:  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  