-- Fed Rate Pledge May Send Investors Into Risk
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C o l l i n s   a n d   A l e x i s   L e o n d i s
-- 2012-01-26T19:58:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/fed-interest-rate-pledge-may-send-investors-into-riskier-choices.html
The  Federal Reserve  is trying to
help Americans by stimulating the economy with low interest
rates. It may actually push some of them toward riskier
investments for yield.  The Federal Open Market Committee said yesterday that
economic conditions are likely to warrant “exceptionally low
levels for the federal funds rate at least through late 2014.”
The benchmark  interest rate  has remained near zero since
December 2008 as the economy and housing market have struggled
to recover.  That means U.S. investors starved for yield will have to
continue their search for income by extending maturities or
durations of their fixed-income holdings, or putting money in
riskier, higher-yielding securities, said Dean Junkans, chief
investment officer of Wells Fargo Advisors and  Wells Fargo (WFC) 
Private Bank, which are units of Wells Fargo & Co.  “There’s not an easy answer for retirees,” said Junkans,
who’s based in  Minneapolis . “Don’t be lulled into the belief
that buying intermediate Treasury-type products or strategies at
these low, low interest levels are risk free.”  Treasuries rallied yesterday on the Fed’s rate pledge,
pushing the  five-year note yield  to 0.79 percent. Yields were
1.99 percent on the  10-year note  and 3.15 percent for the  30-
year bonds .  “I wouldn’t get too cute, too tricky in this,” said Rex Macey, chief investment officer at Wilmington Trust, of taking
on a lot of duration or maturity risk.  Rates May Rise  The risk of holding longer-term bonds is that interest
rates may rise, even before 2014, and if that happens, investors
may see the price of their bonds drop, said Richard Saperstein,
managing director at HighTower Advisors’ Treasury Partners in
New York. There’s a possible “Cinderella scenario,” in which
the  U.S. economy  may strengthen and fears of Euro contagion
diminish, causing a shift to equities from bonds and an increase
in rates, he said.  Investors should consider trimming bonds in their
portfolios that have maturities of 10 years to 30 years and
remember that the Fed’s policy will continue to keep short-term
rates anchored close to zero, he said.  Investments that offer higher yields than Treasuries such
as high-yield debt, emerging-market debt or floating-rate notes
will also appeal to investors as they expect rates to remain low
for the next two years, said Macey of Wilmington Trust, a unit
of  M&T Bank Corp. (MTB) , which oversees about $60 billion in assets.  Junk Bond Sales  The average daily  volume  of publicly traded speculative-
grade bonds rose to $4.92 billion this month, a 74 percent
increase from December, according to the Financial Industry
Regulatory Authority’s bond-pricing system. High-yield bonds are
rated below Baa3 by Moody’s Investors Service and lower than
BBB- by  Standard & Poor’s .  Sales of new  junk bonds  are accelerating at the fastest
pace since September, and exchange-traded funds focused on the
debt are growing at the fastest two-month pace since 2009.  Junkans of Wells Fargo said he’s advised clients to seek
income in multiple assets, such as dividend-paying stocks, real
estate investment trusts and master limited partnerships, rather
than extending maturities.  Structured Products  “Retirees are tired of no return on their investments and
that leads to problems because the con artists know that,” said
Jack Herstein, assistant director of the Nebraska department of
banking and finance and president of the  North American
Securities Administrators Association . “They know the elderly
have most of the income and will make promises of high-yield
investments that can’t miss.”  Senior investors may turn to structured products and
loosely regulated private placements without understanding the
terms and risks of the investments, Herstein said.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said the central bank’s policy
to help boost the economy can best help American savers.  “The savers in our economy are dependent on a healthy
economy in order to get adequate returns,” Bernanke said at a
news conference in  Washington  after a meeting of the  Federal
Open Market Committee  yesterday. “If our economy is in really
bad shape then they’re not going to get” good returns on their
investments, he said.  Not Good News  Savers using low-risk investments such as money-market
funds,  savings accounts  and certificates of deposit have been,
and will continue to be, penalized by the Fed’s low interest
rate policy, said Christopher Philips, senior analyst in the
investment strategy group at Vanguard Group Inc.  “For those who are looking for safe, secure income, it’s
not good news,” said Wilmington Trust’s Macey, who is based in
Atlanta.  The national average rate on deposits, which includes
checking, savings and money-market accounts, and CDs as long as
five years, is 0.59 percent, according to Dan Geller, executive
vice president of Market Rates Insight in  San Anselmo ,
 California . That’s the lowest since he started tracking the data
in January 1990. Interest rates on deposits may reach zero
within the next 12 months to 18 months if lending continues to
be soft, he said.  A bright spot for  borrowers is that the Fed’s pledge will
likely further trim  mortgage rates , which are linked to long-
term government bond yields, and then keep them from rising
soon, said  Greg McBride , the senior financial analyst at
Bankrate.com, a unit of  Bankrate Inc. (RATE)  The average rate for a 30-
year mortgage rose to 3.98 percent in the week ended today from
3.88 percent, the lowest in records dating to 1971,  Freddie Mac 
said in a statement.  Credit-card lenders, betting that their funding costs will
remain low, also may boost or extend offers for zero-interest
balance transfers, McBride said.  -- With assistance from Joseph Ciolli and Caroline Salas Gage in
 New York . Editors:  Rick Levinson , Christine Maurus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Collins in New York at 
 mcollins45@bloomberg.net  or Alexis Leondis at 
 aleondis@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rick Levinson at   rlevinson2@bloomberg.net . 