-- Fed Easing May Harm Long-Term Economic Growth, Warsh Says
-- B y   J o s h u a   Z u m b r u n
-- 2012-01-27T02:47:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/fed-easing-may-harm-long-term-u-s-economic-growth-warsh-says.html
Former  Federal Reserve  Governor
 Kevin Warsh  said the central bank’s record monetary easing may
set back the U.S. economic expansion and that he’s concerned
policy makers are pushing investors into riskier assets.  “Recent policy activism -- measures that go beyond a
central bank’s capacity or traditional remit -- threatens to
forestall recovery and harms long-term growth,” Warsh said in a
speech today in Stanford,  California . The former governor said
he hopes the Fed’s pledge to hold rates low until at least late
2014 isn’t seen as a “guarantee” that “reacquaints consumers
with bad habits.”  Warsh joined the Fed in February 2006, the same month  Ben S. Bernanke  became chairman, and served as one of Bernanke’s
closest advisers during the financial crisis. Both policy makers
were appointed by then-President  George W. Bush  and worked to
calm markets after the September 2008 bankruptcy of Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc.  The former policy maker said he’s not “terribly
comfortable with the idea of pushing consumers into riskier
assets,” which is the impression left by the Fed’s decision
yesterday to keep the benchmark U.S. interest rate near zero
through at least late 2014. He also criticized the Fed for
unveiling policy makers’ projections for the path of interest
rates, and voiced doubt about the central bank’s new inflation
target.  New Policy?  “It’s difficult for me to understand whether or not the
Federal Reserve over the last couple of days instituted a new
policy,” by possibly allowing inflation to rise above 2 percent
to bring down unemployment, he said at the Stanford Institute
for Economic Policy Research.  Nine of the 17 officials who participate in FOMC meetings
predict borrowing costs will remain below 1 percent at the end
of 2014, with six officials expecting zero rates to last into
2015, according to forecasts released yesterday.  Warsh is now a visiting fellow at Stanford University’s
Hoover Institution and works as a consultant to investors. His
clients include the Duquesne Family Office, which  Stanley Druckenmiller  created to manage his own money after closing his
hedge fund, Duquesne Capital Management.  While Warsh voted for the central bank’s large-scale asset
buying programs, he questioned the $600 billion in Treasury
purchases announced in November of 2010. He said the purchases
posed “nontrivial risks” in a speech and opinion article a few
days after the Fed’s announcement.  Challenged Idea  Today, he went further and challenged the idea that new
asset purchases would help the economy. “I don’t believe
balance-sheet expansion at this moment passes the benefit-cost
test,” Warsh said in response to audience questions.  The former Fed governor also said that while the central
bank has done a “reasonable job” of holding down long-term
bond yields, he would be “more comfortable” if private market
participants were setting long-term  interest rates .  The speech constitutes Warsh’s first public comment since
he retired from the central bank in April. During his tenure as
governor, he never dissented from a decision by the policy-
setting  Federal Open Market Committee (FDTR) . He said today
“exceptionally accommodative monetary policy can provide
important transitional support for an economy.”  Warsh was an architect of the terms the  U.S. Treasury 
dictated to nine of the biggest U.S. banks in October 2008 in
return for a $125 billion injection of government funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Zumbrun in Washington at 
 jzumbrun@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  