-- First-Time Jobless Claims in U.S. Increase, Displaying Seasonal Volatility
-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 2012-01-26T13:43:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/first-time-jobless-claims-in-u-s-increase-displaying-seasonal-volatility.html
Claims for U.S. jobless benefits
rose last week, displaying the usual volatility around holidays
that has masked an improvement in the labor market.  Applications (INJCJC)  for unemployment insurance payments climbed by
21,000 to 377,000 in the week ended Jan. 21, up from an almost
four-year low in the prior period, Labor Department figures
showed today in Washington. The  median forecast  of 47 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey projected 370,000.  Companies are picking up the pace of hiring as job cuts
abate. At the same time, faster job gains are needed to maintain
household spending, the biggest part of the world’s largest
economy.  “The job-market recovery remains on track,” said  Scott
Brown , chief economist at Raymond James & Associates Inc. in  St.
Petersburg ,  Florida , who forecast claims would rise to 380,000.
“The underlying trend is moderately low layoffs. We certainly
have seen a lot volatility in the week to week numbers.”  Bookings for goods meant to last at least three years
climbed 3 percent after a revised 4.3 percent gain the prior
month that was more than previously estimated, data from the
Commerce Department also showed today. Economists projected a 2
percent increase, according to the median forecast in a
Bloomberg survey.  Stock-index futures held earlier gains after the reports.
The contract on the Standard & Poor’s 500 Index maturing in
March rose 0.5 percent to 1,326.3 at 8:42 a.m.  Survey Results  Jobless claims were projected to increase from 352,000
initially reported for the prior week, according to the
Bloomberg survey. Estimates ranged from 345,000 to 395,000. The
Labor Department revised the previous week’s figure up to
356,000.  The four-week moving average, a less volatile measure than
the weekly figures, fell to 377,500 last week from 380,000.  A Labor Department spokesman said there was nothing unusual
with last week’s data and the government didn’t have to estimate
the data for any state. The week included the Martin Luther King
Jr. holiday, which may make adjusting the data more difficult.  The number of people  continuing  to receive jobless benefits
climbed by 88,000 in the week ended Jan. 14 to 3.55 million.  The continuing claims figure does not include the number of
Americans receiving extended benefits under federal programs.  Extended Benefits  Those who’ve used up their traditional benefits and are now
collecting emergency and extended payments decreased by about
146,100 to 3.41 million in the week ended Jan. 7.  The  unemployment rate  among people eligible for benefits,
which tends to track the jobless rate, rose to 2.8 percent from
2.7 percent, today’s report showed.  Forty-five states and territories reported a decrease in
claims, while eight reported an increase. These data are
reported with a one-week lag.  Initial jobless claims reflect weekly firings and tend to
fall as job growth -- measured by the monthly nonfarm payrolls
report -- accelerates.  Payrolls climbed by 200,000 workers in December after
rising by 100,000 the prior month, and the  jobless rate  fell to
8.5 percent, the lowest level in almost three years, Labor
Department figures showed on Jan. 6.  Fed Meeting  The  Federal Reserve , tasked by Congress with promoting
 price stability  and full employment, yesterday said it doesn’t
foresee an acceleration in the recent decline in joblessness.
The central bank’s  Federal Open Market Committee  said their
benchmark  interest rate  will stay low until late 2014 and
anticipate that unemployment will remain high and inflation
“subdued.”  “The Committee expects economic growth over coming
quarters to be modest and consequently anticipates that the
unemployment rate will decline only gradually,” the FOMC said
in a statement at the conclusion of their two-day meeting in
Washington. “The Committee also anticipates that over coming
quarters, inflation will run at levels at or below those
consistent with the Committee’s dual mandate.”  Norfolk Southern Corp. (NSC) , the second-biggest railroad in the
eastern U.S., said it plans to add to payrolls this year. “We
do expect, however, to see increased hiring in engineering and
mechanical ranks in 2012,” James Squires, chief financial
officer at the Norfolk, Virginia-based company, said on a Jan.
24 conference call with analysts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in  Washington  at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  