-- Five-Year Treasury Yields Near Record Low After Fed Pledges to Hold Rates
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-26T01:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/five-year-treasury-yields-near-record-low-after-fed-pledges-to-hold-rates.html
Treasury  five-year  yields held a
two-day decline after sliding to a record yesterday, following
the  Federal Reserve ’s announcement that it plans to keep its
benchmark  interest rate  low until at least late 2014.  The  difference  between five- and 10-year rates widened to
1.21 percentage points, the most since Oct. 28. Policy makers
are “prepared to provide further monetary accommodation” and
bond buying is “an option that’s certainly on the table,” Fed
Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after officials gathered for a
meeting yesterday. The Treasury Department is scheduled to sell
$29 billion of seven-year securities today.  “By keeping rates low for a longer period, beyond two
years, the five-year will benefit most,” said Bin Gao, head of
rate research for  Asia  and the Pacific at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  Hong Kong . “It increases the inflation risk,
so 10-years will not rally that much.” The company is one of
the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Yields on 10-year notes fell one basis point to 1.99
percent at 9:55 a.m. in  Tokyo , according to Bloomberg Bond
Trader prices. The 2 percent securities maturing in November
2021 rose 2/32, or 63 cents per face amount, to 100 1/8.  The  yield  on the five-year note was little changed at 0.81
percent after dropping to a record of 0.76 percent yesterday.  The  difference  between rates on five-year notes and
Treasury Inflation Protected Securities, a reflection of
traders’ outlook for consumer prices, rose to as high as 1.79
percentage points, the most since Nov. 14.  Fed Forecasts  Policy makers are “prepared to provide further monetary
accommodation if employment is not making sufficient progress
towards our assessment of its maximum level, or if inflation
shows signs of moving further below its mandate-consistent
rate,” Bernanke said at a news conference yesterday after a
Federal Open Market Committee meeting in  Washington .  The Fed lowered its forecast for growth this year to 2.2
percent to 2.7 percent, down from a projection of 2.5 percent to
2.9 percent in November. It predicted the economy next year will
expand 2.8 percent to 3.2 percent, down from a previous forecast
of 3 percent to 3.5 percent.  In a separate statement of its long-range goals and
strategy, the FOMC specified a 2 percent goal for inflation, as
measured by the annual change in the  price index  for personal
consumption expenditures.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  