-- Floating-Casino Bid Turned Into China’s Biggest Aircraft Carrier Purchase
-- B y   P a u l   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-01-26T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/floating-casino-bid-turned-into-china-s-biggest-aircraft-carrier-purchase.html
The Varyag was to be a 1,000-feet-
long Admiral Kuznetsov-class warship, a platform for several
dozen fighter jets as well as eight or 10 helicopters. Then the
former  Soviet Union  fell apart in 1991, and Ukraine inherited
the still-unfinished vessel with a ski-jump incline at one end
to help launch aircraft.  In 1992, as the former Soviet republics stumbled out of
communism, construction of the ship ceased altogether, Bloomberg
Businessweek reports in its Jan. 30 issue. Ukraine couldn’t
afford to complete the vessel, the Russian news agency ITAR-TASS
reported.  In 1997 the National Agency of Ukraine for Reconstruction
and Development organized a sale, with the opening bid set at
$20 million. In 1998 a Chinese entrepreneur named Cheng Zhen Shu
said his company in Hong Kong, the Chong Lot Travel Agency,
would pay the minimum $20 million to tow the Varyag out of the
 Black Sea , through the Mediterranean and to Macau.  There, Cheng said, his company would refit the warship as a
floating hotel and casino.  Devoted almost exclusively to coastal defense, the 500-
vessel Chinese navy has long desired aircraft carriers. Chairman
Mao Zedong proposed the construction of oceangoing fleets of
merchant ships escorted by carriers himself in 1958, according
to a 2010 article in the Naval War College Review.  Mao’s Idea  Mao’s idea died for lack of funding, as did a plan in the
1970s to acquire a late-model carrier from Britain. In the
1980s, General Liu Huaqing, then the commander of the People’s
Liberation Army Navy, or PLAN, expressed his desire for a
carrier. “Without an aircraft carrier,” Liu declared in 1987,
according to the state news agency Xinhua, “I will die with my
eyelids open,” meaning he would pass away with the wish
unfulfilled.  Liu retired from the military in 1997 and the Varyag was
acquired a year later.  The ex-Soviet ship was not the first used carrier  China  had
purchased. In 1982 Beijing bought the 15,000 ton Majestic-class
carrier Melbourne from Australia, which was dismantled for study
and then scrapped. In 1998, the Russians sold China the much
larger carrier Minsk, and, two years later, one called the Kiev.
After undergoing similar scrutiny by Chinese ship designers, the
Minsk and Kiev were turned into floating amusement parks.  ‘Foreign Technology’  Beijing’s military planners do not have a made-in-China
bias, according to Robert S. Wells, a former U.S. Navy commander
who now advises the Pentagon as a private consultant based in
northern  Virginia . “They are eager to imitate foreign
technology,” he says, “and they don’t have any concerns about
intellectual property rights.”  In December 2006 the South China Morning Post reported that
the Chinese military had completed a large-scale model of a U.S.
 Nimitz-class carrier , apparently for training purposes.  At the time, one hint that the Chong Lot Travel Agency
might be part of a Chinese military reverse-engineering project
was that Cheng, the head of the company, had spent 10 years as a
People’s Liberation Army officer. “We always had great
suspicion,” says Chong-Pin Lin, a Taiwanese national security
scholar who has served as the island’s Deputy Defense Minister.
Since 1949, mainland China has claimed  Taiwan  as its own.  Chong Lot’s Cheng insisted he had only tourism in mind.
According to the South China Morning Post, he denied that he was
planning to hand the ship over to China’s military. He told the
Post in November 1998 that his company would spend $200 million
to remake the Varyag into a water-borne resort “with 600 hotel
rooms, a conference center and various attractions, including a
nightclub and ‘children’s military playground.’”  ‘Blue Water’  Word that a Chinese company with military ties had
acquired the Varyag concerned Western intelligence agencies
“that China is trying to convert its navy, now mainly a coastal
defense force, into a ‘blue water’ navy capable of projecting
military power abroad,” the Post reported.  Western governments pressured  Turkey  to deny Cheng
permission to pull his unequipped warship through the Bosphorus
Strait. Chinese officials promised to pay the Turks for any
damage caused by the transit through the heavily trafficked
strait, according to the China-owned  Hong Kong  Commercial Daily.  The ex-PLA officer Cheng complained that the delay would
cost him the chance to compete for a casino license, the
Commercial Daily reported. He said he hoped Macau, control of
which had by then shifted to Beijing, would make a special
allowance for him after his former Soviet ship was renovated.  Ship Adrift  In November 2001, Turkey let the Varyag pass. In the
Mediterranean, the ship encountered a powerful autumn storm off
 Greece  and it broke adrift. The Greek coast guard landed a
helicopter on deck to help reattach the towlines.  In the process, a sailor fell overboard and died.
Eventually the warship was secured, and it continued on its
journey, dropping anchor in 2002 not in Macau but in Dalian, a
northern China port that is home to the country’s largest
shipyard.  It became increasingly unlikely the Varyag would ever be
used for roulette and blackjack tables. Ian Storey and You Ji, a
pair of scholars based in  Australia , monitored what they called
“persistent reports that the People’s Republic of China intends
to acquire an aircraft carrier force as part of its ambition to
achieve ‘blue water’ (high seas) naval capability.”  Firm Evidence  They sifted through Internet gossip, cryptic pronouncements
from Chinese policymakers, and shipping industry intelligence.
In a January 2004 article for the Naval War College Review,
Storey and Ji concluded “no firm evidence exists that China
really does intend to refurbish, build, or buy an aircraft
carrier. Thus the prospect of a Chinese carrier remains subject
to a great deal of rumor and speculation.”  Taiwan concluded otherwise. Not long after the boat docked
in Dalian, workers began painting it a naval gray. “Then we saw
the truth,” says Taiwan’s Professor Lin, the former defense
official. “This was China’s first aircraft carrier.”  In 2006, China issued a defense white paper announcing that
the PLAN would extend its mandate beyond coastal defense to
include “offshore defensive operations.” Three years later, in
2009, when a Beijing-based reporter for Bloomberg News traveled
to Dalian, he observed welding torches flaring at dusk on the
flight deck of the still-unfinished aircraft carrier. The ship
was in plain view in dry dock about 600 meters from an Ikea
Group furniture store.  ‘Short Takeoff’  The design of the ex-Soviet vessel is known as “short
takeoff but arrested recovery,” or STOBAR. Ships of this
variety are generally simpler to build and maintain than the
catapult-assisted carriers in the American fleet, which can get
heavier aircraft aloft.  In April 2011, Xinhua heralded the slope-decked vessel’s
imminent debut, posting photographs on an official website.
“Huge warship on the verge of setting out,” the state news
agency declared, “fulfilling China’s 70-year aircraft carrier
dreams.” Beijing rechristened the ship the Shi Lang, after a
17th century Chinese admiral who served the Ming and Qing
dynasties. The symbolism could not have been lost on
historically minded government officials in Taipei. In 1683,
Admiral Shi led a force of 300 ships in the amphibious conquest
of Taiwan.  Six months ago, in August, the Shi Lang took a maiden
voyage under the Chinese flag. After nearly a decade of
additional tinkering by Chinese engineers, it still lacks
missiles, jets, and pilots, but it can cruise under its own
power.  Larger Intentions  From Taipei to  Tokyo  to  Seoul  to  Washington , diplomats and
military analysts are scrutinizing every move the Shi Lang
makes, searching for signs of China’s larger intentions. “It’s
surprising to a lot of people that China has been the one member
of the  United Nations Security Council  not to have an aircraft
carrier,” says Wells, the former U.S. Navy commander who also
served as a White House national security adviser during the
George W. Bush Administration.  Among those in the carrier club are  Russia ,  France , and
 Brazil . The U.S. alone has 11 carriers. Launching their own
aircraft carrier, says Wells, signals that the Chinese expect to
be respected as a great power.  The Shi Lang is only one element of a much broader overhaul
of China’s military. The program includes construction of dozens
of new Song-class submarines armed with cruise missiles and the
development of a land-based antiship ballistic missile known as
the DF-21D, specifically designed to destroy aircraft carriers
and other warships.  Renewed Focus  In response, the U.S. has communicated it does not intend
to allow China to bully American allies in the region. The
Pentagon is scheduled to take delivery in 2015 of the first of a
new breed of nuclear-powered aircraft carrier equipped with
pilotless drones. During an Asian tour last November, President
Barack Obama announced a renewed American focus on the Pacific,
illustrated by the transfer of thousands of U.S. Marines to
bases in Australia.  American shows of strength are in part a reaction to
China’s challenges to Vietnamese and Philippine claims to oil
and gas reserves beneath the South China Sea. Trade across that
body of water has an annual value of $5.3 trillion, $1.2
trillion of it involving the U.S., according to the U.S. Defense
Department. Since 2004, Chinese President Hu Jintao has spoken
publicly of a more expansive naval policy that would help secure
international shipping lanes, ensure access to energy sources,
and protect Chinese nationals living overseas.  Taiwan Fears  The Taiwanese fear that Beijing harbors plans to emulate
the invasion-inclined Admiral Shi Lang. Taiwan has 23 million
citizens, compared with China’s 1.3 billion. According to the
Pentagon, China has as many as 1,200 short-range ballistic
missiles deployed opposite Taiwan.  Shunned by most of the world, Taiwan does not have an
official representative at the  United Nations  and isn’t
permitted to maintain a formal embassy in Washington. Under a
1979 U.S. law the U.S. has an obligation to ensure Taiwan’s
self-defense by supplying the nation with weapons. As recently
as last September, American officials approved upgrading the
island’s fleet of   Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  F-16 fighters.  “The mainland has shifted from traditional modes of
strategic thinking, which concentrated on crossing the sea to do
battle on land, to looking to encircle Taiwan by adroitly
deploying forces off Taiwan’s east coast,” Deputy Minister of
National Defense Andrew Yang said in an e-mail interview.  Not Hostile  In theory, a Chinese carrier-led naval task force could be
used to deny the U.S. the ability to come to Taiwan’s rescue.  Beijing insists that it has no hostile intentions. When
Chinese officials met with Obama during an international summit
in  Indonesia  in November, the Beijing delegation said their
country is prepared to negotiate a binding code of conduct for
all nations whose vessels ply the South China Sea, Assistant
Foreign Minister Liu Zhenmin told reporters. China aims to
protect international shipping, Liu added. Beijing, he said,
sees the U.S. as “an important player in  Asia  ever since the
Second World War.”  Ten days later, on Nov. 29, the Shi Lang went for her
second test cruise.  Despite the tension, economic relations between Taiwan and
China have improved in recent years under the leadership of
Taiwanese President Ma Ying-jeou, who was reelected in mid-
January. Taiwan has relaxed trade, travel, and investment
restrictions, and has ended a six-decade ban on visitors from
the mainland. In 2010 the countries signed a trade accord,
cutting tariffs and increasing access to cross-border banking.  ‘Regional Security’  Noting these positive diplomatic developments, Chien-Min
Chao, Taiwan’s Deputy Minister of Mainland Affairs, said in an
e-mail interview that “the continued military buildup in
mainland China threatens not only peace in the Taiwan Strait but
also regional security.”  Last April, Admiral Robert Willard, the top U.S. military
commander in the Asia-Pacific region, told the U.S. Senate Armed
Services Committee that he didn’t consider the Chinese carrier
an imminent menace. He acknowledged that its presence troubled
American allies.  “Based on the feedback we received from our partners and
allies in the Pacific,” he testified, “I think the change in
perception by the region will be significant.” In addition to
its commitment to Taiwan, the U.S. has defense treaties with
 Japan , South Korea, the Philippines, and Thailand. Willard,
whose command is based in Hawaii, assured the senators that the
Chinese would have to go through “a long period of training and
development and eventual exercising preceding any operational
[carrier] capability.”  Brazil Training  Landing jets on the deck of a rolling ship is among the
most difficult of all military maneuvers. In 2009, Brazil
announced it would provide naval aviation training to the PLAN,
according to a Pentagon white paper published last year.  Optimists in the West see expanding Chinese naval activity
as an opportunity for greater cooperation. Since 2008, the PLAN
has helped support multinational humanitarian and antipiracy
missions off the east coast of Africa. The U.S. has encouraged
Beijing’s participation, and last summer, China deployed its
ninth escort formation in that region. Chinese military leaders
have even broached the once-taboo topic of building supply-and-
repair bases overseas to support the antipiracy missions.  Warship Escort  “The Chinese are proud of having had their warships escort
the merchant vessels of other nations, and that’s a good
thing,” says Wells, the former U.S. naval commander. As a
Pentagon consultant, he participated last year in a military
conference in Bahrain where Chinese naval officers made a
presentation about their activities in the Somali Basin and the
Gulf of Aden. The Chinese, Wells says, openly lobbied for
expanded antipirate responsibilities.  The U.S. State Dept. declined to comment on the record for
this article. But government officials familiar with American
diplomacy in the Pacific say the cooperative military-to-
military interaction has helped improve overall relations
between China and the U.S.  General Liu lived to see his navy take part in these joint
operations far from home—something unimaginable earlier in his
career. He may also have known about the initiation of another
of his goals: the creation of an aircraft carrier designed and
fabricated in China.  The Pentagon, in its 2011 Annual Report to Congress on
Military and Security Developments Involving the People’s
Republic of China, speculated that the building of Beijing’s
first indigenous carrier may have begun last year. “If China
commence[d] construction in 2011,” the report said, “the PLA
Navy could have its first indigenous carrier achieving
operational capacity as early as 2015.”  The Chinese have built enormous container ships,
supertankers, and liquefied-natural-gas carriers. That
experience would be helpful in constructing the hulls of more
complex aircraft carriers, Li and Weuve write. China is also
developing a carrier-capable fighter, called the J-15, or Flying
Shark, which is based on a Russian Su-33 warplane obtained from
Ukraine in 2004, according to the Pentagon.  For all of these advances, however, General Liu did not
witness the first voyage of the Shi Lang under a Chinese flag.
He died last January, his eyelids presumably open, at the age of
94.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Barrett in New York at 
 pbarrett17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bryant Urstadt at 
 burstadt@bloomberg.net  