-- Ford May Post Largest Annual Profit Since 1998 on One-Time Accounting Gain
-- B y   K e i t h   N a u g h t o n
-- 2012-01-26T22:22:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/ford-may-post-largest-annual-profit-since-1998-on-one-time-accounting-gain.html
Ford Motor Co. (F) , boosted by a one-
time tax gain, may report its most profitable year since 1998,
while weakness in  Europe  and  Asia  cut fourth-quarter earnings.  Ford may post 2011 net income tomorrow that tops $20
billion, thanks to a gain of about $14 billion from eliminating
a valuation allowance against deferred tax benefits, said Robert
Willens, a corporate tax specialist. Ford no longer needs the
reserve, created in 2006 as it began reporting  operating losses ,
because it expects to be profitable in coming years and able to
use the tax benefits, according to a U.S. filing.  The non-cash gain is likely to push fourth-quarter net
income above the record of $1.8 billion set in 1999, Willens
said. Ford’s highest annual net income was $22.1 billion in
1998, when it sold the lender Associates. Ford had $6.6 billion
in net income in the first nine months of 2011, the most since
1998, on rising sales of new models such as the Explorer.  “Investors need to focus on the statement Ford is making
and forget the big accounting journal entry,” said Willens,
president of  Robert Willens  LLC of  New York . “This is a
statement from Ford that they have a high level of confidence in
their ability to generate copious amounts of income for the
foreseeable future.”  The annual profit would be the third straight for Chief
Executive Officer  Alan Mulally , who has improved quality and
expanded the model lineup with fuel-efficient offerings like the
Fiesta subcompact. Ford lost $30.1 billion from 2006 to 2008, as
truck and sport-utility vehicle sales collapsed and the economy
fell into the worst recession since the Great Depression.  Europe, Asia Woes  In last year’s fourth quarter, the Dearborn, Michigan-based
automaker was hampered by a deteriorating market in Europe and
flooding in  Thailand  that rendered its Asian operations
unprofitable, Chief Financial Officer  Lewis Booth  told analysts
Jan. 10. Fourth-quarter profit excluding some items may have
slipped to 25 cents a share, from 30 cents a share a year
earlier, according to the average estimate of 15 analysts
surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The fourth quarter wasn’t an easy quarter for Ford,”
said  Efraim Levy , an analyst for S&P Capital IQ who has a
“buy” rating on Ford. “The euro zone will reflect weakness
from late in the quarter and you’ll see more impact in the first
quarter. It will get worse before it gets better.”  North America  North America, where Ford generates most of its sales and
profits, will remain a stronghold as new models like the
redesigned Fusion sedan and Escape SUV arrive this year, said
 Brian Johnson , an analyst with  Barclays Capital . Ford’s U.S.
sales rose 11 percent last year and it gained market share for
the third consecutive year for the first time since 1970.  “ North America  is shaping up to be even better in 2012,”
Johnson, who rates Ford “overweight,” said in an interview.
“The Fusion was clearly the mid-sized car hit of the Detroit
auto show and the new Escape will be sold at a higher price
point.”  Ford’s 2011 revenue may have risen to $134.7 billion, the
average of five estimates, from $129 billion in 2010. In the
fourth quarter, revenue may have climbed to $33.5 billion, the
average of four estimates, from $32.4 billion last year.  Consumers paid an average of $32,028 for the company’s
models last year, up 25 percent from 2002 and the highest price
Ford vehicles have ever commanded, according to online auto
researcher Edmunds.com.  ‘More Credible’  “Ford is seen as a more credible competitor to the
Japanese brands and they’re gaining a lot of traction in places
they weren’t historically strong, like  California ,” said
Jessica Caldwell, director of pricing and industry analysis for
Edmunds, which is based in  Santa Monica , California.  Ford boosted prices and profits by loading new models with
technology like voice-activated phones and fuel-efficient,
turbocharged engines. Other competitors, such as  South Korea ’s
 Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , are now attempting to match Ford’s technology
and pricing strategy, Johnson said.  “Ford’s key challenge in 2012 is maintaining its market
share position in the face of all the copycat strategies,”
Johnson said.  Enthusiasm for the redesigned Fusion sedan introduced at
the Detroit show this month has helped to drive up Ford shares
19 percent this year. Ford fell 36 percent last year after
rising 68 percent in 2010. Ford fell 1.1 percent to $12.79 at
the close in New York.  “The stock is too cheap for a company that has done
everything right,” said  Gary Bradshaw , a  fund manager  at
Dallas-based Hodges Capital Management, which owns about 250,000
Ford shares. “If an investor is patient, I think you can make
good money on Ford. But it’s been painful, that’s for sure.”  Investor Concerns  While the sluggish recovery has weighed on Ford’s stock,
investors also are concerned about the elimination of the
valuation allowance raising Ford’s U.S.  tax rate  to near 35
percent, as the automaker has said it would. Once it releases
the valuation allowance, Ford will revise its operating earnings
per share for 2011 to reflect the new tax rate, the company said
in a filing.  Fears about the higher tax rate are misplaced, Johnson
said. Ford won’t actually pay cash taxes this decade because it
still has operating loss carryforwards and other tax assets on
its books to offset taxes, he said.  “I’ve been fighting a losing battle in trying to get
investors to understand,” Johnson said. “The valuation
allowance is not a positive because it gets people focused on an
artificially high tax rate that leads to an EPS that doesn’t
reflect the underlying cash earnings power of the company.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Keith Naughton in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 knaughton3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  