-- Foreclosure-Ridden Florida Listens for Republican Housing Plans
-- B y   M i c h a e l   C .   B e n d e r
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/foreclosure-ridden-florida-waits-to-hear-what-republicans-plan-for-housing.html
Mitt Romney  came to  Palm Beach ,
Florida, two weeks ago for a fundraiser at the 27,500-square-
foot house of Miami Dolphins owner Stephen Ross. Ten miles away,
Peter Willis hadn’t paid his mortgage for six months.  The retired travel agent, 82, wants the bank to reduce the
principal on the yellow stucco ranch in  West Palm Beach , across
the Intracoastal Waterway from the resort city. Instead, he
expects foreclosure.  “There are no other options,” Willis said.  Republican presidential candidates campaigning in  Florida (STOFL1) 
before its Jan. 31 primary are seeking votes in the state with
the highest rate of home loans that are delinquent or in
foreclosure. Yet Romney,  Newt Gingrich ,  Rick Santorum  and  Ron Paul  have said little about what they might offer voters like
Willis.  Nor has President  Barack Obama ’s mortgage-relief program
done much to stop the freefall. In Tampa, where the Republican
candidates debated this week,  home prices  dropped 23.4 percent
during the past three years, according to an S&P/Case-Shiller
index. That’s more than twice the 11.3 percent average of the 20
largest metropolitan areas.  Money and Votes  The state’s  9.9 percent  unemployment rate last month
exceeded the national average of  8.5 percent . That and the
housing crisis may help determine who takes the presidency.  Florida has 29 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win the
White House, and the average victory margin there in the past
three races has been 2.6 percentage points.  Housing is “a huge component of the race here in
 Florida ,” Eric Fehrnstrom, a Romney adviser, told reporters
Jan. 24 in Tampa.  Of mortgaged homes, 23 percent are delinquent or being
foreclosed upon, according to Lender Processing Services, a
Jacksonville analytics company. And the crisis promises to
persist: The state leads the nation in the time it takes to
foreclose, an average 1,017 days, according to the company.  The Republican candidates have offered few solutions. None
of their economic plans include mortgage relief, plans for
clearing the foreclosure backlog or tougher fraud protections.  Wary of Washington  “Voters, down here, are extremely leery of politicians
pushing Washington cures for our housing troubles,” said Randy
Nielsen, a West Palm Beach Republican consultant not working for
a presidential candidate.  Romney, a former Massachusetts governor and private-equity
executive, and Gingrich, a former  House of Representatives 
speaker, said during the Tampa debate they would repeal the
Dodd-Frank Act. Opponents argue the 2010 overhaul of financial
regulations slowed the recovery with restrictions on lenders.  “If they would repeal it tomorrow morning, you would have
a better housing market the next day,” Gingrich said.  Romney said at an appearance before the debate that the
real-estate bubble was tragic and “a detour from America’s
history.”  The candidate last year told the Las Vegas Review-Journal
in  Nevada , one of three states that outstrip Florida’s rate of
foreclosures, that he wouldn’t stop them.  “Let it run its course and hit the bottom,” Romney said
in an  interview  published Oct. 17. “Allow investors to buy
homes, put renters in them, fix the homes up and let it turn
around and come back up.”  Freedom for Banks  The candidate said during the Tampa debate that he’d
consider helping banks work with homeowners.  “You’re going to have to help people see if they can’t get
more flexibility,” Romney said. “Right now, with Dodd-Frank,
we made it harder for banks to renegotiate mortgages.”  Santorum’s tax plan would let people deduct losses from a
home sale.  Currently, “You have to pay gains, depending on the
amount, but you can’t deduct the losses,” Santorum, a former
Pennsylvania senator, said in the Tampa debate. Changing that
would “allow people the freedom to to be able to go out and get
out from underneath these houses.”  Running Interference  Paul, a congressman from Lake Jackson,  Texas , said he would
let the market correct itself.  “The best thing you can do is get out of the way, because
you want the prices to come down so that people will start
buying them again, but politicians can’t allow that to happen,”
he said.  Meanwhile, time is running short for homeowners such as
Elizabeth Horta.  The 45-year-old mother of two sat on her husband’s lap in a
Miami-Dade County courtroom this month awaiting foreclosure
documents that showed she and her family would have 90 days
until the bank sold their house in Homestead.  ‘Where has Obama been?’’ Horta said. “He hasn’t helped
me.”  Obama in recent months has promoted changes to the Home
Affordable Refinance Program. Introduced in 2009, it was
initially limited to mortgages no greater than 125 percent of
the property value. Now, home value isn’t a qualification.  The changes have helped support the market, said George P. Scanlon, 54, chief executive officer of  Fidelity National
Financial Inc. (FNF) , the largest U.S. title insurer. The state’s
forecasted six-month  growth rate  is the highest since July 2005,
according to the  Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia .  Underwater Rescue  The Jacksonville-based company, which benefited from
Obama’s mortgage program, gained 1.7 percent to close at  $18.15 
in  New York  Stock Exchange composite trading yesterday, the
highest in almost three years.  “Things are moving forward,” said Scanlon, who supports
Romney. “You can only hope the political process doesn’t stymie
that.”  In his State of the Union this week, Obama proposed helping
homeowners refinance to take advantage of low  interest rates . He
didn’t provide details, except to say that it would be paid for
by “a small fee on the largest financial institutions.”  The White House has also been monitoring a potential $25
billion settlement between state attorneys general, including
Florida’s, and the five largest mortgage servicers:  Bank of
America Corp. ,  JPMorgan Chase & Co. ,  Citigroup Inc. (C) ,  Wells Fargo
& Co. (WFC)  and  Ally Financial Inc. (ALLY)   Eating It  The settlement, triggered by disclosures that the companies
were using faulty documents in seizing homes, would fund
principal writedowns for homeowners and provide refinancing, a
person familiar with the matter told Bloomberg News.  “Unemployment is still too high, and a lot of people are
still hurting and the housing market is still weak,” Obama said
Jan. 20 at a fundraiser in New York. “In that environment, this
is going to be a tough race, regardless of who they nominate.”  The settlement may help win support of homeowners like
Willis, who blames banks for the housing mess.  “Who is so much of fool to pay a huge amount of money
every month for a house that is only worth half as much?”
Willis said. “The bank caused this problem and brought it on
themselves. And now they’re going to have to eat it.”  At Romney’s predebate campaign appearance in Tampa, he met
with eight residents who work in the housing market or have been
affected by declines.  “It doesn’t have to be like this,” Romney told them. “It
can get better. It will get better. I can’t tell you how quickly
it’s going to get better.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael C. Bender in Tallahassee at 
 mbender10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  