-- Former Merrill Lynch Broker in Einhorn Insider Case Said to Face U.K. Fine
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-01-26T18:50:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/former-merrill-lynch-broker-in-einhorn-insider-case-said-to-face-u-k-fine.html
A former corporate broker at  Bank of
America Corp .’s Merrill Lynch, facing an investigation over
inside information given to Greenlight Capital Inc. Chairman
 David Einhorn , may be fined 350,000 pounds ($550,000) by the
U.K. finance regulator, a person familiar with the matter said.  Andrew Osborne, the former broker, faces the fine as part
of a  Financial Services Authority  civil probe, according to the
person who declined to be identified because they weren’t
authorized to speak on the matter. Osborne may have told
Einhorn, 43, that Punch Taverns Plc planned to raise equity a
week before it was announced to the market in 2009, according to
the person.  Einhorn ordered traders to sell shares in Punch Taverns
“within minutes” of getting the information, the FSA said
yesterday. Greenlight and Einhorn, who said the market abuse was
“inadvertent,” were fined 7.2 million pounds by the regulator
yesterday. Osborne, who wasn’t identified by the FSA, may
challenge the penalty at a tribunal, the person said.  A call made to Osborne’s former office at Bank of America
wasn’t answered. John McIvor, a London spokesman for the
 Charlotte , North Carolina-based bank, declined to comment and
declined to provide contact details for him. Osborne is listed
on the FSA’s register as being “inactive” since Nov. 30 and an
Internet and a directory assistance search found no phone
listing for him.  The FSA declined to comment on the fine or to provide
contact details for Osborne. The amount of the fine was reported
earlier today by  Sky News .  Firm X  According to the FSA, a week before  Punch (PUB)  announced the
sale, some shareholders and potential investors were notified of
the offering by a company the FSA referred to as “Firm X.” The
firm contacted Greenlight about the Punch issuance, and Einhorn
declined to discuss it on a “wall crossed” basis, where it’s
agreed to share inside information on the condition that it’s
not acted on, the regulator said.  The following day, a corporate broker from Firm X and Punch
management had a 45-minute conference call with Einhorn, during
which inside information was disclosed to him, the FSA said.
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and Merrill Lynch arranged the share
sale, according to a filing at the time of the stock offering.  The 3.64 million-pound fine against Einhorn is the second-
largest civil penalty levied against an individual by the FSA
after a $9.6 million fine against Dubai-based investor
Rameshkumar Goenka in November. The FSA said Einhorn’s trade
wasn’t deliberate or reckless.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in  London  at   lfortado@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 