-- U.K. Stocks Climb, Led by Commodity Producers; EasyJet Advances
-- B y   A d a m   H a i g h
-- 2012-01-26T16:55:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/ftse-100-stocks-climb-led-by-fresnillo-randgold-resources-easyjet-gains.html
U.K. stocks  rebounded from two days
of losses as Federal Reserve Chairman Ben S. Bernanke signaled
the U.S. central bank will keep interest rates low through 2014
and said a third round of asset purchases remains an option.  Rio Tinto Group and  Randgold Resources Ltd. (RRS)  led commodity
producers higher as metals prices advanced and  Petropavlovsk (POG)  Plc
increased it gold-production forecast.  EasyJet Plc (EZJ)  rallied 10
percent after reporting that revenue increased.  The benchmark  FTSE 100 Index  gained 72.2, or 1.3 percent,
to 5,795.2 at the close in London. The FTSE-All Share Index
increased 1.3 percent as did Ireland’s ISEQ Index. The FTSE 100
has  risen 4 percent  this year amid signs that the U.S. economy
is recovering and after the  European Central Bank  lent money to
banks at 1 percent using its three-year long-term refinancing
operation.  “Whilst growth has been better than expected in the U.S.,
Bernanke’s press conference highlighted the willingness and
ability of the  Federal Reserve  to provide more stimuli,” said
Gerard Lane, an equity strategist at Shore Capital in Liverpool,
England. “We would suggest risk assets are supported by better-
than-expected U.S. economic data and the ECB’s willingness for
balance-sheet expansion to stave off the sovereign-debt
crises.”  Fed Support  U.S. policy makers are “prepared to provide further
monetary accommodation if employment is not making sufficient
progress towards our assessment of its maximum level, or if
inflation shows signs of moving further below its mandate-
consistent rate,” Bernanke said yesterday after a Federal Open
Market Committee meeting in Washington. Bond buying is “an
option that’s certainly on the table,” he added.  The Fed yesterday also extended its prediction to keep
 interest rates  low through at least late 2014, in its first
forecast for U.S. rates.  Representatives of Greece’s private creditors will propose
that bonds issued as part of a debt exchange should carry a
weighted average coupon of 3.75 percent, Kathimerini reported,
without saying how it got the information.  Charles Dallara , the managing director of the Washington-
based Institute of International Finance, will make the proposal
when talks with Greek officials resume in Athens today, the
newspaper said.  Rio Tinto advanced 4.9 percent to 3,893 pence and  Fresnillo
Plc (FRES)  climbed 4.3 percent to 1,817 pence.  Kazakhmys Plc (KAZ)  surged 7.3
percent to 1,194 pence.  Petropavlovsk Gains  Petropavlovsk, a miner of gold in Russia, advanced 11
percent to 772 pence, its biggest gain since October 2009.
Chairman Peter Hambro said sales reached $1 billion and the
company forecast further growth in production this year.  Randgold, a producer of the precious metal in Africa, added
5.1 percent to 7,170 pence.  EasyJet surged 10 percent to 445.5 pence, its biggest jump
since July. Revenue rose 17 percent to 763 million pounds ($1.2
billion) in the quarter ended Dec. 31, offsetting fuel-bill
increases and curbing a predicted first-half loss.  Sirius Minerals Plc (SXX)  slumped 9.6 percent to 21.25 pence as
it proposed selling shares to raise 50 million pounds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Adam Haigh in London at 
 ahaigh1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at 
 arummer@bloomberg.net  