-- LG Display’s Fourth-Quarter Loss Narrows on 3-D Television, Mobile Demand
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-01-27T06:27:50Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/lg-display-s-fourth-quarter-loss-narrows-on-3-d-panel-smartphone-demand.html
LG Display Co. (034220) , the world’s second-
largest maker of liquid-crystal displays, reported a fourth-
quarter loss narrower than estimates, helped by demand for
panels used in 3-D televisions and mobile devices.  The  net loss  was 6.3 billion won ($5.6 million) in the
three months ended Dec. 31, compared with a loss of 268.4
billion won a year earlier, according to a filing by the Seoul-
based company today. The average of 25 analyst  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg was for a net loss of 83.9 billion won.  The company, which supplies screens for  Apple Inc. (AAPL) , is
counting on specialty products to withstand an industry slowdown
caused by stagnant sales of conventional liquid-crystal-display
televisions. Widening adoption of 3-D TVs and surging demand for
smartphones and tablet computers may help the company boost
profit and take on bigger competitor  Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)   “Those high-value products are making a big contribution
to earnings, and the trend will continue,” said Kang Yoon Hum,
a Seoul-based analyst at NH Investment & Securities Co. “They
have become defining factors that differentiate the company from
competitors.”  LG Display rose 2 percent to close at 28,550 won in  Seoul ,
while the benchmark Kospi index gained 0.4 percent.  LCD Shipments  Global LCD TV shipments were probably 206 million units
last year, falling short of an earlier projection of 211 million
units,  according to  an October forecast by research company
DisplaySearch.  LG will probably ship a similar amount of panels in the
first quarter as it did in the previous three-month period, with
prices remaining stable, the company said in a statement today.
While TV manufacturers’ inventory restocking may boost sales,
the global economic slowdown may damp demand, according to the
statement.  The company’s parent group said Jan. 13 it will reduce
spending by 15 percent this year, citing slowing consumer
spending in the U.S. and  Europe  as a risk. Samsung said today
capital expenditure for its panel business this year will be 6.6
trillion won.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  