-- Gates Foundation Agrees to Give $750 Million to Global Fund
-- B y   S i m e o n   B e n n e t t
-- 2012-01-26T10:31:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/gates-foundation-agrees-to-give-750-million-to-global-fund-1-.html
The  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation ,
the world’s richest charity, will give $750 million over six
years to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria
after some government donations declined or stopped.  The foundation will make the contribution for 2011 to 2016
in the form of a promissory note, which is a legally binding
agreement for future payment, the Geneva-based Global Fund said
in a  statement . That will give it flexibility to make grants for
life-saving programs in the world’s poorest countries, the fund
said.  The Seattle-based foundation’s commitment brings its total
donation to $1.4 billion since the Global Fund was founded in
2002 to combat the world’s three biggest infectious killers. The
fund said in November it will make no new grants for the next
two years because of a decline in contributions from donor
governments.  “These are tough economic times, but that is no excuse for
cutting aid to the world’s poorest,”  Bill Gates , co-chairman of
the foundation, said in a separate statement today. “The Global
Fund is one of the most effective ways we invest our money every
year.”  The European Commission,  Germany ,  Denmark  and  Sweden  were
among governments that froze payments to the fund last year
after reports that some of its grants had been misappropriated.  A committee led by former U.S. Health Secretary  Michael
Leavitt  found in September that the organization lacked
sufficient safeguards to prevent fraud. The fund said this week
that its executive director of five years, Michel Kazatchkine,
would quit and Gabriel Jaramillo, a member of the Leavitt
committee, would be appointed in the new role of general manager
to “ensure the institution manages donor
resources as efficiently and safely as possible.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simeon Bennett in Geneva at 
 sbennett9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Phil Serafino at 
 pserafino@bloomberg.net  