-- Gazprom Export Rebound Delayed by Weather, Norway, RenCap Says
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a
-- 2012-01-26T10:51:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/gazprom-export-rebound-delayed-by-weather-norway-rencap-says.html
OAO Gazprom (GAZP) ’s natural-gas exports to
 Europe  may show no growth this year with the outlook for the
warmest winter since 2006 and Norwegian supplies curbing demand
for Russian fuel,  Renaissance Capital  said today.  The gas export monopoly may supply about 150 billion cubic
meters to Europe this year, unchanged from last year, analysts
Ilya Balabanovsky, Ildar Davletshin and Artem Kvas, said in a
note today. The Moscow-based investment bank previously expected
Gazprom to ship 160 billion cubic meters after some liquefied
natural gas cargoes were diverted to  Asia .  “Following a detailed analysis of European natural-gas
market trends with respect to LNG, weather patterns and
indigenous production, we are taking a more bearish view of the
company’s gas exports to the continent,” the analysts said.
“The recovery in Gazprom’s exports is not dead, it has simply
been delayed by a year, to 2013.”  Gazprom, which supplies about a quarter of Europe’s gas,
expected production to reach pre-crisis levels this year, rather
than 2013, Chief Executive Officer  Alexei Miller  said in June.
In a bid to maintain its market share, the gas producer agreed
to provide discounts to some European customers including  GDF
Suez (GSZ)  SA, after oil-linked prices in its long-term contracts
diverted from the continent’s spot rates.  Europe’s heating needs are diminished by the mildest winter
weather since 2006 and in the absence of economic growth,
leaving the continent’s gas consumption at 452 billion cubic
meters this year, Renaissance said.  ‘Last Resort’  A slower pace of gas withdrawal left inventories at about
12.3 billion cubic meters higher than normal levels, while about
17.7 billion cubic meters of LNG cargoes will be diverted to
Asia this year, the analysts said. Norway’s Statoil SA will
probably fill more of the 5.4 billion-cubic-meter gap than
Gazprom, according to the research.  Statoil has benefited from changes in marketing and pricing
strategy and higher production capacity in the  North Sea ,
boosting its competitiveness against Gazprom, which remains as
the “supplier of last resort” to European customers,
Renaissance said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  