-- Geithner Says Obama Won’t Ask Him to Lead Treasury if He Wins Re-Election
-- B y   C h e y e n n e   H o p k i n s   a n d   T r i s h   R e g a n
-- 2012-01-26T01:21:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/geithner-says-obama-won-t-ask-him-to-lead-treasury-if-he-wins-re-election.html
Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner , the last remaining member of the Obama
administration’s original economic team, said he doesn’t expect
the president to ask him to stay in office if re-elected.  “He’s not going to ask me to stay on, I’m pretty
confident,” Geithner said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television today. “I’m confident he’ll be president. But I’m
also confident he’s going to have the privilege of having
another secretary of the Treasury.”  Geithner, 50, has led President  Barack Obama ’s efforts to
pull the  U.S. economy  out of the worst recession since World War
II. Before joining the administration in 2009, Geithner was
president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, playing a key
role in the U.S. government’s bailouts of banks including
 Citigroup Inc. (C)  and  Bank of America Corp. (BAC) , and automakers General
Motors Co. and Chrysler Group LLC.  In the Bloomberg TV interview, Geithner said he would do
“something else” after leaving the Treasury, without
specifying what that would be. In August, an administration
official said Geithner would stay in his job at least through
this year’s presidential election.  Bowles, Conrad  Erskine Bowles, chief of staff under President Bill Clinton, and Democratic Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota
could be among the potential candidates to succeed Geithner,
said Mark Calabria, director of financial regulation studies at
the Cato Institute in  Washington .  Conrad, 63, chairman of the Senate Budget Committee who
said a year ago he won’t seek another term, is “a serious
budget hawk on the left, well-liked and respected,” Calabria
said.  Bowles, 66, is the former co-leader of President Obama’s
commission that drafted a plan to reduce the federal
government’s debt.  Geithner had told White House officials earlier last year
that he was considering leaving after negotiations on raising
the nation’s debt limit were completed. An agreement was signed
into law by Obama in August.  The Treasury secretary said in June that his son would be
returning to  New York  to finish high school, and that “I’m
going to be commuting for a while.”  Geithner is the last remaining member of Obama’s original
economic team after the departures of advisers including
National Economic Council Director Lawrence Summers, Office of
Management and Budget Director  Peter Orszag , and Austan
Goolsbee, who was a member of the Council of Economic Advisers
and later replaced  Christina Romer  as chairman.  Dodd-Frank  Geithner also said in the Bloomberg TV interview he wasn’t
concerned about Wall Street complaints over the Dodd-Frank Act’s
financial overhaul and regulation.  “I would not worry too much about them,” Geithner said in
the interview in  Charlotte ,  North Carolina . “I would worry more
about the basic confidence of Americans that they’re going to
face more opportunities, more likely to find a job, keep a job,
save for college, save for a dignified retirement.”  Geithner said that “no industry likes reforms that change
the way we do business. But we’re doing that because we have to
protect the economy from ever facing again the type of crisis we
saw.”  The  unemployment rate  in December dropped to 8.5 percent,
almost a three-year low, and employers expanded payrolls by
200,000, twice the rate of the previous month and an indication
that the job market is gaining momentum.  Investing, Manufacturing  Geithner said he’s confident the administration, working
with Congress, can design changes in the corporate tax system to
“improve the incentives for investing, make manufacturing
stronger.”  On  Europe , Geithner said leaders there are “making some
progress. They got a lot of work to do.” He said he tells
European leaders that they need to “put in place a stronger,
more credible firewall.”  Geithner was scheduled to travel from North Carolina to
Davos, Switzerland, tonight for the 42nd annual meeting of the
 World Economic Forum , his sixth trip to the continent since
September.  Germany , Europe’s dominant economic power, signaled
on Jan. 23 that it might back an increase in the region’s
overall rescue capacity to 750 billion euros ($983 billion) from
500 billion euros.  He also spoke at an event held by the Charlotte Chamber of
Commerce in North Carolina today. Geithner visited the state to
tour a  Siemens AG (SIE)  energy plant and promote investments in
manufacturing and technologies to create jobs.  Geithner last visited North Carolina in October when he
spoke at a  Corning Inc. (GLW)  factory and touted the president’s jobs
bill that later stalled in Congress.  North Carolina was one of two Southern states -- the other
was Virginia -- that swung for Obama in 2008 after decades of
voting for Republican presidential candidates. Obama edged
Republican rival John McCain by 14,000 votes of almost 4.3
million ballots cast.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Cheyenne Hopkins in Washington at 
 chopkins19@bloomberg.net ;
Trish Regan in New York at 
 tregan8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  