-- Georgia’s Saakashvili Challenges Medvedev Claims, Invokes War
-- B y   H e l e n a   B e d w e l l
-- 2012-01-26T13:23:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/georgia-s-saakashvili-challenges-medvedev-claims-invokes-war.html
Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili said  Russia  must remove its “illegal embassies”
from two occupied regions before diplomatic relations, which he
severed after a 2008 war, can be restored.  President  Dmitry Medvedev  said yesterday that Russia is
“ absolutely ready ” to restore ties. He cited the partial
resumption of direct flights between the two former Soviet
republics as evidence of improved relations.  “It’s not clear what Russia means when they say they’re
ready to restore ties with Georgia,” Saakashvili’s spokeswoman
Manana Manjgaladze told reporters in the capital Tbilisi today.
“Do they mean Georgia as a whole, as it’s recognized by the
international community? Or Georgia without the regions Russia
occupied? We won’t restore ties with Russia until the illegal
embassies in the two occupied regions are closed.”  Russia routed Georgia’s army in a five-day war in August
2008 over the Georgian breakaway region of  South Ossetia , later
recognizing its independence as well as that of Abkhazia,
another separatist region. Georgia broke off diplomatic
relations with Russia on Sept. 2 of that year.  Medvedev yesterday also said that since Russia has been
accepted into the  World Trade Organization , a “more energetic
exchange of goods” will follow with Georgia.  Russia banned imports of Georgian wine and mineral water in
March 2006, claiming the beverages were unfit for consumption.
The embargo was expanded in October 2006, when Russia cut road,
rail, air and sea links with Georgia, halted postal service and
blocked money transfers.  Medvedev also reiterated his refusal to meet or even speak
with Saakashvili, whom he blames for starting the 2008 conflict.
The Russian leader said he would welcome closer ties. “There’s
only one person I won’t deal with,” he said. “You know whom
I’m talking about.”  Manjgaladze dismissed Medvedev’s implication that
Saakashvili is standing in the way of a rapprochement.  “The problem is not in Saakashvili,” she said. “The
problem concerns  Georgia  as a whole, including its population
and those thousands who were expelled from their land.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helena Bedwell in Tbilisi at 
 hbedwell@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at   bpenz@bloomberg.net  