-- German Bunds Advance Amid Fed Debt-Buying Speculation, Greek Debt Concern
-- B y   L u c y   M e a k i n
-- 2012-01-26T09:43:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/german-bunds-rise-amid-greek-debt-swap-talks-fed-bond-buying-speculation.html
German 10-year bunds rose for a
second day amid speculation the  Federal Reserve  is preparing to
increase its bond purchases, adding to concern the global
economy is struggling to recover.  Longer-maturity bunds led gains as Greece and its private
creditors resume bond-swap talks in  Athens  while policy makers
dispute the mounting cost of a rescue, boosting demand for the
safest assets. Italy is scheduled to auction as much as 5
billion euros ($6.55 billion) of debt today.  Bunds “are getting a reasonably large boost from the U.S.
market on the view of the Fed,” said  Marc Ostwald , a fixed-
income strategist at Monument Securities Ltd. in London. “It’s
going to be a matter of focusing in on the auctions and what
comes out of  Greece .”  Germany’s 10-year yield fell one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.93 percent at 9:42 a.m. London time. The
2 percent bund due in January 2022 rose 0.11, or 1.10 euros per
1,000-euro face amount, to 100.6. The yield climbed to 2.02
percent yesterday, the highest level since Dec. 21.  The U.S. central bank is considering additional bond
purchases to boost growth, Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke said
yesterday, as the Fed extended its pledge to keep  interest rates 
low through at least late 2014.  A third, fourth and fifth round of easing “lie ahead,”
Bill Gross, who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co. in  Newport Beach , California, wrote in
a Twitter post.  ‘Out of Ammunition’  Central bankers in the developed world are “out of
ammunition” and quantitative-easing policies in the U.S. aren’t
achieving traction, Stephen Roach, non-executive chairman of
Morgan Stanley Asia, said in an interview with Bloomberg
Television at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland.  Bunds were also boosted amid concern Greece will default on
its debt, increasing the challenges facing  Europe ’s policy
makers as they struggle to resolve the region’s debt crisis.  Charles Dallara  and  Jean Lemierre , negotiating on behalf of
private creditors, return to Athens today after European finance
ministers insisted bondholders take bigger losses on their Greek
debt. The  International Monetary Fund  suggested that public
holders of Greek bonds might also have to increase support.  Greek two-year notes tumbled, with the price falling to
19.93 percent of face value and the yield climbing 22.15
percentage points to 193.92 percent.  Italian Bonds  Italian bonds advanced for the first time in three days as
the nation prepared to sell its first inflation-linked
securities of the year.  The 10-year yield fell eight basis points to 6.15 percent,
narrowing the extra yield investors demand to hold the
securities over similar-maturity bunds by six basis points to
422 basis points. Two year yields declined five basis points to
3.67 percent.  Italian borrowing costs have dropped at debt sales since
the  European Central Bank  on Dec. 21 lent financial institutions
a record 489 billion euros of three-year loans, in a so-called
longer-term refinancing operation.  “We expect both auctions to be well received,” Giuseppe Maraffino, a strategist at Barclays Plc in  London , wrote in an
e-mailed note. “Short-dated issues have benefited over the past
few weeks from the big take-up at the three-year LTRO held in
December, with part of the liquidity probably used to buy bills
and short-term bonds, especially in the peripheral countries.”  Bunds have handed investors a loss of 0.8 percent this
year, according to indexes compiled by Bloomberg and the
European Federation of Financial Analysts Societies. French
bonds have lost 0.2 percent and Greek debt rose 1.2 percent, the
indexes show.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lucy Meakin in London at 
 lmeakin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  