-- Germany, France Report Improving Consumer Confidence: Economy
-- B y   M a r k   D e e n   a n d   G a b i   T h e s i n g
-- 2012-01-26T11:33:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/germany-france-report-improving-consumer-confidence-economy.html
German and French consumers are
growing more confident, suggesting household spending may temper
the slowdown in  Europe ’s two largest economies.  Consumer sentiment in Germany  will increase for a fifth
straight month in February, market research company GfK SE
predicted today, citing a survey of about 2,000 people. In
France, a gauge of confidence unexpectedly advanced to 81 in
January from 80 in December, Paris-based national statistics
office Insee said. That index remains close to an all-time low.  “The numbers underline the strength particularly in
Germany,” said Tobias Blattner, an economist at Daiwa Capital
Markets in  London . “The crisis is not hurting confidence there.
Wages will rise and unemployment will continue to be low, and
because of strong trade linkages this demand will spill over
into the rest of Europe.”  Signs that the 17-nation euro area may avoid a deep slump
give European Central Bank President Mario Draghi time to assess
the impact of two interest-rate cuts and record lending to
banks. Draghi, who said in November that the region faced a
“mild recession,” kept the ECB’s benchmark rate unchanged at a
record low of 1 percent on Jan. 12. The U.S. Federal Reserve
pledged yesterday to keep rates low through at least late 2014.  The  Stoxx Europe 600 Index  added 0.7 percent at 12:30 p.m.
in  Frankfurt . The euro climbed 0.4 percent to $1.3163.  German Unemployment  Unemployment in Germany is at a two-decade low of 6.8
percent, supporting  consumer spending  and helping to limit the
impact of the debt crisis.  Business confidence  jumped to the
highest in five months in January, and the  International
Monetary Fund  said on Jan. 24 that the economy will weather a
recession in the euro region and grow 0.3 percent this year.  “German consumers are defying Europe’s recession trends,”
GfK said in a statement. “To ensure consumer spending can
support the economy” it is “vital that decision makers do
everything needed to re-establish trust,” it said.  GfK’s gauge of economic optimism surged to 7.5 in January
from minus 0.9 in December, and an index of income expectations
increased to 34.1 from 34. A measure of consumers’ willingness
to spend rose to 41.8 from 27.4.  Germany ’s statistics office said on Jan. 11 that the
economy probably shrank about 0.25 percent in the fourth
quarter. Growth slowed to 3 percent in 2011 from 3.7 percent in
2010, which was the most since German reunification two decades
ago.  Confidence in  Sweden   Sweden, which isn’t one of the 17 countries sharing the
euro, is also seeing sentiment improve. Consumer confidence rose
to minus 1.3 in January from minus 7.4 in December, the National
Institute for  Economic Research  said today.  Europe’s debt crisis is nevertheless curbing global growth.
Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke yesterday laid the groundwork for a
third round of large-scale asset purchases should unemployment
remain higher than policy makers would like.  The U.K. yesterday reported a 0.2 percent economic
contraction in the final quarter of 2011, and a report today
from the Confederation of British Industry showed retail sales
fell in January at the fastest pace in almost three years.  In  Asia ,  South Korea ’s economy grew 0.4 percent in the
fourth quarter from the third, the least in two years, the
central bank is Seoul said earlier today.  In  France , Europe’s No. 2 economy, consumer confidence
remains near a record low of 79 last matched in October 2008.  ‘Dangerously Close’  While today’s  increase in consumer sentiment  to 81 lifted
the index from its lowest since March 2009, it is “still
dangerously close to the all-time low,” said  Dominique Barbet ,
an economist at BNP Paribas in Paris. “The headline decline has
been interrupted but the stabilization at such a low level is
unfavorable for the consumption outlook and growth.”  French jobless claims soared to the highest in 12 years in
December as companies such as  Peugeot Citroen SA (UG@FP)  trimmed
payrolls. The number of people actively looking for work at the
end of December rose by 29,700, or 1 percent, to 2,874,500, the
Labor Ministry said today in an e-mailed statement.  Italy ’s situation is similar.  Consumer confidence  in the
third-largest euro economy held at a 16-year low in January as
Europe’s debt crisis forced austerity measures that may help
push the economy into a recession.  The Italian confidence index remained at 91.6, matching the
previous month, which was the lowest since January 1996,
national statistics office Istat said in  Rome  today.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Deen in Paris at 
 markdeen@bloomberg.net ;
Gabi Thesing in London at 
 gthesing@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  