-- Germany Poised to Woo U.K. With Transaction Tax Alternative
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   B r i a n   P a r k i n
-- 2012-01-26T17:24:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/germany-poised-to-woo-u-k-with-alternative-to-financial-transaction-tax.html
Germany  is preparing plans for a
form of European stamp duty on  shares  linked to tougher trading
rules as an alternative to a financial-transaction tax, as it
seeks to win U.K. support for a European Union-wide levy.  Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s Christian Democrats and their
Free Democratic Party allies are coalescing around an FDP
proposal for a Europe-wide tax along the lines of the U.K.’s
levy on shares. Such a solution is a “good option” if
accompanied by rules that limit “abusive excesses” in
automated trading, the Free Democrats said in a paper drafted by
former Economy Minister  Rainer Bruederle .  “What’s emerging in the coalition is consensus that
maximum demands such as those put forward by the European
Commission are just not realistic,” Ralph Brinkhaus, a
 Christian Democrat  who sits on parliament’s finance committee,
said by telephone late yesterday. “We’re looking at multiple
proposals that can possibly add to the U.K.’s instrument, that
is ‘stamp duty plus X’.”  The German move is an acknowledgement that the transaction
tax championed by Merkel and French President  Nicolas Sarkozy  is
unlikely to come to fruition without the backing of the U.K.,
home to Europe’s biggest financial district in the City of
London. It is also a potential blow to Sarkozy as he faces re-
election in April, after he suggested that  France  would impose
the levy even if others didn’t.  The European Commission, the EU’s executive body, has
proposed a bloc-wide tax that it says could raise 57 billion
euros ($74.8 billion) per year. The U.K. has led opposition to
the tax, saying it would be ineffective unless applied globally.  Tax ‘Madness’  U.K. Prime Minister  David Cameron  said today that it is
“madness” to even consider introducing a Europe-wide tax on
financial transactions at a time when governments are struggling
to get their economies growing. Speaking at the  World Economic
Forum  in Davos,  Switzerland , he put the economic cost of such a
tax at 200 billion euros and 500,000 jobs.  “Of course it’s right that the financial sector should pay
their share,” Cameron said. “In the U.K. we are doing exactly
that through our bank levies and stamp duty on shares. And these
are options which other countries can adopt.”  Investors buying U.K. shares pay a tax of 0.5 percent on
the price. The stamp duty is also levied on options to buy
shares and rights arising from shares. It is not levied on
foreign shares. Stamp duty on shares raised 3 billion pounds
($4.7 billion) in the year to April 2010, according to the
government.  “We’re very happy to talk to other countries about our
experience of this tax,” Steve Field, Cameron’s spokesman, told
reporters in  London  today when asked about the German proposals.  Waiting for Schaeuble  German lawmakers are awaiting the outcome of Finance
Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble ’s efforts to secure a transaction
tax in all 27 EU countries, said Michael Meister, the CDU’s
deputy floor leader and finance spokesman in parliament. The
coalition will review its stance “if he comes back with a
negative answer,” Meister said in an interview.  Merkel’s government seeks to decelerate trading, make the
financial sector pay for some of the costs of the financial
crisis and reap money for federal coffers, he said. The CDU is
“open” to other solutions, and a stamp duty and rules to curb
high-frequency trading “wouldn’t be outside the corridor” of
what’s needed to meet those goals.  An EU-wide tax on securities transactions would help Merkel
appease voters frustrated with the role of banks in the
financial crisis and avoid a potential loss of business to the
 City of London . It might also help heal a conflict with the FDP,
which has resisted agreements that don’t include the U.K.  EU Plan  The EU plan would tax stocks, bonds, money-market
instruments and derivatives at source, including at banks,  hedge
funds  and insurance companies. It would exclude government bond
auctions, while including secondary-market trading and
repurchase-agreement markets, according to EU documents. The
financial-transaction tax would be set at 0.1 percent for stocks
and bonds and 0.01 percent for derivatives.  Merkel, who favors an EU-wide levy given that U.S.
opposition bars its introduction globally, has said that there
is no agreement yet that would allow a European tax.  A three-pronged approach that copies the U.K. model, while
imposing strict regulatory requirements for computer-based
trading and includes a Europe-wide rescue fund for banks that’s
fed by levies on lenders can help “reach the goals of a
financial-transaction tax without hurting ourselves or weakening
 Europe ,” Bruederle said in his draft.  ‘Abusive Trading’  Targeted regulation is better suited to prevent “abusive
trading strategies” than imposing a tax, Bruederle said. All
computer-based trading platforms and their users should be
required to seek a license and unregulated platforms such as so-
called dark pools must be supervised.  A Europe-wide bank levy along the lines of the German
model, which penalizes risky bank business, would help manage
the cross-border repercussions of failing banks even while the
first responsibility of saving lenders would still lie with
national authorities, according to Bruederle’s draft.  “The FDP’s proposals are a good basis for moving
forward,” said Brinkhaus of Merkel’s party. “Discussions are
taking a positive course in the coalition and there is optimism
that we can achieve a compromise at EU level.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Brian Parkin in Berlin at 
 bparkin@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at   jhertling@bloomberg.net  