-- German Solar Rush Is Predicted by Breil as Lawmakers Put Off Subsidy Cuts
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a
-- 2012-01-26T17:33:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/germany-solar-rush-likely-as-plans-to-cut-subsidies-debated.html
Germany may see a rush of solar
panel installations in the coming weeks after lawmakers from
Chancellor  Angela Merkel ’s coalition failed to agree on an
overhaul of the country’s clean-energy subsidy system.  A proposal backed by Economy Minister Philipp Roesler to
limit total installations and introduce a quick, one-time
subsidy cut of about 35 percent found support in both parties
but didn’t achieve unanimous backing, said Klaus Breil, a
lawmaker with the Free Democratic Party junior coalition
partner.  “The meeting ended without result,” Breil said by phone
after the meeting last night. “This delay means we’re headed
toward installations of 4 gigawatts through April as subsidies
are currently way too generous.”  Solar stocks climbed after the announcement. The  Bloomberg
Global Leaders Solar Index (BLGS)  of 37 companies rose 2.9 percent to
$47.83 at 11:46 a.m. in New York, led by  Canadian Solar Inc. (CSIQ) ’s
13 percent gain and  JA Solar Holdings Co. (JASO) ’s 7.3 percent
increase.  The comments underscore tensions inside Merkel’s government
over support for renewable energy, which provides a fifth of
Germany’s electricity. Roesler’s proposal goes too far for
Environment Minister Norbert Roettgen, of Merkel’s  Christian
Democrats , who is seeking to increase the frequency of subsidy
cuts but has in the past opposed a fixed limit.  Record Solar Installations  Germany last year installed a record 7.5 gigawatts, more
than double the government’s target, making the nation the
world’s largest market for the technology.  An installation cap may threaten German solar companies
such as  Q-Cells SE (QCE)  and Conergy AG, which are already struggling
with rising competition from  China  where the world’s three
largest panel makers are based.  Reducing support also may undermine the government’s
efforts to develop more low-carbon power sources to replace
nuclear stations that Merkel plans to close by 2022.  “If the government implements Roesler’s plans, the energy
transformation is bound to fail,”  Carsten Koernig , head of the
BSW-Solar lobby, said in an e-mailed statement.  Horst Meierhofer, another Free Democratic Party lawmaker,
said a majority of coalition lawmakers would back incentivizing
solar power for own consumption instead of feeding it into the
grid, cutting support for large-scale solar power plants and
setting a fixed end date for solar subsidies.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  