-- Gilani Retracts Criticism of Pakistan’s Military Over Memo Probe
-- B y   H a r i s   A n w a r
-- 2012-01-26T04:33:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/gilani-retracts-criticism-of-pakistan-s-military-over-memo-probe.html
Pakistan’s Prime Minister  Yousuf Raza Gilani  retracted his remarks against the military in which
he accused the army of violating the constitution, the state-run
Associated Press of Pakistan reported.  Gilani criticized the army on Jan. 9 for overstepping its
authority by directly submitting to the  Supreme Court  its
response to claims the government sought U.S. help to stop a
possible military coup following the May killing of Osama bin Laden. A Jan. 11 army statement warned the comments would have
“grievous consequences” for the country.  Gilani told reporters yesterday before leaving for Davos,
Switzerland, that he was “dispelling” the Jan. 9 remarks and
that the government and the military “have to be on the same
page,” APP reported. Meetings with the army chief, General
Ashfaq Pervez Kayani, and head of military intelligence head,
Lieutenant General Ahmed Shujaa Pasha, have helped clarify the
situation, the report quoted him as saying.  Pakistan’s Supreme Court has ordered a commission to probe
allegations by a Pakistani-American businessman that President
Asif Ali Zardari’s envoy to the U.S.,  Husain Haqqani , sent a
memo to senior Pentagon officials seeking help to prevent any
military takeover following the American raid near Islamabad
that killed bin Laden.  Gilani’s government opposed the judicial investigation on
the grounds that it had already announced a parliamentary
inquiry into the scandal. The military supports the Supreme
Court probe.  Haqqani, who was dismissed over the memo issue, and the
government deny involvement in its drafting or delivery. Haqqani
served as an adviser to Zardari and in the 1990s and was a
spokesman for Zadari’s wife,  Benazir Bhutto , during her tenure
as prime minister.  The issue has triggered the biggest confrontation between
Pakistan’s generals and elected leaders since army rule ended
four years ago. The showdown complicates U.S. efforts to restore
a strained relationship with Pakistan that is key to its bid to
stabilize  Afghanistan  before a planned troop withdrawal in 2014.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Haris Anwar in Islamabad at 
 hanwar2@bloomberg.net ;
James Rupert in  New Delhi  at 
 jrupert3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg in  Hong Kong  at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net . 