-- Gingrich Firm Top Clients Got to Attend Signing of Favored Bill
-- B y   J u l i e   B y k o w i c z
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/gingrich-company-helped-clients-attend-bill-signing-of-favored-legislation.html
Weeks after Newt Gingrich urged
reluctant U.S.  House Republicans  to expand Medicare coverage for
prescription drugs, he and some of the highest-paying clients of
his health-policy center gained access to President  George W. Bush ’s bill-signing ceremony turning it into law.  “We found a way to get the job done,” Bush told a crowd
of seniors, top lawmakers, Gingrich’s group and others gathered
Dec. 8, 2003, at the Daughters of the American Revolution’s
Constitution Hall in Washington. “This legislation is the
achievement of members in both political parties.”  The inclusion of Gingrich’s clients at an event the public
doesn’t commonly attend was touted in a December 2003 electronic
newsletter on the website of his Center for Health
Transformation. The bulletin is no longer publicly accessible.  While Gingrich’s $1.6 million payment for consulting work
with government-backed mortgage company  Freddie Mac (FMCC)  has drawn
scrutiny in campaign debates, his role in advocating for the
expansion of Medicare has only recently become a topic of
attacks by chief rival  Mitt Romney , the former Massachusetts
governor.  The former U.S. House speaker’s advocacy for the senior
drug program is also the subject of a Jan. 5  complaint  filed by
Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington, or CREW, a
group that monitors federal officials’ activities.  Seeking Federal Investigation  “We don’t actually know what he did for  Freddie Mac ,
whereas he bragged about his accomplishments on Medicare,” said
 Melanie Sloan , CREW’s executive director. Sloan’s group has
asked the U.S. attorney for the  District of Columbia  and the
 Federal Bureau of Investigation  to investigate potential
violations of the Lobbying Disclosure Act.  The disclosure act defines when registration is required,
which largely is based on the amount of time dedicated to
advocating for a paying client. Gingrich has never registered as
a lobbyist, even though some of his activities mirror the
performance of one.  The center’s representatives testified before congressional
committees twice in 2003 and “worked with the  Bush
administration , key leaders in the House and Senate, AARP and
key experts to develop and help pass a transformational Medicare
bill,” according to his center’s December newsletter that year.  Gingrich ‘is talking to everybody, and he’s getting very
important people to listen to him,” Joseph Antos, a health-care
advocate who worked with Gingrich at the  American Enterprise
Institute , said in a Sept. 3, 2003, article in The Hill
newspaper.  Republican Opposition  The proposal to cover  prescription drugs  for older
Americans, known as Medicare Part D, was opposed by House
Republicans who saw it as too costly and objected that the Bush
administration didn’t have a way to pay for it. The
 Congressional Budget Office  estimated it would cost an extra
$410 billion over 10 years, which would add to the  deficit .  By November, it wasn’t clear whether enough Republicans
would vote for the bill. Arizona Representative Jeff Flake
recalled a Republican caucus that month in the House Ways and
Means Committee room of the Longworth House Office Building in
Washington.  Louisiana Representative Billy Tauzin, one of the bill’s
main backers who eventually left the House to head PhRMA, the
pharmaceutical industries primary trade association, told the
caucus a “conservative guru, or something to that effect,” was
there to make the case, Flake said in a phone interview
yesterday. Tauzin did not respond to requests for comment for
this article.  ‘Being Lobbied’  “In walked  Newt Gingrich ,” Flake said. “He was supposed
to sway us because he was supposedly the ultimate conservative.
We knew he had health-care clients. It seemed to all of us that
we were being lobbied.”  Flake, who voted against the bill, supports Romney. Another
Republican and Romney supporter, former Idaho Representative
C.L. “Butch” Otter, also said he was “lobbied” by Gingrich.  Asked whether such meetings occurred, Gingrich campaign
spokesman R.C. Hammond said in an e-mail yesterday, “The
speaker of the House invited Newt to speak to the GOP.”  Hammond didn’t respond to questions about the attendance of
Gingrich and his clients at the Bush bill-signing ceremony.  Seven months after Gingrich formed the Center for Health
Transformation, the business said in its December 2003
newsletter it had 27 members, including  Novo Nordisk (NOVOB)  and
QMedtrix. Founding charter members included HealthTrio, Polycom,
PricewaterhouseCoopers and Sutter Health, according to a 2003
archived web page of the Center for Health Transformation.  Center Members  The center won’t release a full list of its members, who
paid between $20,000 and $200,000 a year. Still, Gingrich and
the center mentioned many of them in speeches, testimony on
 Capitol Hill , newsletters and press releases.  At various points over the years, the drug-makers
 AstraZeneca Plc (AZN)  and Johnson & Johnson were members, as were the
health insurers  Humana Inc. (HUM) ,  WellPoint Inc. (WLP)  and the Blue Cross
and Blue Shield Association. Pharmaceutical companies supported
passage of the drug coverage expansion.  The center and its predecessor, the Gingrich Group LLC,
grossed $55 million between 2001 and 2010, according to a
statement they put out in November.  Romney in recent days has accused Gingrich of “ influence
peddling .” Gingrich has said he was acting as a public
advocate, pushing for policy changes that he had long supported.  Paid by Companies  “Here’s why it’s a problem, Mr. Speaker,” Romney said
during a Jan. 23  debate  in Tampa. “If you’re getting paid by
health companies, if your entities are getting paid by health
companies that could benefit from a piece of legislation, and
you then meet with Republican congressmen and encourage them to
support that legislation, you can call it whatever you’d like. I
call it influence-peddling. It is not right. It is not right.
You have a conflict.”  Gingrich, who served as a Georgia congressman for 20 years,
said he was sharing long-held beliefs about health care, not
lobbying Congress.  “It is not correct to describe public citizenship, having
public advocacy as lobbying,” Gingrich said during the Jan. 23
debate, after saying he has “always publicly favored a stronger
Medicare program.”  The Center for Health Transformation didn’t recruit
clients, said Anne Woodbury, who was vice president of health at
the company when it was called the Gingrich Group. Rather, she
said, they came to Gingrich because of his views on health care.  Coalition of People  “He’s pretty clear about where he stands,” Woodbury said
in a phone interview yesterday. “The center was always a
coalition of people that agreed with the visions we were
painting.”  Those views were captured in a book, “Saving Lives &
 Saving Money ,” that Gingrich wrote with Woodbury and another
colleague. They published the book in 2003 after meeting with
“our clients and other transformational thinkers and leaders to
discuss the vision” for the direction of the center, according
to an archived center history Internet page.  Several principle ideas from it were included in the
Medicare prescription drug coverage expansion bill, according to
the center’s December 2003 newsletter.  Sloan, the CREW ethics watchdog, said Gingrich’s commitment
to the cause is beside the point.  “Just because you happen to believe in something doesn’t
exempt you from lobbying rules,” Sloan said. “Doesn’t every
lobbyist believe they’re speaking out for the public good?”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julie Bykowicz in  Washington  at 
 jbykowicz@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  