-- Gingrich Joins Romney in Saturating Florida Airwaves Before Vote
-- B y   G r e g   G i r o u x
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/gingrich-joins-romney-in-saturating-florida-airwaves-before-vote.html
Allies of presidential candidate
 Newt Gingrich  say they are trying to catch up with rival  Mitt Romney  in the television advertising war ahead of Florida’s Jan.
31 primary and amid early voting by thousands of Republicans.  A pro-Gingrich committee bankrolled by billionaire casino
executive  Sheldon Adelson  and his wife announced a $6 million
advertising campaign in  Florida (BEESFL)  on Jan. 24, when it introduced
an ad that links Romney to President  Barack Obama  on health-care
policy and says the former Massachusetts governor “invented
government-run health care.”  Romney and a political committee backing him have spent
more than $7.6 million on broadcast television advertisements in
Florida through Jan. 24, according to data from New York-based
Kantar Media’s CMAG, which tracks advertising. Gingrich, the
former U.S. House speaker who won South Carolina’s Jan. 21
primary by 12 percentage points, is the primary target of the
pro-Romney advertising campaign.  “A $6 million ad buy attacking Romney is more than enough
to blanket all 10 of the state’s media markets, assuring that
every likely Republican voter will see at least three ads before
Election Day,”  Daniel Smith , a political scientist at the
University of Florida in Gainesville, said in an e-mail.  Early Votes  “What it won’t do, though, is change any absentee and
early votes that have already been cast, and that number is
growing,” he added.  Roughly 387,000 voters had cast early or absentee ballots
as of Jan. 24, according to the Florida secretary of state’s
office. The 2008 Republican primary drew 1.95 million voters.  Polling shows a tightening race. Romney was backed by 36
percent compared to 34 percent for Gingrich, according to a
Florida survey by the Hamden, Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac
University . That’s within the 4-point error margin of the Jan.
19-23 poll and represents a 10-point gain for Gingrich compared
with a Quinnipiac survey earlier this month.  A  CNN /Time poll Jan. 22-24 also found a 36-to-34 percent
Romney edge in Florida, with Gingrich narrowing a 25-point gap
in CNN’s mid-month survey.  Gingrich led among voters interviewed after the South
Carolina primary and Romney was ahead among voters interviewed
before that election, the Quinnipiac survey showed.  ‘Late Surge’  “There are probably a considerable number” of absentee
ballots cast before last weekend “that were banked for
Romney,” Smith said. “Newt’s late surge may be able to make up
the difference.”  The advertising campaign by the pro-Gingrich group,  Winning
Our Future , seeks to build on Gingrich’s momentum and counter
Romney’s attacks on the former speaker.  “There are saturation commercials going on right now,
mostly against Gingrich, although Gingrich is starting to show
up in some media outlets,” Matthew Corrigan, the chairman of
the political science department at the University of North
Florida in Jacksonville, said in a telephone interview
yesterday.  Former U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  and U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  trail far behind Gingrich and
Romney in Florida surveys. Santorum and Paul aren’t airing
broadcast television ads in Florida, CMAG data show.  Ad Blitz  The advertising on behalf of Romney’s campaign is about
evenly divided between the pro-Romney committee Restore Our
Future, which aired ads 6,039 times at an estimated cost of
$4,067,940, and the Romney campaign, which aired ads 5,233 times
at an estimated cost of $3,575,240, CMAG data show.  All five ads that  Restore Our Future  is currently airing
attack Gingrich, on issues including ethics, his service as
Speaker and his ties to  Freddie Mac , the mortgage finance
company now operating under federal conservatorship.  Romney’s campaign is airing three ads, including one that
says Gingrich “resigned from Congress in disgrace” and then
“cashed in as a D.C. insider.” Romney and Gingrich both are
airing Spanish-language spots in the Miami market, which takes
in a concentration of Cuban-American Republicans.  Restore Our Future spokeswoman Brittany Gross said she
couldn’t comment on her organization’s strategy, while noting
the group’s Jan. 23 announcement that it is spending $4.5
million to air ads through Jan. 31. Romney campaign spokeswoman
Andrea Saul didn’t immediately return an e-mail seeking comment
about how the pro-Gingrich PAC’s advertising would influence its
strategy.  ‘Corporate Greed’  Separately, Romney is the target of an ad by the American
Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, a labor
group that supports Obama.  The union’s ad links Romney to “corporate greed” and
“Medicare fraud” and morphs an image of him into one of
 Florida  Governor  Rick Scott , whose approval rating was 33
percent last month. AFSCME spent an estimated $262,500 to air
the ad as of Jan. 24, CMAG data show.  The erosion of Romney’s lead in Florida, where retail
campaigning is difficult and  TV advertising  is needed to reach
the state’s 4.1 million registered Republicans, shows how
momentum can trump money, Corrigan said.  “You need to be on TV in Florida,” he said. “But TV is
not always going to win it for you.”  During his presidential campaign four years ago, Romney far
outpaced his Republican rivals on Florida television, spending
$5.6 million to $3 million for former New York City Mayor
 Rudolph Giuliani  and $2.1 million for Arizona Senator  John McCain , according to a Jan. 20 CMAG report.  McCain beat Romney in Florida in 2008, 36 percent to 31
percent, 10 days after McCain won the  South Carolina  primary.
Giuliani had 15 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Greg Giroux in Washington at 
 ggiroux@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at   jcummings21@bloomberg.net  