-- Gingrich Attacks Romney in Florida as Swiss Account Owner
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t   a n d   J o h n   M c C o r m i c k
-- 2012-01-26T22:46:07Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/gingrich-attacks-romney-as-owner-of-swiss-accounts.html
Newt Gingrich  opened a new line of
attack against Mitt Romney, focusing on his wealth and ties to
 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS) , a firm he says added to the housing
crisis.  Gingrich’s remarks, ahead of the Jan. 31  Florida (BEESFL)  primary,
were designed to blunt criticism of his work for Freddie Mac,
the government-backed mortgage-lending company that Republicans
link to the financial meltdown.  “We’re not going to beat  Barack Obama  with someone who
owns Swiss bank accounts, Cayman Island accounts,” Gingrich
said during a stop today in Mount Dora, Florida. “I am running
for president to represent you, not to represent the Washington
establishment, not to represent Goldman Sachs.”  Gingrich portrayed himself as the victim of attack ads run
by Romney and his allies, calling them a “desperate last stand
of the old order.” The former U.S. House speaker suggested that
the ads ware being paid for by companies that  foreclosed  on the
homes of Floridians.  With both men planning to appear tonight at a debate in
Jacksonville, Gingrich also said Romney is spreading lies about
him.  “We aren’t that stupid and you aren’t that clever,”
Gingrich said, referring to Romney, the former Massachusetts
governor and business executive.  Romney Response  Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, said it’s “puzzling to
see Speaker Gingrich and his supporters continue their attacks
on free enterprise. Unlike President Obama and Speaker Gingrich,
 Mitt Romney  spent his career in business and knows what it will
take to turn around our nation’s bad economy.”  Meeting later with reporters, Gingrich again brought up New
York-based Goldman Sachs, whose employees and their families
have provided more contributions to Romney than any other single
employer. The company’s employees gave $367,200 to Romney
through Sept. 30, according to the Washington-based Center for
Responsive Politics, which tracks campaign finance. That’s more
than the $235,275 he received from the company’s employees
during his failed 2008 White House bid.  Gingrich said Romney had personal holdings in “a part of
Goldman Sachs that was explicitly foreclosing on Floridians.”  David Wells , a Goldman Sachs spokesman, declined to
comment.  Basis of Attack  When asked for the basis of his attacks, Gingrich’s
campaign provided a link to an online post by Think Progress,
whose website says it seeks to advance “progressive ideas and
policies.”  The post’s author focused on Romney’s August financial
disclosure that reported investments, through a blind trust, of
between $1 million and $5 million in the Goldman Sachs Strategic
Income Fund. Romney’s wife, Ann, also in a blind trust, placed
between $200,001 and $500,000 in the fund, according to the
disclosure.  That fund, which began in June 2010, held mortgage-backed
obligations that constituted about a quarter of its investments
as of March 31 last year, according to an annual report. Those
obligations included adjustable-rate securities issued by
Countrywide Financial Corp. and Washington Mutual Inc., lenders
that were later purchased by Bank of America Corp. and JPMorgan
Chase & Co., respectively.  Gingrich Investment  While the Think Progress report mentions that Countrywide
and Wamu are involved in thousands of foreclosures filed in
Florida, it doesn’t say that any of those foreclosed properties
were held in the securitizations owned by the fund.  Gingrich, in a disclosure filed in July, listed retirement
account investments of between $15,001 and $50,000 in the Pimco
Total Return Fund and the Blackrock Global Allocation Fund, both
of which listed holdings of mortgage-backed securities in their
latest annual filings.  Gingrich also pointed to connections between Romney’s
supporters and  Freddie Mac . Romney has criticized Gingrich for
his earnings of $1.6 million from Freddie Mac as a consultant.  Former Representatives  Vin Weber  of  Minnesota , a Romney
campaign adviser, and Susan Molinari of  New York , who has made
an anti-Gingrich TV ad, both were registered to lobby for
Freddie Mac, according to the Center for Responsive Politics.  Another Romney supporter, Representative Mary Bono Mack, a
California Republican, disputed Gingrich’s statements that
Freddie Mac hired him as a historian.  ‘Very Disingenuous’  “It is very disingenuous to say that he’s not an influence
peddler,” she said in a conference call arranged by the Romney
campaign. “There’s no doubt that he is. You cannot leave the
speakership and not have influence, not only with your former
colleagues, but future colleagues and the country as well.”  Romney, who has assailed Gingrich more vigorously following
the former speaker’s Jan. 21 South Carolina primary win, pivoted
back to his standard message today and focused on Obama.  Speaking at Paramount Printing in Jacksonville, a paper
factory in the process of closing a plant there, Romney, 64,
criticized the president for his handling of the economy.  “This has been a groundhog-day presidency,” Romney said.
“He keeps saying the same things and we keep waking up to the
same things going on.”  Dole Letter  The Romney campaign today released a letter from former
Senate Majority Leader  Bob Dole  of  Kansas , who led the Senate
when Gingrich led the House. Dole said he is backing Romney for
president.  “If we want to avoid an Obama landslide in November,
Republicans should nominate Governor Romney as our standard
bearer,” Dole, who lost the 1996 presidential election to
incumbent President  Bill Clinton  by 8 percentage points, wrote.  Dole called Gingrich, 68, a “one-man-band who rarely took
advice. It was his way or the highway.” Dole said Gingrich had
“a new idea every minute and most of them were off the wall.”  Two polls released yesterday showed Romney and Gingrich in
a virtual tie in  Florida , heightening the pressure on both as
they prepare for their televised debate. The surveys by Hamden,
Connecticut-based  Quinnipiac University  and CNN/Time/ORC each
showed Romney with 36 percent support and Gingrich with 34
percent.  The race’s two other remaining candidates -- former Senator
 Rick Santorum  of  Pennsylvania  and U.S. Representative  Ron Paul 
of  Texas  -- trailed far behind in the polls.  Santorum said today that Romney and Gingrich have refused
to debate on policies because both agree on “the big issues of
the day” such as cap-and-trade, health care mandates and the
Wall Street bailout.  ‘Real Contrasts’  “We want to have the real contrasts with President
Obama,” Santorum told reporters in Tallahassee, the state
capital. “Those two don’t disagree and I do. And that’s what
makes us a much stronger and more viable candidate in the
general election.”  As Romney’s Jan. 24 release of tax returns has provided
fodder for his opponents, he has been emphasizing that he
“didn’t inherit” his wealth. He also discussed yesterday why
his tax rate is lower than those of many Americans.  “One of the reasons why we have a lower tax rate on
capital gains is because capital gains are also being taxed at
the corporate level,” Romney said during a stop in Miami. “The
tax rate is really closer to 45 or 50 percent” for such income.  Romney Disclosure  His disclosure earlier this week showed he made $21.6
million in 2010 and used preferential rates for investment
income and charitable contributions to hold his overall tax rate
to 13.9 percent.  In Congress, Romney’s returns reignited a debate on the tax
treatment of so-called carried interest, which provides some
investment executives with preferential tax rates.  Romney said in an interview yesterday with CNBC that he
would seek to keep the provision in the  tax code , if elected,
because he doesn’t want to raise taxes on anyone.  “If it’s actually a  capital investment , and it’s fairly
priced at the time people invest in it, and then it rises in
value as a capital gain, then you treat it as a capital gain,”
he said. “If someone turns it into what looks like ordinary
income or a bonus, why then, obviously, it’s not a capital
gain.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Mount Dora, Florida at 
 jsalant@bloomberg.net ;
John McCormick in Hollywood, Florida at 
 jmccormick16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  