-- Gingrichonomics, Added Up, Equals Nothing but Dysfunction: View
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2012-01-26T00:02:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/gingrichonomics-added-up-equals-nothing-but-budgetary-dysfunction-view.html
Newt Gingrich , unexpectedly, has
become a serious contender for the Republican presidential
nomination. He won the  South Carolina  primary and is now the
front-runner in  some polls  nationally. He has been debating
well, shaking off criticism of his personal life and doing his
best to bolster his reputation as an ideas man.  Regrettably, on economics, where the country could use some
fresh thinking, his ideas are a mixture of the alarming, the
implausible and the banal.  On monetary policy, the former House speaker has called for
a more transparent  Federal Reserve , which we applaud. But he has
also spoken ominously about creating a presidential “Gold
Commission” that would “look at the whole concept of how do we
get back to hard money.” And he insists that Representative  Ron Paul , the author of “End the Fed” and a rival for the
nomination, “has been right for 25 years” when it comes to
central banking, something that would surprise most economists.  On taxes, Gingrich is at his  most specific  and most
cynical. He would make the Bush tax cuts permanent. He would
reduce the corporate-income  tax rate  to 12.5 percent from 35
percent and allow companies to write off most new equipment. He
would eliminate taxes on estates, dividends, interest income and
 capital gains ; give everyone a new personal deduction of
$12,000; and institute a “flat tax” of 15 percent. Who could
argue with such streamlined munificence?  A Few Flaws  Well, we could. For starters, this is a strange kind of
flat tax. First, it would be optional, meaning you could stick
with the current system if it was to your benefit. So it’s hard
to see how this would simplify things; presumably, people would
need to calculate their taxes twice to find out which would be
the most advantageous system. Second, it would preserve
deductions for charitable giving and mortgage interest, as well
as the earned-income tax credit and the  child tax credit . So
it’s even harder to see how he’d pay for it all.  And -- surprise! -- the plan is astonishingly expensive:
The nonpartisan  Tax Policy Center   estimates  that in 2015 alone
it would reduce government revenue by $1.3 trillion compared
with current law, or by about 35 percent. (The Gingrich campaign
responds that this analysis doesn’t adequately account for
increased economic growth.)  The plan is also quite generous to the rich: According to
the center, the top 0.1 percent of taxpayers would  receive an
average cut  of $2.3 million relative to current law. And because
the plan eliminates taxes on capital gains and dividends, huge
benefits would accrue to those who make most of their money from
investments rather than wages.  Mitt Romney  was roughly correct, in other words, when he
said at the Republican debate on Jan. 23 that under Gingrich’s
plan, “I’d have paid no taxes in the last two years.” The
American people might be surprised to hear that from someone who
earned more than $40 million in that period.  All this might make some sense if Gingrich had specified
vast areas of government that he would like to cut. But he
hasn’t. His  campaign website  says he would balance the budget
“by growing the economy, controlling spending, implementing
money saving reforms, and replacing destructive policies and
regulatory agencies with new approaches.”  This sounds suspiciously like more of the same big-
government conservatism to us -- paid for, inevitably, by
 deficits  when the promised economic growth doesn’t materialize.  True, Gingrich endorses a few of the ambitious regulatory
reforms favored by Republicans, such as repealing the Dodd-Frank
financial-regulation overhaul, the 2002 Sarbanes-Oxley
corporate-accounting reforms and President Barack Obama’s
health-care law. He adds a few wrinkles of his own, such as
replacing the Environmental Protection Agency with something
called the Environmental Solutions Agency, “modernizing” the
 Food and Drug Administration , “liberating the poor from the
trap of the Welfare Empire,” and encouraging competition in
health care.  But the idea that these reforms would make up for his
colossal tax cuts, or would so stimulate growth that federal
coffers would soon be overflowing with unexpected new revenue,
isn’t terribly convincing.  We’d love it if everyone could make huge fortunes, pay
negligible  taxes  and watch as the government magically performed
its duties for free. But in real life, if Gingrich intends to
gut one-third of government revenue -- and still plans to honor
our debts, mount a national defense, pay promised benefits and
so on -- he’ll need to do a much more convincing job of
explaining where the cuts come from.  In Gingrich’s economic plan, then, the devil is right where
you’d expect him to be.  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 