-- Greenlight’s David Einhorn Ordered Insider Trades ‘Within Minutes’ of Tip
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o   a n d   B e n   M o s h i n s k y
-- 2012-01-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/greenlight-s-david-einhorn-ordered-insider-trades-within-minutes-of-tip.html
Greenlight Capital Inc. Chairman
 David Einhorn  ordered traders to sell shares in  Punch Taverns
Plc (PUB)  “within minutes” of getting inside information on the
firm’s plan to sell equity, the U.K.’s finance regulator said.  The hedge fund avoided a loss of 5.8 million pounds ($9.1
million) when Punch fell 29.9 percent after it announced plans
to raise 375 million pounds in June 2009. Einhorn, 43, was told
of the plans to sell equity by a broker representing Punch, the
 Financial Services Authority  said yesterday.  Greenlight said the market abuse was “inadvertent.” The
New York-based firm and Einhorn were fined a total of 7.2
million pounds by the regulator for insider trading. The fine
and legal fees are being paid by Greenlight and Einhorn and
won’t affect investors, he said in a letter yesterday.  “Einhorn’s defense, good as it is, does not change the
fact that the fund avoided significant losses ahead of other
uninformed market participants and investors who did suffer
losses,” said Joe Seet, a senior partner at Sigma Partnership
in  London , which advises  hedge funds  on compliance.  According to the FSA, a week before Punch announced the
sale, some shareholders and potential investors were notified of
the share sale by a company the FSA referred to as “Firm X.”
The firm contacted Greenlight about the Punch issuance, and
Einhorn declined to discuss it on a “wall crossed” basis,
where it’s agreed to share inside information on the condition
that it’s not acted on, the regulator said.  Following Day  The following day, a corporate broker from Firm X and Punch
management had a 45-minute conference call with Einhorn, during
which inside information was disclosed to him, the FSA said.
Einhorn was told the sale would probably happen in about a week.  Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (GS)  and Merrill Lynch & Co. arranged
the share sale, according to a filing at the time of the stock
offering. The broker who briefed Einhorn was Merrill Lynch’s
Andrew Osborne, a member of its corporate broking unit in
London, according to two people with knowledge of the case. He
has since left the firm, which is now part of Bank of America,
said one of the people. Both people declined to be identified
because the regulator hasn’t disclosed the broker’s identity.  Found only in the U.K., corporate brokers are appointed by
companies to liaise with institutional shareholders and offer
strategic advice, often leading to underwriting and corporate-
finance work.  Osborne wasn’t immediately available for comment. A
colleague who answered the telephone at his former office
declined to provide his contact details. He is listed on the
FSA’s register as being “inactive” since Nov. 30. CityAM
reported Osborne’s involvement yesterday.  Bank of America  John Mcivor, a Bank of America spokesman, and Jo Carss, a
Goldman Sachs spokeswoman, declined to comment on the FSA probe.  The FSA, which said the trade wasn’t deliberate or
reckless, is imposing stricter supervision after being
criticized for failing to prevent the U.K.’s worst financial
crisis since World War II. The fine against Einhorn, 3.64
million pounds ($5.7 million), is the second-largest civil
penalty levied against an individual by the FSA after a $9.6
million fine against Dubai-based investor Rameshkumar Goenka in
November.  FSA spokesman  Chris Hamilton  said related enforcement
actions against third parties in the Greenlight case are
continuing, declining further comment on the targets.  Einhorn and the firm “completely disagree” with the FSA,
the  fund manager  told investors in his letter yesterday. He also 
said he didn’t violate any U.S. securities laws.  ‘Don’t Believe Now’  “I didn’t believe in 2009, and I don’t believe now, that
there was anything wrong with our conduct,” Einhorn said. “We
did not enter into any confidentiality agreement, we explicitly
requested that we not be given confidential information, and we
don’t believe we were given any.”  John Nester , a spokesman for the U.S. Securities & Exchange
Commission, declined to comment on whether the agency has
investigated the trades.  “Immediately” after the call, Einhorn told Greenlight
traders to sell all Punch shares, the FSA said.  The firm sold 11.65 million shares, reducing its holding
from 13.3 percent to 8.9 percent over the next four days. The
firm, which bought Punch shares between June 2008 and January
2009, had never sold or tried to sell them before that day.  Einhorn’s firm had initially invested in Punch because it
thought the shares were mispriced by the market and was unlikely
to issue equity, according to the UK regulator.  Wholly-Owned  Greenlight, wholly-owned by Einhorn, had around 31
employees in 2009, according to the FSA. The $7.8 billion
Greenlight Capital LP fund returned 2.9 percent last year and
has produced annualized returned of 20 percent since the fund
started in May 1996, according to a letter sent to investors.  Einhorn, who profited from a bet against Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. before that firm collapsed in 2008, in May called
for Microsoft Corp.’s board to replace Chief Executive Officer
 Steve Ballmer . Also last year, he offered $200 million for a 33
percent stake in the New York Mets baseball team before
withdrawing the bid. In 2006, he finished 18th in the  World
Series  of Poker’s main event.  Einhorn said yesterday that Greenlight would offer
investors a “one-time opportunity” to redeem by March 31. The
firm also plans to open its funds to existing partners and to
new investors to replace any redemption requests they receive
until March 1.  ‘Experienced Professional’  “Einhorn is an experienced professional with a high
profile in the industry,” said Tracey McDermott, the FSA’s
acting enforcement chief. “We expect someone in his position to
be able to identify inside information when he receives it and
to act appropriately. His failure to do so is a serious breach.”  On a conference call yesterday with investors and the
media, Einhorn gave his version of events. A Greenlight analyst
was approached by an investment banker for Punch, asking if
Greenlight, as the second largest shareholder, would be willing
to have a conversation, he said. The analyst said Greenlight
would be happy to talk but wouldn’t sign a non-disclosure
agreement and didn’t want to receive any information that would
restrict it from trading the stock.  The call took place on June 9, with Einhorn, Punch’s chief
executive and chief financial officers, and the investment
banker, Einhorn said. Two other investment bankers were
listening on the call, though they didn’t take part in the
conversation, he said.  Stock Offering  On the call, the CEO said he was considering a stock
offering, and Einhorn said he thought it was a bad idea for
shareholders and a good idea for bankers, Einhorn said. In
response to Einhorn’s question about whether Punch stock was
fairly valued, the CEO replied the valuation was fair, though he
would “put a discount on it,” given the risks of not being
able to make debt payments that were coming due in 18 months,
Einhorn said.  “This was a sobering moment,” Einhorn said. He said he
asked the CEO if the decision had been made to issue more stock,
and the CEO replied that no decision had been made, and the
company was just exploring its options as it looked to raise
money.  A spokeswoman for Punch Taverns yesterday declined to
comment on the FSA fine or the case.  Einhorn, who said he turned over a tape of the conversation
to the FSA, said the experience would cause him to “rethink our
efforts when speaking with UK companies.”  At the end of the call, Einhorn said he told the CEO that
he planned to sell his shares. The CEO offered to tell him more
if he signed the non-disclosure agreement, and again Einhorn
declined, the hedge fund manager said.  “This resembles  insider trading  as much as soccer
resembles football,” said Einhorn.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at   lfortado@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Moshinsky in London at   bmoshinsky@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net . 