-- Guerrilla Retreat Leads to IPO as Colombia’s Condor Seeks Highway Funding
-- B y   B l a k e   S c h m i d t
-- 2012-01-26T21:02:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/guerrilla-retreat-leads-to-ipo-as-colombia-s-condor-seeks-highway-funding.html
Construcciones El Condor SA , a
Medellin-based construction company, aims to raise as much as
200 billion pesos ($111 million) in an initial public offering
to help finance Bogota’s airport expansion and jungle highway
projects in areas once overrun by guerrillas.  Proceeds from a sale in the first quarter will help fund a
backlog of 1.3 trillion pesos in projects, including the
airport, Luz Maria Correa, the company’s president, said in an
interview. Condor will bid on new contracts as  Colombia  works to
improve roads and bridges to take full advantage of a U.S. free-
trade accord approved by lawmakers in October, she said.  “Colombia’s infrastructure is way behind and the shipping
routes must be improved ahead of the free-trade agreement,”
Correa said yesterday in an interview in Bogota.  The South American country will need 99 trillion pesos of
infrastructure development by 2021, according to a  September
report  by the Transportation Ministry. A surge in foreign direct
investment is helping spark the fastest economic growth in five
years as new areas of the countryside open up to oil and mining
exploration after a decade of military victories over
guerrillas.  Condor is one of at least five companies that have said
they may offer shares this year in Bogota. Companies issued more
than $7 billion in a record nine Colombian share offerings last
year, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The benchmark IGBC Index of stocks fell 0.4 percent to
13,597.21 today, trimming its gain this year to 7.4 percent. The
measure dropped 18 percent last year.  Infrastructure Surge  Condor shares will give investors exposure to Colombia’s
surge in building, said  Rupert Stebbings , a director for Celfin
Capital in Medellin. Shares of Grupo Odinsa SA, which joined
with Condor in 2010 to win a 1.1 trillion peso bid to pave a
highway that runs to the borders of Panama and  Venezuela , have
risen 10 percent in the past 12 months, compared with a 10
percent drop in the country’s benchmark stock index. Condor is a
minority shareholder in Odinsa.  “Construction in this country will be a driver of growth
for the next five to 10 years,” Stebbings said.
“Infrastructure are the big elephant projects that could last
10 to 20 years.”  Condor’s profit in the first nine months of 2011 fell 33
percent from a year ago to 18.3 billion pesos as operating
revenue fell 13 percent to 150 billion pesos, according to e-
mailed results from the company. Correa said total 2011 profit
and revenue will grow from the year before as highway projects 
bolster fourth-quarter earnings.  Darien Gap  Condor is part Vias de las Americas SAS, a consortium
that also includes  Odinsa (ODINSA)  and Valorcon SA, which won in 2010
the contract for the Transversal de Las Americas highway that
would improve road networks between Colombia’s borders with
Panama and Venezuela. Correa said the company seeks to build a
second phase of that project which, if approved by the
government, would complete the Panamerican highway network that
stretches from  Alaska  to  Chile  by building a road through the
Darien gap along the jungle-laden Panama border.  The company’s current projects include road work in the
southern Colombian regions of Putumayo and Narino and logistics
at a  coal mine  in northern Colombia. Condor also plans to bid on
future projects for a hydroelectric dam and a $350 million water
treatment plant near Medellin, Correa said.  Politics, bureaucratic delays and heavy rains are the
biggest risk factors for Condor, said Jorge Zuniga, an analyst
at Interbolsa SA, Colombia’s biggest brokerage.  Halted Construction  “Floods, particularly in northern Colombia, halted
construction of many projects last year and now companies are
playing catch-up,” Zuniga said by phone from Medellin.  Colombia’s new Environment Minister Frank Pearl suspended
on Jan. 12 work on a tunnel of Condor’s near Medellin for 90
days to review its environmental impact study.  The Transversal de Las Americas, which faced an attorney
general’s investigation after the contract was awarded in 2010,
has yet to get off the ground and remains in the design phase,
Correa said.  Colombian construction company Constructora Conconcreto SA
dropped 18 percent last year as moratoriums on public bids
during the electoral period and permit delays cut into revenue,
Zuniga said.  President  Juan Manuel Santos  created last November the
National Infrastructure Agency to streamline public bidding
processes for infrastructure projects. Zuniga said Condor is
positioned to benefit from expedited public bids and demand for
improved shipping routes.  Economic Growth  Bancolombia (BCOLO)  SA’s investment banking unit will help manage
the Condor share offering.  Colombia’s economy expanded 7.7 percent in the third
quarter, the fastest pace since 2006, driven by a surge of
spending on roads, energy and mining infrastructure projects.  Bancolombia, Colombia’s biggest bank, is offering as much
as $883 million worth of shares in a sale that ends Jan. 27.
 Ecopetrol SA (ECOPETL) , Carvajal SA and Contourglobal Latam SA are among
companies that have expressed interest in selling shares in
Colombia in 2012.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Blake Schmidt in Bogota at 
 bschmidt16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  