-- Tiger Woods Is Three Back of Leaders McIlroy, Karlsson at Abu Dhabi Golf
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-26T15:10:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/tiger-woods-is-three-back-of-leaders-mcilroy-karlsson-at-abu-dhabi-golf.html
Rory McIlroy and  Robert Karlsson 
share a one-stroke lead at the Abu Dhabi HSBC Golf Championship,
with  Tiger Woods  three shots back in his season debut.  McIlroy, the U.S. Open champion from  Northern Ireland , and
Karlsson, from Sweden, each shot 5-under-par 67 on the opening
day at Abu Dhabi Golf Club to lead Northern Ireland’s Gareth
Maybin, England’s Richard Finch and France’s Jean-Baptiste
Gonnet.  Woods, playing in a group with McIlroy and Luke Donald of
England, shot 70 in his first event since ending a 749-day
victory drought last month. Donald, No. 1 in the  Official World
Golf Ranking , shot 71.  Starting on the 10th hole, McIlroy birdied three of his
first four holes. After two bogeys, he made another birdie at
the 18th after hitting his second shot into a hospitality tent.
He added three more birdies on his second nine holes.  “It’s a nice way to start the competitive season I
suppose,” said McIlroy, ranked third in the world. “I didn’t
feel like I played that good. I definitely didn’t strike the
ball as good as I have been the last couple of weeks.”  Karlsson, also starting on the back nine, opened his round
with two bogeys and two birdies. He had five birdies, with no
bogeys, the rest of the way.  Woods had two birdies, at the par-4 11th and par-3 fourth,
in a bogey-free round. The 14-time major champion, playing in
 Abu Dhabi  for the first time, said he had trouble reading putts.  “The greens are pretty grainy and I had a hard time
getting a feel for it,” he told reporters. “Towards the end, I
hit some really good putts but overall I got fooled on a lot of
my reads.”  Donald started with eight pars before back-to-back birdies.
He bogeyed his 16th hole and finished with two pars.  Three golfers are tied at 3-under, with Masters Tournament
champion Charl Schwartzel of  South Africa  among nine others
joining Woods at 2-under. Second-ranked Lee Westwood of England
shot 72, while No. 4 Martin Kaymer of Germany finished with a 5-
over-par 77.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 