-- Illumina Adopts ‘Poison Pill’ to Block Roche’s Hostile Takeover Offer
-- B y   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-26T23:18:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/illumina-adopts-rights-plan-to-block-hostile-roche-5-7-billion-takeover.html
Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  is granting investors
the right to buy shares at half the price in a so-called poison-
pill defense, following  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s hostile $5.7 billion
bid for the maker of gene-mapping tools.  Shareholders will receive one preferred stock purchase
right as a dividend for each common share held as of the close
of business Feb. 6, San Diego-based Illumina said in a statement
today. Investors will also have the right to purchase $550 in
common shares for $275, or, assuming a price of $55 a share, 10
common shares at that price. The rights won’t be exercisable
initially, Illumina said. The strategy can block an unwanted bid
by making it prohibitively expensive.  “Although not unexpected, Roche is disappointed that the
Illumina Board of Directors has been unwilling to participate in
substantive discussions,” Basel, Switzerland-based Roche said
today in a statement. “Roche’s all-cash offer represents a
substantial premium and Roche is confident that Illumina
shareholders will see the value of the offer.”  Illumina is bolstering its takeover defenses as Roche
prepares an attempt to oust the company’s board. Roche plans to
nominate six directors at the annual shareholders meeting and
propose a separate vote to expand the size of the nine-member
board by two, said a person with knowledge of the matter.  “Illumina is showing its muscles,” said Jean-Francois Comte, co-founder of Lutetia Capital, which manages a $100
million event-driven fund in Paris. “It wants to either reject
the aggressor or at least obtain an acceptable price.”  15% of Stock  Should Roche or another bidder become the owner of 15
percent or more of Illumina’s stock, other shareholders will be
able to exercise the rights to buy new common stock, diluting
the stake of the prospective bidder.  In its response, Roche repeated its plan announced
yesterday to take a $44.50-a-share offer directly to Illumina
shareholders because the California company’s executives were
unwilling to hold serious negotiations.  Illumina shares peaked at $77.88 in July, and have averaged
$54.33 in the past year. Illumina fell 4.5 percent to $52.65 at
the close in  New York .  “The Illumina board has taken this action to ensure that
our stockholders receive fair treatment and protection in
connection with any proposal or offer to acquire the company,
including the proposal announced by Roche,” said Illumina Chief
Executive Officer Jay Flatley in the statement.  Time for Shareholders  The rights agreement will “provide stockholders with
adequate time to properly assess any such proposal or offer
without undue pressure while also safeguarding their opportunity
to realize the long-term value of their investment in the
company,” he said.  Four of Illumina’s nine directors on the board are due to
stand for re-election at this year’s meeting, someone with
knowledge of the matter said.  If shareholders support Roche’s proposals, the Swiss
company’s nominees would hold a majority of seats on the board,
this person said. Illumina hasn’t yet scheduled a date for the
meeting, which in the past has been held in March or April.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  