-- Babacan Dismisses IMF Forecasts, Predicts Turkish Economy to Expand 4%
-- B y   S t e v e   B r y a n t
-- 2012-01-26T11:11:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/imf-says-turkish-gdp-growth-may-slow-to-average-0-4-percent-in-2012.html
Turkey  stands by its forecast of 4
percent growth this year, Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan
said, dismissing International Monetary Fund projections that
the economy may barely expand.  The global environment is uncertain and there are major
decisions to be taken in developed nations in the next four or
five weeks that could change the outlook completely, Babacan
said in a televised interview from Davos today. The IMF is
“generally more negative” on European growth prospects than
other bodies and Turkey sees no need to change its forecasts, he
said.  Turkish economic growth may slow to an average of 0.4
percent this year, from 8.3 percent in 2011, according to the
 report  prepared by IMF staff for a meeting of officials from the
Group of 20 developed economies in Mexico City on Jan. 19. In
the fourth quarter of 2012, the economy may contract 0.2
percent, it said. The projections don’t necessarily reflect the
views of the IMF executive board, the report said.  This year will see the Turkish economy “walking, not
running,” Babacan said. “We won’t allow the economy to fall
into recession.”  The fund’s forecasts stress downside risk and Turkey can
“comfortably” achieve the government’s goal of 4 percent
growth, central bank Governor Erdem Basci said today in an
interview from Davos with BloombergHT television.  The economy may expand between 1 percent and 2 percent this
year, IMF Deputy Managing Director Zhu Min said yesterday,
according to the CNBC-e news channel.  “Growth in G-20 emerging economies is slowing more than
expected,” the IMF report for the G-20 meeting said. Export
growth is contracting and the “sharpest declines have been
recorded in emerging  Europe , reflecting close linkages to the
euro area.”  About half of Turkish exports go to Europe.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steve Bryant in Ankara at 
 sbryant5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  