-- Incredible Shrinking Bankers at Davos Humbler Amid Austerity
-- B y   C h r i s t i n e   H a r p e r
-- 2012-01-27T13:28:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/incredible-shrinking-bankers-at-davos-humbler-as-austerity-hits.html
Leaders of the world’s biggest banks
touted the virtues of austerity at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos -- for themselves, not just for over-indebted governments.  Many arrived in the Swiss Alps following a year marked by
weak revenue, declining stock prices and cuts in jobs and
compensation. The finance and banking industries remain the
“least trusted” for the second consecutive year, according to
a 20-country survey released earlier this week by public
relations firm Edelman.  “Last year every bank thought they could grow their way
out of trouble,” Huw van Steenis, who oversees European bank
research for  Morgan Stanley (MS)  in  London , said between meetings
with investors and policy makers in Davos. “Now they realize
they have to shrink their way out of trouble.”  Financial companies, mainly in Western  Europe  and the U.S.,
have announced more than 238,000 job cuts since last year’s
meeting in Davos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Bank
of America Corp. (BAC) ,  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) , and  HSBC Holdings Plc (HSBA)  are
among banks selling businesses and slimming down as they adapt
to  capital requirements  approved by the Basel Committee on
Banking Supervision, new national regulations and a slowdown in
economic growth in Europe.  ‘Powerful Concentration’  “Challenging times for the financial-services industry
overall, so it’s hard not to be cautious,”  Anshu Jain , 49, who
takes over as Deutsche Bank’s co-chief executive officer in May,
said in an interview with Bloomberg Television. “There’s going
to be, and is, powerful consolidation within our industry.”  Deutsche Bank, the biggest German lender, is considering a
sale of its asset-management unit as it raises capital to adapt
to Basel rules. The Frankfurt-based lender is reducing costs
globally and said in October it will cut 500 jobs from its
corporate banking and securities unit by March 31.  A year ago, bankers in Davos were trying to persuade
regulators to relax new regulations, arguing that banks that
held less capital and were subject to fewer restrictions would
be an aid to economic growth. Those arguments weren’t
successful, said  Barclays Plc (BARC)  CEO  Robert Diamond  in an interview
before a private meeting of finance executives yesterday.
Barclays announced 422 U.K. job cuts earlier this month.  Striking a Balance  “In 2011, as we left Davos, there was optimism about
making real progress on the regulatory environment,” said
Diamond, 60, co-chair of last year’s finance executives’
meeting. “In striking the balance between a safer and sounder
financial system and jobs and economic growth, the progress has
been more on safe and sound.”  Concern about European politicians’ ability to reduce
government debt is the dominant discussion in Davos this year.
While most bankers, including Jain and Diamond, said they are
comforted by the  European Central Bank ’s decision last month to
extend three-year loans to the region’s banks, no one expressed
certainty about what will happen next.  “The European overhang is real, and while the sentiment
has improved a lot, it’s still with us,”  Citigroup Inc. (C)  CEO
Vikram Pandit, 55, said in an interview with CNBC yesterday.
“We’re going to be very cautious.”  Brian Moynihan, Bank of America Corp.’s CEO, said in an
interview with Bloomberg Television today that the
“disruption” in the market at the end of last year appears to
have abated.  “It’s behind us in the sense that it’s a new year and the
business has rebounded,” Moynihan, 52, said.  ‘Naive’ Complaints  Morgan Stanley CEO  James Gorman , attending the conference
for the first time this year, said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television that bankers are “naïve” if they don’t
understand why the industry has to pay less to employees.  “The banking industry has gone through a fundamental
change, and we have to adjust,” Gorman, 53, said. “When we
come out of this and we start re-performing, obviously
compensation will reflect that. Until then, we have to respect
the fact that shareholders have to get paid, too.”  Banks have to regain the public’s trust by serving clients,
not themselves, Citigroup’s Pandit said at a press conference to
open the meeting on Jan. 25. Citigroup, the third-biggest  U.S.
bank  by assets, last week announced 1,200 job cuts to save $600
million in its securities and banking division this year.
Reductions that began late last year eventually will total
5,000, Chief Financial Officer  John Gerspach  told reporters last
week. That’s about 1.9 percent of the company’s 266,000
employees as of Dec. 31.  Trusting Bankers  Pandit’s comments dovetailed with a report released this
week by consulting firm Oliver Wyman, which found that 63
percent of people polled globally last month trust no one other
than themselves to manage their retirement savings. Banks were
trusted by less than 8 percent of those surveyed in the U.K. and
the U.S., the study showed.  In order to regain trust, banks will have to offer simpler
products that appear to offer value for money, according to the
study. To do that, lenders and insurers will probably cut one
quarter of their costs over the next eight years by delivering
products online instead of through branches.  One of the report’s conclusions is that financial companies
that aren’t banks -- the so-called shadow-banking system that
includes insurers and hedge funds -- may be better suited than
regulated banks to provide long-term credit to companies and
homeowners. The  Oliver Wyman  survey found that more people in
the U.S. and the U.K. said they trusted asset managers than
banks to manage their retirement savings.  That may explain the choice of music at the end of a
private governors meeting for investors, including  Daniel Loeb ,
CEO of hedge fund Third Point LLC, and  Louis Bacon , CEO of Moore
Capital Management LLC. The group, which met for four hours
yesterday and heard from U.S. Treasury Secretary  Timothy F. Geithner  and former Bundesbank President  Axel Weber , wrapped up
their session to the tune of Amy Winehouse’s “Rehab.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christine Harper in Davos, Switzerland, on 
 charper@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Otis Bilodeau at 
 obilodeau@bloomberg.net . 