-- Index of U.S. Leading Economic Indicators Rises a Third Consecutive Month
-- B y   S h o b h a n a   C h a n d r a
-- 2012-01-26T15:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/index-of-u-s-leading-economic-indicators-rises-for-third-month.html
The index of U.S. leading indicators
rose in December for a third month, indicating the world’s
largest economy will keep growing in early 2012.  The Conference Board’s gauge of the outlook for the next
three to six months increased 0.4 percent after climbing 0.2
percent in November, the New York-based group said today. The
median forecast of 44 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
called for a gain of 0.7 percent. Today’s report marked the
first time since 1996 that the components of the index changed.  Gains in manufacturing and consumer spending, the biggest
part of the economy, are sustaining the expansion. At the same
time, the European debt crisis threatens to limit growth,
helping explain why the Federal Reserve yesterday said it’ll
keep the benchmark  interest rate  low until at least late 2014.  “Economic activity picked up toward the end of 2011,”
 Stuart Hoffman , chief economist at PNC Financial Services
Group Inc. in Pittsburgh, said before the report. “This
provides support for our forecast for continued but moderate
economic expansion in 2012.”  Changes in the components of the leading index were
announced earlier this month. Instead of the inflation-adjusted
 money supply , the Conference Board used its own Leading Credit
Index, which aggregates measures of the yield curve, interest-
rate swaps and the Fed’s senior loan officer survey. The
 Institute for Supply Management ’s supplier deliveries gauge was
replaced by the group’s index of new orders.  Components Change  In place of the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan’s
measure of consumer expectations, the Conference Board’s new
index included an equally weighted average of the Michigan
reading and its own measure. The Commerce Department’s gauge of
orders for non-defense capital goods was replaced by the one
that excludes commercial aircraft.  Estimates of economists in the Bloomberg survey ranged from
gains of 0.5 percent to 1.1 percent.  Seven of the 10 indicators in the leading index contributed
to the increase, led by the spread between short- and long-term
interest rates, an improvement in claims and gain in the factory
workweek.  The Conference Board’s index of coincident indicators, a
gauge of current economic activity, increased 0.3 percent after
a 0.1 percent advance in the prior month.  The coincident index tracks payrolls, incomes, sales and
production -- the measures used by the  National Bureau of
Economic Research  to determine the beginning and end of U.S.
recessions.  The gauge of lagging indicators increased 0.3 percent.  Jobless Claims  An improving labor market is helping boost the outlook for
growth.  Applications (INJCJC)  for unemployment insurance payments dropped
two weeks ago to the lowest level in almost four years,
according to data from the Labor Department. Claims increased
last week, displaying the usual volatility around the holiday
season, a report today showed.  Consumer confidence  is also steadying as fewer firings help
ease concern about higher gasoline prices. The  Bloomberg
Consumer Comfort (COMFCOMF)  Index was minus 46.4 in the period ended Jan.
22 after minus 47.4 the prior week.  Among other signs of an expanding economy, orders for
durable goods rose more than forecast in December, led by demand
for aircraft, autos and business equipment, Commerce Department
data showed today. Bookings for goods meant to last at least
three years climbed 3 percent after a revised 4.3 percent gain
the prior month that was more than previously estimated. The
Bloomberg survey median projection was a 2 percent increase.  Sales Improve  Companies benefiting from rising sales include  United
Technologies Corp. (UTX)  The Hartford, Connecticut-based company said
yesterday that its fourth-quarter profit climbed 11 percent as
jet production at aircraft makers drove demand for commercial
aerospace parts.  “There are some positive signs that the economic recovery
looks to be gaining traction, especially here in the U.S.,”
Chief Financial Officer Greg Hayes said on a Jan. 25 conference
call. Still, “there’s plenty of uncertainty out there in the
world economy.”  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday at a news
conference that the recovery remains “fragile.” The central
bank extended its previous pledge to keep rates low as inflation
remains tame and more than two years of economic growth have
failed to push unemployment below 8.5 percent.  “Economic conditions -- including low rates of resource
utilization and subdued outlook for inflation over the medium
run -- are likely to warrant exceptionally low levels for the
federal funds rate at least through late 2014,” Fed policy
makers said in a statement released in  Washington  yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shobhana Chandra in Washington at 
 schandra1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  