-- Indonesia May Expand Less Than 6% on Europe
-- B y   H i d a y a t   S e t i a j i   a n d   N o v r i d a   M a n u r u n g
-- 2012-01-26T01:18:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/indonesia-may-expand-less-than-6-on-europe.html
Indonesia ’s economic growth may slow
to less than 6 percent in 2012 if  Europe  suffers a severe
recession, said Bambang Brodjonegoro, the head of fiscal policy
at the nation’s finance ministry.  Gross domestic product  may increase as little as 5.7
percent this year after an expansion of about 6.5 percent in
2011, Brodjonegoro said in an interview with Bloomberg News in
Jakarta yesterday said. The government will increase spending to
bolster growth and limit the impact of a global slowdown, he
said.  Asian policy makers have shifted their focus to shielding
growth, rather than stemming inflation, as Europe’s sovereign
woes and a struggling U.S. economy increase the risk of another
global recession. The U.S. Federal Reserve said yesterday it is
considering additional asset purchases as it extended its pledge
to keep  interest rates  low through at least late 2014.  “We will boost government spending especially in
infrastructure and domestic consumption to offset the slowdown
in exports and investment amid the global turmoil,” Brodjonegoro
said. “Our economic growth is still fairly healthy.”  Demand for Indonesian assets has risen after Moody’s
Investors Service raised the country’s credit rating to
investment grade on Jan. 18.  Fitch Ratings  brought Indonesia
back to investment grade last month after 14 years of junk
ratings. The rupiah rose 0.3 percent as of 7:52 a.m. in Jakarta
today, according to prices from local banks compiled by
Bloomberg.  Capital inflows into Southeast Asia’s largest economy
are expected to increase after the rating upgrades and investors
will probably seek holdings in Indonesian assets other than its
capital markets and  government bonds , Brodjonegoro said. The
investment grade ranking will also help lenders get cheaper
loans from overseas banks, he said.  The government is meeting officials from  Standard & Poor’s 
in March to discuss the nation’s economic progress, Brodjonegoro
said. S&P still rates Indonesia one level below investment grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hidayat Setiaji in Jakarta at 
 hsetiaji@bloomberg.net ;
Novrida Manurung in Jakarta at 
 nmanurung@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 Sadam2@bloomberg.net  