-- Turkish Lira Advances to 2 1/2-Month High, Bonds Rally on Fed Rate Outlook
-- B y   S e l c u k   G o k o l u k
-- 2012-01-26T16:19:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/lira-rises-bonds-rally-as-fed-decision-eases-deficit-concern.html
The lira gained to its strongest
level in 2 1/2 months and bonds rallied the most in seven years
after the  Federal Reserve  signaled plans to maintain near-zero
 interest rates  through 2014, easing investors’ concern that the
funding of  Turkey ’s current-account deficit.  The Turkish currency appreciated 1 percent 1.7879 per
dollar as of 5:05 p.m. in Istanbul, from yesterday’s close in
 New York . That the highest level since Nov. 15. The yield on
benchmark two-year debt fell 75 basis points, or 0.75 percentage
point, to 9.62 percent, in the biggest fall since at least 2005
when Bloomberg started tracking the index.  “As long as the Fed is flooding the market with liquidity,
capital inflows to Turkey are likely to continue, which are
necessary to finance the current-account deficit,” Thu Lan Nguyen, a currency strategist at Commerzbank AG in  Frankfurt ,
said in e-mailed comments.  The Fed said yesterday it sees “exceptionally low”
interest rates through 2014, having previously pledged to
refrain from raising borrowing costs until at least the middle
of 2013. Turkish yields soared 390 basis points last year, the
most since 2006, and the lira weakened 18 percent against the
dollar in the biggest depreciation worldwide as a widening
 current-account deficit  hurt investor confidence.  “The current account deficit will be easily financed in
this environment and rates look too cheap,” Bugra Bilgi, a
hedge fund manager at Garanti Asset Management in Istanbul said,
in e-mailed comments.  Deficit Narrows  The Fed’s plan will provide more liquidity to be used for
“carry trades for a long time,” Tufan Comert, a strategist at
Garanti Securities, said in a client note. Investors should sell
the  U.S. dollar  versus the lira at levels above 1.80, saying the
lira may appreciate to 1.75 per dollar, he said.  The Turkish current-account deficit narrowed in November
for the first time in two years, bringing the cumulative 12-
month total to $77.8 billion, still equivalent to about 10
percent of gross domestic product. A shortfall of that scale
represents a risk to economic stability,  Fitch Ratings  said in
November.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Selcuk Gokoluk in Istanbul at 
 sgokoluk@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  