-- Iran to Fix Rial Rate at 12,260 to Dollar, Central Bank Governor Says
-- B y   L a d a n e   N a s s e r i
-- 2012-01-26T14:23:31Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/iran-central-bank-will-devalue-rial-8-5-against-dollar-as-sanctions-bite.html
Iran  plans to devalue the rial by
about 8.5 percent against the  U.S. dollar , setting a new
 exchange rate  and vowing to reduce the black market’s influence
as international sanctions undermine confidence in the currency.  Iran will fix the rial rate at 12,260 to the dollar as of
Jan. 28 and seek to meet all demand for foreign currencies
through banks, state-run Mehr news agency  reported , citing
central bank Governor Mahmoud Bahmani. The reference exchange
rate on the central bank’s website today was 11,296 per dollar.  With the modified policy, “people will no longer need to
use free markets to access dollars,” Bahmani said today,
according to Mehr.  The decision follows an announcement yesterday that the
 interest rate  paid on rial savings will be raised. Iranian
authorities are fighting to stabilize the currency amid domestic
concern that the government may be unable to maintain economic
stability as international pressure on the country over its
nuclear program grows.  “Iranian consumers have been losing confidence in the rial
very rapidly and this is aimed at restoring some stability,”
Meir Javedanfar, a lecturer on Iranian politics at the Herzliya
Interdisciplinary Center, said by telephone. “Whether
it works is another matter. Experience shows the economic plans
of the Ahmadinejad government don’t always work the way they
want.”  Currency Reserves  President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said today that the country
has $90 billion in foreign-currency reserves earned from the
sale of oil.  Iranians had already been paying far more than the central
bank’s reference rate for dollars. The currency strengthened on
local markets to about 19,000 from a record 23,000 per dollar
after the announcement of higher interest rates, Donya-e-Eqtesed
newspaper reported today.  The announcement about changes in currency management comes
three days after European Union foreign ministers announced more
sanctions to ratchet up the pressure on  Iran’s nuclear program .
The EU will ban Iranian oil imports from July and freeze assets
of the central bank and eight other entities. The U.S. has also
curbed financial transactions with Iran and its officials are
touring the world to boost support for the measures.  Iran yesterday raised interest rates on  savings accounts  to
as much as 21 percent from between 12.5 percent and 15 percent.
The new rate is set to be higher than inflation of 20.6 percent,
said Kazem Delkosh, a central bank official.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ladane Nasseri in Dubai at 
 lnasseri@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  