-- It Takes a CEO to Save the U.S. Health-Care System: Darrell Moon
-- B y   D a r r e l l   M o o n
-- 2012-01-26T00:00:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/it-takes-a-ceo-to-save-the-u-s-health-care-system-darrell-moon.html
Forget  Washington  and the political
debate over Obamacare. The real battle for the future of health
care is being fought in the world of business, where tens of
thousands of companies have seen their financial well-being
undermined by skyrocketing employee health costs.  Although few people realize it, employee health costs have
now become the third-largest expenditure for U.S. businesses
today, constituting a whopping 8 percent of  total compensation .
And they are rising fast, more than  doubling  in just the last
decade to  more than  $15,000 a year for family coverage. Of that
cost, 73 percent is paid by the employer.  Yet most chief executive officers are curiously passive,
failing to employ even the most basic management tools and
market incentives to deal with the problem. Employees and
employers alike -- but first and foremost the boss -- need to be
held accountable for reducing the cost burden that is damaging
so many companies’ bottom lines.  Here are seven things that CEOs can do:  No. 1: Give incentives to insurance brokers.  Most employers buy their health insurance through brokers
who make more money when the plan costs more. Not exactly a
smart way to get market forces working in your favor. Better to
pay brokers on a fee-for-service basis. Better still to offer
them a bonus tied to the amount by which they can reduce a
plan’s costs, not a plan’s benefits.  No. 2: Give incentives to your managers.  Every CEO learned in business school that if you want to
achieve a key business objective -- be it launching a new
product or reducing company health costs -- you need to provide
incentives to managers to help you succeed. Yet rare is the boss
who offers bonuses to human-resources and benefits managers who
reduce claims costs for the company. It’s long past the time for
CEOs to get the incentives working in the right direction inside
their companies, as well.  No. 3: Give incentives to healthier employees.  A major source of rising workplace-health costs is the
declining fitness of employees. As a new  Gallup poll  reports, an
astonishing six of every seven full-time employees in the U.S.
(or 86 percent) are overweight or suffer from a chronic health
condition. This is a terrible waste of human capital and an
enormous burden on the bottom line, costing employers more than
$153 billion a year in absenteeism alone -- four times the per-
capita, lost-productivity cost in the U.K.  We already know that wellness programs can reduce employer
expenses. A  study  in 2010 by Harvard health economist Katherine Baicker found that medical costs fall by $3.27 for every dollar
spent on wellness programs, and absenteeism costs fall by $2.73
for every dollar spent.  A new breed of accountability-based wellness programs can
deliver even bigger savings. In these types of initiatives,
participants willing to be held responsible for their health-
related lifestyles pay a reduced contribution toward their
premium -- often half that paid by non-participants. Those with
identified health risks must work with a coach to make lifestyle
changes to keep receiving the lower premium. A recent  study  we
conducted of accountability-based programs at four mid-size
employers found that the total paid claims of program
participants dropped to $2,269 compared with $6,187 for non-
participants.  The point here is that CEOs can’t keep handing out
unlimited health benefits without strings attached. Employees
who don’t even try to modify their health risks should pay more.  No. 4: Employ disease-management programs to target the
costliest health risks.  Most employers assume that smokers have the highest claim
costs, which is why  Wal-Mart Stores Inc. (WMT)  recently added a
$2,000-a-year surcharge to the premiums of employees who smoke.
But their claims are only 15 percent to 20 percent higher than
those of non-smokers. The claim costs of depressed employees,
however, are a whopping 70 percent higher than those for non-
depressed employees, according to  research  from the non-profit
Health Enhancement Research Organization, which studies the
impact of modifiable behavior on employee health costs. Disease-
management interventions are effective, but most focus only on
physical-health risks. The best way for CEOs to deal with
higher-cost risks, such as depression, is to promote wider
utilization of employee-assistance programs that can provide
early intervention and counseling to employees.  No. 5: Stop getting ripped off by pharmacy-benefit
managers, or PBMs.  According to  David Balto , a former policy director at the
Federal Trade Commission, “There is no part of the health-care
industry more egregious, harmful or rife with corruption than
PBMs,” an industry whose profits have increased 400 percent in
the past five years. Legal actions brought by multiple state
attorneys general have resulted in $370 million in fines for
PBMs accused of deceptive trade practices and receiving
manufacturer kickbacks that boost the cost of company-paid
prescriptions. Use one of the new breed of  transparent PBMs  that
provide health-plan members and administrators with drug price
sheets and claims data to help them manage their prescription
costs, or pick an insurer that does.  No. 6: Join with other companies and with providers to
reduce costs.  The  Employer Health Care Alliance Cooperative of Wisconsin 
is an employer-owned cooperative that helps 160 member
businesses manage health costs by bringing their collective
bargaining power to the table when negotiating with insurers and
health-care providers.  You can also join directly with providers. The natural-gas
company Questar Corp. contracted with the University of Utah’s
Neuropsychiatric Institute and its network of providers 11 years
ago for all mental-health services for Questar’s 1,700
employees. Because the employer’s and provider’s incentives were
aligned, Questar’s costs have stayed the same, even while health
costs elsewhere have doubled.  No. 7: Pay for results, not for services.  Walt Disney Co., American Express Co., Qualcomm Inc. and
other companies are building onsite medical clinics and often
paying their doctors bonuses for reducing employees’ health
risks. This gets results.  As  Warren Buffett  told CNBC in March 2010, “Insurance is
not the problem. The problem is incentives.” He added, “We’ve
got payment for procedures and not payment for results.”  Author and health-care industry thought leader Joe Flower
says, “We could have better health care at half the cost,
without denying care to anyone, just by driving economic
incentives back into the system.”  Washington can’t do that, so it’s up to CEOs to make it
happen.  (Darrell Moon is CEO of Orriant, a wellness-program
provider serving companies nationwide. The opinions expressed
are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Darrell Moon at  darrell@orriant.com   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  