-- Italian Consumer Confidence Stays at Lowest Level for 16 Years in January
-- B y   C h i a r a   V a s a r r i
-- 2012-01-26T09:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/italian-consumer-confidence-remains-at-16-year-low-in-january.html
Italian  consumer confidence  held at
a 16-year low in January as  Europe ’s debt crisis forced
austerity measures that may help push the economy into a
recession this year.  The confidence index remained at 91.6, matching the
previous month, which was the lowest since January 1996,
national statistics office Istat said in Rome today. Economists
had forecast a reading of 92, according to the  median  of 16
estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  Household confidence is slumping after the government
implemented additional austerity measures that aim to eliminate
the  budget deficit  in 2013 to shield Italy from the fallout from
the debt crisis that sent the country’s borrowing costs to euro-
era records. The 20 billion-euro ($26 billion) plan passed in
December includes a cut in pension spending, a crack down on tax
evasion and higher levies on fuel, leaving Italy with Europe’s
highest gasoline prices.  The measures have helped bring down Italian borrowing costs
since Prime Minister  Mario Monti  came to power in November,
while they are adding to the country’s economic slowdown.  Italy may be in its fourth recession since 2001, after the
country’s growth averaged 0.2 percent annually in the decade to
2010, compared with 1.1 percent in the euro area. The
 International Monetary Fund  forecast on Jan. 24 that the economy
will shrink 2.2 percent this year, compared with a 0.5 percent
contraction for the euro area.  Monti said this week that his efforts have been
“appreciated” by European colleagues. Still, many Italians
have rejected his appeal to accept sacrifices. A wildcat strike
by truck drivers this week has clogged traffic on Italian
highways, disrupting Fiat SpA’s production and leaving some
cities short of gasoline and food.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Vasarri in  Rome  at 
 cvasarri@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  