-- Mitsubishi UFJ Targets Japan M&A Boom to Lift Bond Deal Share
-- B y   T a k a h i k o   H y u g a
-- 2012-01-26T03:33:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/mitsubishi-ufj-targets-japan-m-a-boom-to-lift-bond-deal-share.html
Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group Inc. (8306) ,
 Japan ’s biggest banking group, expects the country’s acquisition
boom to revive demand for corporate bonds and help boost its
share of the  debt market .  Mitsubishi UFJ, which tied up with Morgan Stanley in May
2010 to boost  investment banking  business, is targeting
companies that plan to buy overseas assets for potential bond
underwriting deals, said Hajime Suwa, head of debt capital
markets at  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co.   “Cross-border acquisitions by Japanese firms are now the
mainstream,” Suwa said in an interview in Tokyo. “We need to
make the most of this trend, as many companies intend to raise
funds for acquisitions by issuing bonds.”  The Tokyo-based joint venture’s share of the Japanese debt
underwriting market hovered at 22 percent last year, slightly
lower than the year before it was formed, as firms stockpiled
cash and shunned debt amid an economic  slowdown . Debt offerings
in the country fell 8.6 percent last year, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Companies tapped cash and the strong yen
to make the most overseas acquisitions in more than a decade.  Mitsubishi UFJ  Morgan Stanley (MS)  was the country’s No. 1 bond
underwriter last year, including self-led offerings, with the
sales last year valued at 2.9 trillion yen ($37 billion),
compared with 3.5 trillion yen in 2009.  Mizuho Financial Group
Inc. (8411)  ranked second last year and  Nomura Holdings Inc. (8604)  was third.  M&A Market  Japanese companies last year acquired the most overseas
assets since at least 2000, with about 800 cross-border deals
worth $88.7 billion, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley last year sold a total of 70
billion yen of bonds for  Kirin Holdings Co. (2503) , Japan’s biggest
brewer, Suwa said. The beverage maker acquired Brazilian
beermaker Schincariol Participacoes e Representacoes last year
for $4.4 billion.  Companies in the Topix Index have 97.8 trillion yen of cash,
up from 79.5 trillion yen three years ago, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Other cross-border deals in 2011 included
 Takeda Pharmaceutical Co. (4502) ’s purchase of Swiss drugmaker Nycomed
for 9.6 billion euros ($12.6 billion) in cash, the largest
overseas acquisition made by a Japanese company that year.  In 2009, before Mitsubishi UFJ and Morgan Stanley formed
the joint venture, their combined share of corporate bond
underwriting in Japan was 22.1 percent. The Japanese bank ranked
second in that year.  Nakamura’s Goal  Suwa’s drive to boost market share follows goals set by
Haruo Nakamura, who leads investment banking at Mitsubishi UFJ.
Nakamura told about 200 managers at a meeting in Tokyo on Oct. 7
that the firm aims to raise its portion of Japanese corporate
bond underwriting, according to Hiroaki Konishi, a Tokyo-based
spokesman at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley.  To propel the business managing bond sales for companies
seeking takeovers, bankers from Suwa’s division will hold weekly
meetings with the mergers and acquisitions team, he said.  Suwa also aims to lure debt-selling clients away from
rivals by touting its ability to market corporate bonds to
retail investors through Mitsubishi UFJ’s 772-branch network,
Japan’s largest.  “Through our retail banking unit, companies can tap
investors who are new to corporate debt investing,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Takahiko Hyuga in  Tokyo  at 
 thyuga@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chitra Somayaji at 
 csomayaji@bloomberg.net  