-- J.C. Penney Rises as Johnson’s Profit Outlook Tops Estimates
-- B y   M a t t   T o w n s e n d   a n d   L a u r e n   C o l e m a n - L o c h n e r
-- 2012-01-26T21:49:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/j-c-penney-surges-after-saying-profit-this-year-may-beat-2010-earnings.html
J.C. Penney Co. (JCP)  climbed the most in
more than three decades after saying cost reductions from new
Chief Executive Officer  Ron Johnson ’s turnaround plan may boost
2012 profit more than analysts estimated.  The shares rose 19 percent to $40.72 at the close in New
York, the biggest gain since July 1980. The Plano, Texas-based
company rose 8.8 percent in 2011.  J.C. Penney, the fourth-largest U.S. department-store
chain, said today it may save $900 million in the next two years
as it simplifies its pricing strategy and revamps management.
The company gave a profit forecast that exceeded analysts’
estimates after changes Johnson announced yesterday failed to
impress investors and sent the shares sliding 0.9 percent.  The announced savings were “much, much greater than anyone
was anticipating,”  Liz Dunn , an analyst at Macquarie Group in
New York, told Bloomberg Television. She had estimated that the
company would trim about $600 million. J.C. Penney is ’’freeing
up a lot of dollars,’’ said Dunn, who recommends buying the
shares.  Profit in the company’s fiscal 2012 may meet or exceed the
adjusted earnings of $2.16 a share in its fiscal 2010, J.C.
Penney said today in a statement. The average of 15 analysts’
estimates compiled by Bloomberg was for profit of $1.61. The
company is scheduled to report results for its fiscal 2011,
ending this month, on Feb. 24.  Branded Shops  J.C. Penney is holding its second day of presentations to
analysts in  New York  to lay out Johnson’s plans. Chief Operating
Officer Mike Kramer today said the retailer doesn’t need outside
funding for its plan to convert its stores into a collection of
brand-specific shops that was discussed yesterday.  The company now will provide only annual profit forecasts
and quarterly same-store sales information, instead of the
monthly reports it had been releasing, Kramer said.  Johnson, 52, the former head of Apple Inc.’s stores,
yesterday said J.C. Penney will offer three types of prices and
hold 12 sales events a year. The company will offer discounted
prices on seasonal products, such as back-to-school items, and
will have so-called “best prices” promotions on the first and
third Friday every month, he said.  The strategy is risky if customers don’t view the new
prices as good value, Dunn said.  “I think with the amount of communication they’re doing,
that the customer will get it,” she said. “But it certainly
has some risk in the near term.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Matt Townsend in New York at 
 mtownsend9@bloomberg.net ;
Lauren Coleman-Lochner in New York at 
 llochner@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  