-- Janus Rises Most in Five Months as Scheid Quits, Earnings Beat Estimates
-- B y   C h r i s t o p h e r   C o n d o n
-- 2012-01-26T21:46:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/janus-rises-most-in-five-months-as-scheid-quits-earnings-beat-estimates.html
 Steven L. Scheid, the chairman of
 Janus Capital Group (JNS)  Inc. who presided over a period of turmoil
and decline at the Denver-based  money manager , will retire in
April as the company struggles to reverse investor withdrawals.  Glenn S. Schafer, 62, a director since December 2007, will
replace Scheid, 58, as chairman, the company said today in a
statement. Janus rose 5.4 percent to close at $7.99 in  New York 
 trading , the most since Dec. 29, after Scheid announced his
departure and the company reported fourth-quarter earnings of 19
cents a share, 3 cents more than the average estimate of eight
analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Scheid’s eight-year chairmanship was marked by a clash with
fund managers over the leadership of the company, the departure
of at least 15 fund managers and senior executives, a drop in
 assets under management  and a decline in Janus’s shares by more
than half. He also passed on takeover attempts by larger rivals.  “I wouldn’t rule out” renewed takeover interest in Janus,
 Michael Kim , an analyst at Sandler O’Neil & Co. in New York,
said in a telephone interview. “That’s why the stock was up 8-
plus percent, but given where they are in the cycle, I’m not
sure that it makes sense right now to look at partnering with a
bigger firm.”  Black Quits  The company conducted talks with  Franklin Resources Inc. (BEN) ,
the  San Mateo , California-based money manager, and Massachusetts
Mutual Life Insurance Co. in 2009 over their possible purchase
of Janus, said two people familiar with the matter, who asked
not to be identified because the talks were private.  Scheid and CEO Gary Black split over whether to accept an
offer, according to a Reuters report at the time, and Black quit
on July 13, 2009. Rona Gilbert, a spokeswoman for Janus,
declined to comment.  Black was replaced in February 2010 by Richard M. Weil, an
executive at Pacific Investment Management Co. in Newport Beach,
 California . Weil said during a conference call today with
analysts that Scheid’s departure didn’t indicate any change in
direction for the firm.  “Personally I don’t think this guy wants to come in and
sell this company right away,” Daniel Fannon, an analyst in the
San Francisco office of Jefferies & Co., said in a telephone
interview. “He wants the chance to turn it around.”  Weil has worked to diversify Janus’s offerings, improve
sales and cut costs.  Janus Net Income  Janus, which has about 90 percent of client assets invested
in stocks and focuses on actively managed funds, has struggled
to stop client withdrawals as investors flee equities and turn
increasingly to indexed products.  Janus today said fourth-quarter net income fell 46 percent
to $35.7 million from a year earlier as customers pulled out $4
billion in the three months ended Dec. 31, marking the 10th
consecutive quarter of redemptions.  Assets under management were $148.2 billion as of Dec. 31,
down 13 percent from a year earlier and up 5.1 percent in the
fourth quarter as $11.2 billion in market appreciation offset
the impact of investor redemptions.  Janus’s assets as of Dec. 31 were 2.2 percent lower than
eight years earlier, just before Scheid became chairman. During
the same period, the company’s shares fell 62 percent while
Franklin and Baltimore’s  T. Rowe Price Group Inc. (TROW)  rose 85
percent and 140 percent, respectively.  Employee Lawsuit  Scheid feuded with top employees. When the firm was sued by
former fund manager Ed Keely for alleged contract violations,
Scheid testified during the May 2009 trial that portfolio
managers had threatened to “smear Janus’s name in the
marketplace” if Scheid didn’t fire Black. Janus lost the case
and was ordered to pay $7.5 million in compensation and legal
costs.  Keely was one of several top managers to depart. Others
included David Corkins and Scott Schoelzel.  The departures have coincided with eroding fund
performance. Of Janus’s largest 20 stock and balanced funds,
representing $72.2 billion in assets, four beat their benchmark
index in the year ended Jan. 24, compared with nine over a
three-year period and 15 over the past five years, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg.  Schafer, a former vice chairman at Pacific Life Insurance
Co. in  Newport Beach , California, will take over April 27. He
has been a director at Janus since December 2007.  Janus has risen 27 percent this year, compared with the 5.9
percent increase for the 20-company  Standard & Poor’s   index of
asset managers and custody banks .  Janus runs the Janus, Intech and Perkins funds.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christopher Condon in Boston at 
 ccondon4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christian Baumgaertel at 
 cbaumgaertel@bloomberg.net  