-- Jetstar Japan May Expand Fleet to 100 Planes
-- B y   C h r i s   C o o p e r   a n d   K i y o t a k a   M a t s u d a
-- 2012-01-26T23:57:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/jetstar-japan-may-expand-fleet-to-100-planes.html
Jetstar  Japan  Co., the budget
carrier set to begin flights this year, said it may grow to 100
planes by the end of the decade helped by fares about 50 percent
cheaper than full-service airlines.  “I’m quite bullish that this is going to be possible,”
Chief Executive Officer Miyuki Suzuki said in an interview in
 Tokyo  yesterday. The carrier, part-owned by Japan Airlines Co.
and  Qantas Airways Ltd. (QAN) , is ahead of schedule in its startup
plans, she said, without giving a date for the first flight.  Jetstar, one of three Japanese budget carriers preparing to
start services, expects to win passengers because low fares will
lure travelers and spur new demand, Suzuki said. Budget airlines
will about triple their share of the domestic market to 35
percent by 2020, she said.  “Whenever low-cost carriers come in, the number of
available seats expands quite rapidly,” said Suzuki, who joined
Jetstar last month. She previously worked as president and CEO
at telecommunications company KVH Co. and as Asia-Pacific head
for online information provider LexisNexis.  Jetstar Japan has received three of the 24 Airbus SAS A320s
it plans to operate in the first few years, Suzuki said. The
carrier will expand its fleet by working with the wider Jetstar
Group, which had 170 planes on order as of August, she said.  The Tokyo-based airline will be the third Asian venture for
Qantas budget arm Jetstar, following operations in Singapore and
 Vietnam . Qantas CEO Alan Joyce has expanded the unit as
competition from Emirates Airline and other Middle Eastern
carriers damp earnings at the Australian company’s full-service
operation.  Overseas Flights  Jetstar Japan plans to add short-haul overseas flights next
year, according to Jetstar’s  website . The carrier may also
eventually lease larger A330s or Boeing Co. planes so it can fly
long-haul service, Suzuki said. It will initially operate from
Tokyo’s Narita airport and  Osaka ’s Kansai airport.  The carrier has 4.8 billion yen ($62 million) in capital
from Tokyo-based JAL, Qantas and Mitsubishi Corp., Japan’s
largest trading group. That will increase to 12 billion yen
after the start of operations, Suzuki said.  The new airline isn’t looking to raise more money and it
has no set plans for a share sale, she said. Parent JAL, which
is controlled by a government-backed turnaround fund, intends to
hold an initial public offering as soon as September.  All Nippon  All Nippon Airways Ltd. (9202) , Japan’s largest listed carrier, is
backing two low-cost carriers that are due to start operations
this year. AirAsia Japan Co., a venture with AirAsia Bhd., will
begin flying in August from Narita. It aims to have about 30
planes and 10 million passengers annually by 2016.  Peach Aviation Ltd., backed by ANA and Hong Kong-based Far
Eastern Investment Group, plans to start flights from Kansai in
March. It aims to lease 10 Airbus A320 planes and boost
passenger numbers to 6 million annually within five years.  A total of  84 million  passengers flew domestically in Japan
in 2010, according to the latest figures available from the
nation’s transport ministry.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Chris Cooper  in Tokyo at 
 ccooper1@bloomberg.net ;
Kiyotaka Matsuda in Tokyo at 
 kmatsuda@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  