-- Johnson & Johnson Wins Jury Verdict Over Levaquin Warning
-- B y   M a r g a r e t   C r o n i n   F i s k   a n d   B e t h   H a w k i n s
-- 2012-01-26T20:06:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/johnson-johnson-wins-jury-verdict-over-antibiotic-levaquin-warning-claim.html
Johnson & Johnson  can’t be held
liable for the tendon injuries to a 78-year-old man who said the
company didn’t properly warn of the risks of its antibiotic
 Levaquin (JNJ) , a Minnesota jury said.  Clifford Straka, who blew out two Achilles tendons after
taking the drug for pneumonia, sued J&J and its Ortho-McNeil
Pharmaceutical unit in 2008. Straka said his doctor wasn’t aware
when she prescribed the drug that Levaquin was linked to an
increased risk of tendon damage in elderly patients.  Johnson & Johnson, based in  New Brunswick ,  New Jersey , has
denied any failure to warn and contended that Straka needed
Levaquin to treat the pneumonia. The Minneapolis federal jury
today found that J&J and its unit failed to provide reasonably
adequate warnings, while also ruling that this wasn’t the cause
of Straka’s injuries. The verdict is the companies’ third
straight trial win.  “We are trying to understand how the jury arrived at the
verdict,” Ronald Goldser, Straka’s attorney, said in an
interview. “If the warning is inadequate, what is it the doctor
did wrong?”  Third Minnesota Case  The lawsuit was the third federal case to go to trial in
Minnesota alleging the unit, now known as  Janssen
Pharmaceuticals , downplayed the risks of the antibiotic to boost
sales. J&J lost the first, a jury verdict for $1.8 million in
2010, and won the second last year. The company also won the
first state case in October, when a New Jersey jury rejected the
claims of two plaintiffs.  J&J is facing more than 3,700 claims involving Levaquin in
state and federal courts,  Bill Foster , a company spokesman, said
in an e-mail. The 2010 trial loss has been appealed and 43 cases
have been dismissed, he said.  The company is “pleased with the verdict,” Foster said in
an e-mail today. “When used according to the product labeling,
Levaquin has been proven to be a safe and effective
medication.”  In 2008, the U.S.  Food and Drug Administration  required all
makers of antibiotics in Levaquin’s class, called
fluoroquinolones, to increase warnings about tendon ruptures.
Straka, who was injured in 2006, claims J&J should have enhanced
the drug’s warning before the FDA required it.  ‘That’s All’  “In 2001, all they did was insert one additional sentence
into the label mentioning the elderly and corticosteroids,”  Jim
Morris , Straka’s lawyer, said in his closing argument at trial.
“That’s all.”  The company “knew that this product had a relationship”
to tendon injuries, Morris said. “But they didn’t study its
frequency. They don’t know whether it’s rare.”  Straka didn’t require Levaquin to save his life, Morris
said.  “This was not a situation where Clifford Straka was in the
hospital about to die of pneumonia,” he said. “This was a very
healthy man.” Straka had a tryout with the  Green Bay Packers  of
the  National Football League  when he was younger and was still
physically active, Morris said.  “The label from Day One in 1996 was adequate,” James
Irwin, J&J’s lawyer, said in closing arguments Jan. 24. “The
information was out there and available to the doctors and
everyone else.”  Straka was allergic to other antibiotics and needed a drug
in the Levaquin class, Irwin told the jury.  ‘Right Choice’  “Levaquin was the right choice,” he said. “When you
consider those allergies, you’re really only left with the
fluoroquinolones.”  The chance of tendon rupture was rare, he said.  “Mr. Straka’s adverse event, his tendon rupture, we don’t
like this occurring in any of our patients,” he said. “But
this is a great medicine. We all know it was saving lives
throughout this entire trial.”  The case is Straka v. Johnson & Johnson, 08-05742, combined
for trial in In re Levaquin Products Liability Litigation, 08-
md-01943, U.S. District Court, District of  Minnesota 
(Minneapolis).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Margaret Cronin Fisk in Southfield, Michigan, at   mcfisk@bloomberg.net ;
Beth Hawkins in Minneapolis at  hawkins@visi.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net . 