-- Juniper Declines After Forecast Disappoints: San Francisco Mover
-- B y   J o r d a n   R o b e r t s o n
-- 2012-01-27T21:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/juniper-sales-profit-forecasts-miss-estimates-as-network-spending-slows.html
Juniper Networks Inc. (JNPR) , the No. 2
maker of networking equipment, fell after its first-quarter
forecast missed estimates, a sign Internet providers are
delaying network upgrades.  Juniper  shares  dropped 3 percent to $21.69 at the close in
 New York . The stock fell 45 percent last year.  Telecommunications-service providers, which account for
more than 60 percent of Juniper’s revenue, are tightening their
budgets. Juniper also is losing customers to its bigger rival,
 Cisco Systems Inc. (CSCO) , which is enticing orders with price cuts,
said  Joanna Makris , an analyst at Mizuho Securities USA.  “The disappointment continues at Juniper,” Makris said in
an interview. The New York-based analyst has a “neutral”
rating on the stock.  While consumers have flocked to mobile devices like
smartphones and tablets, network upgrades may lag behind because
they can take years to plan and cost billions of dollars.  Profit before certain items will be 11 cents to 14 cents a
share, the Sunnyvale, California-based company said yesterday in
a statement. Sales will be $960 million to $990 million, Juniper
said. Analysts, on average, had  estimated  27 cents in profit and
sales of $1.1 billion, according to a Bloomberg survey.  Shrinking Margins  Juniper controls 18 percent of the market for Internet
providers’ routers and switches, the technologies that shuttle
and steer data traffic around networks, according to
telecommunications consulting firm  ACG Research . Cisco, the
industry leader, commands more than 50 percent.  Competition has forced Juniper to cut costs, eroding its
 profit margins , Makris said.  Juniper said first-quarter gross margin, or the percentage
of sales left after subtracting production costs, will be 63
percent to 64 percent, excluding certain items. It was 67.9
percent on that basis in the  first quarter  of 2011.  “The guidance is disappointing,” Makris said. “The gross
margin guidance is very disconcerting.”  Juniper may have ceded some market share as it focuses on
building new products, Chief Executive Officer  Kevin Johnson 
said, calling it a “short-term” issue. He said on a conference
call that some financial-services firms delayed orders in the
fourth quarter, while spending by the U.S. federal government
was “very strong.”  Catching Up  The timing of the industry’s upgrades doesn’t always work
in Juniper’s favor, said Ray Mota, managing partner at ACG in
Gilbert,  Arizona .  “Sometimes it takes spending by the carriers and the
enterprise some time to catch up,” Mota said. “It’s a little
bit slower.”  AT&T Inc., which makes up more than 6 percent of Juniper’s
revenue, according to  data  compiled by Bloomberg, said yesterday
that it will spend about $20 billion on  capital expenditures 
this year, little changed from 2011.  Juniper said earlier this month that weaker spending by
U.S. Internet providers would reduce fourth-quarter results.  Juniper had net income of $96.2 million, or 18 cents a
share, last quarter, compared with $190.2 million, or 35 cents,
a year earlier. Sales fell to $1.12 billion, the company said.
Excluding certain items, profit was 28 cents. Analysts on
average estimated that Juniper would have profit of 27 cents and
sales of $1.12 billion.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jordan Robertson in  San Francisco  at 
 jrobertson40@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at   tgiles5@bloomberg.net  