-- Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey for January (Text)
-- B y   A l e x   T a n z i
-- 2012-01-26T16:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/kansas-city-fed-s-manufacturing-survey-for-january-text-.html
Following is the text from
the Kansas City Fed’s Manufacturing Survey.  Tenth District manufacturing activity rebounded in January, and
expectations remained at solid levels. Price indexes also
increased, with a greater number of firms passing through
materials price increases.  The month-over-month composite index was 7 in January, up from
revised totals of -2 in December and 4 in November (Tables 1 & 2,
Chart). The composite index is an average of the production, new
orders, employment, supplier delivery time, and raw materials
inventory indexes. Manufacturing activity increased in both
durable and nondurable goods-producing plants, with particular
strength in chemical, fabricated metal, and aircraft production.
Most other month-over-month indexes also improved in January.
The production and shipments indexes jumped to their highest
levels since June, and the new orders index climbed from -2 to 8.
The order backlog index was positive for the first time since
last summer, and the employment index rebounded from -5 to 9.
The new orders for exports index increased and the raw materials
inventory index moved higher, while the finished goods inventory
index was unchanged.  Growth in year-over-year factory indexes was mixed in January.
The composite year-over-year index edged up from 11 to 15, and
the new orders and order backlog indexes also improved. In
contrast, the production, shipments, and employment indexes
eased slightly. The capital expenditures index fell from 17 to 8,
while the new orders for exports and supplier delivery time
indexes were unchanged. Both inventory indexes edged higher.  Expectations for future factory activity remained solid,
although the pace of growth slowed for some indexes. The future
composite index was unchanged at 12 for the third straight month,
while the future production index rose considerably. The future
shipments and new orders indexes eased slightly, but the future
order backlog and employment indexes increased after falling
somewhat last month. The future capital expenditures index
climbed from 13 to 22, matching the highest level over the last
year ・posted in March 2011. The future new orders for exports
index edged up, while both inventory indexes fell into negative
territory.  Price indexes all climbed higher this month. The month-over-
month raw materials price index jumped from 27 to 42, and the
finished goods price index also rose. The year-over-year
finished goods price index inched higher, and the raw materials
price index increased slightly. The future raw materials price
index posted its highest level since early 2011, and the future
finished goods price index rose from 19 to 28, indicating more
firms plan to pass recent cost increases through to customers. 