-- Kenny Says Bond Swap ‘Sign of Confidence’ as Aid Exit Seen
-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y   a n d   F i n b a r r   F l y n n
-- 2012-01-26T11:59:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/kenny-says-bond-swap-sign-of-confidence-as-aid-exit-seen.html
Ireland’s Prime Minister  Enda Kenny 
said yesterday’s 3.5 billion-euro ($4.6 billion) bond switch is
a “sign of confidence” from investors as the government seeks
to return to international credit markets and exit its bailout
program by the end of 2013.  Investors switched about 30 percent of government debt due
in 2014 for a new note maturing in 2015, marking the Irish debt
agency most significant move since bond auctions were suspended
in September 2010 and the nation sought a rescue.  “We would expect to be out of the program by the end of
2013,” Kenny said in a Bloomberg television interview at the
World Economic Forum meeting in Davos,  Switzerland , today. “We
have no intention of having a second bailout.”  Finance Minister  Michael Noonan  yesterday called the 2014
11.9 billion euros ($15.7 billion) maturity a “cliff hanging
over us.” Spreading out repayments may mean Ireland needs to
raise less cash next year to finance 2014 needs and help avoid a
second bailout. Before the switch, the state had no bonds
maturing in 2015.  Ireland’s October 2020 bonds, regarded as the nation’s
benchmark, yielded 7.37 percent today, down from 9.1 percent at
the start of December.  “They just want to buy time,” said  Ciaran O’Hagan , the
head of euro-area rate strategy at  Societe Generale SA (GLE)  in Paris.
“It facilitates the return to the market by smoothing the
redemption profile. Ireland will be able to come back to the
market if it substantially reduces its deficit.”  ‘Dip in the Water’  The NTMA may seek to undertake a further swap later this
year, according to a person with knowledge of the matter. The
switch was a “tentative dip in the water,” Kenny said, adding it
was “very successful.”  “So we look forward to whenever they decide to do the same
again,” he said. “But we are in a program and we continue to
make progress and meet all the conditions set down by the troika
and ourselves.”  Ireland’s so-called troika bailout partners are working on
a common paper on a possible restructuring of about 31 billion
euros of promissory notes the state used to bail out the former
 Anglo Irish Bank Corp. (ANGL)   The paper “will be very interesting and potentially very
helpful to our country,” Kenny said.  “The troika themselves now realize that perhaps greater
flexibility could be shown to a country like Ireland which had
to borrow very excessively before the facilities of the EFSF and
the ESM actually came into being,” Kenny said. “It would be
great to be able to be the first country to emerge from a
bailout program.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Simon Kennedy in Paris at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net 
Finbarr Flynn in Dublin at 
 fflynn3@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dara Doyle at 
 ddoyle1@bloomberg.net  