-- Kenyan Finance Minister Kenyatta to ‘Step Aside,’ Remain as Deputy Premier
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-01-26T16:08:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/kenyatta-resigns-as-kenya-finance-chief-after-charges-over-poll-violence.html
Kenyan Finance Minister  Uhuru Kenyatta  resigned three days after the  International Criminal
Court  ordered him to stand trial for inciting violence following
a disputed election in 2007.  Kenyatta, 50, will remain as the East African nation’s
deputy prime minister, President Mwai Kibaki said in an e-mailed
statement today from the capital, Nairobi. Robinson Githae,
previously the minister for Nairobi metropolitan development,
was appointed as acting finance minister, Kibaki said.  The ICC charged Kenyatta and four others with directing
violent attacks, including murder and forced displacement, after
a disputed presidential election that left 1,500 people dead and
uprooted another 300,000 from their homes.  Two months of fighting subsided after Kibaki, an ethnic
Kikuyu, signed a power-sharing accord with then-opposition
leader  Raila Odinga , a Luo who became prime minister. They
promised to implement improvements to the police and judiciary.  Francis Muthaura resigned as head of the public service and
cabinet secretary, and will be replaced by Francis Kimemia, the
permanent secretary of provincial administration and internal
security, according to the statement. Muthaura, along with
lawmaker  William Ruto  and Joshua Arap Sang, a radio presenter,
will also be tried at the ICC. All four men say they are
innocent of the charges and are appealing the decision.  Country’s Richest  Kenya is East Africa’s largest  economy  and the world’s
biggest exporter of black tea. Economic growth is forecast by
the government to accelerate to 5.3 percent this year from an
estimated 4.5 percent in 2011.  Kenyatta, a possible presidential candidate in the next
election, is the son of  Kenya ’s first president, Jomo Kenyatta,
and was ranked by Forbes Magazine in November as the country’s
richest individual with a net worth of $500 million mainly from
land investments.  His resignation won’t hamper the operations of the
ministry, Yvonne Mhango, sub-Saharan Africa economist at
 Renaissance Capital  in Johannesburg, said in a phone interview
today.  “Kenyatta was a charismatic character as finance minister,
but the  finance ministry  has technocrats who carry out the day-
to-day duties and will continue with the same policies,” she
said.  Kenya’s shilling strengthened 0.6 percent to 85.10 against
the dollar by 6:10 p.m. in Nairobi, taking its gain since the
beginning of October to 19 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  