-- Kenyan Victims of Post-Election Violence Pray for Justice
-- B y   S a r a h   M c G r e g o r
-- 2012-01-27T11:10:47Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/kenyans-await-justice-for-post-vote-violence-after-icc-charges.html
Erick Kioko says it would take a
miracle for his three attackers to face punishment for hacking
off his left arm with a machete during the ethnic violence that
followed Kenya’s disputed presidential election four years ago.  His desire for justice won’t be met by the  International
Criminal Court ’s decision to prosecute four Kenyans, including
Uhuru Kenyatta, who quit as finance minister yesterday, with
crimes against humanity. Most lower-level perpetrators have gone
free because Kenya hasn’t set up domestic courts to try people
involved in the fighting that killed 1,500 and cut agricultural
production and tourism, the mainstays of the economy.  “I’d be happy if the people who chopped off my arm were
apprehended, but since I’ve reported it to the police nothing
has happened,” Kioko, a 28-year-old unemployed father of three,
said in an interview inside his one-room metal shack in Nairobi,
the capital. “My only choice now is to pray and wait for God to
deal with them.”  Kenya ’s failure to prosecute the mid-level organizers and
individual perpetrators has created a sense of impunity that may
doom efforts at reconciliation in local communities and create
conditions for further violence at the next election due to take
place no later than March 2013, Neela Ghoshal,  East Africa 
researcher for  Human Rights Watch , said by phone from Nairobi on
Jan. 23.  ‘Culture of Impunity’  “The  International Criminal Court  is only the first step
in breaking the back of this impunity,” Maina Kiai, director of
Nairobi-based  InformAction , a non-profit group that promotes
political accountability, said in an interview. “Trying lower-
level cases locally is the key to reversing the culture of
impunity that has long kept Kenya’s political class in power.”  Attorney-General Githu Muigai said on Jan. 24 he plans to
approach Chief Justice Willy Mutunga about setting up a special
unit within the  High Court  to deal with cases that are
“internationally criminal” in nature. The unit may help handle
some of the 5,000 “files” connected to crimes following the
last general election, he said.  The violence that erupted after the 2007 vote exposed
friction among Kenya’s 42 ethnic groups, which center primarily
on land, resources and power, and unearthed rivalries dating
back to before British colonial rule ended in 1963. It forced
300,000 people to flee their homes.  Ethnic Clashes  Clashes broke out after President Mwai Kibaki, an ethnic
Kikuyu, won a second term in office in an election opposition
supporters said was rigged. In one of the deadliest incidents,
at least 30 people, mainly Kikuyus, died when ethnic Kalenjin
burned down a church where they sought refuge on New Year’s day
in Eldoret, 265 kilometers (165 miles) northwest of Nairobi.  The fighting stopped after former United Nations Secretary-
General Kofi Annan negotiated an agreement to leave Kibaki as
president and install his main rival, then opposition leader
 Raila Odinga , a Luo, as prime minister.  The damage to East Africa’s largest economy, which had a
reputation as a safe investment and tourist destination in a
volatile region, was immediate.  Growth slowed to 1.7 percent in 2008, from 7.1 percent,
because of a fall in agricultural output in the world’s largest
exporter of black tea and a decline in tourism, which generates
10 percent of economic output. A repeat of the disturbances in
the next elections would have a similar impact, Maplecroft, the
London-based risk analyst group, said in an e-mailed note
yesterday.  Political Temperature  “We want to appeal to the political class to bring down
the political temperature,” Ahmed Issack Hassan, chairman of
Kenya’s Independent Electoral and Boundaries Commission, told
reporters today in Nairobi. “The political class needs to help
us” stage peaceful, free and fair elections, he said.  Besides Kenyatta, who will remain deputy prime minister,
The Hague-based ICC will try lawmaker  William Ruto , Francis Muthaura, who quit yesterday as head of Kenya’s public service,
and Joshua Arap Sang, a radio presenter. All four men deny
responsibility and said they’ll appeal the ruling.  Prosecutor  Luis Moreno-Ocampo  initiated investigations into
the chaos after Kenyan lawmakers blocked several attempts to
create a dedicated tribunal. In August, the court dismissed
Kenya’s request to stop its probe, saying the country failed to
demonstrate it’s capable of taking over the cases.  The lack of political will to prosecute post-election
violence cases locally reflects a broader failure by Kenyan
authorities to uphold the rule of law, Paul Muite, a lawyer and
former lawmaker, said yesterday in a phone interview.  New Constitution  A new constitution enacted in 2010 was meant to root out
corruption and reorganize the justice system, characterized by
 Transparency International  in its 2011 East African Bribery
Index as one of the country’s most graft-prone institutions.  The UN said in a 2009 report that police officers were
guilty of carrying out “systematic and widespread” extra-
judicial killings during the post-election violence and against
the outlawed Mungiki group.  Kioko said regardless of the outcome of the ICC trials, his
attackers will probably go free. He hasn’t heard from the police
since his mother identified the arm from his wristwatch and
buried it in a pit at Nairobi’s crowded Mathare slum.  Eric Kiraithe , Kenya’s police spokesman, didn’t answer two
calls to his mobile phone yesterday seeking comment. Justice
Minister Mutula Kilonzo didn’t answer his mobile phone, while
 Alfred Mutua , the government’s spokesman, said he was unable to
immediately comment.  “There are still the people at the local level that are
free who caused post-election violence,” Kioko said. “There is
little likelihood they will be charged.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sarah McGregor in Nairobi at 
 smcgregor5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  