-- Kim Dotcom’s Two Megaupload Co-Accused Granted Bail in New Zealand Court
-- B y   C h r i s   B o u r k e
-- 2012-01-26T05:20:53Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/kim-dotcom-s-two-megaupload-co-accused-granted-bail-in-new-zealand-court.html
Two men accused alongside
Megaupload.com founder Kim Dotcom of the biggest copyright
infringement in U.S. history were granted bail in a  New Zealand 
court because they were unlikely to flee the country.  The risk of Bram van der Kolk and Finn Batato trying to
escape from New Zealand was low and both were of good character,
North Shore District Judge David McNaughton wrote in separate
rulings released by e-mail today. A bail hearing for the fourth
man arrested in New Zealand on Jan. 20 was adjourned until
tomorrow, according to a court spokesman.  Dotcom and his colleagues are sought in the U.S. where they
were indicted on charges that the file-sharing website was part
of a $175 million copyright infringement conspiracy with pirated
film and music files being exchanged. He was arrested at his
leased New Zealand mansion on Jan. 20, and the U.S. has 45 days
from that date to file a formal extradition request.  “I am mindful of the scale of the offending described in
the indictment and that this is the biggest case of its kind
prosecuted in the  United States ,” McNaughton wrote. “It is
safe to assume that substantial terms of imprisonment would be
imposed.”  Van der Kolk and Batato were remanded in custody for a week
while their homes were assessed for electronic monitoring,
according to stuff.co.nz.  Batato is a German citizen who lives in Munich and was only
in New Zealand to attend Dotcom’s 38th birthday party, according
to his bail ruling. He has no criminal convictions and, like
Dotcom and van der Kolk, denies any part of the alleged
conspiracy.  Lead Programmer  Van der Kolk is a Netherlands citizen residing in New
Zealand and is the lead programmer for Megaupload Ltd.,
according to his bail ruling. He also has no convictions.  Dotcom was yesterday denied bail as flight risk remained a
“real and significant possibility.” He had access to 23
separate bank accounts in  Hong Kong  that held more than NZ$26
million ($21.3 million), according to his ruling. The FBI said
his earnings for 2010 were $42 million and he had NZ$10 million
in New Zealand government bonds.  When police arrived at Dotcom’s house on Jan. 20, he
activated electronic locks and sought refuge in a safe room, New
Zealand police said in a statement. Police neutralized locks and
cut their way into the safe room, where Dotcom was sitting
cross-legged on the floor near a safe that contained a loaded
shotgun.  Dotcom’s unlawful possession of the gun “suggests a level
of criminality which to my mind could easily extend to
exploiting criminal connections to obtain false travel documents
and leave the country undetected,” McNaughton wrote yesterday.  Pink Cadillac  In the raid, police said they seized 18  luxury vehicles ,
including a Rolls Royce Phantom Drophead Coupe and a 1959 pink
Cadillac. The vehicles are valued at NZ$6 million. The U.S.
received restraining orders for assets valued at $175 million,
including some in New Zealand.  The U.S. indicted Dotcom because some of Megaupload’s
servers were based in that country. Other servers were based in
 Canada  and the Netherlands, according to the ruling.  Megaupload was advertised as having more than 1 billion
visitors, more than 150 million users, 50 million daily
visitors, and accounted for 4 percent of  Internet traffic , U.S.
prosecutors said. New Zealand prosecutors must show Dotcom is
accused of an offense that would be punishable by at least 12
months in jail in both the U.S. and New Zealand, according to
the 1999 Extradition Act.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Bourke in Wellington at 
 cbourke4@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Douglas Wong at 
 dwong19@bloomberg.net  