-- New Zealand Dollar Set for Six-Week Advance After Unexpected Trade Surplus
-- B y   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-01-27T16:51:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/kiwi-dollar-set-to-complete-six-week-gain-after-unexpected-trade-surplus.html
New Zealand ’s dollar rose for a
sixth straight week after a report showed the nation
unexpectedly posted its first  trade surplus  in five months.  The so-called kiwi held a five-day advance against most of
its major peers as  Reserve Bank  of New Zealand Governor Alan Bollard said the nation’s economy can weather a global slowdown.
Demand for New Zealand’s dollar and its Australian counterpart
was limited on concern Greece is struggling to reach agreement
with its creditors on a debt-swap arrangement, curbing demand
for higher-yielding assets.  “We are seeing ongoing offshore demand for kiwi dollars,”
said  Tim Kelleher , head of institutional foreign-exchange sales
in Auckland at ASB Institutional, a unit of  Commonwealth Bank of
Australia . New Zealand’s economy is “going OK, and certainly
some of the individual sectors of the country are doing quite
well,” he said.  The kiwi dollar rose 0.2 percent to 82.36 U.S. cents at
11:47 a.m. in  New York , advancing 2.1 percent this week. It
dropped 0.7 percent to 63.17 yen, trimming the five-day surge to
1.7 percent.  Australia ’s currency advanced 0.1 percent to
$1.0640 and dropped 0.9 percent to 81.62 yen.  New Zealand’s exports exceeded imports by NZ$338 million
($278 million) in December, the statistics bureau said today,
whereas economists surveyed by Bloomberg News had predicted a
NZ$50 million shortfall. A separate report from the Treasury
Department showed the government’s budget deficit was wider than
previously forecast in the five months through November on
weaker-than-projected tax revenue.  ‘Gradual Lift’  The RBNZ expects a “gradual lift in activity over 2012,
consistent with demolition and repairs to housing and
infrastructure getting under way,” with full-scale
reconstruction expected in 2013, Governor Bollard said in
Christchurch today.  Bollard had previously said he expected rebuilding to pick
up in the second half of this year. The central bank kept the
 official cash rate  at a record-low 2.5 percent yesterday.  European Union Economic and Monetary Affairs Commissioner
 Olli Rehn  said Greece was “close” to reaching agreement with
its creditors.  “The next three days will be very crucial,” Rehn said at
the  World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland. An agreement may
come “if not today, then over the weekend,” he said.  New Zealand’s dollar has appreciated 1.1 percent in the
past week, the best performance among the 10 developed-nation
currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-Weighted Indexes.
The so-called Aussie gained 0.3 percent in the same period.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  