-- Naira Weakens for First Day in Three on Rising Dollar Demand
-- B y   E m e l e   O n u
-- 2012-01-26T16:30:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/naira-weakens-for-first-day-in-3-on-rising-dollar-demand.html
Nigeria ’s naira weakened for the
first time in three days against the dollar on mounting demand
for foreign currency as businesses begin import orders for the
year.  The currency of  Africa ’s biggest oil producer declined 0.4
percent to 160.60 per dollar on the interbank market as of 4:50
p.m. in Lagos, the commercial capital, from yesterday’s close in
 New York , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “Demand piled up from importers that could not get dollars
during the workers’ strike and those that had planned their
importation at month-end, which is among the usual busy times
for the year,” Tunde Ladipo, chief executive of Lagos-based
Valuechain Investment Ltd., said by phone. “Dollars are going
into the importation of industrial goods and raw materials,
refined petroleum and even consumables.”  Nigeria’s central bank offers foreign currency to lenders
at twice-weekly auctions, where it tries to keep the  exchange
rate  around a midpoint of 155 naira to a dollar in order to
stabilize prices. The bank also sells dollars directly to
lenders through the  interbank market , to improve supply and
reduce pressure on the naira. The central bank sold $604.5
million dollars to lenders this week through its foreign
currency auction and forward sales.  A national strike against higher fuel prices, which shut
banks, businesses and the ports, ended on Jan. 16 after
President Goodluck Jonathan limited the increase, enabling the
return of normal economic activities and increasing demand for
foreign currency by importers, Mohammed said.  Ghana’s cedi rose for the second day, climbing less than
0.1 percent to 1.6998 per dollar, as of 4:50 p.m. in Accra, the
capital, according to data compiled by Bloomberg  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emele Onu in Lagos at 
 eonu1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Branton at 
 pbranton@bloomberg.net  