-- Nasdaq’s Greifeld Says Not Interested in LSE, NYSE Bids
-- B y   E l i s a   M a r t i n u z z i   a n d   W h i t n e y   K i s l i n g
-- 2012-01-26T18:35:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/nasdaq-s-greifeld-says-not-interested-in-lse-nyse-bids-1-.html
Nasdaq OMX Group Inc. (NDAQ)  isn’t
interested in buying the  London Stock Exchange Group Plc (LSE)  or
another attempt at  NYSE Euronext (NYX) , even as antitrust regulators
recommend against  Deutsche Boerse AG (DB1) ’s bid for the owner of the
New York Stock Exchange, Chief Executive Officer  Robert Greifeld 
said.  Nasdaq OMX, which made a failed hostile bid for NYSE
Euronext in April, doesn’t want the LSE, Greifeld told reporters
today in Davos, Switzerland. He said later that he wouldn’t
consider a second attempt at NYSE Euronext because the U.S.
Justice Department rejected the idea.  Should  NYSE Euronext’s deal  with Deutsche Boerse in
 Frankfurt  be blocked, it would mean $37 billion in exchange
mergers announced since October 2010 failed to close, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. LSE shares have rallied almost
 twice  the Bloomberg World Exchanges Index since European Union
regulators told NYSE Euronext and  Deutsche Boerse  in December
their concessions weren’t enough to allay antitrust concerns.  “The one thing I know is we will not be making a run” for
NYSE Euronext, Greifeld told CNBC today. “We attempted it, the
DOJ said no. We listen to the U.S. government, so we carry on.”  December Meeting  NYSE Euronext and Deutsche Boerse are unlikely to garner
enough support from European Union commissioners to overturn a
looming veto over their plan to create the world’s largest
exchange, four people familiar with the situation said this
week. EU regulators told the two companies that they planned to
prohibit the deal because it would monopolize derivatives
trading in the region, according to two people familiar with the
draft decision in December.  Nasdaq OMX  joined  with IntercontinentalExchange Inc. in
April to offer $11.3 billion for the operator of the  New York 
Stock Exchange, an attempt to counter Deutsche Boerse’s $9.5
billion all-stock bid two months earlier. U.S. regulators
threatened to block Nasdaq and ICE’s deal in May, and they
dropped it. LSE has jumped 6.8 percent since then.  Greifeld has twice tried and failed to buy LSE, both times
taking his offer directly to shareholders after he was rebuffed
by Clara Furse, then chief executive of LSE at the time. His
lack of interest today is a shift from his position in June,
when asked whether he was interested in combining with LSE or
TMX Group Inc. in Toronto, Greifeld replied: “As I said: we
talk to many people. We have serious conversations with a few.
They would have to fall into the ‘many’ category.”  LSE has rallied 13 percent since regulators signaled they’d
stop the NYSE-Deutsche Boerse deal. Nasdaq OMX is up 6.6 percent
to $26. The Bloomberg World Exchanges Index advanced 7.2 percent
in the same time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elisa Martinuzzi in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 emartinuzzi@bloomberg.net ;
Whitney Kisling in New York at 
 wkisling@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at   barden@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Baker at   nbaker7@bloomberg.net . 