-- Navigating the Water-Food-Energy Nexus
-- B y   A n d r e w   W i n s t o n   a n d   A n d y   W a l e s
-- 2012-01-26T20:59:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/navigating-the-water-food-energy-nexus.html
     When we talk about natural resource constraints on
business — such as shortages in water or increases in the cost
of energy or agricultural products — we tend to forget how
deeply intertwined these commodities are. In the business
community, just as in a natural ecosystem, an individual
organism (in this case a company) is vulnerable to changes in
the availability of these systemic inputs.  The risks are greater than we realize because the
availability of any of these key resources deeply affects the
availability of the others. For example, it
takes 95 liters of water to produce one kilowatt-hour (kWh) of
electricity; and each year, the U.S. uses 520 billion kilowatt
hours — or roughly 13 percent of all electricity consumed — to
move, treat, and heat water. With agriculture accounting for
roughly 70 percent of water use, you can imagine how
complicated it can become to maintain a steady supply of all
three to industry, citizens, and municipalities.  This interdependent nexus is now evolving in a way that
will threaten the wellbeing of billions. In 2050, to meet
demand from a rising and increasingly carnivorous
population, we will need to grow and process 70 percent more food.
This technological and logistical challenge is made all the
harder by the fact that by 2030, we'll be
confronting a water supply shortage of approximately 40
percent due to a toxic combination of rising demand and
climate-change-driven shifts in water supply. Facing these
clear resource constraints, businesses will need to adapt, and
soon.  At the  World Economic Forum  in Davos this week, a new
brand of resource realism will begin to take hold in the
business community with the launch of the Water Resources
Group, which recognizes these constraints and the need for
adaptation. This public-private collaboration includes the
 International Finance Corporation  and food and beverage giants
such as Coca-Cola, Nestle, and SABMiller. Together, these
diverse players will help governments, companies and
communities work together to manage the nexus. Rather than
well-meaning but one-sided solutions, these business leaders
hope to harness the private sector's
comprehensive, value-chain viewpoint to solve these
multifaceted problems.  That comprehensive viewpoint is critical, as a supply
shock in any of these resources can cause ripple effects
elsewhere. The  energy industry  has witnessed its resource
co-dependencies first hand in  Texas , where the state's worst
ever single year drought has threatened to stall plans
for new power production and distribution projects.  Companies will need to measure and prepare for potential
resource shortages and price increases, which will deeply
affect their business operations, supply chains, and
customers. These issues create collective risks that cannot be
managed in silos. Companies will need to look along and beyond
their own value chains to become agents of change. They'll
bring together communities, governments and NGOs to address
the challenge holistically.  All sectors — not just agriculture — must recognize how
their actions are interlinked with all the people who use and
depend on these resources. Consider, for example, how any
facility needing water must work to ensure that all
agricultural players in the community are adopting
clean, non-polluting practices in local watersheds. If a
community runs out of water, it affects everyone in the
area, even companies that were good stewards of the resource.
The collective nature of these resources means that everyone
shares both the responsibilities for their protection and the
risks of their scarcity.  For businesses, understanding the implications of this
nexus begins with assessing how a lack of water can impact the
bottom line. For example, a business dependent on food can
only fully understand its vulnerability if it assesses the
availability of water to feed the crops it needs upstream.  In recent years, multi-national food and beverage
companies with a clear stake in how the nexus plays out have
begun to assess their "water footprint." This exercise allows
them to identify risks and opportunities in their own supply
chains, and discover how they can create more value while
consuming less.  Forward-looking companies must assess the risks of
mismanaging this resource nexus, learn to partner outside
their comfort zone, and integrate resource-saving initiatives
into their long-term business plans. It's the only way we can
ensure the long-term security and supply of the resources that
our economy and society depend on.  ***  Andrew Winston is co-author of the best-seller
"Green to Gold," author of "Green Recovery," and advisor to
some of the world’s biggest companies on environmental
strategy. Andy Wales is Global Head of  Sustainable Development 
for SABMiller, one of the world’s largest brewers, and is the
lead author of the book "Big Business, Big Responsibilities."  Visit www.bloomberg.com/sustainability for the latest
from Bloomberg News about energy, natural resources and
global business. 