-- New York City Sets Record With 23 TV Shows Produced in 2011, Mayor Says
-- B y   H e n r y   G o l d m a n   a n d   C h r i s t o p h e r   P a l m e r i
-- 2012-01-26T22:45:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/new-york-sets-record-with-23-television-shows-produced-in-2011-mayor-says.html
New York City  served as location for
a record 23 television series in the 2011-2012 season, compared
with nine a decade ago, as TV and film production grew in
importance to the city’s economy, Mayor  Michael Bloomberg  said.  At a news conference on the set of “ Gossip Girl ” at
 Silvercup Studios  in Queens, Bloomberg said the show spent $200
million on local development and used more than 500 vendors for
paint, lumber, office supplies and other services. Last season,
the show hired more than 120 principal actors, 180 crew members
and more than 7,000 background actors, the mayor’s office said
in a news release.  Producers used the city for all or part of 188 films and
more than 140 television news, sports, reality and talk shows,
the mayor said. The industry contributes about $5 billion a year
to the local economy, employing more than 100,000 behind the
scenes, with about 4,000 local businesses supporting
productions, Bloomberg’s office said.  The mayor’s  Office of Film, Theatre and Broadcasting  acts
as a liason with producers, he said.  “ New York  City has surpassed all previous records for film
and television production,” Bloomberg said in prepared remarks.
“We’re proud to be home to employers like ‘Gossip Girl,’  Warner
Bros . and Silvercup Studios.”  CW Television  Gossip Girl is a production of Fake Empire and Alloy
Entertainment in association with  Warner Bros. Television  and
 CBS Television Studios , the release said. It is carried on the
CW television network.  The mayor is founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News
parent Bloomberg LP.  Alan Suna, chief executive officer of Silvercup Studios,
said much of the success the city has had attracting TV and
movie work came from a New York state $420 million tax credit,
set to expire at the end of 2014, equal to 30 percent of on-site
costs spent in the state for such items as set construction,
props, wardrobe, technical work and makeup.  Forty states plus  Puerto Rico  offer such incentives, said
Joseph Chianese, senior vice president for tax planning and
business development at film payroll processing company
 Entertainment Partners  in  Burbank ,  California .  “California offers $100 million a year in credits, which
goes fast,” he said, while Louisiana and  Massachusetts  have no
limits. “New York’s has been an extremely successful program.”  New York’s tax credit, while offering less than some
states, attracts film and TV producers because of the abundance
of local talent and iconic backgrounds the city offers, Suna
said. The tax incentive creates more revenue for the state than
it loses, by encouraging productions to spend money in New York,
and should be made permanent, Suna said.  Without the program, successful shows such as Fox
television’s “Fringe,” which used to be produced at Silvercup
studios “just picked up and moved to other locations where tax
credits were available,” Suna said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Henry Goldman at 
 hgoldman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  