-- New U.S. Forestland Rules May Trim Development Time
-- B y   A l a n   B j e r g a
-- 2012-01-27T14:23:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/new-u-s-forestland-rules-may-trim-development-time-usda-says.html
(Corrects name of  Natural Resources Defense Council  in
third paragraph in story published Jan. 26.)  The Obama administration has  proposed
rules  that it said will protect wildlife and watersheds while
reducing the time it takes to get approval for development
projects in the 193 million acres managed by  U.S. Forest
Service .  The proposal for managing national forestland may not end
lawsuits that pit green groups against loggers, miners and
energy companies, environmentalists and an industry group said.  “When you’re in conflict over values that are hard to
measure, it will always be hard to reach agreement,” Daniel
Dructor, executive vice president of the American Loggers
Council, a timber group based in Hemphill,  Texas , said. Niel
Lawrence, with the Natural Resources Defense Council, agreed,
saying in some courts cases environmentalists will have a
slimmer chance of winning.  Efforts to develop parts of the 155 forests, 20 grasslands
and one prairie in the national-forest system for commercial and
recreational use have resulted in lawsuits or been tied up in a
cumbersome approval process, complicating effective resource
management, Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack said in a
conference call from Philadelphia. The new rules will bring
stakeholders together earlier in the process, helping to reduce
litigation and delays, he said.  The proposal, replacing guidelines that date to 1982, will
be published in the Federal Register on Feb. 3 and may take
affect later this year.  ‘Road Map’  The rules recognize that the lands in the U.S. forest
system are used for a variety of purposes, Vilsack said.  The
proposal “will safeguard our natural resources and provide a
road map for getting work done on the ground that will restore
our forests while providing job opportunities for local
communities,” he said.  Work on a management plan has been going on since rules
drafted during President  George W. Bush ’s administration were
thrown out by a federal court in 2009. The latest effort,
started after the current White House decided not to challenge
the ruling, has received more than 300,000 comments, according
to the USDA.  Lawrence, who directs the Natural Resources Defense
Council’s forestry project, said the government proposal in many
ways is an improvement on the current system. Still, he said it
may end up resulting in more restricted habitats for some
animals. Hard-and-fast requirements that protect species “are
replaced by a lot of guidance about how to do the right thing,”
he said. “But without enforceability, under a different
administration that would just be so much eco-babble.”  Vilsack said the new rules will require that the best
available science be used in making decisions about land and
water use. Striking a balance among contending interests is key
to maintaining a sustainable forest system that creates jobs and
protects natural resources, he said.  “It’s important to leverage the resources we have most
effectively,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alan Bjerga in  Washington  at 
 abjerga@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan in Washington at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net . 