-- Nigerian Police Arrest 160 Chadians in Kano City Over Bombs, Official Says
-- B y   M u s t a p h a   M u h a m m a d   a n d   M a r a m   M a z e n
-- 2012-01-26T11:13:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/nigerian-police-arrest-160-chadians-in-kano-city-over-bombs-official-says.html
Nigerian police arrested 160 people
from neighboring  Chad  on suspicion of involvement in bombings
and gun attacks last week that killed as many as 256 people in
Kano, a police official in the northern city said.  Nigeria’s government has contacted the Chadian authorities
to investigate whether the Islamist militant group, Boko Haram,
which claimed responsibility for the attacks, has training
facilities in Chad, said the police official, who declined to be
identified because he’s not authorized to speak to the media.  “The most likely scenario in this case is that the
Nigerian police received intelligence suggesting the
participation of Chadians in the Kano operation and have gone on
to round up as many Chadians as they can find,” Sebastian Boe,
a London-based analyst for IHS Global Insight said today in an
e-mailed response to questions. “While the participation of a
number of Chadians is certainly plausible, I very much doubt
that Boko Haram recruited 160 of them for the operation.”  Boko Haram, which draws its inspiration from  Afghanistan ’s
Taliban movement, is responsible for a surge in violence in the
mainly Muslim north of Nigeria, Africa’s largest oil producer.
The group, whose name means “Western education is a sin,”
claimed responsibility for a suicide car-bomb attack on the
United Nations building in the capital, Abuja, on Aug. 26 that
killed 24 people. Police blame it for a Christmas Day bombing of
a church near Abuja that killed 43 people.  Police Inspector Fired  Nigerian President Goodluck Jonathan yesterday fired police
inspector-general Hafiz Ringim and his six deputies, nine days
after an alleged Boko Haram leader escaped from police custody.
Kabiru Umar, who is suspected of masterminding the Christmas Day
bombing, escaped from police custody on Jan. 16, two days after
his arrest, police said.  The series of coordinated bomb and gun attacks in Kano on
Jan. 20 killed at least 256 people, according to  Nigeria ’s Civil
Rights Congress. Police in the city put the official death toll
at 184.  Chad told Nigerian authorities that President Idriss Deby
had asked his security forces to investigate and dismantle any
training camps that are found, the police official in Kano said.  Police found more than 300 improvised explosive devices
since Jan. 21 in Kano, the city’s police commissioner, Ibrahim
Idris, said on Jan. 23.  Frequent bank robberies in northern Nigeria in the past
year have given Boko Haram “a substantial amount of cash to
throw around” to hire sub-contractors for operations such as
the attack in Kano, Boe said.  Bank Robberies  Boko Haram conducted at least 30 attacks on banks last
year, the Abuja-based central bank said in December.  Sub-Saharan  Africa ’s second-biggest economy is recovering
from a week-long general strike that cost an estimated 207.4
billion naira ($1.3 billion), the National Bureau of Statistics
said Jan. 18. The action ended on Jan. 16 after Jonathan
backtracked on a decision to fully lift a fuel subsidy and
agreed to limit gasoline-price increases to 97 naira a liter
(0.26 gallon). Prices initially more than doubled from 65 naira
a liter.  The naira fell for the first day in three, declining less
than 0.1 percent to 160.05 per dollar on the  interbank market  as
of 10:49 a.m. in Lagos, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The Nigerian Stock Exchange  All-Share Index (NGSEINDX)  gained for a
second day, rising 0.4 percent to 20,699.58 in Lagos, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Brent oil for March settlement was up $1.01 cents, or 0.9
percent, at $110.82 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
at 10:23 a.m. in  London .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mustapha Muhammad in Johannesburg at 
 mmuhammad5@bloomberg.net ;
Maram Mazen in Abuja at 
 mmazen@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  