-- Nintendo Widens Full-Year Loss Forecast, Cuts 3DS Estimate
-- B y   N a o k o   F u j i m u r a   a n d   M a s a t s u g u   H o r i e
-- 2012-01-26T19:50:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/nintendo-widens-full-year-loss-forecast-cuts-3ds-sales-estimate.html
Nintendo Co. (7974) , the world’s largest
maker of video-game machines, more than tripled its full-year
loss forecast as the success of  Apple Inc. (AAPL)  devices erodes demand
for the company’s 3DS handheld player.  The  net loss  in the year ending in March may be 65 billion
yen ($838 million), compared with an earlier forecast for a loss
of 20 billion yen, the Kyoto, Japan-based company said in a
statement today. Today’s figure was more than the average loss
of 29 billion yen  forecast  by 18 analysts tracked by Bloomberg.  President Satoru Iwata, who cut 3DS prices by as much as 40
percent last year, said he expects full-year sales of 14 million
units for the device that shows images in 3-D, down from an
earlier forecast of 16 million. The creator of “Super Mario
Bros.” games is predicting its first annual loss in at least
three decades because of a surging yen and a consumer preference
for gaming on the iPhone and iPad that helped Apple more than
double profit in the quarter.  “The company faces a structural problem that people are
opting for their smartphones and tablet PCs to kill their
time,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees about $600 million
at Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in Tokyo. “I can’t see
Nintendo’s next strategy. There will probably be a discussion
about how much worse it can get.”  Forex Loss  Nintendo’s U.S.-traded depositary receipts dropped 6.9
percent to $16.34 at 2:39 p.m. in  New York . Each depositary
receipt equals 0.125 ordinary shares, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. In Osaka before the results, Nintendo fell 0.9
percent to 10,750 yen at the close of trading. The  stock dropped 
56 percent last year, erasing about $24 billion in market value.  “It took time for us to revive sales momentum” after the
3DS price cuts because the company was “a little bit late” in
introducing titles featuring the Mario character, Iwata told
reporters in  Osaka .  Operating loss in the year ending in March may be 45
billion yen, compared with an earlier estimate for a profit of 1
billion yen, according to the statement. Nintendo today also
reported a nine-month net loss of 48.4 billion yen, compared
with a profit of 49.6 billion yen a year earlier.  Nintendo had a foreign exchange loss of 53.7 billion yen in
the nine-month period. Nintendo based its annual forecast on the
exchange rate of 98 yen to the euro, compared with an earlier
forecast of 106 yen. The company kept its rate of 77 yen to the
dollar.  Price Cut  “Nintendo’s profitability may get lower in the long term
because people are starting to stay away from video-game
consoles,” Tomoaki Kawasaki, a senior analyst at Cosmo
Securities Co. in  Tokyo  with a “neutral”  rating  on the stock,
said before the earnings release. “The yen’s gain is a burden
for Nintendo as it hasn’t taken sufficient measures to deal with
the impact of the strong currency.”  Nintendo generates about 80 percent of revenue outside
Japan, and a stronger yen reduces the repatriated value of
 overseas  assets. The yen has gained 5.6 percent against the
dollar and 10 percent versus the euro in the past 12 months, the
best performer among 11 Asian currencies tracked by Bloomberg.  The console maker hasn’t reported a full-year net loss
since 1981, when it began releasing consolidated earnings,
according to its  website .  Nintendo cut the price of the 3DS, which allows users to
see 3-D images without wearing special glasses, by 40 percent to
15,000 yen in  Japan  in August. The company reduced the price in
the U.S. to $170 from $250.  Nintendo sold 11.4 million units of the 3DS handheld
player, released in February, in the nine months ended Dec. 31.  Smartphones  Wii sales in the nine-month period fell 35 percent to 8.96
million units. The Wii U console, Nintendo’s successor to the
Wii, will be introduced in time for the  Christmas shopping
season , Iwata said.  Users are increasingly turning to playing on devices from
Apple, whose  App Store  offers more than 100,000 game and
entertainment titles for the iPhone, iPad and iPod Touch. Apple
on Jan. 24 reported sales of 37 million iPhones in the quarter
ended Dec. 31, helping its profit surge to $13.1 billion in the
period.  Sony Corp. (6758) , whose PlayStation Vita portable player competes
with the 3DS, is scheduled to release results on Feb. 2.  “Monster Hunter 3 (Tri) G” sales topped 1 million units
in the 10 days after it hit the market on Dec. 10, the game’s
creator,  Capcom Co. (9697) ,  said  Dec. 21. “Super Mario 3D Land” and
“Mario Kart 7,” introduced in November and December,
respectively, each sold more than 1 million units in the U.S.,
Nintendo  said  Jan. 3.  Sales of titles for the 3DS may total 38 million units this
fiscal year, down 24 percent from the company’s previous
estimate, Nintendo said today.  Iwata said he is confident the company will turn profitable
next year. Nintendo will “soon” start charging users for
downloading additional content to a software title, Iwata said.  “We aim to keep sales momentum of the 3DS by introducing
main software titles regularly and expanding digital business
for the 3DS,” Iwata said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naoko Fujimura in Tokyo at 
 nfujimura@bloomberg.net ;
Masatsugu Horie in Osaka at 
 mhorie3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  