-- Noble Corp. Rises as Offshore Drilling Improves: Dallas Mover
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-01-26T21:14:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/noble-corp-rises-as-offshore-drilling-improves-dallas-mover.html
Noble Corp. (NE) , the offshore-drilling
contractor building 11 new rigs, rose after telling analysts
that usage and lease rates for its vessels are improving
throughout the world.  Noble climbed 0.1 percent to close at $34.81 in  New York .
The company currently has a fleet of 68 offshore vessels that
drill in water ranging from as shallow as 70 feet to more than
two miles deep.  Fourth-quarter per-share earnings beat by 1 cent the
average of 34 analysts’  estimates  compiled by Bloomberg, the
Geneva-based company reported in a statement yesterday. The
company’s backlog of projects now stands at more than $14.4
billion and several cold-stacked, or idled, rigs returned to
service during the fourth quarter, Senior Vice President  Roger Hunt  said on a conference call today.  “Our industry continues to experience solid signs of
recovery in both the shallow- and deep-water sectors,” said
Hunt. “Whenever we see cold-stacked rigs re-entering the
market, we know it’s a bellwether for better times.”  Higher utilization and dayrates for drilling rigs are
expected to work in the company’s favor,  Roger Read , an analyst
at Morgan Keegan in Houston, who rates the shares “outperform”
and owns none, said today in a telephone interview.  “You heard a lot of positives” on the call, said Read.
“Dayrates, whether they’re for commodity jackups or hi-spec
deep-water, are all trending higher.”  The utilization rate of Noble’s rigs, which measures the
days they work by the days they’re available, rose to 79 percent
in the final three months of 2011, compared to 77 percent in the
third quarter of the year, Chief Financial Officer James Maclennan said on the call.  Oil prices  advanced 10 percent to average $94.06 a barrel
on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  in the quarter, up from
$85.24 a year earlier. The average number of active oil and
natural-gas rigs around the world rose 15 percent in the final
three months of the year to 3,676,  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)  data show.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  