-- Nokia Names Risto Siilasmaa as Chairman to Replace Retiring Jorma Ollila
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-26T11:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/nokia-names-siilasmaa-as-chairman-to-replace-retiring-jorma-ollila.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V)  nominated entrepreneur
Risto Siilasmaa to succeed Jorma Ollila as chairman, signaling
that key decisions at the world’s biggest mobile-phone company
by handsets deliveries will stay in  Finland .  Siilasmaa, 45, is chairman of security software maker  F-
Secure Oyj (FSC1V@FH) , which he founded, and of telephone company Elisa
Oyj. Known in Finland as a representative for entrepreneurs and
business investors, he joined Nokia’s board in 2008.  Nokia investors lost more than 60 billion euros ($79
billion) in share value after Apple Inc. leapfrogged it with the
iPhone. Siilasmaa will oversee Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop’s efforts to win customers as Apple and Google Inc. expand
into new markets.  Ollila, 61, will retire, Nokia said in a statement. As CEO
from 1992 to 2006, he transformed Nokia from an industrial
conglomerate to the world’s top mobile-phone maker. He has been
chairman since 1999. Last year, he replaced hand-picked CEO
successor Olli-Pekka Kallasvuo with Elop, a Microsoft executive,
to reverse the tailspin.  The fact that Nokia had been eclipsed in smartphones
gradually became apparent to shareholders in the three years
after the 2007 Apple iPhone introduction. Nokia’s debt ratings
were cut last year by  Standard & Poor’s  and Moody’s on concerns
that a turnaround would take too long.  Finnish Startups  An investor in Finnish startups, Siilasmaa may also broker
more tie-ups with new companies such as “Angry Birds” maker
Rovio Entertainment Ltd.  “I don’t want to leave a fortune to my kids,” Siilasmaa
told a panel on startup investment at Aalto University in
September. “I want to spend it on startups.”  Siilasmaa started F-Secure, originally called Data Fellows,
in 1988 as a student at the Finnish technology institute that is
now Aalto University. The company listed shares on the Helsinki
stock exchange in 1999, the last major high-tech company to join
the stock exchange in the Nordic country.  He owned  39.73 percent  of F-Secure as of Dec. 31, according
to the company’s website. He has invested in Finnish startups
including online shopping portal Fruugo Oy, together with
Ollila, and micropayment supplier  Ape Payment Oy , and worked
with the Finnish government to establish startup incubators.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  