-- Nokia Reports Smartphone Sales That Beat Analyst Estimates; Shares Rise
-- B y   D i a n a   b e n - A a r o n
-- 2012-01-26T16:35:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/nokia-reports-smartphone-sales-that-beat-analyst-estimates-shares-jump.html
Nokia Oyj (NOK1V) , a year into an alliance
with  Microsoft Corp. (MSFT)  to try to win back market share lost to
 Apple Inc. (AAPL) , sold more smartphones last quarter than analysts
predicted, boosting confidence in its ability to compete.  Nokia delivered 19.6 million smartphones that can handle
tasks such corporate e-mail and playing movies, including the
Lumia models that went on sale in November, the Espoo, Finland-
based company said today. That’s about 1 million more than the
average estimate of analysts. Apple sold 37 million iPhones in
the same period.  “There might be a bit of relief there because people were
very concerned after Apple results that Nokia would have to warn
significantly more,” said  Alexander Peterc , an Exane BNP
Paribas analyst in  London . “It’s less about the quality of
earnings themselves and more to do with the relief that it’s not
worse.”  Chief Executive Officer Stephen Elop is betting Nokia can
sell Microsoft-based Windows Phones fast enough to compensate
for the 10-year-old Symbian line it’s phasing out. Nokia’s
Lumia, which started selling in  Europe  and are expanding into
markets such as  India  and  China  where the smartphone battle is
its early stages, sold more than 1 million units to date, Nokia
said.  “In the war of ecosystems, clearly there are some strong
contenders already on the field,” Elop said in a statement.
“And with Lumia, we have demonstrated that we belong on the
field.”  Ollila Successor  Nokia shares rose as much as 29.2 cents to 4.35 euros and
traded 2.7 percent higher at the 6:30 p.m. close in Helsinki.  The company nominated Risto Siilasmaa, the founder and
chairman of Finnish security software maker F-Secure Oyj, as its
next chairman, succeeding 61-year-old Jorma Ollila. Marko Ahtisaari, Nokia’s design chief, was promoted to executive vice
president and will report directly to Elop.  The fourth-quarter  net loss  was 1.07 billion euros ($1.4
billion), or 29 cents a share, weighed down by a 1.1 billion-
euro impairment charge on the map unit. Sales declined 21
percent to 10 billion euros as deliveries of lower-priced
handsets shrank 1 percent to 93.9 million units.  Chicago-based Navteq Corp., which Nokia agreed to buy in
2007 for $8.1 billion, added a map database as well as a
business selling mapping services to other companies. Nokia
reorganized it together with advertising and other services into
the Location & Commerce division which began operating in
October.  Lumia Sales  Nokia began selling the 420-euro Lumia 800 smartphone in
six European countries in November, followed in December by the
270-euro Lumia 710 in  Hong Kong ,  Taiwan ,  Singapore , India and
 Russia .  The U.S. will get the Lumia 900 from AT&T Inc, while T-
Mobile USA  is already selling  the Lumia 710. Nokia plans to
release Lumia phones in China in the first half.  “The worst fears are wiped away with the comment of well
over 1 million to date,” said Michael Schroeder, a Helsinki-
based analyst with FIM Bank. “There’s still a lot of
uncertainty because in absolute terms these are very small
volumes so much more is needed to be able to project longer term
development, which is where the investor focus is now.”  The world’s largest handset maker since 1998 with market
shares as high as  40 percent , Nokia had a  23.9 percent share  of
overall handset sales in the third quarter, Gartner Inc.
estimates showed. In smartphones, Nokia fell behind Samsung
Electronics Co. and Apple last year,  Strategy Analytics  said.  Asha Line  Elop, 48, is also refreshing Nokia’s cheaper handset lines,
which have declined against competition from Asian
manufacturers. The company introduced the colorful  Asha  line,
which includes dual-SIM handsets, in October, and is revamping
its low-end software to run more apps and compete better against
cheap Android handsets.  Adjusted operating margin for the handset business climbed
0.1 percentage point to 4.9 percent in the quarter from the
previous period, Nokia said today. The company forecast the
business will be around break even this quarter. It didn’t give
an annual target, citing its transition and macroeconomic
uncertainty.  Apple said this week it more than doubled quarterly net
income to a record of $13.1 billion. In December, about  45
percent  of U.S. shoppers who bought a smartphone in the previous
three months said they purchased an iPhone, and 47 percent chose
 Google Inc. (GOOG) ’s Android, according to the Nielsen Co.  Nokia Siemens Networks, the network-equipment venture with
Siemens AG, had an operating profit of 67 million euros. The
venture received a cash injection of 1 billion euros from its
parents last year.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Diana ben-Aaron in Helsinki at 
 dbenaaron1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  