-- Beverly Perdue Says She Won’t Seek Second Term as North Carolina Governor
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y   a n d   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-26T21:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/north-carolina-governor-perdue-says-she-won-t-seek-second-term-ap-reports.html
North Carolina  Governor Beverly Perdue, a Democrat elected in 2008 who struggled to maintain
support among voters, won’t run for re-election.  North Carolina is a so-called swing state that backed
President  Barack Obama  in 2008 by less than 1 percentage point.
Hoping to solidify support there, the  Democratic Party  scheduled
its September national convention in  Charlotte .  Still, the state’s Democratic chief executive foundered,
with less than a third of voters approving of her performance,
according to a Public Policy Polling survey this month. The poll
indicated that Perdue, a 65-year-old who is North Carolina’s
first female governor, would face a  tough re-election fight .  Her announcement today came after a battle with the
Republican-dominated Legislature over school funding.  “The thing I care about most right now is making sure that
our schools and schoolchildren do not continue to be the victims
of shortsighted legislative actions and severe budget cuts
inflicted by a legislative majority with the wrong priorities,”
Perdue said in a statement.  “Therefore, I am announcing today that I have decided not
to seek re-election. I hope this decision will open the door to
an honest and bipartisan effort to help our schools.”  David Parker , North Carolina’s Democratic Party chairman,
said in a statement e-mailed to reporters that the party would
have “no trouble selecting a strong gubernatorial candidate.”  Fights With Lawmakers  Former Charlotte Mayor Patrick McCrory, who is seeking the
Republican nomination for the November election, led Perdue in
various polls by at least 10 percentage points, said Ballard
Everett, a Raleigh consultant for Republican candidates.  Perdue, a former lawmaker and lieutenant governor, clashed
repeatedly with the Legislature, in Republican hands for the
first time since the 1870s. They have fought over issues
including benefits for the jobless and letting death-row inmates
use statistical evidence of racial discrimination to challenge
their convictions.  She  proposed  a 0.75 percent sales tax this month to fund
education, noting that North Carolina ranks 49th in per-pupil
spending on schools. State Senate leader Phil Berger and other
members of the Legislature denounced the idea.  Making Herself Scarce  While television trucks lined the north lawn of the State
Capitol in Raleigh and flanked the front gate at the Governor’s
Mansion, the only official word of Perdue’s decision came in a
brief press release issued just after noon. Jay Parmley,
executive director of the North Carolina Democratic Party, said
he was surprised by the decision.  “This was her own personal decision,” he said. “She was
under no pressure, at all, from anyone.”  Perdue benefited in the 2008 election from a surge in
voters drawn by the Obama campaign, said  Tom Jensen , director of
Public Policy Polling in Raleigh. Democrats stand a better
chance of holding the governor’s office without Perdue on the
ballot, he said.  “Perdue’s chances for re-election were pretty close to
zero, so I guess she finally saw the writing on the wall,” said
Jensen, whose firm works for Democratic candidates.  Republicans capitalized on discontent with Obama and the
economy to capture a majority of governorships in 2010, and
elections this year will give them another chance to expand
their lead. Of the 11 governor races this year, all but three
are in states currently led by Democrats.  Hunting a Candidate  In North Carolina, potential Democratic candidates include
state Representative Bill Faison of Orange County and Lieutenant
Governor Walter Dalton, Everett said. Calls to Faison and Dalton
weren’t immediately returned.  The Progressive Change Campaign Committee, based in
 Washington , today solicited its members’ interest in a possible
candidacy by Representative  Brad Miller , a Raleigh Democrat who
has decided not to run again after a decade in Congress.  Miller has not ruled out the idea, said LuAnn Canipe, a
spokeswoman.  “Perdue not running again is good news for Democrats up
and down the ticket,” Jensen said. “Obama wouldn’t have wanted
to be seen in public with Perdue. My advice to any candidate
would have been to avoid her like the plague.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net ;
David Mildenberg in Austin at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  