-- Novozymes Targets Top of 2012 Sales Range as Enzymes Win Buyers
-- B y   A n d r e w   N o e l   a n d   M o r w e n n a   C o n i a m
-- 2012-01-26T07:57:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/novozymes-targets-top-of-2012-sales-range-as-enzymes-win-buyers.html
Novozymes A/S (NZYMB) , the world’s biggest
maker of enzymes for biofuel, said sales growth in 2012 will
probably be at the top end of its forecast range as customers
turn to its ingredients for  animal feed , drugs and detergents.  BioBusiness, a unit using biotechnology and microorganisms
to make drug-ingredients, is poised to expand at a “double-
digit” rate excluding acquisitions, Chief Financial Officer
Benny Loft said in an interview in London. Novozymes forecasts
companywide sales growth at existing businesses of 4 percent to
8 percent, compared with 7 percent in 2011.  Novozymes is spending 14 percent of sales on research and
development to fend off DuPont Co.’s Danisco and  Royal DSM NV (DSM)  as
well as a plethora of startup competitors. By mid-year, the
Copenhagen-based supplier to  Procter & Gamble Co . will introduce
an enzyme that lets first-generation biofuel plants process 3
percent to 4 percent more corn feedstock, cutting waste.  “They are still the leader in the industry and their
innovation is as strong as ever,” Jens Thomsen, an analyst at
Silkeborg, Denmark-based Jyske Bank, said by phone. “They have
good growth prospects globally.”  Even with “quite low visibility for 2012,” Novozymes’
sales growth may be at the high end of company forecasts,
Thomsen said. The global economic slowdown makes the increase
more likely to be in the middle or lower end of the range,
Richard Koch, a Stockholm-based analyst at Cheuvreux, said in a
phone interview.  Household Products’ Growth  For enzymes used in household products, such as detergents
that can wash clothes at lower temperatures, sales growth at
existing operations will be a “bit higher” than 7 percent this
year, Loft said Jan. 24. Demand has been buoyed by  China ’s
emerging middle class as well as an increased presence in
detergent brands in the U.S., where enzymes’ use is still at
nascent levels compared with  Europe .  Novozymes (NZYMB)  is experiencing “nice growth” in  Brazil  and
“good traction” in Europe for catalysts used in animal feed to
boost the uptake of proteins, as chemists replace phosphate
alternatives and nations ended the use of bone meal after the
emergence of mad-cow disease, Loft said.  Though western beermakers are cautious about using enzymes,
the products are being more readily embraced by brewers in
 emerging markets  to overcome variations in raw-material quality
such as barley, he said.  DSM Competition  Novozymes shares have  fallen  about 9 percent from a week-
ago high, weighed down by investor concern that a U.S. customer
is seeking supplies from Heerlen, Netherlands-based DSM in place
of the Danish manufacturer’s products.  Poet LLC, the largest U.S. corn-based ethanol producer by
installed capacity, said on Jan. 23 that it will form a joint
venture with DSM to produce second-generation cellulosic ethanol
and license the technology worldwide. Novozymes provides enzymes
to Poet and was expected to supply the  Sioux Falls , South
Dakota-based company’s Project Liberty facility, according to
Rune M. Dahl, an analyst at DnB Markets in London.  Novozymes’ existing supply contracts with Poet will be
honored and no major financial effects are expected, Loft said.
The result of the contest as DSM’s products go head-to-head with
Novozymes’ technology has yet to be seen, and the best second-
generation enzyme technology will prevail, he said.  The Danish company is “able to cope with increased
competition,” Jyske Bank’s Thomsen said. “They are used to
head-on-head competition with Danisco.”  Supplying vs Building  The Danish manufacturer is  supplying  enzymes to the first
commercially viable second-generation bioethanol plant in  Italy ,
and the facility will be operational in 2012, one year before
the DSM project, according to Loft.  “Investing in plants is not part of our plans,” the CFO
said. “Maybe in time we will review our strategy if we find
it’s not working, but we don’t need a big announcement.”  DuPont’s $7.1 billion acquisition of enzyme maker Danisco
last year highlighted interest in the industry among chemical
companies keen to escape the cyclical commodity markets that
have increasingly become the domain of petrochemical suppliers
in the  Middle East  and  Asia .  Novozymes’  deals  include the purchase of Merck KGaA’s
bioagriculture science unit for $275 million last year that
added a range of products designed to improve yields.  The company also considered a bid for Chr. Hansen Holding
A/S before that company’s private equity owner, PAI Partners,
staged an initial public offering in 2010. A likelihood of
antitrust hurdles made it difficult for Novozymes to take its
interest any further, Loft said.  Rather than a takeover, the fate of the two companies is
now intertwined after Novozymes’s largest investor, Novo A/S,
bought a 26 percent stake worth $714 million in Chr. Hansen this
month. The two manufacturers are likely to strengthen R&D ties,
yet they’ll be run as separate businesses, Loft said, adding
that Novo having board seats at both companies won’t pose a
problem.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Andrew Noel in  London  at 
 anoel@bloomberg.net ;
Morwenna Coniam in London at 
 mconiam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at 
 bkammel@bloomberg.net  