-- To Be Young, in Love, and Highly Marketable
-- B y   K a r l a   S w a t e k
-- 2012-01-26T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/to-be-young-in-love-and-highly-marketable.html
There’s no guarantee it will last --
young love has a funny way of fizzling out. And even now its
supercharged sweetness is gag-inducing for some onlookers. But
one thing is clear: The romance between tennis’ longtime World
No. 1,  Caroline Wozniacki , and golf’s biggest rising star, Rory McIlroy, No. 3 on the official World Golf Ranking, is boosting
the couple’s marketability and earning power.  The youthful “Wozzilroy,” as McIlroy nicknamed the couple
last fall, boasts combined 2011 earnings from winnings and
endorsements of close to $30 million, according to sports
marketing firm CSE, with the 22-year-old McIlroy (No. 21 on the
 2012 Power 100 ) pulling in $17.2 million, including endorsement
deals with Jumeirah, Oakley, Audemars Piquet, and Spanish bank
Santander, and 21-year-old Wozniacki (No. 40), earning $12
million, including deals with the likes of Adidas, Yonex,
 Turkish Airlines , and Oriflame.  Beyond bank accounts that can well afford such gifts as the
custom engraved “Wozzilroy” golf club McIlroy bestowed on
Wozniacki in October, each has what the other covets. Before her
Australian Open defeat, Wozniacki held the WTA Tour’s No. 1
ranking for more than 66 weeks, but she has yet to win one of
tennis’ four Majors, an acknowledged milestone to greatness.
McIlroy accomplished that goal in his own sport in 2011 when he
won the  U.S. Open  but has yet to climb to the top of the World
Golf Ranking (currently, Power 100 No. 11 Luke Donald and No. 19
 Lee Westwood  are ahead of him).  While they’re doing quite well on their own, thank you, Gerry Philpott, chief executive of E-Poll Market Research, says that
as long as Wozzilroy stay together and continue to win, they
could boost the endorsement portion of their incomes by as much
as 50 percent. Not only do they motivate each other -- “I think
we definitely spur each other on,” McIlroy has said -- their
combined brand as a young, athletic, wholesome couple can appeal
to even the most conservative of blue-chip companies. The
romance is playing out well beyond the normal confines of
newspaper sports and business pages. Wozniacki has become a
regular in lifestyle and fashion websites and magazines, and
McIlroy, drawing ever-larger galleries at the tournaments in
which he competes, is more frequently joining her there. And the
couple already has the biggest bellwether of modern celebrity --
as they crisscross the globe attending each other’s sporting
events, a pack of paparazzi follows their every move.  By the Nielsen/E-Poll N-Score numbers, the attributes most
associated with McIlroy are related to his talent and common-man
appeal: Talented (63 percent), Approachable (32 percent), and
Down-to-Earth (31 percent) are among his highest-scoring
attributes, while Wozniacki brings an element of glamour as she
is considered Attractive (45 percent), Stylish (30 percent),
Cute (37 percent), and Beautiful (28 percent). But neither is a
particularly high “Awareness” or “Appeal” athlete, so any media
coverage relating to their relationship rather than their
respective sports should benefit them both.  Not every celebrity athlete relationship pans out --  Chris
Evert  and  Greg Norman ’s fairy-tale midlife marriage lasted a
mere year and five months, and do we even need to mention Kris Humphries and  Kim Kardashian ? But Wozzilroy has made a good
start. And like any top-notch athletes, they’re fueled by
competition, so this should keep them together: Former WTA Tour
No. 1 Ana Ivanovic is back with her on-again, off-again golfer
boyfriend Australian  Adam Scott  (Power 100 No. 84). Ahead of the
Australian Open, Aussie bookmaker TAB Sportbet offered a Love
Match Special in which bettors could wager on which of the elite
tennis-golf power couples would be the first to win a major in
2012. Our money’s on Wozzilroy.  (Click  here  to see the complete  2012 Power 100 .)  To contact the writer on this story:
Karla Swatek at  KSWAK@aol.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Beucke at   dbeucke@bloomberg.net  