-- Obama Wins in Global Poll Showing Investors Resist Gingrich
-- B y   M i k e   D o r n i n g
-- 2012-01-26T16:45:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/obama-wins-in-global-poll-showing-investors-resist-newt-gingrich.html
U.S. investors are rooting for Mitt Romney and those outside the country are for  Barack Obama .  Newt Gingrich  is generating little enthusiasm anywhere.  The expectation in markets of every region is that Obama
will be re-elected president in November, an outlook shared by
72 percent of respondents worldwide in a quarterly Bloomberg
Global Poll of 1,209 Bloomberg customers who are investors,
traders or analysts, conducted Jan. 23-24.  “The recent improvements of the economy will help Obama’s
re-election” along with “the lack of coalition among the
Republicans,” says Jason Vieira, an international analyst for
the brokerage firm Cruzeiro do Sul Corretora in  Sao Paulo  and a
poll respondent.  As U.S. growth strengthens, global investors are warming to
Obama’s economic stewardship, with 40 percent of them optimistic
about the impact of his policies on the business climate, up
from 30 percent who said so just seven weeks ago.  In a potential election match-up between Obama, 50, and
Romney, 64, a former private equity executive, global
respondents are split, with 41 percent choosing each as better
for the world economy. U.S. investors sided 3-to-1 with the
Republican and those outside the U.S. 2-to-1 with Obama.  “Customers outside the U.S. not only know President Obama
better than  Mitt Romney , they like him a lot better, and they
have shown that since the beginning of the Bloomberg Global
Poll,” says J. Ann Selzer, president of Selzer & Co., the  Des
Moines ,  Iowa , company that conducted the poll for Bloomberg.  Backing Obama  Faced with a choice between the Democratic incumbent and
Republican Gingrich, 68, on who would be better for the world
economy, global respondents back Obama 52 percent to 25 percent.
Those in the U.S. give Gingrich a 44 percent plurality against
35 percent for Obama with 21 percent unable to tell how they
would resolve the dilemma.  Poll participants are divided over whether Romney’s private
equity experience better equips him to manage the  U.S. economy 
from the Oval Office. Forty-five percent say it would, compared
with 41 percent who say it wouldn’t. U.S. respondents place
greater weight on Romney’s investment background, with almost
two-thirds of them considering it an asset.  “Romney’s financial bona fides might seem like a natural
fit for these investors, yet he has not convinced them his
stewardship would be better for the global economy than the
current president,” Selzer says.  Attack Ads  On the campaign trail, Romney has stressed his background
as co-founder of Boston-based Bain Capital LLC to claim
competence to strengthen the U.S. economy.  Allies of Gingrich sponsored a television advertising
campaign attacking the impact of leveraged buyouts that Romney
managed throughout his years at the company.  Even as poll respondents are split over whether experience
in private equity is a credential for the presidency, 7 of 10
say the industry’s business practices generally have a
beneficial impact on the economy.  Investors in all regions consider the  tax rate  Romney  has
paid  on his income too low, a view held by two-thirds of
respondents worldwide and 56 percent in the U.S.  While Romney didn’t release tax returns showing he paid a
13.9 percent rate on income of $21.6 million in 2010 until the
second day of the poll, he had already said he paid a rate of
about 15 percent.  Changing Assessment  Investors have narrowly reversed their assessment of the
impact of an Obama re-election on U.S. financial markets since
the last poll in December. His re-election is viewed as
favorable by 44 percent against 40 percent unfavorable. In the
last poll, a second Obama term was considered beneficial to the
markets by 38 percent of respondents compared with 44 percent
who said it would be a drag.  Since the last poll was completed Dec. 6, estimates for
U.S. growth have increased, unemployment has declined and the
benchmark  Standard & Poor ’s 500 stock index had risen 5.4
percent as of the market’s close in  New York  yesterday.  The median forecast for fourth-quarter growth is 3.1
percent, up from 1.8 percent in the previous quarter, according
a Bloomberg survey of economists.  Forty-eight percent of poll respondents predict the U.S.
will be among the world’s best-performing markets this year, the
highest rating for the country since the poll began in 2009 and
more than twice that of Brazil and  China , the second-ranked
markets.  Giving Obama Credit  Respondents are divided by region in granting Obama credit
for the economy’s improved performance. Seventy-three percent of
those in the U.S. say he doesn’t deserve credit; 54 percent of
respondents outside the U.S. say he does.  The general opinion of Obama has improved, with 51 percent
of global respondents viewing him favorably compared with 48 who
said so in December. Still, only 27 percent of those in the U.S.
have a positive opinion of the president.  Investors are split about evenly on Romney, 38 percent
favorable against 40 percent unfavorable and 22 percent with no
opinion. Among those in the U.S., 61 percent say they like the
former Massachusetts governor.  Fifty-nine percent of poll respondents express a negative
opinion of Gingrich versus 17 percent with a positive opinion.
U.S. respondents have an even more unfavorable view of the
onetime U.S. House speaker: 69 percent say they don’t like him.  Investors view members of Congress from both parties
unfavorably. Sixty-four percent have a negative opinion of
congressional Republicans and 58 percent a negative view of
congressional Democrats.  The poll has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.8
percentage points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mike Dorning in  Washington  at 
 mdorning@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net . 