-- Obama 30 Percent Millionaire Tax Poses Risk With Limited Payoff
-- B y   S t e v e n   S l o a n
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/obama-30-percent-millionaire-tax-poses-risk-with-limited-payoff.html
President  Barack Obama ’s proposal to
require high earners to pay at least 30 percent of their income
in taxes is only one of several potential ways to boost the tax
rate paid by the wealthiest Americans, tax experts say.  Other options for raising taxes for the highest earners,
who Obama has said don’t pay their fair share of taxes, include
increasing the rate on investment income, revising the
alternative minimum  tax  or further reducing the number of
deductions that can be claimed by those earning more than $1
million a year.  Each path poses political risks and might fall short of the
revenue needed to reduce the  U.S. budget deficit . Also, top
earners might develop fresh tactics for driving down their
annual tax bills.  “It will always be a challenge to have a rule that nobody
can get around,” said David Kautter, managing director of the
Kogod Tax Center at American University in Washington. “I refer
to it as closing off the escape routes.”  In his State of the Union address to Congress this week,
Obama proposed a more defined version of the so-called Buffett
Rule named for investor  Warren Buffett , who has called for U.S.
millionaires like him to pay more taxes. Obama said those with
income topping $1 million should have a tax rate of at least 30
percent. The Obama administration hasn’t provided details,
including how and whether the tax would be phased in or how
business income reported on individual returns might be
excluded.  Chances Slim  Though the proposal’s chances for advancing in Congress
before the November election are slim, Democratic leaders
pledged yesterday to spend the year pressuring Republicans to
consider such a plan. Democrats are also pushing to allow the
2001 and 2003 tax cuts to expire on Dec. 31 for high earners.  “The issue is going to be at the forefront of the debate
all year,” Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada
Democrat, told reporters.  An alternative that lawmakers could consider is changing
the tax treatment of investment income. While ordinary income,
such as wages, is taxed at a rate as high as 35 percent, capital
gains and dividends are taxed at a rate of 15 percent.  “The reason that a high-income person would pay low taxes
is the historically low rate on capital gains and dividends,”
said  Chuck Marr , director of federal  tax policy  at the
Washington-based Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, which
advocates for low-income people.  Investment Income  Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney  demonstrated
the benefits of the preferential tax rates for investment income
when he released his 2010  tax return  on Jan. 24, which showed he
paid 13.9 percent on $21.6 million in income. More than half of
the former Massachusetts governor’s earnings were considered
 capital gains  and dividends.  Also, the discussion of Romney’s returns reignited the
political debate over the treatment of carried interest, or the
profit stake that private-equity managers receive from
successful investments and which is taxed at the capital gains
rate of 15 percent. Romney’s 2010 income included $7.4 million
in carried interest, according to his campaign.  Raising rates on investment income, and changing the tax
treatment of carried interest, has proven to be difficult in
Congress. One of the biggest decisions lawmakers face this year
is whether to let the capital gains rate rise to 20 percent next
year. Dividends would be taxed as ordinary income unless
Congress acts.  High Earners  Taxes on capital gains could rise to as much as 25 percent
for high earners next year once a new tax included in the 2010
health-care law and a provision that limits itemized deductions
take effect, according to  Donald Marron , director of the  Tax
Policy Center , a nonpartisan research group in Washington.  Those increases still wouldn’t be enough to send the  tax
rate  of high earners across Obama’s 30 percent threshold,
Kautter said.  “There’s no way to get there unless you increase the rate
on the lower-tax income,” he said.  Another alternative for raising taxes for high earners,
according to Kautter, would be to prevent the deductibility of
charitable giving for this group. While the Obama administration
has proposed eliminating deductions for housing, health care,
retirement and child care for the highest earners, it has spared
charitable giving.  “What gets you down to a lower tax number is all the
deductions,” Kautter said.  Another path could include revisions to the alternative
minimum tax, or AMT, which is designed to prevent people from
avoiding taxes legally. The parallel tax system doesn’t
eliminate the preference for investment income, which is
something Congress could change if lawmakers determined that was
necessary, said Neal Weber, a tax partner in the  Washington 
office of Cherry Bekaert & Holland LLP.  “In today’s tax law, capital gains are taxed at 15 percent
for both regular tax purposes and for AMT tax purposes,” he
said. “Perhaps under a new AMT tax regime, you would not use a
15 percent rate. You would use a different rate.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Steven Sloan in Washington at 
 ssloan7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  