-- Obama’s Brewer Encounter Sidetracks Message
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-27T00:02:51Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/obama-s-tarmac-encounter-with-brewer-sidetracks-white-house.html
President  Barack Obama ’s encounter
with Arizona governor Jan Brewer yesterday on an airport tarmac
in Phoenix sidetracked the administration’s effort to keep the
media focused on the president’s message.  “I’m glad you guys are focused on the important things,”
White House press secretary  Jay Carney  said as he briefed
reporters aboard Air Force One from  Las Vegas  to Denver. Five of
the nine questions posed to Carney were about the short meeting
between Obama and Brewer yesterday.  Obama told ABC News in an interview that the meeting was
“not a big deal” and a “classic example of things getting
blown out of proportion.”  When Brewer, a Republican, greeted Democrat Obama upon his
arrival yesterday, she handed him an envelope with a letter
asking for a meeting on  Arizona ’s economy and suggesting they
visit the U.S.-Mexico border together. The two then conversed
closely for several minutes and Brewer was photographed with her
finger in the air pointing in Obama’s direction.  Brewer told reporters afterward that Obama “was a little
disturbed about my book.” The disagreement was over her
characterization in her political memoir of a White House
meeting in 2010 to talk about illegal immigration, she said.  “He didn’t feel that I had treated him cordially,” she
said. “I said I was sorry he felt that way, but I didn’t get my
sentence finished.”  At the airport, the president “noted” that “her
description of that meeting was not accurate, did not reflect
what happened in the meeting in the Oval Office,” Carney said.  Hand Gestures  Brewer has made several media appearances over the last 24
hours recounting yesterday’s conversation and suggested she was
gesturing and not pointing or wagging a finger at Obama.  “I was talking, and I talk with my hands,” Brewer said on
 CBS News . “I’ve always been kind of animated.”  Brewer said she was respectful.  “I thought he was kind of thin-skinned,” she said, adding
that Obama walked away while she was “in the middle of a
sentence.”  Obama and Brewer have been at odds over issues including
immigration, the economy and health care. Obama called the 2010
immigration law she signed “misguided” and the  Justice
Department  sued to block it.  As attention was focused on the incident, the Arizona
governor’s book, “Scorpions for Breakfast: My Fight Against
Special Interests, Liberal Media, and Cynical Politicos to
Secure America’s Border,” jumped into the top 100 in sales over
the last 24 hours on Amazon.com. It was at number 285,568.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Denver at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steve Komarow at   skomarow1@bloomberg.net  