-- Obama’s Populist Message Put to Test Where Voters Still Struggle
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/obama-s-populist-message-put-to-test-where-voters-still-struggle.html
President  Barack Obama  is testing
his populist message on a trip through five electoral
battleground states where he is trying to persuade voters to
stick with him even as their economic prospects remain clouded.  From the rescue of the U.S. auto industry to the housing
crisis, Iowa,  Arizona ,  Nevada , Colorado and  Michigan  showcase
the challenges on Obama’s path to re-election. He won all but
Arizona in 2008, and his fortunes this year may ride on whether
voters there agree with him on the outlook for the economy.  “Today, three years after the worst economic storm in
three generations, we are making progress,” Obama said at a
manufacturing plant yesterday in  Cedar Rapids ,  Iowa , the first
stop on his post-State of the Union tour. “Our economy is
getting stronger.”  What progress there has been in the five states hasn’t
been enough to recover all the losses from the recession. In
Iowa, Arizona, Nevada and Colorado, the unemployment rate is
higher than when Obama took office. Nevada’s jobless rate is the
highest in the U.S. at 12.6 percent, well above the national
rate of 8.5 percent in December. Michigan’s decline is largely
due to the reduction in the state’s labor force.  Adding to Obama’s challenge, the economic health of the
states, like the nation as a whole, is at least somewhat
dependent on forces beyond the administration’s control,
including the European debt crisis and swings in energy prices
driven by geopolitical forces such as rising tension with  Iran .  Recovery Uneven  “Every one of these states’ future is contingent on the
effectiveness of our political leaders both home and abroad,”
said  Diane Swonk , chief economist at Mesirow Financial Inc. in
 Chicago . “They represent the unevenness of the recovery.”  Obama is taking a populist approach to even things out.
From Osawatomie,  Kansas , where he invoked Republican Teddy Roosevelt in a Dec. 6 speech, to the House chamber, where he
delivered his State of the Union address, Obama talked about
“fair play” for middle-income Americans and getting the
wealthy to pay a “fair share.”  “There’s a lot of economic insecurity, and there is some
sense that there is unfairness in the system,” said George Edwards, author of “The Strategic President: Persuasion and
Opportunity in Presidential Leadership.” “If you’re appealing
to those who feel that way, populist rhetoric may resonate.
Whether or not it does resonate at the moment is an open
question.”  Modest Growth Forecast  Obama’s campaign isn’t counting on a dramatic acceleration
of the economy. The Federal Reserve Open Market Committee
yesterday said it expects “modest” growth over coming quarters
and that “the unemployment rate will decline only gradually.”  Since World War II, only one U.S. president --  Ronald Reagan  -- has been re-elected with a jobless rate above 6
percent. Reagan won a second term in 1984 with 7.2 percent
unemployment on Election Day, having dropped almost 3 percentage
points in the previous 18 months.  “Elections are always about the future,” said Thomas
“Mack” McLarty, former chief of staff for President  Bill Clinton . “So if the trend line is favorable, admittedly not as
maybe strong as the president and others would like, that’s
still a very strong talking point.”  That argument may leave an opening for Republicans.  “That’s a hell of a campaign slogan: ‘Things could have
been worse and therefore re-elect me,’” said  Ken Duberstein ,
former chief of staff under Reagan. “The Republican argument:
’We can do better’ flies.”  Obama has 10 months to make his pitch to voters.  Housing Woes  The area that may take the most convincing is housing.
While he announced an initiative in his State of the Union
speech to make it easier for eligible homeowners to refinance
their mortgages, over the last three years Obama has failed to
halt the slide in  home prices  or the rise in foreclosures that
began in 2007.  Obama was in Arizona yesterday and is in Nevada today, the
two states that lead the nation in the percentage of residential
homes that are worth less than the loans they secure -- 58
percent in Nevada and 47 percent in Arizona, according to data
provider CoreLogic Inc.  Economic trends are most promising at the beginning and end
of Obama’s trip: Iowa, where the  unemployment rate  is 5.6
percent, the lowest of the states he is visiting, and Michigan,
home to the U.S.’s revived auto industry.  Iowa’s Rise  Iowa is buoyed by rising net income for corn, soybean and
wheat growers and improved cattle, hog and milk earnings.
Farmland values in the state were 31 percent in the third
quarter of last year, according to the Federal  Reserve Bank  of
Chicago.  Even so, Iowa relies on exporting its products domestically
and internationally, according to David Swenson, an economist at
 Iowa State University  in Ames.  “We are stuck in neutral right now waiting for the
national economy to pick up steam,” he said. “If the EU goes
into recession or if the nation continues to limp along, we will
limp along as well.”  Obama’s fourth stop is  Colorado , where the unemployment
rate is 7.9 percent and the foreclosure rate is relatively low.  Obama highlights Michigan as a success story brought about
by the government rescue of General Motors Co. and Chrysler
Group LLC. The state’s economy is recovering from the recession
at the second-fastest pace in the U.S., lifted by the auto
industry revival and local manufacturers, according to the
Bloomberg Economic Evaluation of States Index, which uses data
on real estate, jobs, taxes and stock prices to gauge growth.  “GM is number one in the world again; Ford is investing in
new plants; Chrysler is on the mend,” Obama said yesterday in
Chandler, Arizona. “The American  auto industry  is back.”  Michigan Rebound  In December, Michigan’s unemployment rate was 9.3 percent,
down from 11.3 percent at the start of Obama’s presidency. The
percentage of mortgages in foreclosure or seriously delinquent
at the end of the third quarter also declined.  Some of Michigan’s improvement reflects the severity of its
fall. Thirty-five percent of the state’s residential homes are
underwater, according to CoreLogic, and Michigan has lost almost
300,000  manufacturing jobs  over the last decade.  Even as GM, Chrysler and Ford Motor Co. are adding
production shifts, the bailout of GM and Chrysler engineered by
Obama isn’t universally celebrated.  “The state has not completely turned around and many
people here harbor a deep resentment over the government
intervention in the auto industry,” said Patrick Anderson,
chief executive of Anderson Economic Group LLC in East Lansing,
Michigan.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Julianna Goldman in  Las Vegas  at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  