-- Obama Seeks Tax Break for Natural-Gas Trucks, Oil Lease Sale
-- B y   J u l i a n n a   G o l d m a n   a n d   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 2012-01-26T20:58:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/obama-seeks-tax-break-for-natural-gas-trucks-oil-lease-sale.html
President  Barack Obama  said tax
breaks for natural-gas powered trucks will help the U.S. cut its
dependence on  imported oil .  Obama, in his second day promoting policies laid out in his
State of the Union address on Jan. 24, proposes a credit
equivalent of 50 percent of the extra cost of purchasing a
natural gas-powered truck compared with one that runs on diesel
or gasoline.  Developing natural gas “could power our cars and our homes
and our factories in a cleaner and cheaper way,” Obama said in
the text of remarks in Las Vegas at a  United Parcel Service Inc. (UPS) 
natural gas refueling station built with the aid of money from
the economic stimulus. “We, it turns out, are the  Saudi Arabia 
of natural gas. We’ve got a lot of it.”  U.S. energy  production , manufacturing and education are
shaping up to be the main themes of Obama’s economic message in
his re-election campaign. His trip this week runs through five
electoral battleground states that the president’s political
advisers have targeted for the November vote.  The five, Iowa,  Arizona , Nevada,  Colorado  and  Michigan ,
have a total of 48 of the 270 Electoral College votes needed to
claim the White House. Obama won all of them except Arizona in
2008.  Energy Debate  The initiative Obama promoted today grows out of speech on
U.S. energy policy last March, in which Obama called for cutting
oil imports by one-third in a decade. Republicans have accused
his administration of stifling production through regulations
and restrictions on drilling on public lands, particularly
offshore  “This administration’s lofty rhetoric” on increased
American energy production doesn’t match “their job-destroying
actions that have blocked new energy production on federal lands
and waters,”  Washington  Republican Doc Hastings, chairman of
the House Natural Resources Committee, said in a statement.  The U.S. is the world’s largest oil-consuming country and
about half of that comes from imports, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration.  Billionaire investor  Boone Pickens  has been lobbying for
incentives to stimulate greater use of natural gas as a vehicle
fuel to replace imported oil. During the 2008 campaign he met
with Obama and Arizona Senator  John McCain , the Republican
presidential candidate, to discuss the proposal. Pickens also
promoted wind and solar sources to generate electricity, which
Obama also has endorsed.  Pickens Reacts  Pickens said the president’s initiatives on energy mirror
the proposals he outlined almost four years ago.  “The ball’s now in Washington’s court,” Pickens said in a
statement. “Despite the political partisanship that divides
Washington, I am hopeful and confident Congress will put
America’s best energy future first.”  Legislation to spur greater gas use has been introduced in
the House and Senate.  Pickens, founder and chairman of Dallas-based BP Capital
LLC, is the largest shareholder of  Clean Energy Fuels (CLNE) , a
natural-gas supplier for bus and truck fleets. Obama’s audience
today included employees from UPS and Clean Energy Fuels,
according to the White House.  Gulf Lease  Obama also highlighted a previously proposed lease sale for
oil and gas production in the central  Gulf of Mexico  to take
place on June 20.  The administration plans to make approximately 38 million
acres available in a lease sale that could result in production
of 1 billion barrels of oil and 4 trillion cubic feet of natural
gas, according to the  Department of Interior .  “The Central Gulf of  Mexico  remains the area with the
greatest offshore oil and gas potential in the entire United
States outer continental shelf,” said Tommy P. Beaudreau,
director of the  Bureau of Ocean Energy Management , in a
statement.  Obama pointed to natural gas production in his State of the
Union address, his last before he faces voters in November, as a
way to support thousands of jobs and reduce oil use.  He backs drilling for gas in shale rock. Hydraulic
fracturing, the process of injecting water, sand and chemicals
underground to free gas trapped in rock, could create more than
600,000 jobs by the end of the decade, according to the
administration.  Regulating Fracking  Obama said the drive for new drilling would be accompanied
by regulations to ensure safe drilling practices. Those would
include a requirement that companies operating on public lands
disclose the chemicals used in the fracking fluid.  U.S. natural-gas production averaged 1.89 trillion cubic
feet a month through October, 13 percent higher than the average
during President  George W. Bush ’s two terms, according to Energy
Department data. Crude oil production is 2 percent higher, the
department said.  From  Las Vegas , Obama traveled to Buckley Air Force Base in
Aurora, Colorado, to highlight a U.S. Navy plan to purchase one
gigawatt of electricity from solar, wind and other renewable
energy sources. A gigawatt can power 250,000 homes, the
administration said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Julianna Goldman in Washington at 
 jgoldman6@bloomberg.net ;
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  