-- Logitech Drops After Cutting Outlook on Euro, Slowing Demand: Zurich Mover
-- B y   C h i a r a   R e m o n d i n i
-- 2012-01-26T16:47:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/logitech-cuts-its-full-year-forecasts.html
Logitech International SA (LOGN) , the
world’s biggest maker of computer mice, dropped the most in nine
months in Zurich trading after cutting full-year forecasts for
the third time, citing the weaker euro and declining sales.  Logitech shares fell 12 percent to 6.58 Swiss francs. The
company reduced its sales  forecast  for the fiscal year ending
March 31 to about $2.3 billion, with operating income predicted
at about $60 million. Logitech, which also produces gaming
hardware, in September cut its forecast for full-year operating
profit to about $90 million on sales of about $2.4 billion.  “The biggest disappointment is the guidance revision,”
 Michael Foeth , an analyst at Vontobel Holding AG, said in a note
today. “With that we fear confidence in management is eroding
further.”  The revision came as Logitech reported net income for the
quarter ended Dec. 31 that fell 15 percent to $55 million,
missing analysts’ estimates. The Morges, Switzerland-based
company is under pressure from the proliferation of tablet
computers that aren’t controlled by mice, which is eroding its
traditional desktop and notebook business. The euro has dropped
5.2 percent against the dollar in the past three months.  “The euro has weakened considerably” during the past
quarter, Chairman and interim Chief Executive Officer Guerrino  De Luca  said in the statement. “In addition, webcams and
remotes continue to be impacted more than expected by product
portfolio and market weakness.”  Logitech shares have fallen 64 percent in the past 12
months, compared with a 7.5 percent decline in the  Swiss Market
Index. (SMI)   New Products  “Our number one priority is to have great new products
that are now in the pipeline and we’ve been late in developing
for so long,” De Luca said in a phone interview. The new
devices will be in sectors such as digital music and Logitech’s
core offerings for PCs and in high-end products, De Luca said..
“The contribution from the new products will be visible in the
second part of our 2013 fiscal year.”  Third-quarter sales fell 5 percent to $715 million, the
company said today in a statement. The profit and sales figures
missed analyst estimates of $61.2 million and $749 million,
respectively, based on the average of 10 and 13  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Western Europe  “Weak economic conditions continue to weigh heavily on
consumer sentiment in several mature markets in western  Europe ,
negatively impacting our sales in  Italy ,  Spain  and several other
countries,” Logitech said.  The company had “an operational improvement” in its
Europe,  Middle East  and Africa sales region in the third
quarter, De Luca said. “We cannot control economic conditions
but we’ve fixed what’s under our control in EMEA.” He added
that “the region is in balance with the channel inventories
even if it’s not yet visible in our numbers, but it will be.”  The lowered forecast “is a disappointment, but the
problems are more structural,” Andreas Mueller, an analyst at
Zuercher Kantonalbank, said in an interview. “The market
environment was bad, combined with some product glitches. But it
takes time to revamp a product portfolio.”  Logitech’s product range includes home-entertainment
control, gaming and wireless devices.  Revenue at  LifeSize Communications Inc. , the
videoconferencing unit that Logitech bought in 2009, rose 6
percent in the period.  Cash flow  from operations in the third quarter was $153
million, and the company ended with $523 million in cash, De
Luca said. The company can buy back as much as $177 million in
shares, he said.  De Luca is looking for a successor to replace former CEO
Gerald Quindlen, who left in July. De Luca said on a conference
call that the search for a permanent CEO is “progressing very
well,” without giving a time frame for the appointment.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chiara Remondini in Milan at 
 cremondini@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  