-- Oil Gains a Second Day After Federal Reserve Commits to Low Interest Rates
-- B y   G r a n t   S m i t h   a n d   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-01-26T13:40:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/oil-gains-a-second-day-after-federal-reserve-commits-to-low-interest-rates.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York , reaching a one-week high on speculation that  Federal
Reserve  plans to keep U.S. interest rates near a record low will
bolster investor demand for commodities.  Futures advanced as much as 1.6 percent after the Fed’s
announcement sent the dollar to its lowest in more than a month
against the euro, making assets priced in the U.S. currency more
attractive. The  Federal Open Market Committee  said yesterday it
expects its benchmark  interest rate  to stay “exceptionally
low” at least until late 2014. A wider ban on Iranian oil than
that announced this week by the European Union could boost crude
by $30 a barrel, the International Monetary Fund said.  “It’s a big commitment from the central bank,” said
Sintje Boie, who correctly predicted in November that  oil prices 
would slide by year-end. “For the markets, it’s a liquidity
thing. All this liquidity must go somewhere, and so we have some
money also going into oil. Prices are higher because of this
bubble of liquidity.”  Crude for March delivery on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange  rose as much as $1.60 to $101 a barrel, the highest
price since Jan. 19, and was at $100.74 at 1:32 p.m. London
time. The contract rose 45 cents to $99.40 yesterday. Prices are
up 15 percent in the past year.  Brent oil for March settlement was up $1.71, or 1.6
percent, at $111.52 a barrel on the ICE Futures Europe exchange
in London. The European contract’s premium to Nymex crude was
$10.78 a barrel. That’s down from a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Near-Zero Rates  The Fed had previously pledged to extend near-zero interest
rates through mid-2013. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  also said the
central bank is considering additional asset purchases to
improve economic growth. The dollar was down 0.5 percent at
$1.3169 to the euro after earlier reaching $1.3175, its weakest
since Dec. 21.  “We’re getting a bit of a rally on expectations that the
Fed will be accommodative,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong  who predicts oil
to remain “rangebound” at about $100 a barrel in the coming
months. “Once people focus again on the  euro zone  and slow
growth we’re expecting in the first half of this year, you’ll
see a bit of a correction in the rally.”  U.S. Inventories  Talks on a debt swap to avert a Greek default resume today
as international policy makers squabble over the mounting cost
of the rescue. European finance ministers have insisted
bondholders take bigger losses on their Greek debt.  U.S.  crude stockpiles  rose 3.56 million barrels last week
to 334.8 million, the highest level since the week ended Dec. 2,
according to the Energy Department report yesterday. Imports
advanced 7.1 percent to 8.85 million barrels a day for the
fourth increase in five weeks. Fuel  consumption  climbed 7.5
percent to 19.2 million barrels a day, the largest increase
since Nov. 4, the data showed.  Gasoline  inventories  fell 390,000 barrels to 227.1 million
in the seven days ended Jan. 20, the first decline in four
weeks, the report showed. Supplies were forecast to climb by 2
million barrels, the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey.  A halt of  Iran ’s oil exports to countries in the
Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development would
likely lead to an increase in crude prices of as much as $30 a
barrel, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The blockade of Iranian oil “without offset from other
sources” would trigger an initial gain of around 20 to 30
percent, the IMF  said yesterday  in a document. The closure of
the  Strait of Hormuz  could trigger a much larger rally, it said.  Iran has threatened to close the strait, the transit route
for about a fifth of global oil supply, if an embargo against
its oil exports is implemented. The European Union announced
Jan. 23 that it would ban oil imports from Iran starting July 1
to pressure the Persian Gulf nation over its nuclear program.  Other members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries would replace any loss in supply caused by the EU’s
ban, a person familiar with the oil group’s policy said
yesterday. Iran is OPEC’s second-largest producer after  Saudi
Arabia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net 
Grant Smith in  London  at 
 gsmith52@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss on   sev@bloomberg.net  