-- Oil-Tanker Hire Rates Fall for Second Day as Bookings Dwindle
-- B y   R o b   S h e r i d a n
-- 2012-01-26T17:49:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/oil-tanker-hire-rates-fall-for-second-day-as-bookings-dwindle.html
Hire costs for supertankers hauling
Middle East oil to  Asia  fell for a second day as bookings
weakened amid a holiday in  China .  Rates (BITRPGJP)  for very large crude carriers on the benchmark Saudi
Arabia-to-Japan route slid 3.4 percent to 62.61 industry-
standard Worldscale points, according to the London-based Baltic
Exchange.  Rents climbed 31 percent from the start of the year through
Jan. 20, the last session before Chinese markets closed for this
week’s Lunar New Year holiday. The country is the world’s
second-biggest importer of crude after the U.S. and the largest
energy consumer.  “With China still celebrating the New Year, the pace could
still be below normal levels,” Frode Morkedal, an analyst at RS
Platou Markets AS, wrote in an e-mailed report. The number of
VLCCs hired remained “very low,” he wrote.  The global fleet of supertankers will expand 8.4 percent
this year to 189.7 million deadweight tons, according to
Clarkson Research Services Ltd., a unit of the world’s largest
shipbroker. That’s seven times more than the  International
Energy Agency ’s estimate for a 1.2 percent gain in global oil
demand to 90 million barrels a day.  Fourth Drop  Daily  earnings  on the benchmark route fell 7.6 percent to
$28,461, the fourth straight decline, according to the exchange.
Returns have retreated 12 percent this week, its data show.
Tankers were losing money on the voyage for almost eight weeks
last year through Oct. 19.  The exchange’s assessments don’t account for owners cutting
speed to reduce fuel costs, their biggest expense. The price of
ship fuel, or  bunkers , was little changed at $700.09 a metric
ton, according to data compiled by Bloomberg from 25 ports
worldwide. That compares with an average of $637.38 last year.  Worldscale points are a percentage of a nominal rate, or
flat rate, for more than 320,000 specific routes. Flat rates for
every voyage, quoted in U.S. dollars a ton, are revised annually
by the Worldscale Association in  London  to reflect changing fuel
costs, port tariffs and exchange rates.  The  Baltic Dirty Tanker Index (BIDY) , a broader measure of oil-
shipping costs that includes vessels smaller than VLCCs, slid
0.7 percent to 829.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rob Sheridan in London at 
 rsheridan6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alaric Nightingale at 
 anightingal1@bloomberg.net  