-- Oil Trades Near One-Week High on Speculation U.S. Economy May Boost Demand
-- B y   B e n   S h a r p l e s
-- 2012-01-27T07:48:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/oil-trades-near-one-week-high-on-speculation-u-s-economy-may-boost-demand.html
Oil traded near the highest price in
a week in  New York  and is poised for the first weekly gain in
three amid signs of economic recovery in the U.S., the world’s
biggest crude consumer.  Futures were little changed after climbing for a second day
yesterday. U.S.  durable goods  orders rose more than forecast in
December, according to Commerce Department data, while a report
this week showed gasoline demand increased the most in more than
two months.  Australia ’s crude production may have been cut by a
quarter as Tropical Cyclone Iggy shut platforms. Brent oil’s
premium to New York-traded West Texas Intermediate widened.  “The data we’ve seen out of the U.S. over the last few
months is indicating a recovery in the economy,”  Michael McCarthy , a chief market strategist at CMC Markets Asia Pacific
Pty in Sydney, said by telephone today. “The spread between
Brent and West Texas has blown out again. That suggests the
potential for some supply disruption out of the  Middle East  is
in the back of traders’ minds.”  Crude for March delivery was at $99.63 a barrel in
electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile Exchange , down 7
cents, at 3:29 p.m. Singapore time. Yesterday, the contract
gained 30 cents to $99.70, the highest settlement since Jan. 19.
Prices have climbed 1.2 percent so far this week and 16 percent
in the past year.  Brent oil for March settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange was at $110.68 a barrel, down 11 cents.
The European benchmark contract was at a premium of $11.10 to
West Texas futures. The spread shrank to $9.90 on Jan. 18 and
reached a record $27.88 on Oct. 14.  Technical Support  Crude in New York has technical support along its 50-day
moving average, around $99.28 a barrel today, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Futures slid to an intraday low yesterday
of $99.23. Buy orders tend to be clustered near chart-support
levels.  “West Texas is in a key area between $99 and $102 so if we
do see it trade up through $102.50 in the next few sessions we
could well get a bit of a gallop on,” McCarthy said.  U.S. bookings for durable goods, or products meant to last
at least three years, advanced 3 percent after rising 4.3
percent the prior month, the biggest back-to-back gains in
almost a year, based on a Commerce Department report yesterday
in  Washington . A median 2 percent increase was predicted by 78
economists  surveyed  by Bloomberg News.  Fuel consumption rose 7.5 percent to 19.2 million barrels a
day in the week ended Jan. 20, the largest gain since Nov. 4,
the Energy Department said on Jan. 25.  Iran Sanctions  Oil has also risen this week amid concern European Union
sanctions on Iran will curb supplies. EU foreign ministers
agreed on Jan. 23 to ban petroleum imports from the Persian Gulf
nation from July 1 to pressure the country over its nuclear
program. Iranian President  Mahmoud Ahmadinejad  said his country
is willing to revive talks on its nuclear plans and accused
Western countries of dodging discussions, the state-run Fars
news agency reported yesterday.  Iran  has threatened to close the  Strait of Hormuz  in
retaliation against the embargo. The waterway is a transit route
for about a fifth of the world’s crude, according to the U.S.
Department of Energy.  More than 70 percent of investors in a quarterly Bloomberg
Global Poll said an attack on Iran’s nuclear facilities would
create only a short-term disruption in crude markets. About a
third of 1,209 global investors, traders and analysts surveyed
from Jan. 23 to Jan. 24 said an attack could trigger an oil
shock leading to a global recession.  Tropical Cyclone Iggy  Crude may rise next week on the EU embargo plan and after
the  Federal Reserve  committed to keep  interest rates  near a
record low through 2014, according to a Bloomberg News survey.
Fifteen of 32 analysts and traders, or 47 percent, forecast oil
will advance through Feb. 3. Ten respondents, or 31 percent,
predicted prices will drop and seven estimated there will be
little change.  Tropical Cyclone Iggy reduced Australian oil output this
week by as much as 100,000 barrels a day, or about a quarter of
the country’s average production last fiscal year. The storm
will strengthen to  Category 3  tomorrow, the third-strongest on a
five-step scale, the Bureau of Meteorology said on its website.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ben Sharples in Melbourne at 
 bsharples@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  