-- Oil Rises on Speculation U.S. Interest Rates Near Zero to Boost Fuel Use
-- B y   R a m s e y   A l - R i k a b i
-- 2012-01-26T08:00:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/oil-rises-a-second-day-on-u-s-interest-rate-pledge-rising-fuel-demand.html
Oil rose for a second day in  New
York  on speculation that  Federal Reserve  plans to keep U.S.
interest rates near a record-low will bolster economic growth
and stoke fuel demand in the world’s biggest crude consumer.  Futures advanced as much as 0.9 percent to trade above $100
a barrel and extend yesterday’s 0.5 percent gain. The Federal
Open Market Committee said it expects its benchmark  interest
rate  to stay at “exceptionally low levels” at least through
late 2014. U.S. fuel  consumption  climbed 7.5 percent to 19.2
million barrels a day in the week ended Jan. 20, the largest
increase since Nov. 4, Energy Department data showed.  “Most of the price movement has been driven by the
announcement” from the Fed, said  Tetsu Emori , a commodity fund
manager at Astmax Ltd. in  Tokyo . “Continuing the zero interest-
rate policy should fuel the economy. People could expect oil
demand to go up.”  Crude for March delivery rose as much as 84 cents to
$100.24 a barrel on the  New York Mercantile Exchange  and was at
$99.82 at 3:56 p.m. Singapore time. The contract closed 45 cents
higher at $99.40 yesterday. Prices are up 14 percent in the past
year.  Brent oil for March settlement was up 74 cents, or 0.7
percent, at $110.55 a barrel on the London-based ICE Futures
Europe exchange. The European contract’s premium to March Nymex
crude was $10.73 a barrel. That’s down from a record $27.88 on
Oct. 14.  Near-Zero Rates  The Fed had previously pledged to extend near-zero interest
rates through mid-2013. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  also said the
central bank is considering additional asset purchases to
improve economic growth.  “We’re getting a bit of a rally on expectations that the
Fed will be accommodative,” said Jeremy Friesen, a commodity
strategist at Societe Generale SA in  Hong Kong  who predicts oil
to remain “rangebound” at about $100 a barrel in the coming
months. “Once people focus again on the  euro zone  and slow
growth we’re expecting in the first half of this year, you’ll
see a bit of a correction in the rally.”  Talks on a debt swap to avert a Greek default resume today
as international policy makers squabble over the mounting cost
of the rescue. European finance ministers have insisted
bondholders take bigger losses on their Greek debt.  U.S.  crude stockpiles  rose 3.56 million barrels last week
to 334.8 million, the highest level since the week ended Dec. 2,
according to the Energy Department report yesterday. Imports
advanced 7.1 percent to 8.85 million barrels a day for the
fourth increase in five weeks.  Iran  Impact  Gasoline  inventories  fell 390,000 barrels to 227.1 million
in the seven days ended Jan. 20, the first decline in four
weeks, the report showed. Supplies were forecast to climb by 2
million barrels, the median estimate in a Bloomberg survey
showed.  A halt of Iran’s oil exports to countries in the
Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development would
likely lead to an increase in crude prices of as much as $30 a
barrel, according to the  International Monetary Fund .  The blockade of Iranian oil “without offset from other
sources” would trigger an initial gain of around 20 to 30
percent, the IMF  said yesterday  in a document. The closure of
the  Strait of Hormuz  could trigger a much larger rally, it said.  Iran has threatened to close the strait, the transit route
for about a fifth of global oil supply, if an embargo against
its oil exports is implemented. The European Union announced
Jan. 23 that it would ban oil imports from Iran starting July 1
to pressure the Persian Gulf nation over its nuclear program.  Other members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries would replace any loss in supply caused by the EU’s
ban, a person familiar with the oil group’s policy said
yesterday. Iran is OPEC’s second-largest producer after  Saudi
Arabia .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ramsey Al-Rikabi in Singapore at 
 ralrikabi@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alexander Kwiatkowski at 
 akwiatkowsk2@bloomberg.net  