-- Home Births in U.S. Rise to Highest Level on Record, Health Study Shows
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-01-26T17:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/home-births-in-u-s-rise-to-highest-level-on-record-health-study-shows.html
Home births  rose 29 percent from
2004 to 2009, to almost three quarters of a percent of all U.S.
live deliveries, the highest level since 1989, according to
health authorities.  They were most common among non-Hispanic white women, where
about 1 in 90 births are at home, according to a  report  from the
 National Center for Health Statistics . Also, women ages 35 and
older who already had children were more likely than others to
have chosen a birth at home rather than a hospital.  In 2009, the most recent year for which data is available,
there were 29,650 babies born at home, the highest level since
the NCHS began collecting data in 1989. Over 60 percent of the
deliveries were attended by  midwives , 5 percent by physicians,
and 33 percent by “others,” including family members or
emergency medical technicians. Most of the non-hospital births
were planned, according to the report.  “Women may prefer a home birth over a hospital birth for a
variety of reasons, including a desire for a low-intervention
birth in a familiar environment,” the authors of the report
wrote. They may also deliver at home for religious reasons or a
lack of transportation in rural areas.  Fewer babies born outside a hospital were to unmarried
mothers or teenagers, the report said. In addition, the babies
were less likely to be preterm, low birth weight or multiple
births, which suggests that home birth attendants are screening
women, preferring those who were low risk, the report said.  In 2009,  Montana  had the highest percentage of home births
with 2.6 percent, followed by Oregon and  Vermont .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in  New York  at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at   rgale5@bloomberg.net . 