-- Momenta Drops After Amphastar Wins Stay on Lovenox: Boston Mover
-- B y   S u s a n   D e c k e r
-- 2012-01-26T21:31:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/momenta-drops-after-amphastar-wins-stay-in-lovenox-case-1-.html
Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. (MNTA) , owner
of patents on the blood-thinner Lovenox, fell the most in four
months after an appeals court cleared the way for  Watson
Pharmaceuticals Inc. (WPI)  to sell a generic version of the drug.  The U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit granted
Watson partner Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Inc. a stay yesterday
of an October order that prevented sales of the drug copy. The
court, which heard an appeal of the order two days ago, gave no
reason for its decision in the stay. Watson said today it and
Amphastar plan to begin sales immediately.  Momenta owns two patents for Lovenox and gets a share of
the profit earned from generic Lovenox sold by partner  Novartis
AG (NOVN) ’s Sandoz unit. A federal judge in  Boston  blocked Watson and
Amphastar from selling their copy, saying Momenta was likely to
win a patent-infringement suit it had filed. The Federal Circuit
said its order yesterday “does not represent a final decision
with respect to the merits of the pending appeal.”  Momenta  tumbled  $3.98, or 21 percent to $15.13 in Nasdaq
composite trading of 7.6 million shares, or nine times the
three-month daily average, at 4 p.m. in  New York . It’s the
biggest drop since Sept. 19, when the  Food and Drug
Administration  approved Amphastar’s Lovenox copy. Watson rose
$1.04, or 1.8 percent, to $58.65 in New York Stock Exchange
trading.  Amphastar is shipping its drug to Watson today, and Watson
expects to begin distributing generic Lovenox by tomorrow, Patty Eisenhaur, a spokeswoman for Watson, said in a telephone
interview.  Two Patents  The copy of Lovenox may add 20 cents to 25 cents a share to
Watson earnings in the first year,  Michael Tong , an analyst with
Wells Fargo Securities in New York, said in a note to clients
today.  Watson would have to begin sales knowing there’s a risk it
may later lose the case, Tong said. Under federal law, it could
be forced to reimburse Momenta and Sandoz three times the amount
of any lost profits should Parsippany, New Jersey-based Watson
later lose the case.  Momenta, based in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , has two patents
for a process of making enoxaparin, the main Lovenox  compound.  “While disappointing, this decision does not reflect a
final ruling on the appeal or the ultimate case,” Momenta Chief
Executive Officer Craig Wheeler said in a statement. “Any
launch by Watson or Amphastar would be at risk and we continue
to pursue our claims in the District Court. We have confidence
in the strength of our patents.”  Sanofi, the Paris-based maker of the branded medicine,
reported $1.6 billion in Lovenox sales in the first nine months
of last year.  The appeals court case is Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. v.
Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Inc., 12-1062,  U.S. Court of Appeals 
for the Federal Circuit ( Washington ). The lower court case is
Momenta Pharmaceuticals Inc. v. Amphastar Pharmaceuticals Inc.,
11cv11681, U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts
(Boston).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susan Decker in Washington at 
 sdecker1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Shepard at 
 mshepard7@bloomberg.net  