-- Honda’s Ito Forecasts Business Results to Be Best in At Least Five Years
-- B y   A n n a   M u k a i   a n d   Y u k i   H a g i w a r a
-- 2012-01-27T06:09:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/honda-s-ito-forecasts-return-to-pre-lehman-profits-in-complete-rebound-.html
Honda Motor Co. (7267)  President Takanobu Ito forecast that business results at  Japan ’s third-biggest
carmaker will climb to the highest in at least five years, led
by sales of Accord sedans and Civic compacts in North America.  Business results in the year ending March 2013 will recover
to levels achieved before the failure of Lehman Brothers
Holdings Inc. roiled global markets, as sales climb above 4
million vehicles for the first time, Ito said in an interview
this week. Lehman filed for bankruptcy in September 2008, six
months after Honda earned record annual profits.  “It will be the year of the complete rebound,” Ito said
at the company’s Tokyo headquarters. “Sales in  North America 
will lead the recovery. We’ll introduce a fully revamped Accord
in the fall, and that will be a big plus to our sales.”  Ito’s comments reflect a revival in confidence by Japanese
automakers as they recover from a year plagued by natural
disasters at home and in Thailand.  Toyota Motor Corp. (7203) ,  Asia ’s
largest carmaker, said this week annual sales will be 100,000
units higher than it anticipated last month.  “Honda’s targets are definitely aggressive, but the  U.S.
economy  seems like it’s going to recover to a better-than-
expected level this year so it’s likely for them to achieve
it,” said  Mitsushige Akino , who oversees $600 million at
Ichiyoshi Investment Management Co. in  Tokyo . “They’ve
remodeled their best-selling cars, and we can expect strong
sales in North America to help them regain market share.”  Reversal of Fortune  Honda fell 1.9 percent to close at 2,689 yen in Tokyo. It’s
gained 15 percent this year, the best performer among Japan’s
three biggest automakers. That’s a reversal from 2011, when the
stock’s 27 percent drop made it the worst performer.  Honda’s operating income, or sales minus the cost of goods
sold and administrative expenses, will probably double to 586.6
billion yen ($7.6 billion) next fiscal year after shrinking 52
percent, according to the average of 24 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg. Earnings reached 953.1 billion yen, 851.9
billion yen and 868.9 billion yen, respectively, in the years
before Lehman’s bankruptcy.  Ito, 58, is counting on the U.S. market to drive growth.  Redesigned Accord  The redesigned Accord sedan, the Civic and CR-V sport-
utility vehicle will help Honda increase U.S. sales 24 percent
to 1.43 million units in 2012, Ito said. Sales in the market,
Honda’s  largest , declined 6.8 percent last year, led by a 17
percent drop in deliveries of the Accord. The Accord is Honda’s
best-selling U.S. model, followed by the Civic.  Ito ruled out any major overhaul of the Civic after the
current version of the sedan, which failed to receive the
“recommended” status its predecessors had from Consumer
Reports magazine, was the best-selling model in the compact-car
segment in the last three months of the year.  Honda’s new models will give it an edge in the U.S. over
 South Korea ’s  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380) , which is producing close to
full-capacity, said Kota Yuzawa, a Tokyo-based analyst at
Goldman Sachs Group Inc. That puts Honda in “good position” to
regain lost market share, he said.  Honda may not be alone. Japan’s three biggest carmakers are
poised to gain market share this year at the expense of U.S.
producers led by  General Motors Co. (GM)  and  Ford Motor Co. (F) ,
according to five analysts surveyed by Bloomberg.  ‘Unstoppable’ Motorization  In  China , the world’s largest auto market, Honda expects
its sales to rise more than 20 percent to 750,000 units in 2012
after they shrank for the first time in 2011 in a slowing
market, Ito said. The company plans to introduce three gas-
electric hybrid models in the country this year, he said.  “China is still strong,” Ito said. “Once motorization
captures a market, it’s unstoppable.”  China’s total vehicle sales -- including cars, trucks and
buses -- grew 2.5 percent to 18.5 million units last year,
according to the  China Association of Automobile Manufacturers ,
trailing growth in the U.S. for the first time in at least 14
years. Honda expects the market to expand to 20 million this
year, or “just above” China’s economic growth, he said.  In  Thailand , where the country’s worst floods in almost 70
years disrupted assembly plants and  supply of components  in
2011, Honda plans to resume production starting in April, Ito
said. Damages stemming from Thailand forced the company to scrap
this fiscal year’s profit forecast.  Reorganizing Factories  As part of Honda’s strategy of producing cars where they
are sold, the company plans to reorganize its Japanese factories
so they focus on production of minicars, a growing category that
makes up about 40 percent of the nation’s auto demand, Ito said.
Orders for the N Box minicar in Japan reached 27,000 units in
its first month of sales, more than double Honda’s original
target.  Minicars, defined as vehicles no longer than 3.4 meters (11
feet) in length, will account for 40 percent of Honda’s Japan
sales, compared with 25 percent now, Ito said.  Honda joins Toyota and  Nissan (7201)  in reorganizing operations as
the yen, which has gained against the world’s 16 most-traded
currencies for two straight years, erodes the value of exports.
Honda plans to boost the portion of vehicles sold in the same
region they’re built to as high as 80 percent, Ito said. In
2010, Honda sold about two out of three Japan-built cars in the
country.  Officials at Toyota and Nissan this month have also echoed
plans to increase their portion of vehicles sold in the region
where they’re assembled.  “Minicars will be key for us in Japan in the next five
years,” Ito said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Anna Mukai in Tokyo at 
 amukai1@bloomberg.net ;
Yuki Hagiwara in Tokyo at 
 yhagiwara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Young-Sam Cho at 
 ycho2@bloomberg.net  