-- London Cycle Race Won’t Make 2013 World Tour Schedule, Ruling Body Says
-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 2012-01-26T16:16:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/london-cycle-race-won-t-make-2013-world-tour-schedule-ruling-body-says.html
A new annual professional cycling
road race in London won’t be added to the elite UCI World Tour
calendar in 2013, the International Cycling Union said.  Earlier today, the office of London mayor  Boris Johnson  and
British Cycling announced plans to host an annual pro road
cycling race starting from August 2013. The two-day event will
combine a 100-mile pro race consisting of 200 elite riders, as
well as a mass participation race.  “We know that the British cycling has big development
plans, and we are very pleased with it,” UCI spokesman Enrico Carpani said in a phone interview today. “But so far, there are
no projects that have been submitted for any new race and so we
can say today that for 2013, it would be really impossible to
have a new race in the World Tour calendar.”  Organizers are keen to add the  London  race to the elite UCI
World Tour schedule, which includes the  Tour de France  and the
Giro d’Italia, “as soon as possible,” Jonny Clay, British
Cycling’s head of cycle sport and membership services, said in
an interview.  There are currently 28 events on the UCI World Tour
calendar for 2012. Five races are scheduled for August,
including the Vuelta a Espana, which is held from Aug. 18 to
Sept. 9. Although London hosted the start of the 2007 Tour de
 France , Britain hasn’t got an event on the calendar of the
world’s greatest road races.  Organizers have opened a two-month tender process to find a
commercial partner for the event, which has the backing of world
road race champion  Mark Cavendish  of Britain.  Growth Plans  “This will become one of the biggest cycling events in the
world in years to come,” said Clay, a bronze medalist at the
2000 Sydney Games in the team cycling pursuit.  Organizers want the London pro road race to rival the
commercial success of the 30-year-old London Marathon and the
Wimbledon tennis championships, which celebrated its 125th
anniversary last year.  “One of the ambitions of this event is that the revenue it
will hopefully generate will be fed back into cycling and into
cycling infrastructure in London,” Kulveer Ranger, mayor of
London’s director of environment, said to a press conference
today.  London has invested more than 200 million pounds ($314
million) into cycling in the past four years, Ranger said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh on the London sports desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  