-- Ontario Bonds Attract Growing Number of Central-Bank Buyers
-- B y   D a v i d   S c a n l a n   a n d   C h r i s   F o u r n i e r
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/ontario-bonds-attract-growing-number-of-central-bank-buyers.html
More than 20 central banks around
the world have bought Ontario bonds in recent years, adding to
evidence that global investors are attracted to the relative
safety of the Canadian province’s debt.  “If we were talking four or five years ago, there were
probably two central banks around the world that bought our
bonds,” said Gadi Mayman, chief executive officer of the
Ontario Financing Authority, in an interview yesterday. “At
last count, it’s over two dozen, so we have good demand.”  Borrowing costs for  Canada ’s most populous province have
declined as the European debt crisis propels investors in search
of safety. The province saved about C$1.8 million ($1.8 million)
in annual interest costs when it sold C$750 million of 10-year
debt this month, compared with a sale in November. Ontario sold
C$1.25 billion in five-year bonds last week, priced to yield
58.5 basis points over benchmark government debt.  “Ontario is seen as a safe port in stormy seas,” said
Ontario Finance Minister Dwight Duncan, in an interview
yesterday at Bloomberg’s headquarters in New York. “The Canada
brand is still strong.”  The province of 13 million people has sold about C$30
billion in debt this fiscal year ending March 31, close to its
target of C$35 billion, Mayman said in  New York .  Ontario’s credit outlook was reduced to “negative” last
month by Moody’s Investors Service, citing “softening”
economic prospects. Moody’s said it wants to see a “credible
plan” in the March budget to address the province’s deficit and
stabilize the debt to maintain the Aa1 rating.  Duncan said the province is committed to reducing its debt,
which at 35 percent of the economy, is among the highest of
Canadian provinces.  “First we have to get back to balance; second we have to
look at the debt,” Duncan said. “Ontario’s debt is too high.”  Ontario Financing usually issues about 75 percent of its
bonds domestically and the rest in international markets, Mayman
said. The  portion  this year is about 80 percent.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Scanlan at 
 dscanlan@bloomberg.net ;
Chris Fournier in Halifax,  Nova Scotia , at 
 cfournier3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  