-- Oral Sex Cancer Virus More Common in Men Than Women, Study Finds
-- B y   E l i z a b e t h   L o p a t t o
-- 2012-01-26T13:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/oral-sex-cancer-virus-more-common-in-men-than-women-study-finds.html
About 10 percent of men and 3.6
percent of women are orally infected with human papillomavirus,
which is acquired through oral sex and can cause cancer.  There are two peaks in the age people are infected -- 30 to
34 and 60 to 64, according to the study published today in the
 Journal of the American Medical Association . The virus is linked
to throat cancer, and is becoming a more common cause of the
disease as Americans quit smoking.  The virus, called HPV, is the most-common sexually
transmitted virus in the U.S., where half the population will be
infected at some time in their lives, according to the  Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention . It is known to cause
cervical, vulvar, vaginal, penile and anal cancer. The higher
HPV infection rate in men explains why their head and neck
cancer rates are greater, said Maura Gillison, a professor at
the Ohio State University College of Medicine in Columbus.  “This provides pretty strong evidence that the higher
infection rate is the reason why,” said Gillison, the study’s
lead author, in a telephone interview. “This is a jumping board
for additional research.”  Besides sex, other demographics associated with oral HPV
infection include age, lifetime number of sex partners, and the
number of cigarettes smoked each day.  The research is the first population-based study to examine
how many men and women were infected, Gillison said.  Existing Vaccines  Though Merck & Co.’s Gardasil and  GlaxoSmithKline Plc (GSK) ’s
Cervarix target genital HPV, it’s unknown whether the vaccines
will protect against oral infections as well.  Gardasil is approved for preventing cervical, vaginal and
anal cancers and genital warts, and is recommended for girls and
women 9 to 26 years old. It’s also approved for genital warts
and anal cancer in boys and men of the same ages. Cervarix is
approved for preventing cervical cancer in females 9 to 25.  In places like  Australia , where 80 percent of girls have
been vaccinated, the lowered prevalence of the virus may be
enough to protect men against oral HPV infection, Gillison said.
Further research needs to be done to see if vaccination will
help lower oral HPV infection rates, she said. Not enough people
in the U.S. are vaccinated to get a benefit, she said.  “We have a cancer that occurs largely among men and
there’s no screening or preventive strategy,” Gillison said.
It’s difficult to sample the site in the throat where the virus
makes its home, she said.  Among the 2,483 men who participated in the study conducted
in 2009 and 2010, 264 had an oral HPV infection. Of the 2,385
women, 88 had an oral infection, the study showed.  The infection was contracted by about 7 percent of those
ages 30 to 34 and 11 percent of those 60 to 64, according to the
study.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elizabeth Lopatto in New York at 
 elopatto@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  