-- Orders for U.S. Durable Goods Probably Rose
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:33Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/orders-for-u-s-durable-goods-probably-climbed-for-third-month.html
Orders for U.S. durable goods
probably rose in December for a third month, boosted by demand
for aircraft and business equipment that signal further gain in
manufacturing, economists said before a report today.  Bookings (DGNOCHNG)  for goods meant to last at least three years
climbed 2 percent after a 3.7 percent increase the prior month,
according to the median forecast of economists surveyed by
Bloomberg News. Demand for durable goods excluding
transportation equipment advanced 0.9 percent, the fourth-
straight gain, economists projected. New-home sales last month
climbed to the highest level in a year and initial jobless
claims rose, other reports may show.  Increases in consumer and business spending, coupled with
lean inventories, may keep driving  production  in coming months
and spur the economy. Sustained demand from  China ,  Brazil  and
other emerging economies may help shield U.S. factories from a
slowdown in  Europe  stemming from its sovereign debt crisis.  “It’s a good cruising speed for manufacturing,” said
 Jonathan Basile , a senior economist at Credit Suisse in  New
York . “It’s a good way to end the year.”  The Commerce Department will report the durables figures at
8:30 a.m. in Washington. Estimates of the 77 economists surveyed
by Bloomberg ranged from a drop of 2.8 percent to a gain of 6.7
percent.  The pickup in manufacturing is being accompanied by signs
of improvement in the housing market. Sales of new properties
increased 1.9 percent to a 321,000 annual rate in December,
according to the median projection in the Bloomberg survey
before the Commerce Department’s report at 10 a.m. The gain
would be the fourth straight.  Federal Reserve   Even with the advances, “strains in global financial
markets continue to pose significant downside risks to the
economic outlook,” Federal Reserve policy makers said yesterday
in a statement after keeping  interest rates  near zero.  Other gauges showed a stronger pace of manufacturing at the
end of last year. The Institute for  Supply Management (NAPMPMI) ’s factory
index rose in December to the highest level in six months.
Measures of production and new orders increased as inventory
indexes fell, indicating that output will continue to climb.  A report from the Fed on Jan. 18 showed factory production
in December rose the most in a year as manufacturers churned out
more computers, cars and construction material.  The gain helps explain why shares of machinery makers have
outpaced the broader stock market this year. The  Standard &
Poor’s Machinery Supercomposite Index , which includes companies
like Cummins Inc. and Caterpillar Inc., has climbed 14 percent
so far this year, compared with a 5.4 percent increase for the
 S&P 500 Index .  Boeing Orders  An increase in durable orders excluding transportation
equipment would follow a 0.3 percent gain in November. Boeing
Co., the largest U.S. aircraft maker, said it received 287
orders in December, up from 96 in November.  Orders for non-defense  capital goods  excluding aircraft, a
proxy for business investment in items such as computers,
engines and communications gear, rose 1 percent after a 1.2
percent decline, according to the median forecast.  A recovering auto industry is boosting manufacturing. Ford
Motor Co., the second-largest U.S. carmaker, posted a 10 percent
sales gain last month from a year earlier. In 2011, 2.15 million
light vehicles were sold, an 11 percent increase.  “We were able to end the year on, what we feel, is a high
note,”  Erich Merkle , Ford’s U.S. sales analyst, said on a
conference call Jan. 4.  Harley-Davidson  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG) , the biggest U.S. motorcycle maker,
this week reported a fourth-quarter profit as sales rose 12
percent from a year earlier.  Purchases were up “despite the challenging but slightly
improving economic environment,” John Olin, chief financial
officer at the Milwaukee-based company, said on a teleconference
call. He cited “improved  consumer confidence ” among reasons
for the gain.  Factories have also boosted payrolls. Manufacturers  added
23,000 jobs  in December, the most in five months, Labor
Department figures showed Jan. 6.  A Labor Department report today may show first-time claims
for jobless benefits rose to 370,000 last week from a four-year
low of 352,000 the prior week, according to the median
projection in a Bloomberg survey before the 8:30 a.m. release.
The data can be volatile around holidays, and last week included
Martin Luther King Day during which state employment offices
were closed.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at   cwellisz@bloomberg.net  