-- Lorillard Doesn’t Need Merger to Reward Investors, CEO Says
-- B y   C h r i s   B u r r i t t
-- 2012-01-26T21:16:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/lorillard-doesn-t-need-merger-to-reward-investors-ceo-says.html
Lorillard Inc. (LO) , the subject of
takeover speculation for more than three years, doesn’t need to
combine with another tobacco producer to reward shareholders,
Chief Executive Officer Murray Kessler said.  “It would be a high hurdle for somebody to come in” and
acquire Lorillard, Kessler, 52, said yesterday in a telephone
interview from the company’s headquarters in Greensboro,  North
Carolina . “We can deliver a double-digit shareholder return
over the long term. Lorillard can continue to run as an
independent company and create tremendous value.”  The spinoff of Lorillard from  Loews Corp. (LTR)  in June 2008
prompted speculation by analysts that the third-largest U.S.
tobacco company may draw takeover bids amid shrinking cigarette
demand. Lorillard’s Newport brand, the top-selling U.S. menthol
cigarette, is boosting sales, making it attractive once the U.S.
Food and Drug Administration decides how to regulate the minty
flavoring,  Thomas Russo , a partner at Gardner Russo & Gardner in
Lancaster, Pennsylvania, said in an interview yesterday.  “We still believe Lorillard remains a likely candidate for
consolidation once the issue of the use of menthol is
resolved,” Ann Gurkin, an analyst at Davenport & Co. in
Richmond, Virginia, wrote in a note to clients Jan. 19. She
rates Lorillard as “neutral.”  Possible bidders include Toyko-based  Japan Tobacco Inc. (2914) ,
the U.K.’s  Imperial Tobacco Group Plc (IMT)  and  Reynolds American
Inc. (RAI) , the second-biggest U.S. tobacco maker, Russo said.  ‘Brand Presence’  “Newport gives them commanding brand presence,” Russo
said. “There’s potential for an acquirer to expand that brand
into non-menthol cigarettes and smokeless tobacco.”  Russo manages more than $4 billion including shares of
 Philip Morris  International Inc., British American Tobacco Plc
and  Altria Group Inc. (MO)   Lorillard  fell  2.7 percent to $111.38 at the close in New
York.  Japan Tobacco doesn’t comment on speculation, Yoshinori Tsuchiya, a company spokesman, said today by e-mail. Imperial,
based in Bristol,  England , said it’s “interested in potential
value-creating acquisition opportunities worldwide” while
declining to comment on Lorillard speculation, Simon Evans, a
company spokesman, said by e-mail. Maura Payne, a spokeswoman
for Winston-Salem, North Carolina-based Reynolds, also declined
to comment.  Declining Shipments  Lorillard shareholders will keep receiving “double-digit
returns,” Kessler said, after shares advanced 39 percent last
year. Philip Morris, based in New York, rose 34 percent in 2011,
while Reynolds increased 27 percent and Richmond, Virginia-based
Altria gained 20 percent.  Lorillard bucked the industry trend of declining cigarette
shipments in the fourth quarter, Bonnie Herzog, an analyst at
Wells Fargo Securities in  New York , said today in a note. The
company recorded “low-to-single digit volume growth” while
Altria and Reynolds shipments fell.  “Volume stability along with pricing power has delivered
great returns,” said Kessler, who took charge as CEO in
September 2010 after running UST Inc., the largest U.S. snuff
producer.  “We have lots of opportunities for reaching out and
growing” after Lorillard introduced a non-menthol version of
Newport in 2010, he said.  The Newport brand accounted for about 90 percent of
Lorillard’s sales revenue for the fiscal year ended Dec. 31,
2010.  Lorillard is scheduled to report fourth-quarter results
Feb. 9.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Chris Burritt in Greensboro at  cburritt@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Robin Ajello at 
 rajello@bloomberg.net  