-- 30-Year Mortgage Rates Rise From Record Low
-- B y   B r i a n   L o u i s
-- 2012-01-26T15:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/mortgage-rates-for-u-s-30-year-loans-increase-to-3-98-from-record-low.html
Rates for U.S. 30-year mortgages
climbed from the lowest level on record after Federal Reserve
officials pledged to keep their benchmark  interest rate  near
zero through at least late 2014 to help bolster the economy.  The average rate for a  30-year  fixed loan rose to 3.98
percent in the week ended today from 3.88 percent, the lowest in
records dating to 1971,  Freddie Mac  said in a statement. The
average  15-year  rate increased to 3.24 percent from 3.17
percent, according to the McLean, Virginia-based mortgage-
 finance company .  The 30-year rate has been below 4 percent for eight
straight weeks. The Fed yesterday extended its previous plan to
keep rates low at least until the middle of 2013 as more than
two years of economic growth have failed to push  unemployment 
below 8.5 percent. Low borrowing costs are helping support the
housing market, which has been hurt by the high jobless rate and
foreclosures that depress  values  and erode buyer confidence.  “ Mortgage rates  are very, very low and housing is very
affordable,” Celia Chen, housing economist at Moody’s Analytics
in  West Chester ,  Pennsylvania , said in a telephone interview
before the data were issued. “The distressed sales are still a
weight on the market.”  Sales (ETSLTOTL)  of previously owned homes rose 5 percent in December
from the previous month to the highest level since January 2011,
the National Association of Realtors said last week. Distressed
properties -- comprising foreclosures and short sales, where the
price is less than the mortgage balance -- accounted for almost
a third of all purchases.  The number of Americans signing  contracts  to buy existing
houses fell 3.5 percent last month after a 7.3 percent gain in
November, figures from the Realtors showed yesterday.  Home-loan applications decreased in the period ended Jan.
20 after jumping 23 percent in the prior week, according to the
 Mortgage Bankers Association . The measure of  purchase  loans
dropped 5.4 percent, while the  refinancing  index fell 5.2
percent, the Washington-based group said yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Louis in Chicago at 
 blouis1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Taub at 
 dtaub@bloomberg.net  