-- Tour de France Rejects Equity Share in UCI’s Cycling Company
-- B y   A l e x   D u f f
-- 2012-01-26T15:34:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/tour-de-france-rejects-equity-share-in-uci-s-cycling-company.html
Cycling’s ruling body  Union Cycliste
Internationale  is trying to find investors to promote the sport
and raise revenue in new markets after the organizers of the
 Tour de France  rejected the offer.  The Aigle, Switzerland-based group, which sets regulations
and oversees anti-doping controls, has approached wealthy
individuals about taking a stake in its newly-formed unit Global
Cycling Promotion S.A. after Paris-based Amaury Sport
Organisation declined to participate, UCI President Pat McQuaid
said in an interview yesterday.  While emulating other sports federations with commercial
units such as  soccer’s FIFA , the UCI’s move into race promotion
is novel for cycling, whose premier races like the Tour and Giro
d’Italia have been privately-owned for decades. The UCI set up
the inaugural Tour of Beijing in October and plans races in
 Russia  and  South America , McQuaid said.  “We have spoken to people of means” from inside and
outside cycling about investing, McQuaid said, declining to
identify them. ASO, which helped authorities organize the
Beijing race route, “said for the moment they’d like to stay in
the role of service provider,” he added.  Cycling’s season is based around the biggest three stages
races, the Tour de France,  Giro d’Italia  and Vuelta a Espana.
About 87 percent of the races UCI regulates are in  Europe . Tour
organizer ASO, owned by the Amaury family and Lagardere SCA, is
already expanding its business outside Europe with an amateur
cycling event in Argentina, and by providing services at the
Tour of  California .  ASO spokesman Thomas Cariou didn’t immediately return a
phone message seeking comment.  Fewer Resources  The UCI, which is made up of cycling national governing
bodies, has fewer resources than other sports federations to
organize and promote events, McQuaid said. The cycling regulator
had net income of 114,000 Swiss Francs ($124,000) after sales of
25.6 million Swiss francs in 2010, almost half of which came
from the world championship, according to accounts on its
website. Zurich-based FIFA got sales of $3.7 billion from the
2010 soccer  World Cup .  Any UCI profits from the new races would be re-invested
into the sport and distributed among teams, McQuaid said. Teams
are pushing for more revenue amid a plan by London-based sports
marketing company Gifted Group Ltd. to manage a 10-race series
from next year in which teams would own 64 percent of the
business, according to a copy of the proposal. A phone message
left at Gifted Group’s offices wasn’t immediately returned.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Duff in  Madrid   at
 aduff4@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at  at
 celser@bloomberg.net  