-- Lloyds Raises $2 Billion From Senior Unsecured Note Sale
-- B y   H a n n a h   B e n j a m i n   a n d   B e n   M a r t i n
-- 2012-01-26T17:27:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/lloyds-senior-bonds-may-yield-about-315-basis-points-over-swaps.html
Lloyds Banking Group Plc (LLOY) , 41
percent-owned by British taxpayers and cutting 15,000 jobs, sold
unsecured bonds into a market that has been closed to all but
the safest lenders since July.  Lloyds raised 1.5 billion euros ($2 billion) from the five-
year issue, its first senior, unsecured benchmark bond in the
currency since March. Most banks have been priced out of this
market amid the deepening euro-region crisis and concern
European economies are on the brink of recession.  “Lloyds is pushing the envelope in one direction in the
sense that we’re seeing weaker banks being given access to the
market,” said Roger Francis, a credit analyst at Mizuho
International Plc in London. “But while it’s progress, it’s not
the big one that the market’s looking for. That will come when
we see a bank from France or  Spain  sell an unsecured bond.”  The bank is bracing itself for a loss this year as it puts
aside more money against bad loans and as the U.K. economy
shrinks. Britain’s biggest mortgage lender was forced to seek a
government bailout of more than 20 billion pounds ($31 billion)
after its takeover of HBOS Plc in 2008.  Bond Yield  Lloyds priced its new bonds to yield 305 basis points more
than the benchmark swap rate, the lower end of a range of
spreads offered to investors, according to a banker with
knowledge of the deal. The premium was “eye-watering,”  Suki Mann , a London-based strategist at Societe Generale SA, wrote in
a client note.  A Lloyds spokesman wasn’t available for comment when
contacted by phone.  The bank’s last benchmark senior unsecured bond offering
was a 1.5 billion-euro issue of 4.5 percent securities due 2014
in March, according to data compiled by Bloomberg. The notes,
priced to yield 190 basis points more than swaps, now have a 244
basis-point premium.  BNP Paribas SA, Deutsche Bank AG and JPMorgan Chase & Co.
managed today’s deal with Lloyds.  The bank has sold cheaper-to-issue secured notes in the
past year, including 1.25 billion pounds of covered bonds due
2025 that it sold Jan. 19, data compiled by Bloomberg show.
Covered bonds are backed by loans and guaranteed by the issuer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Hannah Benjamin in  London  at 
 Hbenjamin1@bloomberg.net ;
Ben Martin in London at 
 bmartin38@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Paul Armstrong  at 
 Parmstrong10@bloomberg.net  