-- Pacific Basin Surges on Dry-Bulk Rates Optimism: Hong Kong Mover
-- B y   J a s m i n e   W a n g
-- 2012-01-26T04:15:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/pacific-basin-surges-on-dry-bulk-rates-optimism-hong-kong-mover.html
Pacific Basin Shipping Ltd., Hong
Kong’s biggest operator of commodity vessels, rose to the
highest in three months on speculation an increase in vessel
scrapping may spur a recovery in rates.  The carrier climbed as much as 6.9 percent to HK$3.90 in
Hong Kong trading, the highest intraday price since Oct. 17. It
was up 3.6 percent at HK$3.78 as of the midday trading break.
 China Shipping Development Co Ltd. (1138) , part of the nation’s second-
largest shipping group, advanced for a fifth day, jumping as
much as 9.1 percent.  Dry-bulk operators may accelerate ship-scrapping this year
after a global glut helped push the Baltic Dry Index, a
benchmark for rates, to the lowest in three years, according to
Samsung Securities Co. analyst Timothy Ross. Rates may also
rebound following the end of this week’s Lunar New Year holidays
in  China , the biggest customer for ships used to haul  iron ore ,
coal and other commodities, he said.  “Expectations of an index recovery on a rebound in demand
post the Chinese New Year and a scrapping-led moderation in
supply have encouraged investors to take risks on high beta
stocks like the dry-bulk sector,” he said.  Ross raised his ratings on  Pacific Basin (2343)  and Shanghai-based
China Shipping Development to ‘buy’ from ‘sell’ in a Jan. 18
note. Pacific Basin has gained 13 percent since the close of
trading the day before the note, while China Shipping
Development has jumped 22 percent.  The  Baltic Dry Index (BDIY)  has fallen 52 percent this year to 784
because of the Chinese holidays, poor weather in export markets
such as  Australia  and acceleration of vessel deliveries, Ross
said.  Steel mills  and other Chinese factories close for at least
a week around the Lunar New Year holidays, which started Jan. 23.  The index may rebound to 2,000 by the beginning of the
second half of the year as declining rates, rising fuel costs
and scrap metal prices at a decade-high may prompt shipowners to
retire vessels, Ross said in the Jan. 18 note. About 25 percent
of the global dry-bulk fleet is also more than 20 years old, he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jasmine Wang in  Hong Kong  at 
 Jwang513@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Neil Denslow at 
 ndenslow@bloomberg.net  