-- Pandit Does Davos, 0.1% Gloat, Madness Reigns: Jonathan Weil
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   W e i l
-- 2012-01-26T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/pandit-does-davos-0-1-gloat-madness-reigns-commentary-by-jonathan-weil.html
Sometimes a single fact stands out
amid all the clutter, offering a flash of insight and clarity.
Here is one of them:  Citigroup Inc. (C)  Chief Executive Officer
Vikram Pandit is a co-chairman of the World Economic Forum’s
annual meeting this week in Davos,  Switzerland .  At first blush, the notion might seem almost ho-hum, a non-
event. Upon further consideration, this looks like it can’t
possibly be right. Then it turns out, much to our amazement,
that the story is accurate, confirming once again that our world
is stark mad. You really have to wonder why anyone outside of
Citigroup would pick Pandit to lead anything.  It’s one thing for Citigroup to blow itself up so
spectacularly that it needs multiple taxpayer bailouts to stay
afloat. What seems strange is that an organization like the
World Economic Forum would honor the fellow who was Citigroup’s
CEO throughout most of the financial crisis, by selecting him as
one of its six co-chairmen. If  Sheila Bair  had gotten her way
when she was head of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corp., Pandit
would have been fired years ago.  It’s stunning when you think about it: How does Pandit, who
owes much of his fortune to the American public’s largess, wind
up being showcased as a paragon of leadership and free
enterprise, little more than a year after the  U.S. Treasury 
finally sold the last of its Citigroup common  stock ?  And what message are the rest of us are supposed to take
away from this? That his example is to be celebrated?  Global Elites  Maybe the distinction bestowed on Pandit should be of no
surprise at all. Founded in 1971, the  World Economic Forum 
 describes itself  as an international organization of large
corporations that is “committed to improving the state of the
world” with “no political, partisan or national interests.”
But it’s becoming hard not to suspect that the annual gathering
in Davos has become a conclave for global elites to promote
 crony capitalism  and state-backed enterprise, ensuring that
national coffers remain available to be tapped for private gain.  Pandit joined Citigroup in 2007 after selling it his Old
Lane Partners LP hedge fund, which the bank shut the following
year. Pandit’s take from his share of the sale was $165 million,
the last $80 million of which he received in July.  In February 2008, two months into his job as CEO, Pandit
certified in Citigroup’s 2007 annual report that the company’s
internal controls were effective. Eight days before he did that,
the U.S. Office of the Comptroller of the Currency had sent him
a seven-page letter detailing all sorts of ways in which
Citigroup’s controls were inadequate.  In November 2008, in spite of the company’s insistent
refrain that it had “very strong capital,” Citigroup took a
second federal-bailout package. That boosted its proceeds from
the Troubled Asset Relief Program to $45 billion, plus $301
billion of asset guarantees. Another rescue came in 2009, when
the Treasury Department let Citigroup repay $25 billion of its
bailout money in common shares rather than cash.  Then in March 2010, appearing before a congressional
oversight panel, Pandit said Citigroup was a healthy institution
back in November 2008 when the government saved it from going
under. Short sellers (of course!) were to blame for the bank’s
problems, he said.  Today Citigroup says it has returned to profitability,
although investors remain skeptical. At a recent price of $30.25
a share, down 90 percent since Pandit was named CEO, Citigroup
trades for about 50 percent of its common shareholder  equity . In
other words, the markets believe that about half of the $178
billion book value on Citigroup’s balance sheet is imaginary.
The company probably wouldn’t be standing were it not for its
implicit guarantee from the U.S. government.  Right Man  Is this the right man for the World Economic Forum to pick
as one of its co-chairmen for this year’s Davos extravaganza?
Pandit’s bromides at a press conference this week were the sort
of filler any college advertising major could have written.  “Banks have to serve clients, not serve themselves,”
Pandit said. (Were they not serving clients before?) Or this:
“It’s important for the financial system to acknowledge that
there’s a great deal of anger that’s directed at it for the
crisis, and trust has been broken,” he said. “We’ve got to
start addressing that.” The unwashed protesters at Zuccotti
Park had keener insights than this.  Or perhaps the problem here is me, and I’m looking at the
situation the wrong way. For all we know, these little rough
patches in the financial industry offered just the kind of
hands-on experience the forum’s organizers were looking for in a
leader, in which case they found their man.  Maybe if Citigroup blows up again someday, they could put
Pandit in charge of the whole conference.  ( Jonathan Weil  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Jonathan Weil in New York at 
 jweil6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this article:
James Greiff at   jgreiff@bloomberg.net  