-- Investor Confidence Showing Signs of Rebound on ECB Aid, Diamond, Jain Say
-- B y   G a v i n   F i n c h   a n d   E r i k   S c h a t z k e r
-- 2012-01-26T12:20:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/pandit-says-banks-must-focus-on-customers-to-assuage-anger-regain-trust.html
Barclays Plc (BARC)  Chief Executive Officer
 Robert Diamond  and  Deutsche Bank AG (DBK) ’s Anshu Jain said investor
optimism is growing in 2012, as the  European Central Bank 
provides unlimited loans to the region’s lenders.  “We are seeing a big change driven by somewhat more
confidence in the  U.S. economy  and, most importantly, that
Europe is on the right path,” Diamond said in an interview with
Bloomberg Television at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland  today. Markets have been spurred on by the ECB’s
loans last month, he said. “There is a bit more confidence in
the market today.”  The ECB is flooding the banking system with cheap money in
a bid to avert a credit crunch after the market for unsecured
bank debt seized in the second half of last year and cash from
U.S. money market funds dried up. The ECB last month lent banks
an unprecedented 489 billion euros ($644 billion) for three
years. Since then, financial stocks have rebounded 16 percent
while the cost of insuring bank debt against default has fallen.  “We are beginning this year on a mildly better note than
the one we finished on in the fourth quarter,” Jain, who takes
over as co-CEO of Frankfurt-based Deutsche Bank at the end of
May, said in an interview today.  Both Citigroup Inc. (C)  CEO Vikram Pandit and Christian Meissner, Bank of America Corp.’s co-head of global corporate
and investment banking, also said the mood among investors in
Europe has improved.  ‘A Lot Better’  “Sentiment is a lot better than it was a few weeks back
and that’s because of the very strong actions taken by the
ECB,” Pandit said. “A lot of the actions that are happening
are moving in the right direction of a stronger euro and euro
zone.”  The 43-member  Bloomberg Europe Banks and Financial Services
Index  has rebounded 16 percent since the ECB’s so-called Long
Term Refinancing Operation on Dec. 21.  Germany ’s DAX index has
climbed 10 percent this year, the biggest gain among European
benchmarks. The DAX was up 85 points, or 1.3 percent, at 1:15
p.m. Frankfurt time.  The Markit iTraxx Financial Index linked to the senior debt
of 25 banks and insurers declined 10 basis points to 217 today,
the lowest since Oct. 28. The index hit a record of 354 on Nov.
25. Credit-default swaps pay the buyer face value in exchange
for the underlying securities or the cash equivalent should a
borrower fail to adhere to its debt agreements.  The spread between three-month Euribor and the overnight
indexed swap rate -- a barometer of European banks’ willingness
to lend to one another -- narrowed to 78 basis points today from
about 100 basis points on Dec. 8.  ‘Much Better’  “The first three weeks of this year have been much better
than the final quarter of 2011,” Meissner said in an interview.
“Certainly the ECB’s actions before Christmas were a big
component in that but on the other hand there is not yet a clear
sense that the end game is clear or imminent. It’s more positive
for sure but there is some ways to go.”  Other Davos attendees have warned it’s too early to sound
the all clear on  Europe  even after the ECB’s emergency cash.  The ECB’s measures “have relieved the liquidity problems
of European banks but didn’t cure the financing disadvantages
highly indebted countries suffer,” billionaire investor  George Soros  told reporters yesterday. “Half a solution isn’t
enough.”  Industry Consolidating  The industry will also be smaller as lenders eliminate jobs
and increased regulation in the wake of the collapse of  Lehman
Brothers Holdings Inc. (LEH)  in 2008 makes it harder for banks to
maintain their levels of profitability, executives said.  Financial firms globally announced more than 200,000 job
losses in 2011, up from about 58,000 the previous year,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It’s hard to see how the spate of regulations that we’ve
seen unfold over last 18 months will do other than consolidate
our industry even further,” Jain said. “You have to be in the
top three or maximum top seven to be able to sustain
profitability,” he said. “A lot” of the job losses in the
industry are “from some of the new entrants.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gavin Finch in London at 
 gfinch@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Edward Evans at   eevans3@bloomberg.net  