-- Paris Saint Germain Close to Signing of Chelsea’s Alex, Mail Says: Roundup
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2012-01-26T10:38:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/paris-saint-germain-close-to-signing-of-chelsea-s-alex-mail-says-roundup.html
The following is a roundup of soccer
stories from U.K. newspapers, with clickable links to the Web.  Alex Nears Paris  Paris Saint-Germain is close to completing the 4 million-
pound ($6.3 million) signing of Chelsea defender Alex, the  Daily
Mail  said. The move would reunite the Brazilian with former
Chelsea manager  Carlo Ancelotti , who took over the Paris club
last month.  Chelsea owner Roman Abramovich has also blocked manager
Andre Villas-Boas’ move for Porto striker Hulk after being
quoted a world record price of 83 million pounds, the Mail said.
Napoli’s Edinson Cavani is another striker option for the Blues,
the newspaper said.  More Blues  Chelsea expects to complete an 8 million pound-deal for
Genk and Belgium midfielder Kevin de Bruyne this week, the  Daily
Star  said.  The Blues are also ready to increase their rejected bid of
16.7 million pounds for Shakhtar Donetsk midfielder Willian, who
is rated at 25 million pounds, the Star said.  Rodallega, Onuoha  New QPR manager  Mark Hughes  is ready to make a 4 million-
pound offer for Wigan striker  Hugo Rodallega , the  Daily Mirror 
said. Championship leader West Ham is also eyeing the 26-year-
old Colombian, the newspaper said.  Hughes also hopes to complete the signing of Manchester
City defender Nedum Onuoha today after the clubs reached a 2.5
million-pound agreement last night, the  Sun said .  Giovanni Wanted  Villarreal has offered 6.5 million pounds for Tottenham’s
Giovanni dos Santos, with Spurs seeking 8 million pounds, the
 Mail  said.  Granada is also interested in the 22-year-old Mexico
international, who desires a return to Spain, the mail said.  Bid Rejected  West Ham’s 7 million-pound offer Nikica Jelavic was
rejected by Rangers,  Scotland ’s  Daily Record  said.  Jelavic, who leads Rangers with 17 goals, has also been
linked with Liverpool, West Brom, Fulham and QPR. Rangers
previously turned down a 6.5 million pound offer from Leicester,
the Record said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Bensch in  London  at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 