-- Rossi Leads Homebuilders’ Rally on Sub-10% Rate Outlook
-- B y   N e y   H a y a s h i
-- 2012-01-26T21:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/pdg-realty-leads-homebuilders-rally-on-interest-rate-outlook.html
Rossi Residencial SA (RSID3)  surged to a
seven-week high, leading a rally among homebuilders, on
speculation cheaper credit will lift sales after policy makers
signaled plans to cut the benchmark lending rate to below 10
percent.  Rossi,  Brazil ’s sixth-biggest homebuilder by revenue,
advanced 6.4 percent to 9.71 reais at the close of trading in
Sao Paulo, the highest price since Dec. 9. Rival  MRV Engenharia
& Participacoes SA (MRVE3)  jumped 5.3 percent to 14.16 reais, extending
this year’s advance to 32 percent, the best performance on the
benchmark Bovespa index, which climbed 11 percent in the same
period. The  BM&FBovespa Real Estate Index (IMOBBV)  rose 2.7 percent
today, the most in three weeks.  After growth in the world’s second-biggest emerging market
slowed more than expected in the second half of last year, the
central bank’s board said it sees “a high probability” that it
will cut the benchmark interest rate below 10 percent, according
to the minutes from a Jan. 17-18 meeting published today.  “Homebuilders have gained on the prospects of lower
 interest rates , as cheaper credit is surely positive for the
industry,” Joao Pedro Brugger, who helps oversee 80 million
reais ($46 million) at Leme Investimentos in Florianopolis,
Brazil, said by phone today. “Today the central bank indicated
it’s confident that its strategy is working, so rates should
keep falling further.”  The bank’s board, led by President Alexandre Tombini, voted
unanimously at last week’s meeting to cut the benchmark rate to
10.5 percent, the fourth straight reduction.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ney Hayashi in  Sao Paulo  at 
 ncruz4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
David Papadopoulos in New York at 
 papadopoulos@bloomberg.net  