-- Peixe Urbano Boosts Cash and Hiring to Beat Groupon in Brazil
-- B y   A r i   L e v y
-- 2012-01-26T21:35:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/peixe-urbano-boosts-capital-hiring-in-bid-to-fend-off-groupon-in-brazil.html
Peixe Urbano, the largest Brazilian
online daily-deal provider, is loading up on capital, recruiting
U.S. engineers and investing in new products to fend off Groupon
Inc.’s expansion on its home turf.  Following an investment from Morgan Stanley Investment
Management and T. Rowe Price Group Inc. earlier this month, 
co-founder Alex Tabor is spending this week in  California ,
looking for talented computer scientists interested in moving to
Brazil. He’s recruiting at  Stanford University , the  University of
California , Berkeley, and the California Institute of Technology.  Like Groupon in the U.S., Peixe Urbano has grown rapidly in
Latin America by hiring salespeople to sign up local merchants
willing to offer steep discounts. Founded in 2010, it has more
than 1,000 employees and offers deals in over 80 cities in
Brazil,  Argentina ,  Mexico  and Chile. Unlike in the U.S., Peixe
Urbano doesn’t have to contend with established Web companies
like  Amazon.com Inc. (AMZN) , OpenTable Inc. and Yelp Inc. offering
competitive products, Tabor said.  “We have virgin terrain,” Tabor, chief technology officer
of the Rio de Janeiro-based company, said today in an interview
in  San Francisco . “We’re able to get a leadership position and
maintain it.”  Groupon had the biggest user base in  Latin America , with
4.8 million monthly users as of April 2011, followed by  Spain ’s
Groupalia with 2.3 million and Peixe Urbano with 2.1 million,
according to  ComScore Inc.  Tabor said Peixe Urbano’s registered
users more than tripled last year to 16 million from 5 million
in 2010.  Julie Mossler, a spokeswoman for Chicago-based Groupon,
declined to comment on her company’s expansion in Latin America.  ‘Aggressive’ Hiring  Tabor wouldn’t provide financials, though he said the
company has been “aggressive” with hiring. Groupon was
criticized after its initial public offering filing last year
showed that it had racked up $540.2 million in operating losses
since 2008 from spending on sales and marketing. The company
recorded a $10.6 million net loss in the third quarter on
revenue of $430 million.  Peixe Urbano said on Jan. 18 that it raised an undisclosed
amount of capital in a funding round led by New York-based
 Morgan Stanley (MS)  and Baltimore-based T. Rowe Price to “fuel
growth and consolidation” in the region. The company had
previously raised money from hedge fund Tiger Global Management
LLC and venture-capital firms General Atlantic LLC and Benchmark
Capital.  With the new funding, the company is “very well
capitalized” and has no immediate plans for an IPO, Tabor said.  Restaurants, Beauty Salons  The Peixe Urbano website and smartphone application offers
discounts of more than 50 percent to stores and services, with
its biggest markets focused on restaurants, beauty salons and
travel. Peixe Urbano plans to add to its product offerings in
those areas this year, Tabor said, without providing details.  Through recruiting efforts in California, and soon at East
Coast universities including the  Massachusetts Institute of
Technology , the company is hoping to hire at least three
engineers and three business school graduates, Tabor said.  “They get to live in  Brazil  and learn about the Internet
and scalability,” Tabor said. Also helping recruit candidates
is the fact that “we have a really strong brand there,” he
said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ari Levy in San Francisco at 
 alevy5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Tom Giles at 
 tgiles5@bloomberg.net  