-- Pentagon’s Asia Shift Favors Subs, Tankers
-- B y   T o n y   C a p a c c i o
-- 2012-01-26T23:40:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/pentagon-s-focus-on-asia-favors-submarines-bombers-tankers-panetta-says.html
The Pentagon’s shift to forces
focused on  Asia  and the Middle East in a budget outlined today
may protect from deep cuts U.S. makers of aircraft carriers,
submarines, surface-combat vessels, electronic-warfare sensors,
drones, long-range bombers and tankers.  While the plan would slow the pace of shipbuilding, its
emphasis on naval forces in an era of budget-cutting may help
vessel-makers Huntington Ingalls Industries Inc.,  General
Dynamics Corp. (GD) ,  Lockheed Martin Corp. (LMT)  and Austal Ltd. It also
may provide opportunities for aircraft companies  Northrop
Grumman Corp. (NOC)  and  Boeing Co. (BA)  and missile maker  Raytheon Co. (RTN)   “This budget protects, and in some cases increases,
investments that are critical to our ability to project power in
Asia and the Middle East,” Defense Secretary Leon Panetta said
at a news conference at the Pentagon today disclosing elements
of a $613 billion defense proposal for fiscal 2013. That
includes $88.4 billion for continuing combat, led by the war in
 Afghanistan .  Panetta and Joint Chiefs of Staff Chairman General Martin Dempsey presented the budget proposal as part of an effort to
cut $487 billion, or 8.5 percent, from $5.62 trillion in
spending that had been planned for 2012 to 2021. Of that, $259
billion in reductions would occur by 2017.  The fiscal 2013 budget proposes to save about $45 billion,
increasing to $53 billion in fiscal 2014 and $54 billion by
2017, according to Pentagon figures.  ‘Far More Lethal’  The biggest initiative other than military hardware is a
reduction of the Army -- “gradually,” according to Panetta --
to 490,000 personnel from about 565,000 today. The Army numbered
about 480,000 in February 2002, one year before the Iraq
invasion. The budget also calls for reducing the Marines to
182,000 from about 202,000 today.  “They will be fundamentally shaped by a decade of war, far
more lethal, battle-hardened and ready,” Panetta said of U.S.
forces. The Army was increased by as much as 95,000 and the
Marines by 30,000, largely because of the  Iraq war .  Representative Howard “Buck” McKeon, a California
Republican who is chairman of the House Armed Services
Committee, said President  Barack Obama  “has abandoned the
defense spending structure that has protected America for two
generations, turning 100,000 soldiers and Marines out of the
force.  ‘‘Unmanned assets’’ and special forces that Panetta is
relying on ‘‘are a vital component in defending America, but
they are insufficient to meet the challenges America faces,’’
McKeon said.  Base Closings  Panetta said the troop reduction will be accompanied by a
request to Congress for a new round of domestic base closings
‘‘with a goal of identifying additional savings and implementing
them as soon as possible.’’ He provided no specifics about what
bases might be at risk.  The Pentagon’s Asia and  Middle East  emphasis reinforces the
need for a long-range, stealthy bomber, and sustaining the
Navy’s 11-carrier force with 10 air wings and big-deck
amphibious vessels, Panetta said.  Huntington Ingalls of  Newport News , Virginia, is building
the three-ship, $40 billion Gerald R. Ford class of carriers to
be equipped with a new electromagnetic catapult system built by
closely held General Atomics Aeronautical Systems Inc.  ‘‘Modernizing our submarine fleet will be critical to our
efforts to maintain maritime access in these vital regions,”
Panetta said.  ‘Strike Option’  The plan calls for increasing the size of the Navy’s
current Virginia-class attack submarines to carry more Tomahawk
cruise missiles and to develop an undersea, non-nuclear “strike
option” similar to an intercontinental ballistic missile.
Raytheon of Waltham,  Massachusetts  makes the Tomahawk.
Huntington Ingalls and General Dynamics make the submarine.  The “strike option” concept was first proposed by the
 Bush administration  and resurrected in fiscal 2011 under Obama.  The Littoral Combat vessels, made for operating close to
shore by Lockheed Martin of Bethesda,  Maryland , and Austal of
Henderson,  Australia , get an expanded role in the plan. Panetta
said the Navy intends to base some of them in  Singapore  and
other patrol craft in Bahrain. Still, two vessels are being cut
from plans for 2013 to 2017, which had called for buying during
that period at least 15 of the 55 ships planned.  The plan calls for retiring some existing ships, including
seven cruisers that aren’t capable of defending against
ballistic missiles.  Amphibious Vessel Delay  The largest shipbuilding reduction would eliminate, through
2017 eight of nine planned Austal Joint High Speed Vessels
designed to carry Army personnel. There was no indication the
vessels would be purchased later.  The budget proposal delays by one year the start of
construction for the LHA-8 large-deck amphibious vessel to be
built by Huntington Ingalls.  The budget doesn’t slow the Navy’s plan to buy additional
Arleigh Burke-class DDG-51 destroyers from General Dynamics and
Huntington.  F-35 Plans  Panetta said the Pentagon was making “substantial
reductions to programs that are experiencing schedule, cost or
performance issues.”  They include Lockheed Martin’s Joint Strike Fighter, the
F-35,  and the Army Ground Combat Vehicle that’s in competition
between General Dynamics and a team of  BAE Systems Plc (BA/)  and
Northrop Grumman.  The Pentagon remains committed to the F-35 “but in this
budget we have slowed procurement to complete more testing and
allow for developmental changes before buying significant
quantities,” he said.  The Defense Department will propose spending about $9.2
billion to buy 29 F-35 jets in its fiscal 2013 budget, 13 fewer
than previously planned.  Beyond the next budget year, the Pentagon’s previous plan
to purchase 62 F-35s in fiscal 2014 is being reduced to 29,
according to budget data. The request for 2015 is dropping to 44
from 81, and the planned purchase for 2016 will decline to 66
from 108.  The Pentagon plans to postpone 179 aircraft beyond 2017,
according to officials who spoke on condition of anonymity
before today’s announcement.  Global Hawk Curtailed  The Pentagon is canceling the final 10 of one version of
Northrop Grumman’s Global Hawk drones it was to buy, stopping at
21 of the Block 30 model because of rising costs. Dollars will
be shifted instead into maintaining U-2 manned aircraft made by
Lockheed Martin.  Experience with the Block 30 version “will help other
Global Hawk programs,” including the advanced Block 40 and
maritime and NATO versions, according to the budget document.  The Pentagon reversed a decision to cancel the $6.8 billion
Joint Air-to-Ground Missile, pitting Lockheed against Raytheon,
“significantly reducing” the program instead, and continuing
to buy Hellfire missiles from several contractors including
Lockheed.  The Pentagon also is delaying by as much as five years an
Army helicopter modernization program and terminating a multi-
billion dollar program to upgrade its fleet of Humvee all-
terrain vehicles.  Northrop Grumman’s Defense Weather Satellite System program
also was canceled.  The fiscal 2013 budget proposal is 1 percent less,
unadjusted for inflation, than this year’s $531 billion plan.
The numbers include spending on military construction.  The  defense number, not including combat, grows to $534
billion in fiscal 2014, $546 billion in fiscal 2015, $556
billion in fiscal 2016 and $567 billion in 2017.  Adjusted for inflation, the Pentagon projects a 1.6 percent
reduction in real spending power between 2013 and 2017.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Tony Capaccio in Washington at 
 acapaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  