-- Peres, Fayyad Differ on Peace Process as Latest Talks Sputter
-- B y   C a l e v   B e n - D a v i d
-- 2012-01-26T16:49:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/peres-fayyad-differ-on-peace-process-as-latest-talks-sputter.html
Israeli President  Shimon Peres  and
Palestinian Prime Minister Salam Fayyad offered contrasting
views of the peace process today, as the latest round of
preliminary talks between the sides seemed to hit a dead end.  “In the negotiations the gap was seriously narrowed, and
neither the Palestinians nor the Israeli have any choice but to
make peace,” Peres said at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
Switzerland.  A more downbeat Fayyad said at the forum that, in his
assessment, the peace process “has never been this lacking in
focus,” and the “conditions are actually not right, or ripe,
for the resumption of the political process.”  Peace negotiations between the Palestinians and Israel
broke down in September 2010, after Prime Minister  Benjamin Netanyahu  declined to renew a 10-month freeze on building in
West Bank settlements. Palestinians say that a complete halt to
settlement construction must be a precondition for full-fledged
negotiations to resume.  Israeli and Palestinian negotiators have met five times
this month in Amman, Jordan in an effort to set terms that would
allow for the renewal of formal peace talks. Those meetings
failed to produce a breakthrough and a Palestinian official said
today there would be no more meetings unless Israel agrees to a
settlement freeze.  The Middle East Quartet, comprised of the U.S., the  United
Nations , the European Union and Russia, had set today as the
deadline for resolving preliminary conditions ahead of the
resumption of official negotiations.  ‘Arbitrary’ Deadlines  Peres called the Quartet’s Jan. 26 deadline “arbitrary,”
and said setting such targets was a mistake because “under
pressure, we will commit mistakes.” He added that the
international community had to do more to restrain outside
regional parties from creating conditions that hinder the  peace
process , in particular Iran.  Fayyad, an economist who previously worked for the
 International Monetary Fund , said the intentional community was
needed as a mediator in the process, and should also be
providing the  Palestinian Authority  with more resources in its
state-building efforts.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Calev Ben-David in Jerusalem at 
 cbendavid@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  