-- Perry’s Popularity Drops in Texas After His Failed Bid for U.S. Presidency
-- B y   D a v i d   M i l d e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-26T21:19:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/perry-s-popularity-drops-in-texas-after-his-failed-bid-for-u-s-presidency.html
Governor  Rick Perry ’s aborted
presidential bid led more Texans to view him unfavorably after
his campaign performance damaged the state’s reputation
nationally, pollster Micheline Blum said.  Perry’s approval rating sank to 42 percent among registered
voters from 51 percent a year earlier, Blum said, citing a Jan.
21-24 poll of 669 voters by her company, New York-based Blum &
Weprin Associates. Newspapers such as the Dallas Morning News
paid for the survey. Blum has polled in Texas for more than 20
years. The results had a margin of error of plus or minus 3.8
percentage points.  “A lot of Texans thought he gave the state a black eye
with his campaign,” she said today by telephone. “2014 is a
long way away, but a majority now doesn’t want him to run for
re-election.”  A presidential poll taken a week earlier by the Public
Policy Institute in Raleigh,  North Carolina , showed Perry’s
support among likely Republican primary voters in Texas falling
to 18 percent from 49 percent in September. The institute
surveyed 559 Republicans in the state Jan. 12-15 and the results
had a margin of error of plus or minus 4.2 percentage points.  “Governor Perry leads based on his conservative philosophy
and what is best for Texas jobs and quality of life, not poll
numbers,”  Ray Sullivan , a spokesman, said by e-mail. Perry quit
the Republican presidential primary campaign Jan. 19.  The governor may seek re-election in two years in the
second-biggest U.S. state by population or run for president
again in 2016, if President  Barack Obama  wins a second term,
Sullivan said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Mildenberg in Austin,  Texas  at 
 dmildenberg@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Tannenbaum at 
 mtannen@bloomberg.net  