-- Ackman’s Pershing Square Gives $25 Million to Signature Theatre
-- B y   P h i l i p   B o r o f f
-- 2012-01-26T19:00:44Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/pershing-square-s-25-million-gift-puts-hedge-fund-on-signature-marquee.html
Hedge fund manager  William Ackman 
donated $25 million to  New York ’s nonprofit  Signature Theatre ,
which said it will rename its new, Frank Gehry-designed off-
Broadway complex after his foundation.  The “Pershing Square Signature Center” is scheduled to
open on Tuesday with three theaters, two rehearsal studios and
public space on W. 42nd Street, between Ninth and Tenth Avenues.
Ackman, 45, is chief executive and founder of Pershing Square
Capital Management LP.  Signature Artistic Director James Houghton said in an
interview that the money will help it sell $25 tickets to
initial runs of its productions for a decade. The Signature will
keep prices “accessible” for at least another decade after
that, he said, leaving the door open for a price increase.  “It depends how inflation and the world operate,”
Houghton, 53, said, adding that the ticket prices will remain
equivalent to a movie, popcorn and a soda.  Signature specializes in presenting multiple works by a
playwright. Houghton and Edward Norton, the actor and co-
chairman of Signature’s capital campaign, first met with Ackman
in mid-2011.  “The two of us talked about what we’re doing,” Houghton
said. “He was energized and interested.”  The gift is the  Pershing Square  Foundation’s largest to an
arts nonprofit and the largest the Signature received from an
individual or foundation, according to Houghton and a joint
press release.  “Signature has made a remarkable contribution to the
cultural life of New York,” Ackman said in a statement. He
started the foundation in 2006 with his wife, Karen.  “We are especially pleased to support their groundbreaking
program to provide access to great theater, which we see as an
investment in New York and the theater community that will pay
dividends for generations to come,” the statement said. A
spokesman said he wasn’t immediately available.  Ackman is currently involved in a proxy battle with
 Canadian Pacific Railway Ltd. (CP) , where Pershing Square is the
largest shareholder. Pershing also holds a major stake in  J.C.
Penney. (JCP)   Part of the Ackman donation goes toward a $70 million
capital campaign. Houghton said Signature has raised about $58
million so far.  Although the complex itself and some of its spaces are
accounted for, “we still have plenty of things people can
name,” Houghton said.  To contact the writer of this column:
Philip Boroff in New York at 
 pboroff@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 