-- Polyus, Polymetal Owners Said to Weigh Russian Gold Merger
-- B y   Y u l i y a   F e d o r i n o v a   a n d   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2012-01-26T13:00:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/polyus-said-to-weigh-polymetal-merger-to-make-ninth-biggest-gold-producer.html
The billionaire owners of Polyus
Gold International Ltd. and  Polymetal International Plc (POLY)  are
considering merging the Russian gold miners as Polyus seeks a
primary listing in  London , two people with knowledge of the
matter said.  Any deal may be about $6.9 billion, based on the current
value of Polymetal on the London Stock Exchange. Polyus has a
market value of about $10 billion. The talks have been between
the owners of the companies and not management, the people said,
declining to be identified until a decision on whether to pursue
the negotiations on combination is made.  Polymetal “confirms that it is not engaged in any
discussions with Polyus” on a merger, it said in a statement.  A tie-up with FTSE 100-member Polymetal would allow Jersey-
based Polyus, 78 percent-controlled by billionaires  Mikhail Prokhorov  and  Suleiman Kerimov , to gain the same listing, which
has been delayed by a Russian commission headed by Prime
Minister  Vladimir Putin . Prokhorov and Putin are both running
for the presidency in March elections.  Polyus advanced as much as 11 percent in London trading to
$3.55, the highest in four months. Polymetal jumped 10 percent
to 1,176 pence, the highest since its October market debut.  ‘Huge Resources’  Anton Arens, a Polyus spokesman, declined to comment, as
did Andrey Belyak, a spokesman for Prokhorov’s Onexim Group, and
Anton Averin, Kerimov’s Nafta Moskva spokesman.  “A combination could allow Polyus not only to gain a
London primary listing, but also access to Polymetal’s
experience in building new mines,” Dmitry Kolomytsyn, a Morgan
Stanley analyst, said by phone from Moscow. Polymetal would
benefit from access to Polyus’s “huge resources,” he said.  A merger may also establish a combined company ranking
ninth among the world’s biggest gold producers, overtaking
Phoenix-based Freeport-McMoRan Coper & Gold Inc., according to
Bloomberg News calculations from data provided by London-based
researcher GFMS Ltd.  Polymetal, whose owners include Czech billionaire  Petr Kellner  and  Russia ’s  Alexander Nesis , switched its domicile from
Russia to  Jersey  last year and secured a primary listing in
October. The company was included in the FTSE 100 index last
month. Nesis’s also press office declined to comment.  International Merger  Polyus has sought an international merger that would make
it one of the largest-ranking gold producers since 2010. Talks
on such a transaction were suspended until the redomiciling
process is completed, management said in October.  Polymetal may be less interested in a deal than Polyus, as
it is already in the FTSE 100 index, said Dmitry Smolin, an
analyst at Uralsib Capital. “An international merger would be
more appropriate for Polyus.”  Polyus picked Bank of America Merrill Lynch,  JPMorgan Chase
& Co. (JPM) , VTB Capital and  Renaissance Capital  to arrange a London
share sale to boost its free-float so that it can qualify for
inclusion in the benchmark index, people with the knowledge of
the matter said earlier this week. An agreement to combine with
Polymetal may remove the need for that transaction.  Polyus traded up 1.6 percent at $3.25 at 4:05 p.m.
Polymetal traded up 3.8 percent at 1,110 pence.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net ;
Yuliya Fedorinova in Moscow at 
 yfedorinova@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Viljoen at 
 jviljoen@bloomberg.net  