-- Power 100: Five Athletes to Watch in 2012
-- B y   B r i a n   F i n k e l
-- 2012-01-26T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/power-100-five-athletes-to-watch-in-2012.html
Tim Tebow : He’s pushing $10 million in
annual endorsement revenue, has more than 1 million Twitter
followers, and recently was named America’s favorite pro athlete
in an ESPN poll. It might be hard to fathom, but despite being
our eighth-ranked athlete off the field, Tim Tebow’s on-field
numbers were so abysmal in 2011 that they single-handedly
prevented him from making this year’s list. After three straight
years of naming Tebow to my Five Athletes to Watch list, his
case in 2012 is simple. If he improves as a pro quarterback --
even incrementally -- you’ll see him in next year’s  Power 100 .
If he stays the same or regresses, he won’t make the  Power 100 ,
and he certainly won’t be one of my athletes to watch. “How much
Tebowmania will translate into his power rankings next season is
yet to be seen, but media hype and strong beliefs don’t always
translate into long-term big business,” says Gerry Philpott,
chief executive of E-Poll Market Research.  Yu Darvish: The  Texas Rangers  spent an enormous $111 million
to sign the Japanese phenom Yu Darvish. The 25-year-old pitcher
already has endorsement contracts with Nike, Seiko, and
Hisamitsu Pharmaceutical, and he could land more sponsorship
deals from U.S. companies interested in entering the Japanese
market. If Darvish this year can do in MLB what he did last year
in Japan (18-6 win-loss record, 1.44 ERA, and 276 strikeouts),
he’ll have a high enough on-field score to crack the Power 100.
Darvish is an early favorite to win the Rookie of the Year
Award, and if he leads the Rangers to their third straight World
Series -- thus boosting his awareness and popularity -- the
sky’s the limit for baseball’s biggest import.  Ryan Lochte : He’s been swimming in Michael Phelps’s wake for
years, but Ryan Lochte is poised for a marketing breakout in
2012, thanks to the  London  Summer Olympics. Lochte was one of
the hottest names at the end of 2011 as sponsors finalized their
Olympic brand ambassador lists. His impressive sponsorship
portfolio includes Gatorade, Speedo, Gillette, and  Ralph Lauren .
Having won five gold medals at the 2011 world championships,
Lochte took home all major Swimmer of the Year awards. A strong
showing in London will result in more gold medals and a spot in
next year’s Power 100.  Andrew Luck : There’s always extra pressure for a sports
prospect designated as a “can’t miss.” With the added hype,
however, comes marketing opportunities other athletes can only
dream of. Such is the scenario for Andrew Luck, the Stanford
quarterback who is almost certain to be the No. 1 pick by the
 Indianapolis Colts  in April’s NFL Draft. The biggest question
about Luck isn’t whether he’ll succeed but whether he’ll even
play. The Colts first have to decide what to do with  Peyton Manning  as he attempts a comeback from career-threatening neck
surgery. If the Colts hand their QB reins to Luck, he can only
hope to emulate the Packers’  Aaron Rodgers , who also took over
for a legendary quarterback ( Brett Favre ) and worked his way up
to No. 2 in the Power 100 ... albeit not in his rookie season.  Li Na : One of the biggest endorsement beneficiaries in 2011
was tennis sensation Li Na. Because of Li’s immense popularity
in her native  China , the 2011 French Open winner last year
signed more than $40 million worth of sponsorship deals with
Haagen-Dazs, Mercedes-Benz, and Rolex. Although she’s on pace to
become the highest-earning woman in pro sports as early as this
year, Li still has a way to go to increase her awareness in the
U.S. A disappointing first-round exit at the U.S. Open prevented
her from more exposure to American sports fans. Nevertheless, Li
finished just outside the cusp of this year’s Power 100.  (Click  here  to see the complete 2012 Power 100.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Brian Finkel at  bhfinkel@gmail.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Beucke at   dbeucke@bloomberg.net  