-- Power 100: Methodology
-- B y   D a v i d   N e w m a n
-- 2012-01-26T02:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/power-100-methodology.html
CSE, an integrated sports and
marketing firm in Atlanta, and Horrow Sports Ventures developed
the 2012 edition of the  Power 100 ranking  of the most powerful
athletes in professional sports. Using the same methodology for
the third consecutive year,  the ranking  comprises only
professional athletes playing in the  United States . Coaches,
executives, owners, agents, and even retired athletes were not
considered. Only regular season statistics were used.  An athlete’s ranking is comprised of on-field attributes (50
percent) and off-field attributes (50 percent) to develop an
overall ranking.  ON-FIELD ATTRIBUTES: The on-field attributes measure an
athlete’s ranking within his or her sport, relative to all other
participants. Each athlete is compared to peer group averages,
by sport, in a number of statistical categories. Next, a
multiplier is used to adjust athletes’ rankings, based on the
popularity and viewing audience of that sport. All data are
analyzed over a two-year basis (weighted 80 percent for the most
recent season and 20 percent for the season that preceded it)
except for the NBA. Due to the lockout, only data from the 2010-
11 season were used for the NBA.  The individual statistical categories for each sport are:  MLB - Batting Average, Runs, Hits, Home Runs, Stolen Bases (for
batters); Wins, Saves, Strikeouts, and Earned Run Average (for
pitchers)  MLS - Goals and Assists (on a per-game basis)  NASCAR - Wins, Top 5 Finishes, Top 10 Finishes, Winnings, and
Poles  NBA/WNBA - Points, Blocks, Assists, Steals, and Rebounds (all on
a per-game basis)  NFL - Yards, Touchdowns, and Quarterback Rating (by position,
for offensive players); Tackles, Sacks, Interceptions, and
Forced Fumbles (for defensive players)  NHL - Goals, Assists, and Plus/Minus (for non-goalkeepers); Save
Percentage, Wins, Goals Allowed Average, and Shutouts (for
goalkeepers)  BOXING, GOLF, INDY CAR, FORMULA ONE, MMA, TENNIS, and OLYMPIC
SPORTS - Based on World Rankings (or sport rankings)  OFF-FIELD ATTRIBUTES: The off-field attributes comprise an
athlete’s expected endorsement potential (75 percent),
endorsement earnings (15 percent), and social-media presence (10
percent). The endorsement potential comes from Nielsen/E-Poll’s
N-Score, which evaluates an athlete’s appeal, name awareness,
and marketing potential on a national and local basis.
Endorsement data is estimated by industry experts, based on
comparable athletes. Social-media presence is measured based on
official Facebook fans and Twitter followers as of Dec. 15,
2011.  Click  here  to see the world’s most powerful athletes in the
2012 Power 100.  -- Editor: Daniel Beucke  To contact the writer on this story:
David Newman at  dnewman@groupcse.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Beucke at   dbeucke@bloomberg.net  