-- QE3 May Be Preferred Over Fed’s QE2 for Asia Economies Facing Export Slump
-- B y   S h a m i m   A d a m   a n d   K a r l   L e s t e r   M .   Y a p
-- 2012-01-27T06:06:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/qe3-may-be-preferred-over-fed-s-qe2-for-asia-economies-facing-export-slump.html
U.S. monetary stimulus, blamed in
2010 for spurring speculative capital flows to  emerging markets ,
may find less opposition this time round in Asia as the region’s
focus shifts to supporting economic growth.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  laid the groundwork for a
third round of quantitative easing through asset purchases, a
so-called QE3, saying two days ago the Fed is prepared for
further “accommodation.” Officials from China to South Korea
were among those who criticized QE2, when they were raising
 interest rates  in part to stem property and stock price surges.  This time, exports are slowing and Asian currencies have
fallen, with the  International Monetary Fund  predicting growth
in developing Asia at 7.3 percent this year, compared with 9.5
percent in 2010. The difference means there may be less need for
measures to limit capital inflows, after nations from Thailand
to Indonesia took such steps last time.  “We’ve gone from a situation where Asian economies were
doing well and we were dealing with too much money to one where
growth is slowing and inflows are becoming more balanced,” said
Sanjay Mathur, Singapore-based head of research and strategy for
non-Japan  Asia  at Royal Bank of Scotland Group Plc. “The voices
against quantitative easing from Asia won’t be so loud and it
won’t draw as much resistance this time around.”  Currency Slump  Europe ’s debt crisis, and the concern that  Greece  will
enter a disorderly default, tempered investors’ appetite for
emerging-market assets in 2011. During the week of Sept. 19,
Asian currencies tumbled the most since the region’s financial
crisis in 1998, prompting nations to deploy some of their
currency reserves in defense.  The  Indian rupee  has declined about 11 percent in the past
six months, followed by a 6.5 percent drop in the South Korean
won and a 5.5 percent depreciation in the Indonesian rupiah. The
MSCI Asia Pacific Index of stocks slumped about 17 percent last
year, halting a two-year rally in equities.  A slowdown in Asia may be spreading with economists
predicting  Taiwan  will report weaker  growth  when it releases
gross domestic product figures on Jan. 31. Taiwan’s GDP
increased 2.8 percent in the fourth quarter, the slowest pace in
more than two years, according to the median estimate in a
Bloomberg News survey.  Korea Slowdown  South Korea ’s economy grew the least in two years last
quarter as exports sank 1.5 percent from the previous three-
month period, the central bank said yesterday.  The  Philippines  may say its economy expanded 3.8 percent in
the fourth quarter from a year earlier after growing 3.2 percent
in the previous three months, another survey showed ahead of
figures due Jan. 30. The Philippine economy probably grew 3.7
percent in 2011, less than half the 7.3 percent pace reported in
2010, according to a separate survey.  “If there is a QE3 in the near term, we think it would be
less problematic for Asian policy makers this time around,”
said Paul Gruenwald, chief Asia economist at Australia & New
Zealand Banking Group Ltd. in  Singapore . “Inflation pressures
are falling and the policy bias is clearly to cut rates. So a
bit of additional stimulus from the Fed would be helpful.”  Malaysia ’s central bank may give clues about its readiness
to lower  borrowing costs  next week, when it’s likely to keep its
benchmark rate unchanged for a fourth straight meeting,
according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  Balancing Risks  “The current rates continue to be accommodative,” Bank
Negara Malaysia Governor Zeti Akhtar Aziz told reporters today.
“We will make an assessment of the degree of accommodation that
is important for our economy to sustain growth and employment.
We have to balance the risk to growth with the risk to
inflation.”  The Fed bought $1.7 trillion worth of Treasury and mortgage
debt between December 2008 and March 2010. As the Fed announced
its next round of purchases in November 2010,  China ’s Vice
Foreign Minister Cui Tiankai said the U.S. “owes us some
explanation on their decision.” Chinese central bank adviser
Xia Bin called it “uncontrolled” money printing and then-
Japanese Prime Minister  Naoto Kan  cited the U.S. pursuing a
“weak-dollar policy.”  Asia’s foreign reserves grew “significantly faster than
any time in history” between April 2009 and September 2010 as
the region attracted about $2 billion of capital inflows daily,
according to DBS Group Holdings. About $600 billion in foreign
capital flowed into Asia in the year through June 2010,
Singapore’s central bank said.  Monitoring Flows  Any signs of resurgent capital inflows may still spark
criticism from Asian officials, said  Tim Condon , chief Asia
economist at ING Financial Markets.  “If there were to be QE, and by that I mean a significant
easing of U.S. monetary policy, there would be a significant
depreciation of the  U.S. dollar  and Asian currencies would be on
the other side of that trade,” Singapore-based Condon said.
“Central banks may initially be less hostile but they will be
receiving the flows and in some cases they would react the same
way” as they did during QE2, he said.  The South Korean won and Malaysian ringgit may be among the
biggest beneficiaries of another round of Fed quantitative
easing, Mathur of RBS said. He also recommends the dollar debt
of the Philippines and  Indonesia .  Shift in Tone  So far, the tone from policy makers has been different.  “The Fed move affirms some policy certainty from that part
of the world, which is important for anchoring global investor
action and which could translate to providing emerging market
economies, including the Philippines some policy breather to
concentrate on improving domestic demand,” Philippine Governor
Amando Tetangco said yesterday. “To the extent that the Fed
action sustains the positive growth outlook in the U.S., this
should also be positive for our own trade prospects.”  By contrast, Philippine officials had said that QE2 would
add to global liquidity and that they were prepared to address
capital inflows through a “menu” of measures.  Bank of  Thailand  Governor Prasarn Trairatvorakul said
yesterday the Fed’s decision to keep low rates until 2014 is
“necessary to facilitate the economic recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net ;
Karl Lester M. Yap in Manila at 
 kyap5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  