-- Adulterated Drugs Found in U.S. Probe of Ranbaxy Manufacturing Violations
-- B y   J a s o n   G a l e   a n d   T o m   S c h o e n b e r g
-- 2012-01-26T03:13:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/ranbaxy-reaches-agreement-with-u-s-over-alleged-violations-at-drug-plants.html
Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. (RBXY)  made
“adulterated, potentially unsafe” medicines that were illegal
to sell, U.S. prosecutors said in a proposed settlement with the
Indian drugmaker.  Among alleged violations, Ranbaxy failed to adequately
separate the production of penicillin and non-penicillin drugs
and failed to take adequate steps to prevent contamination of
sterile medicines, the U.S.  Justice Department  said in a 58-page
document filed in federal court in Maryland yesterday.  The settlement stipulates proposed changes Ranbaxy, based
on the outskirts of  New Delhi , must make to settle the three-
year-old dispute. The drugmaker set aside $500 million to
resolve all potential civil and criminal liability related to
the U.S. investigation, it said last month. The company didn’t
admit or deny the accusations detailed in the settlement, which
requires approval by a federal judge.  “This action against Ranbaxy is groundbreaking in its
international reach -- it requires the company to make
fundamental changes to its plants in both the United States and
India,”  Tony West , assistant attorney general for the Justice
Department’s Civil Division, said in an e-mailed statement.  “Our commitment to ensuring that the drugs the American
people rely on are safe, effective and manufactured according to
the FDA’s standards extends beyond our borders,” West said.  The department in collaboration with the  Food and Drug
Administration  uncovered numerous problems with Ranbaxy’s drug
manufacturing and testing in India and at facilities owned by
its U.S. subsidiary, according to the statement.  Import Ban  The defects led the FDA to block more than 30 generic drugs
made at the Indian drugmaker’s Paonta Sahib and Dewas plants,
the FDA said in September 2008, three months after Tokyo-based
 Daiichi Sankyo Co. (4568)  agreed to buy a controlling stake in Ranbaxy
for $4.6 billion.  Daiichi Sankyo  rose  0.6 percent to 1,461 yen on the Tokyo
Stock Exchange at 11:07 a.m. local time, while the benchmark
Topix index declined 0.1 percent. The shares have lost 17
percent of their value of the past 12 months.  Ranbaxy consented to the proposed decree on Dec. 20 in an
agreement signed by company officials including co-defendants
Dale Adkisson, head of global quality; Managing Director Arun Sawhney; and Venkatachalam Krishnan, the company’s regional
director for the Americas.  Legacy Issue  “Today’s announcement is the next step in the process of
finalizing our agreement with the FDA to resolve this legacy
issue,” Sawhney said in an e-mailed  statement  today. “We are
pleased with the progress we have made in upgrading and
enhancing the quality of our business and manufacturing
processes.”  As part of the agreement, Ranbaxy has agreed to relinquish
any 180-day marketing exclusivity that it might have for three
pending generic drug applications and forfeit exclusivity for
“several additional generic drug applications” if it doesn’t
comply with settlement terms, according to a statement from the
FDA. The names of the three drugs were filed under seal. Chuck Caprariello, a spokesman for Ranbaxy in the U.S., declined to
specify the applications affected.  “Our response is limited to our press release,” Raghu Kochar, a Ranbaxy spokesman in  India , said in an e-mail.  Daiichi Sankyo declined to comment on the proposed
settlement until the court approves the filing, spokesman Masaya Tamae said.  Inadequate Testing  Problems uncovered through the investigation by the Justice
Department and FDA also include failure to keep written records
showing that drugs had been manufactured properly; failure to
investigate evidence indicating that drugs didn’t meet their
specifications; and inadequate testing of drugs to ensure that
they kept their strength and effectiveness until their
expiration date.  The government also found that Ranbaxy submitted false data
in drug applications to the FDA, including the backdating of
tests and the submitting of test data for which no test samples
existed, according to the Justice Department’s statement.  “All of these actions constituted violations of the
federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, making many of Ranbaxy’s
drugs adulterated, potentially unsafe and illegal to sell in the
 United States ,” it said.  The decree requires that Ranbaxy comply with certain
standards before FDA will resume reviewing drug applications
containing data or other information from the Paonta Sahib,
Batamandi, and Dewas facilities, the FDA said.  ‘Unprecedented’ Decree  The proposed settlement “is unprecedented in its scope,”
the Justice Department said in the statement.  It includes requirements that Ranbaxy remove false data
contained in past drug applications; hire an outside expert to
conduct a thorough internal review at the affected facilities
and to audit applications containing data from those facilities;
withdraw any applications found to contain false data; set up a
separate office of data reliability within Ranbaxy; and hire an
outside auditor to audit the affected facilities in the future.  Once the decree is approved by the court, it becomes a
court order with which Ranbaxy must comply or face contempt
proceedings.  The case is U.S. v. Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd., 12-00250,
U.S. District Court, District of  Maryland  (Baltimore).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Gale in Singapore at 
 j.gale@bloomberg.net ;
Tom Schoenberg in Washington at 
 tschoenberg@bloomberg.net  