-- Treasuries Extend Biggest Gain in Two Weeks as Gross Sees QE5
-- B y   K e i t h   J e n k i n s   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-26T12:37:36Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/treasuries-rise-second-day-on-fed-rate-pledge-5-year-yield-falls-to-0-79-.html
Treasuries rose, extending
yesterday’s rally that pushed 10-year note yields down the most
in two weeks, as the  Federal Reserve  said it is considering
increasing its bond purchases.  Five-year yields fell to within one basis point of a record
low after $35 billion of the securities were sold yesterday. The
Treasury Department will sell $29 billion of seven-year
securities today, following a $35 billion two-year sale on Jan.
24. A third, fourth and fifth round of easing “lie ahead,”
 Bill Gross , who runs the world’s biggest bond fund at Pacific
Investment Management Co., wrote in a Twitter post.  “The statements out of the Fed were more dovish than
investors were expecting,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “This, together with a
relatively downbeat assessment of the economic outlook, now
leads to a reassessment in the  bond market .”  The 10-year  rate  slid four basis points, or 0.04 percentage
point, to 1.95 percent at 7:33 a.m. New York time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It fell seven basis points
yesterday, the most since Jan. 11. The 2 percent securities
maturing in November 2021 climbed 12/32, or $3.75 per $1,000
face amount, to 100 13/32.  The yield on January 2017 notes fell four basis points to
0.78 percent. Benchmark five-year rates dropped to  record low 
0.76 percent yesterday, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
Seven-year notes yielded 1.37 percent in pre-auction trading,
versus 1.43 percent at the previous sale of the securities on
Dec. 21. The record low auction yield was 1.415 percent in
November.  Bond Buying ‘Option’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the central
bank is considering additional bond purchases to boost growth
after extending its pledge to keep interest rates low through at
least late 2014. The Fed has already purchased $2.3 trillion of
debt in two rounds of quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2.  U.S. policy makers are “prepared to provide further
monetary accommodation” and bond buying is “an option that’s
certainly on the table,” Bernanke said after officials
completed a two-day meeting yesterday.  “They feel they have to do more, to embark on QE3, which I
have no doubt will come,” said Hans Goetti, the Singapore-based
chief investment officer for Asia at Finaport Investment
Intelligence, which oversees the equivalent of $1.52 billion.  ‘Financial Repression’  The U.S. will suffer “financial repression” as the Fed
implements additional quantitative easing, Gross wrote in the
Twitter post yesterday. He addressed the idea of financial
repression in his monthly investment  outlook  on Jan. 4, writing
that it “depends on negative real yields.”  Ten-year notes offer a so-called real yield of minus 1.05
percent after accounting for annualized consumer-price gains of
3 percent.  The Fed is replacing $400 billion of shorter-maturity
Treasuries in its holdings with longer-term debt to “put
downward pressure on longer-term  interest rates ,” according to
the central bank’s statement announcing the strategy in
September.  It plans to buy as much as $2.75 billion of securities due
from February 2036 to November 2041 today as part of the
program, according to the Fed Bank of New York  website .  The  difference  between five- and 10-year yields widened to
as much as 1.21 percentage points today, the most since Oct. 28,
before settling at 1.17 percentage points.  Five-Year Benefit  Shorter-term Treasuries tend to track what the central bank
does with its  target  for overnight lending, while longer
maturities are more influenced by the inflation outlook.  “By keeping rates low for a longer period, beyond two
years, the five-year will benefit most,” said Bin Gao, head of
rate research for  Asia  and the Pacific at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  Hong Kong . “It increases the inflation risk,
so 10-years will not rally that much.” The company is one of
the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.13
percentage points, in line with the 10-year average.  Policy makers yesterday set a long-term goal of 2 percent
inflation, and forecast that price increases would fall short of
that target this year and next.  Inflation-Linked Debt  Fidelity Investments , the Boston-based fund company that
oversees $1.52 trillion, is favoring inflation-linked bonds.  “I have preferred Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
to regular Treasuries recently,” Bill Irving, the manager of
the $5.48 billion  Fidelity Government Income Fund (FGOVX) , wrote in a
report on the company’s  website  yesterday. “Given how
accommodative the Fed has been, and given the possibility that
the economy’s strength could surprise to the upside, I think the
inflation protection TIPS can offer is worth considering.”  The  fund  returned 7.5 percent in the past year, beating 55
percent of its competitors, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. TIPS have handed investors a 15 percent gain over 12
months, versus 9.1 percent for conventional Treasuries,
according to Bank of America Merrill Lynch data.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
 Keith Jenkins  in London at 
 kjenkins3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Daniel Tilles at 
 dtilles@bloomberg.net  