-- Treasury Five-Year Yield Reaches Record Low on Fed QE Optimism
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r   a n d   W e s   G o o d m a n
-- 2012-01-26T17:40:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/treasuries-extend-biggest-gain-in-two-weeks-amid-expected-fed-purchases.html
Treasuries rose, with the five-year
note yield touching a record low for a second day, as the
 Federal Reserve  said it’s considering increasing its bond
purchases.  U.S. government-debt rose as orders for U.S. durable goods
rose more than forecast in December and claims for jobless
benefits increased last week. Five-year  yields  touched 0.7538
percent after Fed officials yesterday unexpectedly said their
benchmark  interest rate  will stay low until at least late 2014.
The U.S. will sell $29 billion of seven-year securities today.  “The numbers certainly were good -- there’s strength in
the underlying data,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt
economist in New York at Jefferies Group Inc., one of 21 primary
dealers that trade Treasuries with the Fed. “The data has less
importance in the market because the Fed has made an effort to
say that, even if things improve, they still expect to remain
accommodative for a considerable period of time.”  The 10-year  rate  slid six basis points, or 0.06 percentage
point, to 1.94 percent at 12:29 p.m.  New York  time, according to
Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. It fell seven basis points
yesterday, the most since Jan. 11. The 2 percent securities
maturing in November 2021 climbed 1/2, or $5 per $1,000 face
amount, to 100 18/32.  Benchmark five-year yields fell five basis points to  0.76 
percent after falling 10 basis points yesterday following a
Treasury auction of $35 billion of the securities, according to
data compiled by Bloomberg. Investors who snapped up the five-
year notes saw the assets soar as much as $238 million after the
Fed interest-rate pledge.  Pre-Auction Trading  The seven-year notes being sold today yielded 1.36 percent
today in pre-auction trading, versus 1.43 percent at the
previous sale of the securities on Dec. 21. The record low yield
was 1.415 percent in November. Today’s note auction is the third
and final of the week, including a $35 billion two-year sale on
Jan. 24.  The  U.S. Senate  voted today to permit a $1.2 trillion
increase increase in the nation’s debt limit designed to be
large enough to accommodate borrowing through the November
election.  Demand for aircraft, autos and business equipment led
durable goods higher, with bookings for goods meant to last at
least three years climbing 3 percent after a revised 4.3 percent
gain the prior month that was more than previously estimated,
data from the Commerce Department showed today. Economists
projected a 2 percent increase, according to the median forecast
in a Bloomberg News survey.  Applications for unemployment insurance payments climbed by
21,000 to 377,000 in the week ended Jan. 21, up from an almost
four-year low in the prior period, Labor Department figures
showed today in  Washington . The median forecast of 47 economists
in a Bloomberg News survey projected 370,000.  Home Sales  Sales of new  U.S. homes  unexpectedly declined in December
for the first time in four months, capping the slowest year on
record for builders. Purchases of single-family properties
decreased 2.2 percent to a 307,000 annual pace, figures from the
Commerce Department showed today in Washington. The median
forecast in a Bloomberg News survey of economists called for a
rate of 321,000 home sales. Last year marked the worst year for
the industry in records going back to 1963.  Treasury market  volume  rose yesterday to the highest since
Nov. 1 after policy makers said the Fed will remain
accommodative. About $381 billion of Treasuries changed hands
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker, above
the one-year average of $282 billion.  ‘On the Table’  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday the central
bank is considering additional bond purchases to boost growth
after extending its pledge to keep interest rates low through at
least late 2014. The Fed has already purchased $2.3 trillion of
debt in two rounds of quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2.  U.S. policy makers are “prepared to provide further
monetary accommodation” and bond buying is “an option that’s
certainly on the table,” Bernanke said after officials
completed a two-day meeting yesterday.  “The statements out of the Fed were more dovish than
investors were expecting,” said  Kornelius Purps , a fixed-income
strategist at UniCredit SpA in Munich. “This, together with a
relatively downbeat assessment of the economic outlook, now
leads to a reassessment in the  bond market .”  Yields on  Fannie Mae ’s  current coupon  30-year fixed-rate
mortgage bond declined to 2.7 percent today, the lowest ever, as
investors bet the Fed will continue easing. The yield declined
to 78 basis points more than 10-year  U.S. government debt , near
the tightest so-called spread since February.  ‘Embark on QE3’  “They feel they have to do more, to embark on QE3, which I
have no doubt will come,” said Hans Goetti, the Singapore-based
chief investment officer for  Asia  at Finaport Investment
Intelligence, which oversees the equivalent of $1.52 billion.  The Fed bought $2.522 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to November 2041 today as part of its program to
replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs
further and counter rising risks of a recession.  The  difference  between five- and 10-year yields widened to
as much as 1.21 percentage points today, the most since Oct. 28,
before settling at 1.17 percentage points.  Shorter-term Treasuries tend to track what the central bank
does with its  target  for overnight lending, while longer
maturities are more influenced by the inflation outlook.  “By keeping rates low for a longer period, beyond two
years, the five-year will benefit most,” said Bin Gao, head of
rate research in  Hong Kong  for Asia and the Pacific at Bank of
America Merrill Lynch, a primary dealer. “It increases the
inflation risk, so 10-years will not rally that much.”  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.13
percentage points, in line with the 10-year average.  Policy makers yesterday set a long-term goal of 2 percent
inflation, and forecast that price increases would fall short of
that target this year and next.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net ;
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  