-- U.S. Sells Seven-Year Notes at Record Low Yield Amid Federal Reserve Rally
-- B y   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2012-01-26T22:21:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/treasuries-rise-as-u-s-sells-seven-year-debt-at-record-low-yield-amid-qe.html
Treasuries rallied for a second day
as the  Federal Reserve ’s pledge to keep borrowing rates low and
consider additional asset purchases pushed the yield to a record
low at today’s auction of $29 billion in seven-year notes.  The securities drew a yield of 1.359 percent, compared with
the previous record low auction yield of 1.415 percent in
November. Yields on five-year notes fell to all-time lows for a
second consecutive day after Fed Chairman Ben S. Bernanke
yesterday unexpectedly said that bond buying is “an option
that’s certainly on the table.”  “Bernanke gave people a free pass to buy the belly of the
curve,” Dan Mulholland, a Treasury trader in New York at RBC
Capital Markets LLC, one of 21 primary dealers required to bid
at government-debt auctions, said referring Treasuries maturing
in the medium term. “Yesterday’s Fed announcement caught the
market off guard.”  Current seven-year notes yields fell seven basis points, or
0.07 percentage point, to 1.32 percent at 5 p.m.  New York  time,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 1.375 percent
note due December 2018 rose 14/32, or $4.38 per $1,000 face
value, to 100 11/32.  The 10-year  note yield  fell six basis points to 1.93
percent. It fell seven basis points yesterday, the most since
Jan. 11. Five-year yields fell four basis points to 0.77 percent
after earlier touching a  record low  of 0.75.  Assets Soar  Investors who snapped up the Treasury’s $35 billion auction
of five-year notes sold yesterday saw the assets soar as much as
$238 million after the Fed pledged to keep interest rates low at
least through late 2014.  The securities were auctioned at higher-than-average demand
to yield 0.899 percent before touching a record 0.7601 percent
in less than two hours.  “When you don’t have to worry about interest-rate policy,
it makes it much easier,” said  William Larkin , a fixed-income
 money manager  who helps oversee $500 million at Cabot Money
Management Inc. in Salem,  Massachusetts . “There are lots of
inflows going into fixed income, so the auctions get eaten up
because of an appetite for safety.”  Today’s record low yield on the seven-year note was higher
than the forecast of 1.346 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
eight of the Fed’s primary dealers.  “The auction tailed a little bit, but it’s not a disaster
by any means,” said RBC’s Mulholland. A tail is a yield result
higher than where the securities were trading before the
auction.  Indirect Bidders  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 31.8 percent of the notes, the lowest
since March 2009, compared with an average of 41.7 percent for
the past 10 offerings.  Direct bidders , non-primary-dealer
investors that place their bids directly with the Treasury,
purchased 11.6 percent, the same as the average at the past 10
auctions.  Treasury seven-year notes have dropped 0.3 percent this
year after gaining 13.7 percent in 2011, according to Bank of
America Merrill Lynch  indexes . The overall Treasury market
dropped 0.5 percent as of yesterday, after rising 9.8 percent
last year.  Treasury market  volume  rose yesterday to the highest since
Nov. 1 after policy makers said the Fed will remain
accommodative. About $381 billion of Treasuries changed hands
through ICAP Plc, the world’s largest interdealer broker, above
the one-year average of $282 billion. Volume fell to about $320
billion today.  ‘Monetary Accommodation’  Bernanke said yesterday the central bank is considering
additional bond purchases to boost growth after extending its
pledge to keep  interest rates  low through at least late 2014.
The Fed has already purchased $2.3 trillion of debt in two
rounds of quantitative easing known as QE1 and QE2. U.S. policy
makers are “prepared to provide further monetary
accommodation,” Bernanke said after officials completed a two-
day meeting yesterday.  “There certainly still could be a rally,” said  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut . “That said, we have priced in a fair
amount of negative economic sentiments as well potential for the
Fed to increase its balance sheet still further.”  The Fed bought $2.522 billion of Treasuries due from
February 2036 to November 2041 today as part of its program to
replace $400 billion of short-term debt in its portfolio with
longer-term Treasuries in an effort to reduce borrowing costs
further and counter rising risks of a recession.  Double Top  Treasury 30-year bond yields may fall below 2 percent as
the Fed is more likely to extend the average maturity of its
holdings than to buy more securities, according to Citigroup
Global Markets.  A technical indicator known as a double top in a chart of
long-bond yields indicates a decrease to as low as 1.8 percent
with a drop “at least” to 2.1 percent,  Tom Fitzpatrick , chief
technical analyst at the Citigroup Inc. unit in New York, wrote
today in a research note with colleagues.  Yields on 30-year bonds dropped six basis points to 3.09
percent today. Yields fell to a record low 2.51 percent in
December 2008.  Shorter-term Treasuries tend to track what the central bank
does with its  target  for overnight lending, while longer
maturities are more influenced by the inflation outlook.  Fannie Yields  Yields on  Fannie Mae ’s  current coupon  30-year fix-rate
mortgage bond declined to 2.7 percent today, the lowest ever, as
investors bet the Fed will continue easing. The yield declined
to 78 basis points more than 10-year U.S. government debt, the
tightest so-called spread since February.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.12
percentage points, under just the 10-year average of 2.13
percentage points.  The  U.S. Senate  voted today to permit a $1.2 trillion
increase in the nation’s debt limit designed to be large enough
to accommodate borrowing through the November election.  Fed policy makers set a long-term goal of 2 percent
inflation yesterday, and forecast that price increases would
fall short of that target this year and next.  Today’s sale was the final of three note auctions this week
totaling $99 billion. The U.S. sold $35 billion of five-year
debt yesterday at a yield of 0.899 percent, close to the record
low yield of 0.88 percent reached at the Dec. 20 auction of the
securities. It auctioned an equal amount of two-year notes the
previous day at a yield of 0.25 percent, drawing stronger-than-
average demand of 3.75 versus an average of 3.43 for the
previous 10 sales.  Durable Goods  U.S. government-debt  yields earlier fell as orders for U.S.
durable goods rose more than forecast in December and claims for
jobless benefits increased last week.  “The data has less importance in the market because the
Fed has made an effort to say that, even if things improve, they
still expect to remain accommodative for a considerable period
of time,” said Thomas Simons, a government-debt economist in
New York at Jefferies Group Inc., a primary dealer.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  