-- Treasury Auction Hands Five-Year Investors $238 Million After Fed Eases
-- B y   J o h n   D e t r i x h e
-- 2012-01-26T18:50:23Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/treasury-auction-hands-investors-238-million-profit-after-fed-rate-stance.html
Investors who snapped up the
Treasury’s $35 billion auction of five-year notes saw the assets
soar as much as $238 million after the  Federal Reserve  pledged
to keep  interest rates  low at least through late 2014.  The securities were auctioned yesterday at higher-than-
average demand to yield 0.899 percent before touching a record
0.7601 percent in less than two hours. Stock and bond markets
rallied after the central bank extended its previous pledge to
keep borrowing costs low at least until the middle of 2013. Fed
officials reduced their forecasts for economic growth and price
increases this year and in 2013.  “They took risk,”  Scott Sherman , an interest-rate
strategist in  New York  Credit Suisse Group AG, one of Fed’s 21
primary dealers required to bid at the sale, said of the
investors who profited from the auction. “The statement could
have had contained something much more bearish and they would
have taken it on the chin. They accepted that risk and it ended
up working out for them.”  The Treasury’s five-year notes auction yield compared with
a forecast of 0.919 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of 10
primary dealers. The bid-to-cover ratio, which gauges demand by
comparing total bids with the amount of securities offered, was
3.17, the highest since May, versus an average of 2.863 for the
previous 10 sales.  Fed Purchases  Indirect bidders , an investor class that includes foreign
central banks, purchased 43.4 percent of the notes, compared
with an average of 43.7 percent for the past 10 sales.  Direct
bidders (USB5DBA%) , non-primary-dealer investors that place their bids
directly with the Treasury, purchased 15.1 percent of the notes,
compared with an average of 11.3 percent at the last 10
auctions.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  also said the bank is
considering additional asset purchases to boost economic growth.  Policy makers are “prepared to provide further monetary
accommodation if employment is not making sufficient progress
towards our assessment of its maximum level, or if inflation
shows signs of moving further below its mandate-consistent
rate,” Bernanke said yesterday at a news conference after a
Federal Open Market Committee meeting in  Washington . Bond buying
is “an option that’s certainly on the table.”  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Index climbed 0.9 percent
yesterday, the biggest increase in five days and reached the
highest level since July 27. The  stock index  fell 0.4 percent at
1:38 p.m. in New York. The yield on the current  five-year  note
fell five basis points to 0.76 percent after touching a record
low earlier.  Seven-Year Auction  “The likelihood of the Fed surprising us in the other
direction was really unlikely.” Mark MacQueen, partner and
portfolio manager in Austin,  Texas , at Sage Advisory Services
Ltd., which oversees $10 billion, said today in a telephone
interview. “I don’t see how much clearer the Fed has to be in
telling us that they plan to keep monetary policy easy.”  The five-year auction was the second of three note sales
totaling $99 billion this week. The U.S. sold $35 billion of
two-year notes on Jan. 24 and auctioned $29 billion of seven-
year securities at a record low yield today.  The seven-year debt drew a yield of 1.359 percent, compared
with a forecast of 1.346 percent in a Bloomberg News survey of
eight of the Fed’s 21 primary dealers.  Dealers bought 56.6 percent of the securities, compared
with an average of 46.7 percent in the past 10 auctions,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “It was light non-dealer bidding, which is what I would
emphasize,”  Ian Lyngen , a government-bond strategist at CRT
Capital Group LLC in  Stamford ,  Connecticut , said in a telephone
interview. “Dealers had to step up to take down an auction on a
day when the market had been rallying, making the set up a bit
more difficult. The Fed and the bullish series of events
associated with that brought the seven-year down to its lowest
on record.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
John Detrixhe in New York at 
 jdetrixhe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  