-- Renewables From Vestas to Suntech Plan Profit Without Subsidy
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-01-26T23:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/renewables-from-vestas-to-suntech-plan-profits-without-subsidy.html
Renewable energy companies are
approaching the point where they can generate electricity at a
price competitive with fossil-fuels without subsidies, the
biggest wind and solar manufacturers said.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. Chief Executive Officer
Zhengrong Shi said solar will reach parity with fossil fuels on
electric grids by 2015.  Vestas Wind systems A/S  expects its
turbines to compete without incentives “in the coming years,”
said Peter Brun, head of governmental relations.  “Wind in some cases already is, or can in coming years, be
fully cost-competitive with fossil fuels,” Brun said yesterday
by e-mail from the  World Economic Forum  in Davos, Switzerland.
“Fossil-fuel prices will continue to rise, and that increases
the competitiveness of new technologies. We are preparing the
whole industry for getting off the subsidy-need.”  Caught between oversupply and tumbling prices, the
companies are reminding governments that their products are
taking the biggest share of new power generation and
increasingly rivaling oil and gas. That’s pushing green growth
up the agenda as Germany and  Japan  close nuclear reactors and
President  Barack Obama  defends U.S. support for renewables.  Renewables Boom  New electricity generation from the wind, sun, waves and
biomass drew $187 billion in 2010 compared with $157 billion for
added capacity from natural gas, oil and coal, according to
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, the first time investment in
renewables has exceeded that of fossil fuels.  “Renewables are the energy of the future, and there’s been
a larger investment in renewable energy than conventional
energy,” said Steve Sawyer, secretary-general of the Global
Wind Energy Council in Brussels, who first attended Davos in the
early 1990s as a lobbyist for Greenpeace when clean energy
companies were tiny.  Subsidies to renewables totaled $66 billion worldwide in
2010, according to the most recent figures from the
 International Energy Agency . Incentives must be retained to meet
existing targets of diversifying the  energy supply , the Paris-
based group said.  Power from solar panels costs more than triple natural gas,
according to levelized cost of energy data from New Energy
Finance. Onshore wind is close to parity with coal, and about a
quarter more pricey than gas.  ‘Very Competitive’  Solar power will be “very competitive” within a decade,
and in some places, it’s already near “grid parity,” meaning
it can compete without subsidies,  Trina Solar Ltd. (TSL)  Chief
Executive Officer Jifan Gao said in an interview in Davos. He
spoke through an interpreter.  “We see costs coming down and manufacturing efficiency
being improved all the time,” said Gao, whose company is the
fifth biggest maker of silicon-based solar panel. “In places
like  Australia , this year they will reach grid parity; next year
Italy will, and in 2014 regions like  California .”  Gao’s comments support those of Suntech’s Shi, who told
Bloomberg television that with government support, the industry
has made “tremendous progress,” and solar prices have been cut
in half in a year.  “We believe that by 2015, there will be around 50 percent
of countries where it reaches grid parity,” Shi said.  Vestas Aims  Brun at Vestas said that the cost of wind power is “site-
specific” and that the technology may reach grid parity in the
breeziest areas by 2020. He declined to say where. Governments
and the industry should consider re-allocating subsidies to
turbines in areas with lower wind speeds, and offshore, where
winds are stronger and costs are higher, he said.  With incentives for wind and solar power under threat in
the U.S. and the European Union as governments tighten budgets,
Davos serves as a forum for industry executives to remind
governments of the need to promote renewables as part of the
effort to stem  climate change , said  Tulsi Tanti , chairman of
 Suzlon Energy Ltd. (SUEL) ,  India ’s biggest wind-turbine maker.  “Davos is the one place the most important decision makers
of the world -- be it government or business -- converge,”
Tanti said in e-mailed answers to questions. “The most crucial
issue this year will be to argue for policy certainty despite
the economic environment.”  In the U.S. the wind industry is threatened by the loss of
a tax credit which expires at the end of this year. Vestas has
said it may fire 1,600 U.S. workers if the credit isn’t renewed,
and Obama in his State of the Union Speech on Jan. 24 urged
Congress to “pass clean-energy tax credits.”  “I will not walk away from the promise of clean energy,”
Obama said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Will Wade at 
 wwade4@bloomberg.net ;
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  