-- Republicans May Block Nominees After Obama Recess Appointments
-- B y   L a u r a   L i t v a n
-- 2012-01-27T05:01:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/republicans-may-impede-some-judges-after-recess-appointments.html
Senate Republicans are weighing a
plan to block most of President Barack Obama’s federal appeals
court nominations starting in June or earlier in response to the
recess appointments he made this month.  The idea was discussed at a private retreat of Senate
Republicans on Jan. 25 at  Mount Vernon , the Virginia estate of
 George Washington . The option of stopping all consideration of
executive and judicial nominees didn’t get as much support as a
more modest reaction to Obama’s recess appointments, which
included the installation of  Richard Cordray  as director of the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, senators said.  Broadly blocking nominees “was discussed, but we’re also
very aware he would like us to play into his narrative, and
we’re not going to take the bait,” said Senator  John Cornyn  of
 Texas , who heads the National Republican Senatorial Committee,
referring to Obama’s rhetoric about a “do-nothing” Congress.  “There will be a response, but it will be measured and
appropriate,” Cornyn said.  The Constitution gives presidents authority to make
appointments without confirmation when the Senate is in recess.
Republicans say Obama’s Jan. 4 appointments of Cordray and three
National Labor Relations Board members were unlawful, because
the Senate stayed in session by holding brief pro-forma meetings
every three days during the holiday break.  Such sessions also were used to forestall appointments when
Republican President  George W. Bush  was in office.  Precedent for Delays  The idea of stopping consideration of U.S. Circuit Court
nominees near the end of a presidential term has precedent. The
late Senator  Strom Thurmond , a South Carolina Republican who was
the longest-serving senator in U.S. history, tried to do that
when he was the Judiciary Committee chairman in the 1980s.  His so-called “Thurmond rule” generally held that
appellate-court nominations shouldn’t advance starting in June
in the final year of a president’s term, unless they were
broadly accepted by both parties.  Senator  Patrick Leahy , a Vermont Democrat who heads the
Judiciary Committee, employed this practice when President
George W. Bush was in office. In an interview today, Leahy said
the rule has been “all over the board” and described “12
different ways” it was used by Thurmond. Leahy insisted that he
showed flexibility when Bush was in office.  “I put through a number of  George Bush ’s nominees, even
after June,” Leahy said.  Halting Nominees  Senator  Tom Coburn , an Oklahoma Republican and a member of
the Judiciary Committee, said he thinks Leahy started holding
nominees up earlier than June. Coburn said it might be
appropriate for Republicans to start halting Obama’s appeals
court picks in March.  “I think that’s kind of the rule now,” he said.  Senator Marco Rubio of  Florida , a first-term lawmaker who
was elected with Tea Party backing, also said the idea is being
considered. He said he’s not sure if he favors it.  Rubio said he is ruling out broad approaches under which
the Senate would reject nominees as retribution for Obama’s
recent appointments.  “I think there are significant constitutional issues
here,” Rubio said. “On the other hand, I’m uncomfortable about
taking measures to simply oppose people just to offer a shot
across the bow.”  At least one Senate Republican said he was willing to
consider a broad strategy. In remarks on the Senate floor
yesterday,  Mike Lee  of Utah said he might delay nominees unless
Obama rescinds his recess appointments.  Duty Bound  “I find myself duty bound to resist the consideration and
approval of additional nominations until the president takes
steps to remedy the situation,” Lee said.  Lee’s spokesman, Brian Phillips, said the senator’s actions
will probably include requiring Senate Majority Leader  Harry Reid , a Nevada Democrat, to go through the process of breaking a
filibuster on every nomination vote. Many routine nominations
move through the Senate unanimously, taking only an instant to
pass. That allows Reid to use floor time for other matters.  Some Republican senators say they will look primarily to
the courts to resolve the recess appointments issue. The
 National Federation of Independent Business  and four other
litigants have challenged the labor-board appointments in
federal court in  Washington . The plaintiffs argue that the
agency can’t enforce a new rule because the appointments were
made without the advice and consent of the Senate.  Coburn said Republicans shouldn’t fall into a “political
trap” set by the president. “I think you let the court case go
forward,” Coburn said.  Talks to Continue  Senator  Charles Grassley  of  Iowa , the top Republican on the
Judiciary panel, said talks will continue on an appropriate
reaction to the recess appointments, and he stressed that no
decisions have been made.  “The caucus is still divided on exactly what to do, but
something has to be done,” he said.  The Senate this week voted, 74-16, to confirm John M. Gerrard as a U.S. district court judge in  Nebraska , in a vote
scheduled before the recess appointments.  There are 78 other nominations pending before the full
Senate, including 18 judicial nominees and candidates for
comptroller of the currency, two spots on the Federal Trade
Commission and two positions on the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corp.’s board.  On the U.S. circuit courts, there are currently 16
vacancies, she said, and nine of those have nominations pending
before the full Senate or in committee.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laura Litvan in Washington at 
 llitvan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  