-- Rio Tinto May Seek Changes to Management of Ivanhoe After Boosting Stake
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2012-01-27T05:31:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/rio-boosts-ivanhoe-mines-stake-may-seek-management-changes-filing-shows.html
  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s third-
largest mining company, may seek to replace  Ivanhoe Mines Ltd. (IVN) ’s
senior management after moving to increase its stake to 51
percent this week.  Rio is reviewing Ivanhoe’s management though it has no
“current plan to make any change in the present board of
directors or management,” London-based Rio said in a filing.
“The  Rio Tinto  companies anticipate that they will, in the
future, seek the replacement of some of the management,
including senior management, of the company and at least a
majority of the non-Rio Tinto appointed directors.”  Rio this week said it bought C$302 million ($301 million)
of  stock  in Ivanhoe, the owner of the $6 billion Oyu Tolgoi
copper and gold mine in  Mongolia , paying C$20 apiece for 15.1
million shares. It said at the time that it had no “current
intention” of buying more stock.  “Rio is looking to do small, incremental steps with
Ivanhoe and putting your men on the board is probably the next
natural progression,”  Chris Weston , institutional dealer at IG
Markets in Melbourne said by phone. “It would make a lot of
sense to put your own people in place in a company where you’ve
gained control.”  Rio Tinto rose 2.1 percent to A$69.78 at the close of
Sydney trading, compared with a 0.4 percent rise in the
benchmark S&P/ASX 200 Index.  Oyu Tolgoi  Construction of Oyu Tolgoi is 70 percent complete and
commercial production is due to start in the first half of 2013,
Rio said this week.  Ivanhoe owns 66 percent of Oyu Tolgoi, which is located 80
kilometers (50 miles) north of Mongolia’s border with  China . The
project will be one of the world’s five biggest copper mines,
according to  Rio, (RIO)  which is managing its development.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rebecca Keenan at 
 rkeenan5@bloomberg.net  