-- Roche Is Seen Offering Illumina More for Gene Mapping: Real M&A
-- B y   N a o m i   K r e s g e   a n d   C h a r l e s   M e a d
-- 2012-01-26T12:56:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/roche-seen-offering-illumina-24-more-for-gene-mapping-real-m-a.html
Roche Holding AG (ROG)  may need to raise
its $5.7 billion bid for Illumina Inc. by the most of any North
American takeover to gain access to its gene-mapping technology,
according to arbitragers who bet on mergers and acquisitions.  Illumina, the San Diego-based company in a race to develop
a machine able to parse the building blocks of life in a day,
jumped to $55.15 yesterday, 24 percent above Roche’s proposal of
$44.50. That signals traders are more convinced Illumina will
receive a higher offer than any other pending deal in  North
America , according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Roche, which in two previous successful hostile takeovers
under Chairman Franz Humer increased its initial offers by 6.7
percent and 19 percent, may be willing to boost its bid this
time because Illumina’s technology for mapping genes is more
advanced than its competitors, Helvea SA said. Roche, the
world’s biggest maker of cancer drugs, could eventually pay $60
a share, or 35 percent more than the current proposal, according
to  Robert W. Baird  & Co. and Water Island Capital LLC.  “There’s no company quite like Illumina out there that
they could buy,” Karl Heinz Koch, a Zurich-based analyst at
Helvea, said in a telephone interview. “They’re unique with
very advanced technology, extremely expensive machines. It
complements the Roche offering perfectly, especially when you
look at how the pharmaceutical market is evolving.”  Daniel Grotzky, a spokesman for Basel, Switzerland-based
Roche, declined to comment and referred to statements that Chief
Executive Officer Severin Schwan, 44, made in a conference call
with reporters yesterday.  Fair Value  Schwan said on the call that Roche has no intention of
raising its bid and that the proposal is “attractive and
compelling” and offers “full and fair value.”  Roche, which also said  Illumina (ILMN)  was “unwilling to
participate in substantive discussions” after approaching it
last month, intends to take its offer directly to shareholders.  Illumina’s board will review the proposal and make a
recommendation to shareholders in due course, it said in a
statement yesterday. Cassandra Bujarski, a spokeswoman for
Illumina, declined to comment beyond the statement. The company
today said it adopted a shareholder rights agreement, a takeover
defense known as a “poison pill” that can block a hostile bid
by making it prohibitively expensive.  While Roche’s offer was 18 percent higher than Illumina’s
price on Jan. 24, shares of Illumina had already rallied 45
percent from an almost three-year low in December as speculation
emerged that it was a takeover target.  ‘Seize’ Opportunity  On Dec. 21, a week after Roche said it  first met  with
Illumina’s CEO and chairman to discuss its interest in buying
the company, Schwan said in an interview with Bloomberg News
that Roche would be ready to “seize” the right opportunity.  Quintin Lai, an analyst at Robert W. Baird in  Milwaukee ,
said Roche is more likely to raise its offer price to at least
$60 a share to complete the deal rather than walk away.  Illumina, which  surged  46 percent yesterday to $55.15 a
share, could help Roche maintain its lead in cancer treatments
as doctors turn to gene mapping to personalize oncology
therapies, he said. Roche has more than twice the market share
for cancer drugs as its closest competitor, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  “When Roche looks into its crystal ball, I think it sees
that sequencing is going to be a cornerstone of the decision-
making on what drugs to give patients,” Lai said. “If they can
make the drug, that’s great, if they can be part of it from a
diagnostic point of view, even better.”  Bidding Contest  At $60 a share, Illumina would be worth $7.5 billion, which
may be a starting point for any potential agreement, said Matt Osowiecki, a New York-based senior analyst at Water Island
Capital, which manages the $2.8 billion Arbitrage Fund.  “Roche is committed,” he said in a telephone interview.
“If it’s anyone’s company to buy, it’s Roche’s.”  Keith Moore , an event-driven strategist at MKM Partners in
 Stamford ,  Connecticut , said a bidding contest for Illumina could
emerge and may attract  General Electric Co. (GE) , Life Technologies
Corp.,  Siemens AG (SIE)  or  Novartis AG. (NOVN)   JoAnna Morris, director of corporate investor
communications at Fairfield, Connecticut-based GE, didn’t
immediately return a telephone call seeking comment outside
normal business hours.  Too Optimistic?  Mauricio Minotta, a spokesman for Carlsbad, California-
based Life Technologies, Annie Seiple, a spokeswoman for Munich-
based Siemens, and Julie Masow, a spokeswoman for Novartis of
Basel, all declined to comment on whether their companies were
interested in acquiring Illumina.  “The list of potentially interested strategic parties
could be surprisingly long,” Tycho Peterson, an analyst at
JPMorgan Chase & Co. in  New York , said in a report to clients
yesterday. He boosted his estimate for Illumina to $70 a share.  Sachin Shah, a  Jersey City , New Jersey-based merger
arbitrage strategist at Tullett Prebon Plc, said traders betting
on such a large increase from Roche may be too optimistic.  Roche bought Tuscon, Arizona-based Ventana Medical Systems
Inc. for $89.50 a share in February 2008 after raising its
hostile bid by 19 percent from $75 a share, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Roche persuaded Genentech Inc. of South San
Francisco,  California , to accept its takeover offer in March
2009 after increasing its original proposal by 6.7 percent.  Illumina Options  “The sky is not the limit because Roche is frugal -- they
want the deal to get done where it makes sense,” Shah said in a
telephone interview. In addition, “nobody really wants to go
head to head with Roche. It would be a modest increase because
that’s how Roche does it,” he said.  Siemens, which partnered with Illumina in November to work
on genome sequencing devices, and Novartis aren’t interested in
bidding, according to people familiar with their plans, who
declined to be identified because the matters are private.  Options traders are still increasing their bullish wagers
on Illumina, indicating they anticipate a higher bid, according
to Lillian Seidman-Davis, a strategist with a concentration in
health-care companies at Miller Tabak & Co. in New York.  Trading of call  options  giving the right to buy Illumina
shares  soared  to a record 67,349 contracts yesterday. The March
$60 calls accounted for 7.2 percent of all call volume,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  ‘Low-Ball Offer’  “It’s clearly a low-ball offer, and Roche knows it,” said
Jean-Francois Comte, co-founder of Lutetia Capital, which
manages a $100 million event-driven fund in Paris. “It will
never be accepted” at the current level, he said.  Buying Illumina would give Roche technology for reading the
genetic makeup of tumors, potentially allowing the company to
offer treatments specific to individual patients. Illumina said
Jan. 10 that it would market in the second half of the year its
 HiSeq 2500 machine  that can sequence a genome in a day.  The current Illumina machines can sequence five human
genomes in 10 days, according to the company.  Life Technologies (LIFE)  also announced Jan. 10 it was taking
orders for a sequencer designed to provide a full transcript of
a person’s DNA, as  deoxyribonucleic acid  is commonly known, in a
day. DNA contains genetic information that determines
differences in living organisms.  Roche will use its global reach to move genome sequencing
beyond academic labs and into patient treatment, Daniel O’Day,
the company’s head of diagnostics, said yesterday.  The company has begun the process of nominating candidates
to  Illumina’s board  to be considered at the annual meeting,
Schwan said yesterday on a conference call. Roche said it
already owns a “very small” amount of Illumina shares.  “Roche is a deal squatter -- they move into a stock and
have no intention of leaving until they get what they want,”
 Louis Meyer , a special situations analyst at Oscar Gruss & Son
Inc., said in a telephone interview. “They’re going have to
raise their bid to get what they want.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Naomi Kresge in Berlin at 
 nkresge@bloomberg.net ;
Charles Mead in New York at 
 cmead11@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Phil Serafino at   pserafino@bloomberg.net . 