-- Roche’s Bid for Illumina May Spur Deals as DNA Tests Reach Doctor’s Office
-- B y   R o b e r t   L a n g r e t h ,   M e g   T i r r e l l   a n d   R y a n   F l i n n
-- 2012-01-26T21:07:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/roche-s-bid-for-illumina-may-spur-deals-as-dna-tests-reach-doctor-s-office.html
Less than 10 years after the first
human genome was decoded,  Roche Holding AG (ROG) ’s hostile $5.7
billion bid for  Illumina Inc. (ILMN)  may spark additional deals as
companies race to bring DNA scanning into routine medical use.  Illumina competes with  Life Technologies Corp. (LIFE) ,  Affymetrix
Inc. (AFFX)  and other companies to sell gene-decoding machines that are
just starting to be used to tailor therapies for patients with
cancer and inherited diseases. While scientific excitement
around genome sequencing is high, the companies’ shares have
plummeted over the last year because their target customers are
mostly scientists dependent on grants in a tough economy.  Getting the technology out of the lab and into doctors’
offices and hospitals could vastly expand the existing $1.5
billion market for gene sequencing machines, industry officials
and analysts said.  “This is going to be an enormous opportunity, and now you
see it unfolding,” said Greg Lucier, chief executive officer of
Life Technologies, based in Carlsbad,  California , in a telephone
interview. The bid Roche is an acknowledgment that DNA mapping
is key to the future of diagnostics, particularly involving its
use in cancer treatment, he said.  Illumina today adopted a so-called poison-pill takeover
defense in which shareholders will receive one preferred stock
purchase right as a dividend for each common share held as of
the close of business on Feb. 6.  The San Diego-based company fell 4.5 percent to $52.65 in
New York trading. Roche, based in  Basel ,  Switzerland , rose less
than 1 percent to 160.20 Swiss francs in Zurich.  ‘Unwilling to Participate’  Roche made its hostile offer directly to Illumina
shareholders after saying the testing company was “unwilling to
participate in substantive discussions,” according to a
statement yesterday.  The rights agreement adopted today by Illumina can block a
hostile bid by making it prohibitively expensive. Should Roche
or another bidder own 15 percent or more of Illumina’s stock,
other shareholders will be able to exercise the rights to buy
new common stock, diluting the stake of the prospective bidder.  Before initial talk of a takeover attempt surfaced in
December, the shares of Illumina -- which draws a third of its
 revenue  from researchers funded by the  National Institutes of
Health  -- had dropped 58 percent over 12 months. Life
Technologies and Affymetrix also tumbled, leaving them as
vulnerable as Illumina to buyout bids, said Bill Bonello, an
analyst with  RBC Capital Markets  in  Minneapolis .  ‘Intensity M&A Angle’  “This will intensify the M&A angle people will look at
with these stocks,” Ross Muken, an analyst with Deutsche Bank
Securities Inc. in New York, said in a telephone interview.  The human genome was first sequenced in 2003. The market
for machines that map DNA has been “fast-growing” over the
last five years, said Daniel O’Day, chief operating officer of
Roche’s diagnostics division, in a conference call yesterday.  “We expect that to continue into the future,” O’Day said.
“Today, it is over a $1 billion marketplace, and we expect that
to be over a $2 billion marketplace in 2015.”  The devices sold by Illumina, Life Technologies and
Affymetrix search through DNA coding that contains the
instructions for making all human cells. Scientists use the
technology to build an understanding of how variations or
mutations found by the machines contribute to disease.  Cancer Variations  This is particularly true in cancer, where variations can
contribute to uncontrolled cell growth. Doctors want to use
genetic data to aim cancer treatments precisely at these
variations, and stop only diseased cells from growing. Genome
sequencing is also helping doctors understand, diagnose and, in
some cases, treat mysterious childhood diseases that had
previously taken years to identify.  The  National Human Genome Research Institute  has allocated
funds to determine how to integrate individuals’ genetic
information into day-to-day clinical care issues, such as the
appropriate dosing of drugs.  Already, U.S. regulators are working with drugmakers in
approving cancer drugs tied to companion genetic tests. Pfizer
Inc.’s crizotinib, a treatment for a form of  lung cancer  caused
by a genetic defect, was approved in August along with a
companion diagnostic made by a unit of Abbott Laboratories that
determines whether a patient has the abnormal gene.  Roche, the world’s biggest developer of cancer medicines,
has particular experience with gene-targeted therapies.  Herceptin, Zelboraf  The company sells the breast-cancer drug Herceptin, one of
the first cancer medicines aimed only at a subset of patients
whose tumors have a particular genetic abnormality. In August,
it garnered U.S. regulatory approval for Zelboraf, a melanoma
drug that works on patients whose tumors have a certain gene
mutation. Roche also sells a companion test with Zelboraf.  While Roche may be a pioneer in its bid for Illumina, it
isn’t clear that other drugmakers will seek to acquire similar
companies unless they already have a toe in the business, said
 Les Funtleyder , a portfolio manager with Miller Tabak & Co. in
New York, whose fund owns Illumina shares.  “It seems like a bit of a leap for a pharmaceutical
company to get into a whole new line of business,” Funtleyder
said in a telephone interview. “You don’t need a sequencer to
develop a companion diagnostic; you just need the sequence. And
you can outsource that.”  Funtleyder cited  General Electric Co. (GE)  and Abbott as
companies with existing businesses that may consider a similar
acquisition.  ‘Best in Class’  With Illumina, Roche is “buying best in class,” said
Peter Lawson, an analyst with Mizuho Securities in New York, by
telephone. “Illumina’s one of the most interesting companies in
this space. They’ve been serial innovators, they’ve been great
acquirers of technology and great executors.”  Illumina has been in a race to develop the first machine to
be able to parse the building blocks of life in a day, rather
than weeks or months. It announced Jan. 10 that it would market
such a machine in the second half of this year. Life
Technologies said on the same day it had reached the same goal.
The current Illumina machines can sequence five human genomes in
10 days, according to the company.  Erik Gordon , a professor at the Ross School of Business at
the  University of Michigan  in  Ann Arbor , sees Roche and Illumina
as a perfect fit.  “On its own, Illumina will have trouble reaching the
broader clinical markets for its devices and will remain
dependent on the shaky government-funded markets,” Gordon said
in an e-mail. ‘As part of Roche, it quickly gets through the
door at clinics worldwide.”  At the same time, he said, “Roche gets another product to
run through its sales channel.”  Harvard Geneticist  George Church, a Harvard Medical School geneticist who has
founded and advised numerous companies in the industry, said
Roche “probably had their eye on Illumina for a long time and
were waiting for the price to come down. They knew it was a
valuable company; why not buy it at its lowest point?”  The sequencing technology is moving so fast the Illumina
technology may become quickly outmoded, said Craig Venter, who
led a private team that sequenced one of the first two human
genomes a decade ago and runs the J. Craig Venter Institute in
Rockville,  Maryland .  “I don’t understand why Roche would do this deal when the
technology is changing so rapidly,” he said. “I am puzzled.”  When Venter was racing a government team to scan the first
human genome, he needed 300 expensive sequencing machines in
100,000 square feet of lab space, he said. Now researchers can
build a world-class facility with just 10 smaller desktop
machines, he said.  Four Years Difference  “One of these new machines replaces 100 of our old
machines four years ago,” he said.  Michael Pellini, chief executive officer of Foundation
Medicine in Cambridge,  Massachusetts , a company that sells a
test looking at 200 cancer genes, said the research market for
the machines is saturated while the far bigger market of
potential routine medical use is just emerging.  “This technology has not crossed over into the clinical
world in earnest,” Pellini said in a telephone interview.
“That is the big disconnect.”  Roche can help bridge the
divide with its expertise in diagnostic tests, he said.  Roche’s pursuit of Illumina reflects the growing focus of
health-care companies on personalized medicine, said  Susan
Clark , professor of medicine at the University of New South
Wales, whose lab at the Garvan Institute in Sydney uses Illumina
equipment to study cancer gene expression.  The challenge is to better match their cancer therapies
with the specific patient populations who will be benefit most,
she said. Faster DNA scanning technologies could help, she said.  “A lot of money has been spent by pharmaceutical companies
to try to find designer drugs,” Clark said in an interview.
“But with designer drugs, you need to know the population that
they will target because they are so expensive.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Robert Langreth in  New York  at 
 rlangreth@bloomberg.net ;
Meg Tirrell in New York at 
 mtirrell@bloomberg.net ;
Ryan Flinn in  San Francisco  at 
 rflinn@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  