-- Romney’s Business Record Asset Has Become His Biggest Liability
-- B y   J o s h u a   G r e e n
-- 2012-01-26T04:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/romney-s-business-record-asset-has-become-his-biggest-liability.html
In theory,  Mitt Romney  is the beau
ideal of a CEO president: the pioneering leader of  Bain Capital 
who attained enormous success in business and government and
whose signature skill --- turning around troubled companies ---
is a sterling credential in a time of economic stagnation.  George W. Bush  once claimed to be the MBA president, to
everyone’s eventual embarrassment. Romney’s the real thing,
which is a big reason why he came to be seen by voters as the
most electable Republican, Bloomberg Businessweek reports in its
Jan. 30 issue.  Sure enough, his career has become the central issue in the
campaign. But the focus hasn’t been the appeal of an executive
applying his knowhow to government. Instead, attention has
fallen mainly on the collateral damage inflicted by private
equity firms and the preferential tax treatment given to those
who have amassed fortunes running them.  Rather than standing for what’s best about business, Romney
is being held up as typifying what’s worst.  That’s tarnished the mythology of the businessman as
president, and could force  Washington  to act against the very
executives who are his most fervent supporters. Romney may even
inadvertently bring about what liberal reformers have tried and
failed to achieve for years: a  tax code  that imposes a much
heavier share of the burden on people like him.  At the heart of the debate lies a loophole, the carried-
interest provision that allows private equity executives like
Romney to treat their income as  capital gains  taxed at a rate of
15 percent, rather than the 35 percent top rate that applies to
ordinary income.  An Unconscionable Sop  Many Democrats and a few Republicans regard this as an
unconscionable sop to the rich. When they controlled the House
from 2007-2010, Democrats passed legislation four times to end
it. But reform has never advanced, partly because senators,
including some Democrats, have interfered.  Wall Street  is a
major source of Democratic campaign contributions.  When carried interest first came up as a political issue
five years ago, Senator Charles E. Schumer, a New York Democrat,
killed any chance of reform by insisting that any law
threatening the loophole also apply to investment partnerships
in other industries, such as oil and mineral exploration. That
caused a broad enough outcry from financiers to stop the bill,
and the issue fell into limbo.  Romney has changed that. His 2010 and 2011 tax returns,
released under duress on Jan. 24, show he paid a rate of just
13.9 percent and made $13 million in carried interest --- this
during a period of self-described “unemployment.”  Special Treatment  Overnight he came to personify the special treatment given
to the rich, putting a name, face and tax return to what had
previously been an abstraction.  “His tax forms show the inequity of that exemption,” says
David Min, a former counsel to the Senate Banking Committee who
is now a scholar at the liberal Center for American Progress.
“At this point, I don’t think anyone wants to be publicly
opposed to ending it.”  Romney’s inability thus far to convincingly explain how his
business experience would benefit the country, coupled with
attacks from his primary opponents, has taken a significant
toll. Exit polls from the South Carolina primary show that the
victor there,  Newt Gingrich , is now seen as the more electable
candidate  Meanwhile, prominent Republicans are distancing themselves
from breaks such as the carried-interest deduction.  Republican Response  In the Republican response to Obama’s State of the Union
address, a speech highlighting the contrast between the rich and
the middle class, Indiana Governor  Mitch Daniels  called for
measures to “stop sending the wealthy benefits they do not need
and stop providing them so many tax preferences that distort our
economy and do little or nothing to foster growth.”  The current assumption in Washington is that little of
importance will happen this year, and that  tax reform  won’t be
addressed until 2013. But that’s not certain.  One thing everyone agrees must happen is the extension of
the payroll tax cut; negotiations are just under way. Public
furor and the partisan advantage to be gained by making an issue
of Romney’s tax treatment all but ensure that ending the
carried-interest provision will at least be a part of those
discussions.  Should that fail,  Senate Democrats  are likely to force a
vote on a stand-alone bill, and this time Schumer has already
declared his support.  Filibuster Obstacle  There remains the obstacle of the filibuster. That’s
ultimately what blocked reform in 2010, when Democrats in the
House and Senate had finally agreed on a compromise.  “The private equity people would have gotten a good
hosing,” says John L. Buckley, a professor of tax law at
 Georgetown University  who was the chief Democratic counsel on
the House Ways and Means Committee at the time.  Still, high-profile events have a way of seizing attention
and concentrating efforts in Congress. Private equity didn’t
even register as a Washington concern until 2007 when Stephen A. Schwarzman, the billionaire co-founder of Blackstone Group,
threw himself a notoriously lavish 60th birthday party.  Soon afterward, Senators Chuck Grassley, an Iowa
Republican, and  Max Baucus , a Montana Democrat, appalled that
private equity partnerships like Blackstone could avoid
corporate taxes and still go public, introduced legislation to
stop them.  Now, Romney’s candidacy has again brought new scrutiny to
the world of private equity. It’s a good bet that, one way or
another, Congress will try to bring the party to an end.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joshua Green in Washington at 
 Jgreen120@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Josh Tyrangiel in New York at 
 jtyrangiel@bloomberg.net  