-- Romney to Make ‘Technical’ Changes to Financial Disclosures
-- B y   J o n a t h a n   D .   S a l a n t
-- 2012-01-27T00:43:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/romney-to-make-minor-technical-changes-to-his-financial-disclosure-form.html
Former Massachusetts Governor Mitt Romney will file “minor technical amendments” to his financial
disclosure form, including listing interest from a now-closed
Swiss bank account, a spokeswoman for the Republican
presidential candidate said today.  The form had reported that Romney and his wife, Ann, had a
net worth of as much as $250 million,  “Any document with this level of complexity and detail is
bound to have a few trivial inadvertent issues,” Romney
spokeswoman Andrea Saul, said in a statement. “We are in the
process of putting together some minor technical amendments,
which will not alter the overall picture of Governor and Mrs.
Romney’s finances as disclosed in August.”  A spokeswoman for the  Democratic National Committee ,
Melanie Roussell, wondered what else was missing from Romney’s
forms. He should “release returns for every year he filed a
financial disclosure so we can see what else he has been trying
to hide from voters,” she said.  At least 23 funds and partnerships in the 2010 tax returns
were either missing or listed differently in Romney’s financial
disclosure form, the Los Angeles Times reported. Many of the
funds were affiliated with Bain Capital LLC, the Boston-based
private equity firm that Romney founded, the newspaper reported.  Romney’s Assets  Romney reported assets of $190 million to $250 million on
the personal financial disclosure form. Candidates can disclose
their holdings in broad ranges.  Romney’s 2010 tax return released earlier this week showed
he paid an effective tax rate of 13.9 percent on income of $21.6
million. It also showed that blind trusts for Romney and his
wife invested in an array of funds in tax-favored jurisdictions,
including the  Cayman Islands .  Republican rival  Newt Gingrich , the former U.S. House
speaker, criticized Romney’s holdings today at a rally in Mount
Dora,  Florida .  “We’re not going to beat  Barack Obama  with someone who
owns Swiss bank accounts, Cayman Island accounts,” Gingrich
said.  Saul, in response, said it was “puzzling to see Speaker
Gingrich and his supporters continue their attacks on free
enterprise.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan D. Salant in Jacksonville, Florida at   jsalant@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net . 