-- Romney Stronger Obama Foe Than Gingrich, Poll Shows
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   D o d g e
-- 2012-01-26T11:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/romney-stronger-obama-foe-than-gingrich-in-florida-poll-shows.html
Mitt Romney  fares better than
Republican rival  Newt Gingrich  in a matchup against President
Barack Obama among registered voters in the swing state of
 Florida , a Quinnipiac University poll shows.  Romney and Obama are tied in the Florida survey, each with
45 percent, while the president leads Gingrich, 50 percent to 39
percent.  The poll, released today, bolsters Romney’s argument that
he is the most electable candidate among the Republican
presidential contenders as Florida’s Jan. 31 primary approaches.  Independent voters are the key to Romney’s stronger showing
against Obama in the poll. Romney is backed by 42 percent of
Florida’s non-aligned voters to 41 percent for Obama, while the
president leads Gingrich among this bloc, 50 percent to 33
percent, according to the survey.  “At least in Florida and at least at this point in the
campaign, the data indicates that Governor Mitt Romney is
clearly the stronger Republican candidate against President
 Barack Obama ,” Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the
Quinnipiac University Polling Institute in Hamden,  Connecticut ,
said in a statement.  The survey was conducted Jan. 19-23, ending the day before
Obama’s State of the Union address.  Poll for Primary  A Quinnipiac poll of likely primary voters taken over the
same period showed a virtual dead heat between the two top
Republicans: Romney had 36 percent support, Gingrich 34 percent.  The survey showed Gingrich benefiting from momentum
following his 12-point win over Romney in South Carolina’s Jan.
21 primary. Gingrich led Romney by 6 points among voters polled
after the South Carolina contest, while Romney led by 11 points
among voters surveyed before.  Former Pennsylvania U.S. Senator  Rick Santorum  ran third in
the primary poll with 13 percent, followed by U.S.
Representative  Ron Paul  of  Texas  with 10 percent.  In the survey focused on the general election, both
Santorum and Paul run slightly better against Obama than
Gingrich. Obama leads Santorum, 49 percent to 40 percent.
Against Paul, the president is backed by 47 percent, to 39
percent for the Texan.  Florida, with 29 electoral votes, is viewed by both parties
as a central battleground in November’s general election. In the
last four presidential elections, each party has carried it
twice.  Obama won the state by 3 percentage points in 2008. Then-
Texas Governor George W. Bush’s 537-vote victory in the state
after a prolonged recount in 2000 won him the White House over
Democrat  Al Gore  in 2000.  The poll of 1,518 registered voters gauging general
election matchups has a margin of error of plus or minus 2.5
percentage points. The error margin for the survey focused on
the primary is plus or minus 4 points.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Dodge in Washington at 
 cdodge1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jeanne Cummings at 
 jcummings21@bloomberg.net  