-- Romney Tax Break Rejected as Welfare for Rich in Investor Poll
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/romney-tax-break-rejected-as-welfare-for-rich-in-investor-poll.html
Most international investors say a
tax break allowing private equity and hedge-fund executives to
pay lower tax rates than many average Americans isn’t warranted,
according to a Bloomberg survey.  As the release of Republican presidential candidate  Mitt Romney ’s 2010 tax return heats up debate over a 15 percent top
rate on so-called carried interest, two-thirds of those surveyed
in the Bloomberg Global Poll say the tax break is unjustified.
The lower levy helped Romney, former head of Bain Capital LLC,
pay an effective rate of 13.9 percent on $21.6 million of
income, when the top income tax rate is 35 percent.  Jonathan Sadowsky, chief investment officer at Vaca Creek
Asset Management LLC in  San Francisco , said he favors
eliminating the break because he’s concerned about government
deficit spending.  “I’m extremely worried about the  debt ,” he said.
“Somewhere down the line, people are going to stop lending us
money.”  About $7.4 million, more than one-third of Romney’s 2010
income, was from carried interest, which is the share of profits
that make up most of the compensation for partners in private
equity firms,  hedge funds  and real estate developments. Those
fees are taxed as  capital gains  rather than ordinary income.  Sixty-six percent of poll respondents worldwide said the
break isn’t justified, compared with 21 percent who said it is
and 13 percent who said they had “no idea.” Among those living
in the U.S., 67 percent said the lower rate isn’t justified,
versus 27 percent who said it is. The Jan. 23-24 poll of 1,209
investors, analysts and traders from around the world has a
margin of error of plus or minus 2.8 percentage points.  Economic Fairness  The survey bolsters the position of Democrats who have
pushed for years to eliminate the special treatment of carried
interest. Romney’s use of the break has renewed scrutiny as
President  Barack Obama  makes economic fairness a theme in his
re-election campaign and studies show that  income inequality  has
grown dramatically over the past quarter-century.  Democrats have won high-profile allies on the issue,
including billionaire  Warren Buffett , Blackstone Group LP co-
founder  Pete Peterson  and New York City Mayor  Michael Bloomberg ,
founder and majority owner of Bloomberg News parent Bloomberg
LP. Obama invited Buffett’s secretary to the Jan. 24 State of
the Union address to highlight the  Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) 
chairman’s comments that he shouldn’t pay a lower tax rate than
his employees.  Buffett Rule  In the State of the Union speech, Obama outlined a so-
called Buffett Rule that would require people making $1 million
or more to pay at least 30 percent in taxes.  Democrats are pushing to use repeal of special treatment
for carried interest to help finance a payroll-tax break that
expires at the end of next month as well as to prevent $1
trillion in automatic spending cuts set to begin taking effect
at the end of the year. Republicans have blocked moves to raise
the carried-interest rate, saying it will hurt the recovering
economy.  Taxing carried interest as ordinary income would produce
about $22 billion over a decade, according to the nonpartisan
 Congressional Budget Office .  Gerhard Summerer, president of DZ Financial Markets LLC in
 New York , said the lower rate is nothing more than “welfare for
the rich,” saying the “average American citizen” gets no such
breaks. “No one is advocating confiscating anyone’s
possessions, but the fair taxation of income,” he said.  The revenue lost to the Treasury makes it more likely that
lawmakers, under pressure to reduce the  deficit , will have to
cut services to lower-income Americans, said Sadowsky.  ‘Misallocation of Capital’  “Who pays for that loss of revenue now that the government
is short?” Sadowsky said. “Yup, the lower and middle class. So
we have a misallocation of capital and resources from the poor
and middle class to the rich.”  The carried interest debate is getting mixed up with an
“entirely different” issue of “extremely wealthy people” who
are “paying extremely low tax rates, which doesn’t exactly sit
too well with a struggling economy,” said Andrew Paolillo, a
portfolio manager at Rocky Hill Advisors Inc. in Peabody,
 Massachusetts , who defended the lower tax rate.  “Carried interest from an investment in a fund is more
similar to simply buying shares of a stock than receiving a
salary,” he said in an e-mail. “It is earning money from money
previously invested, instead of earning money for services
rendered.”  ‘Scream Bloody Murder’  Christian Thwaites, president and chief executive officer
of Sentinel Investments in Montpelier, Vermont, scoffed at
complaints that a tax increase would be a blow to the private-
equity industry.  “I’m sure they’d scream bloody murder and say this is the
end of the world, but I just can’t believe it,” said Thwaites.
“There’s plenty of reasons to be in private equity other than
just the fact that you get a 20 percent tax improvement.” There
are “still going to be pretty decent returns available” even
if the tax rate is raised, he said.  Others said they don’t think it makes sense to treat
carried interest as anything other than income subject to
regular rates.  “It is used to pay bonuses to general partners, and I see
no reason why bonuses should not be treated as income,” said
Don Lindsey, chief investment officer for George  Washington 
University in Washington.  John Boland, co-founder of Maple Capital Management in
Montpelier,  Vermont , said “if it looks like a duck and quacks,
calling it a chicken does not change the fact it is duck, to
paraphrase  Ronald Reagan .”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at 
 bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  