-- Russia Reviews Eurobond Tax Rules as Claims Raise Concerns
-- B y   I l y a   A r k h i p o v   a n d   D e n i s   M a t e r n o v s k y
-- 2012-01-26T16:45:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/russia-reviews-eurobond-tax-rules-as-claims-raise-concern-shatalov-says.html
Russia’s  Finance Ministry  is holding
talks with issuers of foreign debt after the tax authorities
sought a levy from some Eurobond coupon payments, Deputy
Minister  Sergei Shatalov  said.  Coupon payments made to foreign debt holders through
offshore special purpose vehicles, known as SPVs, are taxable
under the current law, although the rules haven’t often been
enforced, Shatalov said today by phone. Applying a 20 percent
tax would add “certain risks” and make borrowing more
expensive, he said.  “All we are saying is there’s a law,” Shatalov said in
the interview. The Vedomosti newspaper earlier reported he’d
written a letter to the tax service about the application of the
law. “Maybe it’s not good, maybe it’s bad, maybe somebody
doesn’t like it, but it should be obeyed.”  OAO Transneft (TRNF) ,  Russia ’s oil pipeline operator, is
considering buying back its $4 billion of outstanding Eurobonds
within a year as authorities seek to tax the interest payments,
Igor Dyomin, a spokesman for the state-controlled company, said
by phone. The company received a claim from the Federal Tax
Service for more than 2 billion rubles ($66 million), which
hasn’t yet been “formalized,” according to Dyomin.  The yield on the company’s dollar bonds due 2018 fell 11
basis points to 4.639 percent, the lowest since Sept. 9,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Alter or Enforce  No decision has yet been made as the government considers
whether to alter or enforce the legislation, Shatalov said. The
issue shouldn’t hurt Russian corporate and bank Eurobond sales,
he said.  “We would like to discuss this topic as soon as
possible,” Shatalov said. There are “a few” banks and other
“reasonably large” companies that have received claims, he
said, without elaborating.  “If it ever happens in the proposed form though, it would
certainly affect the access of Russia’s corporate borrowers to
debt capital markets as the cost of borrowing for them would
increase by the amount of the withholding tax,” Maxim Miller,
an emerging-markets credit analyst at BNP Paribas SA in  London ,
and a former Fitch Ratings analyst, said by phone today.  BNP Paribas arranged the most non-ruble international bond
sales out of Russia last year, or 14 percent of the total, and
was picked by the Russian government to sell its next sovereign
offering.  Miller said he doesn’t believe the changes will be
implemented in the current form “given the amount of debt that
could be affected.”  Russian banks and companies have about $100 billion of
foreign bonds outstanding, Shatalov said.  “I would expect strong resistance with proper lobbying
efforts from the managers of most state corporations  as they
would likely to be among the worst affected,” Miller said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net ;
Denis Maternovsky in Moscow at 
 dmaternovsky@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Torrey Clark at 
 tclark8@bloomberg.net ;
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net ;
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  