-- Russia Not Likely to Cut Interest Rates as Inflation Slows
-- B y   L y u b o v   P r o n i n a   a n d   S c o t t   R o s e
-- 2012-01-26T09:26:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/russia-says-no-need-to-cut-rates-as-inflation-slows-to-4-7-.html
Russia ’s central bank isn’t likely
to lower  interest rates  next month while reining in the
inflation rate remains a priority, according to First Deputy
Chairman  Alexei Ulyukayev .  Rates will be cut when risks to economic growth outweigh
the need to slow inflation, Ulyukayev told reporters in Davos,
Switzerland. “At present, such a situation isn’t in sight.”  Consumer price growth slowed to annual rate of 4.7 percent,
Ulyukayev said, without specifying the period. That is less than
the record low of 5.5 percent set in July 2010 and the 6.1
percent rate in  December (RUCPIYOY) .  Russia, the world’s largest energy exporter, is seeing its
economy slow because of concern that  Europe ’s debt crisis will
hurt demand for exports. Industrial production in December fell
to the weakest level in more than two years.  “Inflation risks haven’t disappeared” even after price
growth slowed, Ulyukayev said. “The rate now is marvelous --4.7
percent from a year earlier, and it will drop a bit further.”  A check on inflation was the government’s delay of annual
increases to most rates for so-called natural monopolies, such
as public utilities, Ulyukayev said. The increases in July and
the statistical effect of comparing against Russia’s lower rate
in the second half of 2011 means there will be “strong
inflation pressure in the third and fourth quarters,” he said.  ‘Extremely Good’ Rate  Bank Rossii is targeting an inflation rate of no more than
6 percent this year and aims to reduce it further to no more
than 5 percent by 2014, according to a three-year plan on
monetary policy published last year.  Inflation will be “significantly below 1 percent” in
January from a month earlier, and probably at the level of 0.6
percent to 0.7 percent, Ulyukayev said. “That’s extremely
good.”  Policy makers are also still trying to determine how a
weakening of the ruble last year may feed through to inflation,
the central banker said. Bank Rossii had said the currency’s
depreciation might spur inflation in late 2011 as imports became
more expensive.  “We don’t entirely understand what will be the effect of
the weakening of the ruble that took place in the fall,”
Ulyukayev said.  The ruble strengthened 1.1 percent to 30.3732 per dollar at
1:22 p.m. in Moscow, the ninth day of advances and the longest
streak since March 2008. The ruble-denominated Micex Index of 30
stocks was 0.6 percent higher at 1,507.83.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lyubov Pronina in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 lpronina@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Rose in Moscow at 
 rrose10@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Brad Cook at 
 bcook7@bloomberg.net  