-- Russell D’Oench, Skadden Partner of New York Mayoral Lineage, Dies at 58
-- B y   L a u r e n c e   A r n o l d
-- 2012-01-26T02:01:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/russell-d-oench-skadden-partner-of-new-york-mayoral-lineage-dies-at-58.html
Russell G. D’Oench III, a partner at
Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP and a great-great-
grandson of William Russell Grace, the founder of W.R. Grace &
Co. and a mayor of  New York City  in the 19th century, has died.
He was 58.  He died Jan. 23, according to a death notice from Skadden.
The cause was complications related to treatment for cancer. A
colleague and friend, Ralph Arditi, said D’Oench resided in
 Manhattan  and died at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill
Cornell Medical Center.  Known as Toby, D’Oench in 1979 joined other young people
with inherited wealth to create the  North Star Fund , a New York
City community foundation that supports “grassroots groups
leading the movement for equality, economic justice and peace,”
according to its website. He served as the foundation’s
executive director until 1983.  “I was thinking about what to do with the money I had,”
D’Oench told the  New York  Times in 1979. “I was in a position
to give it away, and I didn’t want to give it to those things
that I just happened to run into.”  His inherited wealth came at least in part through William Grace, his father’s great-grandfather, who was elected New York
City’s first Catholic mayor in 1880 and re-elected in 1884 to a
second term, during which he accepted the Statue of Liberty as a
gift from  France .  Grace’s Estate  The  company  that Grace, an Irish emigre, founded in 1854 in
 Peru  and later moved to New York became a leading international
merchant, shipping and finance business. At his death in 1904,
according to a Times story, he left an estate estimated at $25
million, or about $600 million today. (Besieged by asbestos-
related lawsuits,  W.R. Grace (GRA) , which left shipping in 1969 and
now focuses on specialty chemicals, filed for  bankruptcy
protection  in 2001.)  On D’Oench’s maternal side, he was descended from Henry
Alexander Wise,  Virginia ’s governor from 1856 to 1860 and a
general in the Confederate army, and Jonathan Dickinson, who in
1746 co-founded and then became the  first president  of the
College of  New Jersey , now known as  Princeton University ,
according to his mother’s 1949 engagement announcement in the
Times.  Arditi, a Skadden partner and co-head of the firm’s
Financial Institutions Group, said D’Oench “never in any way
advertised” his elite lineage.  “I doubt even a handful of people here knew about it,”
Arditi said. “He was a very reserved and modest person, in the
best sense.”  M&A Lawyer  At Skadden, the sixth-largest U.S. law firm, D’Oench was a
partner in the Financial Institutions Group, handling matters
including mergers, acquisitions and equity offerings,  according
to  the New York-based firm, which called him “an extraordinary
lawyer whose breadth of skills enabled him to do most
anything.” He retired this month.  D’Oench remained committed to helping New York City’s have-
nots even as he found a home at one of Wall Street’s most
powerful law firms, his older brother said in an interview.  “He probably needed to find a better way to earn a living,
and he fell in love with the law,” said the brother,  Peter
D’Oench , a television reporter for CBS4 News in Miami.  Russell Grace D’Oench III was born on Nov. 16, 1953. He was
one of four children of Russell “Derry” D’Oench, editor and
co-owner of The Middletown Press newspaper in  Connecticut  from
1959 to 1991, and the former Ellen Gates, known as “Puffin,”
who taught at  Wesleyan University  in Middletown and was curator
of its Davison Art Center.  Honoring Abolitionist  After graduating from  Wesleyan  in 1977, D’Oench lived in a
black township in  South Africa  and raised money for a library
there, according to the 1979 Times story. Back in the U.S., he
studied the workings of the Haymarket People’s Fund, one of the
early charitable outlets for what the Times called the
“reluctant wealthy” to pool their money for social change.  D’Oench then teamed with a few other people to create the
North Star Fund -- named for the antislavery newspaper founded
in 1847 by abolitionist leader Frederick Douglass.  After graduating from  Columbia Law School  in 1992, he was a
clerk for U.S. District Judge Eugene Nickerson before going into
private practice. He joined Skadden’s New York office from
Debevoise & Plimpton LLP in March 2000.  He is survived by his wife, Tani, daughter, Miye, and son,
Robin, according to the firm.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Laurence Arnold in Washington at 
 larnold4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Charles W. Stevens at 
 cstevens@bloomberg.net  