-- Russia Pledges to Block UN Resolution Calling for Syria’s Assad to Quit
-- B y   H e n r y   M e y e r
-- 2012-01-26T08:49:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/russia-pledges-to-veto-any-un-call-for-assad-to-quit-as-syria-s-president.html
Russia  vowed to block any United
Nations Security Council resolution that calls for Syrian
President Bashar al-Assad to relinquish power.  Such demands “will simply never get approval,” Alexander Lukashevich, a Foreign Ministry spokesman, said by telephone
from Moscow today. “This should be a matter for dialogue
between the Syrians themselves and shouldn’t be imposed through
a resolution.”  Arab and Western nations are seeking to pass a UN
resolution supporting the Arab League’s call for Assad to step
down and facilitate a peaceful transfer of power. Russia, as a
permanent Security Council member, can veto any resolution.  Qatar, the U.K. and the U.S. are among countries seeking to
overcome Russian opposition to a change of regime in  Syria ,
where at least 5,000 people have been killed in the past 10
months during the crackdown on anti-government unrest, according
to the UN. Russia in October vetoed by a bid at the UN by the
European Union and the U.S. to condemn Assad and threaten
sanctions, arguing he needed time to implement promised
political changes  On Jan. 23, Syria rejected an Arab League proposal to form
a national unity government within two months to implement a
peaceful handover of power, describing it as a violation of its
sovereignty.  Gross Violations  The latest UN resolution proposal “condemns the continued
and gross violations of human rights and fundamental freedoms”
by Syrian authorities and calls for Assad to implement  Arab
League  resolutions for a “political transition,” according to
a copy of the document obtained by Bloomberg.  The Arab League, which has monitors in Syria, “should be
facilitating dialogue” between Assad and his opponents rather
than trying to impose a solution, Lukashevich said.  Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said yesterday his
country wouldn’t back UN decisions that endorsed unilateral
sanctions by Arab and Western states or opened the way for
foreign armed intervention in Syria.  Russia has been wary of any UN-backed use of military
action, such as the operation that eventually helped topple
Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi .  The U.S. has criticized Russia for blocking sanctions
against Syria and supplying weaponry to its Soviet-era ally.
Syria received a shipment of Russian ammunition this month and
has also signed a $550 million deal for 26 Yak-130 jet trainer
aircraft, according to the Kommersant newspaper.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Henry Meyer  in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  