-- Russia Demands Details Before Weighing Shtokman Gas Tax Breaks
-- B y   A n n a   S h i r y a e v s k a y a   a n d   I l y a   A r k h i p o v
-- 2012-01-26T20:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/russia-demands-details-before-weighing-shtokman-gas-tax-breaks.html
Russia ’s Finance Ministry hasn’t
started discussing tax breaks for the  OAO Gazprom (GAZP) -led Shtokman
venture two months before an investment deadline because the
operator hasn’t submitted profitability estimates.  “The tax breaks can only be considered within the
project’s economics,” Deputy Finance Minister Sergei Shatalov
said in a phone interview, reiterating comments he made in July.
“The economics of the project haven’t been demonstrated by
anyone.”  Gazprom and partners  Total SA (FP)  of France and Norway’s
 Statoil ASA (STL)  delayed making the final  investment decision  on the
technically challenging and expensive Arctic project from
December until the end of March. The venture wants exemptions
from extraction and export taxes, and French Prime Minister
 Francois Fillon  in November urged his Russian counterpart
 Vladimir Putin  to consider the proposal.  Pierre Nerguararian, head of Total E&P Russie, said in
September that the tax breaks are critical for the partners to
make a positive investment decision. The project in the Barents
Sea, which plans to supply gas by pipeline and tanker, has been
repeatedly delayed. Gazprom didn’t disclose the project’s costs.  While there are “no doubts” that the project will be
granted exemptions from the mineral extraction tax because the
conditions for field development are “complex,” other benefits
aren’t certain, Shatalov said in the interview yesterday. “It
isn’t clear where this gas will go, whether they will build a
pipeline, which markets they will supply. ‘‘What, how, no one
knows that.’’  Shale Gas Glut  Gazprom, Total and Statoil aim to start first gas
production at Shtokman in 2016 and produce liquefied natural gas
a year later. Shtokman initially targeted U.S. consumers, where
surging shale gas output has since removed the need for imports,
forcing the partners to review the project.  Sergei Kupriyanov, a Gazprom spokesman, didn’t reply to a
phone call and a text message seeking comments. Sergei
Vykhukholev, a spokesman for Zug, Switzerland-based Shtokman
Development AG, said he wasn’t immediately able to comment.  The  finance ministry  may discuss the tax breaks and make a
decision ‘‘if they bring all their calculations tomorrow,”
Shatalov said. “If they don’t submit anything by summer then we
won’t discuss by summer.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Anna Shiryaevskaya in Moscow at 
 ashiryaevska@bloomberg.net 
Ilya Arkhipov in Moscow at 
 iarkhipov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Will Kennedy at   wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  