-- Tampa Bay Buccaneers Make Rutgers’ Schiano Head Coach With Five-Year Deal
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s
-- 2012-01-26T21:42:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/rutgers-schiano-near-accord-to-become-buccaneers-head-coach-espn-reports.html
Greg Schiano is leaving  Rutgers
University  for the  Tampa Bay Buccaneers , becoming the first
college coach to jump to a leading position in the  National
Football League  this offseason.  Schiano, 45, and the Buccaneers agreed today on a five-year
deal, the team announced on its website. Financial details of
the agreement weren’t disclosed. He replaces Rahim Morris, who
was fired after a 4-12 season.  A native of Wyckoff,  New Jersey , Schiano leaves the school
as it tries to increase revenue to balance its intercollegiate
sports budget. The Rutgers athletic department’s $26.9 million
subsidy in fiscal 2010 was the most among the 53 public
universities in college football’s biggest conferences,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg News.  In 11 years with the Scarlet Knights, Schiano was 68-67,
leading the program to its first postseason bowl victory and a
No. 12 final national ranking in 2006, the highest ever for the
team. He was defensive coordinator for the University of Miami
in 1999 and 2000, building a defense that allowed a conference-
best 15.5 points a game and helped the Hurricanes finish No.2 in
the nation.  “He built and ran a pro-style program at Rutgers, and he’s
a defensive-minded coach whose teams have always been
characterized by toughness and a physical style of play,”  Tampa
Bay  General Manager Mark Dominik said on the team’s website.  Rutgers athletic department spokesman Jason Baum did not
return a voicemail seeking comment on the contractual details of
Schiano’s departure.  Schiano made $2.03 million, including bonuses, from Rutgers
in the fiscal year ended in June. His contract also got him an
$800,000 interest-free home loan from the school with $100,000
forgiven each year.  Big East Overhaul  Rutgers’s conference, the  Big East , is in the midst of an
overhaul. It lost three football members and added six others --
none from the six Bowl Championship Series leagues -- in the
past six months.  The Buccaneers fired Morris after losing their final 10
games and allowing a league-high 494 points. Tampa Bay, which is
scheduled to pick fifth in April’s NFL draft, has made the
playoffs twice since winning the  Super Bowl  at the end of the
2002 season.  In Schiano’s first five years at Rutgers, the Scarlet
Knights had one season with more than five wins. In his final
six seasons, the team reached the eight-win plateau five times,
and went undefeated in five bowl games.  Bowl Victory  That run included the 2006 season, when Schiano led Rutgers
to a school-record-tying 11 victories and won National Coach of
the Year honors. The team beat Kansas State in the Texas Bowl,
the program’s first postseason victory.  Schiano was 5-1 in bowl games, including a 27-13 victory
against Iowa State in the Pinstripe Bowl at Yankee Stadium last
month.  The Big East lost Pittsburgh, Syracuse and  West Virginia 
last year to other BCS conferences, and added Boise State and
San Diego State for football, and Southern Methodist,  Central
Florida  and Houston for all sports. This week Navy, previously
an independent, announced its intention to join for football,
which will bring the conference’s membership in that sport to 12
by 2015.  The league needed eight football members to retain its
guaranteed berth in one of the five BCS games, which pay the
most of the postseason bowl matchups.  Schiano was an assistant with  Penn State University , the
 Chicago Bears  of the NFL and Miami before being hired at
Rutgers. He and former Green Bay Packers coach Mike Sherman were
the two coaches invited for a second interview by the Bucs,
according to ESPN.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in New York at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  