-- Safe Gas Fracking Touted by Obama Disputed by Environmentalists
-- B y   M a r k   D r a j e m   a n d   K a t a r z y n a   K l i m a s i n s k a
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/safe-gas-fracking-touted-by-obama-disputed-by-environmentalists.html
President  Barack Obama ’s promotion
of fracking as a safe way to boost natural gas production is
disputed by environmentalists who say the government lacks tough
rules to safeguard air and water.  Groups such as Protecting Our Waters say hydraulic
fracturing -- in which a mix of water, sand and chemicals are
shot underground to break apart rock and free gas -- is tainting
drinking water and causing more pollution than is cut by the
cheap gas. The broad new federal legislation and regulation the
groups advocate would tangle up fracking in miles of red tape,
industry leaders counter.  “We’re disappointed in his enthusiasm for shale gas,”
Iris Marie Bloom, director of Protecting Our Waters in
Philadelphia, said in an interview. Obama “spoke about gas as
if it’s better for the environment, which it’s not.”  Bloom’s group is seeking a moratorium on fracking in
Pennsylvania, where companies such as  Chesapeake Energy Corp. (CHK) 
and  Talisman Energy Inc. (TLM)  have contributed to a drilling boom.  For the first time in a State of the Union address, Obama
on Jan. 24 offered detailed, broad praise for the development of
natural gas, and directed his administration to ensure its
continued production.  “The development of natural gas will create jobs and power
trucks and factories that are cleaner and cheaper, proving that
we don’t have to choose between our environment and our
economy,” Obama said. He said new rules would require
disclosure of chemicals used when fracking on federal lands; he
didn’t pledge other rules to ensure its safety.  Stocks Buoyed  Brian Uhlmer , head of equity research at Global Hunter
Securities LLC, said in a report yesterday that “Bafrack”
Obama  buoyed  energy  stocks  a day before his speech as word of
his embrace of gas circulated among traders.  The Standard & Poor’s 500 Oil and Gas Exploration and
Production Index of 16 companies climbed 5.1 percent this week
through yesterday.  Producers including  Marathon Oil Corp. (MRO) ,  Continental
Resources Inc (CLR) . and Exxon Mobil Corp. have expanded use of
fracking to penetrate geologic formations from  North Dakota  to
Pennsylvania overlooked for decades because the gas was
difficult to extract.  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  is the world’s largest
provider of hydraulic fracturing services, followed by companies
such as  Schlumberger Ltd. (SLB)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI)   The U.S. holds an estimated 2,214 trillion cubic feet of
gas, enough to meet domestic demand for more than a century at
current consumption rates, according to the Energy Department.
Fracking accounts for a third of the U.S. gas supply, up from 14
percent in 2009.  Limits Needed  Environmental groups are skeptical of that boom, saying new
federal rules are needed to govern how wells are drilled, limit
how fracking water is disposed and curb related air pollution.
They say the process of shooting large amounts of water and
chemicals into the ground can contaminate drinking water, and
cause earthquakes nearby.  Already the Environmental Protection Agency linked fracking
to polluted groundwater in Pavillion,  Wyoming , and has begun
delivering water in Dimock,  Pennsylvania , to residents who say
drilling by  Cabot Oil & Gas Corp.  contaminated their wells. An
EPA study of the issue is set to be completed in 2014.  “What we are very concerned about is the disconnect
between the aggressive nature with which the industry is moving
forward and the ability of the government” to put safeguards in
place,  Frances Beinecke , president of the Natural Resources
Defense Council in  New York , told reporters yesterday.  While Obama highlighted disclosure of the chemicals used in
fracking, “that’s only the tip of the iceberg,” she said.  Gas vs. Coal  While some activists such as Bloom advocate for a
moratorium, leaders such as  Michael Brune , executive director of
the  Sierra Club  in  San Francisco , say that cheap gas can be
better for the environment if it’s used to replace coal-burning
 power plants .  Still, fracking isn’t subject to laws for safe drinking
water and has exemptions under the Clean Water Act, and Congress
needs to end both exclusions, Brune said in an interview.
Getting lawmakers to act “is a problem,” he said.  Industry also has complaints. A raft of rulemakings from
the Obama administration threatens to crimp the gas boom just as
the president offers a full-throated defense, they say.  “We don’t see the same actions we see in the rhetoric,”
Lee Fuller, vice president for government relations at the
Independent Petroleum Association of America in  Washington , said
in an interview. Pending regulations “are creating at the
minimum red tape and delay,” and may shut fracking down in some
states or areas, he said.  ‘No Confidence’  After the preliminary report from Wyoming, industry “has
no confidence” that the larger EPA study will be fair, said
Erik Milito, director of upstream and industry operations at the
American Petroleum Institute in Washington, which represents
companies such as  Exxon Mobil Corp. (XOM)   “Given that the industry often disagrees with the Obama
administration on what is reasonable to protect the public
safety -- we think there could be disagreements and negative
headlines ahead,” Whitney Stanco, a Washington-based senior
policy analyst for Guggenheim Securities LLC in New York, said
in a report yesterday.  For industry, the possibility of further government rule
making remains. Environmentalists say it is happening now, as
fracking booms nationwide.  “President Obama showed he is misreading local sentiment
from communities overwhelmed in their David versus Goliath
battle against large drilling companies,” Dusty Horwitt, senior
counsel of the Environmental Working Group, said in an e-mail.
Drillers “under-regulated activities have jeopardized property
values and contaminated water supplies across the country.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mark Drajem in Washington at 
 mdrajem@bloomberg.net ;
Katarzyna Klimasinska in Washington at 
 kklimasinska@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jon Morgan at 
 jmorgan97@bloomberg.net  