-- Samsung Poised to Gain Share on $42 Billion Investment: Tech
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-01-26T08:42:54Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/samsung-poised-to-win-market-share-on-42-billion-capital-investment-tech.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930) ’s capital
expenditure dwarfs that of competitors and has helped make it
the world’s biggest maker of TVs, memory chips and flat-screen
panels. Record spending this year may further pressure rivals.  Samsung and its affiliates plan to spend 47.8 trillion won
($42 billion) this year on new product research and upgrading
plants, the  group  said this month. The Suwon, South Korea-based
company, which reports full-year  earnings  tomorrow, spent more
than  Sony Corp. (6758) ,  Intel Corp. (INTC)  and Cisco Systems Inc. combined in
2010, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  The spending spree will enable the chips and display
supplier to  Apple Inc.  and Sony to build on record sales last
year and boost profit that doubled in the five years to 2010.
That may leave competing makers, already mired in losses from a
glut of commodity chips, even farther behind in their quest to
diversify into the higher-margin specialty semiconductors for
phones and tablets that have made Samsung so successful.  “We have a Goliath in the technology industry,” said Kim Hyung Sik, a Seoul-based analyst at Taurus Investment Securities
Co. “The gap between Samsung and the laggards will keep
widening, particularly in memory chips.”  Earnings Forecast  Sales by Samsung Electronics, the biggest unit of  South
Korea ’s largest industrial group, were equal to 16 percent of
the nation’s gross domestic product, based on figures from the
company and the  Bank of Korea . The company’s fourth-quarter
profit probably rose to 3.99 trillion won from 3.42 trillion won
a year ago, according to the average of 28 analyst estimates
compiled by Bloomberg.  Samsung Electronics will spend as much as 40 trillion won
of the group’s total budget, said four analysts, including Young Park, a Hong Kong-based analyst at Woori Investment & Securities
Co. The semiconductor and  display businesses  will get the most,
they said.  The spending amid burgeoning sales and profit contrast with
Asian rivals including Japanese chipmaker  Elpida Memory Inc. (6665) ,
which was unprofitable for four straight quarters to September
and faces a deadline to repay debts. Makers of  dynamic random-
access memory , the most common chip in computers, lost a
combined $14 billion in the past three years, according to
Bloomberg calculations.  ‘Deep Pocket’  Sony (6758)  hasn’t made a profit selling TVs in the past seven
years. The Tokyo-based electronics maker is forecasting a fourth
consecutive companywide loss this year amid slumping TV demand
that’s prompted a restructuring of the business. Last month,
Sony agreed to quit a panel-making joint venture with Samsung.  “Samsung’s strategy is to take advantage of its deep
pocket and keep widening their lead over rivals,” said Im Jeong Jae, a Seoul-based  fund manager  at Shinhan BNP Paribas Asset
Management Co., which oversees about $28 billion.  LG Group, which includes  LG Electronics Inc. (066570)  and LG Display
Co., said Jan. 13 its companies would reduce expenditures by 15
percent this year, citing slowing consumer spending in the U.S.
and  Europe  as a potential risk.  Taiwan Semiconductor
Manufacturing Co. (TSM) , which competes with Samsung in contract
manufacturing of chips, said Jan. 18 it will decrease its
equipment budget to $6 billion this year from $7.3 billion.  Samsung v. Apple  In 2010, Samsung had $18.7 billion in capital expenditures,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg. In comparison,  Santa
Clara , California-based Intel  spent  $5.2 billion.  Apple spent $2 billion in the year ended in September 2010.
The Cupertino, California-based company, which more than doubled
first-quarter profit and had cash and investments of more than
$97 billion,  contracts  most of its manufacturing to other
companies, reducing the need for high capital expenditure.  Samsung  shares  gained 11 percent last year, compared with a
26 percent jump for Apple and a 53 percent slump for Sony.  Samsung, expected to detail its capital expenditure plan
tomorrow, should continue expanding investment and hiring to
maintain industry leadership even as the global economic growth
slows, Chairman Lee Kun Hee said this month.  Spending in the past has helped the company extend its
dominance.  Samsung’s share in the global handset market increased to
22.6 percent from 20.9 percent in the third quarter, while
market leader  Nokia OYJ (NOK1V) ’s share slipped to 27.3 percent from
32.3 percent, according to  Strategy Analytics . The Korean
company probably will pass Nokia in total mobile phone sales by
the end of this year, Taurus’s Kim said.  ‘Thrown in the Towel’  With the DRAM chip industry reeling from a glut and  falling
prices , Samsung is investing more in the semiconductor business
to diversify. Apple is Samsung’s biggest customer as well as the
biggest competitor in smartphones and tablet computers.  “The Japanese and Taiwanese memory-chip companies have
almost thrown in the towel,” Shinhan BNP Paribas’s Im said.
“In phones, Samsung and Apple’s dominance will continue.”  Samsung may almost double spending on its logic-chip
business, which oversees manufacturing of Apple-designed A4 and
 A5 processors  under an exclusive contract, to a record 8
trillion won this year, according to Hanwha Securities Co. and
 Korea  Investment & Securities Co.  The Korean company has profitably diversified into
specialty chips for smartphones, tablet devices and servers.
Samsung sells twice as many specialty DRAM chips, where margins
are higher, as commoditized chips used in PCs, Shinhan
Investment Corp. said in a report in October.  In other businesses, Samsung may spend as much as 7
trillion won to expand production of OLED, or organic light-
emitting diode, displays, Tong Yang’s Park said. Demand for
screens using the technology is increasing, driven by use in
smartphones including the  Galaxy  devices.  “The most important thing in this industry is to invest
early so you can gain dominance and build an entry barrier
against competitors,” Park said. “Samsung can do that because
they have the financial firepower.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  