-- Samsung Rises to Record as Sales of Smartphones Surge
-- B y   J u n   Y a n g
-- 2012-01-27T09:36:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/samsung-profit-rises-as-surging-smartphone-sales-mask-slump-in-lcd-panels.html
Samsung Electronics Co. (005930)  jumped to a
record in Seoul trading after surging smartphone sales boosted
profit and helped Asia’s largest consumer-electronics company 
keep pace with  Apple Inc. (AAPL)   Fourth-quarter  net income  rose 17 percent to 4 trillion won
($3.6 billion), from 3.42 trillion won a year earlier, the
Suwon, South Korea-based company said in a statement today. The
average of 28 analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg was 3.99
trillion won. Sales rose 13 percent to 47.3 trillion won, in
line with a preliminary estimate announced Jan. 6.  Samsung shipped more smartphones last year than Apple did
iPhones, with the popularity of its Galaxy models helping the
Korean company sell a record 300 million handsets. Samsung,
whose parent group plans a record investment this year, is
introducing more phones and tablet computers to cushion slumping
profits at its liquid-crystal display business amid a global
economic slowdown.  “They have such a good product line from top to bottom,”
said Kim Chang Yeul, a Seoul-based analyst at Mirae Asset
Securities. “The economic slowdown won’t be much of an issue
for their phone sales. Only Samsung and Apple phones are selling
these days.”  Smartphone Sales  Operating profit  was 5.3 trillion won, in line with the
company’s preliminary estimate of 5.2 trillion won. Full-year
net income fell 15 percent to 13.7 trillion won, while sales
climbed 6.7 percent to a record 165 trillion won.  Samsung rose 1.1 percent to a record 1,125,000 won at the
close in Seoul trading, and was the  main contributor  to the
benchmark  Kospi index (KOSPI) ’s 0.4 percent gain. The stock has gained
13 percent in the past 12 months, while the Kospi has lost 7.1
percent.  Samsung was the top smartphone seller in 2011, more than
doubling its market share to 19.9 percent, though Apple sold
more handsets in the fourth quarter,  Strategy Analytics  said
today.  Apple had a 19 percent share last year after selling 37
million iPhones in the three months ending in December, compared
with Samsung’s 36.5 million. Apple said this week that its
quarterly profit more than doubled to $13.1 billion.  Sales Quadrupled  Samsung’s smartphone sales in 2011 more than quadrupled
from the year before, according to Boston-based Strategy
Analytics, generating record operating profit and revenue at the
telecommunications division. Profit at the business jumped 79
percent to 2.64 trillion won in the fourth quarter.  The company plans to offer more phones and tablets this
year and is reviewing “various options” for deciding when to
unveil the next version of its best-selling Galaxy phone, Lee Young Hee, a senior vice president at the telecommunications
business, said on a conference call today.  Sales of the Galaxy S II, which began in May, surpassed 10
million units quicker than any other Samsung mobile device, the
company said in December. The phones use Google Inc.’s Android
operating system.  “In smartphones, the whole competition boils down to Apple
and Samsung now,” said Lee Jin Woo, a  fund manager  at Seoul-
based KTB Asset Management Co.  Capital Expenditures  Samsung will spend 25 trillion won this year in  capital
expenditures , including 15 trillion won in the chip business and
6.6 trillion won in the panel business, as it seeks to widen its
lead over rivals.  Profit at the semiconductor division rose 29 percent to
2.31 trillion won on sales of 9.17 trillion won. The unit’s
operating profit compares with the 1.6 trillion-won median of
the four analyst estimates.  “We have strong momentum going into 2012,” Robert Yi,
senior vice president for  investor relations , said today.  Samsung is faring better than its rivals amid an industry
downturn because of its diversification into specialty chips for
mobile devices, analysts said. Shipments of smartphone DRAM
probably more than doubled last year from 2010, according to an
October forecast by researcher IHS iSuppli.  The price of the benchmark  DDR3 2-gigabit DRAM  slumped by
51 percent last year amid slowing personal-computer sales,
according to data from Taipei-based Dramexchange Technology
Inc., operator of  Asia ’s largest spot market for semiconductors.  Panel Losses  PC shipments in the U.S. declined for the first time in a
decade last year, research firm IDC said Jan. 11.  Samsung’s display division, which makes flat panels for TVs
and computer monitors, had an operating loss of 220 billion won,
compared with an operating profit of 100 billion won a year
earlier, the company said. Revenue climbed 19 percent to 8.55
trillion won.  The average selling price of Samsung’s flat-screen panels
dropped 21 percent in 2011 amid stagnating TV sales, according
to an estimate from Dongbu Securities.  Global LCD TV shipments probably were 206 million units
last year, falling short of an earlier projection of 211 million
units,  according to  research company DisplaySearch. LG Display
Co., Samsung’s closest competitor in flat panels, today reported
a fourth-quarter loss of 6.3 billion won.  Samsung bought Sony Corp.’s stake in their LCD-making
venture, which was formed in 2004, for 1.08 trillion won in
cash, the South Korean company said in December. Sony has
predicted an eighth consecutive year of losses from TVs.  Samsung’s TV-making unit had an operating profit of 570
billion won, compared with a loss of 200 billion won a year
earlier, helped by high-end models featuring 3-D functionality
and Web-based services, the company said. Sales rose to 16.96
trillion won from 16.33 trillion won.  The company unveiled new sets controlled by voice commands
and hand gestures at the  Consumer Electronics Show  in  Las Vegas 
this month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jun Yang in Seoul at 
 jyang180@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Tighe at 
 mtighe4@bloomberg.net  