-- Socialist Hollande Pledges Tax Breaks End, Eased Pension Measure
-- B y   H e l e n e   F o u q u e t   a n d   M a r k   D e e n
-- 2012-01-26T16:22:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/sarkozy-rival-hollande-may-seek-bank-split-in-election-platform.html
Francois Hollande , the Socialist
candidate seeking to unseat President  Nicolas Sarkozy , pledged
to ease the government’s pension overhaul and increase taxes to
pay for the reversal.  Hollande, 57, the frontrunner in the presidential campaign,
advocated forcing banks to separate retail and investment
operations. He’ll raise levies on the wealthy to finance an
expansion of the civil service while respecting budget-cutting
commitments. The measures were among 60 in a platform published
today.  “We must make an effort for more fairness and to rein in
the financial industry,” Hollande  said  in Paris. “We will
separate the speculative sector from the credit sector.”  Hollande’s address in Paris came four days after his first
major campaign speech in which he said the finance industry, and
not Sarkozy, was his main rival.  Europe ’s sovereign debt crisis
has plunged the region into an economic slump.  Hollande, who advocates the creation of a public European
credit-rating company, is also at odds with German Chancellor
 Angela Merkel  on measures to ease the region’s financial crisis.
He would expand the euro-area bailout fund and seek a greater
role for the  European Central Bank . He also aims to overhaul a
Dec. 9 accord for greater fiscal integration and will push for
jointly sold euro bonds.  Taxes, Spending  The socialist candidate said he would increase spending by
20 billion euros ($26 billion) over a five-year mandate. That
would be financed by repealing 29 billion euros of tax breaks,
lifting tax receipts to 46.9 percent of gross domestic product
in 2017 from 45.1 percent this year.  France ’s national statistics office, Insee, says Europe’s
second-largest economy may have entered a recession and may see
61,000 job losses in the first half. According to the
 International Monetary Fund , France’s economy may grow by no
more than 0.2 percent this year.  The first round of elections will be April 22, with the top
two candidates competing in a decisive contest on May 6.
Hollande’s lead over Sarkozy is widening, a CSA poll for free
 daily 20 minutes , BFM TV and RMC radio newspaper and broadcaster
BFM showed today. He has the support of 31 percent in the first
round, 6 points ahead of Sarkozy and up from 3 points a month
ago, CSA said. His second-round lead is now 20 points, at 60
percent, up from 14 points.  Socialists  France hasn’t had a Socialist president since  Francois Mitterrand ’s second term ended in 1995. Hollande won the party’s
nomination after  Dominique Strauss-Kahn  declined to run in the
wake of his May 2011 arrest in  New York  on sexual-assault
charges that were subsequently dropped.  Hollande is holding to Sarkozy’s forecasts on growth and
the  budget deficit , seeing a budget shortfall of 4.5 percent of
GDP this year, 3 percent next year and 2.3 percent in 2014. His
deficit target is based on estimated expansions of 0.5 percent
this year, 1.7 percent for 2013 and 2 percent in 2014.  Hollande promised that those who started work at a young
age would be allowed to retire before the new legal minimum age
of 62, if they have worked the required 41 years and 6 months.
To pay for it, he’ll raise labor taxes for companies and workers
by 0.1 percent.  Sarkozy pushed through an increase in the  retirement age  in
2010 to sustain France’s top credit rating, which was cut by
Standard & Poor’s this month.  French bonds fell after Hollande’s remarks, with the 10-
year yield rising as much as 5 basis points to 3.15 percent
before paring to 3.10 percent.  Sarkozy’s Side  “The danger is the Socialist program is totally focused on
tax increases and no courageous decisions for France,” Jean- Francois Cope, head of Sarkozy’s Union for a Popular Movement
party, said in an interview in Davos,  Switzerland , today. “We
have to keep going with structural reforms.”  Like Sarkozy, Hollande wants to expand tax breaks for
companies spending on research and development, state-directed
investments in industry and a tax on financial transactions.
Both politicians have pledged to cut deficits and balance the
budget by late 2017 or early 2018. France’s deficit was about
5.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2011.  France’s top financial regulator said today in a conference
in Paris that a tax on financial transactions, which is also
advocated Sarkozy, would weaken the country’s position in the
asset-management industry.  “Markets may sanction the lack of structural reform,”
said Pierre-Olivier Beffy, chief economist at Exane  BNP Paribas. (BNP) 
“The program has investment aspects but does not tackle the
cost competitiveness dimension of French industry.”  Response  Sarkozy, who has yet to declare his intention to seek a
second term, plans to unveil an economic plan on Jan. 29. The
president last week presented 430 million euros of measures to
promote  job creation  and said he’ll make more structural
proposals during his televised program.  Hollande and Sarkozy differ on issues such as energy,
immigration,  wealth tax  and the pension regime. Hollande wants
to cut the share of nuclear power in France’s energy supply to
50 percent in 2025 from about 75 percent now, a measure Sarkozy
says will raise electricity prices and cost thousands of jobs.  Hollande would undo a government measure of not replacing
one in two retiring civil servants while promising not to
increase the number of public workers.  “All the presented measures will fully funded for the
recovery of public finances. I promise only what I can do no
more no less,” he said in today’s press conference.  He said he’ll bring home French troops from  Afghanistan  by
the end of the year. Sarkozy has said he will stick to the NATO
timetable of a 2014 pullout.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Helene Fouquet in Paris at 
 hfouquet1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  