-- Saudi Arabia’s Prince Turki Calls Reform ‘Work in Progress’
-- B y   M a r y a m   N e m a z e e   a n d   A n t h o n y   D i P a o l a
-- 2012-01-26T13:45:16Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/saudi-arabia-s-prince-turki-says-reforms-are-work-in-progress-.html
Saudi Arabian modernization is “a
work in progress” and the country needs to expand education and
employment for its youth as it diversifies the economy, Prince
Turki Al-Faisal said.  The country is learning from other states, Prince Turki, a
former ambassador to the U.S., said in a Bloomberg Television
interview today at the  World Economic Forum  in Davos,
 Switzerland . The need to modernize “is recognized as such” by
the nation’s leadership, he said, adding that King Abdullah last
year moved to extend voting rights to women. “We still need to
go forward,” he said.  Saudi Arabia , the world’s largest oil exporter, aims to
diversify its economy away from a reliance on crude sales by
developing industries such as petrochemicals and manufacturing
to create jobs for its 28 million residents.  “We have put a lot of money in mineral resources,” Prince
Turki said. Infrastructure projects, such as railroads that
transport raw materials across the Arabian Peninsula, aim to
create jobs and help build new industries, he said.  Unemployment among youth in the  Middle East  may
“inevitably” lead to unrest as people “seek other ways of
finding a livelihood, whether it is criminality, whether it is
uprisings,” Prince Turki said. That makes expanding education
in the kingdom “essential,” he said.  In Flux  A year after the start of political uprisings that swept
rulers from power in Arab states from  Tunisia  to  Egypt , the
region is still “in flux,” Prince Turki said. Transitions in
Tunisia and Egypt will “be smoother than people expect.”  In neighboring  Bahrain , conflict broke out as members of
the Shiite Muslim majority demanded a more representative
government and greater rights from the country’s Sunni Muslim
rulers. Any solution to tension in Bahrain must be resolved
through negotiation, Prince Turki said.  He also called on the U.S. and  Iran  to avoid conflict in
the Persian Gulf. The U.S. and its European allies have imposed
sanctions on Iran to pressure the country to give up a nuclear
program the West says may be used to create weapons. Iran says
the program is for civilian use.  Both sides need to “cool things down” and avoid closing
the Strait of Hormuz, he said. Iran threatened to stop traffic
in the shipping channel through which about a fifth of global
oil supply passes daily.  “Not just the West and Iran, but the rest of the world
community, have to get their act together and prevent any
escalating moves,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Maryam Nemazee in Davos at 
 mnemazee@bloomberg.net ;
Anthony DiPaola in Dubai at 
 adipaola@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net ;
 Stephen Voss  at   sev@bloomberg.net . 