-- SCA Adjusted Profit Tops Estimates, Sees Good Hygiene Growth
-- B y   K i m   M c L a u g h l i n
-- 2012-01-26T14:28:25Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/sca-adjusted-profit-tops-estimates-sees-good-hygiene-growth.html
Svenska Cellulosa AB (SCAA) ,  Europe ’s
biggest tissue maker, posted a smaller-than-expected fall in
fourth-quarter adjusted profit and said it sees good demand for
its hygiene products, sending shares to their highest level in
almost four years.  Net income fell 2 percent to 1.65 billion kronor ($244
million), adjusted for 5.29 billion kronor in items affecting
comparability, including a goodwill write-down of about 4
billion kronor for its remaining packaging assets. The average
in a Bloomberg  survey  of 5 analysts’ estimates was for adjusted
profit of 1.57 billion kronor.  “We’ve seen no significant effect” on demand from the
economy, Chief Executive Officer Jan Johansson told reporters by
phone today. “We see no effect like we did in 2008.”  Svenska Cellulosa, also known as SCA, is increasingly
moving into the hygiene business, a higher-margin sector than
paper and packaging. The maker of Tempo tissues and Libero
nursing pads on Jan. 17 agreed to sell most of its packaging
operations to  DS Smith Plc (SMDS)  for 1.1 billion euros ($1.45
billion). Some 80 percent of SCA’s business will be in personal
care after the sale is finalized, and the company will use some
of the funds to continue acquiring hygiene businesses, Johansson
said then.  SCA shares traded 3.4 percent higher at 116.6 kronor at
3:26 p.m. in Stockholm, the biggest rise since Jan. 17, and the
stock’s highest price since April 2008.  Kimberly-Clark Corp., (KMB)  the maker of Kleenex tissues, on Jan.
24 reported an 18 percent drop in fourth-quarter profit and said
it expects difficult economic conditions this year, particularly
in developed markets amid low birth-rates and consumers opting
for cheaper brands.  SCA on Nov. 10 agreed to buy  Georgia-Pacific LLC’s (GP)  European
tissue operations from Koch Industries Inc. for 1.32 billion
euros to add scale and brands like Lotus.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kim McLaughlin in  Stockholm  at 
 kmclaughlin6@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net . 