-- Scene Last Night: Geeks, Dudes, Marriage Proposals for Cool Met Patrons
-- B y   A m a n d a   G o r d o n
-- 2012-01-26T14:58:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/scene-last-night-geeks-dudes-marriage-for-cool-met-patrons.html
Loving opera is “almost geeky,”
said jewelry designer Tina Tang.  Just how geeky became clear at the reception last night for
members of the  Metropolitan Opera’s Young Associates  group, a
program for patrons between the ages of 21 and 45.  “They’re 100 people in the pit, 60 to 70 people in the
choir, 7 or 8 leads,” said Ethan Litwin, a partner at Hughes
Hubbard & Reed LLP. “It is incredibly hard for all these
elements to come together. But when it happens, it’s
transcendent.”  Litwin has been coming to the Met since he was eight. “La
Traviata” was his first, then came a Poulenc opera starring
Catherine Malfitano.  “Governor Carey attended and his wife was wearing the most
amazing necklace of emeralds,” Litwin said. “I remember it.”  As for last night’s event, the Met Opera press office had
cautioned that it would be different from the “fancy galas”
attended by Met Opera board members such as Mercedes Bass,  Bruce Kovner  and Ann Ziff.  The Revlon Bar, for example, would only be serving wine and
Amstel Light, Met Opera press manager Sam Neuman had written in
an e-mail.  As it turned out, there were also trout canapes.  The crowd was swell enough.  With Grandma  World Monuments Fund  senior program associate Pauline
Eveillard, whose parents are financial-industry veterans Jean- Marie Eveillard and Betty Eveillard, arrived with Douglas Gould,
a restructuring associate at Kirkland & Ellis LLP.  “I used to go to the opera with my grandma,” Gould said
as he admired his date.  Andrew Urbanski, a vice president at  Morgan Stanley (MUS) ,
discovered the Met through a phone solicitation.  “I started off in the business cold calling,” Urbanski
said. “So I took pity on this guy. Fortunately I was having a
good month, so I said, ‘I’m in.’”  The first opera Urbanski saw was “ La Boheme ,” “because
I’d seen ‘Rent’ twice,” he said.  Members of the Young Associates pay from $600 to $2,500
annually. Perks include receptions before five performances a
year (last night’s was the Baroque pastiche “Enchanted
Island”), as well as behind-the-scenes tours and talks. The
group has 300 households on its roster, said Naomi Weinstock,
assistant director of patron program and membership.  Marriage Proposal  Weinstock occasionally makes special arrangements for
members, as when Matt Enos decided he wanted to propose marriage
at a performance of “Romeo and Juliet.”  “They set up a table for us during intermission and served
Champagne,” Enos, vice president of global operations at
 Underscore Marketing LLC , said.  His girlfriend, who’d studied classical voice in college,
said yes. They were married in October.  “I never thought I’d meet a dude who liked going to the
opera,” said Kristina Enos, a marketing associate at the
accounting firm  Friedman LLP (0119532D) .  It took some getting used to.  “I was bummed to learn that most people die at the end,”
Enos said.  (Amanda Gordon is a writer and photographer for Muse, the
arts and leisure section of Bloomberg News. Any opinions
expressed are her own.)  To contact the writer on this story:
Amanda Gordon in  New York  at  agordon01@bloomberg.net  or on
Twitter at @amandagordon.  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 