-- Senate Vote Will Allow $1.2 Trillion Debt-Limit Increase
-- B y   B r i a n   F a l e r
-- 2012-01-26T18:55:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/senate-set-to-clear-way-for-1-2-trillion-debt-limit-increase.html
The  U.S. Senate  voted to permit an
increase in the nation’s debt limit designed to be large enough
to accommodate borrowing through the November election.  The chamber today  voted  52-44 to kill a measure that would
have blocked a $1.2 trillion increase -- to $16.394 trillion --
in the legal cap on borrowing. Under a convoluted agreement
among lawmakers, that allows the  debt ceiling  to rise
automatically without additional government action.  The maneuver was aimed at giving Republicans the chance to
show their opposition to  deficit  spending without risking a
default. “We should be working together to lower the debt, not
having votes to increase it,” said Senate Minority Leader  Mitch McConnell , a Kentucky Republican.  The vote was required by a budget agreement last year in
which Republicans agreed to give President  Barack Obama  the
power to unilaterally raise the debt ceiling so long as they
didn’t have to pass it. The House passed the measure, called a
resolution of disapproval, by a 239-176 vote last week.  Senator  Dick Durbin , the chamber’s deputy Democratic
leader, complained that many of the Republicans opposing the
debt increase supported the spending initiatives that made
lifting the borrowing cap necessary.  “Don’t vote for the spending if you won’t vote for the
borrowing because we know now they are linked together -- they
are one in the same,” said Durbin, of  Illinois .  The Treasury Department has said it expects no need for
another increase in the debt limit until after the November
election, though it’s impossible to say for certain because  tax
revenue  can vary widely with the strength of the economy. Last
year, the Treasury Department revised its deadline for lifting
the cap when revenue proved stronger than anticipated.  Even if the government approaches the limit before voters
head to the polls, the administration will have accounting moves
it can use to stave off default and postpone the next debt-limit
vote until a post-election “lame-duck” session of Congress.  The measure is H.J. Res. 98.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Brian Faler in Washington at   bfaler@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for
this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net ;
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  