-- Serb Government, U.S. Steel to Meet on Future of Local Unit
-- B y   G o r d a n a   F i l i p o v i c
-- 2012-01-26T16:11:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/serbian-government-u-s-steel-to-meet-on-future-of-local-unit.html
United States Steel Corp. (X)  scheduled
meetings with Serbian government officials as it explores “all
options” in the Balkan country with regard to the future of its
local unit.  The meeting, announced by Deputy Finance Minister Dusan
Nikezic in a live talk show broadcast by Belgrade TV channel B92
late last night, will focus on various options aimed at
“maintaining production” in the town of Smederevo where as
many as 5,000 jobs could be at risk if U.S. Steel closes.  “The economic conditions in  Europe  are very difficult,
especially in Southern Europe where our U.S. Steel Serbia assets
are located,” U.S. Steel Serbia said in an e-mailed statement
today. “Our financial results in Serbia have been unacceptable
and we are exploring all options to improve our situation.”  The Pittsburgh-based steelmaker said on Oct. 25 its
operations in  Serbia  faced “particular challenges,” including
a weaker-than-expected recovery in the Balkan region and
pressure from lower-priced imports, while the economic outlook
meant the company had no plans to restart one furnace.  The company, which has already shortened the working week
to four days as part of cost-cutting, may take a decision by the
end of the month about its future. The government has created a
commission to work with U.S. Steel and come up with proposals,
spokesman Milivoje Mihajlovic said in Belgrade.  Prime Minister Mirko Cvetkovic’s cabinet, facing elections
by early May this year, is eager to avoid any further job losses
after unemployment rose by 1.5 percentage points in six months
to 23.7 percent in October.  Buyback Discussions  Buying the steelworks back from U.S. Steel eight years
later will be discussed, Nikezic said and rejected calls from
the Serbian Chamber of Commerce to stay away and let U.S. Steel
find a buyer for its business.  U.S. Steel bought Serbia’s sole Sartid steelworks for $23
million in 2003, committing $150 million in investments through
2006 and pledging to more than triple steel output to 2.2
million tons during the same period.  It has since turned into a key importer and exporter,
accounting for almost 10 percent of Serbia’s exports.  Saving the steelworks from closure doesn’t mean the
government “would stay there as an owner for long,” Nikezic
said and added that the state would only help overcome problems
“until a new strategic buyer is found.”  The government would use cash set aside in the budget for
subsidies to save the steelmaker. It also wants to avoid a rise
in steel imports of as much as 30 percent if the U.S. company
decides to close its unit in Serbia, Nikezic said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Gordana Filipovic in Belgrade at 
 gfilipovic@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  