-- Severe Drop in Demand Threatens Climate Action, Auditors Say
-- B y   M a t h e w   C a r r
-- 2012-01-26T12:34:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/severe-drop-in-demand-threatens-climate-action-auditors-say.html
A “severe” drop in demand for
greenhouse gas audit firms threatens the world’s ability to
protect the climate, said  a lobby group  for the companies that
measure United Nations-overseen emissions reductions.  The number of new projects entering the Clean Development
Mechanism is this month heading for its lowest level since July,
according to figures sent yesterday by the UN Framework
Convention on  Climate Change . The number of projects seeking
verification by the firms is 159 so far this month, with three
business days to go. That’s 28 percent less than the 221
projects entering the program last month. There were a record
276 in November.  Unless they are located in least-developed nations,
projects must be registered by the end of this year to be
eligible to sell emission credits to factories and power
stations in the European Union carbon market, the world’s
largest by traded volume.  The UN-overseen regulatory board of the mechanism is this
year reviewing the so-called CDM, the the biggest international
offsetting system. Under the program, rich nations can offset
their own emissions by cutting greenhouse gas in poorer
countries. There are about 5,926 projects seeking registration
and 2,956 registered, according to UN data compiled by
Bloomberg.  “Given the limited participation of parties in the second
commitment period of the  Kyoto Protocol , and the existence of
the Dec. 31, 2012 EU-emissions trading system deadline, a severe
drop in demand for validation services, and slowed growth for
verification services are expected after 2012,” said Werner Betzenbichler, general manager of the Designated Operational
Entities & Independent Entities Association.  ‘Significant Risk’  Audit firms may be forced to cut back the services they
offer because of the plunge in demand, the association in
Freising,  Germany ,  said in a letter  to the United Nations review
dated Jan. 16.  “The current limited political will for a broad post-2012
regulatory carbon regime and the consequent uncertainty over
demand for international emission reduction credits creates a
significant risk of losing the considerable experience built up
by the new DOE industry over the past decade,” Betzenbichler
said.  DOE is the industry’s term to describe the audit firms,
which include  SGS SA (SGSN) , Det Norske Veritas Ltd., Tuev Sued and
 Bureau Veritas SA. (BVI)   UN emission credits are important because they are used to
meet compliance targets in the EU at lower cost. The EU system
is one of the only ones in the world with mandatory targets.  UN CDM credits, known as Certified Emission Reductions, for
December delivery rose 2.9 percent today to 3.97 euros ($5.23) a
metric ton on the ICE Futures Europe exchange in London as of
12:12 p.m. They’ve fallen 64 percent in the past year on
flagging demand and surging supply. EU carbon allowances rose
2.5 percent to 7.78 euros.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mathew Carr in  London  at 
 m.carr@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  