-- Seychelles’s Central Bank Says Weaker Rupee Is Fueling Inflation
-- B y   R i c h a r d   R a m a s a w m y
-- 2012-01-26T20:00:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/seychelles-s-central-bank-says-weaker-rupee-is-fueling-inflation.html
Seychelles’s weakening rupee is
fueling inflation and risks reducing the foreign reserves of the
Indian Ocean archipelago,  central bank  Governor Pierre Laporte
said.  The effect of the currency decline over the past three
months may warrant tighter monetary policy, including raising
commercial banks’ reserve requirements, Laporte said in an
interview yesterday in Victoria, the capital. The rupee has lost
10 percent against the dollar since the end of October,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  “The concern for the CBS is the ongoing depreciation of
the Seychelles rupee against the main currencies and its impact
on inflation,” he said.  Inflation in Seychelles, an African country of 115 islands
that depends mainly on tourism and fishing for revenue, climbed
to 5.5 percent in December, the highest level in more than two
years, on rising fuel prices and as the weaker rupee boosted
import costs. The debt crisis in Europe, the biggest source of
tourists, may curb growth in 2012, which the  International
Monetary Fund  estimated at 4 percent in 2011.  The rupee slumped to 14.35 per dollar on Jan. 20, the
weakest since May 2009. It traded at 13.97 late yesterday.  The Central Bank of Seychelles may consider using foreign
reserves, currently at $285 million, to curb the currency’s
fall, Laporte said.  Stock Exchange  “The central bank will only intervene in the case of
excess volatility and at the same time I cannot discard any
further depreciation of the rupee in the coming months,” he
said.  The government has endorsed a proposal by the Seychelles
International Business Authority, the financial industry
regulator, to open a stock exchange in the country this year,
Laporte said.  “The planned opening of the equity market is scheduled for
June 2012 with the listing of local and foreign companies,” he
said, without giving more details.  About 73 percent of tourists to the Seychelles islands were
from  Europe  in 2011, according to the financial statistics
agency, including Britain’s  Prince William  and his wife Kate,
who ended their honeymoon in the tropical destination.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Richard Ramasawmy in Johannesburg at 
 rramasawmy1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  