-- Shale Gas $100 Billion Savings to U.S. Exceed Tax Cuts: Energy
-- B y   M a r k   C h e d i a k
-- 2012-01-26T00:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/shale-gas-100-billion-savings-to-u-s-exceed-tax-cuts-energy.html
Natural  gas  prices that slumped to a
10-year low this month could save U.S. consumers $16.5 billion
on home energy bills over the course of a year, according to a
senior economist at the U.S. Federal Reserve.  U.S. households might see total savings from lower gas
prices of as much as $113 billion a year through 2015, including
tack-on effects such as lower product prices and higher wages
generated by cheaper fuel, according to energy industry
consultants  IHS Inc. (IHS)   The projected savings is “an unbelievable amount of
money,” said Greg Ebel, chief executive of  Spectra Energy
Corp. (SE) , during a Jan. 17 interview. “That’s better than any tax
cut you’ve seen out there, better than any government handout.”  If consumers end up pocketing more than $100 billion due to
low gas prices, it could add a “significant” piece to U.S.
gross domestic product growth for 2012 or 2013, said Robert
Solow, professor emeritus at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology in Cambridge, who won the 1987 Nobel Prize in
economics. “If that figure is right, it’s a substantial
amount,” Solow said in a telephone interview yesterday.  The savings realized by the nation’s 113 million households
will vary depending on location and how much gas makes up the
home’s total energy bill. Gas utilities are passing along the
lower prices they’re paying for the fuel because of a glut of
new domestic production from hydraulic fracturing and horizontal
drilling in shale formations.  Gas Price Plunge  The price of gas has plunged about 30 percent since the end
of October on mild weather and oversupplies, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. Natural gas for next-month delivery fell
to $2.322 per million British thermal units on Jan. 19, the
lowest price since February 2002. Gas settled at $2.728
yesterday.  Consumers will likely spend about 95 percent of the direct
savings they see from their gas bills, said Bernard Weinstein,
associate director of the Maguire Energy Institute at  Southern
Methodist University  in  Dallas . While that amount is a fraction
of the $10.245 trillion in  consumer spending  for 2010, “it’s a
step in the right direction,” Solow said.  Electricity prices, historically tied to the gas market,
also are falling, although not necessarily for consumers. That’s
because many power companies have raised rates to upgrade an
aging power grid, install pollution controls and build new
generators.  Typical Household Savings  The typical U.S. household gas bill this year would drop to
$323.50 from $468.80 in the previous year at an average gas
price of $2.50 per million British thermal units -- a savings of
$145.30, said Mine Yucel, vice president and senior economist at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas.  Residents are forecast to pay about 25 percent less this
winter for gas used in stoves, furnaces and fireplaces than they
did in 2008, when the fuel last touched highs of more than
$13.50, according to the U.S. Energy Information Administration.  “I think of shale gas as a real game-changer for consumers
of natural gas,” said Hank Linginfelter, executive vice
president of Atlanta-based  AGL Resources Inc. (AGL) , in a telephone
interview. “It’s having a significant impact on prices.’  AGL Resources, the largest standalone local U.S. gas
distribution owner, said December bills have fallen on average
25 percent from a year ago at its utilities in seven states.  40 Percent Bill Trim  Iowa gas bills fell about 19 percent in December compared
to the same month a year ago on lower demand and prices,
MidAmerican Energy Co., owned by  Warren Buffett ’s  Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. (BRK/A) , said. Piedmont Natural Gas Co., based in
 Charlotte ,  North Carolina , has proposed cutting rates next month
that would bring the average bill down by 40 percent since 2008.  Unseasonably warm weather has helped reduced gas bills. In
December, average U.S. demand for heating was about  15 percent 
below normal, according to Weather Derivatives in Belton,
 Missouri . About 51 percent of U.S. households rely on gas for
heating, according to the Energy Department.  Gas prices have been dropping since mid-2008, when a global
recession sapped demand just as drilling accelerated in the gas-
rich Marcellus shale in the eastern U.S., according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  The decline in gas has pushed average wholesale electricity
prices paid by utilities down 50 percent since fourth quarter
2008, according to a Jan. 11 report from  Standard & Poor’s .
Meanwhile, retail rates paid by consumers have  risen about 5
percent  over a similar period, according to data from the Energy
Department compiled by Bloomberg .  Locked-In Power Rates  Consumer rates for power are often locked in by state
regulators, meaning the savings won’t always be passed along
immediately to customers. Regulators may allow power producers
to include costs for maintenance, repairs and new construction
of plants and transmission lines in the rates they charge.  ‘‘Generally, we are seeing higher electricity rates because
of the large infrastructure investments utilities have made over
the last five years, although that’s being offset in part by
lower energy costs,” said  Travis Miller , a Chicago-based
utility analyst for  Morningstar Inc. (MORN)   Southern Co. (SO) ’s Georgia Power customers are now paying
$19.59 more a month compared with the end of 2008 to cover the
cost of building two nuclear reactors, pollution controls and
other upgrades, according to an e-mailed statement from Atlanta-
based Southern.  Power Bill Still High  “If power prices are going down, that’s certainly not
reflected in the bills people are paying,” said Clare McGuire,
director of the consumer energy program at Georgia Watch, an
Atlanta-based consumer advocacy group.  Georgia Power customer Dan Cupertino said his monthly bills
increased at times last year even when he was using less energy
compared with the same period a year ago.  “I’m using less energy, but my bills are going up,” said
the 61-year-old Cupertino, who is retired and lives in a five
bedroom house in Fayetteville,  Georgia , which is about 25 miles
(40 kilometers) south of Atlanta. “It’s ridiculous.”  Rate increases will help Georgia Power pay for nearly $5
billion in spending for power lines, new gas plants, compliance
with environmental rules and so-called smart-grid technology,
said Christy Ihrig, a spokeswoman for Georgia Power, in an e-
mailed statement.  Collecting money during the building of two new reactors at
its Vogtle plant in Georgia will save customers $300 million in
financing costs for the $14 billion project, Ihrig said.  Deregulated Difference  In deregulated electricity markets, where retail providers
compete for customers, the drop in power prices passes through
more quickly to consumers, said Paul Patterson, a New York-based
utility analyst for Glenrock Associates LLC.  In  Texas , which dismantled its power utilities so that
almost all households buy power at competitive prices largely
determined by the cost of natural gas, the average residential
power rate fell 11 percent from 2008 to 2010, according to the
Energy Department in  Washington . Texas residences paid an
average 11.60 cents per kilowatt-hour in 2010, according to the
department.  Lower gas and power costs have muted some of the rate
increases made by regulated utilities for infrastructure
investments, pollution controls and new  power plants , said Sam Brothwell, a senior utility analyst for Bloomberg Industries.  Transmission Costs  Fuel expenses typically make up the majority of consumers’
gas bills, which also include fees for delivery and
transmission, according to the Energy Department.  Residents are forecast to pay $671 on average from October
through March 2012, down 7.3 percent from last year’s winter
period and nearly 30 percent from 2005, according to the U.S.
Energy Information Administration. The average winter bill over
that time period was $847.  Between 2012 and 2015, lower gas prices may result in total
average annual household savings of $926, in part due to lower
gas heating and electricity bills, according to a December
report by the consultants IHS.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Mark Chediak in  San Francisco  at 
 mchediak@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  