-- SKF Forecasts Global Demand Will Hold Up as Europe Declines
-- B y   O l a   K i n n a n d e r
-- 2012-01-26T13:20:13Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/skf-says-europe-demand-to-continue-falling-on-transport-industry.html
SKF AB (SKFB) , the world’s largest maker of
ball bearings, predicted little change in the worldwide demand
for its offerings in the first quarter even as European
customers in the transport industry curtail investments.  Sales of SKF’s products and services in the year’s first
three months will probably be “slightly lower” in  Europe 
compared with the fourth quarter, the Gothenburg, Sweden-based
company said in a statement today. Global demand for all
divisions is expected to be “relatively unchanged,” it said.  “The European automotive market was expectedly weak” with
fewer car registrations in the fourth quarter, said Lars Brorson, an analyst at DNB Bank ASA in  London  with a “hold”
recommendation for SKF’s shares. Brorson said it is “positive”
that SKF had an unchanged or slightly higher outlook for all its
main segments except trucks.  SKF began reducing production at the end of the third
quarter. The manufacturer is considered an  industry  bellwether
because its bearings are used in products such as construction
cranes and cars. The company is the first major Nordic
manufacturer to report earnings this quarter.  SKF traded 1.7 percent higher at 160.50 kronor as of
2:13 p.m. in  Stockholm , compared with a 1.9 percent advance for
the OMX Stockholm 30 Index. The stock has gained 10 percent
this year, valuing the company at 73.2 billion kronor ($10.8
billion).  Fourth-quarter  net income  fell to 1.17 billion kronor, or
2.57 kronor a share, from 1.31 billion kronor, or 2.87 kronor, a
year earlier. Sales rose 5.5 percent to 16.3 billion kronor, in
line with the average estimate of 17 analysts surveyed by
Bloomberg.  Europe Outlook  “Looking into the first quarter, we still see uncertainty
in demand in Europe and in our automotive business,” Chief
Executive Officer Tom Johnstone said in the statement. SKF
generated 46 percent of its revenue in Europe last year.  Sweden’s economy probably entered a recession this quarter,
and annual growth may only reach 0.6 percent this year,  Swedbank
AB (SWEDA)  predicted on Jan. 24, citing slumping exports and rising
unemployment. Europe’s turmoil will “definitely” get worse
before the situation improves, Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said last week.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ola Kinnander in Stockholm at 
 okinnander@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Benedikt Kammel at   bkammel@bloomberg.net  