-- Slovenia’s Institute Says Economy to Expand 0.2% This Year
-- B y   B o r i s   C e r n i
-- 2012-01-26T12:56:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/slovenia-s-economy-forecast-to-grow-0-2-in-2012-institute-says.html
Slovenia’s  economy  will grow 0.2
percent this year before expanding at a 2 percent pace in 2013
as the debt crisis in  Europe  saps demand for its exports.  The economy was forecast to grow 2 percent this year and
2.5 percent in 2013 in an estimate made last year, the
government’s forecasting institute in the capital Ljubljana said
in an e-mailed statement today.  Gross domestic product  probably
expanded 0.5 percent last year, down from a 1.5 percent estimate
in the previous report, the institute said.  “Expectations about growth from our last report have
deteriorated significantly,” the institute said. “The
situation in the international financial markets has worsened,
shown by increased borrowing costs and more difficult access to
funding by countries and companies.”  Slovenia’s economy is sliding into recession as austerity
measures by European nations striving to cut their debt load cut
demand for its exported goods. Economic output of the first
post-communist nation to adopt the euro in 2007 shrank 0.5
percent in the third quarter last year from a year earlier.  Government Talks  The former Yugoslav nation has been without an official
government since Borut Pahor’s Cabinet was toppled in a
September no-confidence motion. Janez Jansa, whose party came
second in a snap vote last month, has secured 50 votes in the
90-member assembly to be confirmed as premier at a session on
Jan. 28.  Jansa pledged to cut spending by about 800 million euros
($1.05 billion) to allay investors’ concern over the country’s
public debt, which more than doubled since the euro adoption
five years ago.  Inflation is estimated at 1.8 percent by the end of this
year and at the same level at the end of 2013, the institute
said. Its forecasts are used by the government to plan budget
spending. Slovenia’s current budget gap is estimated at about 6
percent, according to central bank Governor Marko Kranjec.  The institute’s estimate compares with a forecast of a 1.1
percent contraction by the  European Bank for Reconstruction and
Development  in a Jan. 24 report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Boris Cerni in Ljubljana at 
 bcerni@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James M. Gomez at 
 jagomez@bloomberg.net  