-- Solar CEOs See Boom in China Will Ease Glut in 2012: Energy
-- B y   A l e x   M o r a l e s   a n d   J a c q u e l i n e   S i m m o n s
-- 2012-01-27T17:33:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/solar-ceos-predict-boom-in-china-will-ease-glut-in-2012-energy.html
China  may double its installations
of solar panels this year, absorbing excess production that
depressed prices and margins in 2011, chief executive officers
from two of the industry’s top five manufactures said.  Suntech Power Holdings Co. CEO Zhengrong Shi estimated the
nation may add 4 gigawatts or more of panels, and  Trina Solar
Ltd. (TSL)  CEO Jifan Gao expects 5 gigawatts. That compares with about
2.2 gigawatts installed in the country in 2011, more than double
the capacity of the average nuclear reactor in the U.S.  The cost of solar panels fell 47 percent last year as
Chinese manufacturers led by Suntech boosted production, winning
market share from Western rivals such as Q-Cells SE and First
Solar Inc. With China’s government pushing to consolidate the
industry, the remarks from Shi and Gao suggest rising demand may
support the biggest panel manufacturers.  “It’s a huge market,” Gao said through an interpreter in
an interview at the  World Economic Forum ’s annual meeting in
Davos, Switzerland. “Excellent companies with good technology,
balance sheets and also brands will win out. A lot of companies
without those advantages will be taken away.”  Those forecasts are more optimistic than the projections of
Bloomberg New Energy Finance, which expects Chinese
installations of 3 gigawatts this year and world demand from
25.5 gigawatts to 32.8 gigawatts. Trina expects global demand of
30 gigawatts to 35 gigawatts.  Solar Rebound  Solar shares have rebounded in recent weeks, driven in part
by politics in Germany, the world’s largest solar market. After
adding a record 7.5 gigawatts of panels last year, more than
double the government’s target, lawmakers proposed cutting
subsidies. A meeting Jan. 25 ended without an agreement and
solar stocks climbed.  The  Bloomberg Large Solar Energy  index of 17 companies,
which lost more than two-thirds of its value in 2011, gained 1.7
percent yesterday and has increased 20 percent this year. In  New
York , Suntech rose 2.7 percent and Trina by 5 percent. 30. An
index of eight  Chineses solar  companies rose 5.4 percent, more
than five times the pace of the  NEX index  of clean energy
shares.  In Britain, the government estimates that capping subsidies
in December would have saved 1.5 billion pounds ($2.4 billion)
over 25 years. A court ruled it illegal to end the support then,
ahead of schedule, and developers are rushing to complete new
solar plants that will earn the old tariff before officials
decide when to scale them back.  Chinese Demand  Suntech’s view shows that growing demand in China may also
drive a solar recovery this year.  “I’m hearing a lot from on the ground in China about how
hopping demand has been,” said Aaron Chew, an analyst with
Maxim Group LLC in New York. “China could surpass  Germany ” as
the world’s largest solar market.  Prices of  polysilicon , the raw material in most solar
panels, rose in four of the past five weeks after falling 65
percent in 2011.  The Chinese government is spurring clean energy to
diversify away from coal, which fuels 70 percent of the economy
and is blamed for pollution blanketing industrial areas from
 Hong Kong  to Beijing. Renewables currently account for less than
1 percent of supply, which is growing faster in China than
anywhere else in the industrial world, according to data from
the oil company BP Plc.  Jenny Chase, head of solar analysis at New Energy Finance,
said the forecasts assume China will meet and not surpass the
government’s target to have 15 gigawatts of solar capacity by
2015. The estimates from Suntech and Trina suggest that China,
like Germany, Spain and  Italy , may have trouble keeping a lid on
installations once developers start understanding how subsidies
will apply to their projects.  Supply-Side Push  “Many other governments who have tried to limit their
markets have failed,” Chase said in a phone interview from
Zurich. “There could be a supply-side push that pushes this
equipment out incredibly cheaply without the need for the
federal subsidy.”  Solar panel prices have fallen so quickly that the
technology is near reaching parity with fossil fuels in terms of
the ability to supply power to national electric grids at a
competitive price, said Gao of Trina.  ‘Grid Parity’  “We have confidence that we will reach grid parity in
several years in China -- like in three to four years,” said
Gao, adding that Trina had about 10 percent of its sales in
China last year. “In places like  Australia , this year they will
reach grid parity. Next year, it will be Italy and in 2014,
regions like  California .”  For now, falling prices are hurting companies throughout
the industry. Trina cut its forecast for shipments last year
along with First Solar, SunPower Corp., Yingli Green Energy
Holding Co., Renesola Ltd. and JinkoSolar Holding Co.  Gao also predicted consolidation in the solar industry, and
said that while the 10 biggest panel makers now account for just
over 55 percent of the market, by 2015, that proportion may
reach more than 80 percent.  “Although the industry faced some challenges, if you look
at the trend, it’s growing,” Trina’s Gao said. “We expect that
by 2015, the new installations that year will be about 50
gigawatts, so it’s constantly growing.”  China, the manufacturing hub for seven of the eight biggest
solar panel makers, until 2010 accounted for less than 3 percent
of the market for photovoltaics, with 490 megawatts installed.
Installations more than quadrupled last year.  Shi of Suntech said China’s market was “exciting” and the
market there this year could be “4 gigawatts or more.” Suntech
is the biggest supplier of solar photovoltaic panels, and Trina
is the fifth largest.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Alex Morales in London at 
 amorales2@bloomberg.net ;
Jacqueline Simmons in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 jackiem@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  