-- South African Economy to Expand Less Than 3% on Europe Slump, Gordhan Says
-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z
-- 2012-01-26T10:29:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/south-african-economy-to-expand-less-than-3-on-europe-slump-gordhan-says.html
South Africa’s economy will probably
expand less than 3 percent this year as a possible recession in
Europe saps demand for exports, Finance Minister  Pravin Gordhan 
said in an interview with  CNN .  “Growth is certainly going to be below 3 percent as we go
into 2012,” Gordhan told CNN, according to an e-mailed
transcript of the interview. The growth rate may be higher than
the 2.5 percent forecast by the  International Monetary Fund  this
week, he said.  Gordhan, who will give updated growth forecasts in his
budget speech on Feb. 22, said in October the economy will grow
3.4 percent this year. Europe, which buys about a third of South
Africa’s manufactured exports, will contract 0.5 percent as a
result of a worsening debt crisis, according to the IMF.  “Europe is a factor,” Gordhan said. “Europe as a whole
is a major trading partner for  South Africa . And for the last 12
to 15 months has had a major impact on our manufacturing
industry and other export sectors as well.”  The  Reserve Bank  estimates the economy will expand 2.8
percent this year. That’s less than half the 7 percent pace
needed annually for the government to meet its goal of creating
5 million jobs by 2020. South Africa’s  jobless rate  of 25
percent is the highest of 61 countries tracked by Bloomberg.  Investment in infrastructure is key to supporting growth,
Gordhan said.  “Government has been hard at work to ask itself the
question how do we not allow the global crisis to dampen all
prospects of growth and employment in South Africa,” he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andres R. Martinez in Johannesburg at 
 amartinez28@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  