-- South Africa Dominance on Continent May Derail Bid for African Union Post
-- B y   M i k e   C o h e n   a n d   W i l l i a m   D a v i s o n
-- 2012-01-27T13:08:39Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/south-africa-s-dominance-in-africa-may-derail-bid-for-key-continent-post.html
South Africa ’s bid to flex its
foreign-policy muscle by capturing the African Union’s top post
may be thwarted by nations resentful of its already dominant
role on the world’s poorest continent.  South Africa initially failed to back the 54-nation body’s
demand last year that Ivory Coast President Laurent Gbagbo cede
power to  Alassane Ouattara  following a disputed election. It
also clashed with members Gabon, Nigeria and Ethiopia, which
recognized Libya’s National Transitional Council even as
President Jacob Zuma was persuading the AU to delay recognition.  “South Africa’s handling of the Libya fallout has hurt it
badly on the continent,” Chris Landsberg, a politics professor
at the University of Johannesburg, said in a phone interview. It
“may be unsuccessful in its bid.”  South Africa generates a third of sub-Saharan Africa’s
gross domestic product, is the only African member of the Group
of 20 industrialized nations and holds the rotating presidency
of the United Nations  Security Council . Its home affairs
minister, Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma, is seeking to depose incumbent
AU Commission Chairman  Jean Ping  of Gabon at this weekend’s
meeting in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia’s capital.  Ping has the support of West Africa and North Africa, said
an Ethiopian Foreign Affairs Ministry official who requested
anonymity because he was not authorized to speak about the
election, in a telephone interview.  Kenya Support  Gabon will back Ping’s re-election, Foreign Ministry
spokesman Etienne Nguema said in a phone interview from
Libreville, the capital. Kenya will support the incumbent, the
Nairobi-based  Daily Nation  reported on Jan. 22, citing Assistant
Foreign Affairs Minister Richard Onyonka.  African countries bought 34 percent of South  Africa ’s
manufactured goods in the third quarter, more than any other
region, according to central bank figures. South African
International Relations Minister Maite Nkoana-Mashabane says her
country is seeking the post to ensure the union plays a more
forceful role in world politics and is run more effectively.  The AU has refused to confront the leaders of several
member states accused of flouting democracy and human rights
violations, including Zimbabwean President Robert Mugabe and
former Libyan leader  Muammar Qaddafi . The grouping last year
elected as its ceremonial head  Equatorial Guinea  leader Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, who has been in power since 1972 and whom
 Human Rights Watch , the New York-based advocacy group, accuses
of plundering his nation’s oil riches.  Arab Spring  African Union mediation efforts during the Arab Spring
uprisings that toppled governments in Tunisia and  Egypt  last
year came too late to have any effect, while its attempts to
restore calm in  Libya  were overtaken by the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization bombings that helped topple Qaddafi.  On March 10 last year, as NATO sent ships to the seas off
Libya, the AU’s Peace and Security Council said it rejected any
foreign military intervention and urged the international
community to support its negotiating team of five African
presidents, including Zuma.  A week later, South Africa backed UN Security Council
 Resolution 1973 , which authorized the use of “all necessary
measures” to protect Libyan civilians. U.S. and coalition
forces began military action against Libya on March 19 and
Qaddafi’s regime was deposed in August.  President Zuma later said the bombing campaign constituted
an abuse of the UN resolution, which was supported by the
Security Council’s other two member states: Nigeria and Gabon.  French Candidate  South Africa also differed with French-speaking African
countries last year, saying the  International Monetary Fund 
should be headed by an emerging-market candidate while such
countries as  Ivory Coast  supported  France ’s  Christine Lagarde .  A medical doctor, Dlamini-Zuma is the ex-wife of the
president, who has rallied support for her candidacy. She served
as South Africa’s foreign minister between 1999 and 2009, when
she was appointed to her current post, and would be the first
woman to head the continental body since it was founded as the
Organization of African Unity in 1963.  “She will make a very good executive secretary,”
Landsberg said. “She knows the continent inside out. She has
tremendous foreign policy experience.”  Former South African President  Thabo Mbeki  touted Dlamini-
Zuma as his successor. Her nomination challenges a tradition
that the top AU post go to a smaller state to offset the
political and economic dominance of South Africa,  Nigeria ,
 Algeria , Libya and Egypt, said Siphamandla Zondi, director of
the Institute for Global Dialogue in  Pretoria .  ‘Close Margin’  “Whoever wins will win by a very close margin,” Zondi
said in a phone interview. “South Africa could cause resentment
and feelings that it is throwing its weight around and looking
after its own interests.”  The commission runs the AU’s day-to-day affairs, while a
largely ceremonial chairmanship of the union rotates annually
among the leaders of its members. Ping, Gabon’s former foreign
minister, has led the commission since 2008.  While Dlamini-Zuma may be able to address the AU’s
administrative difficulties, she would have little scope to deal
with its other shortcomings, said Nomfundo Ngwenya, an analyst
at the South African Institute for International Affairs.  No Position  “It’s not the commission that determines the AU line, it’s
the heads of state,” she said in an interview from
Johannesburg. “I don’t think you can necessarily put a South
African there and expect them to dictate to the rest of the
countries on how to be more efficient or more forceful or more
assertive.”  Heads of state from the 15-nation Southern African
Development Community, a regional trading bloc that includes
South Africa, have declared their support for Dlamini-Zuma,
Nkoana-Mashabane said. Still, Malawi, a member of the group, has
not taken a position, Information Minister Patricia Kaliati said
in a phone interview.  Voting is scheduled to take place on Jan. 29 and the result
will be announced on the same day, the AU said on Jan. 24. The
winner requires a two-third majority.  “Countries are at liberty to vote and vote according to
their convictions,” minister Nkoana-Mashabane told reporters at
Bela-Bela in South Africa’s Limpopo province on Jan. 18. “We
are very, very confident that we’ve got the requisite support.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mike Cohen in  Cape Town  at 
 mcohen21@bloomberg.net ;
William Davison in Addis Ababa at 
 wdavison3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew J. Barden at 
 barden@bloomberg.net  