-- Spain Plans Budget Law as Drug Firms Owed $8.4 Billion by States
-- B y   E m m a   R o s s - T h o m a s
-- 2012-01-26T12:36:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/spain-plans-budget-law-as-drug-firms-owed-8-4-billion-by-states.html
Spain  pledged to set spending limits
for regional governments in a new law tomorrow as the country’s
pharmaceutical lobby said the regions owe companies $8.4 billion
for drugs.  The People’s Party Cabinet plans the budget-stability law
to flesh out a constitutional amendment that the party helped
the former Socialist government pass in September. Budget
Minister Cristobal Montoro said “early warning” and
“automatic correction” systems will be set up to prevent
overspending and sanctions will be strengthened.  “The aim is to guarantee the budget stability of all
administrations, boost confidence and strengthen Spain’s
commitments to the European Union,” Montoro told a
parliamentary committee today in Madrid.  Spain’s PP government, in power since December, is trying
to convince  investors  it can reduce its  budget deficit  by almost
half in 2012 even as the economy suffers its second recession in
two years. The law aims to increase discipline in the regional
governments, which have accumulated unpaid bills after they were
shut out of public debt markets and saw their tax revenues
collapse.  Spain’s 17 regions owed pharmaceutical companies 6.37
billion euros at the end of 2011, lobby group Farmaindustria
said today in a statement. That debt has risen 36 percent from a
year earlier as payments were delayed by an average of 525 days,
according to the group, which has urged Prime Minister  Mariano Rajoy  to sell bonds backed by the unpaid bills in a program that
would be guaranteed by the government.  Credit Line   As regions including Valencia suffer from a liquidity
squeeze, Montoro has offered the states a credit line to allow
them to pay unpaid bills. The government will seek tighter
deficit plans in return, he said.  The budget law will prevent spending rising more than
projected economic growth, while giving debt redemptions and
interest payments priority over other public spending. The ratio
of debt to gross domestic product will be limited to 60 percent,
Montoro said.  The PP or its allies govern in most of Spain’s 17 regions,
strengthening the  government ’s hand to reorder public finances.
The regions, which missed their combined budget goals in 2010
and 2011, control about a third of public spending and hire half
of the countries’ public workers.  “We have seen the willingness of all the regional
governments that Spain should have a new budget-stability law,”
Montoro said today.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Emma Ross-Thomas in  Madrid  at 
 erossthomas@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  