-- Soccer Coach Redknapp Tells Police He Paid $1.6 Million Tax, Didn’t Cheat
-- B y   T a r i q   P a n j a
-- 2012-01-27T14:24:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/spurs-coach-redknapp-s-392-600-vanished-into-mist-after-buyout-failure.html
Tottenham manager  Harry Redknapp 
told officers investigating allegations of  tax evasion  against
him that he didn’t need to “fiddle” after saying he paid 1
million pounds ($1.6 million) in taxes.  Redknapp, 64, and Sheffield Wednesday owner Milan Mandaric,
73, are denying two charges of tax evasion over $295,000 paid
into a bank account in Monaco when the two worked at Portsmouth
soccer club. Redknapp’s comments came in tapes played on the
fifth day of their trial in London.  Redknapp told a police officer and a tax official about how
being “disorganized” led to his not being paid back 250,000
pounds lent to a friend to buy soccer team Oxford United and a
bigger loss after signing away half the rights to a 8.5 million
pound property investment for nothing in return.  Redknapp said Mandaric assured him the taxes on the  Monaco 
account in the name of the manager’s dog, Rosie, had been paid.
He also said he’d given up the account as “dead” when, 18
months after it was opened in 2001, Mandaric told him
investments made using the funds on Redknapp’s behalf had been a
“disaster.”  “I could tell you stories that could blow your brains
away,” Redknapp told police in June 2009, six months before he
was charged.  “The money I’ve squandered trusting people.
Unfortunately that’s the way I live my life.”  Redknapp said Mandaric told him to open the Monaco account
so he could make some investments on his behalf in lieu of a
bonus payment the coach claimed for selling former Portsmouth
striker  Peter Crouch  to  Aston Villa  in 2002. Earlier in the
trial, the jury heard that Mandaric at various times described
the payments as an investment on behalf of Redknapp and also as
a loan to the coach.  Empty Account  On the tapes, Redknapp is heard telling investigators he
didn’t declare the account on his  tax return  or tell his
financial advisers about it because he thought it was empty. He
then went on to list his business failures, including one where
he allowed an associate of former England goalkeeper  David James 
to claim half a stake in an 8.5 million-pounds investment that
gave the man half the potential profits “and he ain’t put no
money in.”  “He’s in for nothing and he has half the profit,”
Redknapp said. “I’ll give you my solicitor’s name, you ask him
if he’s ever come across anyone as bad business-wise as I am.
Unfortunately, I live my life like that.”  Redknapp told police if he’s done anything wrong it wasn’t
intentional, adding that he paid a “fortune” in tax, totaling
about 1 million in 2008.  Denial  “I’ve not purposely gone out to try and avoid paying some
income tax, why should I do that, I’m not going to ruin my life,
and my wife’s life and my boys,” Redknapp said. “I’ve brought
up a fantastic family, to try and nick a few quid off the income
tax, why? I’m not into that I don’t need that. I’d rather give
you a hundred grand than try and nick a few quid off you.”  He told police he was attending a golf event the next day
where he was going to donate 15,000 pounds to Leukemia Busters,
a charity he and his wife donate 10,000 pounds to every year.  “We’re givers, not takers,” Redknapp said.  Judge Anthony Leonard said the trial could stretch into a
third week.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Tariq Panja in  London  at 
 tpanja@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at   aaarons@bloomberg.net ;
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  