-- Stalled Tax Boost Risks Japan Bond Slump as Noda Fails to Get LDP Backing
-- B y   S a c h i k o   S a k a m a k i   a n d   T a k a s h i   H i r o k a w a
-- 2012-01-27T02:23:11Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/stalled-tax-plan-risks-japan-bond-slump-as-noda-hits-opposition.html
Japanese Prime Minister  Yoshihiko Noda  says doubling the consumption tax is a necessary remedy to
address soaring debt and social welfare costs. His opponents
don’t disagree; they’re just not going to let him do it.  The main opposition  Liberal Democratic Party  has rejected
repeated calls to negotiate on the proposal and instead demanded
new elections, as polls show 60 percent of voters oppose the
levy and Noda’s popularity plunging. LDP lawmaker Ichita Yamamoto in an interview said “raising the consumption tax is
impossible” under Noda’s watch.  Failure to reach a compromise threatens to deepen the
stagnation underscored by six prime ministers since 2006 and an
economy struggling to recover from last year’s earthquake and
nuclear disasters. The impasse could also push up bond yields,
depriving the government of financing a record debt burden with
the world’s second-lowest borrowing costs.  “If Noda fails, it will have a very big impact on the
market,” former  Bank of Japan  Deputy Governor Kazumasa Iwata
said in a Jan. 25 interview.  Iwata said the possibility of an “unusual shock” can’t be
ruled out, comparing the risks to the  bond market  with two
episodes when shifts in sentiment caused  yields  to spike.
Between October 1998 and February 1999, and again between June
and September 2003, yields on 10-year bonds more than tripled.  Yields Fall  The prospect of escalating borrowing needs has yet to hit
 Japan ’s securities, with the yield on the benchmark 10-year
government bond dropping one basis point, or 0.01 percentage
point, to 0.965 percent at 10:30 a.m. in Tokyo.  The government may have a revenue shortfall of 50.8
trillion yen ($656 billion) in the fiscal year starting April
2015 without an increase in the  sales tax , according to a
finance ministry report obtained by Bloomberg News. Such a gap
would contrast with the Noda administration’s pledge to limit
new bond sales to about 44 trillion yen a year through fiscal
2014.  Noda on Jan. 24 renewed his call for dialogue on the
 Democratic Party of Japan ’s plan to raise the sales tax to 8
percent in April 2014 and 10 percent in October 2015. A Cabinet
Office report the same day said the government will probably
miss its goal of balancing the budget by 2020 even if the plan
passes, and officials have said further increases are likely.  Rising Discontent  A Mainichi newspaper survey  published  Jan. 23 said the
proportion of the public opposed to the increase rose to 60
percent from 54 percent in December. Noda’s approval rating fell
to 32 percent from 38 percent, and is down 24 percentage points
since he became the DPJ’s third leader since 2009, when it
ousted the LDP from half a century of control.  LDP leader Sadakazu Tanigaki has said Noda’s party reneged
on pledges to cut spending and overhaul the pension system, and
should call new elections. His legislators say that, while
public discontent over the deadlock may hurt their party as
well, defeating the DPJ takes precedence. The Mainichi poll put
ruling party support at 17 percent and the LDP’s at 16 percent.  “Many people hate us, and this is serious,” Yamamoto
said. “The point is there won’t be a breakthrough if the
current situation continues.”  LDP lawmaker Takeshi Noda, who isn’t related to the prime
minister, says ruling party dissension undercuts the government.
Nine DPJ legislators opposed to raising the  consumption tax  left
to form their own party and other members have expressed
reservations.  ‘Split in Two’  “The ruling party is split in two,” said Noda, who is
head of the LDP’s tax panel. “It’s wrong to ask for opposition
support before he unites his own party. The bill won’t pass the
lower house.”  At the same time, the LDP’s own platform calls for raising
the consumption tax and Tanigaki, a former finance minister,
called for doubling the levy in 2006. Opposition lawmakers have
criticized Prime Minister Noda’s inability to cut spending. The
DPJ has yet to come up with the 16.8 trillion yen ($216 billion)
in revenue it pledged to find by reducing “wasteful” outlays.  Social-security expenses, which have more than doubled in
the past two decades, will account for 52 percent of general
spending in the fiscal year beginning April 1.  “The LDP also proposes raising the consumption tax to 10
percent, so the number is fine,” Liberal Democratic legislator
and former Credit Suisse First Boston economist Yukari Sato said
in an interview. “But the government plan lacks specifics in
cutting social security expenses. An election should be held to
break through the current sense of frustration.”  Election Dispute  Deputy premier  Katsuya Okada , whom Noda appointed this
month to lead the tax increase effort, has repeatedly rejected
the notion of going to the voters before the legislation passes.  “Decisions have to be made,” Okada said Jan. 22 on Fuji
Television. “There’s no time for an election.” Two days ago
Okada said that even a 10 percent increase in the sales tax
“will be insufficient” to sustain the pension fund system in
the world’s most rapidly aging society.  Political squabbling may imperil Japan’s credit.  Standard &
Poor’s  in November said it may be preparing to lower the
sovereign rating given Noda’s lack of progress in tackling the
debt issue. S&P rates Japan AA- and has had a negative outlook
since April.  Japan’s politicians “have to look around the world,
especially at the European debt crisis,” said Masaaki Kanno,
chief economist in  Tokyo  at JPMorgan Securities Japan Co. and a
former Bank of Japan official. “We don’t have time to waste.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sachiko Sakamaki in Tokyo at 
 ssakamaki1@bloomberg.net ;
Takashi Hirokawa in Tokyo at 
 thirokawa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  