-- Stanford Decried Greed in Speech Shown at Trial
-- B y   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s   a n d   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2012-01-27T00:05:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/stanford-decried-greed-in-speech-shown-at-trial.html
R. Allen Stanford, standing trial on
allegations he led a $7 billion investment fraud, appeared in an
October 2008 video shown to his jury decrying “damn greed” on
 Wall Street  as the financial crisis deepened.  “People are stupid, they’re greedy, they’re lazy, they
don’t stick to their core values,” he told a gathering of
Stanford Financial Group Co. executives in Miami. “We’re
different.”  In the video, shown today in Houston federal court, the
financier told his audience that the company was “$5.5 billion
more liquid than it should have been.” Four months later, U.S.
regulators sued Stanford claiming his businesses were missing
billions of dollars in investor money. He was indicted in June
2009.  Charged with mail fraud,  wire fraud  and obstructing a U.S.
Securities and Exchange Commission probe, Stanford, 61, told
jurors earlier this week that he isn’t guilty. He faces as long
as 20 years in prison if convicted on the most serious charges.  U.S. District Judge David Hittner, who is overseeing
Stanford’s case, said the trial, which began Jan. 23, could last
six weeks.  Earlier today, the former president of Stanford Group Co.’s
private client group testified about a monthly newsletter
Stanford drafted for his investors and sent to him for his input
in December 2008, the month that New York money manager  Bernard Madoff  confessed to the biggest  Ponzi scheme  in U.S. history.  ‘Exposure’ to Madoff  “We want our depositors to know that SIBL had no direct or
indirect exposure to any of Madoff’s investments” or to
subprime debt,’’ said Jason Green, read from the newsletter.  Green also read to the jury the text of an e-mail message
he sent to Stanford and to Stanford’s chief financial officer,
Jim Davis, less than a week before the SEC filed suit and put
him out of business. Davis is the Stanford finance chief who has
pleaded guilty to the scheme and is expected to testify against
Stanford.  In the e-mail, Green urged the men to hire a major
accounting firm as the Stanford business auditor, replacing a
sole practitioner in Antigua, to publish a validation of its
asset values by their custodians, and to hold a conference call
or town meeting with Stanford investors to provide transparency
in the “trust-but-verify” post-Madoff era.  ‘Antiguan Madoff’  Green in that e-mail referenced news articles accusing
“Sir Allen of being the Antiguan Madoff,” adding that he and
other managers believed that absent taking the steps he’d
outlined, “We would not have a business to defend.”  Asked by prosecutor William Stellmach whether Stanford
responded, Green said, “The silence was deafening. No.”  Earlier today, Green testified that Stanford structured
commissions at his securities brokerage to reward members of his
sales force who sold the most certificates of deposit issued by
his Antigua bank.  Those CDs are at the heart of U.S. government charges that
Stanford orchestrated an investment fraud scheme.  Brokers who had quarterly sales of at least $1 million in
CDs in excess of any funds clients withdrew during the period
earned bonuses and commissions twice as big as those paid to
employees who didn’t, Green said. Those who fell short of that
target were dropped to the lowest compensation rate.  ‘Reward Growth’  “You’d only get 50 percent of what you’d make,” Green
testified today. He said he understood Stanford designed the
compensation system “to reward growth” in CD sales, an
objective the financier often emphasized in capital letters in
company memos.  Dressed in a charcoal-gray suit and blue shirt, Stanford
watched and took notes as Green, a former top aide, answered the
prosecutor’s questions and read from documents shared with the
jury.  Green told jurors that while he hasn’t been criminally
charged for his role in the alleged scheme, he has been sued by
former brokerage clients on claims of negligence for
recommending the CDs.  Green said the receiver appointed in a lawsuit filed
against Stanford by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission
also sued him, seeking to recover those bonuses and commissions
he earned selling the CDs.  ‘Taking Some Risk’  “I’m taking some risk in testifying, but I feel that it’s
the right thing to do,” Green said under questioning by
Stellmach. “That’s why I’m here.”  Stanford first began selling his Caribbean bank CDs to U.S.
citizens around the time Green joined the company in 1996.
Previously, the CDs were only sold to non-American citizens to
limit the Antiguan bank’s exposure to U.S. regulations and
oversight, Green said.  Stanford’s CDs paid as much as 4.5 percentage points higher
interest than comparable CDs issued by American banks, Green
said, based on what employees were told were consistent double-
digit earnings by the bank’s “globally diversified portfolio.”  “The bank was earning on average a 6 percent spread on
what it was paying clients and earning, so they could afford to
pay the clients a higher rate,” the one-time branch manager
testified. Advisers were told the bank’s portfolio consisted
largely of marketable securities that could be converted to cash
“very quickly; that was one of the big selling points of the
bank in terms of mitigating risk” to investors’ money, he said.  13 Years  Green said that during his 13 years at Stanford’s company,
about 3 percent of the bank’s investment portfolio was managed
by analysts in Stanford’s office in  Memphis ,  Tennessee , while
the rest was handled by a team of European money managers.  Prosecutors accuse Stanford of skimming more than $1
billion in investor deposits to fund a lavish lifestyle and
support a wide array of real estate developments and unrelated
companies ranging from regional airlines to newspapers.  The financier is also accused of deceiving employees and
investors about the extent to which he personally managed the
bank’s investment portfolio. The government claims Stanford and
the company’s finance chief managed about 90 percent of the
bank’s funds, which prosecutors told jurors Stanford treated
“like a personal piggybank.”  Green testified that he would have been concerned to learn
that Laura Pendergest Holt, the firm’s chief investment officer,
wasn’t overseeing all of Stanford’s investment portfolio as he’s
been told by “Mr. Stanford, Mr. Davis, everyone that was
affiliated with the bank that was in a position to know.”  “You wanted to know that somebody was managing the
managers,” Green said. Pendergest Holt told him “maybe two or
three days before the FBI and the receiver shut us down” that
she managed just a fraction of the bank’s portfolio.  Regional Teams  Stanford organized brokers into regional teams that
competed to sell the most CDs every quarter. Team names ranged
from the Miami Money Machine for Stanford’s top producers in
South Florida to the Aztec Eagles for his Mexican operation.
Prosecutors showed jurors a scorecard that Green said showed
sales by these “superstars” were as much as $323 million in
2006, which was 110 percent of their goal.  Green said Stanford clearly ran the company, in his
opinion. He recalled an instance where Stanford heatedly
objected to a decision made by Davis.  “‘I don’t know who Jim Davis thinks he is,’” Green said
he remembered Stanford shouting. “‘This is my company.’ I know
that he talked to Mr. Davis about it, and I’m sure he gave him
an earful. Mr. Davis wasn’t very nice to me for some time”
after the incident.  The criminal case is U.S. v. Stanford, 09-cr-342, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  Texas  (Houston). The SEC
case against Stanford is Securities and Exchange Commission v.
Stanford International Bank, 09-cv-298, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Texas ( Dallas ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston
at   laurel@calkins.us.com ;
Andrew M. Harris in  Chicago  at 
 aharris16@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha in  San Francisco  at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net . 