-- Stiglitz Says European Leaders Showing No Plans to Spur Economic Growth
-- B y   S a n d r i n e   R a s t e l l o   a n d   T o m   K e e n e
-- 2012-01-26T18:56:38Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/stiglitz-says-europe-repeats-growth-platitudes-without-a-plan-tom-keene.html
Nobel Prize-winning economist  Joseph Stiglitz  said he sees no indication from European officials that
they have a plan to support growth in the region as they reduce
budget deficits to quell their debt crisis.  Stiglitz, who is attending the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos, Switzerland, said the speeches he’s heard there have made
him more pessimistic.  “They repeat the same kind of platitudes, ‘we need to get
growth, austerity won’t be enough,’ but no country policies that
will achieve growth,” Stiglitz said today in a Bloomberg
Television interview on “Surveillance Midday” with  Tom Keene 
from Davos. “I haven’t heard a single thing here that has given
me a sense that the European leaders have any sense of what”
they need to do and will do.  The  International Monetary Fund  this week cut its forecast
for global growth and warned that the European debt crisis could
plunge the world into another recession. It cautioned countries
that have fiscal room to maneuver, including in the euro area,
against “overdoing fiscal adjustment in the short term”
because it may damp growth further and damage market confidence.  Earlier today, World Bank President Robert Zoellick said
Germany and others in the 17-country euro region need to do more
to help Italy grow as it takes measures to reduce its public
debt.  Italian Public  “If we’re sitting here six months from now and the Italian
public says enough’s enough, then what happens to  Europe ?”
Zoellick said in an interview with Bloomberg Television’s  Erik Schatzker  in Davos.  Stiglitz said there’s still a “serious risk of contagion”
coming out of Greece, where talks on a debt swap to lower
Greece’s borrowing continue.  Risks are still here because of a lack of transparency in
financial markets, Stiglitz said.  “Nobody knows who owes what to whom, where the risks of a
Greek default are,” according to the Columbia professor.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sandrine Rastello in Washington at 
 srastello@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  