-- Superior Energy Falls as U.S. Fracking Costs Grow
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e
-- 2012-01-26T23:49:12Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/superior-energy-falls-as-u-s-fracking-costs-grow-atlanta-mover.html
(Corrects description of company in first paragraph.)  Superior Energy Services Inc. (SPN) , which
is trying to buy a provider of hydraulic-fracturing services in
North America, fell the most in more than two months as more of
its contracting peers report additional costs associated with
moving from natural gas to oil basins in the U.S. and Canada.  Superior, based in New Orleans, dropped 6.1 percent to
close at $25.78 in New York, the biggest decline since Nov. 9.  Carbo Ceramics Inc. (CRR) , the largest provider of manufactured
materials for the technique used to extract oil and gas from
shale, said in an earnings statement today that fourth-quarter
costs increased because of its shift to oil basins. Gas
producers such as Chesapeake Energy Corp. and EQT Corp. have
announced they’re curtailing production because of low prices.  “Superior seems to be taking its lumps,” Trey Stolz, an
analyst at Iberia Capital Partners in  New Orleans , who rates the
shares “outperform” and owns none, said in an interview. “The
momentum is snowballing on this North American logistics issue
with the Carbo earnings release today.”  Halliburton Co. (HAL)  and  Baker Hughes Inc. (BHI) , two of the three
largest fracking service providers, reported similar costs
earlier this week for moving crews into North American oil
basins.  There isn’t a lack of total demand for fracking work, James C. West, an analyst at Barclays Capital in New York, said today
in a telephone interview.  “People want to frack wells,” he said. “The transitory
period here is just negatively impacting everybody’s results.”  Superior said Oct. 10 it agreed to buy Houston-based
 Complete Production Services Inc. (CPX)  Complete had about 315,000
horsepower in fracking equipment for North America as of June
30, the companies said at the time. The deal is awaiting final
approval.  To contact the reporter on this story:
David Wethe in Houston  at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  