-- U.K. Prosecutor’s Fraud Chief Joins Jones Day as Departures Rise
-- B y   L i n d s a y   F o r t a d o
-- 2012-01-26T14:30:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/u-k-prosecutor-s-fraud-chief-joins-jones-day-as-departures-rise.html
Glyn Powell, a senior attorney at
the U.K. Serious Fraud Office, left the agency to join law firm
 Jones Day , adding to the number of departures under the current
director.  Powell, the former head of fraud and assurance at the SFO,
joined the U.S. firm this week after eight years at the agency.
He oversaw investigations of the U.K. operations of  Bernard
Madoff , who is serving a 150-year sentence for operating the
largest  Ponzi scheme  in history, and Asil Nadir, the former
Polly Peck International Plc chief executive officer who went on
trial this week in  London  accused of stealing 150 million pounds
($235 million).  “Glyn’s criminal experience is a perfect adjunct to the
civil team here,” said Craig Shuttleworth, the head of
litigation in London at Jones Day, a Washington-based firm that
according to its  website  has clients including Bank of America
Corp., Deutsche Bank AG and Goldman Sachs Group Inc.  In the past two years, many of the SFO’s top lawyers have
left for the private sector. Keith McCarthy, the former chief
investigator, departed in December to join the accounting firm
PricewaterhouseCoopers. General Counsel  Vivian Robinson , Charlie
Monteith, a senior policy adviser, Robert Amaee, head of anti-
corruption and the proceeds-of-crime units and  Kathleen Harris ,
the prior head of fraud, also left the agency last year for U.S.
law firms.  Powell is being replaced on an interim basis at the SFO by
case managers Jane de Lozey and Claire Whitaker until a new
director takes over in April, David Jones, an SFO spokesman,
said.  Richard Alderman , the director since 2008, will be
replaced by  David Green , a barrister who was formerly the
director of the Crown Prosecution Service’s Fraud Group.  Facing dwindling resources from government budget cuts and
the staff departures, the SFO has closed at least four major
probes in the past two years without bringing any charges.  “Glyn made a tremendous contribution to the success that
the SFO has achieved and we wish him well,” said Phillippa
Williamson, the agency’s CEO. “His SFO experience will
undoubtedly provide benefit.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Lindsay Fortado in London at 
 lfortado@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Aarons at 
 aaarons@bloomberg.net  