-- U.K’s ‘Disguised’ CO2 Tax May Harm Industry, Lawmakers Say
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   A i r l i e
-- 2012-01-26T13:08:34Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/u-k-s-disguised-co2-tax-may-harm-industry-lawmakers-say-2-.html
Britain’s plan to tax carbon dioxide
from power stations on top of European emissions costs may harm
industry and raise energy bills without helping the environment,
according to a panel of lawmakers.  “A revenue-raising exercise disguised as a green policy
won’t help anybody,”  Tim Yeo , chairman of the U.K.’s energy and
climate change committee, said in an e-mailed statement.
“Instead of going it alone, the Chancellor would be better off
working with other European governments to make the EU Emissions
Trading System more effective.”  The committee, a cross-party panel of lawmakers that
published a report today after a  four-month inquiry  into
government emissions policy, said the tax risked making U.K.
energy prices higher than the rest of  Europe . That may boost the
nation’s power imports via cables linking it to  France  and the
Netherlands, which do not have the additional costs.  “It seems that politico-economic uncertainties are back on
the agenda for U.K. generators,”  Chris Rogers , a utilities
analyst at Bloomberg Industries in London, said by e-mail.  Britain’s energy prices have been among the lowest in
Europe for at least the last four years, according to the most
recent Eurostat figures compiled by Bloomberg. The country gets
about 80 percent of its electricity from a mixture of coal and
natural gas, so global fuel costs influence prices. The U.K.
government said November it will help energy intensive
industries with higher costs as a result of the tax.  ‘Go No Slower’  Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  “has made clear
that the U.K. should go no slower but also no faster than other
European countries in cutting emissions,” the Treasury said in
an e-mailed statement today. “To do this we need to reduce our
emissions in the way that works best for circumstances in this
country.”  The tax will raise 740 million pounds for the government in
its first year, according to documents posted on the Treasury’s
website in March. Osborne is scheduled to present the country’s
annual budget on March 21, where he may announce the carbon tax
for 2014. Last March, he set the tax at 4.94 pounds a metric ton
for 2013, based on a so-called floor price of 16 pounds.  “It’s a very small fraction of total  tax revenue , compared
to other fiscal decisions,” Matthew Sinclair, director of
Taxpayers’ Alliance in London, said by telephone. “A tax that
doesn’t raise a lot of revenue can be an indicator that it’s not
efficient, and could be avoided.” German and French industry
often get discounts on their energy bills, according to a
November  report  Sinclair wrote on the impact of carbon costs on
industry.  Carbon Price Support  The measure is in addition to Britain’s participation in
the EU’s cap-and-trade program which limits emissions from
factories, power stations and airlines. European carbon permits
for December 2013, the first year in which the tax will be
applied, rose 2.4 percent to 8.41 euros a metric ton as of 10
a.m. on  London ’s ICE Futures Europe exchange. The allowances
traded as high as 20.22 euros in May  “Unless the price of carbon is increased at an EU-wide
level, taking action on our own will have no overall effect on
emissions other than to out-source them,” said Yeo, a member of
the  Conservative Party , and also  chairman  of TMO Renewables
Ltd., a developer of biofuels, and AFC Energy Plc, a maker of
fuel cells.  The Treasury sets its carbon tax two years in advance to
allow power generators to prepare. The tax for 2014 will be
calculated using the average market price for December 2014
permits in the last twelve months. The government set the floor
at 16 pounds a ton, rising to 30 pounds by 2020. The figures are
adjusted for inflation.  Tax May Double  The carbon tax for 2014 would be set at 9.78 pounds, should
it be calculated today,  Lakis Athanasiou , a former U.K.
utilities analyst at Evolution Securities and now an independent
analyst in London, said by telephone today. That’s nearly double
that for the first year of the tax.  Britain should focus on a “strong and stable” carbon
price within the European trading system by increasing the
bloc’s carbon ambitions from a 20 percent below 1990 target to a
30 percent cut, as well as reducing supply in the market by
setting aside permits, according to the report.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Airlie in London at 
 cairlie@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  