-- U.S. Drought Monitor Report for the Week Ending Jan. 24 (Text)
-- B y   T e r r y   B a r r e t t
-- 2012-01-26T13:28:56Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/u-s-drought-monitor-report-for-the-week-ending-jan-24-text-.html
Following is the text of the weekly
 U.S. Drought Monitor  as released by the National Drought
Mitigation Center in Lincoln,  Nebraska :  Summary: Locally heavy rain provided drought relief in portions
of the Southeast, while much-needed, locally heavy snow
stabilized some western snowpacks.  However, much of the west
continued to wrestle with precipitation deficits and below-
normal snow-water storage.  Mid-Atlantic and Northeast: The region’s first widespread winter
storm dropped a mix of snow, ice, and rain.  Liquid total
precipitation equivalent was generally less than an inch, but
was enough to stave off any expansion of Abnormal Dryness (D0)
in New England and the lower Delmarva.  Over the past 90 days,
precipitation has tallied less than 70 percent of normal in
southeastern Virginia and southern portions of the Maryland and
 Virginia  Eastern Shore; rain or snow will be needed to prevent
degradation into Moderate Drought (D1) over the upcoming weeks.  Southeast: Locally heavy rain in northern and western portions
of the region contrasted with increasingly dry conditions
farther south and east.   A storm and its attendant cold front
dropped 2 to 4 inches of rain across  Alabama  and northern and
western portions of  Georgia , resulting in some 1-category
improvements in the latest drought designation.  However, the
rain largely bypassed the core Extreme (D3) to Exceptional (D4)
Drought areas of Georgia, resulting in little if any
improvements across central and southern portions of the state.
In  Florida , light to moderate showers (0.25 to 2.0 inches) were
reported from the panhandle toward Ocala.  Dry weather prevailed
across the remainder of the state, which coupled with declining
streamflows, elevated fire danger, and increasing short-term
precipitation deficits resulted in expansion of Moderate Drought
(D1) across Lake Okeechobee toward  West Palm Beach .  In
northeastern Florida, Severe Drought (D2) was expanded southward
toward Gainesville to reflect streamflows in the 5th percentile
(or lower) and 90-day precipitation deficits of 6 inches or
greater.  Farther north, no change was made to the Carolinas ,
with many areas receiving a half inch or more of rain; however,
the southern and eastern portions of North and South Carolina
continue to teeter toward drought intensification, with short-
and long-term Standardized Precipitation Indices (SPI)
indicating varying degrees of Drought.  Delta: Scattered showers, some heavy, were reported across
southern and eastern portions of the region.  The heaviest rain,
which tallied 2 to 3 inches in central  Louisiana  and southern
 Mississippi , brought some minor improvements to D0 (Abnormally
Dry) and D1 (Moderate Drought) in these locales.  The rest of
the region remained unchanged.  South-Central U.S.: Despite dry, warmer-than-normal weather
(temperatures averaging up to 14F above normal), little if any
change was made to the drought designation from Texas northward
into southern Kansas.  In fact, locally heavy rain has been
falling over the region since the data cutoff time (12z Tuesday,
January 24) for this week’s drought depiction; impacts from the
rain will be addressed in next week’s U.S. Drought Monitor.  A
small increase in D0 (Abnormally Dry) was made in northeastern
 Oklahoma  to reflect 60-day precipitation deficits up to 3 inches
(locally more).  Central and Northern Plains: Seasonably cold conditions
prevailed, with some snow falling from the northern High Plains
eastward across northern  South Dakota  toward Sioux Falls.  To
the south of this area of snow, D0 (Abnormally Dry) conditions
were expanded to include much of northern Nebraska.
Precipitation in this area has totaled locally less than 50
percent of normal over the past 60 to 90 days, with the 3-month
Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) highlighting this same
area as being unfavorably dry.  Midwest: Drought areas of the Midwest - which extend from
northwestern Iowa into  Minnesota  and eastern-most portions of
the Dakotas - reported mostly dry weather and seasonable
temperatures (averaging within 2 to 4F of normal) during the
past week.  Changes to drought designation were generally minor,
and included expansion of Moderate Drought (D1) across
northwestern Minnesota and northeastern North Dakota.
Standardized Precipitation Indices (SPI) out to 6 months
indicated increasingly dry conditions in this region.  Likewise,
90-day precipitation totals are running 25 percent of normal or
less north of Grand Forks, and soil moisture percentile rankings
are in the 10th percentile or lower across much of northern
Minnesota.  On the other hand, drought impacts at this time of
year are generally negligible and difficult to ascertain due to
the cold; should drier-than-normal conditions continue, this
area will have to be closely monitored as we ease into spring.  Western U.S.: Locally heavy, much-needed precipitation in
western and northern portions of the region contrasted with
ongoing dryness and increasing drought from the southern Great
Basin into the central Rockies.  A series of Pacific
disturbances generated moderate to heavy rain and mountain snow
from central  California  northward into the Pacific Northwest.
Heavy snow was reported in the Sierra  Nevada  (3-8 inches liquid
equivalent, locally more) and from the Klamath Mountains (10
inches or more liquid equivalent) into the Cascade Range. Snow-
water equivalent in the Sierra improved, although many stations
were still in the 20th percentile or lower.  Nevertheless, the
precipitation provided a 1-category improvement in drought
designation in the Sierra, with D2 (Severe Drought) reduced to
D1 (Moderate Drought).  This area, however, will need to be
closely monitored over the upcoming weeks, with water-year-to-
date precipitation still averaging 50 percent of normal or less.
The heavy precipitation in the Klamath Mountains likewise
resulted in modest improvements to Abnormal Dryness (D0) and
Moderate Drought, with water-year-to-date precipitation ranging
from 50 percent of normal in the southern portions of the
Klamath to near normal closer to the Oregon border.   Heavy
precipitation in the Cascades boosted snow-water equivalents
into the 50th to 75th percentile (locally higher), with drought
not a concern in the mountains of the Pacific Northwest at this
time.  Valley locales east of the Cascades largely missed out on
the rain and snow, although a half inch or more in the D1 area
from southern  Washington  into north-central Oregon provided
beneficial moisture for winter wheat.  In northern and central
Idaho, moderate to heavy snow (2-6 inches liquid equivalent,
locally more) boosted mountain snowpacks and alleviated Abnormal
Dryness (D0).  By week’s end, snow-water equivalents had jumped
above the 40th percentile across much of the region, with yet
another storm poised to provide additional relief to the
southern portions of the state.  Meanwhile Moderate Drought (D1) was expanded from northwestern
Nevada eastward across north-central Utah and into portions of
northwestern and central Colorado, despite the arrival of some
much-needed rain and snow.   Even with the precipitation, which
totaled a half inch or less at lower elevations to locally more
than an inch (liquid equivalent) in the mountains, additional
detailed assessment led to a general increase in drought
designation.   Water-year precipitation is running 50 percent of
normal or less from northwestern and central Nevada eastward
into Utah and Colorado.   In particular, snow-water equivalent
percentile rankings range from: 3rd to 15th percentile in east-
central Nevada; 10th to 30th percentile in Utah’s central
Wasatch and less than the 20th percentile in the Uinta
Mountains; and 3rd to 30th percentile in northwestern and
central Colorado.  Further illustrating the dryness are the 3-
and 6-month Standardized Precipitation Indices, which both
depict D1 (or worse) conditions in the newly-expanded Moderate
Drought (D1) region.  Across the southern Rockies and Southwest, no changes were made
to the current drought classification.  Precipitation in the
shorter term (60 to 90 days) has been generally sufficient to
prevent drought intensification, with current snow-water
equivalent in the 40th percentile or higher over much of  Arizona 
and  New Mexico .  Alaska ,  Hawaii , and Puerto Rico: In Alaska, bitterly cold
conditions continued, with temperatures averaging more than 20?F
below normal. Snow continued to fall across the southern half of
the state, with no concerns for drought.  In Hawaii, much of the
state was dry, although rain was reported on Kauai.  With the
ongoing dryness and reports of pastures in very poor condition,
Extreme Drought (D3) was expanded northward on the Big Island,
while Abnormal Dryness (D0) was expanded to encompass all areas
from  Oahu  to the Big Island.  On Puerto Rico, light to moderate
showers (1-2 inches, locally more) fell across the northeastern
quarter of the island, with no drought concerns at this time.  Looking Ahead: A moisture-laden storm system will provide
widespread, locally heavy rain from central and eastern  Texas 
into the Delta and Southeast, although rain is expected to
diminish as a trailing cold front sweeps across Florida.  Rain
will also fall in the Mid-Atlantic and Northeast, with snow
likely in northern New England. Meanwhile, the last in a rapid
succession of Pacific storms will bring additional rain and
mountain snow to the Northwest as well as the central and
northern Rockies.  Generally dry weather is expected to return
to California and the Southwest.  The NWS 6- to 10-day outlook
for January 31 to February 4 calls for above-normal temperatures
over much of the contiguous U.S., with cooler than normal
conditions confined to southern Florida.  Drier-than-normal
weather is expected from the central and southern Rockies into
California and from the southern Delta into the southern
Atlantic Coast.  Meanwhile, above-normal precipitation is
anticipated from the central Corn Belt into the Great Lakes
Region.  SOURCE: National Drought Mitigation Center  To contact the reporter on this story:
Terry Barrett in Washington at 
 tbarrett1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Alex Tanzi at   atanzi@bloomberg.net  