-- U.S. Automakers Seen Losing Market Share
-- B y   C r a i g   T r u d e l l
-- 2012-01-26T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/u-s-automakers-seen-losing-market-share-amid-2012-growth-cars.html
U.S. automakers led by  General
Motors Co. (GM)  may lose share in their home market this year, a
setback that might be assuaged by holding onto some of their
gains against disaster-stricken Japanese rivals in 2011.  GM,  Ford Motor Co. (F)  and Chrysler Group LLC, coming off a
year in which all three added share for the first time since
1988, may drop a combined 1.3 percent of U.S. market share in
2012, according to a Bloomberg survey of five analysts. As
 Toyota Motor Corp. (7203)  and  Honda Motor Co. (7267)  recover from Japan’s
tsunami and  Thailand ’s floods, they may find stiffer competition
limiting their combined slice of the market to where it was
seven years ago.  The U.S. automakers may each increase sales by less than
the total market’s growth this year, according to all five
analysts surveyed. While falling  unemployment , rising  consumer
confidence  and the need to replace aging vehicles will drive
demand, increased Japanese output and improved competition from
Korean brands and  Volkswagen AG (VOW)  will test  Detroit ’s discipline
on protecting profit rather than simply selling products.  “Market-share loss is never positive, but the U.S.
automakers are still going to grow,”  Jesse Toprak , an analyst
at the auto-pricing researcher TrueCar.com, said in a phone
interview. “They can’t lose sight of their new emphasis, which
has been improving their cost structures, making cars people
want to buy and selling the product instead of the incentive.”  Sales may rise this year to 13.6 million vehicles, the
average estimate of the five analysts, from 12.8 million in
2011, continuing the recovery from 2009’s 27-year low of 10.4
million cars and light trucks.  Lost Share  GM, which regained global sales leadership last year, may
fall to 19 percent of the U.S. market, from 19.6 percent last
year, analysts estimate. Ford may drop to 16.3 percent from 16.8
percent and  Auburn Hills , Michigan-based Chrysler may decline to
10.5 percent from 10.7 percent. The three gained a combined 2
points of share last year, according to Autodata Corp.  Asia ’s largest automaker, Toyota, may capture 13.8 percent
of the U.S. market this year, from 12.9 percent last year, and
Tokyo-based Honda may take 9.5 percent, from 9 percent, analysts
estimate.  Aside from their tsunami- and flood-stricken performance
last year, combined market share for Toyota City, Japan-based
Toyota and Honda will be the lowest since 2005, according to the
Bloomberg survey, which interviewed analysts from LMC
Automotive, AutoPacific Inc., Edmunds.com, TrueCar.com and
Kelley Blue Book.  The last time Ford, GM and Chrysler all lost share in their
home market was 2008, a year before the latter two tumbled into
government-backed bankruptcies. A decade ago, the three
automakers controlled 63 percent of the U.S. market, excluding
Mercedes-Benz sales by what was then called DaimlerChrysler AG.  2011 Profits  While U.S. automakers’ combined share was 47 percent last
year, their position in the market has proven lucrative after
years of restructuring. Through three quarters last year, GM
earned $8.47 billion, and Ford made $6.6 billion. Chrysler
forecast its first annual net income. The three promised to add
20,000 jobs for at least 34 factories in contracts negotiated
with the  United Auto Workers  last year.  GM, Ford and Chrysler also are introducing new compact
cars, midsize sedans and small sport-utility vehicles that will
temper rebounds by Toyota and Honda, said Jessica Caldwell, an
analyst for researcher Edmunds.com. Those entries include
Detroit-based GM’s Chevrolet Malibu, Ford’s Fusion and Escape,
and Chrysler’s Dodge Dart.  “Even though Toyota and Honda will inevitably do better --
it’s hard to go backwards after last year -- it’s going to be an
extremely challenging marketplace, and more so than ever in the
segments that they’ve dominated,” Caldwell, who is based in
Santa Monica,  California , said in a phone interview.  Hyundai-Kia’s Growth  Hyundai Motor Co. (005380)  and  Kia Motors Corp. (000270) , which last year
more than doubled the U.S. market share they held in 2005, may
claim 9 percent of industry sales in 2012, according to the
survey. The Seoul-based affiliates had 8.9 percent market share
last year.  Hyundai and Kia’s growth will slow in 2012 after last
year’s combined 1.1 percentage point share gain on sales
increases of 20 percent or more for each company.  John Krafcik ,
chief executive officer of Hyundai’s U.S. sales unit, said Jan.
5 that the automaker would emphasize vehicle quality and
perception gains ahead of sales growth this year and hasn’t
announced a target for deliveries.  Nissan’s Goal  Nissan Motor Co. (7201) ’s market share may slip in 2012, after
being surpassed by Hyundai-Kia in the U.S. for the first time
last year, according to the Bloomberg survey. Analysts estimate
the Yokohama, Japan-based automaker’s share will slide to 8
percent from 8.2 percent last year. The company gained 0.4 point
of share in 2011.  Nissan was less affected than Toyota and Honda in 2011 by
the March tsunami in  Japan  and floods beginning in October in
Thailand because it began the year with higher inventories and
had fewer factories affected by the disasters. Brian Carolin,
Nissan’s U.S. sales chief, said Jan. 9 that the automaker is
targeting a 2012 sales gain of at least 10 percent and has a
short-term goal of outselling Honda in the country.  Last year, Honda deliveries topped Nissan’s by less than
105,000.  Nissan’s Altima sedan and Sentra compact are “core
products at the end of their life cycle,” Ed Kim, an analyst at
AutoPacific in Tustin, California, said in a phone interview.
Nissan may recover and eventually exceed its 2011 market share
in 2013 after it begins selling redesigned versions of those
cars later this year, he said.  Volkswagen’s Challenges  Volkswagen (VOW3) , which plans to become the world’s biggest
automaker by 2018, may capture 3.8 percent market share with
combined deliveries of its Volkswagen and Audi brands, a gain of
0.3 percentage points from a year earlier. Three of the five
analysts surveyed by Bloomberg estimated the automaker would
fall short of its goal for 500,000 vehicle sales this year.  Buyers located away from the coasts are less familiar with
Volkswagen, and its dealer network has a limited presence in the
middle of the country, said Toprak, who is based in  Santa Monica 
and estimates Volkswagen and Audi will deliver 496,100 vehicles.  “On the East Coast or in California, they’re fine,”
Toprak said. “But go ask somebody in  Nebraska  what they think
about VW. Hyundai had the same problem. They’re overcoming it,
but it takes a while.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Craig Trudell in Southfield, Michigan, at 
 ctrudell1@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jamie Butters at 
 jbutters@bloomberg.net  