-- U.S. 5- to 10-Year Yield Gap Widens on Fed Forecasts; Fidelity Likes TIPS
-- B y   W e s   G o o d m a n   a n d   K r i s t i n e   A q u i n o
-- 2012-01-26T03:00:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/u-s-5-to-10-year-yield-gap-widens-on-fed-forecasts-fidelity-likes-tips.html
The difference between U.S. five-and
10-year yields widened to the most in almost three months after
the  Federal Reserve  said yesterday it plans to keep its target
for overnight bank lending low through late 2014.  The  spread  increased to as much as 1.21 percentage points,
the most since Oct. 28. The central bank said it will extend its
low-rate pledge from the middle of 2013, sending five-year rates
to a record low yesterday. Longer-term Treasuries lagged behind
on concern efforts to spur the economy will lead to inflation in
the years ahead.  Fidelity Investments , the Boston-based fund
company that oversees $1.52 trillion, is favoring Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities.  “By keeping rates low for a longer period, beyond two
years, the five-year will benefit most,” said Bin Gao, head of
rate research for  Asia  and the Pacific at Bank of America
Merrill Lynch in  Hong Kong . “It increases the inflation risk,
so 10-years will not rally that much.” The company is one of
the 21 primary dealers that trade with the Fed.  Benchmark 10-year  yields  declined one basis point, or 0.01
percentage point, to 1.98 percent as of 11:26 a.m. in  Tokyo ,
according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices. The 2 percent
security due in November 2021 rose 3/32, or 94 cents per face
amount, to 100 1/8.  Five-year  yields  slid one basis point from yesterday’s
closing level to 0.80 percent. The record low yesterday was 0.76
percent.  The Treasury Department is scheduled to sell $29 billion of
seven-year securities today.  Bond Buying  Policy makers are “prepared to provide further monetary
accommodation” and bond buying is “an option that’s certainly
on the table,” Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said after
officials gathered for a meeting yesterday.  Shorter-term Treasuries tend to track what the central bank
does with its  target  for overnight lending, while longer
maturities are more influenced by the inflation outlook.  The  difference  between yields on 10-year notes and Treasury
Inflation Protected Securities, a gauge of trader expectations
for consumer prices over the life of the debt, was 2.14
percentage points. The figure was one basis point away from the
10-year average.  In a separate statement of its long-range goals and
strategy, the Fed specified a 2 percent goal for inflation, as
measured by the annual change in the  price index  for personal
consumption expenditures.  “I have preferred Treasury Inflation Protected Securities
to regular Treasuries recently,” Bill Irving, the manager of
the $5.48 billion  Fidelity Government Income Fund (FGOVX) , wrote in a
report on the company’s  website  yesterday. “Given how
accommodative the Fed has been, and given the possibility that
the economy’s strength could surprise to the upside, I think the
inflation protection TIPS can offer is worth considering.”  The  fund  returned 7.6 percent in the past year, beating 55
percent of its competitors, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Wes Goodman in Singapore at 
 wgoodman@bloomberg.net ;
Kristine Aquino in Singapore at 
 kaquino1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Rocky Swift at 
 rswift5@bloomberg.net  