-- U.S. Spy Agencies Look to Cloud Computing, Clapper Says
-- B y   V i o l a   G i e n g e r
-- 2012-01-26T20:19:15Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/u-s-spy-agencies-look-to-cloud-computing-benefits-clapper-says.html
U.S. Director of National
Intelligence James Clapper said cloud computing will play a
major role as the nation’s spy agencies work to integrate
computer and  information systems  to share more data securely.  Cloud computing has “huge potential for achieving savings
and promoting integration,” Clapper told an audience today at
the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a policy
group in Washington.  Cloud computing lets users run programs and store data over
the Internet. Along with it will come a requirement for security
and privacy, especially as intelligence agencies work toward the
“big idea” of a joint information-technology system, Clapper
said.  “Over the next five years, I think we’ll make some serious
and notable changes” in systems for labeling, tagging,
monitoring and accounting for information shared across
agencies, he said.  The 2010 WikiLeaks episode, in which hundreds of thousands
of classified records and State Department cables were made
public, spurred the drive to improve security while ensuring
agencies and personnel get the information they need to protect
and defend the U.S.  Sharing Intelligence  Intelligence agencies are trying to devise a way of tagging
and labeling data to separate more sensitive information about
sources and methods used to collect intelligence from the
substance that operatives, analysts and officials need. The aim
is to allow better information-sharing among traditionally
secretive and turf-sensitive agencies without jeopardizing
security.  The U.S. also will spend more on auditing and monitoring
its information systems to track use of data and prevent
unauthorized access, Clapper said.  “We need to develop a national insider threat policy,” he
said. Bradley Manning, a U.S. Army private stationed in  Iraq  at
the time, is charged in military proceedings with illegally
passing the classified information published on the WikiLeaks
website in 2010.  President  Barack Obama  in October established a  task force 
to develop a government-wide program to detect and stop
potential insider threats, when he issued an  executive order 
outlining responsibilities of federal agencies for securing
classified information on their  computer networks .  The administration also is conducting a review of the
applicability and usefulness of commercial imagery, which might
allow agencies to share more information with fewer concerns
about security. Clapper said the study may be completed “in the
next couple of months.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Viola Gienger in  Washington  at 
 vgienger@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at 
 msilva34@bloomberg.net  