-- U.S. Deals Aiding Blind Draw Scrutiny as Rivals Struggle
-- B y   D a v i d   L e r m a n   a n d   N i c k   T a b o r e k
-- 2012-01-26T15:35:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/u-s-deals-aiding-blind-draw-scrutiny-as-rivals-struggle.html
Angela Meredith, who is legally
blind, says she owes her job to a U.S. government program that
reserves contracts for disabled workers.  “I wouldn’t be able to find work anywhere else,” said
Meredith, 58, who earns $7.75 an hour making army uniforms at a
factory near Baltimore, under a much-praised initiative started
in 1938 by President  Franklin D. Roosevelt .  Now, amid a still-struggling  U.S. economy  and a government
poised to reduce  spending , a counter view is emerging of
programs that favor groups such as the disabled and prisoners:
It holds that such set-asides are unfair to companies seeking
government work.  “We’re slowly seeing ourselves squeezed out of the game,”
said Kurt Wilson, vice president of business development and
government affairs at Selma, Alabama-based American Apparel
Inc., one of the largest military uniform companies, with about
$100 million in annual revenue.  As the Pentagon reduces the number of troops, for-profit
uniform suppliers may see a greater share of the market exempted
from regular competition because of set-asides. Such programs
already receive about half the contracting dollars in the almost
$2 billion-a-year military uniform industry.  Biggest Share  The biggest share of orders awarded without competition
goes to AbilityOne, the program that benefits workers at the
plant near Baltimore, run by Blind Industries and Services of
 Maryland . AbilityOne received $557 million in uniform orders in
2010, or 31 percent of the $1.82 billion the  Defense Department (USBODEFN) 
spent that year, according to federal procurement data compiled
by Bloomberg.  Begun as an effort to boost employment among the blind, the
program now known as AbilityOne expanded in 1971 to include
those with other disabilities. Today, the organization employs
about 47,000 people, compared with 7,500 in 1980, according to
its  website .  Total AbilityOne contract revenue, for services like
janitorial work and products such as ball point pens as well as
uniforms, rose 6.4 percent to $2.8 billion in fiscal 2010 from
the previous year, even as total government contract spending
declined. The government’s fiscal year begins Oct. 1.  Federal Prison Industries , a rehabilitation program run by
the  Justice Department  that also dates to the 1930s, received
orders for military uniforms valued at $132 million in fiscal
2010, according to the organization’s annual report.  An additional $221 million in uniform orders was set aside
for small businesses, defined as those with no more than 500
employees. That left about $907 million, or 49.9 percent,
available for unrestricted competition, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  Plant Closed  The squeeze on private uniform makers was evident in
 Alabama  on Jan. 9, when American Apparel, which isn’t related to
the publicly traded clothing retailer of the same name,
announced plans to close its Fort Deposit plant and eliminate
about 175 jobs.  The decision meant Rachel Proveaux, a 30-year-old mother of
an eight-week-old boy, returned from maternity leave to find
herself out of a job.  “I’m sending out resumes anywhere I can find,” she said
in an interview. “They should not set aside so many contracts
for small business. To me, that’s not fair.”  While the company’s officials didn’t fault the program for
the disabled in particular, they said the large share of
contracts awarded through set-aside programs has left little
work for competitive bidding. They also said the government ends
up paying more than it should, sometimes for inferior products.  ‘Denying Our Troops’  “Price, delivery and quality are being sacrificed to no
good purpose,” C. Lash Harrison, chairman of American Apparel’s
board of directors, said in a September letter to President
 Barack Obama . “We are denying our troops the best if we do not
allow competition.”  U.S. Representative Terri Sewell, a Democrat from
Birmingham, Alabama, agrees.  “While I fully support the Pentagon’s policies to assist
various restricted sources,” the lack of competition in
programs such as AbilityOne and Federal Prison Industries “has
resulted in an increase in prices paid by the services for
uniforms,” she wrote in a Sept. 8 letter to the Defense
Logistics Agency, the biggest buyer of military uniforms.  Paying More  The agency paid as much as 17 percent more for AbilityOne-
manufactured uniforms compared with those made by large
commercial businesses, according to a Bloomberg analysis of
$2.23 billion in uniform spending by the agency during the past
decade.  For example, the data provided by the agency showed it paid
an average price of $33.98 for women’s  Air Force  coats, 17
percent more than the average price of $29.14 charged by large
companies. AbilityOne contractors sold the agency Army combat
coats at an average premium of 4.6 percent, for $34.67 per coat
compared with $33.13.  Before awarding orders, the government has to determine
whether the prison workshops or organizations for the disabled
can provide a “fair and reasonable” price, Nancy Heimbaugh,
the senior procurement executive at the Defense Logistics
Agency, said in an Aug. 18 letter to U.S. Representative Mike Rogers, a Republican from Saks, Alabama, who has raised concerns
about combat uniform orders going to favored groups.  AbilityOne’s prices are “usually within the competitive
market range of what federal agencies would pay for other
similar projects,” George Selby, spokesman for the AbilityOne
Commission, a 15-member panel appointed by the president to
oversee the program, said in an e-mail.  Splitting the Business  Defense Department buyers have consistently awarded about a
third of uniform contracts to AbilityOne while splitting the
remainder between the private sector and Federal Prison
Industries since the mid-1990s, said Kevin Lynch, president of
National Industries for the Blind, which is part of AbilityOne.
That ratio will probably remain intact as the Pentagon reduces
its demand, he said in an interview.  The goal of the  Defense Logistics Agency  is to maintain
“appropriate balances” among the businesses, including large
companies, said Mimi Schirmacher, an agency spokeswoman.  There’s broad-based support for AbilityOne, said Robert Burton, a former deputy administrator of the Office of Federal
Procurement Policy and a partner at Venable LLP, a Washington-
based  law firm .  “Politically, it’s an untenable position not to be
supportive of AbilityOne,” Burton said.  Awards  recognizing support for the program have gone to
lawmakers including Tea Party Caucus member Representative Pete
Sessions, a Republican from  Texas , and Democratic Representative
 Barney Frank  of  Massachusetts .  Not Immune  AbilityOne won’t be immune to an expected decline in
contracting dollars, Burton said in an interview.  “There will be arguments made that they need to take a hit
just like the private sector,” he said.  For now, companies are taking sharper aim at work given to
Federal Prison Industries, said Kurt Courtney, director of
government relations for the American Apparel and Footwear
Association in Arlington, Virginia.  “It’s very hard for us to think that prisoners are working
and putting tax-paying, law-abiding citizens out of work,” he
said in an interview.  “We don’t want  China  to use prison labor, but what does
the  Department of Defense  do?” said Tom Kellim, president and
chief executive officer of Propper International Sales Inc. The
St. Louis-based clothing supplier has about 2,000 employees,
most of whom are in  Puerto Rico .  ‘Shrinking Market’  He didn’t criticize AbilityOne directly. “I’ve seen their
work,” he said in an interview. “It’s great work. But in a
shrinking market, everybody on the periphery” of mandatory
programs like AbilityOne and Federal Prison Industries “is
going to be affected.”  At the Baltimore-area factory where she works, Meredith
helps align camouflage fabric as it moves on a conveyor belt
toward automated blades.  Meredith says she dropped out of high school at 16 because
her trouble seeing made it difficult to keep up in class. She’s
had her present job for six years, and her employer provides
health insurance, paid vacation time and regular bonuses.  “This was a blessing for me,” she said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Lerman in Washington at 
 dlerman1@bloomberg.net ;
Nick Taborek in Washington at 
 ntaborek@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephanie Stoughton at 
 sstoughton@bloomberg.net  