-- U.S. Consumer Confidence Stabilizes in Bloomberg Index as Job Losses Slow
-- B y   B o b   W i l l i s
-- 2012-01-26T14:45:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/u-s-consumer-confidence-stabilizes-in-bloomberg-index-as-job-losses-slow.html
Consumer confidence  in the U.S.
steadied last week as fewer firings helped ease concern about
higher gasoline prices.  The  Bloomberg Consumer Comfort (COMFCOMF)  Index was minus 46.4 in the
period ended Jan. 22 after minus 47.4 the prior week. Confidence
among independent voters, which may be a swing group in the 2012
election, rose to its best level since April.  A drop in dismissals may be the first step to a further
pickup in hiring that will help underpin  consumer spending ,
which accounts for about 70 percent of the economy. Climbing
fuel costs, which also helped cut short a rebound in confidence
about a year ago, are again threatening to undermine households
as 2012 gets under way.  “Consumer confidence looks to have stabilized, albeit at
low levels,” said  Joseph Brusuelas , a senior economist at
Bloomberg LP in  New York . “Some of the better data flow in
manufacturing and labor market is likely the source of the
modest improvement.”  Stocks advanced after a gain in durable goods orders
exceeded forecasts and earnings at companies including
Caterpillar Inc. and Netflix Inc. exceeded projections. The
Standard & Poor’s 500 Index rose 0.3 percent to 1,329.48 at 9:36
a.m. in New York.  Orders (DGNOCHNG)  for goods meant to last at least three years climbed
3 percent in December after a revised 4.3 percent gain the prior
month that was more than previously estimated, Commerce
Department figures in Washington showed. Demand picked up for
machinery, metals, aircraft and motor vehicles.  Jobless Claims  A separate report showed  claims  for jobless benefits rose
last week, displaying the typical volatility around holidays.
Applications for unemployment insurance payments climbed by
21,000 to 377,000 in the week ended Jan. 21, up from an almost
four-year low in the prior period.  All three components of the weekly consumer comfort index
improved, today’s report showed. The measure of Americans’ views
of the current state of the economy rose to minus 81.1 from
minus 82.5 in the prior period, and the buying climate index
increased to minus 51.3 from minus 52.2. The gauge of personal
finances climbed to minus 6.9 from minus 7.5.  The changes masked even more marked shifts among those with
pessimistic views. The share of respondents saying the economy
was in poor shape, the weakest category, dropped to the lowest
level since March. Those saying it was a poor time to buy needed
goods and services fell to an almost one year low.  Registered Democrats were among the groups showing the
biggest decrease in fostering the most negative views.  Improving Economy  Data in recent weeks showed the economy strengthened at the
end of last year, easing concern that the European debt crisis
will cause the U.S. to falter.  The  unemployment rate  unexpectedly fell in December to 8.5
percent, the lowest since February 2009, and payrolls rose by
200,000, twice as much as in November, the Labor Department said
Jan. 6. A factory survey showed the fastest growth in December
in six months, while sales of existing homes were the highest
since January 2011.  Confidence among independents rose to minus 40.4 from minus
40.6, and that among registered Democrats climbed to minus 51.2
from the prior week’s minus 52.1. Sentiment among Republicans
rose to minus 47.3 from minus 50.3.  The average price of regular  unleaded gasoline  at the pump
has been hovering around $3.38 a gallon for the past two weeks,
up from a 10-month low of $3.20 reached on Dec. 20, according to
AAA, the biggest U.S. auto group.  Gasoline Prices  “Competing economic and political forces, depending how
they play out, may threaten the current tentative recovery in
consumer sentiment,”  Gary Langer , president of Langer Research
Associates LLC in New York, which compiles the index for
Bloomberg, said in a statement. “The price of gasoline is one
example; it’s been steadily climbing this month.”  Other confidence measures have improved. The Thomson
Reuters/ University of Michigan  preliminary index of consumer
sentiment climbed in January to the highest level in eight
months, the group said Jan. 13. The Conference Board’s index of
confidence in December also rose to the highest since April.  “We’re pleased that consumer confidence is up,” John Olin, chief financial officer at  Harley-Davidson Inc. (HOG)  told a
teleconference this week after the Milwaukee-based motorcycle
maker reported a fourth quarter profit on higher sales.
Nonetheless, he said, the company remained “cautious as we look
forward, given the tentative nature of the overall economy and
consumer confidence.”  Fed Policy  Federal Reserve policy makers yesterday in their first
meeting of the year said their benchmark  interest rate  will stay
low until at least late 2014 and projected that unemployment
will remain above 8 percent.  The Bloomberg Consumer Comfort Index is based on responses
to telephone interviews with a random sample of 1,000 consumers
at least 18 years old. Each week, 250 respondents are asked for
their views on the economy, personal finances and buying
climate; the percentage of negative responses for each measure
is subtracted from the share of positive views. The results are
then summed and divided by three. The most recent reading is
based on the average of responses over the previous four weeks.  The comfort index, which began in December 1985, averaged
minus 46.8 last year, compared with minus 45.7 for all of 2010
and minus 47.9 in 2009, the worst full-year reading on record,
the report showed.  The Bloomberg comfort index can range from 100, indicating
every participant in the survey had a positive response to all
three components, to minus 100, signaling all views were
negative. The margin of error for the headline reading is 3
percentage points.  Field work for the index is done by SSRS/Social Science
Research Solutions in Media,  Pennsylvania .  To contact the reporter on this story:
Bob Willis in  Washington  at 
 bwillis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  