-- U.S. House Democrats at Retreat Turn to Obama on Message
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r
-- 2012-01-26T16:13:42Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/u-s-house-democrats-at-retreat-turn-to-obama-on-message.html
Democrats in the U.S. House of
Representatives are taking a cue from President  Barack Obama  by
casting Republicans as the roadblocks preventing passage of
legislation to aid the middle class.  During their three-day strategy session at a resort on
 Maryland ’s Eastern Shore, Democrats plan to build on the sharp
contrast that Obama has been drawing.  “The problem with this Congress is there is no vision, and
that opens up a wide berth for us to appeal to the American
people, and we’re going to do that,” said Representative Joe Crowley of  New York , a member of the Democratic leadership.
“The American people want to see a functioning Congress.”  The theme of the Democratic party retreat, “Reigniting the
American Dream,” tracks closely with the central message of
Obama’s Jan. 24 State of the Union address.  The event, which began yesterday, doubles as a rally for
the party’s efforts to win back House seats lost in 2010. Among
the speakers are Obama, Vice President  Joe Biden , former
Pennsylvania governor  Ed Rendell , Commerce Secretary  John Bryson , Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee Chairman
Steve Israel of New York and Democratic National Committee
Chairwoman  Debbie Wasserman Schultz , who is also a House member
from  Florida .  Democrats now hold 191 seats, while Republicans have 242.
There are two vacancies.  New Posture  Rendell told reporters today that there is “a growing
sense of optimism” among House Democrats about their prospects
for returning the party to the majority in their chamber. He
said he urged them to “stand and defend” their “core
beliefs” and Obama’s policies such as the 2009 stimulus and the
health care law.  “You can’t run away from the president,” Rendell said in
a telephone interview before his speech. Too many Democrats in
2010 “tried to be Republican-lite,” he said.  “If you’re going to vote for a Republican, you’re going to
choose a real Republican over Republican-lite,” Rendell said.
“That’s where we went astray.”  Rendell said the primary fight for the Republican
presidential nomination and the signs of an improving economy
have strengthened Obama’s standing among voters.  Congressional candidates in many states have an extra
challenge this year because of redrawn district boundaries,
based on the 2010 census, that provide more safety to vulnerable
Republicans.  A Year Later  Still, House Democrats have a more assertive posture than a
year ago, when they spent their retreat reflecting on what went
wrong in the midterm election that delivered a 63-seat loss and
a Republican majority.  A year later, they maintain that public sentiment is
shifting back in their direction following bitter battles last
year over  government spending , an increase in the federal debt
limit and an extension of a two-percentage-point payroll tax
cut.  A Washington Post-ABC News poll conducted Jan. 12-15 put
the approval rating for Congress at 13 percent, the lowest ever
in that survey. A Dec. 15-18 Gallup poll placed the figure at 11
percent, a record low.  Democratic candidates plan to tell voters that if returned
to the majority, they can do better.  Candidate Bounty  “We’re in a very strong position,” said Representative
Allyson Schwartz, a Pennsylvania Democrat who heads the DCCC’s
candidate recruitment and retention efforts. “Many of these
candidates present themselves to us and say they want to step up
and do it, and they’re a wide variety -- mayors and sheriffs and
veterans and business people and people from state
legislatures.”  With the election a little more than nine months away,
political considerations are pressing enough to prompt at least
one member of the caucus to consider skipping the retreat.  Representative Raul Grijalva of  Arizona  said he may miss
all or part of the retreat so he can spend that time at home. A
former Democratic state senator, Amanda Aguirre, announced last
month that she was forming a committee to explore challenging
Grijalva in the state’s Aug. 28 primary.  “I want to check out my district first,” Grijalva said.
“Some of us might have primaries.”  Harder Line  Grijalva, who survived a tougher-than-anticipated race in
2010, said Democrats were better positioned “attitude-wise”
now than they were a year ago, in part because Obama is taking a
harder line with Republicans.  “In the House, our legs were not strong because there was
this effort to try to reach consensus, bipartisanship, and we
discovered, time after time, that the Republican majority -- and
the Tea Party faction in particular -- were not going to play
it,” he said.  Georgia Republican Representative  Tom Price  said Democrats
should move more in the direction of the majority party.  “Hopefully, they’ll come to the conclusion that they need
to encourage their leader, the president, to work with
Congress,” Price said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Katherine Rizzo at 
 krizzo5@bloomberg.net  