-- Humana’s McCallister Says He’s Open to Billion-Dollar Deals in Medicare
-- B y   J e f f r e y   M c C r a c k e n   a n d   S a r a h   F r i e r
-- 2012-01-26T21:22:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/humana-s-mccallister-says-he-s-open-to-billion-dollar-deals-in-medicare.html
Humana Inc. (HUM) , the second-largest
Medicare provider, is willing to spend $1 billion for deals that
would enable the company to expand in the U.S. government
program, Chief Executive Officer Michael McCallister said.  “We could do $1 billion-plus deals if we wanted to,”
McCallister said in an interview at the World Economic Forum’s
conference in Davos, Switzerland. “We have a lot of capacity
for something of that size. We’ve acquired a number of small
plans but we are open to something that expands us in
Medicare.”  The U.S. health-care law puts pressure on how much insurers
can be reimbursed for care and is expected to hurt profit
margins, said Chris Rigg, an analyst with Susquehanna Financial
Group in New York. Increasing the size of Humana’s Medicare
business, which already brings in more than $20 billion each
year, would help with costs, McCallister said.  Universal American Corp (UAM) .,  Coventry Health Care Inc. (CVH)  and
 Health Net Inc. (HNT)  are among companies focused on Medicare, the
government’s health plan for the elderly and disabled, said
Michael Manns, a Bloomberg Industries analyst. The companies,
with market values more than $1 billion, are the size Humana
would need to make an effect on earnings, Rigg said. Humana
probably will look at closely held companies, he said.  Humana fell 2.7 percent to $87.11 at the close in New York.
In 2010 and 2011, Humana was the best performer of the six
companies in the  S&P 500 Managed Health Index .  Stock Prices  Universal, based in  Rye Brook , New York, fell 3.6 percent
to $10.87. Coventry, based in Bethesda,  Maryland , fell 2.7
percent to $29.54. Health Net, based in  Woodland Hills ,
California, gained less than 1 percent to $35.81. None of the
companies returned calls requesting comment.  Humana has acquired several smaller health insurers to
expand in Medicare.  Aetna Inc. (AET) ’s Chief Executive Officer Mark Bertolini said
earlier this month that he is looking for deals in government
programs. Cigna is  buying  HealthSpring Inc., which had more than
$1.3 billion in revenue from Medicare in the third quarter.
 UnitedHealth Group Inc. (UNH) , the largest insurer and Medicare
provider by revenue, will continue to get bigger, Rigg said.  “The market thinks there needs to be more consolidation in
the managed-care area and it might be right,” McCallister said.
“There are a lot of small players with 20,000 to 150,000
members and they will continue to be bought up.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jeffrey McCracken in Davos,  Switzerland  at 
 jmccracken3@bloomberg.net ;
Sarah Frier in New York at 
 sfrier1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reg Gale at 
 rgale5@bloomberg.net  