-- Thunderdome Election Result of Rhetoric Not Ideology: Ezra Klein
-- B y   E z r a   K l e i n
-- 2012-01-26T00:10:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/thunderdome-election-due-to-rhetoric-not-reality-commentary-by-ezra-klein.html
To listen to the candidates, the
2012 election is an epochal clash between irreconcilable
worldviews. It is the Alliance against the Empire, the elves
versus the orcs, the forces of capitalism battling the forces of
compassion.  They’re right about one thing: The 2012 election matters. A
lot. The winning party will probably reap long-term political
benefits from holding office during an economic recovery. As for
the ideological showdown of the century stuff? It’s overblown.
The two likely presidential nominees would, if elected, pursue
very different economic philosophies and domestic policies. But
not nearly as different as they would have you believe.  “President Obama wants to put free enterprise on trial,”
 Mitt Romney  says. But fear not, because the former governor of
 Massachusetts  “will offer the American ideals of economic
freedom a clear and unapologetic defense.”  Romney makes it sound as if he’s running against  Vladimir Lenin . But what has  Barack Obama  actually done or proposed to
do? He continued the Bush administration’s rescue of the
financial system and auto industry. He passed a health-care law
modeled on reforms Romney passed in Massachusetts. He passed a
financial-regulation bill that erected a protective scaffolding
around the banking system, but shied away from fundamentally
reshaping it. He wants to extend most, but not all, of the Bush
tax cuts. He has insisted that  deficit reduction  include some
tax increases, though he has signaled he is willing to accept as
many as three dollars in spending cuts for every dollar in
increased taxes. He wants to raise the effective tax rates of
people making more than a million dollars annually. He wants to
invest in infrastructure.  Far From Radical  You can disagree with this list without pretending it is
radical or somehow inimical to free enterprise. Obama has
pursued an ambitious, center-left agenda. Capitalism will
survive his efforts to use market-based means to accomplish
traditional liberal ends.  Obama’s rhetoric toward the Republicans is less overheated,
but still a bit confusing. In his speech in December in
Osawatomie,  Kansas , he railed against those who “want to return
to the same practices that got us into this mess,” policies that
“stacked the deck against middle-class Americans for way too
many years.” Republican philosophy, Obama said, comes down to
this: “We are better off when everybody is left to fend for
themselves and play by their own rules.” Yet the president
frequently remarks that the policies he favors have, in recent
decades, enjoyed bipartisan support. That doesn’t easily square
with the notion that Republicans are rigidly laissez faire and
anti-middle class. Much of what’s gone wrong in recent years,
and some of what’s gone right, bears the fingerprints of both
parties, and thus both parties’ philosophies.  Financial deregulation was a bipartisan affair, and the
White House intends to make 80 percent of  George W. Bush ’s tax
cuts permanent. The health-care bill, as mentioned above, has
its roots in a slew of proposals Republicans pushed through in
the 1990s and after, and even Romney insists that “greater
transparency for inter-bank relationships, enhanced  capital
requirements , and provisions to address new forms of complex
financial transactions are all necessary elements of effective
financial reform.”  Status Quo Ante  In addition, there is plenty of legislation passed or
proposed in the Bush years that the Obama administration would
like to build on or go back to. The McCain-Feingold campaign
finance reform, which was signed by President Bush, was gutted
by the  Supreme Court ’s Citizens United decision, not by
Republican legislation. Much of the administration’s campaign-
finance reform agenda simply consists of restoring that status
quo ante. Education Secretary  Arne Duncan  wants to mend, not
end, Bush’s signature education initiative, No Child Left
Behind. Obama’s Affordable Care Act strengthened Bush’s Medicare
Part D. And the president’s request, delivered in the State of
the Union, for the Senate to pass new rules ensuring a swift up-
or-down vote for executive-branch nominations echoes Bush’s
effort to end the judicial filibuster.  This is not an attempt to extend the foolish critique that
there is no difference between the two parties or the two likely
presidential nominees. It matters that Obama’s proposed tax cuts
amount to $3 trillion and benefit taxpayers making less than
$250,000 while Romney’s would cost more than $6 trillion and are
tilted toward the top 1 percent. It matters that Obama would
implement the Affordable Care Act and Romney would try to repeal
it. It matters that Obama is inclined to strengthen the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau while Republicans want to weaken it.  But the 2012 election is not an epochal clash of
irreconcilable worldviews. Judging from their respective
records, Obama and Romney would have little trouble coming to
agreement if locked in a room together. That’s a very different
conclusion than you would draw from listening to their rhetoric,
which implies a Thunderdomish battle to the death.  That’s true more broadly, too. The two parties are much
further apart politically than they are philosophically. If you
look closely at the policies both Democrats and Republicans
propose when in power, there are ample opportunities for
compromise and agreement. But elections are zero-sum affairs,
and the one question on which there is no overlap between the
two parties is which side should take power in November. The
reason politics feels so polarized is that the resolution of
that one, irreconcilable question ends up governing the parties’
approach to all other questions.  Reality Behind Rhetoric  Which helps explain both the reality behind, and the
reasons for, the apocalyptic rhetoric. In their effort to
isolate Obama and deny him the bipartisan cooperation that would
assure him a successful presidency, Republicans have moved much
further right, and found themselves committed to a strategy that
requires them to intellectually justify why they can’t ever,
under any circumstances, work cooperatively with the president.
That’s made them act as if their philosophical differences with
Obama are greater than they actually are, and it’s made
Democrats believe Republicans are more extreme than their record
suggests. But if Republicans win in 2012, they’ll move toward
the center, and Democrats, no longer burdened by the
responsibilities of governing and suddenly desperate to retake
power, will move to the left.  If anything is truly on trial in 2012, it is not free
enterprise, which is firmly supported on both sides of the
aisle, or even the social safety net, which isn’t going
anywhere. It’s a political system where you win elections by
denying areas of ideological agreement and refusing to
participate in cooperative governance. Unfortunately, it’s
likely, as in most elections, to get off scot-free, only to
reoffend in a couple of years.  ( Ezra Klein  is a Bloomberg View columnist. The opinions
expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the writer of this article:
Ezra Klein in Washington at 
 wonkbook@gmail.com .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Francis Wilkinson at 
 fwilkinson1@bloomberg.net . 