-- Uniqlo Scores in Tennis Ace Nishikori Sponsorship That Sony, Adidas Missed
-- B y   D a v e   M c C o m b s   a n d   S h u n i c h i   O z a s a
-- 2012-01-26T02:54:21Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/uniqlo-scores-in-bet-sony-adidas-missed-on-tennis-ace-nishikori.html
Japan ’s No. 1 tennis player Kei
Nishikori’s historic run at the Australian Open won a torrent of
publicity for sponsor  Fast Retailing Co. (9983) , attention  Sony Corp. (6758) 
and  Adidas AG (ADS)  missed by not renewing endorsement deals.  Japan’s public broadcaster NHK purchased the rights to air
Nishikori’s Australian Open match yesterday, boosting the
estimated TV audience to 55 million viewers in Japan, after the
22-year-old defeated No. 6 seed Jo-Wilfried Tsonga to win a
berth in the quarterfinals. Nishikori lost the match to No. 4
seed  Andy Murray , after becoming the first Japanese man in 80
years to reach the $12 million tournament’s final eight.  “The marketing effect of this endorsement is worth tens of
billions of yen,” said  Toshihiro Nagahama , chief economist at
Dai-Ichi Life Insurance Research Institute in Tokyo.  Fast Retailing, which cut its annual sales growth forecast
for Japan last week to 0.7 percent, has said the company
benefits from its relationship with the athlete, even though it
has resisted calls to market a tennis line. Uniqlo is getting
“a lot of requests, more than ever” from consumers seeking to
buy the shirts, shorts and hats Nishikori wears, said Masahide
Sakamoto, a Uniqlo adviser who travels with the 178-centimeter
(5’10’’) right-hander to tournaments.  Adidas Less ‘Aggressive’  “The fact that their phones are ringing is exactly why Kei
is doing endorsement deals that are much larger than for the
average tennis player,” said Olivier Van Lindonk, Nishikori’s
agent and tennis vice president at IMG Worldwide Inc. He said
the Uniqlo endorsement proposal was “more aggressive” than
Adidas’s, while he declined to disclose the value of the
agreement.  Adidas Japan spokesman Yoshitaka Ikeuchi was not available
for immediate comment.  Nishikori, the son of a piano teacher and an engineer in
Shimane prefecture, Japan, started playing the game at age 5,
and at 14 was selected to train at the  IMG Bollettieri Academy 
under sponsorship of the Masaaki Morita Tennis Fund established
by Sony Life Insurance Co.’s former chief executive officer.  After recovering from elbow surgery in 2009, Nishikori
returned to a top-100 ranking in 2010, then last year defeated
world No. 1 Novak Djokovic in December. Nishikori finished the
year ranked 25th.  “The ripple effects for sponsors when athletes do well are
huge,” said Nagahama of Dai-Ichi Life.  Sony Misses Out  Sony, after helping Nishikori get started, isn’t getting
the full “ripple” now that Nishikori has become the highest-
ranked Japanese men’s tennis player on record.  The consumer electronics maker, which has said it intends
to cut costs after posting a third annual  loss  last fiscal year,
allowed an endorsement deal with Nishikori to expire Nov. 13.  Adidas, which has endorsements with players including
Tsonga and Murray, lost the Nishikori clothing deal to Uniqlo
last year, Van Lindonk said in a telephone interview. Nishikori
and IMG chose Uniqlo partly because it offered “greater long-
term potential for Kei to earn money,” Van Lindonk said.  “Uniqlo can become a partner for Kei for a long time, even
after his playing days are over,” Van Lindonk said. He said the
company may eventually develop a Kei Nishikori line or Kei
Nishikori brand within the brand.  “It’s more something that’s going to build over the
years,” Van Lindonk said.  Clamor for Nishikori’s gear is also helping Wilson Sporting
Goods Co. promote its rackets. Nishikori uses Wilson’s Steam
model and will begin selling a special limited edition in Japan
only in March or April.  “At the end of the day, we’re building a brand and long-
term value,” Van Lindonk said. “It’s not about cashing quick
checks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shunichi Ozasa in  Tokyo  at 
 sozasa@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Frank Longid at 
 flongid@bloomberg.net  