-- United, JetBlue Top Estimates as Higher Fares Mute Fuel Cost
-- B y   M a r y   J a n e   C r e d e u r   a n d   M a r y   S c h l a n g e n s t e i n
-- 2012-01-26T21:12:59Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/united-continental-s-profit-falls-less-than-estimated-on-fares.html
United Continental Holdings Inc. (UAL)  and
 JetBlue Airways Corp. (JBLU)  posted fourth-quarter results that
exceeded analysts’ estimates as higher fares helped overcome
rising fuel costs.  United’s profit excluding some items was $109 million, or
30 cents a share, which beat the 11-cent average of 14  estimates 
compiled by Bloomberg. JetBlue’s net income almost tripled to
$23 million, or 8 cents a share, topping analysts’ 4-cent
average. JetBlue also said it’s freezing management hiring and
pay to help hold down costs.  United, the world’s largest carrier after merging with
Continental in 2010, and other airlines benefited from planes
that flew more than 80 percent full, giving them more pricing
power to increase fares. Chicago-based United’s  sales  for the
quarter rose 5.5 percent to $8.93 billion.  “Our strong revenue performance is a direct result of
offering customers an unmatched global route network and
competitive products, and our co-workers’ focus on service,”
United Chief Revenue Officer Jim Compton said in a statement.  United, JetBlue and  Alaska Air Group Inc. (ALK)  are the last of
the major U.S. carriers to report results for the quarter.  Alaska Air was alone in trailing analysts’ estimates. The
Seattle-based carrier said today that profit excluding fuel
hedging gains fell to $37.2 million, or $1.02 a share, less than
the $1.14 average of 14  estimates.   United Shares Rise  United rose 6.3 percent to $21.70 at the close in  New York ,
for its biggest one-day gain since Dec. 1. JetBlue advanced
4.1 percent to $5.80. Alaska Air fell 3.6 percent to $72.71, its
steepest drop since Oct. 25.  Delta Air Lines Inc. (DAL) ,  Southwest Airlines Co. (LUV)  and  US Airways
Group Inc. (LCC)  have each reported fourth-quarter earnings that
exceeded estimates, pushing the group to combined net income of
$544 million, or $635.2 million excluding what the companies
consider one-time items.  AMR Corp. (AAMRQ) , parent of  American Airlines , isn’t reporting
quarterly results during its bankruptcy reorganization.  United’s one-time costs included $170 million related to
the integration of United and Continental, and $79 million for
ending a maintenance contract early, aircraft sales and reserves
for legal matters, according to a disclosure to investors last
week by the company.  Net Loss  Including those items, the net loss was $138 million,
or 42 cents, narrower than the $325 million, or $1.01, a year
earlier. The carrier’s fuel bill for the quarter jumped
26 percent to $3.11 billion and was its biggest expense. The
company trimmed capacity 2.5 percent to help reduce costs.  United and Continental received a single operating
certificate from the U.S.  Federal Aviation Administration  during
the quarter, and the carriers are “well positioned” to reach
integration goals in 2012, Chief Financial Officer Zane Rowe
said in a statement.  JetBlue credited a 22 percent jump in  revenue  to a record
$1.15 billion and tight cost controls for helping mitigate a
30 percent rise in the average price it paid per gallon.
JetBlue’s passenger unit revenue, a measure of demand for travel
and ticket prices, climbed 12 percent.  Chief Financial Officer Mark Powers disclosed the plan to
halt management hiring and salary increases on a conference
call. Mateo Lleras, a spokesman, said the New York-based airline
wouldn’t comment on how much money the move will save.  ‘Growing Older’  The airline is working with maintenance, repair and overhaul
vendors to reduce the size of annual cost increases and expects
such changes to slow in the future, Powers said. JetBlue’s fleet
of Airbus SAS A320s and Embraer E190 jets has an average age of
6.1 years, one of the youngest in the U.S. industry.  “The fleet is growing older,” Powers said. “The rates and
honeymoon we enjoyed prior to this period of time are in the
past.”  JetBlue plans to continue to expand, boosting flight and
seating capacity as much as 11.5 percent this quarter and as
much as 7.5 percent for all of 2012.  Costs to fly each seat a mile, excluding fuel, will climb
as much as 5 percent this year, Powers said in a statement.  Alaska Air, the parent of Alaska Airlines and Horizon Air,
said net income including the hedging gains slipped 1.2 percent
to $64 million, or $1.76 a share, from $64.8 million, or $1.75,
a year earlier.  Revenue climbed 9 percent to $1.04 billion, as schedule
changes and new routes boosted traffic by 6.7 percent on Alaska
Air’s main jet operations.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Mary Jane Credeur in Atlanta  at 
 mcredeur@bloomberg.net ;
Mary Schlangenstein in Dallas at 
 maryc.s@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Ed Dufner at 
 edufner@bloomberg.net  