-- Hurry-Up on Tappan Zee Shows Focus on Risk From 18,000 Bridges
-- B y   C a r o l   W o l f
-- 2012-01-26T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/hurry-up-on-tappan-zee-shows-growing-focus-on-risk-from-18-000-old-bridges.html
Three months before proposing in his
Jan. 24  State of the Union  speech to speed up construction
projects, President  Barack Obama  designated replacement of  New
York ’s Tappan Zee Bridge for “fast-track” approvals, saying he
wanted to cut red tape and create jobs.  He didn’t mention another reason: The failure of one main
part could send the structure, which carries about 140,000
vehicles a day, tumbling into the  Hudson River .  The Tappan Zee is one of the U.S.’s 18,000 so-called
fracture-critical bridges, of which about 8,000 are classified
“structurally deficient,” according to U.S. Federal Highway
Administration records. The bridges require inspections that may
cost cash-strapped state and local governments 5 to 15 times as
much as routine checks.  “Fracture-critical bridges work fine if maintenance is
perfect and everything goes as designed,” said Thomas Fisher,
dean of the College of Design at the  University of Minnesota .
“But if you start to change anything, they become very fragile.
Their fracture-critical nature means they don’t give any warning
at the point of collapse. It is sudden and catastrophic.”  The Minneapolis I-35W bridge, a fracture-critical design,
collapsed without warning in August 2007, killing 13 people and
injuring 145 others.  Getting Old  Many fracture-critical bridges were built in the 1960s and
1970s to finish the  interstate highway  system quickly and
inexpensively, said Andrew Herrmann, president of the American
Society of Civil Engineers, a Reston, Virginia-based industry
association.  The average bridge is functional for about 50 years,
depending on weather and other conditions, he said.  “These bridges have an amazing safety record to this
point, but they are getting old and have to be watched,” he
said in a telephone interview.  Bridges rated  structurally deficient  require ``significant
maintenance and repair to remain in service and eventual
rehabilitation or replacement to address the deficiencies,''
according to the  American Association  of State Highway and
Transportation Officials.  Every U.S. highway bridge must be  inspected  at least once
every two years, he said. Fracture-critical bridges may need to
be inspected more often. How frequently depends on their
condition. While many bridges can be checked visually, engineers
need to use boats, cranes, cherry pickers and other equipment to
inspect fracture-critical bridges up close, he said.  Inspectors look for cracks as small as one-eighth of an
inch,  Michael Johnson , chief of special investigations for the
California Department of Transportation, said in a telephone
interview. “If the crack is not arrested, it can run the length
of the steel and jeopardize the integrity of the structure,” he
said.  Six-Figure Inspections  Underwater inspections using divers are required every five
years, he said.  “ These  hands-on inspections have revealed numerous fatigue
and corrosion problems that otherwise might have escaped
notice,” according a report by Transportation Research Board,
part of the  National Academy of Sciences  that provides
inspection information to engineers.  Fracture-critical bridge maintenance “consumes a large
portion” of states’ inspection budgets, the report said. A
fracture-critical inspection can cost “well into the six
digits,” compared with $15,000 or less for more routine work,
said Todd Niemann, a bridge inspection engineer for the
Minnesota Department of Transportation.  Sherman Minton  It cost about $100,000 to hire a consultant to inspect the
Milton-Madison bridge, which carries US 421 across the  Ohio
River  between Milton, Kentucky and Madison,  Indiana , according
to  data  compiled by  Michael Baker (BKR)  Jr. Inc., an engineering
services company. A more general bridge inspection by Kentucky
Department of Transportation employees cost about $10,000,
according to the data. Michael Baker Jr., a unit of Moon
Township, Pennsylvania-based Michael Baker Corp., is a
consultant working on the 81-year-old bridge’s replacement.  The  Sherman Minton Bridge , another span connecting Kentucky
and Indiana over the Ohio River, was closed Sept. 9 after cracks
as wide as a 12-ounce can were found. The discovery prompted the
Federal Highway Administration on Sept. 12 to “strongly”
recommend that states double-check fracture-critical bridges
using the same type of steel.  “When you notice something on these bridges, they have to
be shut down right away because they don’t give a warning before
collapsing,” the University of Minnesota’s Fisher said. “It’s
not like they sag or start to shake first.”  The bridge, completed in 1961, carried about 80,000
 vehicles  a day, according to the U.S. Department of
Transportation.  Glue, Duct Tape  The New York State Thruway Authority spent $389 million
from 2007 through 2011 to maintain and improve the Tappan Zee
Bridge, Betsy Feldstein, a spokeswoman for the agency, said. The
 Federal Highway Administration  estimates it will cost $5.2
billion to $16 billion to replace the bridge, depending on
whether it has bus lanes and tracks for rail.  “The  Tappan Zee  is being held together with glue and duct
tape,” said Barry LePatner, founder of LePatner & Associates
LLP, a construction-law firm in New York, and author of “Too
Big to Fall” about the state of U.S. bridges.  Repairing all U.S. bridges would cost about $140 billion,
three times what the U.S. government receives in taxes annually
for road, mass transit and bridge projects, according to the
engineering society.  Repair Dollars Scarce  Funding for bridge repairs comes in part from U.S. surface-transportation legislation, the last of which provided $20
billion between 2005 and 2009. That bill has been extended at
about the same funding levels since 2009. The current extension
expires March 31.  The Highway Trust Fund, which receives fuel taxes for use
on highway, bridge and mass transit projects, is spending more
money than it takes in and will probably be insolvent by the
first quarter of 2013, according to the  Congressional Budget
Office .  The shortage of repair money means the U.S. should inspect
fracture-critical bridges regularly and allocate inspection
money to the structures in the worst state of repair, said
 Robert Connor , associate professor of civil engineering at
 Purdue University  in  West Lafayette , Indiana.  “I don’t think the sky is falling today,” Connor said.
“But if we don’t train the future workforce in at least how to
maintain these structures, we’re going to have some pretty bad
things eventually happen.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Carol Wolf in Washington at 
 cwolf@bloomberg.net ;  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Bernard Kohn at 
 bkohn2@bloomberg.net  