-- Vale Charged $5.6 Billion in Back Taxes, Mounts Appeal
-- B y   J u a n   P a b l o   S p i n e t t o   a n d   P e t e r   M i l l a r d
-- 2012-01-26T20:28:45Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/vale-charged-5-6-billion-in-back-taxes-in-brazil-mounts-appeal.html
Vale (VALE5)  SA, the world’s biggest iron-
ore producer, said  Brazil  delivered “unfavorable rulings” on
9.8 billion reais ($5.6 billion) in unpaid taxes.  The decision was delivered at an “administrative level,”
Vale, based in  Rio de Janeiro , said in an e-mailed statement
late yesterday, without elaborating on the reasons or level of
the legal decision. The company said it will lodge an appeal.  Vale, also Brazil’s biggest exporter, has been fighting tax
claims from the government amid growth in its exports and rising
minerals prices. It estimated in April the total amount of tax
liabilities could be as much as 34.6 billion reais.  “With its current cash generation, it wouldn’t be such a
problem for Vale” to pay at least part of the disputed amount,
said Leonardo Brito, an equity analyst at hedge fund Teorica
Investimentos in Rio. “It will still take time before a final
ruling as the company will appeal,” he said by telephone today.  Vale dropped 0.8 percent to 41.23 reais in  Sao Paulo  today,
the most in almost two weeks.  Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s
second-largest iron-ore exporter after Vale,  gained  4.9 percent
in  London .  The government is seeking tax payments on profits at
foreign operations from 1994 to 2008 and additional unpaid
royalties from operations in Brazil, according to an April 28
 filing  with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  Vale is challenging since 2003 the application of the
regulation that requires the payment of tax in Brazil over net
income generated by foreign subsidiaries on the grounds that it
disregards double taxation treaties, according to the filing.  Overdue Royalties  Brazil’s National Mineral Production Department, or DNPM,
in August started talks with Vale over about 4 billion reais of
overdue royalties. The negotiations, originally due to end in
October, were extended twice and are due to conclude next month.  Vale’s tax disputes may bring “additional uncertainties”
for investors and weigh on its share price performance in the
near term, Barclays Plc analysts led by Leonardo Correa in Sao
Paulo said in a note to clients today. The stock has  dropped 
about 21 percent in the past 12 months, almost tripling the 8
percent decline of the Brazilian Benchmark Bovespa  Index. (IBOV)   Vale is defending the tax claims at a time the government
is tightening control over natural resources. Brazil put
 Petroleo Brasileiro SA (PETR4) , the state controlled oil producer, in
charge of the country’s largest oil reservoirs in 2010 and is
preparing a bill to increase mining taxes.  Vale’s press office declined to provide additional details
when contacted by e-mail.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Juan Pablo Spinetto in Rio de Janeiro at 
 jspinetto@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Millard in Rio de Janeiro at 
 pmillard1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  