-- Virginia, Alberta Lead Suit Against Corzine Over MF Losses
-- B y   L i n d a   S a n d l e r
-- 2012-01-26T17:39:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/virginia-alberta-lead-suit-against-corzine-over-mf-losses-1-.html
The Virginia Retirement System and
 Canada ’s  Alberta  province will lead a group lawsuit against  Jon Corzine  seeking compensation for losses from  MF Global Holdings
Ltd (MFGLQ) .’s collapse.  U.S. District Judge  Victor Marrero  in  Manhattan  combined 12
lawsuits against Corzine, putting Virginia and Alberta at the
head as their combined investment losses of $19 million give
them a larger stake in the suit than seven other applicants for
lead plaintiff, he said in a signed order.  MF Global executives led by Corzine,  New Jersey ’s former
governor, made “materially misleading” statements about
liquidity and financial controls, Joseph DeAngelis alleged in
the first of the 12 similar suits. He also named Henri Steenkamp, the New York-based company’s chief financial officer,
and  Bradley Abelow , its president.  JPMorgan Chase & Co ., MF
Global’s banker, should have noticed the “depletion” of
customer money, and should have investigated, commodity
customers said in a separate suit seeking unspecified
restitution and damages.  Andrew Levander, a lawyer for Corzine, hasn’t responded to
e-mails seeking comment on the suits and Mary Sedarat, a
JPMorgan spokeswoman, has declined to comment.  Virginia and Alberta won over competition from investment
funds and union pension trusts. They are typical of the class of
investors who lost money on MF Global investments, the judge
said. The judge’s order was signed on Jan. 20 and entered on the
docket yesterday.  European Sovereign Debt  MF Global filed the eighth-largest U.S. bankruptcy with $41
billion in assets on Oct. 31, after making bets on European
sovereign debt and getting margin calls. The parent company’s
commodities brokerage, which is being liquidated in a separate
court proceeding, is missing an estimated $1.2 billion in
customer assets. Corzine has said he doesn’t know where the
missing money is.  “Defendants had the power and influence -- and exercised
such power and influence -- as to cause MF Global to engage in
the unlawful conduct and practices,” DeAngelis alleged. “Each
of the defendants is liable as a participant in a fraudulent
scheme and course of business that operated as a fraud or deceit
on purchasers of MF Global common stock.”  An Oct. 25 release on second-quarter results “falsely
stated” that MF Global had strengthened its capital and
liquidity, according to the complaint.  Corzine said in the release he was confident the company
had “the resources and expertise to continue to successfully
manage these exposures,” according to the complaint.  Corzine and MF Global also have been sued by former
employees claiming back pay, and by Montana farmers.  The main case is DeAngelis v. Corzine, 11-cv-7866, U.S.
District Court, Southern District of  New York  (Manhattan).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Linda Sandler in New York at 
 lsandler@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 John Pickering  at 
 jpickering@bloomberg.net . 