-- Wacker Chief Executive Says Polysilicon Prices Look ‘More Robust’
-- B y   S t e f a n   N i c o l a   a n d   M a r c   R o c a
-- 2012-01-26T15:43:37Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/wacker-ceo-says-polysilicon-prices-prices-look-more-robust-.html
Wacker Chemie AG (WCH)  said prices of
polysilicon, the material used in most solar panels, are on
their way up after the photovoltaic industry stopped running
down inventories.  Spot prices rose in January after solar-cell, wafer and
module makers increased production and ordered more polysilicon,
easing the build-up of stocks, Chief Executive Officer Rudolf Staudigl said today on a conference call with reporters.  “The poly market appears now more robust than it looked in
December and shipments have picked up again,” Staudigl said
after the Munich-based company reported full-year and fourth-
quarter profits that missed analyst estimates on weak demand.  Polysilicon makers such as Wacker and  GCL-Poly Energy
Holdings Ltd. (3800)  boosted output in 2011, producing more than could
be absorbed by demand for solar panels and creating a glut that
took prices below production costs for most manufacturers.  The company, which mostly sells polysilicon through long-
term contracts, said contract prices remain above spot market
prices. Wacker renegotiated the contracts with most customers so
its market share should stay the same, according to Staudigl.  The company expects margins on earnings before interest,
tax, depreciation and amortization in its polysilicon business
of below 40 percent, Chief Financial Officer Joachim Rauhut
said. Global photovoltaic installations reached about 25
gigawatts last year, Wacker said.  While demand for panels boomed last quarter, reducing
stockpiles and helping stabilize polysilicon prices, consumption
will be “about flat” this year, Jenny Chase, head of solar
analysis at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, said Jan. 13.  Wacker fell 1.8 percent in  Frankfurt  to 66.07 euros as of
3:24 p.m. local time.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Stefan Nicola in Berlin at 
 snicola2@bloomberg.net ;
Marc Roca in London at 
 mroca6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Reed Landberg at 
 landberg@bloomberg.net  