-- Cable Company WaveDivision Said to Explore Sale That May Fetch $1 Billion
-- B y   A l e x   S h e r m a n
-- 2012-01-26T19:24:10Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/wavedivision-said-to-explore-sale-that-could-fetch-1-billion.html
WaveDivision Holdings LLC is
exploring a sale that may value the closely held cable-
television provider at $1 billion, said a person familiar with
the process.  Royal Bank of Canada  and Waller Capital Corp., a  New York- 
based investment bank, are advising on the process, said the
person, who declined to be identified as deliberations are
private. The possible value of the transaction is based on
previous deals of similar size and type, the person said.  Smaller cable companies are consolidating as programming
costs rise almost 10 percent a year and fees to local network
affiliates eat into profits, said Sanford C. Bernstein & Co.’s
 Craig Moffett . WaveDivision  provides  cable, Internet and phone
access to more than 325,000 residential and business customers
in  Washington , Oregon and California, its website shows.  “It’s a buyer’s market,” said the analyst, who is based
in  New York . “More than ever, these kinds of assets are more
valuable in the hands of the larger players than they are on
their own.”  The most likely bidders for the Kirkland, Washington-based
company are private-equity firms, the person familiar with the
matter said.  Comcast Corp. (CMCSA) , the largest U.S. cable-TV operator,
and  Charter Communications Inc. (CHTR) , which serves more than 5
million customers in 25 states, may consider offers, though
WaveDivision isn’t a “strategic must-have,” said Moffett.  Industry Landscape  Jennifer Jeter, a spokeswoman for WaveDivision,  Anita Lamont , a representative at Charter, and Comcast’s John Demming
declined to comment.  Sandler Capital Management owns about 70 percent of
WaveDivision, according to Michael Marocco, head of private
equity at the New York-based investment firm. He declined to
comment on the process. Spokesmen for RBC and Waller didn’t
return calls for comment.  There have been more than 100 takeovers involving cable
companies worldwide over the past five years, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. In nine cable transactions over that
period, the median paid was 7.2 times earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization, the data show.  At a $1 billion price, WaveDivision would be valued at
about $3,077 per subscriber. That’s a reasonable valuation, said
Moffett, who notes that Comcast is trading at about $3,700 per
customer. Insight Communications Co., which Time Warner Cable
Inc. acquired in August for $3 billion, sold for $3,972 per
subscriber, according to Bryan Kraft, an analyst at Evercore
Partners.  The most recent acquisition for a cable company of
WaveDivision’s size was Cablevision Systems Corp.’s purchase of
Bresnan Communications LLC, which had about 330,000 customers,
in December 2010. Cablevision paid $1.37 billion for Bresnan,
which operated in  Colorado ,  Montana , Wyoming and Utah.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alex Sherman in New York at 
 asherman6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Peter Elstrom at 
 pelstrom@bloomberg.net  