-- Wheat Climbs to Three-Week High as Russia May Slow Shipments on Low Supply
-- B y   T o n y   C .   D r e i b u s   a n d   L u z i   A n n   J a v i e r
-- 2012-01-26T13:52:26Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/wheat-climbs-for-sixth-days-as-dwindling-russian-supply-may-boost-demand.html
Wheat advanced to a three-week high
in Chicago as  Russia  may slow shipments of the grain with
supplies for exports down. Corn and soybeans gained.  Wheat stockpiles held by farmers in Russia’s main exporting
regions in the south have dropped below last year’s levels,
declining as much as 50 percent in some areas, SovEcon, a
Moscow-based agricultural researcher, said yesterday. The
country banned  exports  in August 2010 after its worst drought in
half a century. The ban was lifted in July.  “Russia could potentially put some export curbs in place,
but nothing is for certain,” said  Sudakshina Unnikrishnan , an
analyst at  Barclays Capital  in London. “For grains we have
quite a bit of fundamental support.”  Wheat for March delivery climbed 1.9 percent to $6.535 a
bushel at 1:15 p.m.  London  time on the Chicago Board of Trade.
The price rose to $6.5475 earlier today, the highest since Jan.
4. Milling wheat for March delivery was 0.5 percent higher at
209 euros ($275) a metric ton on NYSE Liffe in Paris.  Inventories with farmers in the Krasnodar region, home to
Russia’s main export hub at Novorossiysk, have halved, SovEcon
said. In the Southern Federal District, farmers held 40 percent
less grain than in 2011, while inventories held by producers in
the Rostov region fell 42 percent, it said.  Exports Slowdown  Russia’s three major grain-exporting provinces have shipped
most of their supplies and that will lead to a “dramatic”
slowdown in shipments from now through June, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture’s  Foreign Agricultural Service  said Jan. 19. U.S.
wheat  inspected  for export gained 27 percent in the week ended
Jan. 19 from a week earlier, the USDA said Jan. 23.  Corn advanced for a sixth straight day as crop losses from
a drought in Mexico deepened, potentially boosting demand for
U.S. supplies. The country is the world’s second-largest
importer after  Japan  and the second-biggest buyer of U.S. corn.  Acreage damage almost doubled after the worst drought on
record. Losses covered 1.15 million hectares (2.8 million acres)
as of Dec. 31 for the season ending in March, compared with
630,170 hectares a year earlier, according to data from the
nation’s  Agriculture Ministry  posted yesterday.  Corn for March delivery gained 1.4 percent to $6.4325 a
bushel. Soybean futures for delivery in the same month rose 0.8
percent to $12.23 a bushel in  Chicago .  To contact the reporters on this story:
Luzi Ann Javier in Singapore at 
 ljavier@bloomberg.net ;
Tony C. Dreibus in London at 
 tdreibus@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Poole at 
 jpoole4@bloomberg.net  