-- Who Guitarist Pete Townshend Sells Song Catalog to Spirit Music
-- B y   A n d y   F i x m e r
-- 2012-01-26T07:11:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/who-guitarist-pete-townshend-sells-stake-in-song-catalog-to-spirit-music.html
Pete Townshend, guitarist for the
 rock band  The Who, sold his interest in a song catalog including
“Won’t Get Fooled Again” and “Baba O’Riley” to Spirit Music
Group.  Townshend, 66, also signed a multiyear consulting agreement
to promote the work, which spans five decades, New York-based
Spirit Music said in a statement Jan. 24. Financial terms
weren’t provided.  The sale includes a long-term music publishing agreement
for Townshend’s future work, including potential solo albums,
releases with The Who and compositions from “Floss,” the
artist’s musical dramatic project, Spirit Music said. Townshend
said in the statement that money from the sale will allow him to
restart his creative career.  “Most songwriters don’t get this kind of opportunity, a
chance of creative renaissance,” Townshend said in the
statement. “I am passionately committed to new projects for
rock and for music theater and I can’t imagine a better company
with which to be building a new creative life for myself.”  Townshend and The Who, named to the Rock and Roll Hall of
Fame in 1990, performed hits including “Pinball Wizard,” “My
Generation,” and “Who Are You,” after forming in 1964. The
band reunited earlier this month to play at the charity Concert
for Killing Cancer, an event they organized at  London ’s HMV
Hammersmith Apollo.  Spirit Music, acquired by Pegasus Capital Advisors LP in
April 2009, owns and manages a roster of 40,000 songs by artists
including  Frank Sinatra  and  Elvis Presley .  Townshend will also work with Spirit to help license his
songs in film, television, advertising and new media projects,
as well as reach agreements with consumer products companies,
according to the statement. They will also work together to
develop musical stage shows and multimedia installations.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andy Fixmer in  Los Angeles  at 
 afixmer@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  