-- Baer Said to Be Considered for U.S. Antitrust Chief
-- B y   S a r a   F o r d e n   a n d   J e f f   B l i s s
-- 2012-02-06T22:59:30Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/william-baer-said-to-be-considered-for-u-s-antitrust-chief-1-.html
(Corrects Overton’s title in seventh paragraph in a story
published on Jan. 26.)  William Baer , whose law firm
championed  AT&T Inc .’s failed bid to acquire  T-Mobile USA Inc. ,
is the top candidate to head the U.S. Justice Department’s
antitrust division, two people familiar with the situation said.  Baer, 61, who leads the antitrust group at  Arnold & Porter
LLP  in Washington, is the subject of a background investigation
for the job by the  Federal Bureau of Investigation , said the
people, who didn’t want to be identified because the process is
confidential.  The White House is vetting Baer for the post after Sharis Pozen, acting chief of the division, said Jan. 23 she will leave
her position on April 30.  Baer, named one of the “Decade’s Most Influential
Lawyers” by the National Law Journal in 2010, is a former
director of the Federal Trade Commission’s competition bureau
and has represented corporate clients including  General Electric
Company Co. ,  Intel Corp . and  Cisco Systems Inc . in private
practice.  “He has a fantastic reputation in the antitrust bar,”
said Kenneth Glazer, who served as deputy director of the
competition bureau after Baer had left. “He’s one of the
heavyweights -- very strong in terms of his litigations and also
in terms of his policy judgment.”  Baer and Gina Talamona, a  Justice Department  spokeswoman,
declined to comment on the potential nomination in separate e-
mails.  Other Candidates  While Baer is the top candidate, the administration is
considering others, including Seth Bloom, antitrust counsel to
Wisconsin Democratic Senator  Herb Kohl , and Leslie Overton, a
deputy assistant attorney general in the department’s antitrust
division, said a person familiar with the process who asked not
to be identified because of its confidential nature.  Also under consideration is David Turetsky, an antitrust
lawyer with  Dewey & LeBoeuf LLP  and a former senior official in
the antitrust division, said another person who has knowledge of
the candidates and didn’t want to be identified because the
process isn’t public.  Overton, through Talamona, declined to comment on whether
she is being considered. Bloom and Turetsky also declined to
comment.  Arnold & Porter  was lead outside counsel advising AT&T in
its proposed $39 billion buyout of  Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) ’s T-
Mobile USA unit. Baer’s colleagues  Richard Rosen  and Donna
Patterson handled the transaction, which the Justice Department
sued to block Aug. 31. AT&T abandoned the deal Dec. 19 after
meeting opposition from regulators.  Potential Nominee  Baer’s name first surfaced as the potential nominee for the
division head when Obama took office, said Andrew Gavil, an
antitrust law professor at  Howard University  in Washington.  “The focus on him is not at all new,” Gavil said.  While Baer is a “highly qualified candidate” with “high-
level government experience,” his consideration may have been
more “problematic” if the AT&T case had dragged on, he said.  If Baer is nominated, the selection would follow a
tradition established by the last several administrations of
choosing someone from a major  law firm  to head the division,
Gavil said.  Baer also might help bridge differences between the FTC and
the Justice Department, which share responsibility for enforcing
antitrust laws, said Spencer Waller, an antitrust law professor
at Loyola University in  Chicago .  The relationship between the two agencies “has been frayed
at times in the past few years,” he said.  As a nominee, Baer might be delayed from assuming the post
by Senate Republicans, who may refuse to confirm appointees in
response to Obama filling positions during a congressional
recess, Gavil said.  If Baer is selected, the administration would have no
problem lining up former Republican chiefs of the antitrust
division to attest to his qualifications, he said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Sara Forden in  Washington  at 
 sforden@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Bliss in Washington at 
 jbliss@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net ;
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  