-- Yapi Kredi Surges on UniCredit Bonds, Fed Policy: Istanbul Mover
-- B y   B e n j a m i n   H a r v e y
-- 2012-01-26T17:01:28Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/yapi-kredi-surges-most-in-20-months-on-fed-policy-speculation.html
Yapi & Kredi Bankasi AS , the worst-
performing Turkish bank share last year, surged on bets that
capital concerns at parent  UniCredit SpA (UCG)  will ease and extra
liquidity from the  Federal Reserve  will boost demand for lenders
in  emerging markets .  Yapi Kredi, the fourth-biggest listed bank in  Turkey ,
jumped as much as 9 percent on the  Istanbul Stock Exchange . The
share rose 6.5 percent to 3.30 liras at the close in Istanbul.
The main ISE National 100 index climbed 3.7 percent, the biggest
gain since Nov. 30, and the  banking index  advanced 5.2 percent.  UniCredit, which owns Yapi Kredi along with Koc Holding AS,
Turkey’s biggest industrial group, offered yesterday to buy back
as much as 3 billion euros ($3.9 billion) of Tier 1 and Tier 2
bonds as part of a plan to increase capital. Meanwhile, the
Federal Reserve signaled that it may keep  interest rates  low
through 2014, making a case for a new round of asset purchases
to increase liquidity and aid economic recovery. Previous
purchases have spurred demand for emerging market stocks such as
 Yapi Kredi. (YKBNK)   Yapi Kredi is rising due to “news flow” over the bond
sale, which will help strengthen UniCredit’s capital base, Mine Yoruk, a trader at Erste Securities in Istanbul, said in e-
mailed comments. UniCredit rose 2 percent in Milan trading
today. Yapi Kredi’s ratings, which impact its cost of raising
capital, are based on those of UniCredit,  Fitch Ratings  said in
a statement on Jan. 16.  Worst Performer  Yapi Kredi plunged 45 percent last year, the biggest drop
on a banking index that fell 32 percent. Yapi Kredi has one of
the lowest capital adequacy ratios in the Turkish banking
industry, at 13.6 percent as of September, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg. That compares with an average of more
than 16 percent, according to figures from the banking regulator
in Ankara.  Fifteen of 36 analysts say investors should buy Yapi
Kredi’s shares and 17 say they should hold them, according to
 data  compiled by Bloomberg. The average price estimate is 3.58
liras per share.  An improved outlook for global liquidity helps Yapi Kredi
and other Turkish banks because it also eases concerns about
funding the country’s record current-account deficit, Bugra Bilgi, a hedge fund manager at Garanti Asset Management in
Istanbul, said in e-mailed comments.  Costs Decline  The central bank in Ankara has also boosted demand among
investors for Turkish banks by lending them more cash at its
annual 5.75 percent benchmark rate, lowering banks’ funding
costs, according to Muge Dagistan, a banking analyst at BGC
Partners in Istanbul. The central bank had lent at rates as high
as 12.5 percent to slow a lending boom and support the lira. The
average borrowing cost for banks has dropped to around 7.4
percent from 12 percent at the start of the year, Dagistan said.  “Banks like Yapi Kredi were most affected by tighter
liquidity because of their relatively uncomfortable funding
structures, with higher loan-to-deposit ratios and lower
securities exposure so they have less room to generate liquidity
by disposing of securities,” Dagistan said by telephone. “They
were also the worst-hit banks as far as valuations, so an
increase in liquidity comes as a relief.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Benjamin Harvey in Istanbul at 
 bharvey11@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Gavin Serkin at 
 gserkin@bloomberg.net  