-- Another in an Endless Season of Republican Debates: Rick Moranis
-- B y   R i c k   M o r a n i s
-- 2012-01-26T00:00:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/yet-another-in-the-endless-season-of-debates-rick-moranis.html
Welcome to the YouNews/Mama Belle’s
Quality Country Inn All You Can Eat Buffet Republican Primary
Debate. From the Belle Vue Room, Route 2, Plainfield, U.S.A.
Your moderator is Sherm Willinson, YouNews Web designer and
blogger and Mama Belle’s food and beverage manager.  SHERM: Gentlemen, let’s begin the debate. You know the
rules. See what you can get away with. We’ve asked the audience
to  stay silent  throughout the debate, except when Speaker
Gingrich has the floor. Governor Romney, let’s begin with you.
What did you think of the buffet?  MITT ROMNEY: I loved it, Sherm. And so did my beautiful
wife, our five sons and five daughters-in-law and our 165
grandkids and their spouses. You know, this is breakfast in
America. And America is an All You Can Eat Buffet, or rather,
should be. This president wants us all to eat gruel -- the very
same gruel. And he wants to take the Mama Belle’s fine maple-
sweetened turkey off my plate and give it to you. Now I’m happy
to share it with you, Sherm, and as you saw on my tax returns I
share a lot of my good fortune, which I’m not ashamed of, with
the many less fortunate among us. And I’ll continue to do that
and more, which is why it’s imperative that we keep charitable
contributions deductible. But, Sherm, not every American can
afford to participate in a full buffet. Now the speaker, I
noticed, went up to the buffet the first time with a small
plate, suggesting he might just participate in a more modest,
less costly option of cold cereal and fruit. Well, sure enough,
he came back with the same small plate and helped himself to the
more expensive hot service area. That’s a violation of ethics. I
don’t mislead people, Sherm. I don’t promise one thing and then
do another. That’s corruption and fraud, and that leads to far
worse things that are dangerous to our country. I don’t do that.
The speaker does.  NEWT GINGRICH: I’m not going to address the factual
untruths in the governor’s appallingly false accusations. That’s
frankly a complete waste of my time. The governor might think
himself a keen observer, but he has his history fundamentally
incorrect. The fact is, and this can be seen as of tomorrow
morning in the motel’s digital confirmation, which will be
posted on our campaign website, is that we prepaid the full
buffet at the time of our advance booking (APPLAUSE) and unlike
the governor, and out of respect and in deference to the
overworked and underpaid undocumented alien dishwashers in the
back (APPLAUSE), who are afraid under this president to register
so that they can earn a decent wage and maybe someday
participate openly and freely in what  Ronald Reagan  poignantly
called the American Buffet, I decided to use only one plate for
everything. (APPLAUSE) Now that may not appeal to an elitist,
moderate from  Massachusetts  with his own “Epic of Gilgamesh”
for a personal  tax return , a second home in  New Hampshire  and an
ATM in the  Cayman Islands  (APPLAUSE) but to suggest to someone
who balanced the buffet four years in a row that those green,
crescent-shaped, soggy, fetid things near the sour cream were
fruit is as close to despicable as anything I’ve ever tasted.
(APPLAUSE)  RICK SANTORUM: Once again I have a very different
perspective. My wife and I have somewhere close to a dozen kids
or so, and we can’t afford to take the whole bunch of them to an
All You Can Eat Buffet whenever we just feel like it. We’re
staying up the road at a campsite and cooking our own breakfast
over an open fire, like most Americans do every single morning.
Before the debate, I had a chance to talk to Midge over there,
who works as a housemaid here at the Quality Country Inn, and
she told me she’s never been to the buffet either. Not only can
she not afford it, but she works on Sundays. Well, that’s simply
not fair. As president, I would make sure that we had guaranteed
buffet accessibility for every working American. And another
thing: I think most Americans are offended when they see a
buffet table that has both mother and child offered up together.
Every life is uniquely precious. And to see eggs served on the
same buffet with poultry is simply tragic and unacceptable.
Every egg should have the opportunity to grow into a full-size
happy chicken. And every chicken should be able to lay an egg
knowing that egg will be able to realize the same dream that
chicken had.  RON PAUL: Look, the problem isn’t the buffet. The problem
is the reason they have the buffet in the first place. If
markets were allowed to stay open on the weekends, then
restaurants would be able to get fresh deliveries every day and
wouldn’t have to liquidate their old inventories every Sunday
under a disguise of being something special with a fancy name.
Newt’s right. That honeydew was horrible. But it’s no surprise,
because it’s out of season and old and from  South America . We
need to get out of South America’s business. These stupid
displays of excess all just lead to bubbles. I’m a doctor. Look
at the size of people who go to buffets. And we wonder why we
have obesity problems in this country. You have to open the
markets, balance the inventories and let people decide what they
want to do and stop all the wars and audit the Fed and go back
to the gold standard and stop printing money and then people
will be free and successful and that will solve all your
problems. That’s what the founders wanted. The founders of this
buffet just want to get rid of their old food before they have
to turn it into soup. And I like soup. Don’t get me wrong! And
get rid of the debt, too.  ROMNEY: You know, Sherm, when I was in the private sector,
we had a more efficient name for All You Can Eat Buffets. We
called them AYCEBs. And you know what? They work. The
congressman is wrong again for a change. I’ve turned hotel
chains around that were on the verge of total bankruptcy by
introducing AYCEBs to their business plan. I know how business
works. When I was governor we had more people go through AYCEBs
weekly than any other state. And I’ll tell you something else.
If this president would stop discouraging people from going to
 Las Vegas , and maybe even go there himself, he might see a third
way, Sherm. In Nevadan AYCEBs, you can elect a more expensive
option that allows you to avoid the long line. That makes sense.
The buffet establishment benefits from the extra profit and for
the individual that decides, freely, as the congressman
rightfully suggests, on spending his or her own extra hard-
earned capital to avoid a two- or three-hour wait in line, well,
I think that’s great. That’s capitalism. I understand
capitalism. And I know how to avoid waiting in line.  SHERM: Gentleman, I’m afraid we’re out of time as we have
to clear the room and set up for this evening’s AYCEB. Thank you
and good morning from Plainfield.  (Rick Moranis is a writer and actor who lives in  New York
City . The opinions expressed are his own.)  Read more opinion online from  Bloomberg View .  To contact the editor responsible for this article:
Tobin Harshaw at 
 tharshaw@bloomberg.net . 