-- Zurich Financial’s CIO Says Low Interest Rates Are ‘Not Helpful’
-- B y   S i m o n e   M e i e r
-- 2012-01-26T15:50:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2012-01-26/zurich-financial-s-cio-says-low-interest-rates-are-not-helpful-.html
Cecilia Reyes, chief investment
officer at  Zurich Financial Services AG (ZURN) , comments on  market
sentiment , the euro-region crisis, the European Central Bank’s
cash provisions to banks and the risk of a default.  She spoke in an interview at the  World Economic Forum  in
Davos,  Switzerland , today.  On sentiment at the WEF:  “It’s a mixture. Obviously the focus is not just on the
euro zone. It’s new thinking, new models, learning from the
crisis and having a discussion on how things can get better. I
don’t sense any negative sentiment. There’s just a realism that
things need to change and adjustments need to be made.”  “Overall, I don’t see huge optimism or huge negative
sentiment. The focus is not just  euro zone . There’s also a new
kind of leadership, not just focusing on financial terms but
returns for society. It takes a crisis to get people to think,
we need a new framework. Sustainability is a big topic, values
and leadership in companies and looking at society as a major
stakeholder.”  “Geopolitical risks, unrest in the  Middle East , that’s one
of the risks we face. They’re all interconnected. The Iran oil
embargo obviously that has an impact on the oil price and at the
same time on the economy.”  On Zurich Financial’s outlook:  “We expect growth to be subdued, sluggish, below trend,
brought on by this deleveraging that’s still ongoing. Policy
rates will remain close to the floor. Yesterday we heard from
Bernanke they expect rates to remain low for over three years.
It’s the low-rate environment, which is not very helpful to the
 insurance industry . It impacts income and ability to meet
minimum rates guarantees in some life portfolios. We have a very
strong balance sheet, our equity is very healthy. Low yields,
low returns, low investment income for years to come. Overall,
it will be a challenge to meet your investment income targets,
if the low level persists. At the same time we have volatility
in markets. Our focus is on keeping the balance sheet very
strong.”  On whether she sees signs of stabilization:  The European Central Bank’s long-term provision of cash to
euro-region banks “certainly improved the sentiment. Any risk
of a bank entering into a liquidity crunch has been averted and
that improved sentiment. But there’s still a long way to go in
the resolution of this crisis.”  “We think that markets will be constructive near-term and
allow the long-term solution” in the euro region “to be
implemented. Near term, we need to ensure that markets remain
constructive and then allow the countries needing to make fiscal
adjustments time to put their house in order.”  On selling assets:  “We’re actively managing risks. The $3 billion of
subordinated debt is high quality. A large part is not the very
junior ones but the LT2s. It’s a very well diversified”
portfolio. “We’re managing it on an ongoing basis.”  On European crisis efforts:  “We’re looking at policy makers to find a definite
solution to the crisis both near- and long-term.  Europe  has the
necessary means to deal with the crisis but it’s a complex
political environment. The ECB has an active role in solving
this crisis and has already done a lot. But there is still more
work to do. These unlimited term financing for banks, that went
a long way in terms of stabilizing the markets. The fear of any
bank default in Europe has certainly receded. The ECB is
certainly doing its job in terms of being the lender of last
resort to European banks. We need a more overt role for the ECB
to also support the sovereign  debt market  and try and eliminate
the  default risk .”  On the risk of state downgrades:  “When France was downgraded, markets barely budged.
They’re already anticipating these downgrading actions. We look
at credit spreads, we look at prices of bonds. Whether the
spreads are reflecting the risks we’re bearing, it’s not rating
driven, it’s spread driven.”  “Markets are pricing in the risks they don’t just look at
credit ratings. But of course there are many rules and
regulations on investments and funds that are very much rating
based. So when downgrades happen, there’s a lot of market
technicality that will happen. Certain bonds that fall out of
the indices. There’s a selling-driven impact because of the
downgrade because of technicalities. But by and large, markets
don’t rely on rating agencies.”  On exposure to euro region and a further possible reduction:  “We continuously monitor our investment decisions. Our
risks are well managed. We took some action in July 2011. Our
exposure is well balanced.”  On the risk of a bank default in the euro region:  “The risk has been reduced at least in the near term. The
market is going to be challenging, yields will remain low,
that’s challenging for insurers. In terms of volatility in
 capital markets , being very disciplined, our investment approach
is profiting from long-term horizon, our long-term strategy and
that being backed by capital so we’re not forced to de-risk,
being able to hold on to positions.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simone Meier in Zurich at 
 smeier@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  