-- Tax-Exempt Market Shrinking for Longest Since 1945: Muni Credit
-- B y   M i c h e l l e   K a s k e
-- 2013-11-26T01:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/tax-exempt-market-shrinking-for-longest-since-1945-muni-credit.html
The $3.7 trillion municipal market
is poised to shrink for a fourth straight year, the longest
stretch in almost seven decades, underscoring localities’
reluctance to borrow for crumbling infrastructure.  Bondholders are set to receive more in principal and
maturity payments this year and next than localities will offer
in debt sales, according to estimates from Bank of America
Merrill Lynch and Barclays Capital Inc. The market has shrunk
every year since peaking at  $3.77 trillion  in 2010, Federal
Reserve data show. Another contraction in 2014 would mean the
longest such span in Fed data going back to 1945.  Issuance is ebbing even as revenue is projected to grow for
the first time since 2006, according to the National League of
Cities. Four years after the longest recession since the 1930s,
communities have less appetite to borrow for work on roads and
bridges amid concern that the economy may falter again and sap
tax receipts, said Phil Fischer, head of muni research at Bank
of America in  New York .  “I always tell people that every time they hit a pothole,
they should roll down their window and tell the guy in the next
car that there aren’t enough municipal bonds, because that’s
literally what’s happened,” Fischer said.  Mitigating Losses  For investors, the decreased supply of securities is
helping mitigate losses in 2013, said Fischer and Tom Weyl, head
of muni research at Barclays in New York.  Detroit ’s record
municipal bankruptcy filing in July has contributed to a decline
of about 2.7 percent this year through Nov. 22, the worst
performance since 2008, Bank of America data show.  The market for state and local debt totaled  $3.72 trillion 
as of June 30, about 0.2 percent less than three months earlier,
Fed data show.  Issuers from  California  to New York are set to borrow $330
billion this year, $30 billion less than investors will receive
in principal and maturity payments, Fischer said. He anticipates
the mismatch will repeat in 2014, with bondholders getting back
about $25 billion more than anticipated issuance.  Yet the imbalance may only offer municipal bonds a limited
boost in 2014, as a growing economy fuels bets that the Fed will
curb its monthly bond buying, leading yields higher, Weyl and
Fischer said.  Yields on 10-year Treasuries will climb by 0.67 percentage
point in a year to 3.4 percent, according to the median forecast
of 62 analysts in a Bloomberg survey.  Missing Ingredient  “It’s hard to look at that environment and say you’ve got
the ingredients for positive returns in munis next year,” Weyl
said.  Any increase in yields will attract investors holding cash
and looking for a cheaper entry point, said Neil Klein, who
helps manage $1.2 billion of fixed income at Carret Asset
Management in New York.  “If interest rates did drift higher, you’re pulling those
investors that have been waiting for that yield level to come
back into the market,” Klein said.  Since 1989, the municipal market has posted annual losses
three times, Bank of America data show. Each time, the market
had double-digit gains the following year. Most recently, local
debt dropped about 4 percent in 2008, followed by a 14.5 percent
rebound in 2009.  Investment Deficit  U.S. cities expect general-fund revenue to grow 0.1 percent
in 2013, the first year-over-year increase since 2006, according
to an annual survey released last month by the  National League
of Cities . Yet spending, including on areas such as pensions and
health care, will rise 1.5 percent.  “City leaders will likely continue to be cautious about
making significant infrastructure investments,” according to
the report by the Washington-based group.  Infrastructure borrowing through 2020 will fall $1.6
trillion short of needed investment to maintain structures and
facilities, according to a March report from the American
Society of Civil Engineers.  In the municipal market this week, issuers plan to sell
about $544 million of long-term debt with yields at a two-month
high. The market is shut Nov. 28 for the Thanksgiving holiday.  Top-rated 10-year munis yield  2.89 percent , compared with
 2.73 percent  on similar-maturity Treasuries.  Relative View  The ratio of the  interest rates , a measure of relative
value, is about  106 percent , compared with a five-year average
of 102.5 percent. The higher the figure, the cheaper munis are
compared with federal securities.  Following is a pending sale:  New York’s Dormitory Authority plans to sell $370 million
of taxable revenue debt as soon as next week, data compiled by
Bloomberg show. Proceeds will allow the state’s Workers
Compensation Board to acquire unmet obligations of self-insured
employers and transfer the claims to third-party insurers, bond
documents show. The debt is backed by mandatory assessments paid
by most employers in the state, according to Moody’s Investors
Service, which gives the sale its top grade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michelle Kaske in New York at 
 mkaske@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Merelman at 
 smerelman@bloomberg.net  