-- Baht Extends Losses Before No-Confidence Debate Amid Protests
-- B y   Y u m i   T e s o
-- 2013-11-26T03:18:41Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/baht-extends-losses-before-no-confidence-debate-amid-protests.html
Thailand ’s baht extended losses to a
sixth day, the longest losing streak since April, ahead of a no-confidence debate in parliament today against Prime Minister
Yingluck Shinawatra as anti-government protests linger.  Demonstrators broke into a compound housing the Finance
Ministry yesterday and threatened to occupy more government
offices as they step up efforts to force Yingluck to resign.
The ministry failed to sell all of its bonds yesterday to
support a rice-purchase program due to the political protests
that threaten to hurt growth. The political wrangling has
prompted overseas investors to cut holdings of the nation’s
stocks and bonds.  “Foreigners were selling Thai assets because of the
political concern,” said Disawat Tiaowvanich, a currency trader
at Bangkok Bank Pcl. “The bigger concern is that the protests
will impact tourism, investment and domestic spending. The bias
remains for a weaker baht.”  The baht depreciated 0.2 percent to 32.05 per dollar as of
10:17 a.m. in Bangkok, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
It reached 32.11 earlier, the weakest level since Sept. 11. One-month implied volatility, a measure of expected moves in the
 exchange rate  used to price options, climbed eight basis points,
or 0.08 percentage point, to 6.07 percent.  Opposition parties are accusing the prime minister of
corruption and attempting to pass laws that would exonerate her
brother Thaksin of crimes he allegedly committed when in power.  Global funds pulled a net $209 million from Thai  bonds  and
equities yesterday, official data show.  Southeast Asia ’s second-biggest economy expanded 2.7 percent in the third quarter from a
year earlier, the least since the first three months of 2012.  Bonds Rise  Government bonds  rose today, with the yield on the 10-year
notes due in June 2023 declining three basis points to 4.25
percent, data compiled by Bloomberg show. It reached 4.28
percent yesterday, the highest level since Sept. 17.  The  Finance Ministry  sold 37 billion baht ($1.2 billion) of
government-guaranteed debt yesterday, or about half of what was
planned, on behalf of Bank for Agriculture & Agricultural
Cooperatives, which will issue the notes.  The funds are intended to support the government’s rice-purchase program for farmers. Thailand spent 688.8 billion baht
over the past two years from October 2011 buying 44 million tons
of rough rice from farmers at above market rates, official data
show. The  International Monetary Fund  urged the government to
cease the loss-making intervention.  The ministry sold three-year debt at 3.53 percent, or 39
basis points above sovereign bond yields, Chularat Suteethorn,
head of the Public Debt Management Office, said yesterday.  “If the situation was not like this, we should get a
better yield,” she said. The ministry will sell the remaining
bonds around January, she added.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yumi Teso in Bangkok at 
 yteso1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 James Regan  at 
 jregan19@bloomberg.net  