-- Billionaire Said to Consider IPO for Owner of Friendster
-- B y   E l f f i e   C h e w   a n d   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-11-26T04:51:52Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/billionaire-tan-said-to-consider-ipo-for-friendster-owner-mol.html
Malaysian billionaire Vincent Tan is
considering listing his online payments company  MOL Global Pte ,
four years after it bought social networking site Friendster
Inc., three people with knowledge of the matter said.  Tan is holding preliminary discussions with banks for a
dual listing on  Kuala Lumpur ’s stock exchange and either  Hong
Kong  or  Singapore , said two of the people, who asked not to be
identified as the process is private. An initial public offering
may raise as much as $300 million in the first half of next
year, they said.  MOL Global , which was founded in 2000, handles more than 60
million payments yearly totaling at least $300 million,
according to its website. In 2009, it bought  Friendster , owner
of one of the world’s oldest social networking sites, to tap
into its Asian subscriber base. It has since turned it primarily
into an Internet gaming network.  Ganesh Kumar Bangah, MOL Global’s group chief executive
officer, didn’t immediately respond to an e-mail and phone call
to his office in Kuala Lumpur.  An MOL Global IPO would be the latest listing by Tan, the
founder of Malaysia’s Berjaya Group which has interests
including property,  car dealerships  and lotteries. He’s
currently seeking a listing of 7-11 store operator Seven
Convenience Bhd., which could raise about 750 million ringgit
($233 million), people familiar with the matter said in August.  Earlier this year, he completed first-time share sales for
 Caring Pharmacy Group Bhd. (CARING) , which raised 43.8 million ringgit,
and Berjaya Auto Bhd., which raised 57.9 million ringgit,
according to their respective listing prospectuses.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Elffie Chew in Kuala Lumpur at 
 echew16@bloomberg.net ;
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  