-- Canada Grain Exports From Vancouver Seen Rising to All-Time High
-- B y   J e n   S k e r r i t t
-- 2013-11-26T00:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/canada-grain-exports-from-vancouver-seen-rising-to-all-time-high.html
Canadian grain shipments from
Vancouver, the nation’s largest port, are poised to reach a 
record this year on rising demand from  Asia .  Grain exported through  Port Metro Vancouver  may rise 6
percent in the 12 months that started Aug. 1, topping last
year’s record 18.8 million metric tons, said Dale Thulin, the
manager of supply-chain performance for the port.  “We’ve seen such a huge increase in container volume and
other bulk products going outbound, because they’re going into
the Asian markets,” Thulin said in a telephone interview from
Vancouver. “That’s where the demand is.”  Harvests of grains and oilseeds this year across  Canada ’s
prairies will climb 14 percent to a record 80.8 million tons,
the government said last week. Almost half of the nation’s grain
is bound for export, and about 47 percent is shipped through
 Vancouver .  “Big crops get consumed by big demand,” Wayne Palmer,
senior market analyst for Agri-Trend Marketing, said in a
telephone interview from Winnipeg. “We’ve got a big canola crop
out there.”  Exports of canola from Canada, the world’s largest grower,
may rise 10 percent this year as global demand climbs for
vegetable oil and protein, Agriculture & Agri-Food Canada said.
Shipments of all wheat varieties including durum may climb 5.4
percent.  China Demand  Some grain companies have sold more supplies to China than
they are able to transport by rail to export, Palmer said. There
are a lot of vessels waiting to load supplies in Vancouver
producers are trying to meet demand from Asia, he said.  China  bought 264,400 tons of wheat between Aug. 1 and the
end of October, more than double the 115,500 tons they imported
a year earlier, Canadian Grain Commission  data  show. Canola
shipments to China rose to 778,000 tons from 748,300 tons.  The port is able to handle higher volumes, and grain
companies and railways are doing everything they can to move
product to export, Thulin said.  “The railways have done a pretty good job of supplying a
consistent supply of rail cars to Vancouver,” Thulin said.
“I’m not sure it’s exactly the quantities the companies would
like, but it’s been consistent.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jen Skerritt in Winnipeg at 
 jskerritt1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Millie Munshi at 
 mmunshi@bloomberg.net  