-- China’s Stock-Index Futures Decline as Sinopec May Retreat
-- B y   B l o o m b e r g   N e w s
-- 2013-11-26T01:32:22Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/china-s-stock-index-futures-decline-as-sinopec-may-retreat.html
China’s stock-index futures  fell
after the benchmark index retreated for a third day.  Futures on the  CSI 300 Index (SHSZ300)  expiring in December lost 0.2
percent to 2,390.20 as of 9:18 a.m. local time.  China Petroleum
& Chemical Corp. (600028) , known as Sinopec, may decline after seven
people from the refiner were detained after a pipeline
explosion. Guangxi-based stocks including  Guangxi Wuzhou
Zhongheng Group Co. (600252)  and Guangxi Fenglin Wood Industry Group Co.
may move after the China Securities Journal said the province’s
Dongxing city may be allowed to set up a free-trade zone.  The  Shanghai Composite Index (SHCOMP)  dropped 0.5 percent to
2,186.12 yesterday. The CSI 300 Index slid 0.4 percent to
2,388.63. The  Hang Seng China Enterprises Index (HSCEI)  retreated 0.5
percent. The Bloomberg China-US Equity Index fell 1.4 percent.  The Shanghai Composite is down 3.7 percent this year and
trades at 8.6 times projected profit for the next 12 months,
compared with the seven-year average of 15.3, according to  data 
compiled by Bloomberg.  Sinopec,  Asia ’s biggest oil refiner, may be active. Seven
people from the company and two local officials were detained by
police after the Nov. 22 explosion in Qingdao, the city’s
Huangdao district government said in a posting on its official
microblog yesterday. The explosion at the pipeline operated by
Sinopec killed 55 people.  Sinopec won’t see any major negative earnings per-share
impact from the incident, according to Daiwa Securities Group
Inc. While the utilisation rate of Sinopec’s refinery may
decline in the near to medium term, the company should have
enough refined products stored in its various tank farms to
ensure that sales will not be disrupted, Daiwa Securities
analysts Adrian Loh and Benjamin Lim wrote in a note dated
yesterday. They have a hold rating on the company’s Hong Kong-traded shares.  Free Trade  China may include Dongxing in the  free-trade  zone trial,
the China Securities Journal reported today, without saying
where it got the information. Dongxing is the only Chinese city
connected by both land and sea with the Asean nations, it said.  China will proactively study and introduce preferred
shares, the Shanghai Securities News reported today, citing
China Securities Regulatory Commission Vice Chairman Yao Gang
speaking at a conference yesterday.  The government will also push forward asset securitization
and promote the development of private equity products,
according the report.  Chinese equities in the New York fell by the most in two
weeks, led by  Qihoo 360 Technology Co. (QIHU) , on concern revenue
growth will slow for the operator of the nation’s second-largest
search engine.  Qihoo dropped 9.5 percent, paring its rally this year to
164 percent. Airline stocks trimmed a three-day advance, led by
China Southern Airlines Co. Giant Interactive Group Inc. jumped
to the highest in five years after receiving a buyout offer.  To contact Bloomberg News staff for this story:
Zhang Shidong in Shanghai at 
 szhang5@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
 Michael Patterson  at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  