-- Christmas Without Slavery
-- B y   t h e   E d i t o r s
-- 2013-11-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/christmas-without-slavery.html
As they compete to get Christmas
shoppers the newest tablets, phones and cameras, electronics
makers contract with suppliers, factories and labor recruiters
across the globe.  For consumers, this means a bonanza of ever-cheaper, more
convenient gadgets. At the opposite end of the supply chain,
however, are people whose lives are often  made worse  by the
game. A Bloomberg News investigation  underscores  how  common it
is  that workers who make these products become indentured
servants, only a step removed from slavery.  Their plight results from the way employment recruiters in
the poorest of countries charge steep fees to people who want to
migrate to jobs in overseas manufacturing hubs. The workers are
thus saddled with debt that they must work for many months or
years to pay off.  To help stamp out this practice, the U.S. government has
proposed  new rules  that would prohibit the charging of
recruitment fees for any work it contracts. Because the U.S.
government is the world’s largest purchaser of goods and
services, this change could help root out the practice -- but
only if the U.S. punishes companies that violate the rules.  The  Electronic Industry Citizen Coalition ’s  code of conduct 
already forbids charging workers “excessive” recruitment fees
-- but doesn’t say what that means. Companies assume it’s any
amount exceeding the maximum established by a worker’s home or
host country -- for instance, the $800 Nepal sets for  Malaysia -
bound workers. Yet 80 percent of 60 Nepalese who had worked in
Malaysia and were interviewed by Bloomberg News said they were
charged more. Apple Inc. limits fees to one month’s salary. But
last year, when the company audited just some of the factories
in which migrant workers made its products, it discovered $6.4
million in fees beyond the ceiling.  One reason that workers end up paying more than the limit
is that one charge leads to another. Recruiters might impose an
initial fee within industry norms, then they, or brokers who
come into play later in the process, will spring additional
charges on the worker for such things as processing,
immigration, training and transportation. Having borrowed money
or sunk their life savings into the first fee, workers keep
paying, desperate to recoup their losses, even if it means
turning to loan sharks to cover the added payments.  To make matters worse, employers almost always seize the
worker’s passport, so he or she is further inhibited from
quitting -- and becoming an undocumented alien in a foreign
land.  Under U.S. law, this kind of  debt bondage  constitutes  human
trafficking . U.S. criminal law is rarely invoked in such cases,
however, because the recruiters are usually not American and
have no U.S. presence.  So it is through federal procurement policies that the U.S.
can have the most influence. Rules that have been drafted to
carry out an  executive order  signed by President  Barack Obama  a
year ago would bar federal purchases from companies whose
workers have been charged fees or had their passports taken.
Presumably, many of the electronics sellers that comply in order
to win lucrative U.S. government, especially military, contracts
would extend the policy to all their work.  The draft rules  would require  contractors to notify the
government of any credible violations. And companies with
contracts worth at least $500,000 would have to have plans to
prevent transgressions. The rules should be put into effect soon
after Dec. 20, when the period for public comments closes.  Then, the new policy will need to be enforced. Here, the
U.S. has a poor track record. In the early 2000s, third-country
nationals working for U.S. contractors to support diplomatic and
military missions in Iraq and Afghanistan  were found  to be
victims of debt bondage, and the abuses  continued  after they
were exposed.  Even though the new rules place the onus on companies to
abolish charging fees, government investigators will still have
to look for human trafficking connected with procurement
processes. They will need the resources it takes to vigorously
pursue cases. And contractors found to break the rules will need
to be terminated, unpaid.  To contact the Bloomberg View editorial board:
 view@bloomberg.net . 