-- DBS, ABN Said to Make Final Bids for SocGen’s Asian Private Bank
-- B y   J o y c e   K o h
-- 2013-11-26T01:57:58Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/dbs-abn-said-to-make-final-bids-for-socgen-s-asian-private-bank.html
DBS Group Holdings Ltd. (DBS)  and  ABN Amro 
Group NV made final offers for  Societe Generale (GLE)  SA’s private
banking business in Asia, said two people with knowledge of the
matter.  Bids submitted yesterday have valued the unit at $300
million to $400 million, one of the people said, asking not to
be identified as the process is private.  Societe Generale ,
France’s second-largest bank by market value, has been selling
assets from Japan to  North America  and is eliminating jobs as it
tries to boost profitability.  The total wealth of millionaires in the Asia-Pacific region
may top that of their peers in North America as soon as next
year as a resurgent Japanese economy boosts investor returns in
the country, according to a report by Cap Gemini SA and Royal
Bank of Canada published Sept. 25. Societe Generale’s Asian
private banking business oversees about $13 billion of assets.  Spokesmen for DBS, ABN Amro and Societe Generale declined
to comment on bidding for the unit.  DBS Chief Executive Officer  Piyush Gupta  said this month
the lender is interested in private banks with an Asia-focused
business, without naming any specific takeover targets.
Southeast Asia’s biggest bank said Nov. 12 it agreed to sell its
remaining stake in Bank of the Philippine Islands for S$850
million ($681 million) to Singapore’s sovereign wealth fund GIC
Pte and Ayala Corp.  ABN Amro, the state-owned Dutch lender, said in March it is
seeking to lower its reliance on the Netherlands by expanding
its international operations in areas including private banking.
The Dutch government said in August that it plans to sell ABN
Amro, formed after the collapse of Fortis five years ago, in an
initial public offering in 2015.  DBS runs  Asia ’s ninth-largest private bank, with assets
under management of $46 billion at the end of 2012, according to
a Private Banker International study published last month. ABN
Amro ranked 16th in the region with $15 billion of assets.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joyce Koh in Singapore at 
 jkoh38@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Philip Lagerkranser at 
 lagerkranser@bloomberg.net  