-- Exotix Planning African Office After Equity Hires From RenCap
-- B y   R e n e e   B o n o r c h i s
-- 2013-11-26T04:39:49Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/exotix-planning-african-office-after-equity-hires-from-rencap.html
Exotix Ltd., the London-based
investment bank boosting its African equities team, plans to
open its first office on the continent in the next six months.  Equity research will focus on financial services, consumer
stocks, telecommunications and industrial companies, London-based Ali Khalpey, head of African equities, said yesterday in
an interview in Johannesburg. Khalpey, 39, ruled out the South
African city, Nairobi and Lagos as locations for the first
office, without giving more details on the firm’s plans.  Renaissance Capital  and  Standard Bank Group Ltd. (SBK) ’s
securities unit are also expanding in  Africa  to tap into growth
rates higher than those of developed markets. Exotix said last
week it had hired Citigroup Inc.’s Kato Mukuru, Sruti Patel from
 Standard Bank  and James Busch from RenCap to expand its Africa
team. Khalpey, who joined Exotix from Moscow-based RenCap, also
plans to add an oil and gas research analyst, he said.  “We’re believing in the growth story so volumes is where
the opportunity comes in,” he said, adding that while equities
remain attractive there is some margin compression.  As infrastructure projects grow, companies will need to
raise capital, he said, adding that Nigerian banks will need to
to come to the market in 18 to 24 months to fund projects.  Egypt  has some “amazing companies,” he said. Countries
like Tunisia, Algeria and  Morocco  are undiscovered and also have
“world class companies that our clients can invest in.”  Exotix’s  equity unit offers sales, trading and structured
transactions, according to its website. The firm, which began in
1999, started as a fixed-income specialist and provides debt
capital services in sub-Saharan African countries, Khalpey said.  “The most exciting area of growth over the next decade
will be in the emerging and frontier markets outside of the
G20,” Phil Southwell, who became chief executive officer of
Exotix earlier this year, said in a statement last week. “With
the International Monetary Fund forecasting 5 percent real GDP
growth in 2013 and 6 percent in 2014, the investment case for
the region is compelling.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Renee Bonorchis in Johannesburg at 
 rbonorchis@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dale Crofts at 
 dcrofts@bloomberg.net  