-- Fracking Bonanza Eludes Wastewater Recycling Investors
-- B y   D a v i d   W e t h e   a n d   P e t e r   W a r d
-- 2013-11-26T00:00:02Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/fracking-bonanza-eludes-wastewater-recycling-investors.html
After two years searching for a
blockbuster investment in oilfield water management, fund
manager Judson Hill is still holding on to his money.  Hill’s NGP Energy Capital Management saw potential in what
looked like a hot growth area in energy: treating and recycling
the 21 billion barrels of wastewater flowing annually from U.S.
oil and natural gas wells -- particularly from shale.  Instead, it found the market “too fragmented and too
frothy,” said Hill, a managing director at the private equity
firm in  Texas  whose latest fund has invested $3.6 billion.
“It’s not as though we look back and say, ’Wow, half the ones
we passed on were just home runs.’ They weren’t.”  Cleaning up water in the oil patch is a tougher slog than
many expected. Geology and water chemistry vary so much by
location that no one has devised a cheap, one-size-fits-all
technology to convince most producers to recycle. While NGP and
its peers have successfully invested in U.S. shale producers,
picking a winner in water treatment eludes even  Schlumberger
Ltd. (SLB) , the world’s largest oilfield services provider.  Schlumberger jumped into water recycling years ago
envisioning a fast-growing, vibrant new specialty.  “We’ve spent millions and millions of dollars evaluating
virtually every available and reasonable-looking technology out
there, always hoping we’d find the silver bullet,” said Mark
Kidder, who runs Schlumberger’s oilfield water management unit.
“At this point, we found nothing.”  Recurring Losses  Other investors that sunk hundreds of millions of dollars
into companies that promised to solve water concerns spawned by
the shale-drilling boom have yet to see consistent returns for
treating water. Publicly traded targets including  Nuverra
Environmental Solutions Inc. (NES) ,  GreenHunter Resources Inc. (GRH)  and
 Aqua-Pure Ventures Inc. (AQE)  have reported a succession of losses
since 2011. Shares of the three companies have fallen an average
46 percent during the past 21 months.  Shale drillers use a method called hydraulic fracturing, or
fracking, which pumps millions of gallons of chemically treated
water down a well to crack rock and release oil and gas. Some of
that contaminated liquid comes back to the surface.  Oilfield veterans and rookies burst onto the scene with
inventions aimed at helping. General Electric Co.’s recycler is
called the Mobile Evaporator, a stainless steel boiler on
wheels. Baker Hughes Inc. sought to cut 96 percent of the water
used in fracking with a nitrogen-based foam, “like fracking
with shaving cream,” the company said in May 2011.  ‘Tough Business’  The geology of shale deposits are varied enough to thwart a
cost-effective, single solution originally envisioned by some
recyclers. Of the $31 billion spent each year on managing water
resources in U.S. and Canadian oilfields, $2.8 billion, or less
than 10 percent, is spent on recycling, according to PacWest
Consulting Partners LLC.  “A lot of people had really perceived this as a great
business,” David Rose, an analyst at Wedbush Securities Inc. in
 Los Angeles , said in a phone interview. “It’s an okay business
for some. It’s a really tough business for others.”  In  Pennsylvania  last year, operators cleaned and reused 85
percent of fracking and produced water because state rules, as
well as geology, makes water disposal more expensive there. In
most other regions, where disposal wells are more plentiful,
recycling amounts to 10 percent or less, according to PacWest
estimates.  Cost Factor  One big obstacle to more widespread recycling is the high
cost. The old-fashioned way is to throw away the dirty water by
injecting it deep into the Earth’s crust through wells drilled
just for this purpose. In Texas, producers spend about $1 to $3
a barrel to use and dispose of water that way, said Laura
Capper, founder of the Houston-based industry consultant  CAP
Resources .  Most recycling or treatment options are significantly more
expensive, including distillation and evaporation, which costs
anywhere from $2 to $6 per barrel, excluding “costly” hauling
services, according to PacWest.  Today more than half of U.S. shale and tight-gas reserves
are in areas where competition for water with other local users
ranks between medium and “extremely high”, according to a Nov.
7 report from industry consultant Wood Mackenzie Ltd. About 95
percent of all fracking in the U.S. last year used water as a
base fluid, according to data compiled by Bloomberg New Energy
Finance.  New Toolbox  For those who recycle, a toolbox stocked with several basic
technologies, such as filtering, chemical treatment and
evaporation, is winning out over one ubiquitous technology, said
Annie Lane, a chemical engineer at the nonprofit technology
research and development company  Battelle .  “We’ve weeded out a lot of the things that just don’t work
or are maybe too next-generation,” Lane said.  Schlumberger is among companies trying a different route,
working on technology that will allow producers to use dirtier
water, tainted with minerals such as salt, to frack wells.  Hill, whose fund is still looking to invest in a water
company, sees value in contractors providing “cradle-to-grave”
water services to operators. The water companies themselves see
a profitable future in the oilfield and are planning additional
projects to help get them there.  Aqua-Pure is forecasting its first-ever profit by the first
half of next year, said Brent Halldorson, chief operating
officer at Aqua-Pure. GreenHunter expects a doubling of annual
revenue this year, though a 33 cent adjusted loss per share is
expected in 2013 for a  stock trading  at about $1.34, according
to the average of three analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Expanding Business  Jonathan Hoopes, Greenhunter’s interim chief executive
officer, is considering mergers and joint ventures to expand its
business.  “We’re open to partnering with any or all of the water
technologies that work,” Hoopes said.  At Nuverra, where water management is no longer the sole
focus, the company is partnering in  North Dakota ’s Bakken shale
with  Halliburton Co. (HAL) , the world’s largest fracking service
provider, to use recycled water for fracking, CEO Mark Johnsrud
said in an interview.  “The size of the opportunity is huge,” he said. “It just
takes a while for new ideas and new concepts to be adopted.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
David Wethe in Houston at 
 dwethe@bloomberg.net ;
Peter Ward in  New York  at 
 pward41@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Susan Warren at 
 susanwarren@bloomberg.net  