-- India’s Nifty Index Futures Decline Amid Slowing Foreign Inflow
-- B y   R a j h k u m a r   K   S h a a w
-- 2013-11-26T02:03:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/india-s-nifty-index-futures-decline-amid-slowing-foreign-inflow.html
Indian stock-index futures fell
after the benchmark rallied the most in a week yesterday.  SGX CNX Nifty Index futures  for November delivery fell 0.7
percent to 6,094 at 9:43 a.m. in  Singapore . The underlying CNX
 Nifty (NIFTY)  Index climbed 2 percent to 6,115.35 yesterday. The S&P BSE
Sensex rebounded 1.9 percent after losing 3.2 percent in the
previous three days. The Bank of  New York  Mellon India ADR Index
of U.S.-traded shares rose 0.3 percent.  International investors bought a net $2.7 million of local
shares on Nov. 22, according to data from the market regulator.
Foreign funds purchased a net $13.4 million of Indian stocks in
the three days through Nov. 22, compared with an average $128
million a day in a 30-day buying spree that began on Oct. 3, the
data show.  “The market is seeing a slowdown in terms of inflows and
it’s a little disturbing given that we have had a very good
season in the last two-to-three months,” Taher Badshah, co-head
of equities at Motilal Oswal Asset Management Co., wrote in an
e-mail yesterday. “It’s in line with what is happening in
emerging Asia as well.”  Indian (SENSEX)  stocks have lured $17.2 billion of inflows this
year, the highest after Japan among 10 Asian markets tracked by
Bloomberg.  Iranian Oil  The Sensex advanced the most in Asia yesterday amid
speculation falling oil prices will cool inflation after  Iran 
agreed to limit its nuclear program in exchange for relief from
some sanctions.  The lifting of a European Union ban on insuring tankers
carrying Iranian oil as part of a nuclear deal will ease the
process of buying the Persian Gulf state’s crude, according to
Indian refiners. China, Japan and India are the world’s three
biggest buyers of Iranian crude.  Shares of  IBDI Bank Ltd. (IDBI)  may move. Standard & Poor’s cut
the company’s credit rating to BB+/B yesterday, with a negative
outlook, saying it expects “the bank’s asset quality to remain
weak over the next 12 to 18 months.”  The Sensex has gained 6.1 percent this year, the largest
increase among the four biggest  emerging markets , and trades at
13.5 times projected 12-month profits, compared with the MSCI
Emerging Markets Index’s 10.6 times.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Rajhkumar K Shaaw in Mumbai at 
 rshaaw@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Patterson at 
 mpatterson10@bloomberg.net  