-- Rio Reviewing Alumina Refinery As Market Conditions Worsen
-- B y   E l i s a b e t h   B e h r m a n n
-- 2013-11-26T02:46:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/rio-reviewing-alumina-refinery-as-market-conditions-worsen.html
Rio Tinto Group (RIO) , the world’s second-biggest mining company, dropped a plan to convert its loss-making Gove alumina refinery to a cheaper fuel source because
prices and exchange rates have worsened.  “Despite considerable efforts to improve the refinery’s
performance, continuing low alumina prices, a high  exchange rate 
and substantial after-tax losses for the refinery are key
factors under consideration,” the London-based company said in
an e-mailed statement. “Plans to convert the alumina refinery
to gas will no longer proceed, and Rio Tinto is now considering
future options around the alumina refinery.”  Rio has been reviewing the operation since at least last
October. The review included talks with government to supply
cheaper gas. Aluminum, which is smelted from Alumina, was Rio’s
 least profitable  business unit last year, earning net income of
$3 million on sales of $10.1 billion, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg.  There has been no final decision about the future of the
refinery and bauxite mining operations will continue “under all
scenarios,” the company said. “ Rio Tinto  will be consulting
with employees and the community in the coming weeks and will
advise all stakeholders about its decision at the earliest
opportunity.”  Rio fell 0.7 percent to A$64.93 at 12:26 p.m. in Sydney
trading. Aluminum has declined 11 percent in the past year.  Gove, located 650 kilometers (404 miles) east of the
territory’s capital Darwin, has about 1,400 employees and
contractors, according to Rio’s website. Output was 1.6 million
metric tonnes in the first nine months of 2013, representing
about 24 percent of Rio’s total production.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Elisabeth Behrmann in Sydney at 
 ebehrmann1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Hobbs at 
 ahobbs4@bloomberg.net  