-- SNB’s Jordan Sees No Reason to Remove Cap on Swiss Franc
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   B o s l e y
-- 2013-11-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/snb-s-jordan-sees-no-reason-to-remove-cap-on-swiss-franc.html
The  Swiss National Bank (SNBN) ’s cap on the
franc remains appropriate given the currency’s strength and
economic risks in the euro area, President Thomas Jordan said
yesterday.  “We believe the franc is still highly valued and there is
no risk of inflation,” said Jordan late yesterday, speaking at
a business reception in his home town of Biel,  Switzerland .
“The minimum  exchange rate  remains indispensable to ensure
 price stability  in Switzerland.”  The Zurich-based central bank set a cap of 1.20 per euro on
the franc in September 2011, citing the risk of deflation and a
recession. It has promised unlimited currency interventions to
defend the cap and Jordan repeated that commitment yesterday.  While consumer prices are falling, the Swiss  economy  has
escaped an economic slump and managed to stay unscathed from the
debt crisis that has afflicted the neighboring euro area, its
biggest trading partner.  “The crisis hasn’t yet been fully overcome” in the 17-nation currency bloc, Jordan said.  The franc ceiling will stay in place until after the first
quarter of 2015, according to 64 percent of 11 economists
surveyed by  Bloomberg News  earlier this month.  The SNB has accumulated 434.7 billion Swiss francs ($475
billion) in  foreign-currency reserves  in its campaign to defend
franc cap. Even so, the central bank hasn’t had to intervene in
 currency markets  for more than a year, policy makers have said.  Because of the central bank’s loose policy, the Swiss  real-estate market  is in the midst of its strongest accent in two
decades. The SNB has repeatedly warned of overheating, and was
behind the government’s implementation of a capital buffer for
banks to guard against mortgage writedowns that came into effect
in September.  Jordan said yesterday that it is still too early to say
whether the capital buffer is proving effective.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Catherine Bosley in Zurich at 
 cbosley1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  