-- U.K. Lawmakers Seek ‘Sharp’ Change as Bank Bill Moves to Lords
-- B y   R o b e r t   H u t t o n
-- 2013-11-26T00:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-11-26/u-k-lawmakers-seek-sharp-change-as-bank-bill-moves-to-lords.html
U.K. lawmakers who carried out an
inquiry into banking standards will make a new attempt to amend
the Financial Services Bill to align it with their conclusions.  The legislation returns to the House of Lords for its
report stage today, with two days of debate scheduled. Members
of the inquiry, which was led by Andrew Tyrie, chairman of the
House of Commons Treasury Committee, have tabled 10 amendments.
They include demands for a review of proprietary trading rules
and a reserve power to insist on full separation of retail and
investment banking operations.  Tyrie said in an interview published Nov. 8 that the bill 
risked becoming a “botched job,” with “amendments piled on 
amendments piled on amendments.” He repeated those warnings 
in today’s Financial Times.  “We are at a critical stage,” Tyrie told the paper.
“What we are needing is a sharp, cultural change by regulators,
almost as much as we require it of banks, away from box ticking,
back covering to a much more judgmental approach, targeted at
what is really required.”  The question of bank regulation is back in the political
spotlight after the former chairman of Co-Operative Bank Plc,
Paul Flowers, was filmed by a newspaper buying crack cocaine.
Yesterday, a report by a government adviser accused  Royal Bank
of Scotland Group Plc (RBS)  of deliberately forcing troubled companies
into bankruptcy in order to boost its own profits.  Tyrie’s panel was established by Chancellor of the
Exchequer George Osborne in the wake of the Libor-rigging
scandal. It advocated delays of as long as a decade for bonus
payouts and making the reckless management of lenders a crime.  The bill before the Lords today has increased in size to
177 pages from its original 35.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Robert Hutton in London at 
 rhutton1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  