-- ‘Child’s Pose’ Wins Top Award at Berlin Movie Festival
-- B y   C a t h e r i n e   H i c k l e y
-- 2013-02-16T23:00:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/-child-s-pose-wins-top-award-at-berlin-movie-festival.html
The Romanian movie “Child’s Pose,”
a psychodrama about a dominant Bucharest mother who refuses to
allow her adult son his independence, won the top Golden Bear
award at this year’s  Berlin Film Festival .  Directed by Calin Peter Netzer, the film opens with the
news that Bardu, the son, has killed a boy in a traffic
accident. His mother Cornelia immediately begins pulling strings
and paying bribes to keep him out of jail for speeding -- an
insight into corruption endemic in Romanian society.  “The starting-point of this film is my relationship with
my mother, but the rest is fiction,” Netzer told German
television. “She has seen it, and she even liked it.”  The winners were selected from 19 films in competition by a
seven-member international jury led by the Chinese director Wong
Kar Wai. Other jury members included the actor  Tim Robbins  and
German director Andreas Dresen.  The Berlin Film Festival traditionally supports edgy,
political dramas. The Silver Bear Jury Grand Prix was last night
awarded to the Bosnian film “An Episode in the Life of an Iron-
Picker,” which features a Roma family living in desperate
poverty and unable to pay for urgently needed medical treatment.  Nazif Mujic, who plays a father who cannot afford a life-
saving operation for his wife, won a Silver Bear for the best
actor award. Mujic portrayed himself in the film, as it reenacts
a real episode in the family’s lives.  “Sometimes good things can come out of anger,”  Danis Tanovic , the film’s director, said at the award ceremony. “I
hope I will come back to Berlin with some happier subject
another time.”  Chilean Divorce  The Silver Bear award for best female actor went to Paulina
Garcia for her performance in the title role of “Gloria,” as a
58-year-old divorced Chilean woman who is determined to fall in
love and live life to the full.  David Gordon Green won the Silver Bear award for best
director for “Prince Avalanche,” a comedy about two men who
bond while painting yellow lines down the middle of a road in
the wilds of Texas. Alvin ( Paul Rudd ) is serious and reflective,
where Lance ( Emile Hirsch ) is interested only in sexual
conquests.  The Silver Bear best script prize was awarded to Jafar
Panahi and Kamboziya Partovi for “Closed Curtain,” a film shot
entirely in a villa on the Iranian coast, in defiance of a ban.
Panahi is barred from traveling or making movies and could not
attend the awards ceremony.  A Silver Bear for innovative film-making was awarded to the
Canadian film “Vic & Flo Saw a Bear” by Denis Cote. The prize
for the best first film went to “The Rocket” by Australian
director Kim Mordaunt.  To contact the reporter on the story:
 Catherine Hickley  in Berlin at 
 chickley@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Manuela Hoelterhoff at 
 mhoelterhoff@bloomberg.net . 