-- Asian Stocks Decline as Japan’s Topix Snaps Win Streak
-- B y   Y o s h i a k i   N o h a r a
-- 2013-02-16T00:38:46Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/asian-stocks-decline-as-japan-s-topix-snaps-win-streak.html
Asian stocks dropped for the first
week in three, with Japan’s Topix Index halting its longest
winning streak in 40 years, after earnings reports from Nissan
Motor Co. and Gree Inc. disappointed investors.  Nissan sank 5.6 percent in Tokyo after the carmaker’s
earnings missed estimates on slumping sales in China. Gree, the
social-network site operator headed by Japan’s youngest
billionaire, fell 22 percent after cutting a profit forecast on
game delays. Chow Sang Sang Holdings International Ltd., a Hong
Kong-based jeweler, climbed 4.3 percent as mainland tourists
flooded the city during the Lunar New Year holiday.  The  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  fell 0.2 percent to 132.84,
closing the week within 1 percent of its highest since August
2011. Markets in China, Taiwan and Vietnam were shut for the
holidays and the trading week was shortened in Hong Kong,
Singapore, South Korea and Japan.  “There is a risk of a correction, but it may be shallow,”
said David Cassidy, Sydney-based head of equity strategy at UBS
AG. “People aren’t positioned for this rally and they are still
scrambling to buy. So I wouldn’t be getting too bearish on
equities right now.”  The MSCI Asia Pacific Index has advanced about 10 percent
since November, led by Japanese shares, as Prime Minister Shinzo
Abe pledged to beat deflation and pushed the central bank to
ease monetary policy. Asia’s benchmark trades at 14.7 times
average estimated earnings compared with 13.7 for the  Standard &
Poor’s 500 Index  and 12.3 for the  Stoxx Europe 600 Index ,
according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Australia’s S&P/ASX 200 Index climbed 1.3 percent this
week. Hong Kong’s Hang Seng Index gained 1 percent. Singapore’s
Straits Times Index rose 0.4 percent.  Nuclear Tension  South Korea’s  Kospi Index  added 1.6 percent. The benchmark
retreated Feb. 12. after North Korea conducted its third nuclear
test and warned of further action.  Topix, Japan’s broadest share gauge, declined 1.6 percent,
halting a 13-week run of gains that was the longest such streak
since 1973. Shares slid as the yen strengthened, the Bank of
Japan refrained from adding stimulus, and a report showed the
economy shrank for a third quarter.  The benchmark  Nikkei 225 Stock Average  added 0.2 percent
after dropping the previous week.  Japanese shares gained early in the week after Haruhiko
Kuroda, a possible contender to take over from Bank of Japan
Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, said a case could be made for more
easing. Reuters yesterday cited people close to the selection
process as saying the leading candidate is Toshiro Muto, a
former BOJ deputy governor who opposed low-interest rates.
Shirakawa steps down next month.  Tougher Stance?  Group of 20 finance chiefs meeting in Moscow debated
adopting a tougher stance on exchange rates as they prepare to
reiterate a pledge against competitive devaluations. The yen
fell after a G-20 official said there isn’t a plan to echo a
Group of Seven promise to avoid using policies to target
exchange rates.  Nissan dropped 5.6 percent to 932 yen this week in Tokyo.
Japan’s second-biggest carmaker reported third-quarter profit
that fell short of analysts’ estimates after sales tumbled in
China and new models trailed competitors in the U.S.  Toyota Motor Corp. and  Honda Motor Co.  each slid more than
2 percent.  Gree slumped 22 percent to 1,086 yen after the social-
network operator cut its profit goal on new game delays and
slower-than-expected overseas sales. Games including “One
Piece” were postponed after it took time to remove a feature
from existing titles that were ruled illegal, the company said.  Of the 331 companies on the  MSCI Asia Pacific Index  that
have reported earnings this quarter and for which Bloomberg has
estimates, 51 percent exceeded profit expectations. That
compares with the 73 percent of S&P 500 companies that topped
profit forecasts.  Holiday Sales  Hong Kong retailers climbed. More than 380,000 tourists
visited during the holiday, up from 286,000 a year earlier, the
South China Morning Post reported, citing the city’s immigration
department.  Chow Sang Sang gained 4.3 percent to HK$21.70.  Chow Tai
Fook Jewellery Group Ltd.  rose 2.6 percent to HK$11.94.  Commonwealth Bank rose 3.4 percent to A$67.03 in Sydney
after the lender’s net income rose 1 percent to a record. Chief
Executive Officer Ian Narev was able to preserve interest
margins even after six central-bank rate cuts.  Leighton Holdings Ltd. surged 12 percent to A$22.68 after
Australia’s largest construction company returned to profit as
it completed major projects and cut debt. The builder completed
a toll road in Brisbane and a desalination plant in Victoria,
which along with another venture caused more than A$1.3 billion
($1.3 billion) of losses and impairments.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Yoshiaki Nohara in Tokyo at 
 ynohara1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Nick Gentle at 
 ngentle2@bloomberg.net  