-- Malaysia Expels Australian Senator Before Anwar Meeting
-- B y   J a s o n   S c o t t   a n d   G a n   Y e n   K u a n
-- 2013-02-17T04:36:17Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/australian-senator-detained-in-malaysia-ahead-of-anwar-meeting.html
An Australian lawmaker returned to
Melbourne today after being expelled from Malaysia where he was
due to hold meetings with politicians, including opposition
leader  Anwar Ibrahim , as the country gears up for elections.  Independent Senator  Nick Xenophon , who said he was detained
in Kuala Lumpur yesterday for his pro-democracy views, has
previously criticized Malaysia’s democratic processes in
Australia’s parliament. Prime Minister Julia Gillard told
reporters she was “surprised and disappointed” by the
incident.  Malaysian Prime Minister  Najib Razak , who must dissolve
parliament by April 28 ahead of holding elections, is fighting
to retain power for a coalition that has governed the Southeast
Asian nation since independence in 1957. Xenophon landed in
Kuala Lumpur ahead of a planned visit by a delegation of
Australian lawmakers, which is now canceled.  “It’s quite disturbing,” Anwar told reporters in Kuala
Lumpur yesterday on the detention of Xenophon, whom he described
as a friend. The incident shows “that the government is not
prepared for international observers and to have a transparent,
clean process” for the elections, he said.  The delegation, which was to include the ruling Labor
Party’s Steve Georganas, the Liberal Party’s Mal Washer and the
National Party’s John Williams, had been planned two months ago,
Xenophon told reporters in Melbourne today. While it wasn’t an
official delegation on behalf of the Australian government, it
was due to meet  Nazri Aziz , Malaysia’s de facto law minister, on
Feb. 19, he said.  Low-Key Visit  The Malaysian government has “miscalculated because this
was going to be a low-key visit,” said Xenophon, who added he
has a defamation suit pending against government-backed media in
the nation. “It’s spectacularly backfired on them. If it means
that more Australians and more people in the region are aware of
just how dire the state of Malaysian democracy is, and how it
really is at the crossroads, that’s a good thing.”  The lawmakers were scheduled to meet Anwar on Feb. 18,
Xenophon said. They also expected to discuss the forthcoming
polls with officials from the Election Commission, he said.  The lawmaker from South Australia state said he was told by
police upon arrival “they had orders from above, that I was a
security risk and I had to be deported,” he told the Australian
Broadcasting Corp. in a live phone interview yesterday. Although
told by officers he was not allowed to use his mobile phone,
they didn’t confiscate it, he said.  Sodomy Trial  Xenophon today said he met with Anwar in Australia in 2010
and last year as an observer attended his trial for sodomy, in
which Anwar was acquitted. Xenophon’s been placed on a watchlist
and is banned from re-entering the country, he said.  “We made immediate and strenuous representations on his
behalf, not only in relation to him being detained but in terms
of him being allowed to be in Malaysia,” Gillard told reporters
in Melbourne today. “Clearly we didn’t succeed. We continue to
pursue this issue with the Malaysian government.”  The senator was denied entry for violating Malaysian law
during a previous visit, Malaysia’s immigration department said
yesterday, claiming that Xenophon participated in an illegal
street protest in Kuala Lumpur last year.  “Malaysia is a free and democratic country, but no one is
above the law,” Alias Ahmad, Director-General of Immigration
Department, said in an e-mailed statement. “Authorities will
take the appropriate action against any individual deemed to
have violated national laws.”  Defamation Case  Xenophon is pursuing a defamation case against Malaysian
government-backed media organizations, he said, without
identifying them. The groups published a speech he gave
criticizing Scientology and replaced that word with “Islam,”
the lawmaker said.  Najib, 59, saw his popularity rating fall to the lowest
level in 16 months in December, according to the Merdeka Center
for Opinion Research. That month he said his National Front
coalition aimed to regain the two-thirds parliamentary majority
it lost in 2008.  Anwar’s People’s Alliance, which tested official tolerance
for public dissent on Jan. 12 by holding a rally in Kuala
Lumpur, controls four out of the country’s 13 states, including
Selangor and Penang.  “This act of detention and proposed deportation for
partisan political reasons is therefore a gross abuse of
power,” Anwar said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “It is
also clearly a violation of international protocol.”  Fired, Jailed  Fired as deputy prime minister in 1998 by then-Prime
Minister  Mahathir Mohamad , Anwar was sentenced to nine years in
jail for sodomy and a separate corruption charge at that time,
before being released in 2004 after Malaysia’s highest court
overturned the sex conviction. He was ineligible for office
until 2008.  Anwar won back the Permatang Pauh parliamentary seat in the
northern state of Penang in August 2008, after his wife  Wan Azizah Wan Ismail  vacated it to enable him to compete.  Malaysia’s elections are widely expected to be held between
the third week of March and second week of April, according to a
note by Barclays Plc dated Feb. 1.  The Malaysian Bar Council said the government action
against the Australian senator was absurd and shameful.  “Criticism of policy and governance must be respected and
received without reprisal,” Lim Chee Wee, president of the
council, said in an e-mailed statement yesterday. “Any other
reaction would be a sign of insecurity, and would disrespect the
rule of law.”  Previous Incident  A diplomatic incident between Australia and Malaysia
wouldn’t be the first. In 1993, then-Australian Prime Minister
 Paul Keating  called Mahathir a “recalcitrant.” That led the
National Front leader to threaten to reduce trade ties with
Australia before Keating apologized.  Malaysia and Australia signed a free-trade agreement in May
2012. Two-way trade between the nations totaled A$14.2 billion
($14.6 billion) in the year to June 30, 2012, according to
Australian government figures.  “Australia’s relationship with Malaysia is underpinned by
strong people-to-people links and a significant program of two-
way, high-level visits across a broad range of portfolios,” the
Department of Foreign Affairs says in a briefing on its website.  Australia’s Foreign Minister Bob Carr, who last visited
Malaysia Nov. 3-7, told reporters in Sydney today that he didn’t
expect relations between the two countries to be damaged by the
incident.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Jason Scott in Canberra at 
 jscott14@bloomberg.net ;
 Gan Yen Kuan  in Kuala Lumpur at 
 ykgan@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  