-- Benedict to Meet Monti Days Before Pope Resigns and Italy
-- B y   L o r e n z o   T o t a r o   a n d   A l e s s a n d r a   M i g l i a c c i o
-- 2013-02-16T09:35:57Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/benedict-to-meet-monti-days-before-pope-resigns-and-italy.html
Pope  Benedict XVI  will meet Italy’s
outgoing Prime Minister  Mario Monti  today, his last audience
with a head of government before he resigns his pontificate and
a week before national elections.  Monti, whose coalition was running fourth in most polls
published before a blackout period began on Feb. 9, will meet
the Pope in the Vatican at 6 p.m. Rome time. The audience is one
of the last commitments for Benedict, who will step down on Feb.
28, becoming the first pontiff to resign in almost 600 years.  Italy’s vote on Feb. 24 and 25 may produce an hung
parliament as the bloc of former premier  Silvio Berlusconi  has
cut the lead of frontrunner  Pier Luigi Bersani ’s coalition.
Bersani risks falling short of a majority in the Senate and he
may have to seek an alliance with Monti, who may be able to
offer little help should his bloc end up behind the anti-
austerity 5 Star movement founded by comic  Beppe Grillo .  “The holy father will meet Monti as Italy’s prime minister
and not a candidate to the election,” Vatican spokesman
 Federico Lombardi  said on Feb. 13 at a press conference in Rome
in response to a question about whether the event may amount to
an improper interference in the election. Catholics represent 95
percent of the Italian population, according to the Vatican
Statistics Book for 2010.  Before his resignation, Benedict will also meet with
Italy’s President  Giorgio Napolitano  on Feb. 23.  His papacy will come to end outside the Vatican on Feb. 28
when Benedict boards a helicopter to leave for Castel Gandolfo,
his summer residence.  In a conclave likely to be held in mid-March, 117 cardinals
from around the word will vote for Bendict’s successor. At the
same time, the new Italian parliament will convene for the first
time in Rome.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Lorenzo Totaro in Rome at 
 ltotaro@bloomberg.net ;
Alessandra Migliaccio in Rome  at 
 amigliaccio@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net ;
Will Kennedy at 
 wkennedy3@bloomberg.net  