-- Blackburn Upsets Arsenal 1-0 in F.A. Cup as Luton’s Run Ends
-- B y   B o b   B e n s c h
-- 2013-02-16T20:26:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/blackburn-upsets-arsenal-1-0-in-f-a-cup-as-luton-s-run-ends.html
Blackburn upset Arsenal 1-0 to
advance to the quarterfinals of soccer’s F.A. Cup, as non-League
Luton Town’s run in the competition came to an end.  Colin Kazim-Richards  scored the only goal in the 72nd
minute to send Blackburn, which was relegated to the second-tier
Championship from the Premier League last season, into the final
eight. Luton, the only team from outside England’s top four
divisions in the fifth round, was beaten 3-0 by Millwall.  Oldham earned a replay after a goal in stoppage time gave
it a 2-2 draw with Everton and Barnsley defeated Milton Keynes
Dons 3-1 in today’s other matches.  Arsenal had a 26-6 advantage in shot attempts and dominated
possession at the Emirates Stadium in north London but was
unable to beat Blackburn goalkeeper Jake Kean. The Gunners,
who’ve not won a trophy since the 2005 F.A. Cup, were also
knocked out of the League Cup by a lower-division side when they
lost to Bradford.  Arsenal pressured the Blackburn end in the first half with
Kean making saves against  Abou Diaby , Olivier Giroud and  Mikel Arteta , while Gervinho shot wide after getting behind the
defense.  The Gunners continued to press in the second half and just
missed taking the lead in the 68th minute when  Tomas Rosicky  hit
the crossbar.  Manager  Arsene Wenger  then brought on a trio of regular
starters who were rested with a Champions League game against
Bayern Munich coming up in four days -- midfielders  Santi Cazorla  and  Jack Wilshere  and forward  Theo Walcott  -- but it was
Blackburn that scored a minute later.  Kazim-Richards  Martin Olsson’s shot was parried away by Arsenal goalkeeper
Wojciech Szczesny toward Kazim-Richards, whose mis-hit attempt
on the rebound went in off the post. Rovers then spent most of
the remaining time defending as Kean stopped a header from
Walcott while Francis Coquelin and Arteta shot wide before the
final whistle.  James Henry,  Rob Hulse  and Dany N’Guessan scored to send
Millwall of the Championship to its first quarterfinal
appearance since 2004.  Luton was seeking to become the first club from below
England’s top four divisions to reach the F.A. Cup quarterfinals
since 1914. The Hatters, who play in the fifth-tier Football
Conference Premier League, upset Norwich of the Premier League
1-0 in the fourth round.  Millwall took the lead in the 12th minute as Luton’s Janos
Kovacs lost control of the ball to Henry, who went around the
goalkeeper and slid a shot into the open net. Hulse doubled the
lead in the 36th minute and N’Guessan clinched the victory with
four minutes remaining.  Stoppage Time  Matt Smith scored in the final seconds of stoppage time as
Oldham pulled off its second straight F.A. Cup surprise against
a Premier League club from Liverpool by drawing with Everton.  Jordan Obita gave Oldham, which is just above the
relegation zone in third-level League One, the lead in the 13th
minute and Victor Anichebe scored for Everton 11 minutes.  Phil Jagielka  then scored off a Kevin Mirallas corner kick
to put Everton in front three minutes into the second half.  After Everton goalkeeper  Tim Howard  stopped Robbie
Simpson’s close-range shot in the 89th minute, Smith, who scored
twice in Oldham’s 3-2 win over Liverpool in the fourth round,
headed in a cross just before the final whistle.  Barnsley made it three Championship sides in the
quarterfinals with its win at League One’s MK Dons. Chris
Dagnall put the Tykes in front after three minutes and  Marlon Harewood  made it 2-0 in the 19th minute.  Dean Bowditch pulled MK Dons within a goal in the second
half, but Dagnall clinched the victory in the final minute.  Alan Smith  was then sent off for the Dons in injury time for a
challenge on  Rory Delap .  The F.A. Cup continues tomorrow with a pair of fifth-round
matchups as Manchester City meets Leeds and Wigan is at
Huddersfield. Defending champion Chelsea also hosts Brentford
in a fourth-round replay after the clubs drew 2-2 last month.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Bob Bensch  in London at 
 bbensch@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net . 