-- Brazil’s Santos Port Workers to Strike for 6 Hours, Union Says
-- B y   M a t t h e w   M a l i n o w s k i
-- 2013-02-16T18:51:43Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/brazil-s-santos-port-workers-to-strike-for-6-hours-union-says.html
Workers at Brazil’s Santos port will
participate in a six-hour work stoppage on Feb. 22 to protest
government plans for shipping terminals in the world’s second-
largest emerging market.  The Santos strike will be followed by similar stoppages at
other ports nationwide, said  Paulo Pereira da Silva , federal
deputy and president of the Forca Sindical labor confederation.
Workers are planning an open-ended strike starting March 18 if
no agreement has been reached with the government, Pereira said.  Port union leaders in Brazil, the largest exporter of sugar
and orange juice, are protesting government plans to cede
control of as many as 95 terminals to private operators.
President  Dilma Rousseff  has instructed officials to resist
union pressure and continue with plans, which aim to attract
54.2 billion reais ($27.5 billion) in private port investments
and help stimulate an economy that grew 1 percent last year,
according to the central bank.  Changing ownership of the country’s ports will cause both
firings and worsening job conditions for workers who stay on,
Pereira said.  “We are going to start work stoppages next week,” Pereira
said in a telephone interview from Brasilia today.
“Negotiations with the government have been bad.”  Port workers will meet from Feb. 19 to Feb. 21 to pick the
dates and locations for the smaller work stoppages after Santos,
Pereira said. The Santos strike will take place the same day as
the next meeting between union leaders and government
authorities.  “We have opened up the negotiation table,” a government
spokeswoman said by telephone today from Brasilia. “They are
going to have internal discussions and then meet with us on
Friday.”  The Brazilian government won’t accept changing rules that
will hurt the goal of introducing more port competition, Chief
of Staff  Gleisi Hoffman  said in a telephone interview on Feb.
14.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Matthew Malinowski in Brasilia at 
 mmalinowski@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Sylvia Wier at 
 swier@bloomberg.net  