-- China Misses ‘Hard Landing’ as Government Spends, Li Daokui Says
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-02-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/china-misses-hard-landing-as-government-spends-li-daokui-says.html
China’s economy averted a steep
slowdown and is poised to grow “reasonably fast” as incomes in
the most-populous nation rise, a former adviser to the country’s
central bank said.  Li Daokui , an economist at Tsinghua University who was an
adviser to the People’s Bank of China from 2010 to 2012, said in
an interview with CNN that China’s decision to speed up
construction projects kept its rate of growth from slowing more
than it did.  “A soft landing is there,” Li said in an interview with
 CNN ’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” airing today, according to a
transcript. “A hard landing has been already avoided. I’ve been
talking about this for the past two years -- maybe two and a
half years -- that is the growth rate will slow down a little
bit and then pick up.”  China’s  gross domestic product  grew by 7.9 percent in the
final three months of the year, halting a seven-quarter
deceleration. Growth was fueled by government efforts that drove
a rebound in industrial output, retail sales and the housing
market.  Li said the government helped buoy the economy by speeding
up work on railroad projects and new steel factories. With the
country’s per-capita income 18 percent of that in the U.S., Li
said China will continue to grow quickly as its economy bridges
the gap with the rest of the world.  “The economy is still a poor economy,” he said. ”So
there’s a long way to go for the Chinese economy to catch up. So
that fundamentally, there are still basic forces, both on the
demand side, supply side, so on and so forth, to push the
economy to grow reasonably fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  