-- Congress Seen Allowing Cuts to Start as Pressure Tactic
-- B y   K a t h l e e n   H u n t e r   a n d   J a m e s   R o w l e y
-- 2013-02-16T05:01:00Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/congress-seen-allowing-cuts-to-start-as-pressure-tactic.html
The latest pressure tactic in
Congress’s feud over how to halt $1.2 trillion in across-the-
board federal spending cuts may be to let them take effect.  Democrats set on enacting tax increases and Republicans who
oppose them would have a greater incentive to compromise
following March 1 cuts in spending to government programs, known
as sequestration, lawmakers in both parties said.  “When flights start getting canceled and the beef
inspectors stop inspecting beef, I think that people will know
what sequester is,” said Republican Representative  Tom Rooney 
of Florida.  Though both parties agree the cuts may damage the U.S.
economy and hamper national security, neither side is giving
ground as lawmakers return to their districts for a one-week
recess. It marks the latest showdown between Democrats and
Republicans with no signs of movement as the deadline nears.  Members of President  Barack Obama ’s Cabinet and military
leaders told lawmakers this week that the spending reductions
would harm national defense and cut back programs such as
education, food inspection and air-traffic control.  “My gut feeling is that they will not compromise before
March 1,” Maryland Representative  Chris Van Hollen , the top
Budget Committee Democrat, said in an interview on Bloomberg
Television’s “Political Capital With  Al Hunt ” airing this
weekend.  ‘Enough Pain’  “Then the question is, once the sequester begins to kick
in, whether there will be enough pain for them to agree they
have to compromise,” Van Hollen said.  Congress agreed to the automatic spending cuts, to be
spread over nine years, as part of a deal to increase the U.S.
debt limit in 2011. The reductions would be split almost evenly
between defense and non-defense spending.  Pentagon contracts plunged 67 percent last month, according
to data compiled by Bloomberg. That followed a drop in fourth-
quarter defense spending that contributed to the first reported
decline in the nation’s economy since 2009.  The Senate’s majority Democrats have proposed replacing
this year’s reduction with a smaller defense spending cut, a
halt in direct payments to farmers, and a tax increase that
would impose a minimum 30 percent rate on top earners.  Republicans, who control the House and can block Democratic
proposals in the Senate, voted last year to replace the defense
cuts with reductions in non-defense programs.  ‘Shock Effect’  When the spending cut begins, “which I think it will, I
think it is going to have a shock effect on so many different
programs and agencies and operations of the government,” House
Appropriations Chairman  Hal Rogers  said in an interview for C-
SPAN’s Newsmakers program airing Feb. 17. “Hopefully people can
come to their senses and reach a realistic goal.”  “The cuts to the military of course are the most severe,”
said Rogers of Kentucky. “That will, I think, require the
layoffs of hundreds of thousands of civilian employees, not to
mention military operations and maintenance.”  Leaving the automatic cuts in place would shave U.S.
economic growth this year by 0.6 percent and cost 750,000 jobs
by the fourth quarter, according to the Congressional Budget
Office.  Public outrage at the effects of the cuts will push
Congress to strike a deal, said Idaho Republican  Mike Simpson ,
chairman of the House Appropriations Committee’s interior
subcommittee.  ‘So Ugly’  “Sequestration was supposed to be so ugly that we would
never go there,” Simpson said in an interview. After “about a
month or two,” he said, doing nothing about the cuts will be
“difficult to justify.”  Simpson said lawmakers have “eliminated 50 some odd
programs” in a bill that would finance the Interior Department.  “If they tell me to take $2 billion or $3 billion out of
the Interior budget,” Congress may have to say “we are not
going to have a Forest Service anymore,” Simpson said. “At
some point you could squeeze all of these agencies so far, you
might as not well have them.”  For now, lawmakers in each party describe the other as
intransigent as they try to assign political blame before the
cuts begin.  House Democratic Leader  Nancy Pelosi  of California
protested the one-week recess while speaking to reporters
yesterday in Washington.  “Sequestration equals job loss,” Pelosi said. “We should
be working” to avert the cuts, she said.  One Republican  Republicans say Senate Democrats’ tax proposals,
particularly the minimum tax on top earners, have previously
drawn widespread Republican opposition. In April 2012, only one
Republican, Maine’s  Susan Collins , voted to advance the proposal
when Republicans blocked it in the Senate.  The so-called Buffett Rule would impose the minimum tax
rate on top earners, phased up to a 30 percent rate on those
earning more than $2 million a year. The provision would raise
$54 billion over 10 years by preventing those taxpayers from
benefiting from lower rates on capital gains and dividends that
reduce their effective tax rates.  Under the proposal, those taxpayers would still be able to
deduct their charitable contributions. The Senate debated the
idea in April 2012, and its 51-45 vote, almost entirely along
party lines, was short of the 60 votes needed to advance the
measure.  Republicans deride the Buffett Rule as a politically
motivated gimmick. Democrats acknowledge the potential advantage
of linking Republicans and billionaires.  Buffett Rule  At one point last year, when Democrats were being accused
of choosing political proposals to raise revenue, Senator
 Charles Schumer  of New York said that if party members wanted to
be political, they would have used the Buffett Rule.  Julian Zelizer , a professor of history and public affairs
at Princeton University in New Jersey, said both parties “can
let the gridlock take the blame” for allowing the spending cuts
to begin, “and then they can step in and fix some of it.”  “And then each party can find some things where they can
look like heroes,” Zelizer said.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Kathleen Hunter in Washington at 
 khunter9@bloomberg.net ;
James Rowley in Washington at 
 jarowley@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jodi Schneider at 
 jschneider50@bloomberg.net  