-- Cypriots to Vote Seeking Leader Who Can Solve Economy Crisis
-- B y   P a u l   T u g w e l l   a n d   G e o r g i o s   G e o r g i o u
-- 2013-02-17T12:04:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/cypriots-to-vote-seeking-president-who-can-solve-economic-crisis.html
Cypriots are voting for a new
president today in a ballot where, for the first time since the
Turkish invasion in 1974, the economy is the main issue rather
than reunification of the divided island.  The country, which became the fifth euro-area member to
request international financial aid in June 2012, has been shut
out of debt markets for nearly two years with lenders including
 Bank of Cyprus Plc  and Cyprus Popular Bank Plc losing 4.5
billion euros ($6 billion) in Greece’s debt restructuring last
year.  “The economy is by far more important than the Cyprus
problem,” said Yiannis Trimithiotis, 31, an officer for a
youth-related non-governmental organization. “I am interested
to have a job, pay my rent and keep my life going. We have to
rescue our economy.”  Cyprus has been negotiating for eight months with the so-
called troika of the European Commission, European Central Bank
and International Monetary Fund over terms of a bailout, which
could equal the size of its 18 billion euro-economy. Completing
an agreement on the rescue and preventing financial collapse
will fall to the winner of today’s election.  With the exception of Greece, the Cypriot bailout is set to
be the highest proportional to gross domestic product. As much
as 10 billion euros may be required to rescue the banks and 7.5
billion euros will be needed by the government, with the total
about the same as the nation’s GDP in 2011. As with other
bailout recipients, Cyprus will have to adhere to strict
austerity measures, which could exacerbate economic weakness.  Economic Management  More than 7O percent of Cypriots said their main criteria
for choosing a president will be the ability to manage the
economy, a Jan. 27 poll published in Kathimerini Cyprus
newspaper showed.  There are 11 candidates in today’s election and pre-ballot
polls signaled that  Nicos Anastasiades , 66, leader of the main
opposition Disy Party,  Stavros Malas , a 45-year-old former
health minister backed by outgoing President  Demetris Christofias ’s communist Akel party and independent  George Lillikas , 52, are frontrunners.  Polls showed Anastasiades coming first in today’s vote,
without winning the necessary support to be elected president
outright. If no candidate gets more than 50 percent of the poll
today, the two with the most votes will contend a second round
on Feb. 24. Anastasiades is also seen winning that race,
regardless of his opponent.  ‘Tackle Crisis’  “The result of the election will determine whether we will
be able to tackle the economic crisis, whether we can move
beyond an impasse, whether we can put our economy on a path to
growth,” Anastasiades said at his final election rally Feb. 13.
A new government “must negotiate with assertiveness and
persuasiveness and send a message to Europe that the necessary
reforms will be made to get our economy back to growth,” he
said.  German Chancellor  Angela Merkel  endorsed Anastasiades on
Jan. 11, a move that may help him clinch a bailout amid growing
dissatisfaction among euro-area countries over funding rescue
programs. Merkel and Anastasiades are both members of the
European People’s Party.  ‘Critical Elections’  “Today is when the Cypriot people will decide, in the most
critical elections, if a national salvation government with a
strong mandate can immediately start to work on confronting the
economy’s problems,” Anastasiades said after voting in his home
city of Limassol in comments broadcast live on state-run RIK TV.
Cyprus has never known such an economic crisis and the survival
of the country is at stake, he said.  “Today’s election will perhaps be recorded as the most
important chapter in the history of the Cypriot people,” Malas
said after he cast his vote in the capital Nicosia.  Malas said he expressed concern about money laundering
allegations against Cyprus and efforts to find a private firm to
investigate implementation of anti-laundering laws in a phone
conversation with European parliament president  Martin Schulz 
yesterday.  “Cyprus is facing critical problems and this is the most
important election of the last decades,” Lillikas said after
voting in Nicosia. Cypriots “will decide if we return to the
practices of the past that led us into this economic crisis,”
or choose “to take Cyprus forward.”  All three of the main candidates agree on the need for
Cyprus to sign an international aid deal, saying there is no
alternative, and also agreeing that there is room for re-
negotiation within already determined parameters.  Natural Gas  The independent candidate Lillikas pledged to pre-sell part
of Cyprus’s natural gas deposits to repay rescue loans. “We
will immediately use our natural gas to free Cyprus from the
memorandum within 2013,” he said in a Feb. 14 speech. “We will
not accept assigning our state sovereignty to the troika.”  Noble Energy Inc . said in 2011 it found reserves of as much
as 8 trillion feet of natural gas. Since then, Cyprus has also
given gas exploration licenses to Total SA and a venture of Eni
Spa and Korea Gas Corp.  Anastasiades and Malas both say some of the revenue from
gas sales can be used to cut the country’s debt, while the
remainder should be used for growth initiatives and investing
for future generations.  One issue dividing candidates is the demand that Cyprus
consider a privatization program for state-owned companies to
restore debt sustainability.  Security Concern  While politically against such a move, Anastasiades said
the current government agreed to such sales if required. Malas
ruled out selling the country’s ports, the Electricity Authority
of Cyprus and the Cyprus Telecommunications Authority in a
Bloomberg interview on Feb. 13 citing ‘security’ concerns.  More than 500,000 voters, including 604 eligible Turkish-
Cypriots, can cast their ballot today at 1,139 voting centers
from 7 a.m. local time until 6 p.m, when the first exit polls
are expected. An initial estimate of the final result will be
published at about 8:30 p.m. with the final outcome due at 9
p.m..  For the first time in presidential elections, Cypriots
resident abroad, who account for 3 percent of the total
electorate, are able to cast their ballot at 40 voting centers
in countries including Greece, the U.S. and the U.K., RIK
reported today.  By midday local time, when voting centers closed for a
break of one hour, 38.9 percent of the registered electorate had
voted compared with 48 percent at the same time in the 2008
presidential elections, according to a  statement  on the Cyprus
government’s press website.  Cyprus has been divided since 1974 when Turkey invaded the
northern third of the island following a coup by supporters of
the country’s union with Greece. Only Turkey recognizes the
Turkish-Cypriot administration established in the north of the
island.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Paul Tugwell in Athens at 
 ptugwell1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jerrold Colten at 
 jcolten@bloomberg.net  