-- Express Scripts Sues E&Y Alleging Trade Secret Theft
-- B y   A n d r e w   H a r r i s
-- 2013-02-16T02:26:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/express-scripts-sues-e-y-alleging-trade-secret-theft.html
Express Scripts  Inc. sued the
accounting firm Ernst & Young LLP and one of its partners for
the alleged theft of trade secrets and misappropriation of the
pharmacy benefit manager’s confidential and proprietary data.  The Express Scripts Holding Co. unit said in a complaint
filed yesterday in state court in Clayton, Missouri, that it
learned last year that accounting firm partner Don Gravlin had
been “sneaking” into its St. Louis headquarters and e-mailing
documents to a private Google account via the account of an
Ernst & Young consultant.  “E&Y and Gravlin were possessed with an evil motive,” the
benefits manager said in its complaint. The company is seeking
punitive damages to deter future similar conduct by Ernst &
Young and other accounting firms.  The accountants allegedly took the equivalent of more than
20,000 pages of data, including pricing information, business
strategy, projections and “performance metrics” documents, to
aid development of Ernst & Young’s own health-care business
segment, which includes Express Scripts and  Medco Health
Solutions Inc. , which it acquired last year, as well as some of
their competitors.  “When we were notified about this matter several months
ago, we immediately conducted an investigation and concluded
there was a violation of EY policies and the company’s
policies,” Amy Call Well, an Ernst & Young spokeswoman, said in
an e-mailed statement.  “The individual at the center of these allegations is no
longer with the firm,” she said.  Gravlin, whom the complaint identifies as living in the St.
Louis suburb of Caseyville, Illinois, didn’t immediately respond
to a voice-mail message seeking comment on the lawsuit.  Trade-Secret Law  Claiming the firm and Gravlin violated Missouri computer-
tampering and trade-secret protection laws, Express Scripts
seeks unspecified money damages plus a court order barring Ernst
& Young from the use or disclosure of any of the information it
allegedly misappropriated.  Call Well said the firm, a New York-based unit of London-
based Ernst & Young International, is unaware of any instance in
which the information was used for any purpose by the accounting
firm or its personnel.  “We will vigorously contest the claims in the complaint,”
she said.  The case is Express Scripts Inc. v. Ernst & Young LLP,
13SL-CC00537, St. Louis County, Missouri, Circuit Court,
Division 20 (Clayton).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Andrew Harris in the Chicago federal courthouse at  aharris16@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  