-- G-20 ‘Determined’ to Fight Profit-Shifting, Secure Revenue Base
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   G o n z a l o   V i n a
-- 2013-02-16T16:43:09Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/g-20-determined-to-fight-profit-shifting-secure-revenue-base.html
Finance chiefs from the Group of 20
pledged to work together to curb multinational companies’ leeway
to shift profits to low-tax countries, endorsing an initiative
spearheaded by Europe’s biggest economies.  Britain, Germany and France today called on other G-20
nations to restrict tax avoidance by international corporations
that declare profits in territories where they can pay the
lowest amounts.  “We are determined to develop measures to address base
erosion and profit shifting, take necessary collective actions
and look forward to the comprehensive action plan” the
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development will
present in July, the G-20 said in a statement published after a
two-day meeting in Moscow.  Western nations, seeking to shrink budget deficits, are
looking for ways to raise more money from companies to placate
voters squeezed by falling living standards and cuts to public
spending. The Paris-based OECD is working on plans which, if
approved by the U.K., Germany and France, will be put for
adoption to the G-20 in July.  “We do want businesses to pay the taxes that we set them
in our countries,” Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
said in Moscow. His German counterpart,  Wolfgang Schaeuble , said
that “multinationals, like local businesses,” must “pay their
fair share of tax.”  Following the OECD’s analysis, Britain will lead an
international committee looking to rewrite transfer-pricing
rules that allow companies to shift profits to lower-tax
jurisdictions. Germany will take the lead on work looking at
erosion of the tax base, while France and the U.S. will examine
ways to determine tax jurisdiction, particularly for companies
involved in e-commerce.  Amazon, Starbucks  Amazon.com Inc. was among three U.S. companies singled out
by U.K. lawmakers last year for not paying enough tax in
Britain. Members of Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee
criticized the online retailer, Starbucks Inc. and Google Inc.
for using complex accounting methods to reduce their tax
liabilities in the U.K.  Testimony by the retailers at a Nov. 13 hearing at times
drew laughter from lawmakers who queried how Amazon made 20
million euros ($27 million) profit on sales of 9.1 billion euros
across Europe and questioned why Starbucks remained in Britain
as it had recorded losses for most of the 15 years it had
operated in the country. Google paid 6 million pounds ($9.3
million) in company tax in Britain last year.  ‘All Jurisdictions’  The G-20 said it’s committed to “extending the practice of
automatic exchange of information, as appropriate,” and
encouraged “all jurisdictions” to sign a convention on mutual
administrative assistance.  The U.K. government said this week it would bar companies
with a history of breaking tax rules from winning government
contracts.  Under proposals published two days ago, companies bidding
for contracts starting on April 1 will have to make a
declaration about their tax compliance, and departments will for
the first time have the power to refuse contracts on the grounds
a company has broken anti-avoidance rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Moscow at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Gonzalo Vina in Moscow at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  