-- G-20 Disavow Targeting Exchange Rates in Strengthened Stance
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a ,   H e n r y   M e y e r   a n d   T o r u   F u j i o k a
-- 2013-02-16T08:58:04Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/g-20-to-disavow-targeting-exchange-rates-in-strengthened-stance.html
Group of 20 finance chiefs shifted
toward a tougher stance on exchange rates as they sought to tame
speculation of a global currency war without singling out Japan
for criticism.  After all-night negotiations in Moscow, the club of the
biggest developed and emerging economies agreed not to “target
our exchange rates for competitive purposes,” according to an
official who saw a draft of a statement to be released today and
asked not to be identified because the document isn’t public
yet. That marks a strengthening of language from previous drafts
and runs closer to what the Group of Seven rich nations said
earlier this week.  “It was quite clear last night that everyone around the
table wants to avoid any sort of currency disputes,” Canadian
Finance Minister  Jim Flaherty  told reporters today. U.K.
Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne  said countries must
avoid their past mistake of using currencies “as a tool of
economic warfare.”  Policy makers are attempting to soothe concern that
governments are increasingly trying to weaken exchange rates to
spur growth through exports. The risk is a 1930s-style spiral of
devaluations and protectionism if other countries retaliate to
safeguard their own economies.  Yen Decline  Japan has fallen under the greatest suspicion after the yen
dropped 7 percent this year against the dollar amid calls from
Prime Minister  Shinzo Abe  for looser monetary policy to end
deflation. Japanese officials in Moscow denied driving down the
yen and said the world would benefit from a healthier Japan.  “Japan’s monetary policy is focused on ending deflation
and stabilizing the domestic economy by achieving sustainable
growth under price stability,”  Bank of Japan  Governor  Masaaki Shirakawa  said yesterday. Finance Minister  Taro Aso  said a
stronger Japan would “have a positive impact on the global
economy.”  The yen fell for the first time in four days yesterday as
officials said the G-20 didn’t plan to repeat the G-7’s Feb. 12
vow “that we will not target exchange rates.” That line was
undermined by G-7 officials later bickering over whether it
indicated irritation with Japan.  The G-20 statement will include the comment and echo the
view members already agreed on in November that countries will
move “more rapidly” toward market-determined exchange rates
and “refrain from competitive devaluation,” the official
familiar with the draft said. It will repeat that “disorderly
movements in exchange rates” and “excess volatility in
financial flows” can threaten economic and financial stability.  Weak Economy  The G-20 will also say that while the risks to the world
economy have receded, it remains too weak and unemployment is
too high in many countries, the official said. That requires
more work to create a stronger monetary and economic union of
euro-area countries, resolve uncertainties surrounding the
budgets of the U.S. and Japan and boost domestic demand in
economies with large trade surpluses.  The G-20’s advanced nations bowed to U.S. pressure by not
setting new fiscal targets to replace those agreed in 2010 and
which many of them are on course to miss. They will pledge
instead to develop “credible medium-term fiscal strategies.”  ‘Disorderly Movements’  Central bankers outside Japan also defended their embrace
of stimulus.  Federal Reserve Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  said yesterday in
Moscow that the U.S. has deployed “domestic policy tools to
advance domestic objectives,” adding that bolstering the U.S.
economy will support world growth.  Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  will say in a
speech in the U.K. today that although U.K. central bankers
don’t “target the exchange rate,” there may be further
economic benefits from the pound’s six-year decline and any
resulting inflation can be tolerated.  Not all G-20 policy makers want a lower exchange rate.
European Central Bank council member  Jens Weidmann  said in a
Feb. 13 interview published yesterday that “the exchange rate
of the euro is broadly in line with fundamentals” and “you
cannot really say that the euro is seriously overvalued.”  Mixed Messages  ECB President  Mario Draghi  took a less categorical
approach, saying the euro plays an important role in assessing
the economic outlook.  The week’s mixed messages and speculation of a devaluation
race drew criticism from the G-20’s finance ministers and
central bankers gathering in Moscow.  “Chatter” about exchange rates is “self-defeating,”
Draghi said. Flaherty said talk of a currency war is
“contributing to the uncertainty that is holding back stronger
growth.”  Australian Treasurer  Wayne Swan  framed the debate as one
about the appropriate use of monetary policy, saying as long as
measures are “directed toward getting stronger growth in the
domestic economy, that’s a good thing for the global economy.”  Still, Brazilian and Chinese officials reiterated a call
for developed countries to monitor the effects of stimulus on
emerging markets. They’re concerned that a flood of easy money
into such economies will push up currencies and threaten
creating asset bubbles.  Brazilian Finance Minister Guido Mantega, who popularized
the phrase “currency war” in 2010, yesterday said his
government wouldn’t allow the real to over-appreciate after
reaching a nine-month high.  Rich nations should “pay attention to the effects their
monetary policies have on external markets,” Vice Chinese
finance Minister Zhu Guangyao told the state-run Xinhua news
agency from Moscow.  In a nod to that concern, the G-20 will say monetary policy
should be directed toward domestic price stability and officials
will monitor and minimize “negative spillovers” abroad,
according to the draft statement.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Moscow at 
 gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Henry Meyer in Moscow at 
 hmeyer4@bloomberg.net ;
Toru Fujioka in Moscow at 
 tfujioka1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Balazs Penz at 
 bpenz@bloomberg.net  