-- India’s Room for Monetary Easing Is Limited, RBI’s Subbarao Says
-- B y   O l g a   T a n a s   a n d   K a r t i k   G o y a l
-- 2013-02-17T18:30:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/india-s-room-for-monetary-easing-is-limited-rbi-s-subbarao-says.html
India’s central bank Governor
Duvvuri Subbarao signaled inflation risks will limit the extent
he can reduce interest rates to bolster an economy expanding at
the weakest pace in a decade.  “There is room for monetary easing, but that room is
limited and we have to make a careful judgment on how to use
that limited room,” he said at a briefing in Moscow,
reiterating guidance he gave in January. Subbarao, who spoke on
Feb. 16, was attending Group of 20 meetings in the Russian
capital.  India last month became the first major Asian nation to cut
 interest rates  this year after benchmark inflation eased, as the
central bank moved to back government efforts to boost the
economy. The country’s finance minister, who unveils the annual
budget on Feb. 28, has vowed spending curbs to help reduce the
chance of a resurgence in price pressures.  The improvement in economic growth “is going to be gradual,
the improvement will depend on the number of factors, but I
believe that largely perhaps, the worst is behind us,” Subbarao
said. He estimated economic expansion of 5.5 percent for the 12
months through March 2013, above the Central Statistics Office
projection of 5 percent.  The governor said he would assess the quality of the
government’s fiscal adjustment. The Reserve Bank in a Jan. 28
report indicated a push to pare the deficit that increasingly
relies on sales of shares in state-owned companies and one-off
auctions of telecom permits may be unsustainable.  The central bank lowered the repurchase rate to 7.75
percent from 8 percent on Jan. 29. At the same time, Subbarao
said that while there’s space to ease monetary policy, “it’s
going to be quite limited.”  Among the constraints is a deficit in the  current account ,
the broadest measure of trade, which swelled to a record $22.31
billion in the quarter ended Sept. 30. This fiscal year’s gap
will be higher than last year, Subbarao said at the Feb. 16
briefing, adding that the depreciation of the rupee isn’t
helping exports in the short term.  Deficit Widened  The shortfall has weighed on the rupee, which has fallen
more than 8.5 percent against the dollar in the past year. The
currency declined 0.5 percent to 54.2250 per dollar in Mumbai on
Feb. 15, completing its biggest weekly loss since November, as
provisional data showed the trade deficit widened in January to
a near record.  Prime Minister  Manmohan Singh  has changed policies since
mid-September, seeking to revive investment after corruption
allegations against officials and parliamentary gridlock hurt
his development agenda.  The steps included opening retail and aviation to more
foreign participation, easing caps on capital inflows and
setting up a panel to speed up infrastructure projects. The
government also partially freed diesel prices from state control
last month to limit fuel subsidies.  Finance Minister  Palaniappan Chidambaram  has vowed to
contain the fiscal deficit at 5.3 percent of gross domestic
product in 2012-2013 and pare it to 4.8 percent the following
year, seeking to lower the odds of a credit-rating downgrade.  Electricity Prices  Recent reports showed  wholesale prices  rose 6.62 percent in
January from a year earlier, the slowest in 38 months. That pace
remains above the central bank’s 5 percent comfort zone.  A separate measure of inflation based on  consumer prices 
reached 10.79 percent in January, one of the highest levels in
the Group of 20 major economies.  Increases in coal and electricity prices may add to
inflation, Subbarao said at the Moscow briefing.  The economy will expand 5 percent in fiscal year through
March 2013, below last year’s 6.2 percent and the least since 4
percent in 2002-2003, the Central Statistical Office estimated
Feb. 7.  The International Monetary Fund forecasts 6 percent Indian
GDP growth in the 12 months beginning April 2013, compared with
an annual average of about 8 percent in the past decade.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 Kartik Goyal  in New Delhi at 
 kgoyal@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Shamim Adam in Singapore at 
 sadam2@bloomberg.net  