-- India to Dispatch Investigators to Probe AgustaWestland Deal
-- B y   H o w a r d   M u s t o e   a n d   R o b e r t   W a l l
-- 2013-02-16T15:56:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/india-to-dispatch-investigators-to-probe-agustawestland-deal-1-.html
AgustaWestland , the world’s second-
largest helicopter maker, said it will answer bribery
allegations on a $753 million helicopter deal as India’s defense
ministry sends a delegation of investigators to Italy.  India will dispatch the team to Rome as early as Monday to
“gather as much evidence as possible relating to the
allegations of corruption in the acquisition of 12 AW101 VVIP
helicopters for the Indian Air Force,” the New Delhi-based
ministry said today in a statement.  India yesterday issued a so-called show cause notice to the
company giving it seven days to defend itself against bribery
allegations involving the deal signed in 2010. “AgustaWestland
is preparing its answers to timely meet the Indian Ministry of
Defense’s request,” the  Finmeccanica SpA  helicopter unit said
in a statement.  The Indian government said it will consider canceling the
deal and forcing the company to return money it had already been
paid. The controversy this week led to the arrest in Italy of
 Giuseppe Orsi , Finmeccanica chairman and chief executive, on
fraud and tax evasion charges he denies. Orsi has since been
stripped of his CEO role and resigned the chairman title.  Orsi headed AgustaWestland when the deal was signed. The
current chief of the Anglo-Italian unit,  Bruno Spagnolini , has
been placed under house arrest.  ‘Full Compliance’  “AgustaWestland is confident that the full compliance with
the relevant laws as well as the good conduct of its past and
present Senior Executives and Managers will be demonstrated as
soon as practicable,” the company said in a statement. It
stressed the deal was not yet canceled.  AgustaWestland, which builds India’s AW101s at its Yeovil
facility in England, has already delivered three of the
helicopters to be used for presidential transport. The company
was selected ahead of  United Technologies Corp .’s Sikorsky unit.
 Russian Helicopters , which also entered the competition, was
eliminated early in part because it failed to submit a required
integrity report.  India may also bar AgustaWestland from further government
contracts. The company is competing against Marignane, France-
based Eurocopter, the world’s largest helicopter maker, and
Russia’s Kamov in a deal for 197 smaller rotorcraft. The award
of that contract may now be put on hold.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Howard Mustoe in London at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net ;
Robert Wall in London at 
 rwall6@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Howard Mustoe at 
 hmustoe@bloomberg.net  