-- NBA Players Union Votes to Fire Executive Director Billy Hunter
-- B y   E b e n   N o v y - W i l l i a m s   a n d   S c o t t   S o s h n i c k
-- 2013-02-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/nba-players-union-votes-to-fire-executive-director-hunter-1-.html
Billy Hunter  was fired as the
National Basketball Association players union’s executive
director, a move he called “preordained” following a probe
that concluded he put his own interests ahead of the group.  Player representatives from 24 of the 30 NBA teams in
Houston for All-Star weekend voted unanimously yesterday to oust
the 70-year-old former federal prosecutor, union President  Derek Fisher  said at a news conference.  “No threats, no lies, no distractions will stop us from
serving our membership,” Fisher said. “We do not doubt that
this process will continue in an ugly way.”  Hunter, whose firing ends a 16-year tenure, said he and his
legal team would review the actions and statements made in his
absence. He was denied a chance to address the union before the
vote.  “I look forward to gathering the evidence showing how
certain individuals made sure the outcome was preordained,”
Hunter said in an online statement. “The current interim regime
in control of the NBPA has set a terrible precedent for the
union. It violates every tenet of fairness upon which the union
was founded.”  Hunter, questioning the legality of the voting process,
said, “I do not consider today’s vote the end, only a different
beginning.”  The firing ends almost yearlong speculation about Hunter’s
future with the association, punctuated last month by the
results of an audit of the union conducted by New York-based law
firm  Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton  & Garrison. The review concluded
that while Hunter did nothing illegal, he failed to manage
conflicts of interest, lacked proper corporate governance and
did not disclose his $3 million-a-year contract wasn’t properly
ratified.  Interim Director  Players Association staff attorney  Ron Klempner , who was
announced on Feb. 1 as interim executive director until a
permanent successor is chosen, will remain in that role.  Yesterday’s firing leaves unclear how much Hunter is owed.
It isn’t known if the players will agree to pay Hunter what is
left on his contract.  Hunter issued an online rebuttal two days ago to the audit,
saying his contract was valid and that he has always put players
first.  Hunter helped negotiate collective bargaining agreements
that pushed the average NBA player’s salary to more than $5
million, the highest in U.S. team sports. The union, in debt
when Hunter took over, now has $80 million in net assets,
according to his rebuttal.  Hunter said in his rebuttal that his contract is valid and
he is owed more than $10 million if terminated. The audit report
said the union had “no obligation” to accept the document as
enforceable.  No Vote  Player representatives never voted to ratify Hunter’s
contract, a necessary step under union bylaws, the report said.
Hunter said in his rebuttal that such a vote is necessary for
new contracts, not extensions.  Arn Tellem , one of the NBA’s most prominent agents, and
players such as  Deron Williams  of the Brooklyn Nets and  Paul Pierce  of the Boston Celtics, called for Hunter’s firing
following the report. Tellem, whose clients include former Most
Valuable Player  Derrick Rose  of the Chicago Bulls, warned
players of Hunter’s “treachery” in an e-mail to clients.  At yesterday’s meeting in Houston,  LeBron James  of the
Miami Heat and  Jerry Stackhouse  of the Brooklyn Nets were the
most vocal, according to two people in the room who asked for
anonymity because they weren’t authorized to speak publicly.
James was calling for change, they said.  James left the meeting an hour before it ended without
talking to the media. He had a charity appearance scheduled.  Commissioner David Stern declined to comment on Hunter’s
firing. “We’ve seen Derek Fisher’s statements, and we await
notification from the union as to who we should be dealing
with,” he said.  Family Members  The union since 2001 has paid $4.8 million to Hunter’s
family members and their professional firms, Bloomberg News
reported in April citing public records, a pattern of nepotism
that the audit called “unacceptable.” Last month, Hunter
purged family members from the association.  The audit also said Hunter made questionable choices when
charging travel expenses to the union, and spent more than
$100,000 in union funds in the past 10 years on luxury gifts for
members of the executive committee. Those gifts included a
$22,000 Patek Philippe watch given to Fisher in June 2010.  Hunter also spent at least $300,000 pursuing speculative
business ventures as possible investments for the organization,
including a mixed martial arts fighting league in Japan and a
failing bank venture that had Hunter’s son as a director, the
report said.  Hunter said in his rebuttal that the gift-giving was in
keeping with a union tradition, and that appropriate due
diligence was pursued on all business ventures.  Ex-NFL Player  A former captain of the Syracuse University football team,
Hunter played two seasons in the National Football League with
the Washington Redskins and Miami Dolphins. He served as a
federal prosecutor in 1977-1984 before managing his own firm.  The union’s business practices are being probed by the U.S.
Attorney’s office in Manhattan, the U.S. Department of Labor and
the New York State Attorney General.  The union today also appointed a new executive committee:
 Matt Bonner  of the San Antonio Spurs as vice president;  James Jones  of the Miami Heat as secretary and treasurer, and
Stackhouse as first vice president. Also appointed as vice
presidents were  Roger Mason Jr.  of the New Orleans Hornets;
 Chris Paul  and  Willie Green  of the Los Angeles Clippers;  Andre Iguodala  of the Denver Nuggets, and  Stephen Curry  of the Golden
State Warriors.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Eben Novy-Williams in Houston at 
 enovywilliam@bloomberg.net ;
Scott Soshnick in Houston at 
 ssoshnick@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  