-- North Korea Celebrates Kim’s Birthday After Nuclear Test
-- B y   S a n g w o n   Y o o n   a n d   E u n k y u n g   S e o
-- 2013-02-16T06:19:05Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/north-korea-celebrates-kim-s-birthday-after-nuclear-test.html
North Korea commemorated the
anniversary of late leader  Kim Jong Il ’s birth today, four days
after testing a nuclear weapon in defiance of the international
community.  Kim’s successor and youngest son  Kim Jong Un  visited his
father’s grave at the Kumsusan Palace of the Sun, according to
the official Korean Central News Agency. Other state-run media
released commentaries and dispatches on nationwide ceremonies in
honor of the elder Kim, who died in December 2011.  “Our soldiers and people celebrated the birth of our great
leader after we showed our strength and braveness with the
successful nuclear test,” the KCNA said in a statement.  The Feb. 12 nuclear test, the third in recent years, came
two months after North Korea launched a long-range rocket that
prompted the United Nations to tighten sanctions against
impoverished country. Since taking power 14 months ago, Kim Jong
Un has sought to secure his legitimacy as third-generation
leader by following his father’s military-first policy.  “In a hereditary regime like North Korea, it’s crucial to
showcase the seamless transition of power, that Kim Jong Un is
just as capable as his father,” said Jeung Young Tae, research
fellow at the Korea Institute for National Unification in Seoul.
“Kim Jong Un needed to create a battle myth for himself, so he
conducted the rocket and nuclear tests as the ‘battles’ he won
against world superpowers.”  Southern Activists  While North Korea claims Kim Jong Il would have turned 71
today, his age has been a matter of dispute. Contrary to Soviet
records which indicate he was born in 1941, the regime says he
was born a year later at a guerrilla camp where his father  Kim Il Sung  was leading a rebellion against Japanese colonial rule.  North Korea’s State Stamp Bureau issued new postage bearing
photos of the elder Kim in his childhood and university days,
according to a Feb. 7 KCNA report. A 10-day film festival opened
the same day showcasing a documentary about the leader, and a
flower named after Kim is on display at an event in the capital
Pyongyang, according to state media.  North Korea in December tested a rocket that South Korean
Defense Minister  Kim Kwan Jin  said had a range of about 10,000
kilometers (6,200 miles), enough to reach California and beyond.  While the nation claims to have diversified its nuclear
capability with the third detonation, South Korea doubts the
regime has perfected the miniaturization technology necessary to
develop a warhead, Defense Ministry spokesman Kim Min Seok said
this week.  South Korean activists today released leaflets near the
border between the countries, criticizing North Korea and its
leader for the nuclear test, Yonhap News reported, citing
activist group Fighters for Free North Korea.  The protesters sent 200,000 leaflets in balloons together
with 1,000 one-dollar bills and 500 pamphlets describing
advanced standards of living in South Korea.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Sangwon Yoon in Seoul at 
 syoon32@bloomberg.net 
Eunkyung Seo in Seoul at 
 eseo3@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net ;
John Brinsley at 
 jbrinsley@bloomberg.net  