-- Hollywood Snubs Best Film as ‘Zero Dark Thirty’ Odds Fade
-- B y   M i c h a e l   W h i t e
-- 2013-02-17T06:32:24Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/hollywood-snubs-best-film-as-zero-dark-thirty-odds-fade.html
“Zero Dark Thirty,” the best-
reviewed film of 2012, has become an Oscar longshot because of a
political backlash in Hollywood over its depiction of torture in
the hunt for  Osama Bin Laden .  Since early January,  Kathryn Bigelow ’s critically praised
movie has sunk to fifth from third among likely best-picture
winners at GoldDerby.com, which ranks award prospects. Actors  Ed Asner  and David Clennon urged academy voters to snub the  Sony
Corp.  film. Author  Naomi Wolf  called Bigelow “torture’s
handmaiden” and compared her to Nazi propagandist  Leni Riefenstahl .  The outcry from Washington and influential industry voices
has made “Zero Dark Thirty” a tough vote for left-leaning
Hollywood. It’s led to a split between academy members disturbed
by torture scenes that imply waterboarding and other harsh
methods worked, and others who defend the filmmakers’ right to
free speech and artistic freedom.  “The general political persuasion in Hollywood has more to
do with it than any particular actors,” said former Republican
U.S Senator  Fred Thompson , who’s appeared in dozens of films and
TV shows including “Law & Order.” “If they perceive that this
movie somehow adopts the Bush narrative, that could affect the
movie.”  Over eight days in December, “Zero Dark Thirty” was
dubbed best picture by four groups, including the New York Film
Critics Association, the National Board of Review and the Boston
Film Critics Association. It was the top Oscar contender on the
Metacritic site, which ranks films based on reviews.  Senate Questions  Then the U.K.’s Guardian published an article accusing
Bigelow, the only woman to win an Oscar for directing, of
justifying torture. On Dec. 19, U.S. Senator  Dianne Feinstein ,
joined by  John McCain  and  Carl Levin , asked Sony Pictures to
consider “correcting” the suggestion torture helped the CIA
find bin Laden because it was inaccurate.  The senators also asked the CIA about what officials told
the filmmakers about interrogation tactics used during the
administration of President  George W. Bush . Feinstein and Levin
declined to comment. McCain didn’t respond to requests.  Hollywood activists piled on. Asner, a former president of
the Screen Actors Guild, told the New York Times he wanted to
“condemn” the movie and said he and  Martin Sheen  planned to
sign a letter by Clennon, who appeared in the TV series
“thirtysomething,” urging voters to choose another movie.  Sheen later backed away, saying he opposed torture but
didn’t want to attack Bigelow’s right to make the film her way.
He and Asner didn’t respond to requests for comment.  “Its hopes for best picture seem to be, well, zero,” said
 Tom O’Neil , founder and editor of the GoldDerby.com. “The movie
was unfairly blamed for showing us something we didn’t want to
see, which was our nation misbehaving.”  Guild Setbacks  Nominated for best picture, “Zero Dark Thirty” lost to
“Argo,”  Ben Affleck ’s film about the rescue of U.S. embassy
personnel from Iran three decades ago, at the Producers Guild,
the Directors Guild and the Golden Globes. The film was winless
at the British Academy of Film & Television Arts.  “People disengaged from ‘Zero Dark Thirty’ and embraced
‘Argo,’ said Sasha Stone, editor of Awards Daily, another
website that tracks the Oscar race. ‘‘‘Argo’ doesn’t really ask
anything of you, it just delivers entertainment.’’  Sony Pictures, based in Culver City, California, has put
its marketing muscle behind the film with TV, radio and print
ads touting five Oscar nominations, including best original
screenplay for Mark Boal, best actress for  Jessica Chastain ,
best editing and best sound editing. The movie was produced by
Annapurna Pictures, run by  Megan Ellison , daughter of the Oracle
Corp. co-founder. The awards will be telecast from Los Angeles
on Feb. 24 by  Walt Disney Co. ’s ABC.  Free Speech  ‘‘We are doing everything we can to support what we believe
is an extraordinary and important movie that will stand the test
of time,’’  Steve Elzer , a Sony spokesman, said in an interview.  Studio Co-Chairman  Amy Pascal  defended the film in a
 statement , saying Bigelow would have been ‘‘irresponsible and
inaccurate’’ to leave out torture scenes. A spokesman for
Bigelow, who penned her own  response  in the L.A. Times, didn’t
respond to a request for comment.  The film has garnered support beyond studio officials.  Former CIA director  Leon Panetta  has weighed in, saying in
television interviews has said that harsh interrogation was
useful. In a letter to the Senate, ‘‘Lincoln’’ screenwriter  Tony Kushner , nominated for best adapted screenplay, Harvard Law
professor  Alan Dershowitz  and 26 others compared the call for
changes in the film to the McCarthy era. Kushner’s film,
directed by  Steven Spielberg , is also a best-picture nominee.  On his blog, documentary maker  Michael Moore  called the
film ‘‘a disturbing, fantastically made movie. It will make you
hate torture.’’  ‘Homicidal Torturer’  The chasm may have destroyed the chance for Bigelow and
writer-producer Boal to win a second best-picture Oscar. They
won for the 2009 Iraq War drama ‘‘The Hurt Locker,’’ with
Bigelow winning best director and ending an 80-year monopoly by
men.  Bigelow and Boal have maintained their film neither
supports nor condemns the interrogation methods used. The goal,
the have said, was to depict events accurately and let viewers
draw their own conclusions.  In the film, an al Qaeda operative in the custody of U.S.
troops is subjected to waterboarding, isolation in a small, dark
box, beatings and sleep deprivation. His tormenters ultimately
trick him into giving up the name of bin Laden’s courier,
leaving open the question of whether torture led to the
intelligence breakthrough.  Chastain, nominated for best actress, plays the relentless
CIA agent Maya, based on an actual agent who worked on the hunt
for bin Laden.  ‘‘I only hope that academy members consider the
implications of presenting a homicidal torturer as a beautiful,
innocent, persistent and courageous heroine,’’ Clennon said.
‘‘Then I hope they feel the freedom to vote their consciences,
rather than limiting themselves to considerations of aesthetic
merit, divorced from morality.’’  To contact the reporter on this story:
Michael White in Los Angeles at 
 mwhite8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Anthony Palazzo at 
 apalazzo@bloomberg.net  