-- Morgan Keegan Ordered to Buy Back Securities in SEC Suit
-- B y   C h r i s t i e   S m y t h e
-- 2013-02-16T05:01:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/morgan-keegan-ordered-to-buy-back-securities-in-sec-suit.html
Morgan Keegan & Co. was ordered to
buy back some auction-rate securities and pay $110,500 in a case
in which it was accused by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission of misleading customers about the risks of the
investments.  U.S. District Judge  William Duffey Jr.  in Atlanta ruled
yesterday that some of the company’s brokers negligently made
misrepresentations and omitted important information when
selling the securities. The judge said the brokerage didn’t act
fraudulently, ruling against the SEC on part of its case.  “Brokers apparently were lulled into describing it too
broadly and neglected in their discussions with the customers
discussed in this order to discuss the practical and technical
requirements of an auction and the consequences of an auction
failure,” the judge said in his order, referring to the
auction-rate securities market.  “As a result, the evidence in this case was that the
Morgan Keegan brokers discussed in this order neglected to fully
inform investors of the ARS risk when marketing the ARS product,
to include informing them of the risk of auction failures, the
concomitant loss of liquidity, and varying interest rates,”
Duffey said.  The opinion followed a non-jury trial held in November in
which the SEC tried to show that the company, now owned by
 Raymond James Financial Inc ., told clients that the more than $2
billion in securities it sold had “zero risk,” even as the
market was collapsing in late 2007 and 2008.  Voluntary Buyback  The trial was held after a federal appeals court reversed a
previous order in which Duffey dismissed the suit.  Before the SEC filed its lawsuit, Morgan Keegan voluntarily
bought back about $2 billion in auction-rate securities from
customers, it said in court filings. Duffey ordered that the
company buy back some securities from some affected customers.  Jana Strange, a spokeswoman for St. Petersburg, Florida-
based Raymond James, didn’t immediately return a call yesterday
after regular business hours seeking comment on the ruling.  The case is Securities and Exchange Commission v. Morgan
Keegan & Company Inc., 1:09-cv-01965, U.S. District Court,
Northern District of Georgia (Atlanta).  To contact the reporter on this story:
Christie Smythe in Brooklyn at 
 csmythe1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at 
 mhytha@bloomberg.net  