-- Treasury 10-Year Notes Off to Worst Annual Start in Two Years
-- B y   C o r d e l l   E d d i n g s   a n d   S u s a n n e   W a l k e r
-- 2013-02-16T05:00:20Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/treasury-10-year-notes-off-to-worst-annual-start-in-two-years.html
Treasuries fell, extending the worst
start of a year for benchmark 10-year notes since 2011, as
reports suggested the U.S. economic recovery is gaining momentum
and the government sold $72 billion in coupon-bearing debt.  Yields on 10-year notes have climbed 24 basis points, or
0.24 percentage point, since December. The yield reached a high
for the week of 2.06 percent Feb. 14, a day after the U.S. sold
$24 billion of 10-year notes at higher-than-forecast yields. The
yield dropped to as low as 1.94 percent on Feb. 11. Treasury
will sell $9 billion of 30-year inflation-index debt on Feb. 21.  “The data has been moderately better, which has weighed on
the path of Treasuries,” said  Christopher Sullivan,  who
oversees $2.1 billion as chief investment officer at United
Nations Federal Credit Union in New York. “Still, it’s
impossible to ignore the tight range we’ve settled in, and
that’s because political uncertainty is immediately ahead, and
growth is still fragile.”  Yield  the 10-year notes rose five basis points to 2 percent
this week, according to Bloomberg Bond Trader data. Thirty-year
bond yields rose one basis point to 3.18 percent.  Treasuries extended losses yesterday after reports showed
increases in manufacturing in the New York region and consumer
confidence. Retail sales in the U.S. rose in January for a third
consecutive month, a separate report showed Feb. 13.  Consumer Sentiment  The Federal Reserve Bank of New York’s Empire State index
climbed to 10 from minus 7.8 in January, exceeding all forecasts
in a Bloomberg survey. It was the highest since May 2012. The
University of Michigan index of consumer sentiment advanced to
76.3 in February from 73.8 the prior month.  Retail sales rose 0.1 percent in December, Commerce
Department figures showed, matching the median forecast of 80
economists surveyed by Bloomberg.  “The data suggests the recovery, while not in acceleration
mode, continues to edge along,” said  Ian Lyngen,  a government
bond strategist at CRT Capital Group LLC in Stamford,
Connecticut.  Even with the evidence of economic growth and renewed
investor optimism, investors continue to buy U.S. government
debt as a refuge against a renewal of turmoil in global
financial markets and concern the U.S. recovery may falter.  Adding to demand is concern over potential automatic
spending cuts stemming from a 2011 budget agreement scheduled to
take effect March 1 that threaten to slow growth even as
legislation funding government operations expires on March 27.
The cuts, known as sequestration, were first included in an
August 2011 deficit-reduction deal designed to be so draconian
that it would push Democrats and Republicans to compromise on
taxes and spending.  International Demand  “Anytime you get to 2.06, there seem to be decent buying
despite the overwhelming bearishness that seems to be
confronting the marketplace,” said  Thomas di Galoma , a managing
director at Navigate Advisors LLC, a brokerage for institutional
investors in Stamford, Connecticut.  China remained the biggest foreign owner of Treasuries in
December after its holdings rose $19.7 billion to $1.2 trillion,
according to the Treasury data released yesterday. The holdings
of Japan, the second-largest, rose $2.5 billion to $1.12
trillion.  Foreigners bought a net $29.9 billion of Treasuries in
December, according to the report, up from $26.4 billion the
month before.  Treasuries have lost 0.89 percent this year, according to
an index compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. The Standard
& Poor’s 500 Index of shares has returned 5.18 percent this
year, including reinvested dividends.  Coupon Auctions  The U.S. Treasury sold $16 billion in 30-year bonds on Feb.
14 at a yield of 3.18 percent and $32 billion of three-year
notes on Feb. 12 at a yield of 0.411 percent. The 10-year notes
yielded 2.046 percent, compared with a forecast of 2.039 percent
in a Bloomberg News survey of eight of the Federal Reserve’s 21
primary dealers.  Ten-year yields will climb to 2.33 percent in the fourth
quarter, according to analyst estimates compiled by Bloomberg.
Should they turn out to be correct, investors who buy the
securities today would lose 1.1 percent by the year-end.  “The market is playing ‘wait and see,’ said  Paul Horrmann, 
a broker in New York at Tradition Asiel Securities Inc., an
interdealer broker. “But the market is still more vulnerable to
higher yields given the economy.”  The Fed  said  on Dec. 12 that interest rates will remain
near zero “at least as long as” the unemployment rate stays
above 6.5 percent and inflation “between one and two years
ahead” is projected to be no more than 2.5 percent. Government
figures showed this month that the  jobless rate  was 7.9 percent
in January.  ‘Considerably Easier’  Fed Bank of St. Louis President  James Bullard  said central
bank stimulus has been ramped up this year with the decision to
increase outright bond purchases to $85 billion a month and that
a growing balance sheet could be complicated to unwind.  “The current stance of U.S. monetary policy is
considerably easier than it was in 2012,” Bullard said in a
speech on Feb. 13 in Starkville, Mississippi. “The size of the
balance sheet could inhibit” the Fed’s “ability to exit
appropriately from the current very expansive monetary policy.”  The Fed is scheduled on Feb. 19 to buy as much as $1.75
billion of Treasuries maturing between February 2036 and
February 2043, the Fed Bank of New York’s  website  showed. U.S.
financial markets are closed Feb. 18 for Presidents’ Day.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Susanne Walker in New York at 
 swalker33@bloomberg.net 
 Cordell Eddings  in New York at 
 ceddings@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  