-- Russian Meteor Is Largest Since 1908 Siberian Blast, NASA Says
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-02-16T11:58:06Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/russian-meteor-is-largest-since-1908-siberian-blast-nasa-says.html
A meteor that exploded in the skies
above Russia’s Ural Mountains was the largest since the Tunguska
blast in Siberia in 1908 and released about 33 times the energy
of the atomic bomb that destroyed Hiroshima.  Before hitting the Earth’s atmosphere yesterday, the object
was about 17 meters (55 feet) and had a mass of about 10,000
tons, the U.S. National Aeronautics and Space Administration
said in a  statement .  The meteor, which hit 16 hours before an asteroid half the
length of a football field hurtled past Earth, has prompted
calls to be more vigilant about the risks of strikes from space.
Every day, 100 tons of dust and sand-size particles enter the
Earth’s atmosphere, most of which burns up.  “We would expect an event of this magnitude to occur once
every 100 years on average,”  Paul Chodas  of NASA’s Near-Earth
Object Program Office said in the statement about yesterday’s
explosion. The Chelyabinsk meteor released 500 kilotons of
energy when it disintegrated above the city of Chelyabinsk at
about 9:20 a.m. local time, according to NASA.  Unrelated to asteroid 2012 DA14, which flew past by Earth
safely, the Chelyabinsk meteor hit the atmosphere at a speed of
18 kilometers per second (40,000 miles per hour) and broke apart
15 kilometers to 25 kilometers above the Russian city, according
to NASA.  Shock Wave  The shock wave from the meteor blew out in 3,700 buildings
windows in and around Chelyabinsk, the regional government said
in a  statement . About 1,150 people sought medical attention, of
whom more than 50 were hospitalized, the Health Ministry  said .  Burning streaks lit up the sky in videos that were caught
by drivers on dashboard cameras,  broadcast  on Russian television
and posted on YouTube. The force destroyed a warehouse wall at
the  OAO Chelyabinsk Zinc Plant  and disrupted service by Russia’s
second-biggest mobile operator,  OAO MegaFon .  A piece of the meteor probably hit a frozen lake about 80
kilometers (50 miles) west of Chelyabinsk, Vadim Kolesnik, an
Interior Ministry official, said yesterday by phone. A hole 8
meters in diameter was found in the ice, national television
channel Rossiya 24 reported. There are two other possible impact
sites, he said.  Divers exploring the lake haven’t found any pieces of
meteorite, Rossiya 24 reported today.  The Tunguska event, which was the  most powerful natural
explosion  in the modern era, leveled about 800 square miles
(2,100 square kilometers) of forest in Siberia, while leaving no
crater, according to NASA. The asteroid that scientists say
plowed into Earth about 66 million years ago, wiping out the
dinosaurs, may have been about 6 miles in diameter.  A United Nations team met in Vienna this week to come up
with recommendations on how best to track, and someday deflect
or destroy, orbiting space rocks.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  