-- Wrestling Head Ousted as Russia Blames Him for Olympics Demotion
-- B y   I l y a   K h r e n n i k o v
-- 2013-02-16T11:30:08Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/russia-ousts-global-wrestling-head-as-sport-loses-olympics-spot.html
Raphael Martinetti, the president of
wrestling’s governing body, was dismissed today after Russia
blamed him for failing to prevent the sport’s exclusion from the
2020 Olympics.  The International Federation of Associated Wrestling
Styles, or FILA, will elect a new head in late April or early
May, the Russian Wrestling Federation said in a  statement  on its
website.  Wrestling, which has been in the modern Olympic program
since 1896 and was part of the ancient games in Greece, was
eliminated from the “core sports” for the 2020 games, the
International Olympic Committee said  Feb. 12 . Instead, it will
vie for a place with karate, roller sports, climbing, squash,
wakeboarding and the Chinese martial art of wushu, as well
baseball and softball, which are seeking inclusion under a
single sports banner.  Mikhail Mamiashvili, Russia’s FILA representative, spent
half of the night persuading colleagues to oust Martinetti,
according to the wrestling federation’s statement. The move
followed a vote of no confidence by the FILA board yesterday in
Thailand, said the federation, which Mamiashvili heads.  Alexander Karelin , a Russian lawmaker and three-time
Olympic wrestling gold medalist, was unanimously named a member
of FILA’s bureau, according to the statement.  Russia won four of its 24 Olympic gold medals last year in
wrestling. Russia  dominated  the medals count in the sport during
the London games, with 11 total, followed by Azerbaijan and
Iran.  Phone calls to FILA seeking comment on the dismissal of 
Martinetti, who is Swiss, went unanswered outside of working
hours.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ilya Khrennikov in Moscow at 
 ikhrennikov@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  