-- Schaeuble Says G-20 Stands by Los Cabos Accord on Deficit Cuts
-- B y   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n   a n d   J e f f   B l a c k
-- 2013-02-16T14:16:55Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/schaeuble-says-g-20-stands-by-los-cabos-accord-on-deficit-cuts.html
German Finance Minister  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said Group of 20 finance chiefs agreed today in Moscow
to stick to deficit-reduction pledges made by their leaders
almost three years ago and to pursue a follow-up plan by
September, when top policy makers meet again in St. Petersburg.  There is a “clear commitment” by the G-20 to honor
promises made in the past, especially regarding the “Toronto
commitments” from June 2010, Schaeuble told reporters after a
two-day meeting of G-20 finance ministers and central bank
governors.  The G-20 will “stand by what was agreed at the G-20 summit
in Los Cabos, namely to agree on a follow-up solution to the
Toronto commitments by the next G-20 summit in St. Petersburg,”
Schaeuble said. “We all agree that a credible medium-term
reduction in the too-high deficits and debt is absolutely
necessary, especially for the advanced economies.”  The finance minister of Europe’s biggest economy came to
Moscow hoping for a “concrete” follow-up agreement to a G-20
goal set in Toronto in 2010 that’s been missed by countries
including the U.S. and the U.K. Undersecretary  Lael Brainard ,
representing the U.S. Treasury in Moscow, said the G-20’s
priority should be to find ways to strengthen economic growth.  Assessing the appropriate stance of fiscal policy has
caused rifts between the major economies since the global
financial crisis began in 2007. Recovery has proved much slower
than was anticipated in Toronto, Organization for Economic
Cooperation and Development Secretary General Angel Gurria said
in Moscow.  Leaders agreed in Toronto to halve their budget deficits by
this year and stabilize debt by 2016. Schaeuble has said
expressions of intent to consolidate budgets are important to
restore investor confidence in governments’ ability to repay
their debts.  The finance chiefs already watered down their Toronto
agreement after November talks in Mexico City, saying they would
ensure “the pace of fiscal consolidation is appropriate to
support recovery.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Rainer Buergin in Berlin at 
 rbuergin1@bloomberg.net ;
Jeff Black in Frankfurt at 
 jblack25@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  