-- Summers Says Tax-Law Uncertainty Weighing on Businesses Spending
-- B y   W i l l i a m   S e l w a y
-- 2013-02-17T05:00:01Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/summers-says-tax-law-uncertainty-weighing-on-businesses-spending.html
Former White House economic adviser
 Lawrence Summers  said uncertainty over the future of the
corporate tax code is creating a drag on the U.S. economy by
making businesses hesitant to invest.  Summers, the former director of President  Barack Obama ’s
National Economic Council, said in an interview on CNN that the
question of whether Congress will overhaul the nation’s tax
rules has brought about uncertainty for businesses, including
whether they should reinvest overseas profits in the U.S.  “Washington absolutely should provide clarity or certainty
this year,” Summers said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS” airing
today, according to a transcript. “It should do whatever it’s
going to do on corporate tax reform and then it should make
clear that those rules are going to be in place for the next
five years. And that will contribute to bringing money home and
getting it reinvested in the U.S. economy.”  Representative  Dave Camp , the Republican chairman of the
House Ways and Means Committee, is seeking to pass broad tax
changes this year, and some in Congress have sought to give
businesses a tax cut on profits brought back from overseas.
Obama this week called for “comprehensive tax reform,”
including cuts for companies that create jobs in the U.S.  Such moves to revamp the tax system have failed to advance
in recent years as Congress focuses on ways to lower the federal
budget deficit. Federal spending cuts caused the economy to
shrink during the last three months of 2012 as defense outlays
dropped by the most in four decades.  Summers said the federal government needs to keep working
to foster the economic recovery and should prevent across-the-
board spending cuts -- known as the sequestration -- from
beginning next month. He said faster economic growth would help
close the federal budget deficit by boosting tax revenue.  “It would be madness to let the sequester go brutally into
effect a month from now and slash federal spending quickly,” he
said. “Spending, taxing, it all does have to be adjusted over
time, but not immediately.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
William Selway in Washington at 
 wselway@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Steven Komarow at 
 skomarow1@bloomberg.net  