-- U.K., Germany, France Urge G-20 Action on Tax Avoidance
-- B y   G o n z a l o   V i n a   a n d   R a i n e r   B u e r g i n
-- 2013-02-16T06:14:03Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/u-k-germany-france-urge-g-20-action-on-tax-avoidance.html
Britain, Germany and France called
on other Group of 20 nations to curb tax avoidance by
international corporations that shift profits to territories
where they can pay the lowest amounts.  Citing research they commissioned from the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development that identifies loopholes,
finance ministers from the three nations said they will
spearhead work to get companies to pay tax where it’s due. The
countries provided the OECD with data to help identify schemes
used by companies.  “We do want businesses to pay the taxes that we set them
in our countries,” Chancellor of the Exchequer  George Osborne 
said today in Moscow, where he and fellow G-20 finance ministers
are meeting. His German counterpart  Wolfgang Schaeuble  said that
“multinationals, like local businesses,” must “pay their fair
share of tax.”  Western nations, seeking to shrink budget deficits, are
looking for ways to raise more money from companies to placate
voters squeezed by falling living standards and cuts to public
spending. The Paris-based OECD is working on plans which, if
approved by the U.K., Germany and France, will be put for
adoption to the G-20 in July.  Multinational Panel  Following the OECD’s analysis, Britain will now lead an
international committee looking to rewrite transfer-pricing
rules that allow companies to shift profits to lower-tax
jurisdictions. Germany will take the lead on work looking at
erosion of the tax base and France and the U.S. will examine
ways to determine tax jurisdiction, particularly for companies
involved in e-commerce.  Amazon.com Inc. was among three U.S. companies singled out
by U.K. lawmakers last year for not paying enough tax in
Britain. Members of Parliament’s Public Accounts Committee
criticized the online retailer, Starbucks Inc. and Google Inc.
for using complex accounting methods to reduce their tax
liabilities in the U.K.  Testimony by the retailers at a Nov. 13 hearing at times
drew laughter from lawmakers who queried how Amazon made 20
million euros ($27 million) profit on sales of 9.1 billion euros
across Europe and questioned why Starbucks remained in Britain
as it had recorded losses for most of the 15 years it had
operated in the country. Google paid 6 million pounds in company
tax in Britain last year.  The U.K. government said this week it would bar companies
with a history of breaking tax rules from winning government
contracts.  Under proposals published two days ago, companies bidding
for contracts starting on April 1 will have to make a
declaration about their tax compliance, and departments will for
the first time have the power to refuse contracts on the grounds
a company has broken anti-avoidance rules.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Gonzalo Vina in Moscow at  gvina@bloomberg.net ;
Rainer Buergin in Moscow at  rbuergin1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
James Hertling at 
 jhertling@bloomberg.net  