-- U.K.’s Cable Asks BOE to Improve Lending Program for Companies
-- B y   S c o t t   H a m i l t o n
-- 2013-02-16T14:14:48Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/u-k-s-cable-asks-boe-to-improve-lending-program-for-companies.html
U.K. Business Secretary  Vince Cable 
said he’s asked Bank of England Deputy Governor  Paul Tucker  to
study how the central bank could alter its Funding for Lending
Scheme to help small- and medium-sized companies more.  “SME lending still isn’t happening the way it should,”
Cable told journalists today as he attended the Warwick
Economics Summit in Coventry, England. “One of the questions
for the immediate future is how the FLS could be adapted to deal
with the needs of SMEs. I have written to the deputy governor to
seek a meeting seeing how we can address that.”  The Bank of England started its credit-boosting plan in
August as banks curtailed loans and policy makers raised doubts
about the effectiveness of their  bond-buying program . While the
FLS has eased the flow of mortgages, it hasn’t helped business
lending enough, so officials should look at ideas like that
proposed by former U.K. policy maker  Adam Posen  for the central
bank to buy bundled SME loans to increase supply, Cable said.  Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  has “taken the view
that anything other rock-solid gilts are not appropriate to have
as part of the balance sheet” of the central bank, Cable said.
“I understand where he’s coming from, but that is quite a
rigorous -- some critics might say rigid -- view by the bank and
more open-minded thinking about that would be helpful.”  Carney Change  The business secretary said that he hopes Bank of Canada
Governor  Mark Carney , who replaces King on July 1, is open to
new ideas on how to boost the U.K’s economic recovery.  “The main change people are looking for is a genuinely
open mind and a willingness to look at how monetary policy can
continue to support the real economy,” he said.  In a speech earlier today hosted by the University of
Warwick, Cable said the government needs to find the balance
between reining in the deficit and supporting economic growth to
maintain the confidence of financial markets.  He also added it’s “critical” that the U.K. should remain
in the European Union and that the risk that Britain will leave
the regional bloc in a proposed referendum in 2017 is no more
than 5 percent.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Scott Hamilton in London at 
 shamilton8@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  