-- Weale Says U.K. Exporters May See More Benefit From Pound
-- B y   J e n n i f e r   R y a n
-- 2013-02-16T18:17:18Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/weale-says-u-k-exporters-may-see-more-benefit-from-pound.html
Bank of England policy maker  Martin Weale  said that the full effects of the pound’s drop that
started in 2007 may not have fed through, and exporters may be
in line for further benefits.  “It may be that high levels of uncertainty and a
reluctance to take on new risks have stood in the way of
exporters seeking new markets and domestic producers doing what
is needed to displace imports,” Weale said in a speech at the
Warwick Economics Summit today in Coventry, England. “Provided
the calmer atmosphere we have seen since the summer is
sustained, we may see further benefits of the depreciation.”  Still, the U.K. faces a risk that net external debt may
rise to 70 percent of gross domestic product, and the “most
natural” way for that to be tamed would be for a further
depreciation in the pound, Weale said. The Monetary Policy
Committee member added that, while sterling’s decline this year
may add 1 percent to the price level over the next three years,
he’d disregard any  inflationary  impact of a weaker currency.  “The MPC remains oriented toward meeting our objective
using domestic instruments and does not target the exchange
rate,” Weale said. “I certainly see that there would be a
strong case for treating the effects of any further depreciation
similar to that experienced in the last few weeks in the same
way.”  ‘Some Way’  Since the start of the year, the pound has dropped about
4.9 percent on a  trade-weighted basis . That “pushes inflation
further from its target, but at the same time it probably goes
some way to reducing our external imbalance,” Weale said.  His attitude toward the pound is in line with the MPC’s
Feb. 7 statement that officials would “look through” a period
of above-target inflation to support the economic recovery. The
BOE held its bond-purchase plan at 375 billion pounds ($582
billion) and its  key interest rate  at 0.5 percent as officials
assess the impact of their Funding for Lending Scheme.  Policy makers pinned some hopes on an export revival to
fuel the U.K. recovery after the pound dropped about 25 percent
since the start of 2007. Weale said the improvement “has been
weaker than I would have expected.” The U.K.’s balance of trade
“is now not much better than it was in 2008” and Britain
“seems to have made no progress with rebalancing,” he said.  Trade Balance  The role of the pound in improving Britain’s position comes
to the fore since the U.K. can’t count on earning the same gains
on overseas assets relative to its liabilities or its income
account as before 2007, Weale said. Similarly, productivity
improvements may not be feasible, and a drop in wages isn’t
desirable, he said.  “Just as it may no longer be possible for people to pay
for their retirement by means of capital gains on housing, it
may no longer be practical for the United Kingdom to finance an
excess of imports over exports by means of a positive income
flow and capital gains made possible through gearing,” he said.  In response to audience questions, Weale said that the U.K.
had not pursued a deliberate policy of competitive devaluation
of sterling.  “What we have seen is the outcome of market forces,”
Weale said. Following the financial crisis, as people reappraise
their views of what an economy can deliver, “it’s natural asset
prices, including exchange rates, should adjust,” he said.  The MPC member also said it would be a “bad idea” for the
Bank of England to replace its inflation-targeting monetary
policy framework with one that focused on nominal gross domestic
product as that may boost inflation and be hampered by
measurement difficulties, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jennifer Ryan in London at 
 jryan13@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at 
 cstirling1@bloomberg.net  