-- Webb Stops ID List, Hong Kong Probes Amid Privacy Debate
-- B y   S t e p h a n i e   T o n g
-- 2013-02-16T03:46:35Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/webb-stops-id-list-hong-kong-probes-amid-privacy-debate.html
David Webb , a corporate-governance
activist in Hong Kong, said his website has suspended
publication of the identity-card numbers of more than 1,100
people after an inquiry from the city’s privacy commissioner.  Webb-site.com , which publishes commentary and information
including the composition of corporate boards in the city,
posted the Hong Kong identity card numbers starting on Feb. 12.
The list was suspended after Webb-site.com received an inquiry
from Hong Kong’s Privacy Commissioner for Personal Data, Webb
said in an e-mailed  statement  yesterday.  Hong Kong is considering changing its laws to make tracing
the personal details of company directors in the city more
difficult. The proposal, which comes amid increased scrutiny of
the wealth held by Hong Kong and Chinese officials and their
families, would obscure the residential addresses and full
identification numbers of a company’s directors to the public
from the first quarter next year.  “A compliance check on an online database containing the
ID numbers of more than 1,100 people is under way to stop
possible personal data breach,” the privacy commission said in
a  statement  posted to its website, and dated yesterday. “The
PCPD does not rule out the possibility of taking further
enforcement actions.”  The statement did not identify Webb-site.com specifically
and officials at the commission could not be reached to comment
outside of normal business hours.  The information on Webb-site.com comes from public sources,
and aims to increase transparency and combat money-laundering,
fraud and corruption, Webb said in yesterday’s statement. When
it was posted, Webb said the list included the ID numbers of
some of the city’s “well-known billionaires.”  “The fact that certain ID card numbers can be found on
public registers does not mean they are no longer ‘personal
data’,” the PCPD said in its statement yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Stephanie Tong in Hong Kong at 
 stong17@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stanley James at 
 sjames8@bloomberg.net  