-- Yen Resumes Slide as Finance Chiefs Fail to Single Out Japan
-- B y   J o s e p h   C i o l l i
-- 2013-02-16T05:00:27Z
-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2013-02-16/yen-resumes-slide-as-finance-chiefs-fail-to-single-out-japan.html
The yen resumed its historic decline
as finance chiefs from the world’s developed nations avoided
criticizing Japan for allowing the weakening of the currency to
gain an unfair competitive advantage in trade.  The Japanese currency fell as Group of 20 officials debated
adopting a tougher stance on exchange rates as they prepared to
reiterate a pledge against devaluations. The yen has tumbled
about 7 percent versus the dollar this year as new Prime
Minister Shinzo Abe seeks more aggressive monetary policy,
including the nomination of new Bank of Japan chief. Britain’s
pound depreciated as retail sales unexpectedly fell in January.  “The G-20 didn’t really single out Japan, which gives
policy makers in Japan the green light to continue the
expansionary fiscal and monetary policies,”  Omer Esiner , chief
market analyst in Washington at the currency brokerage
Commonwealth Foreign Exchange Inc., said yesterday in a
telephone interview. “All indications are that we’re likely to
get someone at the BOJ like-minded to Japan’s prime minister,
and that the BOJ will continue to ease monetary policy.”  The yen fell 0.9 percent to 93.50 per dollar this week in
New York and reached 94.46 on Feb. 11, the weakest level since
May 2010. The Japanese currency fell 0.9 percent to 124.96 per
euro. The shared currency was little changed at $1.3360 after
falling yesterday to $1.3306, its lowest level since Jan. 24.  A 0.1 percent advance by the yen last week against the
greenback ended 12 straight weeks of losses, the longest stretch
in records compiled by Bloomberg dating to 1971.  Winners, Losers  The Swedish krona was the biggest winner among the U.S.
currency’s 16 most-traded counterparts this week, and Britain’s
pound dropped the most. New Zealand’s dollar rose, while
Canada’s dollar fell for a second week.  The yen has been the worst performer this year among 10
developed-market currencies tracked by Bloomberg Correlation-
Weighted Indexes, depreciating 7.4 percent. The euro gained 2.1
percent, and the dollar rose 0.7 percent.  Futures traders decreased their bets that the yen will
decline against the U.S. dollar,  figures  from the Washington-
based Commodity Futures Trading Commission show. The difference
in the number of wagers by hedge funds and other large
speculators on a decline in the yen compared with those on an
increase -- so-called net shorts -- was 61,306 on Feb. 12,
compared with net shorts of 68,413 a week earlier.  Net-long bets that the euro will rise against the dollar
decreased to 24,181 as of Feb. 12, compared with 37,952 a week
earlier, CFTC figures showed. Traders reversed their bets that
 sterling  would gain against dollar, with net shorts totaling
16,776 on Feb. 12, versus net longs of 1,174 the week before.  Pound Weakens  The pound had its steepest weekly drop against the dollar
since June after U.K. retail sales decreased in January for a
second month, adding to evidence the economic recovery is
faltering.  Sales  including fuel fell 0.6 percent from December, when
they dropped a revised 0.3 percent, the Office for National
Statistics said yesterday in London. The median forecast of 24
economists in a Bloomberg News survey was for a 0.5 percent
increase. From a year earlier, sales declined 0.6 percent,
versus a forecast of a 0.9 percent gain.  “The data from the U.K. has disappointed once again,”  Ian Stannard , London-based head of European foreign-exchange
strategy at Morgan Stanley, told  Guy Johnson  yesterday in a
Bloomberg Television interview. “Sterling can go quite a bit
lower from here. Sterling will be one of the underperformers.”  The pound fell 1.8 percent to $1.5518. It depreciated 1.8
percent to 86.09 pence per euro.  Krona Climbs  Sweden’s krona touched a four-month high against the euro
on Feb. 14, a day after the Riksbank refrained from monetary
easing to weaken the currency. It climbed to 8.4282 and ended
the week at 8.4477, up 2 percent.  The nation’s central bank left its benchmark interest rate
unchanged at 1 percent, a decision that was predicted by 13 of
the 22 economists surveyed by Bloomberg. The rest forecast a cut
to 0.75 percent.  Swedish Finance Minister Anders Borg said last month that
the Riksbank’s policy of not cutting rates further is propping
up the krona and preventing the exchange rate from helping
sustain a recovery.  “While the Riksbank’s decision was not that surprising, we
are still a bit surprised that the krona strength doesn’t seem
to have any significance for the Riksbank,”  Carl Hammer , chief
currency strategist at SEB AB in Stockholm, said on Feb. 13.  The krona touched 6.2732 per dollar, its strongest level
since August 2011, on Feb. 13 before ending the week at 6.3222,
up 2 percent.  Kiwi, Canada  New Zealand’s dollar, nicknamed the kiwi, gained 1.1
percent to 84.51 U.S. cents after reports showed increases in
manufacturing, retail sales and consumer confidence. It touched
85.34 cents, the highest since September 2011. Canada’s dollar
fell 0.4 percent to C$1.0064 per dollar after factory sales slid
more than forecast.  The yen fell versus most major peers yesterday as Reuters
reported that former BOJ Deputy Governor Toshiro Muto is the
leading contender to become the next central-bank chief, citing
people close to the selection process.  BOJ Governor Masaaki Shirakawa, criticized by politicians
for not doing enough to end deflation, said last week he’ll step
down on March 19, about three weeks before his five-year term is
due to end.  “Muto is perceived as not as dovish as some of the
candidates,”  Sean Callow , a senior currency strategist in
Sydney at Westpac Banking Corp, said yesterday. “A significant
amount of the yen’s decline has been in not so much what the BOJ
has done in the period but what they’re expected to do in the
next year or two.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Joseph Ciolli in New York at 
 jciolli@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at 
 dliedtka@bloomberg.net  