-- 
French Open 2010 Finalist Stosur, Spain’s Ferrer Progress on Opening Day

-- B y   D a n i e l l e   R o s s i n g h
-- 
2011-05-22T18:23:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/2010-finalist-stosur-starts-french-open-with-a-win-over-benesova.html
Samantha Stosur, last year’s losing
finalist at the  French Open , opened the clay-court tennis
tournament with a straight-sets victory today over Iveta Benesova.  Playing with a new ball brand, the Australian won 6-2,
6-3 in the first match of the day on the main Court Philippe
Chatrier at Roland Garros in Paris. No. 7  David Ferrer  of Spain
also moved to the second round, beating Finland’s Jarkko Nieminen, 6-3, 6-3, 6-1.  The French Open is using balls made by French company
 Babolat , which earlier this year became the official ball and
racket string supplier of the world’s only clay-court major
through 2015. The tournament was played with Dunlop balls last
year. Dunlop also provided the balls at the main Roland Garros
warm-up events in Monte Carlo, Barcelona, Madrid and Rome this
season.  “They’re still pretty bouncy even this morning when it’s
not too lively out there and the sun isn’t beating down quite as
much as in the afternoon,” Stosur told reporters. “It still
gets up high and you can really kind of manipulate it how you
want.”  Stosur, seeded eighth, overwhelmed Benesova with top-spin-
laden ground strokes and high-bouncing kick-serves from the
start. Stosur secured her fourth win over Benesova in as many
meetings as the Czech dumped a forehand into the net on match
point.  Cilic Loses  Croatia’s  Marin Cilic , the No. 19 seed, lost to Spain’s
Ruben Ramirez Hidalgo in straight sets, and 17th seeded Jo-
Wilfried Tsonga of  France  beat Jan Hajek of the Czech Republic
6-3, 6-2, 6-2. Stanislas Wawrinka, the No. 14 seed from
Switzerland, advanced against France’s Augustin Gensse in four
sets. Former Wimbledon champion  Lleyton Hewitt  of  Australia 
withdrew from the tournament today with an ankle injury.  Jelena Jankovic of  Serbia , the No. 10 seed, and  Tsvetana
Pironkova , the No. 32 seed from Bulgaria, were straight-sets
winners, while Spain’s Maria Jose Martinez beat No. 19 Shahar
Peer of Israel 7-6 (7-4), 6-1.  Bethanie Mattek-Sands , at No. 34
the highest-ranked American woman in the draw in the absence of
injured Serena and  Venus Williams , overcame  Spain ’s Arantxa Parra Santonja in three sets. Svetlana Kuznetsova of  Russia , the
2009 champion seeded 13th, beat Magdalena Rybarikova of Slovakia,
6-2, 6-3.  ‘Quite Different’  The Babolat balls may benefit strong servers, Australian
Open champion Novak Djokovic told a news conference before the
start of the tournament.  “The balls are quite different,” said Djokovic, who’s won
37 straight matches to start the season. “They are very, very
fast, so it’s really difficult to control. Maybe it’s going to
favor the servers and the big hitters.”  Babolat spokeswoman Annie Coghill said the French company
had done “intense testing” on its balls and that the final
product was approved by the French tennis federation (FFT).  “Babolat developed the balls to meet the precise
requirements provided by the FFT,” she said in an e-mail today.  French Open  organizers blamed the weather for the players’
concerns. All laboratory tests found the balls are similar to
ones used in previous years. What’s different is that it hasn’t
rained in Paris for two months, tournament official Christophe
Hayaux du Tilly said in an e-mail.  Top Ranking  Djokovic will take over the top spot in the world rankings
from  Rafael Nadal  if he makes the final or if the Spaniard fails
to win the title. The Serb, who plays Thiemo De Bakker of the
Netherlands tomorrow, is second to Croatia’s Ivo Karlovic this
season on the ATP World Tour with 89 percent of his service
games won.  Grand Slam record holder  Roger Federer , the 2009 French
Open champion, doesn’t mind the new balls used in Paris.  “The change of balls, I’ve got used to that,” the third-
ranked Swiss, who faces Spain’s Feliciano Lopez tomorrow,  told
a news conference. “The balls are faster, indeed. It might be a
bit difficult in the beginning, but in the end, they’re not that
fast.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Danielle Rossingh at  Roland Garros  through the London sports
desk at   drossingh@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Chris Elser at   celser@bloomberg.net  