-- 
Labelux to Buy Jimmy Choo for for $811 Million in Bet on Luxury Expansion

-- B y   A n n e - S y l v a i n e   C h a s s a n y   a n d   A n d r e w   R o b e r t s
-- 
2011-05-22T23:01:41Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/labelux-buys-luxury-shoemaker-jimmy-choo-for-about-811-million.html
Labelux, the privately held group
that owns Bally, agreed to buy upscale shoemaker  Jimmy Choo  on
expectations for further growth in luxury accessories.  Labelux paid TowerBrook Capital Partners LLP more than 500
million pounds ($811 million) for Jimmy Choo, according to two
people familiar with the matter. TowerBrook made more than three
times its initial equity investment, said one of the people, who
declined to be named because the information is private.  “Jimmy Choo has enormous growth potential and the ability
to deliver material growth synergies across our group,” Labelux
Chief Executive Officer Reinhard Mieck said in a statement.  Jimmy Choo had net sales of 150 million pounds in 2010 and
is growing at more than 10 percent in all categories and
geographic regions, Labelux said. The company has 120 stores
now, double the number when TowerBrook acquired it.  Jimmy Choo’s founder, Tamara Mellon, and Chief Executive
Officer Joshua Schulman will stay on after the purchase, Vienna-
based Labelux said in an e-mailed statement late yesterday.  TowerBrook, which was spun out of Soros Fund Management
LLC, teamed up with Mellon and other Jimmy Choo management to
buy control of the company from Lion Capital LLC in 2007. The
offer valued the shoemaker at 185 million pounds at the time and
marked the third time the fashion brand was acquired by a
private-equity investor.  Asian Growth  “Substantial potential awaits the Jimmy Choo brand,
particularly in  Asia  where Labelux has a proven track record,”
TowerBrook co-CEO Ramez Sousou said in the statement.  Sales of luxury shoes will rise 20 percent a year through
2013, research firm Euromonitor said last year. Jimmy Choo,
whose Macy sandals were reportedly worn by actress Reese
Witherspoon at her March wedding, has reported sales growth of
more than 30 percent a year on average since 2001 as the brand
expanded into bags,  leather goods , scarves and sneakers.  The German billionaire Reimann family founded Labelux. The
company is part of the family’s Joh A. Benckiser SE, which also
owns perfume maker Coty Inc. and a stake of 16 percent in
Reckitt Benckiser, the world’s largest maker of household
cleaners.  Jimmy Choo was founded in 1996 by the shoemaker of the same
name and Mellon. Choo sold out in 2001.  Editors: Dick Schumacher, Heather Harris  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dick Schumacher in London at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dick Schumacher at 
 dschumacher@bloomberg.net  