-- 
Aramex, DP World, Qatar National, Sahara: Gulf Equity Preview

-- B y   Z a h r a   H a n k i r   a n d   M o u r a d   H a r o u t u n i a n
-- 
2011-05-22T04:59:27Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/aramex-qatar-national-sahara-maaden-gulf-equity-preview.html
The following stocks may rise or fall
in Persian Gulf markets. Stock symbols are in parentheses and
price changes are from the last close.  Saudi Arabia ’s  Tadawul All Share Index (SASEIDX)  gained 0.7 percent,
while Qatar’s  QE Index (DSM)  advanced 0.2 percent. Dubai’s  DFM General
Index (DFMGI)  declined 0.4 percent.       Aramex PJSC (ARMX UH): The Middle East’s largest courier
company wants to grow in Africa and has set aside as much as $70
million for expansion and acquisitions there over the next two
years, Chief Executive Officer Fadi Ghandour said. The shares
increased 1.1 percent to 1.86 dirhams.  [bn:WBTKR=DPW:DU]   DP World Ltd. (DPW)  : The company that operates ports
from  Europe  to  Asia  was cut to "neutral’’ from “buy” and
assigned a price estimate of $15 a share at EFG-Hermes Holding
SAE. The shares advanced 1.5 percent to $13.9.  Mohammad Al-Mojil Group (MMG)  : The provider of services
to the  construction industry  acquired Gulf Elite General
Contracting for 46 million riyals ($12 million). The shares
jumped 3.3 percent to 25.10 riyals.  National Central Cooling Co. (TABREED UH): The United Arab
Emirates company known as Tabreed said it completed the tender
offer for its 2008 sukuk. Separately, the company announced its
new shareholding after a trust certificates conversion. The
shares retreated 2.1 percent to 1.41 dirhams.        Qatar National Bank SAQ (QNBK)  : The Persian Gulf
country’s biggest bank by assets started operations of its
brokerage unit in the country. The shares rose 0.1 percent to
145 riyals.  Raysut Cement Co. (RCCI)  : Oman’s biggest cement-maker by
market value was raised to “neutral” from “sell” at EFG-
Hermes. The shares dropped 0.6 percent to 1.051 Omani rials.  Sabb Takaful (SABBT)  : The Saudi Arabian Shariah-
compliant life insurer appointed Adrian Flowers as chief
executive officer. The shares rose 0.5 percent to 19.05 riyals.  Sahara Petrochemical Co. (SPC)   and Saudi Arabian Mining
Co. (MAADEN AB): The Jubail-based manufacturer of chemicals and
the Riyadh-based metals producer awarded an engineering,
procurement and construction contract to Daelim Industrial Co.
for a caustic soda and ethylene dichloride project in Jubail,
Saudi Arabia. Sahara’s shares rose 2.3 percent to 24.05 riyals
and Maaden’s shares gained 0.7 percent to 27.40 riyals.  Saudi Hotels & Resort Areas Co. (SHARCO)  : The operator
of hotels and housing compounds in the kingdom bought a plot of
land in  Riyadh  for 50.5 million riyals. The shares rose 0.3
percent to 29.40 riyals.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Zahra Hankir in Dubai at 
 zhankir@bloomberg.net ;
Mourad Haroutunian in Riyadh at 
 mharoutunian@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at   cmaedler@bloomberg.net ;
Shaji Mathew at   shajimathew@bloomberg.net  