-- 
Australia’s Carbon-Tax Policy May Discourage Investment, TRUenergy Says

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-22T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/australia-s-carbon-policy-may-sap-investment-truenergy-says.html
Australia ’s carbon-tax policy is
discouraging investment in the nation’s power industry,
resulting in possible shortages in as little as five years,
electricity supplier TRUenergy Holdings Pty said.  A lack of detail on the government’s carbon-tax plan beyond
the next three years may damage an industry that depends on
certainty over a much longer period to attract investment,
TRUenergy Managing Director Richard McIndoe said in an interview
on Australian Broadcasting Corp’s “Inside Business” program
yesterday.  Hong Kong ’s  CLP Holdings Ltd. (2)  owns Melbourne-based
TRUenergy.  Australia, which burns coal to generate more than 80
percent of its electricity, plans to impose a price on
greenhouse gas pollution starting July 2012 in preparation for a
trading system that could begin as early as 2015, Prime Minister
 Julia Gillard  said in February. A cap-and-trade carbon program
would give  power plants , factories and other polluters a “very
strong” incentive to curb emissions, she said.  Australia, the world’s biggest coal exporter, has set a
target of generating 20 percent of the nation’s energy from
renewable sources like wind and solar by 2020. Gillard will
release details of her plan in the middle of this year,
including the level of the fixed price for carbon, compensation
to households and businesses and funding for clean energy
projects.  Some companies have called for changes to the plan and
warned of job losses. They include Rio Tinto Group, the world’s
second-largest mining company by sales, BlueScope Steel Ltd.,
Australia’s biggest steelmaker, and Woodside Petroleum Ltd., the
nation’s second-largest oil and gas producer.  Real Challenges  The proposed tax “really doesn’t give any long-term
certainty as to what the economic rules of the game are going to
be for investment,” McIndoe told the ABC. Asked whether lack of
clarity in the plan meant electricity shortages were possible in
five years or so, McIndoe said, “I think there’s going to be
real challenges in the peak times.”  TRUenergy said in March it may invest as much as A$10
billion ($10.7 billion) in new gas-fired power plants and
renewable energy projects by 2020, alongside similar investments
by other electricity providers including Sydney-based  Origin
Energy Ltd. (ORG)  and  AGL Energy Ltd. (AGK)   TRUenergy’s assets include the Yallourn coal-fired power
station in Victoria state and the Tallawarra gas-fired plant in
New South  Wales . The company has also sought Australian
government funding to develop a solar project, and received
approval to build a second gas-fired plant at Tallawarra costing
as much as A$330 million.  State Assets  In December, TRUenergy agreed to buy New South Wales state
electricity assets, including retailer  EnergyAustralia , for
A$2.04 billion, doubling its retail customers in Australia to
about 2.8 million. The company also bought three generator-
development sites and the rights to trade output from the state-
owned Mount Piper and Wallerawang coal-fired power stations.  “We don’t see a three-year tax, with uncertainty
thereafter as to what the long-term abatement targets are going
to be, and what the structure of that emissions-trading scheme
is going to be,” McIndoe said on yesterday’s program. “We
don’t see that as really encouraging capital to invest in the
industry.”  Electricity prices may rise another 30 percent during the
next three years as fuel costs rise, he said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  