-- 
Australian Treasurer Swan Says IMF Chief Should Be Appointed on ‘Merit’

-- B y   S h a n i   R a j a
-- 
2011-05-22T14:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/australian-treasurer-swan-says-imf-chief-should-be-appointed-on-merit-.html
Australia  said the new managing
director of the  International Monetary Fund  should be picked on
“merit” and that the convention of selecting only Europeans
for the post is outdated.  “The tradition of automatically appointing a European to
the role is one that’s long past its use-by-date given the shift
of global economic weight to emerging economies,” TreasurerWayne Swan said yesterday, echoing calls from Brazil,  China  and
others for an end to Europe’s 65-year lock on the top job. “The
most suitable candidate may well come from Europe, but I think
it’s essential that the appointment not be limited to any one
nation or continent.”  The IMF should consider giving developing nations,
particularly in  Asia , a bigger role in governing the
organization because of their increasing global importance, Swan
said in his weekly economic note.  The IMF has promised transparency in the selection process,
saying that by the end of June it will choose the most-qualified
candidate to succeed Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who resigned days
after his arrest in  New York  earlier this month on sexual-
assault charges. Any of the IMF’s 187 member nations can
nominate candidates for the managing director’s position between
May 23 and June 10, according to the agency.  The IMF said in Washington on May 20 that it aims to pick
the new managing director by June 30.  ‘Merit-Based Process’  In a separate statement with  South Africa ’s Finance
Minister Pravin Gordhan yesterday, Swan called on the IMF to
honor a Group of 20 commitment to appoint leaders to key
international agencies using “an open, transparent and merit-
based process.” Australia and South Africa together chair the
G-20 IMF Reform Working Group, according to the statement.  The IMF’s board will draw up a shortlist of three
candidates and publicize the names. The agency -- in which
nations have weighted votes, with the U.S. holding almost 17
percent of the total -- has said the objective is to select the
managing director by consensus.  The IMF’s pledge of transparency in the selection process
was in response to calls by  Brazil , China and other developing
economies for an end to Europe’s historical grip on the top job
in favor of a procedure based on qualifications alone.  Europe has moved to maintain control of the post as
officials closed ranks behind French Finance Minister  Christine Lagarde . Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said earlier
that the U.S. is “prepared to support a candidate with the
requisite, deep experience and leadership qualities, and who can
command broad support among the fund’s membership.”  Best Placed  German  Chancellor Angela Merkel  has said a European is best
placed to lead the IMF given the demands of the euro-area debt
crisis. The IMF approved a record $91.7 billion in emergency
loans last year and provides a third of the euro-area’s bailout
packages.  Officials in  Thailand , Russia and South Africa said the
next managing director should come from a developing nation
without agreeing on a candidate. Thailand and the Philippines
have backed Singapore Finance Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam as
a candidate.  John Lipsky , the No. 2 official at the fund, has been named
acting IMF leader. Lipsky, a former chief economist at JPMorgan
Chase & Co., is scheduled to retire in August.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Shani Raja in Sydney at 
 sraja4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Paul Tighe at 
 ptighe@bloomberg.net  