-- 
Biggs Buying as S&P 500 Profit Forecasts Rise Most in a Year

-- B y   A l e x i s   X y d i a s
-- 
2011-05-23T20:08:05Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/biggs-buying-as-s-p-500-earnings-estimates-climb-most-in-year-defying-gdp.html
Analysts are boosting U.S. earnings
estimates by the most in a year, a sign to  Barton Biggs  and
 Michael Shaoul  that stocks will weather the biggest drop in U.S.
economic forecasts since 2009.  Standard & Poor’s 500 Index profits may reach $104.73 a
share in the next 12 months as consumer demand pushes sales up
13 percent, according to data from about 9,000 analysts compiled
by Bloomberg. The income estimate rose 2.8 percent in the four
weeks ended May 2. Analysts are turning more optimistic as
economists cut projections for 2011 U.S. gross domestic product
growth to 2.7 percent from 3.2 percent in March, the data show.  Falling commodity prices and economic data that have
trailed forecasts by the widest margin since August sent the  S&P
500  down 2.2 percent since its high on April 29. Declines were
twice as much in stocks that led last year’s rally, the data
show. To Traxis Partners LP’s Biggs,  Kevin Rendino  of BlackRock
Inc. and Marketfield Asset Management’s Shaoul, earnings growth
will reverse the losses and extend the index’s two-year advance
of 97 percent.  “Investors are overreacting,” said Biggs, citing concerns
about the European debt crisis, housing and reduced stimulus
from the U.S. Federal Reserve. “All those worries are true, but
I can see a number of them will be resolved in the next two
months, and I do not think the global economy will slow down
significantly. Stocks are very reasonably priced on earnings for
next year.”  Deere, GE  Biggs, who oversees $1.3 billion in  New York , favors
machinery companies such as Moline, Illinois-based  Deere & Co. (DE) ,
 General Electric Co. (GE)  in Fairfield, Connecticut, the biggest
maker of  jet engines , and Peoria, Illinois-based  Caterpillar
Inc. (CAT) , the largest supplier of earthmoving equipment.  The S&P 500 doubled from its March 2009 low to 1,363.61 on
April 29, its highest level since June 5, 2008, as earnings
topped estimates for nine straight quarters. Per-share profits
in the S&P 500 are forecast to climb 17 percent in the next year
after increasing 36 percent in 2010, Bloomberg data show.  “Companies have executed,” said Rendino of BlackRock,
which oversees $3.64 trillion in New York. “Each quarter there
seems to be an abundance of bears saying, ‘This is as good as it
gets,’ and the quarter after that, it’s even better. It’s
emblematic of the fact that U.S. corporations have executed
quite brilliantly through this cycle. Stocks are cheap.”  Greek Downgrade  The S&P 500 slipped last week, falling 0.3 percent to
1,333.27, as profit from  Dell Inc. (DELL)  that exceeded analyst
predictions was offset by a credit downgrade of Greece by  Fitch
Ratings . Housings starts in the U.S. unexpectedly fell in April
as flooding and tornadoes in the South shut down construction,
the Commerce Department said May 17.  The benchmark measure of U.S. shares slumped 1.2 percent,
the most since March 16, to 1,317.36 at 4 p.m. in New York.  Analysts have raised forecasts for S&P 500 earnings during
the next 12 months each month this year, according to average
projections compiled by Bloomberg. They expect companies in the
benchmark gauge to earn $104.73 a share, up from $96.92 forecast
at the beginning of January, the data show. The four-week
increase on May 2 represented the biggest gain since May 2010,
data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Equity Valuations  Global per-share earnings will rise 18 percent in 2011,
Citigroup Inc. said May 18, boosting a previous prediction of 12
percent growth. Earnings are estimated to increase 11 percent in
2012 and 9 percent in 2013, analysts led by  Robert Buckland ,
Citigroup’s chief global strategist, wrote. A total of 328 of
454 companies in the S&P 500 that reported earnings since April
11 exceeded estimates, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.  Rising income has held down valuations in the S&P 500 as it
rallied 30 percent from last year’s low of 1,022.58 on July 2.
The index traded at 14.9 times profit since then, on average,
compared with a mean price-earnings ratio of 16.4 since over the
past 57 years, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  “You’ll have a couple of months when people can convince
themselves that anything will happen,” said Shaoul, the New
York-based chairman of Marketfield, who oversees $1 billion and
beat 99 percent of his peers last year. “People will start to
worry about the  U.S. economy . In the end, corporate earnings
will tell them they needn’t worry.”  Marketfield owns shares of Memphis, Tennessee-based  FedEx
Corp. (FDX) , operator of the world’s biggest cargo airline, network-
gear maker  Ciena Corp. (CIEN)  in Linthicum, Maryland, and Omaha,
Nebraska-based  Union Pacific Corp. (UNP) , the largest U.S. railroad by
sales, according to a March 31 filing.  Economic Reports  Government reports on the economy are failing to match
economist projections. The Citigroup Economic Surprise Index,
which tracks how much data has varied from predictions in
Bloomberg surveys, has sunk to minus 49.1, meaning reports are
missing projections by the most since August. The measure, which
starts in 2003, reached a record high of 97.5 in March.  A gauge of stocks whose gains or losses have exceeded the
market’s return shows companies that led last year’s rally are
trailing in 2011. The S&P 500 High Beta Index of 100 stocks such
as  Advanced Micro Devices Inc. (AMD)  and  Massey Energy Co. (MEE)  has dropped
4.9 percent in May and has lagged behind the broader measure for
three months, the longest stretch since November 2008. The S&P
500 has dropped 2.2 percent since April 29.  ‘More Defensive’  “We are at a stage of the recovery now where a more
balanced mix of sector leadership is likely to emerge,” said
Jeff Palma, a strategist at UBS AG in New York. “Numbers are
not as strong as we’re used to, but we think it will be
sustainable. If you’ve been pushing a very cyclical strategy,
then it is time to become a little bit more defensive.”  Palma expects the S&P 500 will end 2011 higher than last
week’s close and advises holding more technology, health-care
and phone stocks than are represented in indexes. UBS raised its
per-share profit forecast for the equity index last week to $101
from $96.  The advance since the S&P 500’s 2011 bottom on March 16 has
been led by companies whose earnings are least-dependent on
economic growth. Health-care stocks such as  Johnson & Johnson (JNJ) 
have the biggest increase among 10 industries at 14 percent. The
household-product group including  Procter & Gamble Co. (PG)  climbed
12 percent, phone companies like  AT&T Inc. (T)  gained 12 percent and
utilities such as  Southern Co. (SO)  rallied 11 percent.  Before March 16, those groups had the four smallest returns
of the  bull market .  ‘Playing Catch-Up’  Laszlo Birinyi, president of Westport, Connecticut-based
money-management and research firm Birinyi Associates Inc., said
higher estimates from securities analysts show they are
“playing catch-up,” and aren’t a bullish signal. The 67-year-
old former head of Salomon Brothers Inc.’s equity desk said he’s
still buying shares after being one of the first to advise
clients to own stocks as the market bottomed in March 2009.  “The earnings outlook is good and the earnings have been
good because companies have taken advantage over the past
several years to restructure and realign themselves,” Birinyi
said. “I’m still bullish and I want our clients and investors
to realize this is a protracted, long bull market. Don’t get
shaken out by the 3 percent or 4 percent declines.”  Salesforce.com Inc. (CRM)  in San Francisco, the largest supplier
of online customer-management software, Denver-based  Chipotle
Mexican Grill Inc. (CMG) , the burrito chain spun off by McDonald’s
Corp., and Paris-based  Hermes International (RMS) , the maker of Birkin
handbags, are among stocks Birinyi recommends.  Drugmakers, Utilities  Months in which so-called defensive industries lead the
market have been a time to buy stocks in the past, according to
data compiled by Birinyi Associates. The S&P 500 has returned an
average of 11 percent in the 90 days after drugmakers,
utilities, household-products producers and telephone stocks led
the index by 5 percent or more for two months, data from 13
instances since 1960 show. During those rallies, technology
makers, retailers and banks posted the biggest gains.  “Valuations are still reasonable and they won’t preclude
the market from doing well,” said Larry Puglia, who runs the
Blue Chip Growth Fund at Baltimore-based T. Rowe Group Inc.,
which oversees more than $500 billion. “Corporate earnings have
been quite impressive, which is favoring stocks.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Alexis Xydias in London at 
 axydias@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Andrew Rummer at   arummer@bloomberg.net  