-- 
Blackpool’s Holloway Is Devastated by Relegation as Birmingham Also Drops

-- B y   J a m e s   C o n e
-- 
2011-05-22T23:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/birmingham-blackpool-relegated-from-soccer-s-premier-league.html
Blackpool manager Ian Holloway called
his team’s relegation from the Premier League “devastating”
following a final-day loss that sent the Tangerines down only a
year after winning promotion.  Blackpool was beaten 4-2 at champion Manchester United,
while Birmingham lost 2-1 at Tottenham in yesterday’s final
round of games. Both join West Ham in dropping to English
soccer’s second-tier Championship.  “It’s devastating,” Blackpool manager Ian Holloway told
Sky Sports. “I don’t think we deserve it.”  Blackburn,  Wolverhampton Wanderers  and Wigan were also at
risk of demotion. Blackburn beat Wolves 3-2, while Wigan won 1-0
at Stoke City. All three retain their top-flight status.  “I think all the players showed belief,” Wigan manager
Roberto Martinez told Sky Sports. “It’s an amazing, amazing
achievement.”  Blackburn finished with 43 points, Wigan 42, Wolves 40,
with Birmingham and Blackpool on 39. West Ham had 33.  Arsenal will face a qualifying match at the start of next
season to play in  Europe ’s elite  Champions League  after
finishing behind  Manchester City  in fourth. The Gunners were
held to a 2-2 draw at Fulham, with City securing a 2-0 win at
Bolton.  Blackpool’s stay in the Premier League lasts only one year,
with the Tangerines giving up a 2-1 lead at United before
succumbing to a 19th defeat in 38 league matches this season.  Holloway said before the game his team would attack United
and the first chance arrived within the opening minute at Old
Trafford.  Park Scores  Charlie Adam crossed for Keith Southern, who was only able
to drag his shot wide.  United took a 21st-minute lead, Park Ji-Sung beating
goalkeeper Matthew Gilks after collecting a pass from Dimitar Berbatov. Gilks saved from Berbatov soon after and five minutes
before halftime the teams were level.  Adam, linked in U.K. newspapers with a move from Blackpool,
fired a 25-yard free kick past Edwin van der Sar, who was making
his final league appearance before retiring.  On 57 minutes, Gary Taylor-Fletcher flicked the ball past
van der Sar from close range and the visitor appeared set to
stay in the division.  But only five minutes later Anderson tied the game.
Blackpool’s Ian Evatt then turned a Chris Smalling cross into
his own net before former England striker Michael Owen came off
the bench to add a fourth goal.  Two goals from Roman Pavlyuchenko, including one in injury
time, condemned Birmingham to relegation. Craig Gardner had
given the Blues hope when he equalized after 79 minutes.  McLeish’s Vow  Birmingham manager Alex McLeish vowed to remain with the
Blues to spearhead promotion back to the Premier League.  “I’ve been knocked down and I’m going to rise to it,” he
told  Sky Sports . “It’s going to be a pretty horrible couple of
days -- or summer I suppose -- but I’ve got to work to get
Birmingham back to the Premier League.”  A Hugo Rodallega goal on 78 minutes gave Wigan a win to
keep its spot in the league, and Jason Roberts, Brett Emerton
and Junior Hoilett got first-half goals in Blackburn’s victory.
Wolves staged a fightback with strikes from Jamie O’Hara and
Stephen Hunt, but in the end other results meant the club could
not be relegated.  Elsewhere, second-place Chelsea ended its campaign with a
1-0 defeat at Everton and only finishes ahead of Man City
because of a superior goal difference.  Joleon Lescott and Edin Dzeko were City’s scorers at the
Reebok Stadium. Arsenal needed to better City’s result to take
this spot and avoid Champions League qualifying. The Gunners
could only tie, with Theo Walcott’s 89th-minute goal earning a
point for Arsene Wenger’s team.  Already relegated West Ham was beaten 3-0 at home by
Sunderland, and West Bromwich Albion rallied from three goals
down to tie 3-3 at Newcastle.  Aston Villa  defeated Liverpool 1-0.  A Premier League record 1,062 goals were scored this season,
beating the mark of 1,060 set in the 1999-2000 campaign. It
includes 32 scored yesterday.  To contact the reporter on this story:
 James Cone  in  London  at 
 jcone@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Christopher Elser  at   celser@bloomberg.net . 