-- 
BOE’s Dale Says Uncertain Recovery Shouldn’t Stop Rising Interest Rates

-- B y   S i m o n   K e n n e d y
-- 
2011-05-23T08:29:17Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/boe-s-dale-says-uncertain-recovery-shouldn-t-stop-rising-interest-rates.html
Bank of England  Chief Economist
 Spencer Dale  said that monetary policy makers should boost
 interest rates  to control inflation, even if Britain’s economic
recovery isn’t yet guaranteed.  “I’m not at all confident that the recovery has taken hold
and will definitely power away,” Dale said in an interview with
the Financial Times published May 21 in London. “However, I’m
even more worried about what’s going on in terms of inflation.”  Inflation accelerated to 4.5 percent in April, the fastest
since 2008, forcing Bank of England Governor  Mervyn King  to
explain publicly why officials have yet to raise borrowing costs
from a record low of 0.5 percent. In the minutes of the bank’s
May 5 decision, the majority of the committee said an increase
now “could adversely affect  consumer confidence .”  Dale has voted for rate increases since February and helped
compile forecasts this month using investor expectations that
showed the benchmark will rise once this year and reach 3
percent in 2014.  “That sort of broad path” for rates “didn’t look wholly
improbable,” he said. Still, “what we know is things will
change and the economy will evolve differently” and “as a
result the interest-rate path will differ as well.” A Bank of
England spokeswoman confirmed Dale’s comments and said he wasn’t
making forecasts for rates.  Tighter Policy  The pound strengthened against the euro and traded at 86.83
pence against the currency as of 9:16 a.m. in London, compared
with 87.25 pence on May 20. It fell 0.5 percent against the
dollar to $1.6149.  Dale began calling for tighter policy after the bank
completed its first quarterly predictions of the year in
February, joining  Andrew Sentance  and  Martin Weale . Data since
those forecasts has showed inflation continuing to accelerate,
while the economy stagnated in the past two quarters.  Sentance, who departs the central bank at the end of this
month, has been seeking higher rates since June. He told the
Sunday Times yesterday that inflation could stay high for a
“prolonged period” and “stick” around current levels.  The Monetary Policy Committee “has entered what is going
to be the most challenging period in its history,” Sentance
said, according to the newspaper. “We could be in for a
prolonged period when inflation is much higher than we would
like. The MPC may have to make some tough judgments.”  Bank Speeches  The nine-member panel has kept the rate unchanged for more
than two years. Deputy Governor Paul Tucker is due to speak in
 London  today, while the bank will release the text of a speech
by policy maker  Paul Fisher  tomorrow. Sentance is due to give
his final speech as a central bank official in St. Helier on the
island of  Jersey  on May 25.  “I’m not particularly happy about voting to raise interest
rates and doing it for nasty reasons” of curbing inflation
rather than economic growth, Dale said. He said he remains
“cautious about the degree” that the bank should raise the
benchmark, in part because of the impact on borrowers.  “I don’t take lightly the impact this could have on some
families,” he said. “But I think the cost to our economy as a
whole -- were inflation to persist for longer and our
credibility start to be eroded -- would be even worse.”  Dale highlighted the bank’s May economic forecasts, which
showed inflation will exceed the 2 percent goal until the start
of 2013. That implies an overshoot of the target during “the
best part of seven years,” he said.  Such a deviation may make people feel it is reasonable to
ask if the bank is “just as aggressive in getting inflation
back to target as it used to be, or is there a risk that it has
become a little bit more tolerant,” he said.  Alarm  Dale’s comments signal more alarm on the threat from
persisting inflation than those last week of his line manager,
Deputy Governor  Charles Bean , who still favored unchanged rates
this month. Bean said in a speech on May 19 that allowing a
“temporary” period of above-target inflation is consistent
with the bank’s mandate and is necessary to support the economic
recovery.  “The Monetary Policy Committee’s chosen approach has been
to accept a temporary period of above-target inflation, rather
than seeking to hold inflation as close to the 2 percent target
as possible at all times,” Bean said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Simon Kennedy in London at 
 skennedy4@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Craig Stirling at   cstirling1@bloomberg.net  