-- 
‘Tree of Life’ With Pitt Wins Cannes Festival Palme d’Or

-- B y   F a r a h   N a y e r i
-- 
2011-05-22T23:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/brad-pitt-terrence-malick-movie-tree-of-life-wins-top-prize-at-cannes.html
Two directors who made headlines at
the Cannes Film Festival for their conduct off screen saw their
movies win top awards last night.  Terrence Malick’s “ The Tree of Life” clinched the main
Palme d’Or award. The publicity-shy U.S. filmmaker wasn’t there
to collect it. He had reporters wondering about his reclusive
behavior as he also missed the film’s premiere and press
conference, which he left to the picture’s star,  Brad Pitt .  Denmark ’s Lars von Trier, on the other hand, was highly
visible and won plenty of media attention at the world’s leading
cinematic event. During the May 18 news briefing for his
“Melancholia,” he made comments about Hitler that led the
festival to pronounce him persona non grata. That didn’t stop
Kirsten Dunst, his lead, from being voted best actress.  “What a week it’s been!” said Dunst, in a strapless gown
of silver lame and chiffon, as she picked up the prize.  Robert De Niro , the president of the jury, said of “The Tree of
Life”: “Most of us felt very clearly that it was the movie. It
had the size, the importance, the intention.”  Inaugurated in 1946, the French Riviera event has long
played host to directors every bit as dramatic as their movies.
In May 1968, a rebellious group led by Francois Truffaut and
 Jean-Luc Godard  stormed the main movie theater, hanging from
curtains to prevent screenings from taking place; that year’s
festival was canceled as a result.  Malick’s “The Tree of Life” is about a 1950s mother and
father with different philosophies. Mom (Jessica Chastain) is a
believer in doing good and suppressing the crueler strands of
human nature. Disciplinarian Dad (played by Pitt) condones the
law of the jungle.  Sean Penn   Torn between the two, eldest son Jack (played in adulthood
by Sean Penn) questions life’s mysteries. Through him, so does
Malick, who was described by Cannes juror Olivier Assayas as
“one of the great artists of today.”  Assayas and his fellow judges -- including actors Jude Law
and  Uma Thurman  -- had 20 in-competition movies to choose from.  They handed the best-actor trophy to Jean Dujardin for his
role in the black-and-white silent movie “The Artist,” and
recognized Denmark’s Nicolas Winding Refn as best director for
“Drive.”  Fellow Dane Von Trier made waves when he said at his film’s
news conference that, while he long thought his family was
Jewish, he found out they were German. That, he said, “also
gave me some pleasure.”  “What can I say? I understand Hitler,” said Von Trier, as
Dunst, seated beside him, cringed and covered her forehead. “I
think he did some wrong things, absolutely, but I can see him
sitting in his bunker in the end.”  Cannes Ideals  The next day, the festival’s board of directors termed his
remarks “unacceptable, intolerable, and contrary to the ideals
of humanity and generosity” embodied by their event.  Cannes 2011 was not without glamour.  Johnny Depp  stopped by
for “Pirates of the Caribbean: On Stranger Tides,” flanked by
Penelope Cruz, the franchise’s first female pirate, who was
pregnant during the shoot.  Pitt posed with his wife  Angelina Jolie , who was wearing a
long black gown, at the “Tree of Life” premiere. And ex-model
Carla Bruni-Sarkozy, now  France ’s First Lady, got a cameo as a
museum guide in Woody Allen’s “Midnight in Paris,” which
opened the festival on May 11.  Off the red carpet, stars could be seen going about their
everyday business. Jude Law quietly helped a lady pull a bulky
suitcase off the airport luggage belt. Rob Lowe left a business
meeting in jeans and sunglasses. Tilda Swinton went for a walk
along the seafront with her boyfriend.  This year’s runner-up Grand Prix award was given out to two
movies: Turkish director Nuri Bilge Ceylan’s “Once Upon A Time
in Anatolia,” and Belgian brothers Jean-Pierre and Luc Dardenne’s “The Kid With a Bike.”  The Jury Prize went to Maiwenn’s “Polisse,” inspired by
true instances of child abuse reported by Paris’s Brigade de
Protection des Mineurs (Child Protection Brigade).  Information on the 64th  Cannes Film Festival :
 http://www.festival-cannes.com .  To contact the writer on the story:
Farah Nayeri at  farahn@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Beech at   mbeech@bloomberg.net . 