-- 
Canucks Beat Sharks 4-2 to Move to Brink of Reaching Stanley Cup Finals

-- B y   D e x   M c L u s k e y
-- 
2011-05-23T04:01:00Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/canucks-beat-sharks-4-2-to-move-to-brink-of-reaching-stanley-cup-finals.html
The  Vancouver Canucks  are one win
away from their first trip to the Stanley Cup finals in 17 years
after beating the San Jose Sharks 4-2.  The Canucks scored three 5-on-3 power play goals in a one
minute, 55-second span midway through the second period
yesterday at HP Pavilion in San Jose. Sami Salo scored twice and
Henrik Sedin assisted on all four  Vancouver  goals.  “We kept marching to the (penalty) box, they kept
scoring,” Sharks coach Todd McLellan said in a news conference.  Ryan Kesler and Alex Burrows added goals for Vancouver,
which leads the National Hockey League Western Conference finals
three games to one. The Canucks, the top seed in the West, can
wrap up the series with a home win tomorrow.  The winner will face the Tampa Bay Lightning or  Boston
Bruins  in the Stanley Cup finals. Boston hosts Game 5 of the
Eastern Conference finals tonight with the teams tied at two
games apiece.  In the opening round of the playoffs, Vancouver had a 3-0
series lead against  Chicago  and was pushed to a decisive seventh
game. The Canucks held a 3-1 lead in the second round against
Nashville before winning in six games.  “We’re excited, but the series is far from over,” said
Vancouver goaltender Roberto Luongo, who stopped 33 of 35 shots.
“We know that as we’ve seen in the first two series, the last
one is always the toughest one to win.”  Vancouver is seeking its first Stanley Cup title, having
lost in the finals in 1982 and 1994.  The Sharks, who got goals yesterday from Andrew Desjardins
and Ryane Clowe, have never reached the championship series in
their 19-year history.  San Jose  now has a 3-11 record in the
conference finals.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Dex McLuskey in Dallas at 
 dmcluskey@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Sillup at 
 msillup@bloomberg.net  