-- 
Coca-Cola Femsa Takeovers Loom With Profits Eclipsed: Real M&A

-- B y   T h o m a s   B l a c k   a n d   R i t a   N a z a r e t h
-- 
2011-05-22T23:24:56Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/coca-cola-femsa-7-billion-takeovers-loom-with-profits-eclipsed-real-m-a.html
After sitting on one of  Mexico ’s
biggest war chests, Coca-Cola Femsa SAB needs acquisitions more
than ever as its main rival’s profit increases twice as fast.  Mexico’s largest Coke bottler has doubled its cash hoard in
the past two years to $1.1 billion, more than all but two of the
nation’s 27 consumer-goods companies, according to data compiled
by Bloomberg. Coca-Cola Femsa has more cash versus debt than any
time since 2002, when the Mexico City-based company announced
its biggest takeover, the data show.  Coca-Cola Femsa hasn’t struck a deal greater than $100
million in three years and is losing ground after Embotelladoras
Arca SAB agreed to buy Mexico’s third-largest bottler this year.
Arca’s shares have gained about three times as much as Coca-Cola
Femsa since the end of 2008. As Coca-Cola Femsa seeks takeovers,
its finance chief says Arca’s deal may spur family-owned Latin
American bottlers to sell. The company may also look at Chile’s
 Embotelladora Andina SA (AKO/A) , according to Corp. Actinver SAB, or
Coca-Cola Co.’s Philippines franchise, said JPMorgan Chase & Co.  “They have a large cash position and they want to use it
for acquisitions,” said Jose Miguel Garaicochea, who helps
manage about $1 billion, including Coca-Cola Femsa shares, in
Mexico City for a Banco Santander SA unit. Arca’s takeovers put
“pressure” on Coca-Cola Femsa, he said. “Obviously, one would
want them to buy and buy cheap and that would help growth.”  Kent Landers, a spokesman for Atlanta-based Coca-Cola Co.,
declined to comment, as did Guillermo Garza, a spokesman for
Arca. Veronica Diaz, with Embotelladora Andina, did not respond
to a voice mail seeking comment.  Not Under Pressure  Coca-Cola Femsa isn’t under pressure to make acquisitions,
said Jose Castro, the company’s investor relations chief. Larger
acquisitions take a long time to negotiate, and Coca-Cola Femsa
won’t be rushed into overpaying, he said. The company didn’t buy
franchises in  Ecuador  and  South Korea  because of price, he said,
declining to comment on future potential targets.  Coca-Cola Femsa’s cash and short-term investments increased
to $1.1 billion as of March from $445 million at the end of 2008,
data compiled by Bloomberg show. Its total cash is the most for
any consumer-goods company based in Mexico after its majority
owner Fomento Economico Mexicano SAB of Monterrey with $2.31
billion and the $2.27 billion held by Grupo Modelo SAB, the
brewer of Corona beer, the data show.  “Investors and everyone are kind of waiting for something
to happen,” Lauren Torres, an analyst with HSBC Holdings Plc in
 New York , said in an interview. “For them to be sitting on this
cash and not putting it to good use does cause concern.”  Net Cash  Coca-Cola Femsa’s cash is projected to exceed borrowings by
yearend, JPMorgan estimates. That would be the first time in
eight years, just before the company completed its largest
acquisition, data compiled by Bloomberg show. Net debt is
currently $296 million.  In 2002 Coca-Cola Femsa agreed to pay $3.6 billion in cash
for Panamerican Beverages Inc., then  Latin America ’s biggest
soft-drink distributor with operations in eight countries in the
region. The deal, which closed in May 2003, took four years to
negotiate, said Coca-Cola Femsa’s Castro. The company also
bought a Brazilian bottler in 2008 from  Coca-Cola Co. (KO)  for $364
million.  Shares of Arca, Mexico’s second-largest Coke bottler, have
surged since it agreed in January to buy Tampico, Mexico-based
Grupo Continental SAB for 27.7 billion pesos ($2.3 billion) in
stock. Arca has risen 21 percent, outstripping Coca-Cola Femsa’s
3.8 percent increase. Mexico’s benchmark IPC index fell 6.3
percent in that span.  Profit Growth  Arca and Grupo Continental, commonly known as Contal, will
form a bottler called Arca Continental that had $3.3 billion in
combined revenue last year, according to data compiled by
Bloomberg. Coca-Cola Femsa had sales of $8.2 billion in 2010.  Analysts estimate that Arca’s per-share earnings will
increase 25 percent this year, versus 11 percent for Coca-Cola
Femsa, using generally accepted accounting principles.  “Investors want to see them move this cash to do
acquisitions and continue growing the business,” Karla Pena, an
analyst with the Mexico City brokerage Actinver, said of Coca-
Cola Femsa.  Arca’s Contal transaction adds to the two Argentine
bottlers purchased in 2008 and the $345 million cash acquisition
last year of a Coca-Cola franchise in Ecuador, which Coca-Cola
Femsa executives said they had considered.  Shares of Monterrey-based Arca have climbed 191 percent
since the end of 2008, almost triple the 64 percent gain for
Coca-Cola Femsa.  Bill Gates  Coca-Cola Femsa is 54 percent  owned  by Fomento Economico
Mexicano, known as Femsa, and the Coca-Cola Co. holds a 32
percent stake. The Bill Gates Foundation and Cascade Investment
LLC, which manages money for billionaire Gates, own 8.7 million
of Coca-Cola Femsa’s American depositary receipts as the top two
investors in the U.S. shares, data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Embotelladora Andina,  Chile ’s largest Coca-Cola bottler,
would be an attractive acquisition for Coca-Cola Femsa,
according to Actinver’s Pena and Greenwood Capital Associates.
The Santiago-based company, which has a market value of 1.54
trillion Chilean pesos ($3.3 billion), will post record profits
this year and next, according to analysts’ estimates compiled by
Bloomberg.  Brazil  accounted for 46 percent of Embotelladora Andina’s
sales last year, with 33 percent from Chile and 21 percent in
 Argentina , data compiled by Bloomberg show.  Chilean Bottler  “If I were them, I’d focus on what I know best, which is
Latin America,” said  Walter Todd , who helps manage $950 million
at Greenwood Capital in Greenwood,  South Carolina . “The Chilean
bottler, the exposure that they have to Chile, Brazil and
Argentina, it would be very good for them.”  Chairman Jose Antonio Fernandez said last year that Coca-
Cola Femsa won’t limit its acquisitions search to Latin America.  Coca-Cola Femsa may seek to acquire Coca-Cola Co.’s  North
America  bottling franchise, according to  Matt McCormick , a  money
manager  at Cincinnati-based Bahl & Gaynor Inc., which oversees
$3.6 billion. Coca-Cola Co. bought back the operations in
October for about $12.3 billion.  “Coca-Cola Co. may name multiple partners in North America
and Coke Femsa has to figure prominently in the list,” Carlos Laboy, a New York-based analyst at Credit Suisse Group AG, said
in an interview.  Laboy said in a report to clients in October that Coca-Cola,
the world’s largest soda maker, may ultimately break up its
newly acquired North American bottling operations into four
regional units and sell them. Coca-Cola Femsa would be a top
candidate, according to the report.  Philippines  Franchise  Buying one of the units could cost Coca-Cola Femsa more
than $3 billion, if each is valued equally.  Coca-Cola Femsa may also consider buying Coca-Cola Co.’s
bottling franchise in the Philippines, according to Alan Alanis,
an analyst with JPMorgan in New York. In 2007 Coca-Cola Co.
acquired the 65 percent of Coca-Cola Bottlers Philippines Inc.
it didn’t own for $590 million from San Miguel Corp., valuing
the entire operation at about $908 million.  “There’s an increased likelihood that they would have to
go outside of Latin America to fulfill their acquisition
plans,” Alanis said.  If Coca-Cola Femsa were to pursue all three potential
acquisitions in Chile, North America and the Philippines, the
total price tag would be more than $7 billion.  Latin American Bottlers  Coca-Cola Femsa Chief Financial Officer Hector Trevino said
the Arca merger with Contal may prompt Coca-Cola bottlers in
Latin America to explore selling.  “We will see a new wave of at least some curiosity from
some of the owners to look at a potential transaction,” Trevino
said in an earnings conference call April 27. “We’ll continue
to be active.”  Bahl & Gaynor’s McCormick says Coca-Cola Femsa should
return more cash to shareholders rather than pursue takeovers.  “They have a bunch of cash in their pocket,” he said.
“Acquisitions are one of the alternatives that people like, but
usually they take longer to impact the bottom line. Dividends
would be their best bet.”  Coca-Cola Femsa has already increased its dividend 67
percent to 4.36 billion pesos ($370 million) this year. Trevino
said last month that management would raise payouts if it can’t
find any deals.  “They generate a lot of cash so investors want to see them
move this cash to do acquisitions and continue growing,”
Actinver analyst Pena said. “They simply want the money to be
used somehow. If they see it’s not doing anything, then it can
hurt the share price.”  Overall, there have been 9,601 deals announced globally
this year, totaling $948.1 billion, a 21 percent increase from
the $786.5 billion in the same period in 2010, according to data
compiled by Bloomberg.  To contact the reporters on this story:
 Thomas Black  in Monterrey, Mexico at 
 tblack@bloomberg.net ;
Rita Nazareth in New York at 
 rnazareth@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Daniel Hauck at   dhauck1@bloomberg.net ;
Katherine Snyder at   ksnyder@bloomberg.net ;
Ed Dufner at   edufner@bloomberg.net . 