-- 
Consumer Spending Probably Eased in April: U.S. Economy Preview

-- B y   T i m o t h y   R .   H o m a n
-- 
2011-05-22T04:00:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/consumer-spending-probably-cooled-as-u-s-food-fuel-prices-bring-cutbacks.html
Consumer spending  probably cooled in
April as higher food and fuel prices forced Americans to cut
back on other items, economists said a government report this
week will show.  Purchases increased 0.5 percent, the smallest gain in three
months, after climbing 0.6 percent in March, according to the
median estimate of 66 economists surveyed by Bloomberg News
before a May 27 Commerce Department report. Other data may show
business investment, the stalwart of the recovery, kept growing.  Manufacturers like  Deere & Co. (DE)  are benefiting from gains in
spending on equipment and software, while retailers like Wal-
Mart Stores Inc. are reporting slower U.S. sales as households
feel the pinch of grocery and energy bills. Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  is among Federal Reserve officials who predict the
acceleration in commodity prices will be temporary.  “Consumers are allocating more of their dollars toward
fuel,” said  Russell Price , a senior economist at Ameriprise
Financial Inc. in  Detroit . “Manufacturing has been holding up
pretty well considering the rise in gasoline prices” and the
supply-chain disruptions in  Japan , he said.  The Commerce Department report will also show incomes rose
0.4 percent, the seventh straight monthly gain, after a 0.5
percent increase in March, according to the survey median.  Higher prices for necessities like food and energy are
weighing on purchases of less essential items. The average cost
of a gallon of regular gasoline averaged $3.81 in April after
$3.54 the prior month, according to AAA, the nation’s biggest
motoring organization.  Less Pressure  Cost pressures have started to wane this month. Prices at
the pump peaked at $3.99 on May 4, the highest since July 2008,
and declined to $3.89 on May 19.  Sales at U.S. Wal-Mart stores open at least a year dropped
1.1 percent in the first quarter, the eighth decline in a row,
the world’s largest retailer said last week. Customers are still
struggling with economic uncertainty, buying more generic items
rather than their more costly name-brand counterparts,
executives said in a May 17 pre-recorded call.  American manufacturers are faring better than consumers as
increasing demand from emerging economies like China supplements
gains in business spending.  Deere, the world’s largest farm-equipment maker, last week
raised its fiscal 2011 earnings forecast and posted second-
quarter profit that beat analysts’ estimates amid increasing
demand for agriculture and construction equipment.  Equipment Orders  A May 25 Commerce Department report will show that orders
for durable goods, excluding volatile transportation bookings,
increased 0.5 percent in April after a 2.3 percent jump the
prior month. Overall demand fell 2.5 percent, economists said,
because of a drop in airplane orders at Boeing Co.  One part of the world’s largest economy that continues to
struggle is the housing market, particularly as foreclosures
mount. Pending home sales, or contract signings for existing
homes, fell 1 percent in April after a 5.1 percent increase the
prior month, economists forecast the National Association of
Realtors will report on May 27.  Sales of new homes, which account for about 5 percent of
the market, were little changed at a 300,000 annual pace in
April, according to economists surveyed by Bloomberg ahead of a
May 24 report from the Commerce Department. New houses have sold
at an average 294,000 rate in the first three months of the
year, compared with a record-low 323,000 for all of 2010.  Shares of machinery makers have outpaced homebuilders since
the beginning of the year. The Standard & Poor’s Supercomposite
Machinery Index has climbed 5.1 percent compared with little
change for the S&P Supercomposite Homebuilder Index.  Jobs, Sentiment  Gains in employment and higher stock values are outweighing
 gas prices  when it comes to confidence among Americans,
according to data from Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan.  The group’s final sentiment index for May is projected to
climb to 72.4, the highest in three months, from 69.8 at the end
of April, according to economists surveyed ahead of the May 27
report.  The pace of growth during the first quarter was stronger
than previously estimated, economists said figures from the
Commerce Department on May 26 will show. The economy expanded at
a 2.2 percent rate, up from the 1.8 percent initially estimated,
according to the survey median.  The GDP estimate is the second of three for the quarter,
with the final release scheduled for June, when more information
becomes available.  
To contact the reporter on this story:
Timothy R. Homan in Washington at 
 thoman1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Christopher Wellisz in Washington at 
 cwellisz@bloomberg.net  