-- 
Crude Oil Drops on Concern Europe Debt Crisis Will Slow Demand

-- B y   A y e s h a   D a y a   a n d   C h r i s t i a n   S c h m o l l i n g e r
-- 
2011-05-23T12:25:33Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/crude-oil-for-july-delivery-declines-as-much-as-0-7-percent-in-new-york.html
Oil fell in New York amid concern
that  Europe ’s sovereign debt situation may weaken fuel demand
while the dollar rose to a nine-week high against the euro.  Futures slid as much as 3 percent after Spain’s governing
Socialist party suffered its worst electoral defeat in more than
30 years and  Standard & Poor’s  said on May 20 it may lower
Italy’s credit rating. A stronger dollar reduces the appeal of
commodities as an alternative to the U.S. currency.  “External macro factors, especially the strength of the
 U.S. dollar  and the negative start of the week in Asian
equities, have weakened commodities,” said  Eugen Weinberg , an
analyst at Commerzbank AG. “The dollar is higher against the
euro because of worries about Europe’s debt.”  Crude for July delivery lost as much as $3.40 to $96.70 a
barrel in electronic trading on the  New York Mercantile
Exchange . It was at $97.07 at 1:20 p.m. London time.  Brent crude  for July settlement on the London-based ICE
Futures Europe exchange fell as much as $3.81, or 3.4 percent,
to $108.58 a barrel. On May 20, the contract climbed 97 cents,
or 0.9 percent, to $112.39.  The euro weakened by 1.4 percent against the dollar to
$1.3970, the lowest since March 16, while the Stoxx Europe 600
Index declined 1.5 percent.  Greek Bonds Plunge  Greek Prime Minister  George Papandreou  is scheduled to
brief his Cabinet today on budget cuts and asset sales to keep
European aid. Greek government bonds plunged May 20, driving 10-
year yields to a euro-era high, on speculation the nation won’t
be able to avoid reorganizing its debt. The spread, or yield
difference, between the 10-year bonds and similar-maturity
German bunds widened to a record. Fitch cut Greece’s credit
rating to B+ from BB+, four notches below investment grade.  “This past week was fraught with concern that Greece and
 Spain ’s persistent debt problems could affect global markets,”
John Caiazzo, president of Acuvest Commodity Brokers Inc. in
Temecula, California, said in a note to clients. “We continue
to favor the short side for an eventual move for nearby futures
crude to the $80 to $85 price level.”  U.S. consumer spending probably cooled in April amid higher
fuel prices, a Bloomberg News survey showed before a government
report this week.  “Slowing economic growth is likely to result in
disappointing oil demand during the quarter and beyond,”
 Christophe Barret , a London-based oil analyst at Credit Agricole
SA, said in a report today.  Hedge Fund Bets  Hedge funds  cut bullish bets on oil in  New York  as the
dollar strengthened amid an exodus from commodities. The funds
and other large speculators reduced so-called net long
positions, or wagers on rising prices, by 13 percent in the
seven days ended May 17, according to the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission’s Commitments of Traders report. They dropped
to the lowest level since the week ended Feb. 15, when the
resignation of  Hosni Mubarak  as Egypt’s president sent oil to an
11-week low, the May 20 report showed.  In Iceland, a volcanic eruption is abating after forcing
the country’s main international airport to close, the second
such disruption in 13 months to the island nation’s air traffic.  “Prices are on a downwards trend on the back of renewed
Icelandic volcano fears, ongoing European debt miasma and
potentially also the latest CFTC data,” analysts led by  David Wech  at Vienna-based researcher JBC Energy GmbH said in a note.  An eruption at Eyjafjallajokull on April 14, 2010, closed
European airspace for six days, grounding 100,000 flights at a
cost of $1.7 billion, according to an estimate then by the
 International Air Transport Association .  Wild Card  “The volcano in Iceland is still a wild card,” Bjarne Schieldrop, chief commodity analyst at SEB AB, Sweden’s third-
biggest bank by market value, said in a report today.  Economic reports indicated the U.S. economic recovery is
sputtering and fuel demand may drop. The index of U.S. leading
indicators slipped in April after nine months of increases.
Manufacturing in the Philadelphia area grew in May at the
slowest pace in seven months and April existing home sales fell.  Consumer spending  probably cooled in April as higher food
and fuel prices forced Americans to cut back on other items,
economists said a government report May 27 will show. Purchases
probably increased 0.5 percent, the smallest gain in three
months, after climbing 0.6 percent in March, according to the
median of 66 estimates in a Bloomberg News survey.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Christian Schmollinger in Singapore at 
 christian.s@bloomberg.net ;
Ayesha Daya in Dubai at 
 adaya1@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Stephen Voss at 
 sev@bloomberg.net  