-- 
Deutsche Telekom Weighs Polish Fixed Lines, Slovakian Buyout in Turnaround

-- B y   C o r n e l i u s   R a h n
-- 
2011-05-23T15:41:23Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/deutsche-telekom-weighs-polish-fixed-line-asset-slovak-buyout.html
Deutsche Telekom AG (DTE) , which agreed to
sell its T-Mobile USA wireless unit for $39 billion in March,
may acquire fixed-line assets in European markets such as Poland
to help stem customer defections in the region.  Europe ’s biggest phone company is evaluating whether to add
traditional phone-line or broadband businesses to its mobile
operations in Poland, the Netherlands and  Austria , said Roland Mahler, the head of Europe excluding  Germany . Deutsche Telekom
is in talks to buy the 49 percent stake it doesn’t already own
in  Slovak Telekom AS  with the local government, he said.  “Fixed-mobile convergence is a precondition to be able to
leverage the market and certainly to serve the customer best by
offering fixed, broadband, TV or IPTV,” Mahler, 62, said in
Warsaw in an interview. “In the integrated markets we see the
customers want exactly that kind of full-fledged proposition.”  Chief Executive Officer Rene Obermann needs to revive sales
in eastern Europe to meet a target of boosting profit margins
and returning Europe excluding Germany to growth by 2013.  Polska
Telefonia Cyfrowa , the Polish wireless company Deutsche Telekom
fully controls after a decade-long fight for ownership with
 Vivendi SA (VIV) , is the Bonn-based company’s biggest standalone
national wireless division outside Germany and the U.S.  Polish Targets  Potential takeover targets in Poland include  Netia SA (NET) ,
Telefonia Dialog SA and Exatel SA, said  Pawel Puchalski , a
Warsaw-based analyst at  Bank Zachodni WBK SA. (BZW)  The companies
compete with  Telekomunikacja Polska SA (TPS) , the  France Telecom SA (FTE) 
unit that is Poland’s biggest phone company.  Netia, whose investors include Third Avenue Management LLC
and  ING Groep NV (INGA) , gained 0.6 percent to 5.53 zloty at the close
of trading in Warsaw, giving it a market value of 2.15 billion
zloty ($763 million). Deutsche Telekom fell 0.9 percent to 10.42
euros in  Frankfurt , valuing the company at 45 billion euros.
Telefonia Dialog and Exatel aren’t publicly traded.  “The market would like to see PTC together with Netia, but
it would be quite a big expense,” Puchalski said.  The sale of T-Mobile USA to  AT&T Inc. (T)  leaves Deutsche
Telekom focused on Germany and southern and eastern Europe.
First-quarter operating profit fell in all European markets
except Germany and the  Czech Republic . The region had an
adjusted margin of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortization of 33.3 percent, compared with 39.7 percent at
the German business.  Permanent Successor  To ramp up cross-selling and reduce the reliance on a surge
for mobile data products, Deutsche Telekom has followed
Germany’s example and begun combining traditional phone and
broadband lines and mobile-phone offers in other European
markets. The move would allow pushing new products such as
Internet TV, sold in Germany as “Entertain,” bolster revenue
per user and increase customer loyalty, Mahler said.  Mahler last month replaced Guido Kerkhoff, who left to
become chief financial officer at ThyssenKrupp AG. Mahler, who
took the role on an interim basis as Deutsche Telekom looks for
a permanent replacement, led T-Mobile Czech Republic from 2000
through last year, turning the unit into the most profitable of
all national divisions.  While buying fixed-line assets in  Poland  is “a valid
option,” Deutsche Telekom will focus the next six months on
completing a rebranding, announced last week and effective from
June 5, that will see the blue  Era  marque replaced by T-Mobile’s
magenta logo used across Europe and in the U.S. PTC, the third-
biggest mobile-phone operator in Poland by subscribers, competes
with Polkomtel SA, whose owners are aiming to complete a sale
next month.  Slovak Telekom, OTE  The Polish, Czech and Slovak units are at the forefront of
a nascent turnaround in the region as prices are starting to
stabilize or rise in some markets, said Mahler.  “They can’t just stop the macroeconomic and regulatory
woes in the region, but it’s in their hands to control costs and
hold on to customers,” said Stephan Thomas, who helps manage
about 16 billion euros ($22.5 billion) at Frankfurt Trust
including Deutsche Telekom shares.  Deutsche Telekom is “a little bit more hesitant” to
increase its 30 percent stake in  Hellenic Telecommunications
Organization SA (HTO) , also called OTE, because of the recession in
 Greece  and a lack of government cooperation, Mahler said.  Greece plans to sell its 20 percent OTE stake this year as
part of a 50 billion-euro asset sale program. It has the right
to sell 10 percent to Deutsche Telekom by the end of the year.  The Slovak state has said it wants to divest a stake in
 Slovak Telekom  in the next two years to cut the  budget deficit .  Greece, Romania  In Romania and Greece, “the situation is so severe” that
it may take longer than until 2013 for sales to begin to
recover, Mahler said in the interview.  Deutsche Telekom will address the “strategic challenge”
to decide whether to get into the fixed-line market in Austria
and the Netherlands, he said.  The European unit accounted for 34 percent of Deutsche
Telekom’s net revenue in the first quarter, excluding  T-Mobile
USA , and for the same share of adjusted Ebitda. It lost 7.5
percent of traditional phone connections and 2.5 percent of
mobile-phone subscriptions in the period from a year earlier.  The German company is placing more eastern European
managers in leadership positions. Mahler is broadening cost-
reduction efforts beyond joint purchasing to include unified
customer relationship management, shared IT support and common
accounting standards.  “We have to convince the national companies that a common
platform is needed, that it’s the right one and also that it
comes at the right cost,” Mahler said. “It does not work if a
headquarter wants to apply a push approach. You have to make
your offers attractive enough that the national companies are
going to go for it.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Cornelius Rahn in Frankfurt at 
 crahn2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Kenneth Wong in Berlin at 
 kwong11@bloomberg.net  