-- 
Egypt Is ‘Disintegrating’ as Tourism Drop Cripples Economy, ElBaradei Says

-- B y   J i m   S n y d e r
-- 
2011-05-22T04:00:01Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/egypt-is-disintegrating-as-tourism-drop-cripples-economy-elbaradei-says.html
Egypt  is disintegrating socially and
its economy “is bust,” said  Mohamed ElBaradei , the former
director of the  International Atomic Energy Agency  and possible
candidate for the Egyptian presidency.  “Right now, socially, we are disintegrating,” ElBaradei
said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,” scheduled to air today.
“Economically we are not in the best state. Politically it’s --
it’s like a black hole. We do not know where we are heading.”  ElBaradei said many Egyptians don’t feel secure as the
country struggles to create a new government after former
president  Hosni Mubarak  was forced from power by protests
earlier this year.  “People do not feel secure,” ElBaradei said. “They are
buying guns” to protect themselves, he said.  ElBaradei said he wasn’t sure when a presidential race
could begin because there aren’t any laws that outline “how to
run a campaign, how you raise funds” or when candidates can
become official.  “What kind of state or regime we are going to have?”
ElBaradei asked. “Is it a presidential system? Is it a
parliamentary system? When are we going to have a new
constitution?”  Muslim Brotherhood  He also expressed concern about the influence of the
Islamic group the Muslim Brotherhood, which has had longer to
organize than other nascent political contenders. ElBaradei said
the election may slip to next year given the uncertainty.  Amre Moussa , the former Egyptian foreign minister who is
stepping down as the head of the  Arab League  to seek his
country’s presidency, said in a separate interview on the CNN
program that he doesn’t think Egypt’s current problems will
“derail the revolution or derail our quest for and movement
towards democracy.”  ElBaradei said the Egyptian economy is suffering from no
investment, inflation, a  budget deficit  and lack of tourism. He
urged more outside investment in the country to spur an economic
recovery.  The number of tourists visiting Egypt slumped by about 60
percent in March from a year earlier, after the popular uprising
against Mubarak, according to the Cairo-based government
statistics agency. Tourists’ spending fell to $352 million from
$1 billion, it said.  In addition to lost tourism revenue, factory output has
been hit by strikes and near-daily protests since the uprising,
many demanding wage increases. Growth may slow to 1 percent this
year, the lowest rate in almost two decades, the  International
Monetary Fund  has said.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jim Snyder in Washington at 
 jsnyder24@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Mark Silva at   msilva34@bloomberg.net  