-- 
Egyptian Groups Call for Second Round of ‘Rage’ Protests on Lack of Change

-- B y   A h m e d   N a m a t a l l a
-- 
2011-05-22T13:15:35Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/egypt-groups-call-for-second-round-of-rage-on-lack-of-change.html
Egyptian pro-democracy groups are
calling for a second round of so-called “rage” protests on May
27 because of a lack of political progress and perceived failure
to prosecute members of former President  Hosni Mubarak ’s regime.  The protests are proposed by several groups including Six
of April Youth, which helped organize the first of a series of
protests on Jan. 25 that led to Mubarak’s departure in February.
Demonstrators will demand speedy trials for members of the
former regime, the dissolution of municipal councils and
establishment of a 50-member committee to advise Egypt’s ruling
military council, Mohamed Adel, spokesman for the group, said.  “We see the need to continue the revolution because the
real symbols of the former regime have not been held accountable
yet,” Adel said. “We also want the military to approve forming
a committee that represents groups like us for consultation on
governance in order to add a civil element that keeps the
revolution’s goals in sight.”  Protesters in the North African country first called for a
“day of rage” on Jan. 28, when hundreds of thousands took to
the streets to demand an end to the thirty-year-old regime of
Mubarak. Three months after the president’s ouster, two
sentences have been handed down to the former ministers of
interior and tourism on corruption convictions.  Egypt  is disintegrating socially and its economy “is
bust,” said  Mohamed ElBaradei , the former director of the
 International Atomic Energy Agency  and possible candidate for
the Egyptian presidency.  ‘Disintegrating’ Society  “Right now, socially, we are disintegrating,” ElBaradei
said on CNN’s “Fareed Zakaria GPS,” scheduled to air today.
“Economically we are not in the best state. Politically it’s --
it’s like a black hole. We do not know where we are heading.”  ElBaradei said many Egyptians don’t feel secure as the
country struggles to create a new government after former
president Hosni Mubarak was forced from power by protests
earlier this year.  “The momentum the call has gained shows growing concern
among Egyptians that the aims of the revolution have not been
achieved,” Hassan Nafaa, political science professor at Cairo
University and former coordinator of ElBaradei’s National
Association for Change, said by telephone from Cairo. “There’s
a feeling the government and military are not doing enough to
change the status quo.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Ahmed A Namatalla in Cairo at 
 anamatalla@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Claudia Maedler at 
 cmaedler@bloomberg.net  