-- 
Ensco, U.S. Seek, Get More Time to Reach Deep-Water Deal

-- B y   A l l e n   J o h n s o n   J r .   a n d   L a u r e l   B r u b a k e r   C a l k i n s
-- 
2011-05-23T21:14:47Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/ensco-u-s-report-significant-progress-in-deepwater-drilling-ban-talks.html
Ensco Offshore Co. and the U.S.
 Justice Department  sought and received more time to negotiate an
end to its lawsuit over deep-water oil drilling permits.  U.S. District Judge Martin Feldman in New Orleans today
gave the government an 11-day extension until June 20 to act on
six offshore drilling permit applications that Ensco claims were
unreasonably delayed by regulators. Ensco and the government
asked for the delay in a joint filing on May 20.  “The parties have been engaged in settlement negotiations
that would resolve Ensco Offshore Company’s remaining claims in
this case without further litigation,” according to the May 20
filing. “The parties have made significant progress but have
not yet reached a final settlement. The parties believe that
further negotiations may enable the parties to reach a mutually
agreeable resolution.”  Both sides said an 11-day temporary delay of the judge’s
May 10 order would “prevent further unnecessary litigation.”
If they can’t reach a settlement by June 20, they may seek to
extend the stay to continue talks, according to the filing.  On May 10, Feldman, ruling on one of six issues in the
protracted suit, agreed with Ensco arguments that the London-
based company’s applications to the U.S. Interior Department had
been “unreasonably delayed” and he ordered the government to
act within 30 days on six deepwater drilling permit requests.  Safety, Spill Response  The Interior Department opposed Ensco’s suit, saying that a
delay in issuing new permits was needed to give the industry
time to boost safety and spill-response capabilities after the
Deepwater Horizon drilling rig off the  Louisiana  coast exploded
in April 20, 2010. The blast and spill released 4.1 million
barrels of crude from  BP Plc (BP/) ’s Macondo well.  President  Barack Obama  temporarily halted all drilling in
waters deeper than 500 feet in May 2010. Feldman threw out the
ban as overly broad and punitive to the Gulf Coast economy. The
government imposed a similar, second ban that was withdrawn in
October. In February, Feldman found the Obama administration in
contempt for continuing to stall the resumption of deep-water
drilling through what he called a de-facto ban.  Wyn Hornbuckle, a Justice Department spokesman, declined to
comment on today’s order. Sean O’Neill, an Ensco spokesman,
didn’t immediately return a call and e-mail seeking comment.  The case is Ensco Offshore Co. v. Salazar, 2:10-cv-01941,
U.S. District Court, Eastern District of Louisiana ( New
Orleans ).  To contact the reporters on this story:
Allen Johnson Jr. in New Orleans at 
 allenmct@gmail.com ;
Laurel Brubaker Calkins in Houston at 
 laurel@calkins.us.com   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Michael Hytha at   mhytha@bloomberg.net  