-- 
Mercedes Peps Up Its Small Cars to Catch Audi

-- B y   C h r i s   R e i t e r
-- 
2011-05-22T22:01:43Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/mercedes-sees-market-share-driven-by-s-class.html
Daimler AG (DAI) ’s Mercedes-Benz, overtaken
by  Volkswagen AG (VOW) ’s Audi in the luxury-car industry this year, is
pepping up its lineup of small cars with cameras, radars and Web
access to give younger buyers the feel of the S-Class flagship.  The B-Class and three other new compacts underpin
Mercedes’s target of boosting deliveries to more than 1.5
million vehicles by 2015 from 1.3 million this year. The
automaker is building an 800 million-euro ($1.1 billion) factory
in  Hungary  and investing 600 million euros to upgrade a plant in
Germany to expand production of the models.  Daimler Chief Executive Officer Dieter Zetsche needs to
widen the appeal of Mercedes smaller cars to regain market share
from Audi and industry leader  Bayerische Motoren Werke AG. (BMW) 
Mercedes is replacing the boxy A-Class with a sporty hatchback
and is considering a small coupe and sport-utility vehicle.  “Mercedes’s small cars haven’t been much of a success up
to now,” said  Stefan Bratzel , director of the Center of
Automotive Management at the University of Applied Sciences in
 Bergisch Gladbach , Germany. “There needs to be an improvement,
because compact vehicles are becoming increasingly important for
high-end carmakers.”  The average Mercedes buyer in the U.S. is 54, four years
older than BMW and six years older than Audi, according to San
Diego-based market research firm  Strategic Vision . By attracting
younger buyers, carmakers aim to develop brand loyalty early and
have customers trade up to their more expensive models later.  The decline in Mercedes’s market share is reflected in
Daimler’s share price. The stock has gained 29 percent over the
past 12 months, lagging the 72 percent jump in Volkswagen’s
preferred stock and a 69 percent advance for BMW.  B-Class Gadgets  The redesigned B-Class will be available with safety and
entertainment gadgets, such as a radar-controlled collision
prevention system and in-car Internet, when it goes on sale this
year, said Hans Engel, the model’s chief engineer. It will also
use the C-Class’s more robust engine instead of the less
powerful four-cylinder motor in the current version.  “You will immediately know that these cars are from
Mercedes,” Engel said during a test ride of a cloaked B-Class
prototype near Daimler’s headquarters in Stuttgart,  Germany .
“They will have lots of technology that wasn’t available in
this segment before.”  Equipping the new models with technology from cars like the
$91,000 S-Class will add prestige to the compacts as well as cut
costs for Daimler, Bratzel said. Mercedes had the lowest profit
margin of the top three luxury-car makers in the first quarter.
Mercedes’s earnings before interest and taxes were 9.3 percent
of sales, compared to Audi’s 10.6 percent and Bayerische Motoren
Werke AG’s 11.9 percent.  Moose Test  Mercedes’s efforts to sell small cars got off to a rough
start in 1997 when the A-Class flipped over during the so-called
moose test, a maneuver that assesses a car’s stability when
avoiding unexpected obstacles such as wandering animals. The
failure prompted a design fix and sullied the automaker’s
reputation. The new B-Class has passed this test, said spokesman
Christoph Horn.  “The past history of compact cars hasn’t done Mercedes any
favors,” said Bratzel. “The cars were supposed to be elevated
by their association with models like the E-Class, but instead
they dragged down the overall reputation.”  Competition for high-end small cars is increasing because
of environmental pressure and growing demand for vehicles built
for crowded cities. Audi introduced the A1 subcompact last year
and will start selling the Q3 compact SUV in June. BMW, the
luxury-car leader, is developing a line of front-wheel drive
models and will introduce an electric-powered city car in 2013.
Even super luxury nameplate Aston Martin is getting in on the
act with the Cygnet urban cruiser, which rolls out this year.  The B-Class starts at 24,300 euros, compared with 22,200
euros for the BMW 1-Series and 20,950 euros for the Audi A3.  Younger Families  Mercedes hopes to win over young families to the B-Class
with sportier styling and a more luxurious interior, Anders Sundt Jensen, head of brand communication at Mercedes, said this
month. The revamped vehicle is also meant to retain current
drivers of the A- and B-Class with its van-like proportions and
elevated seating position, Jensen said.  The two models, which have appealed mainly to older
drivers, accounted for 19 percent of the brand’s sales of 1.18
million vehicles last year, down from 23 percent in 2009.
Mercedes sold 222,400 of the two in 2010, compared to 196,000
deliveries of BMW’s 1-Series and 232,200 for Audi’s A1 and A3.  The current B-Class, available in  Europe ,  China  and  Canada ,
is not sold in the U.S. The new compact models have been
designed with all global markets in mind, said Jensen, who
declined to specify which vehicles will be offered to Americans.  “They will be pure Mercedes and have their own unique
characters,” Jensen said. “We’re sending the clear message
that we want to shake up this segment.”  To contact the reporters on this story:
Chris Reiter in Berlin at 
 creiter2@bloomberg.net .  To contact the editors responsible for this story:
 Chad Thomas  at   cthomas16@bloomberg.net ; 