-- 
Mexico Plans to Recommend Carstens as Candidate for IMF Managing Director

-- B y   A n d r e s   R .   M a r t i n e z   a n d   J o n a t h a n   R o e d e r
-- 
2011-05-22T20:22:11Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/mexico-seeks-top-imf-post-by-presenting-central-banker-carstens-for-job.html
Mexico central bank Governor Agustin Carstens will be presented as a candidate for managing director
of the  International Monetary Fund , the  Finance Ministry  said in
an e-mailed statement today.  The process to choose a new leader at the IMF should be
“open, transparent and based on merit,” the ministry said.
Finance Minister  Ernesto Cordero  will present Carstens’
candidacy, the statement said. The government will likely
nominate Carstens tomorrow, said Ricardo Ochoa, head of
international affairs at the ministry, in a phone interview.  With Carsten’s nomination, Mexico joined Australia,  China 
and other nations in calling for the new managing director of
the lender to be chosen because of merit and not the convention
that the position should go only to Europeans. Australian
Treasurer Wayne Swan said May 22 the position shouldn’t be
“limited” to any one nation or continent.  The Washington-based fund plans to complete its search for
a managing director by June 30 to replace Dominque Strauss-Kahn
who was indicted May 19 in  New York  on charges including
attempted rape. Carstens served as deputy managing director of
the fund from 2003 to 2006.  Carstens became central bank governor in January 2010 after
 Guillermo Ortiz  stepped down. Carstens, who has a doctorate in
economics from the University of Chicago, served as finance
minister starting in 2006, where he led the nation’s response to
the global financial crisis. Mexico was the first nation to
request a flexible credit line from the IMF, a mechanism to help
support economies seeking strong macroeconomic policies.  Voting Power  Mexico leads a group of eight countries with 117,045 votes,
or 4.66 percent of the total IMF voting power, according to the
multilateral lender’s website. The group is the seventh largest,
measured by voting power, behind the U.S.,  Japan ,  Germany ,
France, the U.K. and 10 nations led by Belgium.  Carstens, a Chicago Cubs baseball fan, led Mexico’s
response to the global financial crisis as finance minister
since 2006. As chief economist for the central bank from 1994 to
1999, he co-wrote a paper in which he pushed for market
participants to have broader access to central bank data. Under
Carstens, the central bank published the minutes of policy
meetings for the first time this year.  Flexible Credit  The IMF renewed and boosted Mexico’s flexible  credit line 
to $72 billion in January, replacing the one-year $48 billion
facility. Mexico first sought the line in 2009 to bolster
confidence in the economy, which contracted the most since 1995
that year. Colombia and Poland were the only other two nations
to enter similar agreements with the IMF, which the lender said
were reserved for nations with strong economic policies.  The economy grew 5.5 percent last year, the fastest growth
in 10 years, and may expand as much as 5 percent this year,
Carstens said on May 11. Policy makers boosted their forecast
for growth this year without changing their forecast for
inflation of 3 percent to 4 percent. Annual inflation slowed to
3.36 in April, near the 5-year low set in March and half that of
 Brazil . The central bank has a target of 3 percent inflation.  Mexico  has been buying as much as $600 million dollars
monthly through dollar options since March 2010, boosting
foreign reserves rose to a record $125.8 billion this year,
according to the central bank.  To contact the reporter on this story:
Jonathan Roeder in Mexico City at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Jonathan Roeder at 
 jroeder@bloomberg.net  