-- 
Expansion’s Steepest U.S. Yield Gap Prevails Forward Rates Show

-- B y   L i z   C a p o   M c C o r m i c k
-- 
2011-05-23T17:31:25Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/expansion-s-steepest-u-s-yield-gap-prevails-as-forward-rates-buoy-stocks.html
The gap between longer-term U.S.
government bond yields and shorter maturities is the steepest
ever during this point of an economic recovery, a sign the
 Federal Reserve  will be in no rush to reverse record monetary
stimulus when it stops buying Treasuries next month.  The difference in yields between 2- and 5-year maturities
as well as 2- and 10-year debt both now and projected for three-
and six-months in the future are above the averages in instances
when the Fed held interest rates steady, manufacturing was
expanding and inflation less than 2 percent. That’s according to
an analysis of interest-rate swaps by Deutsche Bank AG, one of
the 20 primary dealers of  U.S. debt  that trade with the Fed.  Fed Bank of New York President William C. Dudley indicated
last week that keeping borrowing costs low and the so-called
yield curve steep should help the recovery after higher energy
prices last quarter curbed consumers spending and growth. The
difference between short- and longer-term rates may buttress
equities and support banks, which profit by borrowing at Fed
rates near zero and lending at higher rates.  “The things that would make investors worry about bonds,
like commodity prices and economic growth, are all going down,”
said  Jeffrey Gundlach , the founder of DoubleLine Capital LP in
 Los Angeles , which has $11 billion in assets under management.
“The basic setup now is one of subpar economic growth and,
absent of government support, you should have low bond yields,
very low bond yields,” he said. “The yield curve is clearly
grounded with the Fed at zero percent  interest rates .”  Forward Market  The difference between the rate on a two-year interest rate
swap, which is the exchange of fixed for floating payments, and
that on a 10-year maturity is 2.50 percentage points, compared
with an average of 1.11 percentage points when the central bank
was on hold, according to Deutsche Bank data.  Between two- and five-year swap rates, the gap is 1.29
percentage points, or 129 basis points. In the forward market,
where investors agree to lock in rates at a pre-set time in the
future, the spread is 130 basis points for three months and 121
basis points in a year, Bloomberg data show.  The average of the spread when the Fed was keeping policy
rates stable was 0.63 percent on a spot basis, 0.60 percent on
three-month forwards and 0.48 percent for one year, said Alex Li, an interest-rate strategist in  New York  at Deutsche Bank.  Bonds Gain  Bonds rallied last week, driving the yield on the benchmark
10-year note to as low as 3.09 percent, the least since
December, from 3.61 percent at the start of this quarter as data
ranging from housing to manufacturing fell below forecasts.  Ten-year yields fell three basis points to 3.11 percent at
1:28 p.m. in  London , according to Bloomberg Bond Trader prices.
The 3.125 percent note maturing in May 2021 gained 9/32, or
$2.81 per $1,000 face amount, to 100 3/32.  U.S. government securities have returned 0.93 percent in
May, including reinvested interest, following a 1.15 percent
gain in April, Bank of America Merrill Lynch data show.  At 2.60 percentage points, the U.S. Treasury yield curve is
the steepest among the Group of Seven nations and just below the
record of 2.94 between two- and 10-year notes reached in
February 2010. The difference is 0.92 percentage point in Japan,
1.29 in the  euro zone , 1.54 in Canada and 2.37 in the U.K.  While “the yield curve will eventually flatten,” it won’t
do so anytime soon because the Fed will only start raising rates
next year, Christine Hurtsellers, chief investment officer for
fixed-income and proprietary investments in Atlanta at ING
Investment Management, which oversees $518 billion, said in an
interview last week.  Treasury Purchases  The  Federal Open Market Committee  kept its target rate at
zero to 0.25 percent at its April 26-27 meeting. It was dropped
to the record low range in December 2008.  A majority of the panel preferred to sell the Fed’s more
than $2 trillion is securities bought since November 2008 to
stimulate growth after raising short-term rates, and most wanted
to put asset sales on a preannounced schedule while using rate
increases as an “active tool,” minutes from the meeting
released May 18 showed. Almost all policy makers agreed the
“first step toward normalization” of monetary policy should be
ceasing reinvestment of principal payments on mortgage debt that
began in August.  Purchases End  The Fed reiterated it will finish purchasing $600 billion
of Treasuries in June even as it cut its range of estimates for
growth this year to 3.1 percent to 3.3 percent, from the 3.4
percent to 3.9 percent range forecast in January.  When the Fed reaffirmed its low interest-rate pledge on
April 27, crude oil was trading at $112.76, about the highest
price since 2008. Crude has since dropped to $98.65 a barrel.  The decline may help validate the Fed’s judgment that
quicker inflation from a rise in commodity prices earlier this
year will be “transitory,” reducing the need for higher rates.  Policy makers also said after the meeting last month the
preferred gauge of inflation, the personal consumption
expenditures price index minus food and energy, will rise by 1.3
percent to 1.6 percent this year, within its preferred range of
2 percent or a bit lower.  “We are noticing that the  U.S. economy , despite all the
stimulus that has been provided, is sort of muddling along,”
 Priya Misra , head of U.S. rates strategy at primary dealer Bank
of America Merrill Lynch in New York, said in a May 17
“Bloomberg Surveillance” television interview. “Just because
the Fed is ending QE2 doesn’t mean that rates have to go up,”
she said in reference to the Fed’s second round of bond
purchases known as quantitative easing.  Good for Stocks  Low short-term rates are generally good for stocks because
they indicate the Fed wants to stimulate the economy. The
 Standard & Poor’s  500 index has risen 48 percent since the end
of 2008, a period when the spread between two- and 10-year
Treasury yields expanded from about 1.25 percentage points.  Fed Chairman  Ben S. Bernanke  has suggested he’ll maintain
record stimulus until job growth accelerates and the recovery is
robust enough to withstand tighter credit.  The Labor Department said this month the economy added
268,000 non-government jobs in April, the best month for the
private sector of the economy since 2006. The  unemployment rate 
has been about 9 percent or higher for 25 months.  Banks Benefit  U.S. banks have benefited from the Fed’s monetary stimulus
as record low costs of funding mortgages and other assets
widened net interest margins -- the difference between what they
pay to borrow money and what they charge for loans and the
returns they get on securities.  The industry’s average cost of funding mortgages and other
interest-earning assets fell to 0.86 percent in the fourth
quarter of 2010, from 3.58 percent in the third quarter of 2007,
according to the  Federal Deposit Insurance Corp.   Federal fund futures on the CME Group Inc. exchange show a
13 percent chance policy makers will increase the target rate
for overnight lending between banks by at least a quarter-
percentage point by December, compared with 24.6 percent odds a
month ago.  “Some of the inflation data and the remarks from Fed
officials about inflation not being a problem has kept the curve
where it is,” said  Chris Rupkey , chief financial economist at
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ Ltd. in New York. “There is a lot
of uncertainty with the labor market so the Fed doesn’t want to
take its foot off the gas yet.”  To contact the reporter on this story:
Liz Capo McCormick in New York at 
 emccormick7@bloomberg.net   To contact the editor responsible for this story:
Dave Liedtka at   dliedtka@bloomberg.net  