-- 
Pakistan Commandos Remove Taliban Guerrillas From Karachi Naval Air Base

-- B y   K h u r r u m   A n i s   a n d   F a r h a n   S h a r i f
-- 
2011-05-23T12:01:29Z

-- http://www.bloomberg.com/news/2011-05-22/explosions-firefights-erupt-at-pakistani-naval-aviation-base-under-attack.html
Pakistani commandos ended a Taliban
siege of a navy base in the country’s largest city after a 16-
hour battle that the militants said was in part to avenge the
killing of al-Qaeda leader Osama  bin Laden .  Ten members of Pakistan’s security forces were killed along
with four guerrillas, Interior Minister Rehman Malik told
reporters in Karachi. The “terrorists were 20-22 years of age
and wore Western clothes with suicide jackets beneath them,”
Malik said. They were armed with rocket launchers and grenades,
he said.  Pakistani Taliban had pledged to attack government and
military installations after U.S. forces killed al-Qaeda leader
bin Laden in a raid in Abbottabad, 30 miles (50 kilometers)
north of Islamabad, on May 2. The American raid exacerbated
tensions between the two countries, as the U.S. questioned
whether Pakistani officials had protected bin Laden and Pakistan
protested the violation of its territory.  The insurgents in Karachi damaged surveillance aircraft
provided by the U.S. in the biggest strike against a leading
Pakistani military installation since guerrillas attacked the
army’s Rawalpindi headquarters in October 2009.  “This attack shows that the Taliban have sympathizers and
insiders in the security establishment,” said  Talat Masood , a
retired army lieutenant general and security analyst in
Islamabad. “This also shows that they have become more powerful
and sophisticated in their planning and attacks.”  Americans, Chinese  Six Americans, involved in training Pakistani forces, and
11 Chinese nationals were inside the base at the time of the
attack, Malik said today. He said four militants had launched
the raid, a far smaller number than claimed by the Taliban.  “Fifteen of our fighters entered the naval air base and we
don’t expect them to return,” Ehsanullah Ehsan, a spokesman for
the Tehreek-e-Taliban Pakistan, said earlier by telephone from
an undisclosed location. “They are there to kill. Our issue
with  Pakistan  is its secular policies and friendship with
America.”  Last night’s attack began with several explosions at the
Mehran naval base around 11 p.m., followed by gunfire. Malik
said that militants had entered from the back of the base by
cutting through wires, before carrying out the attack like
“movie stars.”  Two P-3C Orions, a maritime surveillance aircraft, were
targeted and damaged in the attack, Haq said. The U.S. handed
over the aircraft to the Pakistan navy in April 2010 and said it
will give a total of eight by 2012, according to the U.S.
Central Command  website .  Surveillance Role  The Taliban may have hit the navy station for its role in
helping conduct surveillance against movements by militant
groups along Pakistan’s coast, said Bahukutumbi Raman, an Indian
security analyst and retired counter-terrorism chief of  India ’s
main intelligence agency.  Pakistan’s naval air unit, including the U.S.-supplied
Orion aircraft, has been providing “air surveillance to prevent
any sea-borne intrusions of al-Qaeda and to detect any terrorist
plans for attacks on ships bringing supplies for the NATO forces
in  Afghanistan ,” Raman wrote in an e-mailed analysis.  Trucks carrying soldiers entered the base soon after the
attack began. Flames and black smoke rose into the air and
dozens of ambulances waited outside the base.  Tensions between the U.S. and Pakistan have escalated with
American officials saying they were worried that Pakistan’s
intelligence agency maintains ties to guerrillas fighting
American-led forces in Afghanistan. The U.S. military says its
war against the Taliban is hindered by Pakistan’s failure to
shut down militant havens.  Drone Attacks  Also straining relations is Pakistan’s opposition to U.S.
drone attacks on Taliban targets that have killed civilians and
American insistence that the strikes continue.  Pakistan’s leaders have rejected accusations they are not
doing enough to defeat insurgents. The army’s offensives against
the local  Taliban movement  and allied guerrillas have triggered
retaliatory bombings and gun battles in cities nationwide that
the government says have killed thousands of Pakistani citizens
and security personnel.  Twin bombings on May 13 at a Pakistani paramilitary police
academy killed 80 people in what the Pakistan Taliban said was
in part revenge for the killing of bin Laden and a precursor to
attacks against the U.S.  The PNS Mehran Base is 10 kilometers from Karachi’s Quaid-
e-Azam International Airport. It provides all the logistic and
administrative support to the aviation unit of the Pakistan
navy, according to the navy’s  website .  On Oct. 10, 2009, the Pakistani military freed 39 hostages
after soldiers stormed a building in the army’s Rawalpindi
headquarters, ending a 22-hour siege by militants.  Yesterday’s attack comes less than a month after militants
attacked navy buses in Karachi, killing four people and injuring
56. Two days later, four navy personnel and one civilian were
killed in a bomb attack on a navy bus in the financial capital.  To contact the reporters on this story:
Khurrum Anis in Karachi News at 
 kkhan14@bloomberg.net ;
Farhan Sharif in Karachi, Pakistan at 
 Fsharif2@bloomberg.net   To contact the editors responsible for this story:
Naween Mangi at 
 nmangi1@bloomberg.net 
Peter Hirschberg at 
 phirschberg@bloomberg.net  